source: packet.pdf
sha256: 2b737619d7cd0b80f75c05a1b8a19c2f83334a4d6900c13580fc8d6bba3c4cc5
pages: 763
ocr_pages: 93
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
June 5, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
 
AMENDED AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: June 5, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 843 0477 0493      Passcode: 374106
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
Amendment: Item Number 26 was moved from New Business to Consent Calendar. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Immigrant Heritage Month – Proclamation
2.
Pride Month – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of May 15, 2023.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
4.
City Council 2023 Regular Meeting Calendar Update – Adoption
Adopt the updated City Council regular meeting schedule to re-establish the regular City Council meeting
originally scheduled for October 2, 2023.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
1 of 763

--- page 2 ---
5.
Senior Transportation "Get Around" Program – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City Inc. for the Senior Transportation “Get Around”
program up to the amount of $150,000 for fiscal year 2023-24, with an option for the City to extend the
agreement for fiscal year 2024-2025 for up to $150,000 for a potential contract total of $300,000; and authorize
the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
6.
Summer Camp Bus Transportation – Agreement
Approve an agreement with First Student, Inc. to provide bus transportation services for City of San Mateo
summer camps from June 12, 2023 through August 11, 2023 for a contract amount of $118,272; establish a
contingency reserve of 10%; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
7.
Fiscal Year 2023-24 General Obligation Bond – Tax Rate Levy
Adopt a Resolution to levy the property tax rate of $0.0057 per $100 of assessed value, equating to $5.70 per
$100,000 assessed value), for the voter-approved General Obligation Bond annual debt service payment.
CEQA: This GO Bond Tax Rate Levy is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
8.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Sodium Bisulfite – Change Order
Approve Contract Change Order No. 1 with Univar Solutions USA, Inc., to increase the supply of sodium bisulfite
by 20,000 gallons, for an amount not to exceed $32,340, for a total agreement amount of $355,734; and
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change order in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This Contract Change Order No. 1 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
9.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Sodium Hypochlorite – Change Order
Approve Contract Change Order No. 1 with Univar USA, Inc., to increase the supply of sodium hypochlorite by
20,000 gallons for an amount not to exceed $32,704, for a total agreement amount of $523,254; and authorize
the Public Works Director to execute the change order in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This Contract Change Order #1 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
10.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Chemicals – Contracts
Award chemical supply contracts to: 1) Hasa, Inc. to supply sodium hypochlorite in the amount of $957,027; 2)
Univar Solutions USA, Inc. to supply sodium bisulfite in the amount of $404,517; and 3) Kemira Water Solutions,
Inc. for the supply of ferric chloride in the amount of $312,212; establish 10% contingency reserves for each
contract; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contracts in substantially the form presented
2 of 763

--- page 3 ---
and issue change orders within the contingency amounts.
CEQA: This contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
11.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Liquid Emulsion Polymer – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a contract to SNF Polydyne for the
supply of liquid emulsion polymer in the amount of $405,613; establish a 10% contingency reserve; and authorize
the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders
within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
12.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Immediate Action Projects, Package III – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 5 to the professional services agreement with HDR Engineering, Inc. to provide
engineering services during construction for the Wastewater Treatment Plant Immediate Action Projects Package
III Project and increase the budget by $422,000, for a total amount not to exceed $1,521,495; increase the
contingency reserve by an amount of $42,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the
amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). Council on June 6, 2016, certified the PEIR. In
accordance with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for the
implementation of the Clean Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on
July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project
evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum.
13.
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project – Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to authorize an appropriation in the amount of $93,948 of Measure A funds to the Hillsdale
Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure project; amend the agreement with Bellecci & Associates, Inc. for the
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure project to increase the agreement amount by $93,948 for a
new total not to exceed $246,948; increase the contingency amount by $88,255 for new contingency total of
$98,255; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented
and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)/span>
14.
California Transportation Commission Local Streets and Roads – Project List Fiscal Year 2023-24
Adopt a Resolution to submit a list of projects proposed to be funded with the Road Repair and Rehabilitation
Account, Senate Bill 1 funding, to the California Transportation Commission for fiscal year 2023-24.
CEQA: This action to adopt a resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
3 of 763

--- page 4 ---
15.
On-Call Professional Consultant Services – Amendments
Approve Amendment No. 2 to extend the term of individual on-call professional consultant services agreements
for no additional cost with Wilsey Ham, HDR Engineering, Inc., and Bellecci & Associates until December 31,
2025; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute future no-cost amendments.
CEQA: This approval of no-cost agreements extensions is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
16.
Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 4 – Agreement and Budget Transfer
Adopt a Resolution to authorize a budget transfer from Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 1 to Citywide
Street Reconstruction Package 3 in the amount of $410,000; affirm a requested bid relief from Ghilotti Bros, Inc.;
approve an agreement with McGuire and Hester for the Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 4 Project in the
amount of $6,259,358; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $630,000; and authorize the Public
Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the
contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
17.
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 5B – Agreement
Approve an agreement with MNS Engineers, Inc. for design services in an amount not to exceed $585,000;
establish a contingency reserve of $58,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented and approve amendments within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
18.
Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement Project Pacific Gas & Electric – Grant of Easement
Adopt a Resolution to grant an Easement Deed to Pacific Gas & Electric and authorize the City Manager to
execute the Easement Deed.
CEQA: The proposed activity is exempt from CEQA, because it involves granting an easement for the installation of
a new small structure, namely an underground PG&E vault. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15303.)
19.
State of California Department of Transportation Delegated Maintenance Agreement – Amendment
Adopt a Resolution approving Amendment No. 4 to the Delegated Maintenance Agreement with the State of
California Department of Transportation for maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo to reduce
the scope of the City’s maintenance responsibilities within Caltrans’s right-of-way along State Route 92 and
authorize the City Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This action of approving Amendment No. 4 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational
or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
4 of 763

--- page 5 ---
20.
Fleet Maintenance Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 5 to extend the agreement with First Vehicles Services, Inc. for year four (4) of five (5)
optional one-year extensions for fleet maintenance services in the amount of $898,343 for a new agreement
total of $6,963,517.81; include $200,000 for additional compensation for services that exceed the base level
established in the agreement; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $100,000; and authorize the
Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change orders
within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This Amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
21.
Workers' Compensation Program Third Party Administration – Agreement
Award an agreement to LWP Claims Solutions, Inc. for third party administration of the City's self-insured
workers' compensation program for a three-year term in the amount of $740,907 with an option to extend it for
additional two years in the amount of $530,194 (for a total amount of $1,271,101), and authorize the Human
Resources Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This project is exempt from CEQA requirements in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no
possibility that the activity in question may have a significant effect on the environment per Guidelines Section
15061(b)(3).
22.
California State Library Parks Pass Grant – Budget Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $44,634 for a grant
awarded by the California State Library to the San Mateo Public Library to support the State Parks Are For
Everyone! program.
CEQA: This activity is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
23.
California Library Literacy Services – Budget Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $55,092 for a grant
awarded by the California State Library to the San Mateo Public Library to support the Project Read Literacy
Program.
CEQA: This activity is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
24.
Minimum Wage Enforcement Services – Notice to Extend Agreement
Approve a notice to extend the agreement with City of San Jose's Office of Equality Assurance for minimum wage
ordinance enforcement services in the amount of $30,000 and authorize the City Manager to execute the notice
in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This notice option to extend the agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government
fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
5 of 763

--- page 6 ---
25.
San Francisco Peninsula Tourism Marketing District (SFPTMD) Formation – Approval
Adopt a Resolution granting consent to the City of Burlingame to form the San Francisco Peninsula Tourism
Marketing District (SFPTMD) and include the City of San Mateo within the boundaries of the district.
CEQA: This resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
26.
Interim City Manager – Appointment
Adopt a Resolution to approve the appointment of Christina Horrisberger as the Interim City Manager.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
27.
Letter of Apology – Council Approval
Review and approve a letter of apology to four members of the community for impacts related to the selection of
the Mayor and the appointment of the fifth Councilmember in December 2022.
CEQA: This letter is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
28.
100 N. Humboldt St. Property Owner Appeal – Statement of Decision
Adopt a Statement of Decision granting the property owner’s appeal related to permanent relocation benefits to
a tenant household who resided at 100 N. Humboldt Street.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made.
Judicial review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date
the decision is made.
 
29.
Sewer Rate Increase for Fiscal Years 2023-24 to 2027-28 – Ordinance Introduction
Conduct a public hearing, and if there is a determination that a majority protest does not exist, introduce an
ordinance to establish maximum sewer rates effective August 1, 2023 through June 30, 2028 pursuant to San
Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.54.030 “Sewer Service Charges.”
CEQA: In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4), the adoption of this ordinance is not a project
subject to CEQA, because the sewer service charge is a funding mechanism for the City Sewer operations and
capital projects.
6 of 763

--- page 7 ---
30.
Proposed 2023-24 Budget and 2023-28 Capital Improvement Program – Review
Review the proposed 2023-24 budget and the 2023-28 capital improvement program and conduct a public
hearing prior to the scheduled adoption at the June 20, 2023 City Council meeting.
CEQA: This proposed 2023-24 budget is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant
physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
OLD BUSINESS
31.
2023-2031 Housing Element Study Session
Provide direction to staff on options to update the City’s 2023-2031 Housing Element in response to the
California Department of Housing and Community Development’s (HCD’s) second review letter dated March 27,
2023.
CEQA: This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not
cause a physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 21065).
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the Council’s consideration of this item. Following the meeting a report of
action from Closed Session will be provided if required.
 
32.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6) – City Manager Compensation
City designated representative: Mayor Amourence Lee
Unrepresented Employee: City Manager
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
7 of 763

--- page 8 ---
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
8 of 763

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1111
File ID: 23-7593
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of May 15, 2023.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes 2023-05-15 Special
Att 2 - Minutes 2023-05-15 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
9 of 763

--- page 10 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 5/15/2023
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
May 15, 2023
City Hall Council Chambers 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 5:30 p.m. 
Roll Call
Present:
Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Council Members: Loraine and Newsom
Absent:
Mayor Lee
STUDY SESSION
1.
4th and Railroad Parking Lot – Bespoke Development Term Sheet
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager, provided a presentation on the proposed Term Sheet for the public-
private partnership Bespoke development project, which includes the City-owned parking lot at 4th and Railroad 
Avenue. Developers Carlos Castellanos, Alta Housing, Vice President, Real Estate Development, and Preston 
O’Connell, Harvest Properties, Partner, said a few words about their companies and answered questions.
Council asked questions of staff.
Public Comment - Linda Lam, Self-Help for the Elderly Volunteer, requested that Council allow space in the new 
building for Self-Help; Thomas Morgan suggested using the loan could be used as equity for the entire project and 
incentivize the developers to work more quickly on the housing.
Council by consensus confirmed the current financial terms and supported the project.
2.
Downtown – Public Restroom
Evan Albert, Deputy Director of Public Works, provided a presentation to consider and outline the options for the 
opening of a public restroom in Downtown.
Public Comment – Lew Cohen, Downtown San Mateo, stated it is a public right, basic human right, to offer a public 
bathroom and it should be in a central location. Erica Wood, President and CEO of Chamber of Commerce, stated 
public restrooms support local businesses too, allows seniors and families to spend more time downtown.
Council discussion ensued. Consensus was in support of opening a public restroom at the transit center and then 
to do a study session in one year’s time to consider other alternatives or ideas and include input from CalTrain.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 6:46 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Amourence Lee, Mayor                      
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
10 of 763

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 5/15/2023
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
May 15, 2023
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:00 p.m.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present:
Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Council Members: Hedges, Loraine and Newsom
Absent:
Mayor Lee
CEREMONIAL
1.
Jewish American Heritage Month – Proclamation - Rebecca Goodman, Director of Jewish Community Engagement 
– Jewish Community Relations Council (JCRC) Bay Area, received the proclamation
2.
Asian Pacific Islander Heritage Month – Proclamation - Will be shared with our Asian Pacific Islander Partners
3.
Mental Health Month – Proclamation - Will be shared with San Mateo County Health Behavioral Health and 
Recovery Services
4.
National Public Works Week – Proclamation - Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works, received the proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 5 through 13, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:
Hedges, Seconded: Newsom
Ayes: 
Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
5.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the special and regular meetings of May 1, 2023.
6.
Senior Catered Lunch Services Program – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Corporate Cuisine, Inc. DBA Creekside Grill for senior catered lunch services 
for a three-year initial term, with an option to extend for two additional years, not to exceed $150,000 
per fiscal year, for a total contract amount of up to $750,000 over five years.
7.
Columbia Drive and Crystal Springs Storm Drain Improvements – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Freyer & Laureta, Inc. for professional design services in the amount of 
$108,400; establish a contingency reserve of $11,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
11 of 763

--- page 12 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 5/15/2023
Page 2
8.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Immediate Action Projects, Package III – Appropriation and Construction 
Agreement
Adopt a Resolution appropriating $8,574,000 from Fund 72 Reserves to the Wastewater Treatment 
Plant (WWTP) Immediate Action Projects, Package III (IAP III) project; award an agreement to Mountain 
Cascade, Inc. for construction of the IAP III Project in an amount not to exceed $11,344,696; establish a 
contingency fund in an amount not to exceed $2,270,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 47 (2023)
9.
Renewable Diesel Fuel Procurement and Delivery Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 4 to exercise a third, one-year extension to the agreement with Bosco Oil, Inc. 
dba Valley Oil Company for procurement and delivery of red and clear renewable diesel, and increase 
the amount of the extension from $150,000 to $300,000 for a new agreement total of $1,125,000; 
establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $75,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
10.
Gasoline Fuel Procurement and Delivery Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 4 to exercise a third, one-year extension to the agreement with Pinnacle 
Petroleum, Inc. for gasoline fuel procurement and delivery, and increase the amount of the extension 
from $250,000 to $500,000 for a new total agreement of $1,875,000; establish a contingency reserve in 
the amount of $100,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
11.
Downtown Cleaning Service – Agreement
Approve an agreement for commercial district cleaning services with Frank & Grossman Landscape 
Contractors, Inc. for a term of two years, in an amount not to exceed $500,000 per year, with up to two, 
1-year extensions at $500,000 per year, for a total not-to-exceed agreement amount of $2,000,000; and 
authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and 
execute any amendments within the agreement amount.
12.
Merit Employees’ Salary Schedules – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to authorize and approve the City of San Mateo Merit Employees’ current pay rates 
and ranges (salary schedule).
Enactment:  Resolution No. 48 (2023)
13.
San Mateo County Economic Development Association Event – Consideration of City Sponsorship
Consider a $1,250 City contribution to the 70th Anniversary Celebration of the San Mateo County 
Economic Development Association.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There were no speakers.
12 of 763

--- page 13 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 5/15/2023
Page 3
OLD BUSINESS
14.
Pedestrian Mall – Boundary Determination
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager, provided a presentation on whether to bring forward a revision to the 
boundaries of the pedestrian mall in order to reopen for traffic the block of B Street between First and Second 
Avenues and whether to allow for parklet platforms within the pedestrian mall. Council asked questions of staff.
Public Comment – Kevin Simpson stated concern that other temporary measures could be used to make the mall 
function better, noting it takes time, persistence and imagination. Jonathan New stated not to make policy 
decisions on restaurants that may not be here that long, make the decisions based on residents who live here. 
David Hunt stated keep the streets closed to cars. Hamdi Uger, Porterhouse, expressed there is no attractive 
atmosphere, and a vision is needed to make upscale street for pedestrian use. Seema Patel commented on the 
businesses on 1st and 2nd avenues and stated lack of infrastructure is the problem equaling lack of vibrancy. 
Tanner Walters advocated to keep the pedestrian mall on both streets and keep the conversation going because 
businesses seem split. Tyson Mao, Wursthall Restaurant, spoke of the difficulty by no longer having outdoor 
dining. City and local businesses should collaborate and he supports the pedestrian mall idea. Rick Ballard advises 
to keep B Street closed and to plan for the future, not the past. Sarah Fields stated a desire to keep the section of 
B Street closed for pedestrians. Sean Lacson stated he wants to keep streets closed to cars. Michael stated B Street 
is not a pedestrian mall; it is a blocked off street and nothing more it needs to go upscale. Pam Rittelmeyer voiced 
that it was safer without cars on the street and it is nice and vibrant. Kailun Wu remarked keeping B Street closed 
offers for a better quality of life. Jordan Grimes said the streets are for human beings and noted people’s habits 
have changed since the pandemic with less people in offices so need to shift to new models to attract to area. 
Erica Wood emphasized the need to do everything possible to have vibrant community spaces; working on this 
now is timely, and downtown revitalization is a priority; create experiences that draw people downtown.
Following additional questions to staff, Council provided comments and reached consensus to continue to keep 
both blocks closed; proceed to the next stage of improvements for those blocks; and to allow for parklets on both 
of the blocks. 
Council recessed from 8:57 p.m. to 9:10 p.m.
15
Update and Direction - Flood Relief Fund
Drew Corbett, City Manager, provided an update on the Winter Storm Damage Relief effort and noted the 
remaining funds in the designated fund. Council asked questions of staff. There was no public comment. Council 
approved, by consensus, staff’s recommendation to return the remainder of funds to the General Fund.
NEW BUSINESS
16.
Climate Action Plan – Annual Progress Report
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst, provided a progress report on the implementation of the Climate Action Plan. 
Council asked questions of staff.
Public Comment – Robert Whitehair, SMCAT, expressed congratulations for the workshop held last Tuesday and 
encouraged the City to take more bold action. David Hunt highly recommends efficient e-bikes; and supports 
infrastructure improvements to make this more doable. Mike Swire, SMCAT Citizen’s Advisory Committee, would 
like to see specificity addressing the need to handle transportation and reduce traffic. Michael Weinhauer stated 
the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but that more electric infrastructure is needed.
Council acknowledged the City’s great work that has already been done and noted that there is still more to do. 
Council asked questions regarding a pending court ruling involving the City of Berkeley lawsuit pertaining to the 
banning of new natural gas infrastructure in new developments and requested an update when that is known.
13 of 763

--- page 14 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 5/15/2023
Page 4
17.
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Strategic Framework – Adoption
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst, provided a presentation on the many steps taken to build a framework to 
reach the strategic vision for this effort. Consultant Myra Jolivet was available to answer any questions. Council 
asked questions of staff. Public Comment: There were no speakers.
Council discussion ensued with support for the proposed framework.
Motion to Approve the Citywide Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Strategic Framework, as developed by staff, 
to establish a DEI lens for City operations. Motion passed 4-0.
Moved:
Loraine, Seconded: Newsom
Ayes: 
Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
Council recessed from 10:09 p.m. to 10:15 p.m.
PUBLIC HEARING
18.
100 N Humboldt St. – Property Owner Appeal of Permanent Relocation
Christina Horrisberger, Director of Community Development Department, provided a presentation with Kristin Aiu, 
Code Enforcement Officer, and Linh Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney, assisted with questions. Staff reviewed the 
history of issues with the property, outlined the process and steps taken as per the municipal code. Council asked 
questions of staff.
The Deputy Mayor opened the Public Hearing and invited the Appellant’s Presentation. Attorney Gina Papan spoke 
on behalf of Owner Treyana Pierce. The tenants did not present.
Public Comment – Treyana Pierce asked why did HUD approve the house two years in a row if it was in such poor 
condition. Kiera Aldridge read a letter, commented on placing of tenants’ refrigerators. Marta Zavaler, Tenant, 
refuted the landlord’s statements, the tenants did not cause the issues and noted this was not malicious process 
to get money. Mellie stated she had issues with the tenants living there and supports Treyana. Rick Sakuda stated 
code enforcement came to a conclusion without gathering all the facts and supports Treyana. Angelina Soldatos, 
California Apartment Association, encouraged a process with extreme caution and scrutiny, and the need for a 
clear procedure. Jordan Grimes, One San Mateo, stated this is the condition this ordinance was meant to address. 
Diane Papan stated the eviction was prior to the relocation assessment and opined that the City should not do 
relocation costs prior to communicating with the owner and stated this is not the code the prior council adopted.
Landlord rebuttal – Ms. Papan stated there was no communication with the owner but remediation after the fact 
and noted the mitigation was working. There is no law that requires an owner to inspect, the tenants did not 
notify the owner and the process was not clearly established.
The Deputy Mayor closed the Public Hearing. Council provided comments and discussion continued with 
additional questions of staff on process, due process and if the landlord should have been notified prior to the 
issuing of the relocation payment. Council provided comments on the process that was used. The City Manager 
stated staff followed the correct process as outlined in the City’s Municipal Code. 
Motion to grant the property owner’s appeal contesting the notice to reimburse the City of San Mateo for the 
permanent relocation benefits to the tenants who reside at 100 N. Humboldt St. pursuant to San Mateo Municipal 
Code Chapter 7.50 “Property Owner Obligations with Respect to Tenants Displaced from Unsafe or Substandard 
Units” and direct staff to bring back a written statement of decision at the following meeting. Motion passed 3-1.
Moved:
Hedges, Seconded: Diaz Nash
14 of 763

--- page 15 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 5/15/2023
Page 5
Ayes: 
Diaz Nash, Hedges, and Newsom
Noes: 
Loraine
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. 
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 12:34 p.m. 
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Amourence Lee, Mayor                                           
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
15 of 763

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 23-7576
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
City Council 2023 Regular Meeting Calendar Update – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the updated City Council regular meeting schedule to re-establish the regular City Council meeting originally 
scheduled for October 2, 2023.
BACKGROUND:
On April 3, 2023, the City Council adopted an updated City Council regular meeting schedule in preparation for the City’s 
delegation to Japan to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Sister City relationship between Toyonaka and San Mateo. The 
travel for this event is scheduled between October 1, 2023, and October 9, 2023. The City Clerk’s Office had, prior to the 
April 3, 2023, City Council meeting, received confirmation of interest from Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, and 
Council Member Loraine. Given the three Council Member interest, the regular meeting schedule was updated to cancel 
the October 2, 2023, due to a lack of quorum.   
Since this action was taken, the City Clerk’s Office received confirmation from Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash and Council 
Member Loraine that they were no longer able to participate in the delegation to Toyonaka. While Mayor Lee will continue 
to participate in the delegation, the City Council will be able to make quorum on October 2, 2023 and can re-establish this 
as a regular meeting date. 
Staff plans to bring to City Council three meetings in the month of October on the draft General Plan, including a special 
meeting, to be scheduled at a later date. Re-establishing the October 2, 2023 regular meeting will facilitate this business. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this administrative action
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Updated Calendar 2023 Tracked Changes
16 of 763

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
17 of 763

--- page 18 ---
2023 City Council Calendar of Regular Meetings
All meetings start at 7:00 p.m. and at this time are being held in a hybrid in-person/remote manner. 
This is subject to change at some point in the future.
Day
Date
Notes
Tuesday
January 3, 2023
(moved because of New Year’s Day)
Tuesday
January 17, 2023
(moved because of Martin Luther King Jr. Day)
Monday
February 6, 2023
Tuesday
February 21, 2023
(moved because of Presidents’ Day holiday)
Monday
March 6, 2023
Monday
March 20, 2023
Monday
April 3, 2023
Monday
April 17, 2023
Monday
May 1, 2023
Monday
May 15, 2023
Monday
June 5, 2023
Tuesday
June 20, 2023
(moved because of Juneteenth holiday)
Monday
July 3, 2023
Cancelled – regular holiday schedule
Monday
July 17, 2023
Monday 
August 7, 2023
Cancelled – regular holiday schedule
Monday
August 21, 2023
Tuesday
September 5, 2023
(moved because of Labor Day holiday)
Monday
September 18, 2023
Monday
October 2, 2023
Cancelled – due to three Council Member visit 
to Toyonaka 
Monday
October 16, 2023
Monday
November 6, 2023
Monday
November 20, 2023
Monday
December 4, 2023
Monday
December 18, 2023
Cancelled – regular holiday schedule
18 of 763

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 11-6114
File ID: 23-7424
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Senior Transportation "Get Around" Program – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City Inc. for the Senior Transportation “Get Around” program up to 
the amount of $150,000 for fiscal year 2023-24, with an option for the City to extend the agreement for fiscal year 2024-
2025 for up to $150,000 for a potential contract total of $300,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Senior Transportation “Get Around” program has been facilitated by the Parks and Recreation Department since 
January 1, 2018. Currently there are 1,061 San Mateo seniors signed up for the program. From January 1, 2022-December 
31, 2022, 4,055 one-way rides were provided. On average the “Get Around” program has between 120-130 active riders a 
month. The current transportation vendor, Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City Inc., provides on-demand transportation services 
for qualified City of San Mateo residents aged 60 and over. Each month a rider is eligible for eight one-way trips or four 
round-trips to destinations within the cities of San Mateo, Burlingame, Foster City, Belmont, Hillsborough, San Carlos and 
Redwood City. Additional locations outside of the cities listed include the Veterans' Administration Medical Campus in 
Menlo Park and Palo Alto and Stanford University Medical Centers. All rides must begin or end in the City of San Mateo. 
 
Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City Inc. was selected as the current transportation vendor as they are equipped to service the 
local senior population. Their fleet consists of over 150 cabs, of which approximately 15% are wheelchair and scooter 
accessible. They provide overflow transportation services to the SamTrans "Ready Wheels" program, which requires their 
staff to be trained to handle the needs of passengers with disabilities. All Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City Inc. vehicles are 
equipped with "Cab Connect" tracking system that can accurately track the start and end of travel locations, distance 
traveled and the necessary billing information. Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City Inc. is the only cab company that has a permit 
to operate in San Mateo with the capacity to manage the current scale of the “Get Around” program. Per the City's 
purchasing ordinance (3.60.050) exceptions (b), it is possible to award an agreement without the required RFP (Request 
for Proposal) procedure if it is deemed impracticable, unavailing, or impossible to call for bids through a competitive 
process. Staff has determined that no other transportation companies that are licensed by the City of San Mateo have the 
necessary fleet size to meet the requirements of this contact.
BUDGET IMPACT:
$150,000 has been budgeted in the 2024 budget cycle and this agenda report is for contract authority only.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the 
environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
19 of 763

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution  
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Douglas, Community Services Manager
sdouglas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7442
20 of 763

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO.
(2023)
APPROVING ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR AN AGREEMENT WITH SERRA YELLOW CAB, 
INC. FOR “GET AROUND” SENIORS TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo “Get Around” Program (“Program”) for seniors transportation, has 
been operated by the Parks and Recreation Department since January 1, 2018; and
WHEREAS, in 2022 the Program allowed 1,061 San Mateo seniors to take a total of 4,055 low-cost rides; 
and
WHEREAS, the competitive process required by the Purchasing policy for Professional Services over 
$100,000 is impracticable as Serra Yellow Cab, Inc. is the only business that can meet the Program’s needs, with 
over 150 vehicles in operation;  other licensed operators have no more than 10 vehicles in operation; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b) provides that exceptions to the City Council Award 
Procedures are possible if the Council makes a finding concurrent with the award that calling for bids for that 
particular agreement is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible; and 
WHEREAS, City staff recommends approval of the agreement with Serra Yellow Cab, Inc. for up to 
$150,000. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and 
RESOLVES that:
1. The agreement with Serra Yellow Cab, Inc. is not a project as defined by the California Environmental 
Quality Act in that it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical 
changes in the environment.
2. Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b), calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing, or 
impossible because Serra Yellow Cab, Inc. is the only City of San Mateo licensed business operator with enough 
cabs to meet the Program requirements.
3. The Parks and Recreation Director is authorized to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
submitted.
21 of 763

--- page 22 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
AGREEMENT WITH SERRA YELLOW CAB OF DALY CITY INC. 
FOR TRANSPORTATION SERVICES 
FOR  
SENIOR “GET AROUND” PROGRAM  
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and SERRA YELLOW CAB OF DALY CITY INC., a CALIFORNIA CORPORATION ("CONTRACTOR"), 
whose address is 195 87TH STREET, #D, DALY CITY, CA 94015.  
 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain transportation services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these transportation services by reason 
of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered to 
provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
.
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.  
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
22 of 763

--- page 23 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on July 1, 2023 and be 
completed on June 30, 2024.  The City may extend the Agreement for one (1) additional year (July 1, 
2024-June 30, 2025). 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount 
of up to $150,000 for fiscal year 2023-2024, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and 
incorporated by reference.  CITY may extend Agreement for an additional fiscal year (2024-2025) for 
up to $150,000 for a potential Agreement total of $300,000. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
23 of 763

--- page 24 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
24 of 763

--- page 25 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
25 of 763

--- page 26 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Joanne Magrini 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Street 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
SERRA YELLOW CAB OF DALY CITY INC. 
Attn: Talib Salamin 
195 87th Street, #D 
Daly City, CA 94015 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
26 of 763

--- page 27 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and SERRA YELLOW CAB, INC. have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Joanne Magrini 
Director, Parks and Recreation 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Talib Salamin 
Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City Inc. 
President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER  
(if necessary, per the above) 
 
Mazarin Vakharia 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
Date 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A:  
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B:  
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C:  
Insurance Requirements 
27 of 763

--- page 28 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
The CITY OF SAN MATEO Senior Transportation “Get Around” Program provides limited on demand 
transportation services for City of San Mateo residents aged 60+ that have been qualified for the 
program by City of San Mateo staff.  
 
The CONTRACTOR will be notified of eligible participants on an as needed basis and prior to the rider’s  
initial call to obtain service from the contractor. The information that will be provided will include the  
name, San Mateo address, phone number of the patron, and if the patron requires a specific type of  
assisted transportation. 
 
The CONTRACTOR will use the Cab Connect software system to track all of the rides. The City of San  
Mateo will provide Senior Transportation “Get Around” program cards to the qualified participants. In 
the event of a system failure the Contractor will provide a written voucher for all manually entered 
rides, this will include the start and end points of the trip, the metered amount, and a name and 
signature of the participant who used the trip. All manually entered rides need to be clearly identified 
on the monthly invoice. 
 
Riders are eligible to take one-way trips to any destination within the cities of San Mateo, Burlingame,  
Foster City, Belmont, Hillsborough, San Carlos and Redwood City. All trips will start or end in the City of  
San Mateo. Riders can also make direct trips to the Veterans Administration Medical Campus - Menlo  
Park Division (795 Willow Road, 94025) and Veterans Administration Medical Campus -Palo Alto  
Division (3801 Miranda Avenue, 94304) and Stanford University Medical Center and their medical  
offices (300 Pasteur Drive, 94305).  
 
The CITY OF SAN MATEO will not pay for any rides that start or end outside of the specified program  
boundaries. 
 
The CITY OF SAN MATEO will retain the right to adjust the number of rides that program participants 
may take including adjusting monthly and yearly maximums. 
 
The CONTRACTOR will provide transfer assistance to passengers needing assistance in and out of the  
vehicle upon request. The transfer assistance will be limited to cab to curb and curb to cab, excludes  
any stairs, and drivers will not carry any patrons.  
 
The CONTRACTOR will provide wheelchair and scooter enabled vehicles upon request. The contractor  
will secure the patron’s wheelchair or scooter to the vehicle.  
 
CONTRACTOR will respond to on demand requests within 30 minutes of the call for standard vehicles  
and up to 45 minutes for wheelchair and scooter-equipped vehicles.  
 
CONTRACTOR will provide background and driving record checks on all employees with direct access to  
riders. 
 
28 of 763

--- page 29 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
CONTRACTOR will not make any extra stops on any ride. Patrons can bring as many passengers as the  
vehicle is licensed to carry. 
29 of 763

--- page 30 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT RATES 
 
CONTRACTOR will submit an itemized invoice to the CITY by the 20th of each month to evidence all 
rides provided. 
 
Invoices should be sent to: 
 
San Mateo Parks and Recreation 
 
Attn: Senior Transportation “Get Around” Program 
 
330 West 20th Avenue 
 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
The CITY will send invoiced payment within 30 days of receipt of the invoice. 
 
Payments should be sent to: 
 
Serra Yellow Cab of Daly City Inc. 
 
Attn: Talib Salamin 
 
195 87th Street #D 
 
Daly City, CA 94015 
 
Transportation rates will be charged at the following rates: 
Rides that over 5 miles will be charged $25.10 starting fee, plus $3.00 per mile on the 5 plus mile, plus 
15% service fee. Any rides that are less than five miles will be charged a five-mile rate of $25.10. 
Wheelchair accessible rides will be charged a $40.00 starting fee (flag drop), plus $3.00 dollars a mile, 
plus 15% service fee.  Any wheelchair accessible rides that are less than five miles will be charged a 
five-mile rate of $40.00. An additional $0.30 click charge will be incurred for trips slowed by excessive 
traffic or other uncontrollable circumstances. The senior patrons will pay the first $5.00 and the 
remaining fee will be paid by the City.  
  
The City of San Mateo will not pay for any gratuity or tipping. Any tips will be left to the rider’s  
discretion. 
  
All fees, taxes and services under this Agreement shall not exceed $150,000 for fiscal year 2023-2024 
and if CITY chooses option to extend an additional year, Agreement shall not exceed $150,0000 for 
fiscal year 2024-2025.  Total Agreement shall not exceed $300,000. 
30 of 763

--- page 31 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
31 of 763

--- page 32 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 12/22 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
32 of 763

--- page 33 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 18-6110
File ID: 23-7517
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Summer Camp Bus Transportation – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with First Student, Inc. to provide bus transportation services for City of San Mateo summer camps 
from June 12, 2023 through August 11, 2023 for a contract amount of $118,272; establish a contingency reserve of 10%; 
and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.  
BACKGROUND:
For the 2023 summer camp session, the City will be hosting summer camps at various parks and facilities throughout San 
Mateo for participants ages 6-14. Over the 9 weeks of camps over 1,400 participants will be accommodated. A key 
component of these camps will be field trips. These field trip locations include Great America, Bel Mateo Bowl, Coyote 
Point, and Oakland Zoo, to name a few. In addition, buses are needed to transport participants to local City aquatics 
facilities for weekly swimming and to local County public parks. 
 
On February 13, 2023, a formal request for proposals (RFP) was posted with all proposals being due by 5:00pm on 
February 28, 2023. The City received a total of three responses, and First Student Inc. was selected based on their ability to 
provide the services requested in the RFP scope. The other two vendors who responded were unable to guarantee the 
necessary number of buses needed during the timeframe requested. First Student Inc. attests to having “a century of 
experience and dedicated service to showcase their commitment to safety.” First Student Inc. successfully provided bus 
services for the City of San Mateo for prior summer camps.
BUDGET IMPACT:
$118,272 plus a 10% potential contingency reserve is included in the Parks and Recreation operating budget, and this 
agenda report is for contract authority only.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct 
or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement 
33 of 763

--- page 34 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Douglas, Community Services Manager
sdouglas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7442
34 of 763

--- page 35 ---
AGREEMENT WITH FIRST STUDENT INC.
FOR BUS TRANSPORTATION SERVICES
FOR
2023 SUMMER CAMP FIELD TRIPS

This Agreement, made and entered into this day of , by and between the
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California
("CITY"), and FIRST STUDENT INC., a CORPORATION ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 600 VINE
STREET, SUITE 1400, CINCINNATI OH 45202 USA

RECITALS:

A. CITY desires certain BUS TRANSPORTATION services hereinafter described.

B. CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these BUS TRANSPORTATION services
by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has
offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein.

NOW, THEREFORE, iT IS AGREED as follows:

SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES

The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.

SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement. CONTRACTOR shall,

without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.

CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this
Agreement.

CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform
the services of CONTRACTOR.

CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in

Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer
Price Index escalator.

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

35 of 763


--- page 36 ---
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.

CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work.

SECTION 4 - TERM

The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on MONDAY, JUNE 12,
2023, and be completed on FRIDAY, AUGUST 11, 2023.

SECTION 5 - PAYMENT

Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In consideration for the full
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount
of $118,272.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference.

SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days'
written notice to CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon
receipt of said written notice.

SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not.

SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public. CONTRACTOR shall not make any
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest,

direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the
performance of the services under this Agreement.

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

36 of 763


--- page 37 ---
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS

It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement,
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the
result is accomplished. Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.

SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY

CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials,
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole
negligence or willful misconduct. CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.

SECTION 12 - INSURANCE

Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified
in Exhibit C to this Agreement

SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY

Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written
consent of CITY.

SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR

It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work. The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

37 of 763


--- page 38 ---
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS

The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any
applicable law or ordinance.

SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES

Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this
Agreement. The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court,
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions. It
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.

SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION

CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity. Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.

SECTION 18 - MEDIATION

Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to
mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator shall be
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.

The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

38 of 763


--- page 39 ---
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION

CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement. Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual
testimony.

SECTION 20 - NOTICES

All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as
follows:

To CITY: Joanne Magrini
City of San Mateo
330 W 20" Avenue
San Mateo, CA, 94403

To CONTRACTOR: First Student Inc.
Attn: Luke Barbosa
600 Vine Street
Suite 1400
Cincinnati, OH, 45702

SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT

This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written
or oral.

This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and
CONTRACTOR.

SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE

This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.

[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

39 of 763


--- page 40 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and FIRST STUDENT INC. have executed this

Agreement the day and year first above written.

CITY OF SAN MATEO

Joanne Magrini Date
Director of Parks and Recreation

APPROVED AS TO FORM

Mazarin Vakharia Date
Assistant City Attorney

Attachments:

Exhibit A: Scope of Services
Exhibit B: Payment Rates

Exhibit C: Insurance Requirements

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

CONTRACTOR

Tim Colleran Date

Its Authorized Agent
VP Charter Operations

If a Corporation, can be either 1)
President or 2) Vice President plus
an additional corporate officer
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who
shall sign below.

ADDITIONAL CORPORATE
OFFICER
(if necessary, per the above)

Date

40 of 763


--- page 41 ---
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES

Response Time

CONTRACTOR will be required to have vehicles at the pick-up area(s) a minimum of

30 minutes prior to the trip. From time-to-time San Mateo may require additional bus service
for field trips and other transportation services, vehicles must be at the designated pick-up
area(s) a minimum of 30 minutes prior to the scheduled departure.

Additions/deletions of Routes

Although this agreement identifies specific routes/services required, it is hereby agreed and
understood that any route/service may be added or deleted to/from this contract at the

option of San Mateo. When an addition to this contract is required, CONTRACTOR shall submit price
quotes for these new routes/services and may be added to the contract in San Mateo’s best interest.

Programs to be Serviced by Buses and Drivers
Camp Mateo: Buses with drivers needed for nine (9) camp weeks. The camp will run from June 12,
2023 through August 11, 2023.

Week 1: June 12, 2023-June 16 ,2023: Ten (10) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 2: June 19, 2023-June 23, 2023: Ten (10) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 3: June 26, 2023-June 30, 2023: Ten (10) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 4: July 5, 2023-July 7, 2023: Six (6) buses and drivers must be provided

Week 5: July 10, 2023-July 14, 2023: Ten (10) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 6: July 17, 2023-July 20, 2023: Ten (10) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 7: July 24, 2023-July 28, 2023: Ten (10) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 8: July 31, 2023-August 3, 2023: Ten (10) buses and drivers must be provided
Wek 9: August 7, 2023-August 11, 2023: Ten (10) buses and drivers must be provided

X-treme Summer Days: Buses with drivers needed for nine (9) camp weeks. The camp will run from
June 12, 2023 through August 11, 2023.

Week 1: June 12, 2023-June 16 ,2023: Six (6) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 2: June 19, 2023-June 23, 2023: Five (5) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 3: June 26, 2023-June 30, 2023: Three (3) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 4: July 5, 2023-July 7, 2023: Two (2) buses and drivers must be provided

Week 5: July 10, 2023-July 14, 2023: Three (3) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 6: July 17, 2023-July 20, 2023: Five (5) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 7: July 24, 2023-July 28, 2023: Four (4) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 8: July 31, 2023-August 3, 2023: Four (4) buses and drivers must be provided
Week 9: August 7, 2023-August 11, 2023: Four (4) buses and drivers must be provided

Buses and Drivers shall meet the following conditions:

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

41 of 763


--- page 42 ---
1. Buses shall be certified by the State meeting requirements to transport school children a minimum
of fifty-five (55) passengers with radio dispatch.

2. CONTRACTOR will meet all Federal and State rules, regulations, statutes, and ordinances, including
proper driver’s license, bus certification, etc.

3. Rental fee to include all gasoline charges. All maintenance of all vehicles, including any towing
charges incurred by disabled buses, will be the CONTRACTOR responsibility.

4. Any claims of damage must be reported to the Parks & Recreation Director. Any necessary repairs
for the damage must be submitted in writing with cost estimated and pre-approved by the Parks &
Recreation Director before repairs are started.

5. Number of hours and buses are approximations and specific numbers are dependent on other
factors. CONTRACTOR will be given as much advanced notice as possible, but not less than 24 hours.

6. Radio communications between the bus drivers and the bus dispatcher must be in effect and
operating at all times.

7. CITY reserves the right to cancel bus use for individual trips by giving 24 hours’ notice without
penalty. If CONTRACTOR cancels, a minimum of 24 hours’ notice will be required to the CITY. Full-
refund of cost of services cancelled shall be issued to the CITY within (4) weeks.

8. A Program Supervisor riding the bus may request changes in the bus schedule or stops due to
weather conditions or emergency situations. Driver must recognize staff requests for schedule changes
and emergency stops and honor them.

9. All prices shall include parking/toll charges. Buses must stay with the group for the duration of the
individual trip unless otherwise directed by the Program Supervisor.

10. All buses must stay with Parks & Recreation Camps and not go on another trip/location and leave
our camp children at the program location without a bus. Bus and bus driver must stay with the camp

event due to possible inclement weather or/an emergency situation.

11. Bus driver and Program Supervisor shall remain in contact during each trip. Program Supervisor will
supply bus driver with cell phone number and bus driver is expected to do the same.

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

42 of 763


--- page 43 ---
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES

CONTRACTOR will provide services outlined in Exhibit B for the City of San Mateo Summer Camps from
June 12, 2023 through August 11, 2023 for a contract amount of $118,272.00.

CITY reserves the right to cancel bus use for individual trips by giving 24 hours’ notice without penalty.
If CONTRACTOR cancels, a minimum of 24 hours’ notice will be required to the CITY. Full-refund of cost
of services cancelled shall be issued to the CITY within (4) weeks.

CONTRACTOR will provide monthly invoices via e-mail to Community Services Section Manager,
Stephanie Douglas at sdouglas@cityofsanmateo.org.

CITY will process invoices and send payment via check or Electronic Funds Transfer. Payments will be
mailed or electronically transferred no later than four (4) weeks upon receipt of invoice (unless an
error has occurred on the received invoice).

Prices shall remain fixed and firm during the initial term of this contract; provided however, that the
company may offer incentive discounts from the fixed price to San Mateo at any time during the
contractual term.

lf an error is found by CITY, CONTRACTOR will provide the process on how to remedy said error. After

the error has been resolved, the CITY will pay out CONTRACTOR no later than four (4) weeks after that
date.

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

43 of 763


--- page 44 ---
Exhibit B

Bus Arrival
to Camp

Program Departure from

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center

# of
; Bus return # of seatbelts 7
Destination to Camp Hours. Biees pases Y orN Agency Bid
725 Monte Diabto Ave.

6.75 1 45 y $1,080.00
San Mateo, CA 94401
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401 Washington Park
9:30 AM 850 Burlingame Ave. 2 75
¥ Burlingame, CA 94010
Shoreview Park 950
Camp Mateo Ocean View Ave.
San Mateo, Ca 94401
Tuesday, June 13, 2023
Beresford Park 2720 Coyote Point Park 1701
Alameda de las Pulgas | 9:30AM Coyote Point Dr. 5 2 75 y
San Mateo, Ca 94403 San Mateo, CA 94401

je] + fone

7

pee fef
pele

All Fired Up
9:45 AM | 344 Lorton Ave, Burlingame,
CA 94010

Monday, June 12, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

$1,600.00

<=

$1,600.00

$1,328.00

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94401

Oakland Zoo
9777 Golf Links Rd,
Oakland, CA 94605

X-Treme Summer Days

Dr, Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Aqua Adventure, 40500
Paseo Padre Pkwy,
Fremont, CA 94538

doinville Swim Center 2111
12:30 PM Kehoe Ave. San f
Mateo, CA 94403

Bel Mateo Bowl
9:30 AM 4330 Olympic Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403

Century 12 Theatres
9:30 AM 320 East 2nd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center 2
X-Treme Summer Days 725 Monte Diablo Ave. 40:00 AM
San Mateo, CA 94401

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

X-Treme Summer Days

Wednesday, June 14, 2023

Beresford Park 2720
Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo, Ca 94403

Camp Mateo

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Camp Mateo

Shoreview Park 950
Ocean View Ave.
San Mateo, Ca 94401

Thursday, June 15, 2023

Beresford Park 2720
Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo, Ca 94403

Camp Mateo

Coyote Point Park
1701 Coyote Point Dr.
San Mateo, CA 94401

$1,600.00
$1,040.00

$800.00

Umbrelia Alley, 757 Beach

Friday, June 16, 2023 St, San Francisco, CA 94109

X-Treme Summer Days 10:00 AM

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

LaserMaxx San Carlos
1119 Industrial Rd Ste F,
San Carlos, CA 94070

Monday, June 19, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

44 of 763


--- page 45 ---
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Shoreview Park 950
Ocean View Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Camp Mateo

Coyote Point Park
1701 Coyote Point Dr.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Tuesday, June 20, 2023

Beresford Park 2720
Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo, CA 94403

Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

X-Treme Summer Days

Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

X-Treme Summer Days

Wednesday, June 21, 2023

Beresford Park 2720
Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo, Ca 94403

Camp Mateo

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Washington Park
850 Burlingame Ave.
Burlingame, CA 94010

9:30 AM

Glow Candle Lounge
1140-7 Lincoln Ave,
San Jose, CA 95125

9:45 AM

Pacifica Archery, 2995
dunipero Serra Blvd,
Daly City, CA 94014

10:00 AM

Joinville Swim Center
2111 Kehoe Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403

12:30 PM

Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

X-Treme Summer Days

Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Camp Mateo

Thursday, June 22, 2023

Shoreview Park 950
Ocean View Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Camp Mateo

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
10:30 AM

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Museum Of 3D Illusions 55-
61 Jefferson St, San
Francisco, CA 94133

Century 12 Theatres
320 East 2nd Ave
San Mateo, CA 94401

Beresford Park 2720
Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo, CA 94403

Camp Mateo

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Friday, June 23, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Monday, June 26, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Shoreview Park
950 Ocean View Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Tuesday, June 27, 2023 Camp Mateo

Beresford Park
2720 Alameda de las
Pulgas
San Mateo, CA 94403

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Bel Mateo Bowl
4330 Olympic Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403

10:15 AM

Golfland Emerald Hills
976 Blossom Hill Rd,
San Jose, CA 95123

SilverCreek Sportsplex

9:30 AM 800 Embedded Way,

San Jose, CA 95138

Magical Bridge Playground

9:30 AM 3700 Middlefield Rd,

Palo Alto, CA 94306

Stafford Park
King St. and Hopkins Ave.
Redwood City, CA 94062

9:30 AM

4:00 PM

4:30 PM

4:30 PM

4:00 PM

4:30 PM

2:30 PM

ad
th
a

a
NI
o

6.75

$1,600.00

$1,600.00

$1,600.00

75

$1,040.00

$1,600.00

45 of 763


--- page 46 ---
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Exploratorium at Pier 15

Community Center (Embarcadero at Green
725 Monte Diablo Ave. Street)

San Mateo, CA 94401 San Francisco, CA 94111

4:30 PM 75

1 | $1,200.00

$1,600.00

$2,000.00

ca
45 y $880.00
$1,600.00

y $1,120.00
y $1,840.00
$1,040.00

|

Wednesday, June 28, 2023

12:30 PM

Golfland
976 Blossom Hill Rd.
San Jose, CA 95123

4:00 PM 6.25
Thursday, June 29, 2023

Pinstripes,
36 Hillsdale Mall, San
Mateo, CA 94403

Friday, June 30, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

4:30 PM

Wednesday, July 5, 2023

5
75
75
76
45
75

: SS

~
Ei

4:00 PM

Camp Mateo

Thursday, July 6, 2023 :

2:30 PM 5.75

Camp Mateo

4:00 PM

fod
no
a

Friday, July 7, 2023 4:30 PM

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Monday, July 10, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days 4:00 PM

ef fe |

pe} oe fe]

X-Treme Summer Days
Beresford Park 5
Joinville Swim Center
Camp Mateo #20 at cy noe 2111 Kehoe Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403 Ju lero busas cide
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diabio Ave.
Camp Mateo San Mateo, CA 94401
Shoreview Park
950 Ocean View Ave. San
Mateo, CA 94401
Beresford Park ;
Silver Creek Sports Plex 800
Camp Mateo 2720 Alameda de las | g:45 aM | Embedded Way, San} 2:30PM | 5.75
Jose, CA 95138
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center ;
725 Monte Diablo Ave. nnn
San Mateo, CA 94401
Week 4 (No trips Mon, Tue)
Beresford Park ee +
Joinville Swim Center
Camp Mateo tes aration Be 188 12:30 PM 2111 Kehoe Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403 Sen Maio, GA paabe
Ef Coan © bites us Mystery Spot Santa Cruz
X-Treme Summer Days j 9:00 AM _ | 465 Mystery Spot Rd, Santa
725 Monte Diablo Ave. Cruz, CA 95085
San Mateo, CA 94401 *
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave. Silver Creek Sports Plex 800
an Mateo CA 9440 8:45 AM | Embedded Way, San
Shoreview Park Jose, CA 95138
950 Ocean View Ave. San
Mateo, CA 94401
Beresford Park
Golfland
Camp Mateo 2720 Alameda de las | 945 am | 976 Blossom Hill Rd
San Jose, CA 95123
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center . San Pedro Beach, 5200 CA-
X-Treme Summer Days | 795 vonte Diablo Ave. | '0°0AM |" 4 pacitica, CA 94044
San Mateo, CA 94401
SF Zoo,
Community Center 9:00 AM Sloat Bivd & Upper Great
725 Monte Diablo Ave. . Hwy,
San Mateo, CA 94401 San Francisco, CA 94132
Or. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401 Stafford Park
9:30 AM | King St. and Hopkins Ave.
Shoreview Park Redwood City, CA 94062
Tuesday, July 11, 2023 Camp Mateo 950 Ocean View Ave. San
Mateo, CA 94401
Beresford Park 2720
Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo, CA 94403

Magical Bridge Playground
3700 Middlefield Rd
Palo Alto, CA 94306

2:30 PM

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Beresford Park 2720
Alameda de las Pulgas
‘San Mateo, CA 94403

Tech Museum
201 S Market St,
San Jose, CA 95113

Joinville Swim Center
12:30 PM 2111 Kehoe Ave.»
San Mateo, CA 94403

Tuesday, July 11, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days 4:00 PM

Wednesday, July 12, 2023 Camp Mateo —

46 of 763


--- page 47 ---
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
Samp Rein 725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401
Thursday, July 13, 2023 Camp Mateo 950 Ocean View Ave. San
Mateo, CA 94401
Camp Mateo 2720 Alameda de las

Friday, July 14, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

Monday, July 17, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

Shoreview Park

Beresford Park

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Oakland Zoo
9777 Golf Links Rd,
Oakland, CA 94605

San Jose Tech Museum
201 S Market Street
San Jose, CA 95113

DeYoung Museum
50 Hagiwara Tea Garden Dr
| San Francisco, CA 94118

$2,496.00

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

10:00 AM

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401
Shoreview Park
950 Ocean View Ave. San
Tuesday, July 18, 2023 Camp Mateo Mateo, CA 94401
Beresford Park 2720
Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo, CA 94403

Tuesday, July 18, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

X-Treme Summer Days
Wednesday, July 19, 2023

Camp Mateo

X-Treme Summer Days &
ST@K

Cull Canyon,
18627 Cull Canyon Rd.
Castro Valley, CA 94552

San Pedro Valley Park &
Frontier Land
600 Oddstad Blvd, Pacifica,
CA 94044

Adventure Playground in
Berkley
460 University Ave,
Berkeley, CA 94710

$2,000.00

$1,200.00

$1,048.00

$1,840.00

$2,176.00

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

10:00 AM

San Mateo, CA 94403

Camp Mateo

Camp Mateo

Camp Mateo

Thursday, July 20, 2023

Monday, July 24, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

Tuesday, July 25, 2023 Camp Mateo

Curiodyssey,
1651 Coyote Point Dr,
San Mateo, CA 94401

iFly Union City

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center e
725 Monte Diablo Ave. | 10:00AM ae bile yh
San Mateo, CA 94401 ¥,

Beresford Park 2720 Joinville Swim Center
Alameda de las Pulgas | 12:30 PM 2111 Kehoe Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94403

Great America

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center | 9-99 am | 4701 Great America Pkwy,
725 Monte Diablo Ave. Santa Clara, CA 95054
San Mateo, CA 94401 ki '

Great America

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401 9:00 AM | 4701 Great America Pkwy,
Shoreview Park Santa Clara, CA 95054
950 Ocean View Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Beresford Park

2720 Alameda de las 9:00 AM

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center ‘
725 Monte Diablo Ave, | 10:00AM
San Mateo, CA 94401

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diabto Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401
8:45 AM
Shoreview Park
950 Ocean View Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Beresford Park
2720 Alameda de tas .
Pulgas ae
San Mateo, CA 94403

Great America
4701 Great America Pkwy,
Santa Clara, CA 95054

SF State Tour + exploring
1600 Holloway Avenue
San Francisco, CA 94132

Adventure Playground in
Berkley
160 University Ave,
Berkeley, CA 94710

San Pedro Valley Park &
Frontier Land
600 Oddstad Blvd.
Pacifica, CA 94044

47 of 763

$960.00

$968.00

$1,600,00

$2,560.00

$2,400.00

$2,400.00
$800.00

$2,176.00

$1,840.00



--- page 48 ---
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

X-Treme Summer Days
Beresford Park 2720
Alameda de las Pulgas

Camp Mateo
San Mateo, CA 94403
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center

a sn 725 Monte Diablo Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94401
Shoreview Park

Thursday, July 27, 2023 Camp Mateo

Tuesday, July 25, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

Wednesday, July 26, 2023

9:00 AM

11:00 AM

Jack London Aquatic Center,
115 Embarcadero, Oakland,
CA 94607

Adventue CAT Sailing
Pier 39, San Francisco, CA

Joinville Swim Center
2111 Kehoe Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403

San Jose Tech Museum
201 S Market St, San Jose,
CA 95113

Beresford Park
2720 Alameda de las

950 Ocean View Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94401
San Mat
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
X-Treme Summer Days

Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Friday, July 18, 2023

Week 8

7:15 AM

Oakland Zoo
9777 Golf Links Rd,
Oakland, CA 94605

Santa Cruz Beach
Boardwalk
400 Beach Street,
Santa Cruz, CA 95060

4:30 PM

4

7.75

10.25

~~ >
<

nN
EN ~ ~
a a a

$1,048.00

y $880.00

$1,600.00

y $2,000.00

y $2,480.00

y $1,640.00

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Monday, July 31, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

Beresford Park
2720 Alameda de las
Pulgas
San Mateo, CA 94403

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

X-Treme Summer Days

X-Treme Summer Days

Hillsdale Shopping Center,
21 W Hillsdale Blvd,
San Mateo, CA 94403

Wednesday, Aug 2, 2023

Beresford Park

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.

Camp Mateo
Thursday, Aug 3, 2023 San Mateo, CA 94401
Shoreview Park
Camp Mateo 950 Ocean View Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401
Beresford Park
Camp Mateo 2720 Alameda de las
San Mat

11:00 AM

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center

725 Monte Diablo Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94401
10:00 AM

Shoreview Park
Camp Mateo 950 Ocean View Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401
Tuesday, August 1, 2023
9:30 AM
9:00 AM
10:00 AM
2720 Alameda de las :

Camp Mateo Pulgas 12:30 PM

San Mateo, CA 94403

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
: Community Center .
X-Treme Summer Days 725 Monte Diablo Ave. 10:00 AM
San Mateo, CA 94401

9:00 AM

Ryder Park,
1801 J Hart Clinton Dr,
San Mateo, CA 94401

Taco Bell & Beach @
Pacifica Beach
5200 CA-1,
Pacifica, CA 94044

Laurie Meadows Park
San Mateo CA, 94403

California Academy of
Sciences

55 Music Concourse Dr, San

Francisco, CA 94118

Bowlmateo,
4330 Olympic Ave,
San Mateo, CA 94403

3:30 PM

(Kids will
walk to
Hillsdate
Mall)

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Joinville Swim Genter
2111 Kehoe Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403

SF Giants game
24 Willie Mays Plz,
San Francisco, CA 94107

Aqua Adventures
40500 Paseo Padre Pkwy,

Fremont, CA 94538

Lost Worlds Funtropolis
5401 Camden Ave,
San Jose, CA 95124

4:30 PM

4:00 PM

45

on

7.25

™ Se "

a

N
~
a

»
a

$800.00

$1,760.00

a

$1,920.00

y $1,200.00

$1,120.00

y $1,600.00

$2,416.00

75 y $2,320.00

J
a

<

<

> Nn

48 of 763


--- page 49 ---
Week 9

Monday, Aug 7, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center §
725 Monte Diablo Ave. G6 manmenee Fa

9:30 AM 4:00 PM
San Mateo, CA 94401 Redwood City, CA 94063

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401 , Laurie Meadows Park ,
10:00AM | San Mateo CA, 94403 | 3:30PM
Shoreview Park

Camp Mateo 950 Ocean View Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94401
Tuesday, Aug 8, 2023

Beresford Park 2720 oes zeae @
12:00 PM 5200 CA-1 3:30 PM
Pacifica, CA 94044

Pizza My Heart,

a

$1,040.00

$1,760.00

$1,600.00

~
oa

Alameda de las Pulgas
San Mateo, CA 94403

nD
~ cw

ie pon ty Ae a Aquarium of the Bay + Pier
X-Treme Summer Days y 9:00 AM 39 The Embarcadero 4:30 PM 7.5 y $1,200.00
725 Monte Diablo Ave. aan teks ess
San Mateo, CA 94401 an Francisco,

Beresford Park 2720 Joinville Swim Center
Alameda de las Pulgas | 12:30 PM 2111 Kehoe Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94403 San Mateo, CA 94403

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Wednesday, Aug 9, 2023 Camp Mateo

$1,600.00
$1,280.00

YMCA Camp Jones Gulch,
11000 Pescadero Creek Rd,
La Honda, CA 94020

> x
a a
: es

Thursday, Aug 10, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days

Community Center
725 Monte Diablo Ave. Lost Worlds Funtropolis
Camp Mateo San Mateo, CA 94401 5401 Camden Ave, $2,320.00
Shoreview Park San Jose, CA 95124

950 Ocean View Ave.
San Mateo, CA 94401

Beresford Park
2720 Alameda de las

4:00 PM 7.25
Pulgas

4:30 PM 75
San Mateo, CA 94403

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Friday, August 11, 2023 X-Treme Summer Days Community Center 10:30 AM | 940 deat uak oe aN it
y, Aug! ‘ y 725 Monte Diablo Ave. . 2 MUIpRaS,

CA 95035

RAND TOTAL: |i 7773 9)

Thursday, Aug 10, 2023

Aqua Adventures
40500 Paseo Padre Pkwy,
Fremont, CA 94538

75

Camp Mateo $2,416.00

$1,040.00

a

G

49 of 763


--- page 50 ---
EXHIBIT C

INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE

Coverage shall be at least as broad as:

1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal &
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.

2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than
$5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.

3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury
or disease.

If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.

Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:

Additional Insured Status

The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).

Primary Coverage

For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.

Notice of Cancellation

Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

50 of 763


--- page 51 ---
Waiver of Subrogation

Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. Contractor
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation
endorsement from the insurer.

Deductibles and Self-insured Retentions

Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of

ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the
retention.

Acceptability of Insurers

Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless
otherwise acceptable to the City.

Verification of Coverage

Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates and
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences. However, failure
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s
obligation to provide them. The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.

Contract for Services
Rev 12/22

51 of 763


--- page 52 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2021
File ID: 23-7520
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Fiscal Year 2023-24 General Obligation Bond – Tax Rate Levy
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to levy the property tax rate of $0.0057 per $100 of assessed value, equating to $5.70 per $100,000 
assessed value), for the voter-approved General Obligation Bond annual debt service payment.
BACKGROUND:
General Obligation Bonds (GO Bonds) are typically issued to finance government improvements benefiting the community 
as a whole. These obligations require 2/3rd voter approval and are secured by an annual tax levy on all assessed property 
within a jurisdiction. Due to the strength of this security pledge, General Obligation Bonds are typically the lowest cost 
form of public financing. 
In 1999, voters approved a $35 million bond issue to finance construction of a new main library and improvements to the 
City’s branch libraries. These bonds were issued in two series, $12 million in 2000 (GO Bonds, Series 2000) and the 
remaining $23 million in 2004 (GO Bonds, Series 2004A). The total outstanding balance of these two bonds as of June 30, 
2012 was $29.16 million. In February 2013, City Council authorized the refinancing of these two bond issues. General 
Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2013, were issued for $27.295 million and resulted in net present value savings of $8.4 
million over the life of the remaining outstanding bonds. Correspondingly, starting in 2014, this refinancing reduced the 
annual assessment rate paid by property owners by approximately 20%. 
An annual resolution is required to provide the County of San Mateo the authority to include this levy on the annual tax 
roll. The proposed tax levy for fiscal year 2023-24 is calculated to be $5.70 per $100,000 of assessed value, which 
represents a 5.0% reduction from the prior year levy of $6.00 per $100,000 of assessed value. The recommended 
reduction in the tax levy is due to the projected growth in the City’s assessed value from 2022-23 to 2023-24. The City’s 
total net taxable assessed valuation for fiscal year 2022-23 is $34.6 billion, compared to the prior year’s $32.0 billion. The 
levy rate for 2023-24 assumes a 4.63% increase in assessed value, bringing the total to $36.2 billion. This calculation of the 
tax levy is sufficient to meet debt service requirements as shown in Attachment 2. 
As shown in Attachment 4, the outstanding principal of the GO Bonds, Series 2013, as of the end of fiscal year 2023-24 will 
be $13.0 million, and the final debt service payment will be made in fiscal year 2030-31. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The recommended General Obligation Bond tax rate of $0.0057 per $100 of assessed value for fiscal year 2023-24 is 
estimated to raise adequate funds, approximately $2.049 million, to meet the annual debt service requirement for the 
General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2013, originally issued for library capital projects.
52 of 763

--- page 53 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This GO Bond Tax Rate Levy is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - GO Bonds Debt Service Tax Rate Calculation
Att 3 - Historic GO Bonds Tax Rates
Att 4 - GO Bonds Debt Service Schedule
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
53 of 763

--- page 54 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
FIXING THE 2023-2024 TAX RATE ON VOTER APPROVED GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS
WHEREAS, adoption of California Constitution Article XIII A (Proposition 13) by the voters of the state
on June 6, 1978 automatically established the property tax rate to be fixed without any action of this Council, as
previously required by Charter Section 5.11 and California Government Code Section 51511, except voter 
approved bonds; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has voter-approved general obligation bonds outstanding, requiring
revenues in the sum of $2,049,050 to pay interest and principal for fiscal year 2023-24, which will require a total
tax rate of $0.0057 per $100 of assessed valuation for the Library Project on the estimated $36.2 billion of
combined assessed value roll of secured property and state utility property; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to California Constitution Article XIII A, all other revenue from property taxes
required to balance the budget for the City of San Mateo are to be collected by the County of San Mateo at a tax
rate of 1% of the full face value of real property located in the City of San Mateo ($1.00 per every $100 of
assessed value) and apportioned to the City according to law, and no other tax rate is to be established by City.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
AND ORDERS that: 
1.
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(4), 
levying of this tax rate is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a funding mechanism which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment.
2.
The rate of property tax to be levied by this Council for the fiscal year July 1, 2023 through June 30,
2024, upon each $100 assessed value of all taxable property within the City of San Mateo for the purpose of
redemption of interest and principal on voter-approved general obligation bonds of the City, for the fund, is
hereby fixed at:
General Obligation Bonds Fund – $0.0057 for the Library Project
3.
The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certified copy of this resolution to the
Controller of the County of San Mateo immediately, as the statement of tax rate fixed as required by law.
54 of 763

--- page 55 ---
Principal
Interest
Total Debt Service Payment
GO Bonds 2013 Library Debt Service Payment
1,590,000
$  
459,050
$  
2,049,050
$                                   
Less use of fund balance
-
$                                                    
Adjusted Total
2,049,050
$                                   
City of San Mateo Total Net Taxable Assessed Value
34,579,166,760
$                         
estimated 4.63% increase
1,601,015,421
$                           
2023-24 Projected Assessed Value
36,180,182,181
$                         
GO Bonds Tax Levy
0.000057
City of San Mateo
Schedule of General Obligation Bonds (GO Bonds) Debt Service
For Fiscal Year 2023-24 Tax Rate Calculation
55 of 763

--- page 56 ---
Fiscal Year
GO Bonds Tax Rate
Per $100 Assessed Value
Net Annual
GO Bonds Debt Service
2001-02
0.01350
1,367,000
$                
2002-03
0.01250
1,380,000
$                
2003-04
0.01150
1,383,000
$                
2004-05
0.02530
3,074,170
$                
2005-06
0.02200
2,927,000
$                
2006-07
0.02100
2,945,000
$                
2007-08
0.01930
2,954,000
$                
2008-09
0.01750
2,937,000
$                
2009-10
0.01600
2,663,472
$                
2010-11
0.01290
2,141,030
$                
2011-12
0.01290
2,099,016
$                
2012-13
0.01290
2,162,032
$                
2013-14
0.01050
2,051,350
$                
2014-15
0.01050
2,034,625
$                
2015-16
0.01024
2,040,575
$                
2016-17
0.00900
2,034,450
$                
2017-18
0.00840
2,030,950
$                
2018-19
0.00770
2,030,950
$                
2019-20
0.00710
2,037,950
$                
2020-21
0.00670
2,033,150
$                
2021-22
0.00640
2,045,950
$                
2022-23
0.00600
2,041,250
$                
2023-24
0.00570
2,049,050
$                
CITY OF SAN MATEO
History of General Obligation Bonds Tax Rates
56 of 763

--- page 57 ---
OUTSTANDING
FISCAL
PRINCIPAL
TOTAL ANNUAL
PRINCIPAL
YEAR
AUGUST 1
FEBRUARY 1
TOTAL
AUGUST 1
DEBT SERVICE
JUNE 30
2012-13
-
                         
27,295,000.00
            
2013-14
346,883.34
             
468,175.00
             
815,058.34
             
970,000.00
           
1,785,058.34
          
26,325,000.00
            
2014-15
468,175.00
             
451,450.00
             
919,625.00
             
1,115,000.00
        
2,034,625.00
          
25,210,000.00
            
2015-16
451,450.00
             
434,125.00
             
885,575.00
             
1,155,000.00
        
2,040,575.00
          
24,055,000.00
            
2016-17
434,125.00
             
410,325.00
             
844,450.00
             
1,190,000.00
        
2,034,450.00
          
22,865,000.00
            
2017-18
410,325.00
             
385,625.00
             
795,950.00
             
1,235,000.00
        
2,030,950.00
          
21,630,000.00
            
2018-19
385,625.00
             
359,925.00
             
745,550.00
             
1,285,000.00
        
2,030,550.00
          
20,345,000.00
            
2019-20
359,925.00
             
333,025.00
             
692,950.00
             
1,345,000.00
        
2,037,950.00
          
19,000,000.00
            
2020-21
333,025.00
             
305,125.00
             
638,150.00
             
1,395,000.00
        
2,033,150.00
          
17,605,000.00
            
2021-22
305,125.00
             
275,825.00
             
580,950.00
             
1,465,000.00
        
2,045,950.00
          
16,140,000.00
            
2022-23
275,825.00
             
245,425.00
             
521,250.00
             
1,520,000.00
        
2,041,250.00
          
14,620,000.00
            
2023-24
245,425.00
             
213,625.00
             
459,050.00
             
1,590,000.00
        
2,049,050.00
         
13,030,000.00
           
2024-25
213,625.00
             
188,725.00
             
402,350.00
             
1,660,000.00
        
2,062,350.00
          
11,370,000.00
            
2025-26
188,725.00
             
162,925.00
             
351,650.00
             
1,720,000.00
        
2,071,650.00
          
9,650,000.00
              
2026-27
162,925.00
             
127,425.00
             
290,350.00
             
1,775,000.00
        
2,065,350.00
          
7,875,000.00
              
2027-28
127,425.00
             
90,225.00
               
217,650.00
             
1,860,000.00
        
2,077,650.00
          
6,015,000.00
              
2028-29
90,225.00
               
61,125.00
               
151,350.00
             
1,940,000.00
        
2,091,350.00
          
4,075,000.00
              
2029-30
61,125.00
               
31,050.00
               
92,175.00
               
2,005,000.00
        
2,097,175.00
          
2,070,000.00
              
2030-31
31,050.00
               
-
                           
31,050.00
               
2,070,000.00
        
2,101,050.00
          
-
                               
 TOTAL
4,544,125.00
$       
4,544,125.00
$       
9,435,133.34
$       
27,295,000.00
$   
36,730,133.34
$     
CITY OF SAN MATEO
GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS SERIES 2013
INTEREST PAYMENTS
ISSUE AMOUNT: $27,295,000
CONSTRUCTION OF NEW LIBRARY AND IMPROVEMENT EXISTING LIBRARY PROJECT
ISSUE DATE: JUNE 15, 2013
DEBT SERVICE TO MATURITY
57 of 763

--- page 58 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 23-7469
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Sodium Bisulfite – Change Order
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Contract Change Order No. 1 with Univar Solutions USA, Inc., to increase the supply of sodium bisulfite by 20,000 
gallons, for an amount not to exceed $32,340, for a total agreement amount of $355,734; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the change order in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The Wastewater Treatment Plant, officially the Water Quality Control Plant, uses sodium bisulfite as a de-chlorinating 
reagent in the final wastewater treatment process before discharging to San Francisco Bay. The de-chlorination is a 
requirement of the City’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit. The winter of 2023 brought significant 
rains and abnormally high influent flows. These higher flows required more sodium bisulfite for de-chlorination. The fiscal 
year 2022-23 usage of sodium bisulfite is nearing its contract value. This contract change order will ensure adequate 
supply of sodium bisulfite and funds to provide appropriate de-chlorination for the remainder of the fiscal year.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in the Wastewater Treatment Plant operating budget for this change order. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Contract Change Order No. 1 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Contract Change Order No. 1
STAFF CONTACT
Michael Sutter, Operations Superintendent 
msutter@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7376
58 of 763

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Rob Learmonth, Plant Manager
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
59 of 763

--- page 60 ---
C:\inetpub\wwwroot\multitenant\temp\Att 1 - Contract Change Order No.pdf
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER
PROJECT:
Chemical Supply Contract for Univar Solutions USA Inc. – Sodium Bisulfite
TO: 
Univar Solutions USA, Inc.
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO. 1
              Page 1 of 1
PO/SCON No.
PO-0000241 (46-05681)
Date
04/20/2023
Fund
720
Cost Center
Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Spend Category
Chemicals
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Following is a description of work to be done, estimate of quantities, and prices to be paid.
The winter of 2023 brought significant rains and abnormally high influent flows. These higher flows required more sodium bisulfite for 
dechlorination. The FY2022-23 chemical budget for sodium bisulfite is nearing its contract value. This CCO will increase the total contract 
gallons from 200,000 gallons to 220,000 gallons. This additional 20,000 gallons will increase the total contract amount $32,340.00 
including tax, to ensure adequate funds to complete FY2022-23.  
Total cost of change not to exceed: $32,340.00
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
By reason of this proposed change, --- days extension of time will be allowed.
Date Accepted: 
Contractor (insert company name)
By: 
Title: 
Regional Vice President
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing, City Clerk, Contractor, Construction Manager, 
Project Analyst, Project File
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$323,394.00
Previous Change Orders
$0.00
Total to date
$323,394.00
This Change Order
$32,340.00
Revised Contract Price
$355,734.00
Date Approved: 
By: 
AZALEA MITCH, Director of Public Works
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Director of Public Works.
60 of 763

--- page 61 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 23-7467
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 5, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Sodium Hypochlorite – Change Order
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Contract Change Order No. 1 with Univar USA, Inc., to increase the supply of sodium hypochlorite by 
20,000 gallons for an amount not to exceed $32,704, for a total agreement amount of $523,254; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the change order in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The Wastewater Treatment Plant, officially the Water Quality Control Plant, uses sodium hypochlorite as a disinfecting 
reagent in the treatment process. The chlorination is a requirement of the City’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination 
System permit. The winter of 2023 brought significant rains and abnormally high influent flows. These higher flows 
required more sodium hypochlorite for disinfection. The fiscal year 2022-23 usage of sodium hypochlorite is nearing its 
contract value. This contract change order will ensure adequate supply of sodium hypochlorite and funding to provide 
adequate disinfection for the remainder of the fiscal year.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in the Wastewater Treatment Plant operating budget for this change order.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Contract Change Order #1 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Contract Change Order No. 1
STAFF CONTACT
Michael Sutter, Operations Superintendent 
msutter@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7376
61 of 763

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Rob Learmonth, Plant Manager
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
62 of 763

--- page 63 ---
C:\inetpub\wwwroot\multitenant\temp\Att 1 - Contract Change Order No.pdf
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER
PROJECT:
Chemical Supply Contract for Univar Solutions USA Inc. – Sodium Hypochlorite
TO: 
Univar Solutions USA Inc.
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO. 1
              Page 1 of 1
PO/SCON No.
PO-0000242 (46-05682)
Date
04/20/2023
Fund
720
Cost Center
Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Spend Category
Chemicals
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Following is a description of work to be done, estimate of quantities, and prices to be paid.
The winter of 2023 brought significant rains and abnormally high influent flows. These higher flows required more sodium hypochlorite 
for disinfection. The FY23 chemical budget for sodium hypochlorite is nearing its contract value. This CCO will increase the total contract 
amount from 300,000 gallons to 320,000 gallons. This additional 20,000 gallons will increase the total contract amount $32,704, including 
tax, to ensure adequate funds to complete FY2022-23.  
Total cost of change not to exceed: $32,704.00
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
By reason of this proposed change, --- days extension of time will be allowed.
Date Accepted: 
Contractor (insert company name)
By: 
Title: 
Regional Vice President
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing, City Clerk, Contractor, Construction Manager, 
Project Analyst, Project File
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$490,550.00
Previous Change Orders
$0.00
Total to date
$490,550.00
This Change Order
$32,704.00
Revised Contract Price
$523,254.00
Date Approved: 
By: 
AZALEA MITCH, Director of Public Works
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Director of Public Works.
63 of 763

--- page 64 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 23-7494
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Chemicals – Contracts
RECOMMENDATION:
Award chemical supply contracts to: 1) Hasa, Inc. to supply sodium hypochlorite in the amount of $957,027; 2) Univar 
Solutions USA, Inc. to supply sodium bisulfite in the amount of $404,517; and 3) Kemira Water Solutions, Inc. for the 
supply of ferric chloride in the amount of $312,212; establish 10% contingency reserves for each contract; and authorize 
the Public Works Director to execute the contracts in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amounts.
BACKGROUND:
The wastewater treatment plant (WWTP, officially the Water Quality Control Plant) uses chemicals to treat wastewater in 
accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. 
Sodium Hypochlorite 
The WWTP uses sodium hypochlorite as a disinfecting reagent in the chlorination treatment process. The chlorination 
process is a requirement of the City’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit that regulates 
discharge of treated wastewater to San Francisco Bay. This contract provides for supply and delivery of 300,000 gallons of 
this chemical product. The City participates with other municipalities in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) to 
competitively bid the cost of chemicals needed for wastewater treatment. BACC bid results are summarized below: 
Contractor
Bid Amount
Contract Amount*
Hasa, Inc.
$2.91 
$873,000
Olin Corporation
$3.05
$915,000
    *Amount does not include 9.625% sales tax, see recommendation for amount including sales tax.
Based on the low bid of $2.91 per gallon, staff recommends awarding the contract to Hasa, Inc. for the supply of sodium 
hypochlorite. The contract term is 12 months, and the price is to remain firm for the entire period. 
Sodium Bisulfite 
The WWTP uses sodium bisulfite as a dechlorination reagent in the final wastewater treatment process prior to 
discharging to San Francisco Bay. The dechlorination process is a requirement of the City’s NPDES permit. This contract 
provides for supply and delivery of 200,000 gallons of this chemical product. The BACC bid result for sodium hypochlorite is 
summarized as follows: 
64 of 763

--- page 65 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Contractor
Bid Amount
Contract Amount*
 Univar Solutions USA, Inc.
$1.845
$369,000
 JCI Jones Chemicals Inc.
No Bid
No Bid
     * Amount does not include 9.625% sales tax, see recommendation for amount including sales tax.
Based on the sole bid of $1.845 per gallon, staff recommends awarding the contract to Univar Solutions USA, Inc. for the 
supply of sodium bisulfite. The contract term is 12 months, and the price is to remain firm for the entire period. 
Ferric Chloride 
The WWTP uses ferric chloride to control hydrogen sulfide formation, an odorous compound produced during the solids 
digestion process. Controlling hydrogen sulfide levels is a requirement of the Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
This contract provides for supply and delivery of 200 dry tons of chemical product. The BACC bid result for ferric chloride is 
summarized below: 
Contractor
Bid Amount
Contract Amount*
Kemira Water Solutions, Inc.
$1,424
$284,800
Pencco, Inc.
$1,700
$340,000
Univar Solutions USA Inc.
No Bid
No Bid
    * Amount does not include 9.625% sales tax, see recommendation for amount including sales tax.
Based on the low bid of $1,424 per dry ton, staff recommends award of the contract to Kemira Water Solutions, Inc. for 
the supply of ferric chloride. The term of the contract is 12 months, and the price is to remain firm for the entire period.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds for this agreement in the Fund 72 Sewer Enterprise operating budget for fiscal year 2023-24. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Hasa, Inc. Contract for sodium hypochlorite
Att 2 – BACC Bid Summary for sodium hypochlorite
Att 3 – Univar Solutions USA, Inc. Contract for sodium bisulfite
Att 4 – BACC Bid Summary for sodium bisulfite
Att 5 – Kemira Water Solutions, Inc. Contract for ferric chloride
Att 6 – BACC Bid Summary for ferric chloride
STAFF CONTACT
Michael Sutter, WWTP Operations Superintendent
msutter@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7376
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager 
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
65 of 763

--- page 66 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR SUPPLY O F SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 
FROM HASA, INC.
JULY 1, 2023 TO JUNE 30, 2024
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this
, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as 
"CIT Y ” ,  H a s a ,  Inc., a corporation, with offices 23119 Drayton St. Saugus, CA 91350, 
hereinafter referred to as "SUPPLIER".
RECITALS
(A) CITY has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B) A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of goods 
hereinafter described.
(C) After notice duly given on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the Contract for the 
purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF UP TO 
300,000 GALLONS OF SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%.
2.
Contract Price. CITY shall pay, a n d  the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the 
work above agreed to, the sum of not to exceed $957,027 (nine hundred fifty-seven 
thousand twenty-seven dollars and no cents), priced at $2.91 per gallon of Sodium 
Hypochlorite 12.5%, and inclusive of 9.625% sales tax.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
(BACC) Bid Tabulation for Bid No. 13-2023, Supply and Delivery of Sodium Hypochlorite 12.5%, 
Open Date: January 26, 2023, at 9:00 A.M PDT and shall be paid as described in this Contract. In 
the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those set forth 
in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be paid for as 
described in this Agreement.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents: This 
Contract and the BACC Bid Tabulation.
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described in 
the Contract documents.
66 of 763

--- page 67 ---
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for
in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned 
in all said documents. The documents comprising the complete Contract will hereinafter be 
referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or discrepancy between 
any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract documents, this Contract shall 
prevail.
4.
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the 
CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 
days written notice without cause. Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER 
shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
5.
Schedule. This is a one- y e a r Contract and will cover the period between July 1,2023 
and June 30, 2024.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. SUPPLIER shall furnish 
the Water Quality Control Plant Manager a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified Analysis 
indicating SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and any applicable 
regulatory documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Water Quality Control Plant 
Manager designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each delivery of 
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE to the City of San Mateo, Water Quality Control Plant,
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which in 
any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment used 
by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, and 
all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over the same. 
If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, regulation, order 
or decree, SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing. SUPPLIER shall 
at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended laws, ordinances, 
regulations and orders.
67 of 763

--- page 68 ---
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis in 
the event of an emergency or unusual operating conditions.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
11.
Time of Delivery. SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE will be furnished F.O.B. Destination City 
of San Mateo Water Quality Control Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., 
Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). 
Deliveries will be made in 3,000-gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads.
If SUPPLIER is located outside the (650) area code, then it is requested to provide a toll-
f r e e  telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order.
Deliveries of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE will generally be prescheduled to provide 
SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but SUPPLIER 
must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY's order within 24 hours, unless the CITY requires delivery within 24 
hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours. In the event SUPPLIER fails to 
provide the chemicals within 24 hours or other scheduled delivery timeframe and the CITY is 
forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source all additional CITY cost incurred will 
be made good at the expense of SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay the costs and charges immediately 
upon demand.
Once order is placed and confirmation received the delivery will be accepted at the CITY's 
Water Quality Control Plant 24-hours per day.
12.
Method of Delivery. Delivery shall be by truck tank car. SUPPLIER shall provide all 
unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate fittings for coupling 
to the CITY's chemical unloading facilities. The unloading facilities have standard flange 
connections; exact size and types are available upon request. All shipping containers used shall 
conform to I.C.C. regulations.
13.
Rejection. All shipments of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE will be rejected without the 
following:
a)
Bill of Lading
b)
Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100%
Sodium Hypochlorite
c)
Weighmaster's certificate of weight
d)
Applicable regulatory documents
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall have
68 of 763

--- page 69 ---
the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY. By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted 
any defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived 
any of the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance. 
SUPPLIER shall be responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods. 
Shipping documents and invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
14.
Material Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed
M.S.D.S.  (Material Safety Data Sheet) with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish 
a completed M.S.D.S. form will result in rejection of the bid. The CITY has a preference for 
the M.S.D.S. to be submitted in electronic format. The CITY also requires the M.S.D.S. to be 
sent to the receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a hazardous substance. 
All City, State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly adhered to.
15.
Training.  SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended 
methods for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include any 
recommended absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and recommended 
tests to be performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the neutralization. These 
instructions will be used by Water Quality Control Plant personnel m cleaning up small spills 
associated with leaks in pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide two (2) classroom sessions annually encompassing a minimum of 
two hours, per session, of classroom instruction at the Water Quality Control Plant concerning 
manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being 
provided by SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the 
transport of Sodium Hypochlorite.
16.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, CITY 
shall immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, and the 
sureties shall have the right to take over and perform the agreement, provided, however, that if 
the sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give CITY written 
notice of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to CITY 
of such election, CITY may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract 
or by any other method it may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of SUPPLIER, 
and the sureties shall be liable to CITY for any excess cost or damages occasioned CITY thereby; 
and, in such event, CITY may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in 
completing the work or supply of goods such materials, appliances, plant and other property 
belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site of the work and necessary therefor.
17.
Insurance.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general
69 of 763

--- page 70 ---
aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
4. Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & 
Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per 
claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for 
liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the SUPPLIER's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the CITY.
70 of 763

--- page 71 ---
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, 
but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CITY. The CITY 
may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A: VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates 
and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before work or performance of 
the contract commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to provide them. The CITY reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
18.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; 
in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens 
and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude SUPPLIER’s standard 
warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
19.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of City of San Mateo 
or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage 
or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of San Mateo or Estero 
Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against 
any such claims.
71 of 763

--- page 72 ---
20.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or all 
of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the CITY by 
law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s failure or refusal 
to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery 
containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at SUPPLIER’s 
option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries 
and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s repudiation of this contract. In the event of the 
CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the 
goods or the purchase price payable for goods shipped prior to such breach.
21.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign 
any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
22.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in 
total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost 
bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The 
above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, 
or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent 
that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The parties expect 
and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably.
23.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
24.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed 
and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San 
Mateo.
25.
Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY.
72 of 763

--- page 73 ---
26.
Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed follows: 
  Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
27.
Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and SUPPLIER and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and SUPPLIER. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
73 of 763

--- page 74 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by the parties 
herein above    named, as of the day and year first above written.
                  SUPPLIER
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
_____________________________________
________________________________________
                 Ken Ward                                                                     Azalea Mitch
                   Chief Financial Officer                                               Public Works Director
                
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
                       ______________________________________
________________________________
                  Amy Vermillion
Linh Nguyen
                  Director of Commercial and 
Assistant City Attorney
                        Industrial Accounts
74 of 763

--- page 75 ---
75 of 763

--- page 76 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco 
 
 
 
 
 
March 16, 2023 
 
Hasa Inc. 
Attn: Christopher Cornish 
23119 Drayton St. 
Saugus, CA 91530 
 
RE: Regional Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 13-
2023 for Supply and Delivery of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5% in the Central Valley, East Bay, 
Marin Sonoma Napa, North Bay, Peninsula, South Bay and Tri Valley regions, and in 275-gal 
totes in the North Bay region and SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5% In Drums to the North Bay 
region. 
 
Dear Mr. Cornish, 
 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Hasa Inc. for Bid No. 13-2023 was 
determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the supply and delivery of SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 
12.5% in the Central Valley, East Bay, Marin Sonoma Napa, North Bay, Peninsula, South Bay and Tri 
Valley regions, and in 275-gal totes in the North Bay region and SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5% In 
Drums to the North Bay region during the period July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024.  
 
The participating BACC Agencies from the above regions should be contacting you shortly to 
discuss entering into contracts with Hasa Inc. for their respective facilities.  
 
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
 
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium  
76 of 763

--- page 77 ---
Bay Area Clean Water Agencies
Bid Results for Project 13-2023 SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%
Bid Due on February 23, 2023  4:00 PM (PDT)
REGIONAL BID AWARD
Section
SODIUM 
HYPOCHLORITE 
12.5% In 275-gal 
totes (Optional bid 
item)
Sodium Hypochlorite 
12.5% In Drums 
(OPTIONAL BID ITEM)
SODIUM 
HYPOCHLORITE 
5.25% (Optional 
bid item)
Description
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma 
Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Tri Valley
North Bay
North Bay
Sacramento
Unit of Measure
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
Olin Corporation
$3.09
$2.89
$2.99
$2.99
$3.05
$2.89
$3.09
$2.99 no bid
no bid
$1.50
Hasa, Inc.
$2.97
$2.85
$2.88
$2.81
$2.91
$2.94
$2.88
$2.69
$4.00
$4.00
$3.50
Section
SODIUM 
HYPOCHLORITE 
12.5% In 275-gal 
totes (Optional bid 
item)
Sodium Hypochlorite 
12.5% In Drums 
(OPTIONAL BID ITEM)
SODIUM 
HYPOCHLORITE 
5.25% (Optional 
bid item)
Description
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma 
Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Tri Valley
North Bay
North Bay
Sacramento
Estimated annual quantity (in gals)
1,401,000
1,963,000
1,084,200
2,173,200
940,000
1,304,400
1,370,000
975,500
2,200
3,960
95,000
Olin Corporation
$4,329,090.00
$5,673,070.00
$3,241,758.00
$6,497,868.00
$2,867,000.00
$3,769,716.00
$4,233,300.00
$2,916,745.00 no bid
no bid
$142,500.00
Hasa, Inc.
$4,156,626.90
$5,598,868.60
$3,126,832.80
$6,096,260.64
$2,736,904.00
$3,830,501.04
$3,951,354.00
$2,626,436.20
$8,800.00
$15,840.00
$332,500.00
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE 12.5%
77 of 763

--- page 78 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR SUPPLY OF SODIUM BISULFITE
FROM UNIVAR SOLUTIONS USA, INC.
JULY 1, 2023 TO JUNE 30, 2024
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this
                 , by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to 
as "CITY", Univar S o l u t i o n s  USA, Inc., a corporation, with offices at 8201 S. 212th, 
Kent, WA 98032, hereinafter referred to as "SUPPLIER".
R E C I T A L S:
(A) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B) A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of goods 
hereinafter described.
(C) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the contract for 
the purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work.
SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described:  SUPPLY OF 
UP TO 200,000 GALLONS OF SODIUM BISULFITE 25% SOLUTION.
2.
Contract Price.  CITY shall pay, the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the 
work above agreed to the sum of $404,517 (four hundred four thousand five hundred 
seventeen dollars and no cents), inclusive of 9.625% sales tax and priced at $1.845 per 
gallon of Sodium Bisulfite 25% solution.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
(BACC) Bid Tabulation for Bid No. 11-2023, Supply and Delivery of Sodium Bisulfite 25% 
Solution, Open Date: January 26, 2023 at 9:00 A.M PDT and shall be paid as described in this 
Contract. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of 
those set forth in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be 
paid for as described in this Agreement.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents: 
This Contract and the BACC Bid Tabulation.
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described in 
the Contract documents.
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called 
for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if 
mentioned in all said documents.  The documents comprising the complete Contract will
78 of 763

--- page 79 ---
hereinafter be referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or 
discrepancy between any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract 
documents, this Contract shall prevail.
4.
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by 
the CITY immediately in the event of
SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 days written notice without cause. 
Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop performance under this Contract as 
directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER shall be paid in accordance 
with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
5.
Schedule. This is a one-year contract and will cover the period between July 1, 
2023 and June 30, 2024.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. The SUPPLIER shall 
furnish the Water Quality Control Plant Manager a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified 
Analysis indicating SODIUM BISULFITE, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and any 
applicable regulatory documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Water Quality Control 
Plant Manager's designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each 
delivery of SODIUM BISULFITE to the City of San Mateo, Water Quality Control Plant, 2050 
Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which 
in any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment 
used by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, 
and all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over 
the same. If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, 
regulation, order or decree, the SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in 
writing. The SUPPLIER shall at all times observe and comply with
79 of 763

--- page 80 ---
all such existing, adopted and amended laws, ordinances, regulations and orders.
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis 
in the event of an emergency or unusual operating condition.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
11.
Time of Delivery.  SODIUM BISULFITE will be furnished F.O.B.  Destination City of 
San Mateo Water Quality Control Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., 
Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). 
Deliveries will be made in 3,000-gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads.
If SUPPLIER is located outside the (650) area code then it is requested to provide a 
toll-free telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order.
Deliveries of SODIUM BISULFITE will generally be prescheduled to provide the 
SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but the 
SUPPLIER must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY’s order within 24 hours, unless the CITY requires delivery within 24 
hours then confirmation must be made within 3 hours. In the event the SUPPLIER fails to 
provide the chemicals within 24 hours or other scheduled delivery timeframe and the CITY 
is forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source all additional CITY cost incurred 
will be made good at the expense of the SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay the costs and charges 
immediately upon demand.
Once order is placed and confirmation received the delivery will be accepted at the 
CITY's Water Quality Control Plant 24-hours per day.
12.
Method of Delivery. Delivery shall be by truck tank car. The SUPPLIER shall 
provide all unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate 
fittings for coupling to the CITY's chemical unloading facilities. The unloading facilities have 
standard flange connections; exact size and types are available upon request. All shipping 
containers used shall conform to I.C.C. regulations.
13.
Rejection.  All shipments of SODIUM BISULFITE will be rejected without the 
following:
a) Bill of Lading
b) Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100% Sodium 
Bisulfite
c) Weighmaster's certificate of weight
d) Applicable regulatory documents
80 of 763

--- page 81 ---
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt 
by the CITY. By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have 
accepted any defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to 
have waived any of the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non- 
conformance. SUPPLIER shall be responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any 
defective goods. Shipping documents and invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
14.
Material Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed M.S.D.S. 
(Material Safety Data Sheet) with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish a completed
M.S.D.S. form will result in rejection of the bid. The CITY has a preference for the M.S.D.S. to 
be submitted in electronic format. The CITY also requires the M.S.D.S. to be sent to the 
receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a hazardous substance. All City, 
State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly adhered to.
15.
Training. SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended 
methods for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include 
any recommended absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and 
recommended tests to be performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the 
neutralization. These instructions will be used by Water Quality Control Plant personnel m 
cleaning up small spills associated with leaks in pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide two (2) classroom sessions annually encompassing a minimum 
of two hours, per session, of classroom instruction at the Water Quality Control Plant concerning 
manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being 
provided by SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the 
transport of Sodium Bisulfite.
16.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, 
CITY shall immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, 
and the sureties shall have the right to take over and perform the Contract,  provided, however, 
that if the sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give 
CITY written notice of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after 
notice to CITY of such election, CITY may take over the work and prosecute the same to 
completion, by contract or by any other method it may deem advisable, for  the account, and at 
the expense of SUPPLIER, and the sureties shall be liable to CITY for any excess cost or 
damages occasioned CITY thereby; and, in such event, CITY may, without liability for so 
doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work or supply of goods, such 
materials, appliances, plant and  other property belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site 
of the work and necessary therefor.
17.
Insurance.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
81 of 763

--- page 82 ---
1.
Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form 
CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products- 
completed operations, personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than
$2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general 
aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the general 
aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2.
Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), 
or if Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 
9), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property 
damage.
3.
Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory 
Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 
per accident for bodily injury or disease.
4.
Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or 
Errors & Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less 
than $2,000,000 per claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy 
period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto 
policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on 
behalf of the SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work 
or operations performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or 
equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage 
can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the SUPPLIER’s insurance (at least as 
broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions 
used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this Contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be 
primary insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement 
District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self- 
insurance maintained by the CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall 
be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
82 of 763

--- page 83 ---
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to 
the CITY.
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer 
of said SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance. SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect 
this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has 
received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the 
CITY. The CITY may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or 
retention or provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations,  claim administration, 
and defense expenses within the retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory 
endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this 
clause. All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before 
work commences or performance of the Contract commences. However, failure to obtain the 
required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to 
provide them. The CITY reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required 
insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
18.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be  new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material 
and workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications 
furnished; in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, 
and free of any liens and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude 
SUPPLIER’s standard warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or 
obtain.
19.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials,  employees,  and   agents  from  and  against   any   and   all  claims,   loss,
83 of 763

--- page 84 ---
liability, damage, and expense arising from performance of this  Contract, including claims, 
loss, liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of 
City of San Mateo or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply  to claims, 
loss, liability, damage or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City 
of San Mateo or Estero Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San 
Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents, against any such claims.
20.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or 
all of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the 
CITY by law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s 
failure or refusal to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any 
shipment or delivery containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or 
replacement at SUPPLIER’s option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) 
cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s 
repudiation of this contract. In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive 
remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for goods 
shipped prior to such breach.
21.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or 
assign any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
22.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and 
in total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a 
cost bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract. 
The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or 
actions. It is the intent that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more 
than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions 
of this Contract. The parties expect and hope there will be no litigation and that  any differences 
will be  resolved amicably.
23.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it 
be submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. 
The mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of a contract, the 
parties shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration 
Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon 
service. The mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be 
deemed the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first 
meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The 
mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until contract 
is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended 
by the parties.
84 of 763

--- page 85 ---
24.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or 
attached thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be 
construed and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the 
County of San Mateo.
25.
Provisions   Cumulative.
The  provisions   of  this  contract   are  cumulative,   and  in 
addition to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY.
26.
Notices.
All notices  shall  be in  writing,  and  delivered  in person  or transmitted by 
certified mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows: 
Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
27.
Interpretation.  As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular 
includes the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
SUPPLIER and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
SUPPLIER.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
85 of 763

--- page 86 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this contract has been duly executed by the parties 
hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above written.
SUPPLIER
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
_____________________________________
________________________________________
Joe Stanaway, Regional Vice President
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
*If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or
2) Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
(if necessary per the above)
______________________________________
________________________________
Shawnasey McCarthy, Municipal
Linh Nguyen,
Commercial Manager
Assistant City Attorney 
86 of 763

--- page 87 ---
87 of 763

--- page 88 ---
88 of 763

--- page 89 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco 
 
 
 
 
March 16, 2023 
 
Univar Solutions USA Inc. 
Attn: Jennifer Perras 
8201 S 212th St. 
Kent, WA 98032 
 
RE: Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 11-2023 for 
Supply and Delivery of SODIUM BISULFITE. 
 
Dear Ms. Perras,  
 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Univar Solutions USA Inc. 
for Bid No. 11-2023 was determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the supply and delivery of 
SODIUM BISULFITE during the period July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024. 
 
The participating BACC Agencies should be contacting you shortly to discuss entering into 
contracts with Univar Solutions USA Inc. for their respective facilities.  
 
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
 
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium  
89 of 763

--- page 90 ---
Bay Area Clean Water Agencies
Bid Results for Project 11-2023 SODIUM BISULFITE
Bid Due on February 23, 2023  4:00 PM (PDT)
SINGLE BID AWARD
Section
Description
East Bay
Marin Sonoma Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Central Valley
East Bay 
Peninsula
Sacramento
Unit of Measure
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
gal
Univar Solutions USA Inc.
1.8450
1.8450
1.8450
1.8450
1.8450
1.8450
3.0450
4.2750
7.9450
2.9450
Sodium Bisulfite 25%
SODIUM BISULFITE 40% Solution
90 of 763

--- page 91 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR SUPPLY O F FERRIC CHLORIDE FROM 
KEMIRA WATER SOLUTIONS, INC.
JULY 1, 2023 TO JUNE 30, 2024
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this
, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as 
"CITY”, Kemira Water Solutions Inc., a corporation, with offices at 4321 W. 6t h Street, 
Lawrence, KS 66049, hereinafter referred to as "SUPPLIER".
RECITALS
(A) CITY has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B) A notice was duly published for bids for the Contract for the purchase of goods 
hereinafter described.
(C) After notice duly given on the date hereof, the CITY awarded the Contract for the 
purchase of goods hereinafter described to SUPPLIER.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF up to 
200 DRY TONS OF 38-42% FERRIC CHLORIDE.
2.
Contract Price. CITY shall pay, a n d  the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the 
work above agreed to, the sum of not to exceed $312,212 (three hundred twelve thousand 
two hundred twelve dollars and no cents), priced at $1,424 per dry ton of 38-42% 
Ferric Chloride, and inclusive of 9.625% sales tax.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in the Bay Area Chemical Consortium 
(BACC) Bid Tabulation for Bid No. 06-2023, Supply and Delivery of Ferric Chloride 38-42%, Open 
Date: January 26, 2023, at 9:00 A.M PDT and shall be paid as described in this Contract. In the 
event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those set forth in 
SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be paid for as 
described in this Agreement.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents: This 
Contract and the BACC Bid Tabulation.
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described in 
the Contract documents.
91 of 763

--- page 92 ---
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for
in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned 
in all said documents. The documents comprising the complete Contract will hereinafter be 
referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or discrepancy between 
any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract documents, this Contract shall 
prevail.
4.
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the 
CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 
days written notice without cause. Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER 
shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
5.
Schedule. This is a one- y e a r Contract and will cover the period between July 1, 2023 
and June 30, 2024.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. SUPPLIER shall furnish 
the Water Quality Control Plant Manager a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified Analysis 
indicating FERRIC CHLORIDE, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and any applicable regulatory 
documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Water Quality Control Plant Manager 
designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each delivery of 
FERIC CHLORIDE to the City of San Mateo, Water Quality Control Plant,
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which in 
any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment used 
by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, and 
all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over the same. 
If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, regulation, order 
or decree, SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing. SUPPLIER shall 
at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended laws, ordinances, 
regulations and orders.
92 of 763

--- page 93 ---
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis in 
the event of an emergency or unusual operating conditions.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
11.
Time of Delivery. FERRIC CHLORIDE will be furnished F.O.B. Destination City of San 
Mateo Water Quality Control Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., 
Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). 
Deliveries will be made in 3,000-gallon minimum and 5,000-gallon maximum loads.
If SUPPLIER is located outside the (650) area code, then it is requested to provide a toll-
f r e e  telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order.
Deliveries of FERRIC CHLORIDE will generally be prescheduled to provide 
SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but SUPPLIER 
must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY's order within 24 hours, unless the CITY requires delivery within 24 
hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours. In the event SUPPLIER fails to 
provide the chemicals within 24 hours or other scheduled delivery timeframe and the CITY is 
forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source all additional CITY cost incurred will 
be made good at the expense of SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay the costs and charges immediately 
upon demand.
Once order is placed and confirmation received the delivery will be accepted at the CITY's 
Wat e r  Q u a l i t y  C o n t r o l  Plant 24-hours per day.
12.
Method of Delivery. Delivery shall be by truck tank car. SUPPLIER shall provide all 
unloading equipment including air padding facilities and hoses with appropriate fittings for coupling 
to the CITY's chemical unloading facilities. The unloading facilities have standard flange 
connections; exact size and types are available upon request. All shipping containers used shall 
conform to I.C.C. regulations.
13.
Rejection. All shipments of FERRIC CHLORIDE will be rejected without the following:
a)
Bill of Lading
b)
Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100%
Ferric Chloride
c)
Weighmaster's certificate of weight
d)
Applicable regulatory documents
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall have
93 of 763

--- page 94 ---
the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY. By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted 
any defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived 
any of the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance. 
SUPPLIER shall be responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods. 
Shipping documents and invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
14.
Material Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed
M.S.D.S.  (Material Safety Data Sheet) with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish 
a completed M.S.D.S. form will result in rejection of the bid. The CITY has a preference for 
the M.S.D.S. to be submitted in electronic format. The CITY also requires the M.S.D.S. to be 
sent to the receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a hazardous substance. 
All City, State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly adhered to.
15.
Training.  SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended 
methods for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include any 
recommended absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and recommended 
tests to be performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the neutralization. These 
instructions will be used by Water Quality Control Plant personnel cleaning up small spills 
associated with leaks in pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide two (2) classroom sessions annually encompassing a minimum of 
two hours, per session, of classroom instruction at the Water Quality Control Plant concerning 
manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being 
provided by SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the 
transport of FERRIC CHLORIDE.
16.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, CITY 
shall immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, and the 
sureties shall have the right to take over and perform the agreement, provided, however, that if 
the sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give CITY written 
notice of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to CITY 
of such election, CITY may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract 
or by any other method it may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of SUPPLIER, 
and the sureties shall be liable to CITY for any excess cost or damages occasioned CITY thereby; 
and, in such event, CITY may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in 
completing the work or supply of goods such materials, appliances, plant and other property 
belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site of the work and necessary therefor.
17.
Insurance.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general
94 of 763

--- page 95 ---
aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
4. Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & 
Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per 
claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for 
liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the SUPPLIER's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the CITY.
95 of 763

--- page 96 ---
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, 
but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CITY. The CITY 
may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A: VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates 
and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before work or performance of 
the contract commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to provide them. The CITY reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
18.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; 
in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens 
and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude SUPPLIER’s standard 
warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
19.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of City of San Mateo 
or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage 
or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of San Mateo or Estero 
Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against 
any such claims.
96 of 763

--- page 97 ---
20.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or all 
of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the CITY by 
law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s failure or refusal 
to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery 
containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at SUPPLIER’s 
option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries 
and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s repudiation of this contract. In the event of the 
CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the 
goods or the purchase price payable for goods shipped prior to such breach.
21.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign 
any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
22.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in 
total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost 
bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The 
above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, 
or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent 
that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The parties expect 
and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably.
23.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
24.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed 
and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San 
Mateo.
25.
Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY.
97 of 763

--- page 98 ---
26.
Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed follows: 
  Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
27.
Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and SUPPLIER and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and SUPPLIER. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
98 of 763

--- page 99 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by the parties 
hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above written.
                  SUPPLIER
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
_____________________________________
________________________________________
                 Christina Imbrogno                                                       Azalea Mitch
                   Commercial Support Manager
                                 Public Works Director
                
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
_____________________________________
________________________________
Gayla Walker 
Linh Nguyen,
Commercial Support Specialist                                 Assistant City Attorney
99 of 763

--- page 100 ---
100 of 763

--- page 101 ---
PO Box 24055, MS 702 • Oakland, CA 94623 •  www.bacwa.org 
Central Contra Costa Sanitary District • East Bay Dischargers Authority • City of San Jose • East Bay Municipal Utility District • City & County of San Francisco 
 
 
 
 
March 16, 2023 
 
Kemira Water Solutions, Inc. 
Attn: Christina Imbrogno 
4321 W. 6th St. 
Lawrence, KS, 66049 
 
RE: Award Contract in Response to Bay Area Chemical Consortium (BACC) Bid No. 06-2023 for 
Supply and Delivery of FERRIC CHLORIDE. 
 
Dear Ms. Imbrogno,  
 
We are pleased to advise you that the bid submitted by Kemira Water Solutions, Inc. 
for Bid No. 06-2023 was determined to be the lowest responsive bid for the supply and delivery of 
FERRIC CHLORIDE during the period July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024. 
 
The participating BACC Agencies should be contacting you shortly to discuss entering into 
contracts with Kemira Water Solutions, Inc. for their respective facilities.  
 
Bay Area Chemical Consortium sincerely appreciates your efforts and participation in the 
competitive bid process.  
 
If you have any questions, please free to contact me at jdyment@bacwa.org 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Jennifer Dyment  
Assistant Executive Director 
BACWA.org 
as Coordinating Agency for the Bay Area Chemical Consortium  
101 of 763

--- page 102 ---
Bay Area Clean Water Agencies
Bid Results for Project 06-2023 FERRIC CHLORIDE
Bid Due on February 23, 2023  4:00 PM (PDT)
SINGLE BID AWARD
Section
Description
Central Valley
East Bay
Marin Sonoma Napa
North Bay
Peninsula
Sacramento
South Bay
Tri Valley
Unit of Measure
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
dry ton
Kemira Water Solutions, Inc
$1,375.00
$1,285.00
$1,498.00
$1,498.00
$1,424.00
$1,491.00
$1,415.00
$1,415.00
FERRIC CHLORIDE
102 of 763

--- page 103 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4671
File ID: 23-7495
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Supply of Liquid Emulsion Polymer – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a contract to SNF Polydyne for the supply of 
liquid emulsion polymer in the amount of $405,613; establish a 10% contingency reserve; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency 
amount.
BACKGROUND:
The wastewater treatment plant (WWTP, officially the Water Quality Control Plant), uses liquid emulsion polymer for 
dewatering biosolids. Polymer use is critical for the dewatering process. The lower the water content in the biosolids, the 
lower the transportation costs associated with disposal hauling. 
The current supplier, SNF Polydyne, has provided a custom-blended polymer that has been tested and optimized for the 
WWTP’s biosolids. Staff recommends the continued use of this same polymer blend, Clarifloc WE-1273 and WE-1728, from 
SNF Polydyne since it performs well and produces the results needed to maintain day-to-day WWTP operations. The 
testing of different polymer blends from other chemical vendors would be a labor-intensive task, requiring additional 
performance optimization testing. San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b) authorizes procurement without 
competitive bidding procedures when calling for bids is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible. A contract with SNF 
Polydyne is appropriate pursuant to these standards since SNF Polydyne is the sole-source provider of its polymer blend, 
Clarifoc WE-1273 and WE-1728, which has shown superior performance results. Therefore, staff recommends Council 
adopt a resolution (Attachment 1) to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and award a contract to SNF Polydyne 
for supplying polymer. 
The contract includes the supply and delivery of 200,000 lbs of the chemical product. 
Contractor
Bid Amount
Contract Amount*
SNF Polydyne
$1.85/lb
$370,000
*Amount does not include 9.625% sales tax, please see recommendation for amount including sales tax.
The unit price quote for SNF Polydyne is $1.85 per pound. The term of the contract is 12 months, and the price is to remain 
firm for the entire period. Including sales tax and tariff, the total cost to the City is approximately $405,613. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds for this agreement in the Fund 72 Sewer Enterprise operating budget for fiscal year 2023-24. 
103 of 763

--- page 104 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – Contract
Att 3 – Polydyne Quote 
Att 4 – Sole Source Letter
STAFF CONTACT
Michael Sutter, Operations Superintendent
msutter@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7376
Robert Learmonth, Plant Manager 
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7386
104 of 763

--- page 105 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO.
(2023)
APPROVING ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR AN 
AGREEMENT WITH SNF POLYDYNE FOR SUPPLY OF LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER
WHEREAS, the Wastewater Treatment Plant, officially known as the Water Quality Control Plant, uses 
Liquid Emulsion Polymer for the dewatering of biosolids; and
WHEREAS, SNF Polydyne provides a custom-blended polymer tested and optimized for the plant’s 
biosolids; and
WHEREAS, SNF Polydyne is a sole source provider of the custom-blended polymer; and
WHEREAS, retesting of polymer blends from other chemical vendors would be a labor-intensive task, 
requiring additional performance optimization testing; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.050 (b) agreements may be awarded without 
competitive bids if calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing or impossible and the City Council sets  
forth findings designating the reasons; and
WHEREAS, City staff recommends approval of the agreement with SNF Polydyne for the supply of Liquid 
Emulsion Polymer; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and
RESOLVES that:
1.
This Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a continuing maintenance activity 
involving the purchase of supplies and a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potential significant physical impact on the 
environment (CEQA Guidelines Sections 15378(b)(2); 15378(b)(4)).
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.050 (b), calling for bids would be impracticable 
because:
a)
A custom-blended polymer has been tested and optimized for the plant’s biosolids;
b)
SNF Polydyne is the only provider of this custom-blended polymer; and
c)
Retesting of different polymer blends would be labor-intensive, requiring additional 
optimization.
3.
The agreement with SNF Polydyne, for the supply of liquid emulsion polymer, in the amount not to 
exceed of $405,613 is approved.
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
submitted, on behalf of the City.
105 of 763

--- page 106 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
PURCHASE CONTRACT
FOR SUPPLY OF POLYMER FROM SNF 
POLYDYNE
JULY 1, 2023 TO JUNE 30, 2024
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (“Agreement” or “Contract”), made and entered 
into this
, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, hereinafter referred to as 
"CITY", S N F  P o l y d y n e , a corporation, with office 1 Chemical Plant Road, Riceboro 
GA 31323, hereinafter referred to as "SUPPLIER".
RECITALS
(A) CITY has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize the purchase of certain goods, 
hereinafter described, and the execution of this Contract.
(B) CITY desires to engage SUPPLIER to provide these liquid emulsion polymers by reason 
of its qualifications and experience and SUPPLIER has offered to provide the required good on the 
terms and in the manner set forth within. 
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. SUPPLIER shall perform the work as described: SUPPLY OF UP TO 
200,000 POUNDS OF LIQUID EMULISION POLYMER.
2.
Contract Price. CITY shall pay, a n d  the SUPPLIER shall accept, in full payment for the 
work above agreed to, the sum of not to exceed $405,613 (four hundred five thousand six 
hundred thirteen dollars and no cents), priced at $1.85 per pound of liquid emulsion 
polymer, and inclusive of 9.625% sales tax and tariff fees.
In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those 
set forth in SUPPLIER's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be 
paid for as described in this Agreement.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete Contract consists of the following documents: This 
Contract, Contract Resolution, and Sole Source Letter.
All rights and obligations of CITY and SUPPLIER are fully set forth and described in 
the Contract documents.
All of the above-named documents are intended to cooperate, so that any work called for
106 of 763

--- page 107 ---
in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned 
in all said documents. The documents comprising the complete Contract will hereinafter be 
referred to as "the Contract documents." In the event of any variation or discrepancy between 
any portion of this Contract and any portion of the other Contract documents, this Contract shall 
prevail.
4.
Termination. This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the 
CITY immediately in the event of SUPPLIER’s default or breach of the Contract and upon 60 
days written notice without cause. Upon receipt of this written notice, SUPPLIER shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY. If the Contract is terminated, SUPPLIER 
shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
5.
Schedule. This is a one- y e a r Contract and will cover the period between July 1, 2023 
and June 30, 2024.
6.
Measurement of Quantities, Material Analysis and Identification. SUPPLIER shall furnish 
the Water Quality Control Plant Manager a legible copy of a Bill of Lading, Certified Analysis 
indicating LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER, Weighmaster's certificate of weight and any 
applicable regulatory documents. Certificates shall be delivered to the Water Quality Control 
Plant Manager' designee at the job site upon delivery and before offloading of the material.
7.
Payment. Shall be made on a thirty (30) day net basis upon receipt of monthly invoices.
8.
General. Except as directed otherwise in these specifications, full compensation for 
completing all of the supplied goods indicated herein is considered to be included in the Contract 
unit prices paid for the various items of work and no separate payment will be made therefore.
9.
Partial and Final Payments. SUPPLIER shall submit individual invoice for each delivery of 
LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER to the City of San Mateo, Wa t e r  Q u a l i t y  C o n t r o l  Plant,
2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA 94404. The invoice shall contain the following information:
a) Purchase order number
b) Date of delivery
c) Item description
d) Cost per gallon and total price
e) Payment terms to include any prompt payment discount offered
f)
All applicable sales tax
10.
General Responsibilities. SUPPLIER shall keep fully informed of all existing, adopted 
and amended federal, state and local laws, ordinances, regulations and orders and decrees which in 
any manner affect those engaged or employed by SUPPLIER in the work, or the equipment used 
by the SUPPLIER, or which in any manner affect the conduct of the work by SUPPLIER, and 
all such orders and decrees of bodies or tribunals having any jurisdiction or authority over the same. 
If any discrepancy or inconsistency is discovered in any such law, ordinance, regulation, order 
or decree, SUPPLIER shall forthwith report the same to the CITY in writing. SUPPLIER shall 
at all times observe and comply with all such existing, adopted and amended laws, ordinances, 
regulations and orders.
107 of 763

--- page 108 ---
SUPPLIER will be required to furnish and update, as necessary, a list of telephone 
numbers and names of responsible parties to be called on a 24-hour, 7 days per week basis in 
the event of an emergency or unusual operating condition.
SUPPLIER assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, 
packing, handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products. No 
charges for transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the SUPPLIER unless so 
specified in this Contract.
11.
Time of Delivery. LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER will be furnished F.O.B. Destination 
City of San Mateo Water Quality Control Plant 2050 Detroit Drive, San Mateo, CA (i.e., 
Seller/SUPPLIER pays freight charges, owns goods in transit and files any damage claims). 
Deliveries will be made in 275-gallon totes. 
If SUPPLIER is located outside the (650) area code, then it is requested to provide a toll-
f r e e  telephone number for placing orders and an email address to be used by the CITY to 
send confirmation of order.
Deliveries of LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER will generally be prescheduled to 
provide SUPPLIER with at least three (3) days’ notice before delivery must be made, but 
SUPPLIER must have the ability after notification to deliver the chemical within 24 hours.
Orders will be placed by phone and confirmed by email. SUPPLIER must email a 
confirmation of the CITY's order within 24 hours, unless the CITY requires delivery within 24 
hours then confirmation must be made within three (3) hours. In the event SUPPLIER fails to 
provide the chemicals within 24 hours or other scheduled delivery timeframe and the CITY is 
forced to obtain the chemical from an alternative source all additional CITY cost incurred will 
be made good at the expense of SUPPLIER, who agrees to pay the costs and charges immediately 
upon demand.
Once order is placed and confirmation received the delivery will be accepted at the CITY's 
Water Quality Control Plant 24-hours per day.
12.
Rejection. All shipments of LIQUID EMULSION POLYMER will be rejected without the 
following:
a)
Bill of Lading
b)
Certified Analysis including Total Reducing Substance (TRS) as 100%
Liquid emulsion polymer
c)
Weighmaster's certificate of weight
d)
Applicable regulatory documents
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped. The CITY shall have
108 of 763

--- page 109 ---
the right to inspect any or all of the goods at SUPPLIER’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY. By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted 
any defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived 
any of the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance. 
SUPPLIER shall be responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods. 
Shipping documents and invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
13.
Material Safety Data Sheet. Each bidder must furnish a copy of a completed
M.S.D.S.  (Material Safety Data Sheet) with its bid and annually thereafter. Failure to furnish 
a completed M.S.D.S. form will result in rejection of the bid. The CITY has a preference for 
the M.S.D.S. to be submitted in electronic format. The CITY also requires the M.S.D.S. to be 
sent to the receiving location if the product supplied is considered to be a hazardous substance. 
All City, State, or Federal requirements for hazardous substances must be strictly adhered to.
14.
Training.  SUPPLIER shall provide written instructions regarding the recommended 
methods for cleaning up the chemicals in the event of spills. Such instructions shall include any 
recommended absorbents or chemicals to be used for neutralization, if applicable, and recommended 
tests to be performed, such as pH, to ascertain the effectiveness of the neutralization. These 
instructions will be used by water quality control plant personnel m cleaning up small spills 
associated with leaks in pumps, valves and other appurtenances.
SUPPLIER shall provide two (2) classroom sessions annually encompassing a minimum of 
two hours, per session, of classroom instruction at the water quality control plant concerning 
manufacture, chemical properties, transport, safe handling and use of the chemicals being 
provided by SUPPLIER. SUPPLIER shall provide for all costs associated with this training.
SUPPLIER will obtain all required federal, state, or local licenses or permits for the 
transport of liquid emulsion polymer.
15.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, CITY 
shall immediately give written notice thereof to SUPPLIER and SUPPLIER's sureties, and the 
sureties shall have the right to take over and perform the agreement, provided, however, that if 
the sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give CITY written 
notice of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to CITY 
of such election, CITY may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract 
or by any other method it may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of SUPPLIER, 
and the sureties shall be liable to CITY for any excess cost or damages occasioned CITY thereby; 
and, in such event, CITY may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in 
completing the work or supply of goods such materials, appliances, plant and other property 
belonging to SUPPLIER as may be on the site of the work and necessary therefor.
16.
Insurance.
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 
12 07 covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general
109 of 763

--- page 110 ---
aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit 
no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.
4. Contractors Pollution Liability and/or Asbestos Pollution Liability and/or Errors & 
Omissions applicable to the work being performed, with a limit no less than $2,000,000 per 
claim or occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate per policy period of one year.
If the SUPPLIER maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the CITY 
requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the SUPPLIER.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on the auto policy for 
liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
SUPPLIER; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the SUPPLIER including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the SUPPLIER's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the SUPPLIER’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City of San Mateo and The Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected 
and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the CITY, 
its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the SUPPLIER’s insurance and 
shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the CITY.
110 of 763

--- page 111 ---
Waiver of Subrogation
SUPPLIER hereby grants to CITY a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
SUPPLIER may acquire against the CITY by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance. 
SUPPLIER agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, 
but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the CITY has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the CITY. The CITY 
may require the SUPPLIER to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A: VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the CITY.
Verification of Coverage
SUPPLIER shall furnish the CITY with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All certificates 
and endorsements are to be received and approved by the CITY before work or performance of 
the contract commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the SUPPLIER’s obligation to provide them. The CITY reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.
17.
Warranties. In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise 
agreed in writing, SUPPLIER warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable 
for use as described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; 
in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens 
and encumbrances. These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude SUPPLIER’s standard 
warranties or other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
18.
Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. SUPPLIER agrees to hold harmless and 
indemnify City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense arising from performance of this Contract, including claims, loss, liability, 
damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused by passive negligence of City of San Mateo 
or Estero Municipal Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents; provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage 
or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of City of San Mateo or Estero 
Municipal Improvement District. SUPPLIER will defend City of San Mateo and Estero Municipal 
Improvement District, their elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, against 
any such claims.
111 of 763

--- page 112 ---
19.
Remedies. In the event of SUPPLIER’s breach of this Contract, CITY may take any or all 
of the following actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the CITY by 
law: (a) require SUPPLIER to repair or replace such goods, and upon SUPPLIER’s failure or refusal 
to do so, repair or replace the same at SUPPLIER’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery 
containing defective or nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at SUPPLIER’s 
option, said return to be made at SUPPLIER’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries 
and treat such breach by SUPPLIER as SUPPLIER’s repudiation of this contract. In the event of the 
CITY’s breach hereunder, SUPPLIER’s exclusive remedy shall be SUPPLIER’s recovery of the 
goods or the purchase price payable for goods shipped prior to such breach.
20.
Assignment. SUPPLIER shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign 
any rights or claims under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
21.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in 
total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs (that is, by the filing of a cost 
bill) by prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The 
above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, 
or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent 
that neither party to this contract shall have to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees 
arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce the provisions of this Contract. The parties expect 
and hope there will be no litigation and that any differences will be resolved amicably.
22.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be 
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The 
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties 
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, 
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The 
mediator shall be selected by a "blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed 
the prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in 
mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation 
process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached 
by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
23.
Governing Law and Venue. This Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed 
and governed by the laws of that state. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San 
Mateo.
24.
Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition 
to and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to CITY.
112 of 763

--- page 113 ---
25.
Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified 
mail, postage prepaid.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed follows: 
  Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to SUPPLIER shall be addressed as appears in the 
signature block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.
26.
Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes 
the plural and vice versa.
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and SUPPLIER and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and SUPPLIER. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
113 of 763

--- page 114 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove 
named, as of the day and year first above written.
                  SUPPLIER
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
_____________________________________
________________________________________
                 Marc Schlag, Vice President
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
*If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or
2) Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall 
sign below
                
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
________________________________
Linh Nguyen,
Assistant City Attorney
114 of 763

--- page 115 ---
115 of 763

--- page 116 ---
polydyne.snf.com
Emailed to: msutter@cityofsanmateo.org
March 3, 2023
Mr. Mike Sutter
WWTP Operations Superintendent/Public Works
City of San Mateo
City of San Mateo WWTP
2500 Detroit Drive
San Mateo, CA 94404
Subject: Price Quote Justification for ClariflocTM Polymers
Dear Mr. Sutter:
Thank you for your business. Polydyne Inc. continues to experience rising costs and tight supplies of key
raw materials and transportation services. We continue to strive to find inexpensive sources for our raw
materials. However, we can no longer absorb these higher costs and meet the strong market demand for
our products. Below is a Federal index that shows the cost of chemicals over the last year is up over 22%.
As you can see, the price increase that we are asking for is far below that of the increase in the Federal
index.
As a result, we must pass a portion of these increases on to you, our valued customer.
The price for the product below will be effective April 1st, 2023 through June 30th, 2024.
PRODUCT
UNIT PRICE
PACKAGE
CLARIFLOCTM WE-1273
$1.85/LB. DELIVERED*
2300 LB. TOTES
CLARIFLOCTM WE-1728
$1.85/LB. DELIVERED*
2300 LB. TOTES
*Applicable taxes will appear as a separate line item on invoices.
Payment Terms: Net 30 days, No Discounts.
Thank you for your business. If you have any questions or need additional information, please contact
Charles Scott, Technical Sales Representative at (360) 931-5566, or Sarah Ben-Yoseph, Technical Service
Representative at (415) 404-2138. Your Customer Service Representative is Alexander Smiley. You can
reach Mr. Smiley by calling (800) 848-7659, Ext. 8731, or by email to asmiley@snf.com.
Best regards,
Sarah Ben-Yoseph
Technical Service Representative
Attachments
SNF Polydyne • 1 Chemical Plant Road • Riceboro, GA 31323 USA • Tel 800.848.7659
116 of 763

--- page 117 ---
2/27/23, 11:31 AM
Bureau of Labor Statistics Data
U.S. BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS
Databases, Tables & Calculators by Subject
Change Output Options:
From: 2019
To: 2023
include annual averages
include graphs
Data extracted on: February 27, 2023 (2:31:20 PM)
PPI Commodity Data
Series Id:
Seasonally Adjusted
Series Title: 
PPI Commodity data for Chemicals and allied products-Basic inorganic chemicals, seasonally adjusted
WPS0613
Group:
Item:
Base Date:
Chemicals and allied products
Basic inorganic chemicals
198200
Download:
Year Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
No Data Available for selected year(s)
Series Id:
WPU0613
Not Seasonally Adjusted
Series Title: 
PPI Commodity data for Chemicals and allied products-Basic inorganic chemicals, not seasonally adjusted
Group:
Item:
Base Date:
Chemicals and allied products
Basic inorganic chemicals
198200
Download:
Year
2019
2020
2021
2022
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
278.2
269.2
Jul
278.0
272.9
Aug
278.7
273.1
Sep
278.9
273.9
Oct
279.5
275.3
Nov
278.1
273.8
Dec
276.6
274.0
281.1
275.1
275.7
282.2
273.7
275.6
283.3
270.1
278.1
281.0
268.3
281.2
279.5
268.0
285.2
288.4 294.680 299.203 300.891
302.271
305.697
311.590
324.211 333.377 337.710 346.553 362.374 367.379 383.504 384.236 388.317 393.998(P) 389.049(P) 389.605(P)
2023 396.694(P)
P : Preliminary. All indexes are subject to monthly revisions up to four months aꢀer original publication.
+22.4
U.S. BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS Postal Square Building 2 Massachusetts Avenue NE Washington, DC 20212-0001
Telephone:1-202-691-5200 Telecommunications Relay Service:7-1-1 www.bls.gov Contact Us
https://data.bls.gov/pdq/SurveyOutputServlet
1/1
117 of 763

--- page 118 ---
3/3/23, 1:34 PM
Bureau of Labor Statistics Data
U.S. BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS
Databases, Tables & Calculators by Subject
Change Output Options:
From: 2019
To: 2022
include annual averages
include graphs
Data extracted on: March 3, 2023 (4:33:37 PM)
PPI Industry Data
Series Id:
PCU32561332561302
Series Title: 
PPI industry data for Surface active agent manufacturing-Surfactants (bulk surface active agents), not seasonally adjusted
Industry:
Product:
Base Date:
Surface active agent manufacturing
Surfactants (bulk surface active agents)
198312
Download:
Year
2019
2020
2021
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
310.1
291.2
Jul
312.6
299.6
Aug
310.9
301.7
Sep
307.3
301.7
Oct
308.3
304.2
Nov
308.6
305.3
Dec
308.7
315.7
323.4
305.9
310.9
321.1
307.6
315.5
315.0
303.9
323.7
312.0
308.0
335.0
312.4
297.3
341.9
353.8 359.995 360.564 365.007
376.993
374.787
379.901
2022 392.992 395.812 395.887 405.440 410.205 409.612 422.643 429.224 417.186 411.247(P) 411.247(P) 420.760(P)
P : Preliminary. All indexes are subject to monthly revisions up to four months aꢀer original publication.
+10.8
U.S. BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS Postal Square Building 2 Massachusetts Avenue NE Washington, DC 20212-0001
Telephone:1-202-691-5200 Telecommunications Relay Service:7-1-1 www.bls.gov Contact Us
https://data.bls.gov/pdq/SurveyOutputServlet
1/1
118 of 763

--- page 119 ---
PPI: General Freight Trucking, Long-Distance Truckload
240.00
YOY Avg. 20.3%
220.00
200.00
180.00
160.00
140.00
120.00
100.00
2021
2022
2023
https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PCU484121484121#0
119 of 763

--- page 120 ---
Raw Materials Price Graph
$0.9000
$0.8000
$0.7000
$0.6000
$0.5000
$0.4000
$0.3000
$0.2000
$0.1000
$-
YOY Avg. +77.5%
YOY Avg. +40.2%
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan
2021 
2022 
2023
Ammonia
Caustic
120 of 763

--- page 121 ---
polydyne.snf.com 
 
 SNF Polydyne • 1 Chemical Plant Road • Riceboro, GA 31323 USA • Tel 800.848.7659 
April 18, 2023 
 
 
Mr. Mike Sutter 
WWTP Operations Superintendent/Public Works 
City of San Mateo 
City of San Mateo WWTP 
2500 Detroit Drive 
San Mateo, CA 94404 
 
SUBJECT:  Sole Source Proposal 
 
Dear Mr. Sutter,  
 
Please accept this letter as Polydyne Inc.’s proposal that we are the sole source manufacturer and 
supplier of the following product supplied to the City of San Mateo: 
 
CLARIFLOC™ WE-1273 
 
A sole source declaration is a frequently used method by which municipal customers can secure the 
purchase of goods that have proven efficacy in their process and cannot be obtain from any other 
source.   
 
The above-named CLARIFLOC™ polymers have a molecular structure, molecular weight, and 
particular raw material components that are unique to Polydyne’s CLARIFLOC™ product line.  
CLARIFLOC™ is Polydyne’s trademark and no other vendor is authorized to supply these products. 
 
For the period of April 1st, 2023 through June 30th, 2024 Polydyne Inc. shall commit to manufacture, 
maintain inventory, and supply the City of San Mateo with CLARIFLOCTM WE-1273, or a similar 
CLARIFLOCTM polymer at the price of $1.85 per pound. 
 
Thank you for your business. If you have any questions or need additional information, please contact 
Charles Scott, Technical Sales Representative, at (360) 931-5566, or Sarah Ben-Yoseph, Technical Service 
Representative, at (415) 404-2138. 
Best regards, 
 
Sarah Ben-Yoseph 
Technical Service Representative  
 
 
 
 
 
121 of 763

--- page 122 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 23-7594
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 5, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Immediate Action Projects, Package III – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 5 to the professional services agreement with HDR Engineering, Inc. to provide engineering 
services during construction for the Wastewater Treatment Plant Immediate Action Projects Package III Project and 
increase the budget by $422,000, for a total amount not to exceed $1,521,495; increase the contingency reserve by an 
amount of $42,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form 
presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program (CWP) includes a variety of capital improvement projects to rehabilitate and upgrade the 
Wastewater Treatment Plant (officially the Water Quality Control Plan). The Wastewater Treatment Plant Immediate 
Action Projects, Package III Project (IAP-III) is a component of the CWP and includes improvements to the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant’s (WWTP) effluent pump station, site waste pump station, and plant-wide mechanical and electrical 
equipment, as well as replacement of effluent flowmeters and sludge heating and recirculation piping. The project is part 
of the CWP’s efforts to modernize the existing WWTP and maintain safe and reliable operations.
IAP-III engineering services were planned to be executed in three phases: Phase 1 - Project Analyses, Phase 2 – Detailed 
Design and Bid Phase Services, and Phase 3 – Engineering Services during Construction. On September 16, 2019, Council 
awarded the professional services agreement to HDR to proceed with Phase 1 activities.  
On November 2, 2020, City Council approved Amendment No. 1 for HDR to complete Phase 2. During Phase 2, the City 
issued two more amendments to include scope for additional improvements and to optimize coordination with the larger 
WWTP Upgrade & Expansion project, which is already under construction. Amendment No. 2 added design services for 
replacement of effluent flowmeters and sludge heating and recirculation piping, which were required for operational 
reliability. Amendment No. 3 resulted in removing a portion of the electrical improvements from the IAP-III scope to be 
transferred into the WWTP Upgrade & Expansion project to mitigate any construction sequencing risks and issues between 
the two projects during construction. Both Amendments No. 2 and 3 were no-cost-increase amendments as HDR 
estimated they can complete the additional scope within the existing contract amount.
In April 2022, the IAP-III Project was advertised for competitive bids, with only a single bid submitted. The bid of 
$19,880,000 was 64 percent higher than HDR’s estimate of $12,131,000. On June 20, 2022, Council adopted a resolution to 
reject the bid and authorize staff to negotiate with the bidder. A contingency-funded Amendment No. 4 was executed for 
HDR to provide support during negotiations, update the design as needed, and to support the bid phase for a second time. 
The negotiations with the bidder ultimately did not meet the City’s goals for a negotiated contract, which resulted in HDR 
supporting the City to revise the contract documents and re-advertise the project. 
122 of 763

--- page 123 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
In February 2023, the revised contract documents were re-advertised for bid with an updated HDR estimate of 
$15,248,000, which had increased from their previous estimate due to market conditions. In April 2023, three bid 
proposals were received with a low bid of $11,344,696, which was approximately 25 percent below HDR’s updated 
estimate. On May 15, 2023, Council awarded the construction contract to the low bidder.
The proposed Amendment No. 5 requests budget and scope for HDR to provide Phase 3 engineering services during 
construction, which includes reviews of submittals and requests for information, site visits, construction meeting support, 
design clarification notices, documentation management, start-up and commissioning, and as-built/record drawings.
HDR submitted an initial proposal to provide engineering services during construction. Staff reviewed and negotiated the 
scope and fee to a level that is reasonable for the scope of work and expertise required. In addition, the negotiated fee 
includes funding to address a fee gap associated with the Phase 2 Detailed Design phase services provided by HDR. Staff 
recommends approving Amendment No. 5 with HDR for a not-to-exceed amount of $422,000 and an increase of $42,000 
to the contingency reserve to address unknown risks or changes needed to complete the work.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The WWTP IAP-III Project (46t010) has sufficient budget available to fund Amendment No. 5. The proposed amendment 
and the prior approved agreement and amendments are summarized in the table below:
Agreement/Amendments
Contingency
Amount
Cumulative 
Total
Added
Balance
Agreement (Project Analyses)
$217,932
$217,932
$22,000
$22,000
Amendment 1 (Detailed Design and Bid Support)
 $801,563 
$1,019,495
$60,000
$82,000
Amendment 2 (Added Design Scope)
$0
$1,019,495
$0
$82,000
Amendment 3 (Electrical Scope Split)
$0
$1,019,495
$0
$82,000
Amendment 4 (Negotiation, Design, and Bid Support)
$80,000
$1,099,495
($80,000)
$2,000
Amendment 5 (Engineering Services during Construction)
$422,000
$1,521,495
$42,000
$44,000
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). Council on June 6, 2016, certified the PEIR. In accordance with 
CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for the implementation of the Clean 
Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 
15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment No. 5
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
123 of 763

--- page 124 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
HDR ENGINEERING, INC. FOR
IMMEDIATE ACTION PROJECTS, PACKAGE 3
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and
HDR ENGINEERING, INC. (“CONSULTANT”), entered into an Agreement for Immediate Action Projects,
Package 3 (“Agreement”) on September 26, 2019; and
WHEREAS, City and CONSULTANT, wish to amend the Agreement to adjust the scope, term, and
payment for professional design services.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
2.
Section 1 – The Scope of the Project is amended to reference Exhibits A, A1, A2, A3, A4 and
A5. Exhibit A5 is attached and incorporated for reference.
Section 7 – Term, Progress and Completion of the Agreement is amended as follows:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall be completed by April 30, 2025.”
3.
4.
Section 8 – Payment of this Agreement is amended to reference Exhibit C, C1, C2, C3, C4 and
C5. The cost and fee of this project shall increase by $422,000 for a not-to-exceed amount of
$1,521,495. Exhibit C5 is attached and incorporated for reference.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and HDR ENGINEERING, INC. have executed this
Amendment on ___________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
HDR ENGINEERING, INC.
______________________________
Azalea Mitch, Public Works Director
___________________________________
Holly Kennedy, Northern California Area Operations Manager
Date: ____________________
Date: ____________________
_____________________________
Linh P. Nguyen, Assistant City Attorney
Date: ____________________
___________________________________
Kip Field, Regional Director of Operations - Southwest
Date: ____________________
1
124 of 763

--- page 125 ---
Exhibit A5
Scope of Services
City of San Mateo Clean Water Program
Immediate Action Project 3 (IAP-3)
Phase 3 - Engineering Services during Construction
The following scope of work involves engineering services during construction for the City of San
Mateo (City) Clean Water Program (CWP) IAP-3 (Project) located at the San Mateo/Estero Municipal
Improvement District (EMID) Wastewater Treatment Plant.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The Project includes the following upgrades and improvements:
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
New pump at Effluent Pump Station 2 (EPS2), including piping from the chlorine contact tanks.
Structural and architectural modifications at the Effluent Pump Station 1 (EPS1) building.
New flow meters between the chlorine contact tanks and EPS1 and EPS2.
New site waste pump station and associated equipment and piping.
HVAC modifications at four existing treatment facilities.
Centrate recirculation system inside the Solids Handling Building.
New electrical gear located in EPS1.
New electrical service to new pumping equipment.
Miscellaneous site work including piping and grading and paving improvements.
Digested sludge recirculation piping replacement.
HDR’s engineering services during construction for IAP-3 are based upon a construction duration of
approximately 22 months. The schedule assumes construction will be completed by January 2025.
The construction schedule is based on two notice to proceeds (NTPs) for the contractor. NTP 1 shall
be for equipment procurement and NTP 2 shall be for the construction activities.
This Amendment also adds a City and HDR negotiated budget to address a fee gap associated with
the previously executed scope of work.
Refer to Exhibit C5 - Estimated Work Effort and Cost for the labor and expenses cost associated
with this scope of services.
23-10194130
4/26/23
Page A-1
125 of 763

--- page 126 ---
Task 4 – Final Design
City and HDR negotiated additional fees to address the budget gap associated with the previously
executed scope of work. This fee addresses design services associated with the new flow meters,
digester piping replacement, and electrical scope splits that were previously added as scope in
Amendments 2 and 3.
Task 7 – Engineering Services During Construction
Subtask 7.1 – Project Management
To provide a single point of communication representing the entire HDR design team, and to provide
continuity from the design team throughout the duration of construction (18 months), HDR will
provide project management services for the duration of the construction phase. Project
management activities include the following:
.
Preparing and submitting monthly progress reports that include a narrative of the work
completed by task, upcoming work, project issues, budget and schedule status, potential scope
or budget changes, and other important information. The project coordinator will assist with
preparing monthly progress reports.
.
Preparing and submitting monthly invoices that document the hours and billing rates for staff for
each task in the work breakdown structure (WBS), as well as overhead, profit, and direct costs.
The current and previous billing period invoicing, as well as a summary of the budget spent,
projected physical percent completed, and remaining cost to complete will be included in the
monthly invoices.
Deliverables:
.
.
Monthly invoices and progress reports in PDF format.
Comments and input on meeting agendas and minutes.
Subtask 7.2 – Meetings
HDR will attend and participate in the following meetings during the construction period.
Preconstruction Meeting
HDR will attend and participate in the preconstruction meeting with the Contractor, CWP,
and City prior to commencement of work at the site. It is assumed that the CWP will lead the
meeting, prepare the required materials, and prepare and distribute meeting minutes. One
HDR team member will attend the two-hour virtual preconstruction meeting.
Deliverables: None.
Bi-Weekly Progress Meetings
HDR will attend and participate in weekly progress meetings during construction. It is
assumed the CWP will lead the meeting, prepare the required materials, and prepare and
distribute meeting minutes.
23-10194130
4/26/23
Page A-2
126 of 763

--- page 127 ---
Follow-up telephone calls with the construction management team may be required to
reconcile requests for information (RFIs) and submittals.
HDR will participate in up to 36 progress meetings when construction activity is taking place
via telephone or virtually via computer. The budget for this task is based on meeting
durations assumed to be one hour, including preparation and follow-up and it is assumed
that meeting materials and notes will be developed by others. Number of meetings based on
1 meeting per month for the first 8 months and biweekly meetings for the last 14 months.
Deliverables: Comments on Owner’s Representative or Contractor-prepared meeting
minutes.
Subtask 7.3 – Site Visits
The following site visits are anticipated:
Periodic Site Visits from Design Team
HDR design team members will make periodic site visits covering work such as structural,
electrical, mechanical equipment placement, instrumentation and control (I&C), site civil, and
other technical disciplines related to key design issues.
For each site visit, HDR team members will take photographs and will prepare a site visit
report that documents the purpose and outcome of the site visit, a punch list of outstanding
issues or items for correction, and ultimately a recommendation as to the pass/failure of the
system/equipment based on the criteria outlined during the site visit.
Assumptions:
.
.
Up to six site visits.
One HDR team member will attend each eight-hour site visit.
Deliverables:
.
Site visit report in PDF format with photos.
Substantial Completion Visit
HDR’s team will make one site visit at the substantial completion project milestone identified
by the CWP and Contractor. CWP will prepare a list of items to be completed or corrected.
HDR’s team will review the list for concurrence, including the I&C system startup punch lists
based on observations during onsite testing. Up to three HDR team members will attend the
eight-hour substantial completion visit.
HDR will take photographs and will prepare a site visit report that documents the purpose
and outcome of the site visit, a punch list of outstanding issues or items for correction, and
ultimately a recommendation as to the pass/failure of the system/equipment based on the
criteria outlined during the site visit.
Deliverables: Site visit report in PDF format.
Expense assumptions for site visits for HDR staff are as follows:
23-10194130
4/26/23
Page A-3
127 of 763

--- page 128 ---
.
.
$150 estimated total cost per trip per person from Walnut Creek, complying with GSA rates for
San Mateo, California. Up to two visits.
$300 estimated total cost per trip per person from Folsom, complying with GSA rates for San
Mateo, California. Up to five visits.
Subtask 7.4 – Technical Submittals
HDR will review the Contractor’s submittals, including shop drawings and operations and
maintenance (O&M) manuals, as required by the technical specifications, for work related to HDR’s
scope of design services. HDR will review and accept the Contractor’s submittals, such as shop
drawings, product data, samples, and other data, for the limited purpose of checking for
conformance with the design concept and the information expressed in the contract documents. This
review will not include review of the accuracy or completeness of details, such as quantities,
dimensions, weights or gauges, fabrication process, construction means or methods, coordination of
the work with other trades, or construction safety precautions, all of which are the sole responsibility
of the Contractor. Review of a specific item will not indicate that HDR has reviewed the entire
assembly of which the item is a component. HDR will not be responsible for any deviations from the
contract documents not brought to the attention of HDR in writing by the Contractor. HDR will not be
required to review partial submissions nor those for which submissions of correlated items have not
been received.
Up to 6 engineering hours are budgeted for each submittal. A 50 percent resubmission rate and up
to 3 engineering hours per resubmittal is also assumed. Up to 10 working days are budgeted to
respond to submittals.
Deliverables:
.
Up to 80 submittals and 40 resubmittals.
Subtask 7.5 –RFIs and Clarifications
HDR will review RFIs received from the Contractor and will evaluate the acceptability of substitute
materials and equipment.
HDR will answer questions and provide written interpretations of the requirements of the contract
documents. Such clarifications and interpretations will be consistent with the intent of, and
reasonably inferable from, the contract drawings and specifications.
Up to four engineering hours are budgeted for each RFI. Up to five working days to respond to RFIs.
Deliverables:
.
Up to 160 RFIs.
Subtask 7.6 – Design Clarifications (DCs)
HDR will provide additional design-related assistance during the construction phase in the form of
DCNs, which may include the following items:

Design of additional wastewater treatment plant facilities or modifications added to the
Project by the City;
23-10194130
4/26/23
Page A-4
128 of 763

--- page 129 ---


Evaluation of potential value engineering or cost reduction ideas proposed by the City, CWP,
or Contractor and their subcontractors; and
Preparation of technical exhibits requested by City, CWP, utilities, or regulatory agencies.
Up to six engineering hours are budgeted per each design clarification notice. Up to 10 DCNs are
budgeted.
Assumption:
.
Edits to the drawings will be in PDF format and edits to the specifications will also be in PDF
format, but will include tracked changes to highlight the changes.
Deliverables: Design drawings, specification modifications/additions, technical memoranda, and
technical exhibits.
Subtask 7.7 – Documentation Management
A document management system (Procore) will be used to manage, track, and store relevant
documents created by the Contractor, CWP, and City. Procore will be used exclusively to document
and transmit submittal reviews, RFI responses, correspondence, inspection and testing reports, and
other project-related documentation.
HDR will receive, internally distribute, track, and return shop drawings, other submittals, and
documents from the Contractor in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Project’s
construction management plan.
Deliverables: Procore data and reports.
Subtask 7.8 - Startup/Commissioning Assistance
HDR will assist the CWP, Contractor, and City in the startup and commissioning of new unit
processes and auxiliary systems. The Contractor shall lead the Startup and Commissioning
development. The CWP will oversee clean water checkout of new unit processes and auxiliary
systems. HDR shall assist with the process portion of the Startup and Commissioning process and
provide close coordination with the Contractor and CWP. Acting as Owner’s Engineer during Startup
and Commissioning, HDR will perform the following tasks:
Startup and Commissioning Plan
o
o
o
o
HDR will communicate expectations to CWP and the Contractor on the structure and
content of the Startup and Commissioning Plan.
HDR will review and comment on drafts of the Startup and Commissioning Plan that are
prepared by CWP and the Contractor.
HDR will provide its approval of the Startup and Commissioning Plan when it meets the
Project’s needs.
HDR will review and approve all modifications to the Startup and Commissioning Plan.
23-10194130
4/26/23
Page A-5
129 of 763

--- page 130 ---
Equipment Commissioning
HDR will monitor progress of activities according to the approved Startup and
Commissioning Plan. It will be the responsibility of CWP and the Contractor to successfully
complete all activities of the equipment commissioning. The Equipment Commissioning
phase will conclude with the successful completion of a System Test, which will loop clean
water throughout all the new assets of the Project. Details of these requirements will be in
the approved Startup and Commissioning Plan.
Processes Covered Under Startup and Commissioning
HDR’s lead designers will support startup at the individual process unit level and at the
facility level to make sure processes work well together. It is assumed that the following unit
processes will be tested, started up, and commissioned:
o
o
o
o
o
EPS2 pumps
Site Waste Pump Station
Centrate Recirculation System
I&C and SCADA System
Electrical Service and Distribution
Expense assumptions for the startup and commissioning assistance are as follows:
.
Per diem per day for lodging, meals, and incidentals, complying with GSA rates for San Mateo,
California ($325/day is assumed in Exhibit C5).
Deliverables:
.
Review comments on the Contractor’s commissioning plan.
Subtask 7.9 – As-Built/Record Drawings
HDR will prepare a set of record drawings showing record information considered significant by HDR
and based on the drawings, shop drawings, and other record documents provided by the Contractor,
and which were annotated by the Contractor’s staff, Contractor’s subcontractors, or suppliers to
show changes made during construction, relative to the issued for construction drawings. HDR will
not be responsible for any errors or omissions in the information provided that is incorporated in the
record drawings or other record documents.
Deliverables:
.
Full-size (22” x 34”) set of drawings in both AutoCAD and PDF formats, after receipt of field
markups from the Contractor.
.
Two half-size (11” x 17”) bound sets of record drawings.
23-10194130
4/26/23
Page A-6
130 of 763

--- page 131 ---
ASSUMPTIONS
The following overall assumptions support the scope of services for engineering services during
construction of the City’s Project.
.
.
.
The City and CWP team will manage all construction change order review and cost estimating
verification. Should the City require construction change order review from HDR, Subtask 3.3
can be utilized for this service (if required).
It is assumed the CWP will provide construction management and daily onsite inspection for all
construction trades and monitor compliance with the contract documents and quality assurance
of the work on the Project.
HDR will not be responsible for the means or methods of the Contractor, nor shall HDR be
responsible for the Contractor’s failure to perform in accordance with the contract documents.
Management of these activities will be the responsibility of the City and the CWP.
.
.
HDR will not be responsible for the monitoring or review of the Contractor’s cost and schedule
performance during construction.
HDR will not be responsible for providing construction contract administration, including
processing of monthly payment requests from the Contractor, Contractor schedule updates and
revisions, providing correspondence to the Contractor, receiving correspondence from the
Contractor, and maintaining correspondence files.
.
.
.
HDR will not be responsible for processing claims and disputes from the Contractor or other
third parties.
Any claims resolution or litigation assistance requested of HDR by the City will constitute
additional services.
HDR will not be responsible for agency or permitting coordination through the construction
phase, which may include, but not be limited to, submission of deferred submittals, agency
inspections, test reports, notifications, or other follow-up correspondence. HDR shall only
provide permitting or agency coordination assistance.
.
.
Stormwater pollution prevention plan monitoring and field work will be provided by others.
The following items are not included in HDR’s scope of services:
o
o
o
o
o
Review of baseline construction schedule and schedule updates
Construction layout and surveying
Traffic control
Site security
Warranty repairs
.
HDR will manage the health, safety, and environmental activities of its staff to achieve
compliance with HDR health and safety requirements.
23-10194130
4/26/23
Page A-7
131 of 763

--- page 132 ---
.
HDR is not responsible for health or safety of the Contractor or its employees, the City, CWP,
and HDR is not responsible for the Contractor’s compliance with the health and safety
requirements in the contract documents, or with federal, state, and local occupational safety and
health laws and regulations.
23-10194130
4/26/23
Page A-8
132 of 763

--- page 133 ---
Exhibit C5
Estimated Work Effort and Cost
23-10194130
4/26/23
Page A-9
133 of 763

--- page 134 ---
Exhibit C5. Estimated Work Effort and Cost
City of San Mateo
Immediate Action Projects, Package 3 (Job No. 46T010) | Phase 3 – Engineering Services During Construction
Task
Principal/ 
Project
Elec
Architect Structural Mechanical 
Project
CADD
Tech
Admin/
Total HDR
Total HDR
Total HDR
Total
No.
Task Description
Subtotal Task 4
QA/QC
Manager
Engr
Engr
Engr
Engr
Clerical Labor Hours 
Labor ($) 
Expenses ($)
Cost ($)
Task 4 - Final Design
4.1 
Final Design
8
20
18
20
66
$13,248
$381
$13,629
0
8
20
0
0
0
18
20
0
66
$13,248
$381
$13,629
Task 7 - ESDC Project Management and Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC)
7.1 
Project Management
7.2 
Meetings
4
64
20
36
54
142
$31,670
$200
$31,870
Preconstruction Meeting
2
2
$585
$1,750
$1,750
$2,335
Bi-Weekly Progress Meetings (Up to 36 meetings)
12
48
$11,824
$13,574
7.3 
Site Visits
Periodic Site Visits (Up to 6)
8
16
8
8
16
8
48
24
$11,617
$5,272
$1,750
$1,750
$13,367
$7,022
Substantial Completion Visit
8
Technical Submittals and Resubmittals (Up to 80
submittals and 40 resubmittals)
7.4
14
24
200
28
24
80
54
200
600
$140,962
$100
$141,062
7.5 
RFIs and Clarifications (Up to 160)
7.6 
Design Clarification Notices (Up to 10)
7.7 
Documentation Management
7.8 
Startup/Commissioning Assistance
7.9 
As-Built/Record Drawings
Subtotal Task 7
12
4
20
8
224
16
60
8
40
4
224
20
604
60
$139,389
$14,927
$10,586
$13,795
$18,595
$399,221
$412,469
$100
$100
$139,489
$15,027
$10,686
$15,195
$18,745
$408,371
$422,000
8
65
4
73
$100
10
8
24
2
24
8
62
$1,400
$150
2
2
90
90
4
116
1,779
1,845
36
36
164
172
490
510
52
52
156
156
108
108
556
574
127
127
$9,150
$9,531
COLUMN TOTALS
110
23-10194130
4/26/2023
HDR Engineering, Inc.
134 of 763

--- page 135 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 23-7448
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 5, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize an appropriation in the amount of $93,948 of Measure A funds to the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure project; amend the agreement with Bellecci & Associates, Inc. for the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure project to increase the agreement amount by $93,948 for a new total not to exceed 
$246,948; increase the contingency amount by $88,255 for new contingency total of $98,255; and authorize the Public 
Works Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The City was awarded $153,000 in funding from the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA) for the Measure 
A/W Pedestrian and Bicycle Program Cycle 5 in December 2020 for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure 
project. In September 2022, the City Council approved an agreement with Bellecci & Associates, Inc. for engineering and 
planning services to assist the City with design for the project. City staff and the consultant team kicked off the project in 
November 2022.
The original project scope included the design of a Class IV separated bike lane and intersection improvements on 28th 
Avenue to transition from the existing bicycle boulevard at Edison Street safely across El Camino Real to the existing Class I 
bicycle facility leading to the Hillsdale Caltrain Station. This project would develop and assess options to improve safety for 
bicyclists and pedestrians crossing at the 28th Avenue/El Camino Real intersection and design a project in alignment with 
the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. 
In February 2023, City staff and the consultant team conducted a walking tour with the Stakeholder Advisory Committee, 
which included the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department, San Mateo Police Department, Caltrans, Caltrain, SamTrans, 
Commute.org, and the Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition (SVBC) San Mateo. Based on the feedback from Committee 
members’ assessment of preliminary design options and bicycle facilities proposed in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, staff 
recommends expanding the scope of this project to include 28th Avenue from the Hillsdale Caltrain Station to East Kyne 
Street. By adding this segment, staff and the consultant team can evaluate options for improving east-west connectivity on 
28th Avenue for bicyclists, pedestrians, and transit users, evaluate implementation of an on-street bicycle facility between 
El Camino Real and East Kyne Street, and analyze signal modifications at the Delaware intersection in addition to the El 
Camino Real intersection to implement a fully connected east-west bikeway on 28th Avenue. The addition of this new 
scope would also increase the success rate for future grant applications to fund the construction of this design since the 
project would create a high-quality transit station by improving safety and providing more mobility options. 
135 of 763

--- page 136 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Staff recommends City Council adopt the resolution to appropriate $93,948 from the City’s Measure A funds and approve 
the amendment increasing the total not-to-exceed amount by $93,948 and increasing the contingency amount by $88,255 
to expand the scope of work for the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure project. The contingency may be 
used to support additional design and engineering services needed to develop the preferred design, which will incorporate 
community feedback.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure (46m004) project does not have sufficient funds available for the 
cost of the amendment. Adoption of the resolution will appropriate $93,948 from the City’s Measure A funds to the 
project, providing funding for this amendment.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Nicolette Chan, Assistant Transportation Planner 
nchan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7326
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
136 of 763

--- page 137 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. 
(2023)
AUTHORIZING AN APPROPRIATION OF $93,948 FROM THE CITY’S MEASURE A FUND TO THE HILLSDALE 
CALTRAIN STATION BICYCLE ACCESS GAP CLOSURE PROJECT
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and Bellecci 
& Associates, Inc. (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for Professional Consultant Services (“Agreement”) 
on October 13, 2022; and 
WHEREAS, the scope of work in the Agreement includes bicycle and pedestrian improvements on 28th 
Avenue from Edison Street to the Hillsdale Caltrain Station; and
WHEREAS, staff wishes to expand the scope of work to include 28th Avenue from the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station to East Kyne Street to improve east-west connectivity on 28th Avenue for bicyclists and pedestrians; and
WHEREAS, the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan proposes a Class II bike lane on 28th Avenue from 
Delaware Street to East Kyne Street to connect to existing on-street bicycle facilities; and
WHEREAS, staff proposes appropriating $93,948 from the City’s Measure A fund to expand the scope of 
work in the Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and RESOLVES
that:
1.
This amendment is not a project as defined by the California Environmental Quality Act in that is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment.
2.
Appropriation of $93,948 in Measure A fund to the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure 
project is approved.
3.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented 
and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
137 of 763

--- page 138 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 1 of 4 
Rev 5/23 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND 
BELLECCI & ASSOCIATES, INC. FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES  
FOR THE 
HILLSDALE CALTRAIN STATION BICYCLE ACCESS GAP CLOSURE PROJECT  
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Bellecci & Associates, Inc. (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for Professional Consultant 
Services (“Agreement”) on October 13, 2022; and  
 
WHEREAS, the scope of work in the Agreement includes bicycle and pedestrian improvements 
on 28th Avenue from Edison Street to the Hillsdale Caltrain Station; and 
 
WHEREAS, City wishes to expand the scope of work to include 28th Avenue from the Hillsdale 
Caltrain Station to East Kyne Street to improve east-west connectivity on 28th Avenue for bicyclists and 
pedestrians; and 
 
WHEREAS, the adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan proposes a Class II bike lane on 28th Avenue 
from Delaware Street to East Kyne Street to connect to existing on-street bicycle facilities; and 
 
WHEREAS, City and Bellecci & Associates, Inc. wish to amend the Agreement to increase the 
total not to exceed amount by $93,948 for a new total of $246,948 and the term of the agreement to 
expand the scope of work in the Agreement. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 4 – Term is amended to read:  
 
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on September 8, 
2022 and be completed on or about June 30, 2024.” 
 
2. 
Section 8 – Payment is amended to read: 
 
“Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon and submission of 
a payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In 
consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees 
to pay CONSULTANT a fee in a not to exceed $246,948, pursuant to rates stated in 
Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference.” 
 
3. 
Exhibits A and B of the Agreement are amended to include additional engineering 
services, public outreach, and project management for the expanded scope of work. 
 
4. The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
138 of 763

--- page 139 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 2 of 4 
Rev 5/23 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and BELLECCI & ASSOCIATES, INC. have executed this 
Agreement on ___________________ [insert date of last signature]. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch                                            Date 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daniel Leary                                                  Date 
Its Authorized Agent 
Vice President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Mazarin Vakharia                                     Date 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
Anoop Reddy Admal                                    Date 
Treasurer 
 
 
 
Attachments 
Exhibit A:  
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B:  
Fee Rates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
139 of 763

--- page 140 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 3 of 4 
Rev 5/23 
Exhibit A: Scope of Services 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
140 of 763

--- page 141 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Scope of Work 
Amendment #1 
May 11, 2023 
 
Page 1 of 4 
 
The following presents CONSULTANT proposed scope and budget to lengthen the project 
extents of the Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project (“Project”). We 
prepared this amendment based on our knowledge of the area as well as conversation with you 
and City of San Mateo staff.  
The original Project extents were 28th Avenue between Edison Street and El Camino Real. The 
following would amend the Project extents to be 28th Avenue from Edison Street to East Kyne 
Street. The Project would be inclusive of the 28th Avenue/Edison and 28th Avenue/East Kyne 
Street.   
This scope amends the Original Task Order Agreement Executed December 7, 2022. 
Scope of Work 
The task numbering used below aligns with the budget items in the “Proposal for: Professional 
Design Engineering Services for Hillsdale Station Bike Access Gap Closure Project” dated 
4/26/2023 – v8. 
Task 7.1 Extend Aerial Image and Focused Topographic Survey from El Camino to E. Kyne 
Street 
Bellecci will download an aerial image to be used for the extension of the preliminary design 
limits of work. Following the completion of the Alternatives design process, Bellecci will 
coordinate with Fehr & Peers and the City to identify select locations within the alignment to 
perform one day of field surveying. 
Task 7.2 Project Management & Meetings 
From the original scope, additional time for managing both the technical and non-technical, 
organizational related administrative work has been included for the extension of the 
preliminary design limits of work. 
Task 7.3: Concept Sketches for Three Alternatives + Public Outreach + Meetings 
Outreach & Engagement Plan 
A draft engagement plan has been developed and commented on by the City as part of the 
original scope of work. Subsequent work in this task consists of Fehr & Peers finalizing 
engagement plan based on staff comments and updating the geographic coverage for 
engagement plan given lengthened extents of the Project. 
Stakeholder Interview/Workshop/Field Walk 
No changes to this subtask. Subtask was completed in February 2023 and City staff confirmed 
no need to revisit. 
Community Meeting/Workshop and Stakeholder Meeting 
141 of 763

--- page 142 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Scope of Work 
Amendment #1 
May 11, 2023 
 
Page 2 of 4 
 
From the original scope, one community meeting/workshop and one virtual stakeholder 
meeting remains to be completed. This amendment includes additional budget for Fehr & Peers 
to support revising the previously produced community meeting advertising materials and 
expanding the extents of the materials for the community meeting itself. This task does not 
include translation of materials nor interpretation at the community meeting or virtual 
stakeholder meeting.  
Website Updates & Coordination 
No changes to this task.  
Commission Meetings 
No changes to this task. 
Data Review 
This task was previously completed for the original Project extents. This task is amended to 
include Fehr & Peers effort to review data and/or information for the lengthened Project 
extents. This task does not include any new data collection. It consists only of reviewing 
available data and/or information (e.g., previous or ongoing studies) related to lengthened 
Project extents. Such data and information is anticipated to include traffic counts, pedestrian or 
bicycle counts, collision data, feasibility studies related to vehicle lane reduction, speed data, 
previous input or comments expressed by community members and any other similar 
information the City is able to provide. 
Develop & Evaluate Alternatives 
This task is amended to include effort for Fehr & Peers to develop up to three alternatives for 
the lengthened Project extents. The concepts will be refined versions of those previously 
developed under the original agreement.  Fehr & Peers will evaluate alternatives qualitatively 
using the information provided under the Data Review activity above. The three alternatives 
and qualitative evaluation will be the information brought to the community meeting for 
discussion and input. At the end of the Alternatives phase, Fehr & Peers will provide a CAD-
based drawing over scaled aerial imaging to Bellecci, at a 15% design level, showing the edge of 
the bicycle facilities, transitions, materials hatched and other layout features. Bellecci will be 
responsible for further developing the layout exhibit to identify the extent of the demolition 
and civil engineering improvements. 
Task 7.4 Preferred Alternative Layout 
Bellecci will further develop the CAD project layout from Fehr & Peers, to prepare the geometric 
layout of the bikeway improvements. Included in this task will be to prepare a one page 
explanation of three options for a vertical buffer between the bikeway and the vehicular traffic. 
Buffer options may include a) precast islands, b) vertical flex posts or traffic calming bollards, c) 
cast-in-place median island with pavers or landscape. 
142 of 763

--- page 143 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Scope of Work 
Amendment #1 
May 11, 2023 
 
Page 3 of 4 
 
Task 7.5 65%, 95%, and 100% Civil at Bikeway Ramps at Undercrossing to correct Stairs and 
Ramps 
Bellecci will prepare 65%, 95% and 100% improvement plans sheet for two undercrossing 
connections from the bikeway to the existing sidewalk. The plan sheet will include multiple 
viewports focused on the bikeway connection ramp locations. Each location will have two 
viewports on the plan sheet to depict the demolition and improvements for the bikeway entry 
ramp. New concrete slopes will also be provided. The fee estimate does not anticipate new 
storm drains or changes in the overall curb alignment. For more extensive civil engineering 
improvements, the Consultant will proceed up the approval of the optional service 8.1. 
Task 7.6 65%, 95%, and 100% Signing and Striping Plans 
This task consists of Fehr & Peers preparing 65%, 95% and 100% signing and striping plans, 
assumes up to four sheets, for the preferred alternative extending on 28th Avenue from El 
Camino Real to East Kyne Street. This task assumes Bellecci & Associates will produce and 
provide base files, establish templates for plan sheets, and assumes use of City of San Mateo 
standards. The signing and striping plans will include the inventory of the existing signs in 
coordination with the new signs to be installed.  
Task 7.7 Video Detection for Bikes and Vehicles at Up to Two Intersections 
For up to two existing signalized intersections, Fehr & Peers will prepare one plan sheet  
showing the location, mounting, installation and details/specifications for new bicycle and 
vehicle video detection. This will be based on as-built plans provided by the City of San Mateo.  
Modifications will be shown on a Fehr & Peers stamped drawing.  
Optional Services 
Task 8.1 Civil Engineering for Sidewalk Level Bikeway + Transit Bus Bulb (at undercrossing) 
The budget spreadsheet includes an optional services budget to prepare civil engineering plans 
for more extensive sidewalk modifications at the undercrossing location. If the preliminary 
design process results in a sidewalk level bikeway, Bellecci will prepare civil engineering 
drawings to provide demolition plans, improvements plans and grading plans at the 
undercrossing portion. It is assumed the curb alignment will remain unchanged, and new 
bioretention will not be required, rather the sidewalk will include design for a vertical or tactile 
separation between the pedestrians and bicycles. The design will also address the bicycle and 
pedestrian connections to the Caltrans station ramps at the back of walk, and also program 
space for pedestrians waiting at the bus stop.  
Task 8.2 65%, 95% and 100% Replacement of Two Signal Poles at 28th/Delaware 
Fehr & Peers will prepare a separate plan sheets titled “Traffic Signal Modifications” to be 
prepared per industry standards for traffic signal plans; including pole schedule, conduits, boxes, 
vehicle heads, pedestrian signals, push buttons and other improvements and signal 
143 of 763

--- page 144 ---
Hillsdale Caltrain Station Bicycle Access Gap Closure Project 
Scope of Work 
Amendment #1 
May 11, 2023 
 
Page 4 of 4 
 
modifications necessary for the traffic Signal Modifications plans. The sheets will be based on 
as-built plans for the 28th/Delaware intersection provided by the City of San Mateo.  
Task 8.3 65%, 95% and 100% Replacement of Four Signal Poles at 28th/Delaware 
Fehr & Peers will prepare a separate plan sheets titled “Traffic Signal Modifications” to be 
prepared per industry standards for traffic signal plans; including pole schedule, conduits, boxes, 
vehicle heads, pedestrian signals, push buttons and other improvements and signal 
modifications necessary for the traffic Signal Modifications plans. The sheets will be based on 
as-built plans for the 28th/Delaware intersection provided by the City of San Mateo.  
 
144 of 763

--- page 145 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 4 of 4 
Rev 5/23 
Exhibit B: Fee Rates 
145 of 763

--- page 146 ---
Proposal for: Professional Design Engineering Services for Hillsdale Station Bike Access Gap Closure Project
Mark Ups
ODCs
Total
$270.00 
$228.00 
$190.00 
$180.00 
$168.00 
$150.00 
$95.00 
$170.00 
$228.00 
$312.00 
LS Fee
LS Fee
Extend Aerial Image Mapping and Focused Topographic Survey from El Camino to Kyne
4
6
3
8
21
$4,580
$500
$50
$5,130
Project Management & Meetings
4
8
12
24
$5,064
$0
$300
$5,364
Concept Sketches for Three Alternatives  + Public Outreach + Meetings
$18,000
$1,800
$800
$20,600
Layout of preferred Alternative - including bike buffer options for vertical separation
1
6
30
37
$7,038
$0
$7,038
65%,  95%, and 100% Civil at Bikeway Ramps at Undercrossing to connect Stairs and Ramps 
(layout + demo + improvement + grading)
2
4
8
20
48
56
138
$23,036
$0
$23,036
65%, 95%, and 100% Signing and Striping Plans
0
$0
$19,000
$1,900
$20,900
65%, 95%, and 100% Video detection for bikes and vehicles at two intersections
0
$0
$10,800
$1,080
$11,880
7
18
8
62
48
56
4
6
3
8
220
$39,718
$47,800
$500
$4,830
$1,100
$93,948
$47,800
Green Tasks are by Fehr & Peers
$39,718
Blue Tasks are by Bellecci
$6,430
$93,948
Civil engineering for Sidewalk Level Bikeway + Transit Bus Bulb (at undercrossing)
4.5
14.5
22
22
118
118
0
0
0
0
299
$50,185
$500
$50
$50,735
65%, 95%, and 100% Replace two signal poles at 28th & Delaware
0
$0
$25,920
$2,592
$28,512
65%, 95%, and 100% Replace four signal poles at 28th & Delaware (added to 8.2)
0
$17,280
$1,728
$19,008
$192,203.00
City of San Mateo, CA
Prin
Sen Proj 
Mnger
Prof. 
Eng I 
Proj. 
Eng 
(DE III)
Sub Mark Up
Total Fee
Other 
Direct 
Costs
Total  
Hours
Total Labor 
Costs
05/11/2023 - v9
Union 
Survey 
Crew
Aerial
Fehr and 
Peers (Traffic 
Engineer)
7.6
Additional Services Proposed Budget
Optional Services for Added Improvements
7.2
7.7
7.4
Fehr & Peers
7.3
7.5
8.1
Basic Service Subtotal
8.3
8.2
7.1
Bellecci
Sub Mark-up + Aerial
Additional Service - Design for extended segment
Design 
Eng
Eng 
Intern
Land 
Surv
 Assist 
Eng
Survey 
Tech
Task Description 
Task
 #
146 of 763

--- page 147 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4663
File ID: 23-7504
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
California Transportation Commission Local Streets and Roads – Project List Fiscal Year 2023-24
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to submit a list of projects proposed to be funded with the Road Repair and Rehabilitation Account, 
Senate Bill 1 funding, to the California Transportation Commission for fiscal year 2023-24.
BACKGROUND:
On April 28, 2017, the Governor signed Senate Bill 1 (SB1), which is known as the Road Repair and Accountability Act of 
2017, to address basic road maintenance, rehabilitation, and critical safety needs on both the state highway and local 
streets and road system. SB1 increased per-gallon fuel excise taxes, diesel fuel sales taxes, and vehicle registration fees and 
provided for inflationary adjustments to tax rates in future years.
Beginning November 1, 2017, the State Controller deposited various portions of this new funding into the newly created 
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account (RMRA). A percentage of this RMRA funding has been apportioned by 
formula to eligible cities and counties pursuant to Streets and Highways Code Section 2032(h) for road maintenance, 
rehabilitation, and critical safety projects on the local streets and road system. 
Prior to receiving an apportionment of RMRA funds from the State Controller in a fiscal year, a local agency must apply to 
the California Transportation Commission (CTC), by July 1st of each year and provide a list of projects proposed to be 
constructed with these funds through a Council resolution. The estimated amount of the apportionment projected by the 
League of California Cities for fiscal year 2023-24 is approximately $2,614,190 and is subject to fluctuations in actual tax 
and fee revenues. 
Public Works staff is proposing the Smooth Streets Phase 4 project that will rehabilitate or reconstruct street segments 
that are in poor or failed condition. The project has been advertised and three (3) bids for the project were received on 
April 27, 2023. Construction is estimated to begin in August 2023 and be completed by June 2024. 
Staff recommends applying for RMRA fund apportionment for fiscal year 2023-24 for the Smooth Streets Phase 4 project, 
which includes the street segments listed below: 
Street
From
To
30th Avenue
Monterey Street
Fernwood Street
Cypress Avenue
Norfolk Street
Quebec Street
Dakota Avenue
Patricia Avenue
Rand Street
West Grant Place 
Grant Street
Grant Street
East Grant Place 
Grant Street
Grant Street
147 of 763

--- page 148 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Harvard Road
Seville Way
End
Hemlock Avenue
Norfolk Street
Shoreview Avenue
Hemlock Avenue
Patricia Avenue
Norfolk Street
Jody Court
Edna Way
End
Kingridge Drive
Fernwood Street
141' N of Dalehurst Avenue
Lansdale Street
30th Avenue
31st Avenue
Mefferd Avenue
Kingston Street
Huron Avenue
Ontario Street
Cypress Avenue
2nd Avenue
Peck Avenue
St. Timothy's 
Ryder Street
Prague Street
Trollman Avenue
Monte Diablo Avenue
Prague Street
Monte Diablo Avenue
York Avenue
Rand Street
Newbridge Avenue
Dakota Avenue
Ryder Street
Dolan Avenue
End
Sharon Place
Norfolk Street
Ontario Street
Stephen Road
Hillsdale Boulevard
Alameda de las Pulgas
Vanessa Drive
Eleanor Drive
Wolfe Drive
Upon City Council approval of the project list, staff will submit the Council resolution to the CTC as required and apply for 
funding. If funding is granted, funds will be provided to the City on a monthly basis up to the City’s final apportionment 
amount. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
According to the most recently available revenue estimates by the California League of Cities, the City of San Mateo is 
anticipated to receive an estimated amount of $2,614,190 from the RMRA for fiscal year 2023-24 toward street 
rehabilitation/reconstruction. These estimated allocations are appropriate for budgeting purposes but are subject to 
change when the Department of Finance releases updated revenue estimates with the Governor’s revision to the 
proposed State budget. As noted previously, actual revenues may vary based on total taxes and fees collected.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action to adopt a resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Elton Yee, Associate Engineer
eyee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7320
Jimmy Vo, Senior Engineer
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7319
148 of 763

--- page 149 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO._______
ADOPTING A LIST OF PROJECTS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023-24 FUNDED BY 
SB 1: THE ROAD REPAIR AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2017
WHEREAS, Senate Bill 1 (SB 1), the Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017 (Chapter 5, 
Statutes of 2017) was passed by the Legislature and Signed into law by the Governor in April 2017 to 
address the significant multi-modal transportation funding shortfalls statewide; and 
WHEREAS, SB 1 includes accountability and transparency provisions that will ensure the 
residents of our City are aware of the projects proposed for funding in our community and which 
projects have been completed each fiscal year; and
WHEREAS, the City must adopt by resolution a list of projects proposed to receive fiscal year 
funding from the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account (RMRA), created by SB 1, which must 
include a description and the location of each proposed project, a proposed schedule for the project’s 
completion, and the estimated useful life of the improvement; and
WHEREAS, the City will receive an estimated $2.61 million in RMRA funding in Fiscal Year    
2023-24 from SB 1; and
WHEREAS, this is the 7th year in which the City is receiving SB 1 funding which will enable the 
City to continue essential road maintenance and rehabilitation projects, safety improvements, repairing 
and replacing aging bridges, and increasing access and mobility options for the traveling public that 
would not have otherwise been possible without SB 1; and 
WHEREAS,  the City used a Pavement Management System to develop the SB 1 project list to 
ensure revenues are being used on the most high-priority and cost-effective projects that also meet the 
communities priorities for transportation investment; and 
WHEREAS, the proposed project list is part of the City’s Smooth Street Program which is 
endorsed by the San Mateo City Council through public process; and
WHEREAS, the funding from SB 1 will help the City maintain, rehabilitate, and reconstruct 
nineteen (19) roadway segments currently in poor or failed condition throughout the City this year; and
WHEREAS, the 2018 California Statewide Local Streets and Roads Needs Assessment found the 
City of San Mateo’s overall streets and roads are in a good condition, however some of the street 
segments in poor condition have not been addressed and this revenue will help us increase the overall 
quality of our entire road system over the next decade and bring our overall streets and roads into a 
better condition; and 
149 of 763

--- page 150 ---
WHEREAS, the SB 1 project list and overall investment in our local streets and roads 
infrastructure with a focus on basic maintenance and safety, investing in complete streets 
infrastructure, and using cutting-edge technology, materials and practices, will have significant positive 
co-benefits statewide; and
WHEREAS, the City affirms its commitment that the apportionments received will be used and 
reported on as required by statute and the Commission’s adopted program guidelines.
NOW, THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, ORDERED AND FOUND by the City Council of the City of San 
Mateo, State of California, as follows:
1. 
The foregoing recitals are true and correct.
2. 
The following previously proposed and adopted project may also utilize Fiscal Year 2023-24 
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account revenues in their delivery. With the relisting of 
these projects in the adopted fiscal year resolution, the City is reaffirming to the public and the 
State our intent to fund these projects with Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account 
revenues:
Project Title: Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 4 
Project Description: Project work includes milling of pavement surface or removal of asphalt 
concrete and base, overlaying asphalt concrete or placement of asphalt concrete and base, 
upgrading curb access ramps, installation of pavement markings and striping and other 
incidental work.
Project Location: The following locations identified are subject to be changed:
Street
From
To
30th Avenue
Monterey Street
Fernwood Street
Cypress Avenue
Norfolk Street
Quebec Street
Dakota Avenue
Patricia Avenue
Rand St
West Grant Place 
Grant Street
Grant Street
East Grant Place 
Grant Street
Grant Street
Harvard Road
Seville Way
End
Hemlock Avenue
Norfolk Street
Shoreview Avenue
Hemlock Avenue
Patricia Avenue
Norfolk Street
Jody Court
Edna Way
End
Kingridge Drive
Fernwood Street
141' N of Dalehurst Ave
Lansdale Street
30th Avenue
31st Avenue
Mefferd Avenue
Kingston Street
Huron Avenue
Ontario Street
Cypress Avenue
2nd Avenue
150 of 763

--- page 151 ---
Peck Avenue
St. Timothy's 
Ryder Street
Prague Street
Trollman Avenue
Monte Diablo Avenue
Prague Street
Monte Diablo Avenue
York Avenue
Rand Street
Newbridge Avenue
Dakota Avenue
Ryder Street
Dolan Avenue
End
Sharon Place
Norfolk Street
Ontario Street
Stephen Road
Hillsdale Boulevard
Alameda de las Pulgas
Vanessa Drive
Eleanor Drive
Wolfe Drive
Estimated Project Schedule: The Project has been advertised and three (3) bids for the project 
were received on April 27, 2023. Construction estimated to begin in August 2023 and be 
completed by June 2024.  
Estimated Project Useful Life: The estimated useful life of the Project is average 20 years.
RESOLUTION NO. ____ PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, 
California, at a regular meeting held on this _______ day of _______, 2023, by the following vote: 
151 of 763

--- page 152 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4663
File ID: 23-7509
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
On-Call Professional Consultant Services – Amendments
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 to extend the term of individual on-call professional consultant services agreements for no 
additional cost with Wilsey Ham, HDR Engineering, Inc., and Bellecci & Associates until December 31, 2025; and authorize 
the Public Works Director to execute future no-cost amendments.
BACKGROUND:
In October 2018, Public Works staff issued a request for proposals (RFP) to select qualified firms to provide on-call 
professional consulting services. The City received proposals from thirteen (13) firms and evaluated the proposals based 
on the consultant’s project understanding, experience with similar projects, project manager experience, and technical 
ability. Staff short-listed three firms and conducted in-person interviews with each project team. The on-call engineering 
consulting firms selected by staff were Wilsey Ham, Inc., WRECO, Inc., and Bellecci & Associates, Inc. (collectively 
"consultants”). 
On February 19, 2019, Council authorized Public Works to enter into an agreement with each consultant for on-call 
professional consulting services not to exceed $250,000. HDR Engineering, Inc. acquired WRECO and assumed WRECO’s 
agreement, effective July 31, 2021. On March 21, 2022, Council approved Amendment No. 1 to extend the term of each of 
the on-call professional consultant services agreements for no additional costs through June 30, 2023. 
The three consultants have been responsive to staff in providing the desired engineering expertise for capital 
improvement projects. There is remaining budget in the agreements and staff has determined that the consultants’ 
services are still needed to assist the City with the implementation of capital improvement projects. Amendment No. 2 for 
each of the three agreements will extend the term through December 31, 2025 at no additional increase in budget.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Each amendment extends the agreement term at no additional cost and does not have a budgetary impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This approval of no-cost agreements extensions is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
152 of 763

--- page 153 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 2 – Wilsey Ham, Inc.
Att 2 – Amendment No. 2 – HDR Engineering, Inc.
Att 3 – Amendment No. 2 – Bellecci & Associates, Inc.
STAFF CONTACT
Tina Pham, Senior Engineer
tpham@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7305
153 of 763

--- page 154 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Rev 9/17 
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND WILSEY HAM  
FOR ON-CALL PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES  
FOR VARIOUS CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Wilsey Ham, a California corporation (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for On-Call 
Professional Consultant Services for Various Capital Improvement Projects (“Agreement”) on April 1, 
2019 and executed Amendment No. 1 on March 29, 2022; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective __________________ 
to extend the term of services as described. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. 
Section 7 - Term, Progress and Completion of the Agreement is amended to read: 
 
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 1, 2019 
and be completed on or about December 31, 2025.  This term of this Agreement may be 
extended by written amendment executed by the Director of Public Works and a duly 
authorized representative of Consultant. 
 
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement. CONSULTANT 
agrees to perform the services within the time limits set forth in each task order.  CITY 
agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT'S 
timetable.” 
 
 
2. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
154 of 763

--- page 155 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 2 of 2 
Rev 9/17 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Wilsey Ham executed this Agreement on 
______________________. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brandon Davis 
Its authorized Agent 
Executive Vice President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jeff Wong 
Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
155 of 763

--- page 156 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Rev 9/17 
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND WRECO (HDR ENGINEERING) 
FOR ON-CALL PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES  
FOR VARIOUS CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
WRECO, a California corporation, entered into an Agreement for On-Call Professional Consultant 
Services for Various Capital Improvement Projects (“Agreement”) on April 1, 2019 and executed 
Amendment No. 1 on April 4, 2022; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, HDR Engineering, Inc., a corporation, with offices at 1243 Alpine Road, Suite 108, 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 hereinafter referred to as "Consultant" acquired WRECO, and assumed the 
agreement, effective July 31, 2021.  
 
 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective __________________ 
to extend the term of services as described. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. 
Section 7 - Term, Progress and Completion of the Agreement is amended to read: 
 
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 1, 2019 
and be completed on or about December 31, 2025.  This term of this Agreement may be 
extended by written amendment executed by the Director of Public Works and a duly 
authorized representative of Consultant. 
 
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement. CONSULTANT 
agrees to perform the services within the time limits set forth in each task order.  CITY 
agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT'S 
timetable.” 
 
 
2. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
156 of 763

--- page 157 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 2 of 2 
Rev 9/17 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and HDR Engineering Inc. executed this Agreement on 
______________________. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Han‐Bin Liang, PhD 
Vice President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Holly Kennedy 
Northern California Area Operations Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
157 of 763

--- page 158 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 1 of 2 
Rev 9/17 
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BELLECCI & ASSOCIATES  
FOR ON-CALL PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES  
FOR VARIOUS CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Bellecci & Associates, a California corporation (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for On-Call 
Professional Consultant Services for Various Capital Improvement Projects (“Agreement”) on April 18, 
2019 and executed Amendment No. 1 on March 29, 2022; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective __________________ 
to extend the term of services as described. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
 
1. 
Section 7 - Term, Progress and Completion of the Agreement is amended to read: 
 
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 18, 2019 
and be completed on or about December 31, 2025.  This term of this Agreement may be 
extended by written amendment executed by the Director of Public Works and a duly 
authorized representative of Consultant. 
 
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement. CONSULTANT 
agrees to perform the services within the time limits set forth in each task order.  CITY 
agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT'S 
timetable.” 
 
 
2. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
158 of 763

--- page 159 ---
Contract Amendment 
 
 
Page 2 of 2 
Rev 9/17 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Bellecci & Associates executed this Agreement on 
______________________. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frank Bellecci 
Its authorized Agent 
President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name 
 
 
 
 
 
Title 
 
 
 
 
 
 
159 of 763

--- page 160 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4663
File ID: 23-7510
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 4 – Agreement and Budget Transfer
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize a budget transfer from Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 1 to Citywide Street 
Reconstruction Package 3 in the amount of $410,000; affirm a requested bid relief from Ghilotti Bros, Inc.; approve an 
agreement with McGuire and Hester for the Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 4 Project in the amount of $6,259,358; 
establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $630,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 4 Project (Project) is part of the Public Works Smooth Streets Program 
(Program), and a component of the Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 3 Project. The Project will repair 
approximately 3.2 miles of streets across 19 locations with an engineer’s estimate for the project of $6,150,000. Project 
locations are shown in the attached location map (Attachment 3). 
Due to the complex nature of the remaining street segments of the Program, the City issued a Request for Qualifications to 
pre-qualify contractors for the remaining phases of the Program in August 2021 and again in February 2023. In order to be 
on the pre-qualification list, contractors needed to show that they have experience with soft/compressible soils and bay 
mud, subgrade stabilization methods, ability to place significant asphalt tonnage in one project, and experience working on 
residential roads. They also needed to certify that they have the typical contracting requirements for a public works 
project and a good safety record. During this process, the City pre-qualified four (4) contractors. Implementing a pre-
qualification list for the Program ensures the contractor that is awarded a particular phase of the Program has the 
experience and capability to execute the work efficiently with minimal impacts to the community.  
The project was advertised March 2, 2023, and a total of three (3) bids were received from the four (4) pre-qualified 
contractors and opened on April 27, 2023. The bids received are listed below in order of increasing bid amount.
Company Name
Total Bid Amount
Ghilotti Bros., Inc.
$5,787,447
McGuire and Hester
$6,259,358
DeSilva Gates Construction LLC
$7,308,308
On May 4, 2023, Ghilotti Bros., Inc. submitted a letter requesting bid relief and withdrawal of its bid in accordance with 
Public Contract Code Section 5100 et al. due to clerical errors that made the bid materially different than what was 
intended. Staff reviewed the requested bid relief, deemed the request satisfactory, approved Ghilotti Bros., Inc.’s request 
for bid relief, and recommends for Council to affirm staff’s approval of the requested bid relief.
160 of 763

--- page 161 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
After review of second lowest bid, staff determined that McGuire and Hester is the lowest responsive, responsible bidder. 
The engineer’s estimate for this project is $6,149,358, which is within 2% of McGuire and Hester’s bid price and is 
reasonable. Therefore, staff recommends McGuire and Hester be awarded this construction agreement.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Currently, there is an estimated available project account balance of $6,550,000 in the Citywide Street Reconstruction 
Package 3 (#467773). The proposed resolution would authorize a transfer of $410,000 from Citywide Street Reconstruction 
Package 1 (#467771) to Package 3 (#467773), providing sufficient funds to award this agreement and fund the contingency 
reserve. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
Att 3 – Location Map
STAFF CONTACT
Elton Yee, Associate Engineer
eyee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7320
161 of 763

--- page 162 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
AUTHORIZING A BUDGET TRANSFER IN THE AMOUNT OF $410,000 FROM THE CITYWIDE STREET 
RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 1 PROJECT TO THE CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 3 PROJECT 
WHEREAS, the City Council considers mid-year budget balancing through adjustments, appropriations, 
designations and transfers to adjust the current-year budget to meet anticipated changes in departmental 
budgetary needs; and
WHEREAS, a budget transfer and appropriation is necessary to accomplish the City’s day-to-day business 
to support its goals and programs and to provide for anticipated additional expenditures; and
WHEREAS, Citywide Street Reconstruction Packages 1 and 3 are part of the City’s Smooth Streets 
Program; and
WHEREAS, Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 4 is a component of Citywide Street Reconstruction 
Package 3; and 
WHEREAS, the Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 3 Project does not have enough remaining 
available budget to cover the estimated $6,900,000 in funding needed for Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 
4; and
WHEREAS, $410,000 in remaining budget funds are available in the Citywide Street Reconstruction 
Package 1 Project; and
WHEREAS, Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 1 Project has been completed; and
WHEREAS, the City desires to transfer $410,000 in available budget fund from Citywide Street 
Reconstruction Package 1 Project to the Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 3 Project.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, RESOLVES that:
1.
This City Council action is categorically exempt from CEQA review because it involves funding the 
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing or minor alternation of existing public 
or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical facilities involving negligible 
or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
2.
Amendments to the 2022-2023 Budget are approved, and transfers are authorized, as follows:
a.
A transfer totaling $410,000 from the Capital Project Fund from the Citywide Reconstruction 
Package 1 Project (467771) to the Capital Project Fund for the Citywide Reconstruction Package 
3 Project (467773) is approved.
162 of 763

--- page 163 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

AGREEMENT WITH MCGUIRE AND HESTER
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
FOR
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PHASE 4
CITY PROJECT NO. 467771-46000-0007-43650

THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the
City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN
MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called
"City") and MCGUIRE AND HESTER, a corporation, with offices at 2810 Harbor Bay Parkway, Alameda
CA 94502 (hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of

RECITALS:

(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and
improvements or other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement.

(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter
described.

(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the
construction of the improvements hereinafter described to Contractor.

IT IS AGREED, as follows:

1. Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled:
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PHASE 4
CITY PROJECT NO. 467771-46000-0007-43650

2. Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of six million two hundred
fifty-nine thousand three hundred fifty-eight dollars ($6,259,358) in full payment for the work set
forth above.

Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described
in the Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a
reduction of those set forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and
materials will be paid for as described in the Contract Book.

3. The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this
Agreement; the Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which
includes the Special Provisions and Contract Drawings, Addendum Number 1 issued to the
Contract Book, the APWA-AGC Standard Specifications for Public Works Construction, 2015
Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter referred to
as the “contract documents”).

Construction Contract Page 1 of 9
Rev 7/21

163 of 763


--- page 164 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract
documents. The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings,
representations, warranties and agreements between the parties hereto, or any of them,
pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only by written agreement signed
by all of the parties hereto.

All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so
that any work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the
same as if mentioned in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any
portion of this Agreement and any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail.
The precedence of the remaining contract documents will be as specified in the Contract Book.

4. Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the
Contract Book.

5. Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall
immediately give written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties
shall have the right to take over and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties,
within 5 days after giving them said notice of termination, do not give City written notice of their
intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days after notice to City of such election, City
may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall be
liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, City may,
without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials,
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and
necessary therefor.

6. Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work.
Contractor shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week
from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess
work is compensated for at not less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit
as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the
execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any subcontractor for each calendar day during
which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or permitted to labor more than 8 hours in
any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Sections
1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California.

7. Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations
of the State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all
craftsmen and laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who
work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering
service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages,
determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts and employments, including such wages for
holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct determination will be posted at the job site. It is

Construction Contract Page 2 of 9
Rev 7/21

164 of 763


--- page 165 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

10.

11.

12.

understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine the correct scale. Copies of the
prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or defects in the materials
in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale then in force.
Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance
with Labor Code Section 1776.

Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal
Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price
Index escalator.

Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required. In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1,
all contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations.
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement
by the Department of Industrial Relations.

Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years
thereafter the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement.

Hold Harmless and Indemnity Provision. Contractor agrees to hold harmless, defend, and
indemnify the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against
any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising from performance of this
Agreement, including claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense caused or claimed to be caused
by passive negligence of the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents;
provided, however that this provision does not apply to claims, loss, liability, damage or expense
arising from (a) the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the City or (b) the active negligence of
the City; further provided, that this provision shall not affect the validity of any insurance contract,
workers’ compensation or other agreement issued by an admitted insurer as defined by the
Insurance Code. Contractor will defend City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials,
employees, and agents, against any such claims.

Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5,000 shall be recoverable as costs
(that is, by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the
provisions of the contract documents. The above $5,000 limit is the total of attorney fees
recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number
of attorneys, trials, appeals or actions. It is the intent that neither party to this Agreement shall have
to pay the other more than $5,000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions, to enforce
the provisions of the contract documents. The parties expect and hope there will be no litigation and
that any differences will be resolved amicably.

Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be
submitted to mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The
mediator shall be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties
shall each submit one name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association,
the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service. The
mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.

Construction Contract Page 3 of 9
Rev 7/21

165 of 763


--- page 166 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the
prevailing party. No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.

Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not
in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.

Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail,
postage prepaid.

a. Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:

Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo

330 West 20° Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature
block as shown on the Bidder's Statement.

Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the
plural and vice versa.

Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon
shall be governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The
parties agree that any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued
in the County of San Mateo.

Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract
documents are intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain,
modify, or place any construction on any provisions.

No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed
to constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to
constitute either party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to
commit or bind the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.

Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void,
the parties would not have entered into the contract documents. The parties shall use all

Construction Contract Page 4 of 9
Rev 7/21

166 of 763


--- page 167 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

20.

21.

reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.

Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents,
or of any power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection
by the City or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any
payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time;
or 4) any position taken by the City or its authorized agents or representatives.

Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be
at least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract
documents, and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial
grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work
performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform to the requirements
of the contract documents.

[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]

Construction Contract Page 5 of 9
Rev 7/21

167 of 763


--- page 168 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this agreement between the CITY OF SAN MATEO and MCGUIRE AND
HESTER has been duly executed by the parties hereinabove named, as of the day and year first above

written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO CONTRACTOR
6/1/2023
Azalea Mitch Date Brock Grunt Date
Public Works Director Its Authorized Agent
President
If a Corporation, can be either 1)
President or 2) Vice President plus an
additional corporate officer  (i.e.,
Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign
below.
APPROVED AS TO FORM ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER
(if necessary per the above)
Linh Nguyen Date Date
Assistant City Attorney
Attachments:
Exhibit A: Insurance Requirements
Construction Contract Page 6 of 9
Rev 7/21

168 of 763


--- page 169 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

Exhibit A

Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five years thereafter,
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in
connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents,
representatives, employees, or subcontractors.
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:

1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL
onan “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily
injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required
occurrence limit.

2. Automobile Liability: Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.

3. Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits,
and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily
injury or disease.

4. Surety Bonds as described below.

5. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and Omissions
(if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.

If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above,
the Entity requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by
the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance
and coverage shall be available to the Entity.

Self-Insured Retentions

Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the Entity. At the option of the Entity,
either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions
as respects the Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide
a financial guarantee satisfactory to the Entity guaranteeing payment of losses and related
investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The policy language shall provide, or be
endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by either the named insured or
Entity.

Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:

1. The Entity, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed
by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection
with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf
of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to
the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10,
CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).

Construction Contract Page 7 of 9
Rev 7/21

169 of 763


--- page 170 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

2. For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the Entity, its officers,
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Entity,
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and
shall not contribute with it.

3. Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled,
except with notice to the Entity.

Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance

Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of Construction
coverage. Such coverage shall name the Entity as a loss payee as their interest may appear.

If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the Entity, an Installation
Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall be obtained that
provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, conversion or adjustment to existing
buildings, structures, processes, machinery and equipment. The Property Installation Floater shall
provide property damage coverage for any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged,
impaired, broken, or destroyed during the performance of the Work, including during transit,
installation, and testing at the Entity’s site.

Claims Made Policies — (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies)

If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:

1. The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the
contract or the beginning of contract work.

2. Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five (5)
years after completion of contract work.

3. If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form
with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must
purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion
of contract work.

4. Acopy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the Entity for review.

5. If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services
involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not
contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including
mold.

Acceptability of Insurers

Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M.
Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the Entity.

Waiver of Subrogation

Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement
that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be
endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of the Entity for all work performed by the Contractor,
its employees, agents and subcontractors.

Verification of Coverage

Contractor shall furnish the Entity with original Certificates of Insurance including all required
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required b
this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all polic

Construction Contract Page 8 of 9
Rev 7/21

170 of 763


--- page 171 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

endorsements to Entity before work begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to
the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them. The Entity reserves the
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements,
required by these specifications, at any time.
Subcontractors
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that Entity is an additional insured on insurance
required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at
least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
Surety Bonds
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:

1. Bid bond

2. Performance bond

3. Payment bond

4. Maintenance bond
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the
Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary. If
the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to
10% of the contract price is required. Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety,
authorized to issue such bonds in the State of California and secured through an authorized agent with
an office in California.
Special Risks or Circumstances
Entity reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk,
prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances.

Construction Contract Page 9 of 9
Rev 7/21

171 of 763


--- page 172 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

San Mateo Smooth Streets Program Phase 4 Project

&
&
AIRP o
<F
WY g
si Oy,
ce %
oO cS
Sy, SS
6, © =
BE %,
Se a» wh ee
5 row GOH, %,
sw BOON <3 ,
S ao” yo %
wo i KE TT. OS
OS & gz 0,/ USS TG. CER
¢ S > Ry %, RCs Se, BGR KSS
6 ‘ oS
i) fs) » OE KAR S RY ra)
cos Yo ¢ Y SX Ne Oo et
0k No) WG S “
® % Oey
S CRS OF WX % YRS Ka PO ig
So, & y Or. /Q, 6, Pee Ko %
& Oy % Ov “by a A &
x on 52 Ay, ey © A
wre aes OS & co) o> & ce
oO ype % 2S er NS, S 7)
at C4 WG, Rss On eae S tiny
Ny co) ‘7, {e)
ra) 2 xs SO % %, oh SOW, 9 CINE S 3
8 3 ® ot PSG KS oS BA he, yrs %)° BK Vast s
= ia) wD © X ye Re by SO x HUSX = & a THIRD
w ca g Ry 4 % %, 9& wy GOY Se a 5 5
o, a S NoHAn\<S 4 2K NQ % % SOS s > 4 x
a % 8 & S ‘s & XW Be & acs %, a 2 Port
5 oN, Be DOW s OG %, \w dae 3 o
9 vA %, Y £ xo a BX me % OX  K gemma be
& 2 ay SONS CRRACRY? Pan OU es gilPrer & 3
RY 4\z2 OA: yy os B % PrxX © MA & 3 a
S = \S COP — oF x Ye or %, < = Fe
& E\S& wD 6 « LA wh
ee 5% . Fray * & Ri OY OX CHL SS cn %, ~ CHURCH @PouK yeu! MAKE 4
@, @ | * LYS % Br % re ECHO) 5 ow &
% mS & © WY BQ O-B SW 2, FA wee’ S
% bal oO) KS ° woe) | 2 Mf
J fe] ES &
z=
ON & ‘CHESS
LS)
y
s
g§
eneewane®
3% zy
O\%
Zz. y
ASK on a Ke
» M00 x ® % -p 26 / Ke, GN
S ‘gy Bs , LAGO
re %, Yond Re g %
SEE a eee ee: fh . ‘
OWS 'Q & A s
Ho NG pat wee a eB %, os co
%, ogi § EOF » ©
YX 2 aA Le HO) a)
ky <6 6 s &-p EaEAle)
LONG WS & as a38
AO], ee) m & a
Sy SA Zz cS S AWS
Ay ue Xo. x Sa Os a
% CLS M6 Be ¥ LEAS PS e e783
al Nu ‘~% 2
Q ° Syn € < SS %, ONS He
SY ONG Vor Fo
% ee sh seo ra) fe) ONE y
% % SX ge SY gg BBG
2 Ga ? oe © ‘s ROAR
2 Re eur! ES ‘eel OY AY WO ASESCOEH
g 3 es ss & oh SK AQ x
a 2 1A ey BOY Wos™ OG WO).
rey 9 ps ot eS BCS
Ss 2 K Be
A iS Moe we ap ® ‘a4
Se Xo Wee S Ho, 40TH
ae we Seo we eB So’ ) GEORGE i
© © O
& YS s DO LI Kn’ S )
Bw F a ys SSS fF \_Claurle Meapows 84,
g &~ Yer 2 4 NO S QE OO 2 mon
g G NB S 3 Pr Ve %
8 z CNS aa a % A x) % ite Cs we % BLOSSOM NOs y= Pai
2\ 8% AO 8 Oh KO SK % re
2.67 _\S NES 99 O7/ \Ae\2 BAYVIEV > ee
me ay wo %, 3% ow 2 Re)
%, ot AAR
2a ye
is ERESTWOOD 2 ann AAO RN
= PARKWOOD 47 = GREENFIELD 4
ic) YF YG. KINGRIDGE
x < S&S sp
& FY, 9 SF —_aand ae
& Sy % oe
& . ES
AX
Os
ay ~
=
S
y
=
&
oe
ERO
coe
0 1,500 3,000 6,000 9,000

City of San Mateo Streets

1Zast Usdated: 5/9/2023


--- page 173 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

[Street [From [SoS

173 of 763


--- page 174 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

® DATE (MMIDDIYYYY:
ACORD CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE

THIS CERTIFICATE IS ISSUED AS A MATTER OF INFORMATION ONLY AND CONFERS NO RIGHTS UPON THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER. THIS
CERTIFICATE DOES NOT AFFIRMATIVELY OR NEGATIVELY AMEND, EXTEND OR ALTER THE COVERAGE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES
BELOW. THIS CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A CONTRACT BETWEEN THE ISSUING INSURER(S), AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OR PRODUCER, AND THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER.

IMPORTANT: If the certificate holder is an ADDITIONAL INSURED, the policy(ies) must be endorsed. If SUBROGATION IS WAIVED, subject to
the terms and conditions of the policy, certain policies may require an endorsement. A statement on this certificate does not confer rights to the
certificate holder in lieu of such endorsement(s).

CONTACT
PRODUCER Glenda Vargas

NAME:
R. C. Fischer & Co.
P.O. Box 8101 (AIG. No, Ext): 925-627-5465 FAX No): 925-932-0962

Walnut Creek CA 94596 ADDRESS: _gvargas@rcfischer.com

INSURER(S) AFFORDING COVERAGE NAIC #
INSURER A : Executive Risk Indemnity Inc. 35181
INSURER B : Federal Insurance Company 20281

INSURED MCGUAND-01

oe ayie and Bay Parkway INSURER Cc : Berkley Assurance Company 39462

Alameda CA 94502-3040 INSURER D :
INSURER E :

INSURER F :

COVERAGES CERTIFICATE NUMBER: 527936704 REVISION NUMBER:
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THE POLICIES OF INSURANCE LISTED BELOW HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE INSURED NAMED ABOVE FOR THE POLICY PERIOD
INDICATED. NOTWITHSTANDING ANY REQUIREMENT, TERM OR CONDITION OF ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER DOCUMENT WITH RESPECT TO WHICH THIS
CERTIFICATE MAY BE ISSUED OR MAY PERTAIN, THE INSURANCE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES DESCRIBED HEREIN IS SUBJECT TO ALL THE TERMS,
EXCLUSIONS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH POLICIES. LIMITS SHOWN MAY HAVE BEEN REDUCED BY PAID CLAIMS.

INSR SUBR POLICY EFF | POLICY EXP
LTR TYPE OF INSURANCE WVD POLICY NUMBER MMIDDIYYYY) | (MM/DD/YYYY} LIMITS

COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY 54303064 7/1/2022 7/1/2023 EACH OCCURRENCE $ 2,000,000

X DAMAGE TO RENTED
CLAIMS-MADE OCCUR PREMISES (Ea occurrence) $ 100,000

Contract Liab MED EXP (Any one person) $ 5,000

XCU PERSONAL & ADV INJURY $ 2,000,000
GEN'L AGGREGATE LIMIT APPLIES PER: GENERAL AGGREGATE $ 4,000,000
poticy | X FRO: Loc PRODUCTS - COMP/OP AGG | $ 4,000,000

OTHER: GL Ded $10K

COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY 54303063 7/1/2022 7/1/2023 (Ea accident) $ 2,000,000

ANY AUTO BODILY INJURY (Per person)

ALL OWNED SCHEDULED ‘
AUTOS BODILY INJURY (Per accident)

AUTOS
NON-OWNED PROPERTY DAMAGE
HIRED AUTOS AUTOS (Per accident)

UMBRELLA LIAB OCCUR 93652735 7/1/2022 7/1/2023 EACH OCCURRENCE $ 5,000,000

EXCESS LIAB CLAIMS-MADE AGGREGATE $ 5,000,000

X | RETENTIONS 9 $
WORKERS COMPENSATION 54303065 7/1/2022 7/1/2023
AND EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY Y
ANY PROPRIETOR/PARTNER/EXECUTIVE E.L. EACH ACCIDENT $ 1,000,000
OFFICER/MEMBER EXCLUDED?

(Mandatory in NH) E.L. DISEASE - EA EMPLOYEE} $ 1,000,000
If yes, describe under
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS below E.L, DISEASE - POLICY LIMIT | $ 1,000,000

Contractor's Pollution Liability PCAB-5019547-0722 7/1/2022 7/1/2023 Occ Limit 5,000,000

DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS / LOCATIONS / VEHICLES (ACORD 101, Additional Remarks Schedule, may be attached if more space is required)

RE: M&H Job 4941 - Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 4.

The City of San Mateo, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are named as Additional Insureds per CG20101219, CG20371219 & 160202921116.
Insurance is Primary per 100224610715 & 160203161014. Waiver of subrogation applies per 100218000917, 160202921116 & WC99003750518. Cancellation
notice applies per CG02241093, 160203221115 & WC9906620116.

CERTIFICATE HOLDER CANCELLATION

SHOULD ANY OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED POLICIES BE CANCELLED BEFORE
THE EXPIRATION DATE THEREOF, NOTICE WILL BE DELIVERED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLICY PROVISIONS.

City of San Mateo

330 W. 20th Avenue

San Mateo CA 94403 mine _

© 1988-2014 ACORD CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
ACORD 25 (2014/01) The ACORD name and logo are registered marks of ACORD
THIS CERTIFICATE SUPERSEDES PREVIOUSLY ISSUED CERTIFICATE

174 of 763


--- page 175 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4 103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

POLICY NUMBER: 54303063 COMMERCIAL AUTO

16-02-0322 (Ed. 11-15)
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

NOTICE OF CANCELLATION OR NON-RENEWAL TO
SPECIFIED PERSONS OR ORGANIZATIONS

This endorsement modifies the following:

COMMON POLICY CONDITIONS

SCHEDULE

Name(s) and Address(es):

WHERE REQUIRED BY WRITTEN CONTRACT OR AGREEMENT

The following Condition is added:

Notice Of Cancellation Or Non-Renewal To Specified Persons Or Organizations

1. If we cancel or non-renew this policy for any reason other than non-payment, we will deliver notice of the
cancellation or non-renewal to any Person(s) or Organization(s) shown in the Schedule 30 days prior to the
effective date of cancellation or non-renewal.

. If we cancel this policy for non-payment, we will deliver notice of the cancellation to any Person(s) or
Organization(s) shown in the Schedule —_10 days prior to the effective date of cancellation.

3. If notice is mailed, proof of mailing will be sufficient proof of notice.

. Any failure by us to notify such person(s) or organization(s) will not invalidate such cancellation or non-renewal
with respect to any other person(s) or organization(s).

16-02-0322 (Ed. 11-15) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc.,

Page 1 of 1
with its permission.

175 of 763


--- page 176 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

POLICY NUMBER: 54303064 COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
CG 02 24 10 93

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

EARLIER NOTICE OF CANCELLATION
PROVIDED BY US

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

LIQUOR LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

POLLUTION LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

PRODUCTS/COMPLETED OPERATIONS LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

SCHEDULE
Number of Days' Notice

(If no entry appears above, information required to complete this Schedule will be shown in the Declarations as
applicable to this endorsement.)

For any statutorily permitted reason other than nonpayment of premium, the number of days required for notice
of cancellation, as provided in paragraph 2. of either the CANCELLATION Common Policy Condition or as
amended by an applicable state cancellation endorsement, is increased to the number of days shown in the
Schedule above.

CG 02 24 10 93 Copyright, Insurance Services Office, Inc., 1992 Page 1 of 1 Oo
176 of 763


--- page 177 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

POLICY NUMBER: 54303064 COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
CG 20 37 12 19

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

ADDITIONAL INSURED — OWNERS, LESSEES OR
CONTRACTORS — COMPLETED OPERATIONS

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART
PRODUCTS/COMPLETED OPERATIONS LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

SCHEDULE

Name Of Additional Insured Person(s)
Or Organization(s) Location And Description Of Completed Operations

WHERE REQUIRED BY WRITTEN CONTRACT. ALL LOCATIONS WHERE REQUIRED BY WRITTEN
CONTRACT.

Information required to complete this Schedule, if not shown above, will be shown in the Declarations.

A. Section Il — Who Is An Insured is amended to B. With respect to the insurance afforded to these
include as an additional insured the person(s) or additional insureds, the following is added to
organization(s) shown in the Schedule, but only Section Ill — Limits Of Insurance:
with respect to liability for "bodily injury" or If coverage provided to the additional insured is
"property damage" caused, in whole or in part, by required by a contract or agreement, the most we
"your work" at the location designated and will pay on behalf of the additional insured is the
described in the Schedule of this endorsement amount of insurance:

performed for that additional insured and included
in the "products-completed operations hazard".

However:

1. Required by the contract or agreement; or
2. Available under the applicable limits of

insurance;
1. The insurance afforded to such additional

; ; ; whichever is less.
insured only applies to the extent permitted by ;
law: and This endorsement shall not increase the

licable limits of i .
2. If coverage provided to the additional insured is appleaine limn's OF Insurance

required by a contract or agreement, the
insurance afforded to such additional insured
will not be broader than that which you are
required by the contract or agreement to
provide for such additional insured.

CG 20 37 12 19 © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2018 Page 1 of
177 of 763


--- page 178 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

Policy Number: 54303064 CG 20 10 12 19

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

ADDITIONAL INSURED — OWNERS, LESSEES OR
CONTRACTORS — SCHEDULED PERSON OR
ORGANIZATION

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

Commercial General Liability Coverage Part

Schedule
Name Of Additional Insured Person(s)
Or Organization(s)
WHERE REQUIRED BY WRITTEN CONTRACT.

Location(s) Of Covered Operations
ALL LOCATIONS WHERE REQUIRED BY
WRITTEN CONTRACT.

Information required to complete this Schedule, if not shown above, will be shown in the Declarations.

A. Section Il — Who Is An Insured is amended to
include as an additional insured the person(s)
or organization(s) shown in the Schedule, but

B. With respect to the insurance afforded to these
additional insureds, the following additional
exclusions apply:

CG 20 10 12 19

only with respect to liability for "bodily injury",
"property damage" or "personal and advertising
injury" caused, in whole or in part, by:

1. Your acts or omissions; or

2. The acts or omissions of those acting on
your behalf;

in the performance of your ongoing operations
for the additional insured(s) at the location(s)
designated above.

However:

1. The insurance afforded to such additional
insured only applies to the extent permitted
by law; and

2. If coverage provided to the additional
insured is required by a contract or
agreement, the insurance afforded to such
additional insured will not be broader than
that which you are required by the contract
or agreement to provide for such additional
insured.

© Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2018

This insurance does not apply to "bodily injury"
or "property damage" occurring after:

1. All work, including materials, parts or
equipment furnished in connection with such
work, on the project (other than service,
maintenance or repairs) to be performed by
or on behalf of the additional insured(s) at
the location of the covered operations has
been completed; or

2. That portion of "your work" out of which the
injury or damage arises has been put to its
intended use by any person or organization
other than another’ contractor or
subcontractor engaged in_ performing
operations for a principal as a part of the
same project.

Page 1 of 2

178 of 763


--- page 179 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

C. With respect to the insurance afforded to these
additional insureds, the following is added to
Section Ill — Limits Of Insurance:

If coverage provided to the additional insured is
required by a contract or agreement, the most
we will pay on behalf of the additional insured is
the amount of insurance:

1. Required by the contract or agreement; or

2. Available under the applicable limits of
insurance;

whichever is less.
This endorsement shall not increase the
applicable limits of insurance.

All other terms and conditions of this Policy remain unchanged.

CG 20 10 12 19 © Insurance Services Office, Inc., 2018 Page 2 of 2
179 of 763


--- page 180 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

POLICY NUMBER: 54303064 COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
EFFECTIVE DATE: 07/01/2022 10-02-2461 (Ed. 7-15)

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

PRIMARY INSURANCE FOR
SCHEDULED ADDITIONAL INSURED

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE PART

SCHEDULE
Additional Insured: Location Of Covered Operations:
Where required by written contract. All Locations

(If no entry appears above, information required to complete this endorsement will be shown in the Declarations
as applicable to this endorsement.)

With respect only to the Additional Insured and at the
Location Of Covered Operations shown in_ the
Schedule, the following is added to SECTION IV —
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY CONDITIONS,
Paragraph 4. Other Insurance and supersedes any
provision to the contrary:

Primary And Noncontributory Insurance

This insurance is primary to and will not seek
contribution from any other insurance available to
the Additional Insured with respect to the Location
Of Covered Operations shown in the Schedule
under this policy provided that:

(1) The Additional Insured is a named insured
under such other insurance; and

(2) You have agreed in writing in a contract or
agreement that this insurance would be
primary and would not seek contribution from
any other insurance available to the
Additional Insured.

10-02-2461 (Ed. 7-15) Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., Page 1 of 1
with its permission.

180 of 763


--- page 181 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4 103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

Workers' Compensation and Employers’ Liability Policy

Named Insured Endorsement Number
McGuire and Hester

Policy Number

Symbol: WCF Number: (23)5430-30-65
Policy Period Effective Date of Endorsement
07-01-2022 TO 07-01-2023 07-01-2022

Issued By (Name of Insurance Company)
FEDERAL INSURANCE

Insert the policy number. The remainder of the information is to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to the preparation of the policy.

NOTICE OF CANCELLATION OR NON-RENEWAL TO SPECIFIED PERSONS OR
ORGANIZATIONS

The following Condition is added to PART SIX - CONDITIONS:
Notice Of Cancellation Or Non-Renewal To Specified Persons Or Organizations

1. If we cancel or non-renew this policy for any reason other than non-payment, we will deliver notice of the
cancellation or non-renewal to any Person(s) or Organization(s) shown in the Schedule 30 days prior to the
effective date of cancellation or non-renewal.

2. If we cancel this policy for non-payment, we will deliver notice of the cancellation to any Person(s) or
Organization(s) shown in the Schedule 10 days prior to the effective date of cancellation.

3. If notice is mailed, proof of mailing will be sufficient proof of notice.

Any failure by us to notify such person(s) or organization(s) will not invalidate such cancellation or non-renewal
with respect to any other person(s) or organization(s).

SCHEDULE

Name(s) and Address(es):

All Persons or Organization as on fiel with us.

Authorized Representative

WC 99 06 62 (01-16) Page 1 of 1

181 of 763



--- page 182 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

Insured: McGuire and Hester
POLICY NUMBER: 54303063

COMMERCIAL AUTOMOBILE

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

COMMERCIAL AUTOMOBILE BROAD FORM ENDORSEMENT

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:

BUSINESS AUTO COVERAGE FORM

This endorsement modifies the Business Auto Coverage Form.

1. EXTENDED CANCELLATION CONDITION
Paragraph A.2.b. - CANCELLATION - of the
COMMON POLICY CONDITIONS form IL 00 17 is
deleted and replaced with the following:

b. 60 days before the effective date of cancellation if
we cancel for any other reason.

2. BROAD FORM INSURED
A. Subsidiaries and Newly Acquired or Formed

Organizations As Insureds
The Named Insured shown in the Declarations is
amended to include:

1.

2.

Any legally incorporated subsidiary in which
you own more than 50% of the voting stock on
the effective date of the Coverage Form.
However, the Named Insured does not include
any subsidiary that is an “insured” under any
other automobile policy or would be an
“insured” under such a policy but for its
termination or the exhaustion of its Limit of
Insurance.
Any organization that is acquired or formed by
you and over which you maintain majority
ownership. However, the Named Insured
does not include any newly formed or acquired
organization:
(a) That is an “insured” under any other
automobile policy;
(b) That has exhausted its Limit of Insurance
under any other policy; or
(c) 180 days or more after its acquisition or
formation by you, unless you have given
us written notice of the acquisition or
formation.

Coverage does not apply to “bodily injury” or
“property damage” that results from an “accident”
that occurred before you formed or acquired the
organization.
B. Employees as Insureds
Paragraph A.1. — WHO IS AN INSURED - of
SECTION II — LIABILITY COVERAGE is amended to
add the following:

d. Any “employee” of yours while using a
covered “auto” you don’t own, hire or

Form: 16-02-0292 (Rev. 11-16)

"Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission"

borrow in your business or your personal
affairs.
Lessors as Insureds

Paragraph A.1. — WHO IS AN INSURED - of

SECTION II — LIABILITY COVERAGE is

amended to add the following:

e. The lessor of a covered “auto” while the
“auto” is leased to you under a written
agreement if:

(1) The agreement requires you to
provide direct primary insurance for
the lessor; and

(2) The “auto” is leased without a driver.

Such leased “auto” will be considered a

covered “auto” you own and not a covered

“auto” you hire.

However, the lessor is an “insured” only

for “bodily injury” or “property damage”

resulting from the acts or omissions by:

1. You;
2. Any of your “employees” or agents;
or

3. Any person, except the lessor or
any “employee” or agent of the
lessor, operating an “auto” with the
permission of any of 1. and/or 2.
above.

Persons And Organizations As Insureds

Under A Written Insured Contract

Paragraph A.1 — WHO IS AN INSURED - of

SECTION II — LIABILITY COVERAGE is

amended to add the following:

f. Any person or organization with respect to
the operation, maintenance or use of a
covered “auto”, provided that you and
such person or organization have agreed
under an express provision in a written
“insured contract’, written agreement or a
written permit issued to you by a
governmental or public authority to add
such person or organization to this policy
as an “insured”.

However, such person or organization is
an “insured” only:

Page 1 of 3

182 of 763


--- page 183 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

(1) with respect to the operation,
maintenance or use of a covered
“auto”; and

(2) for “bodily injury” or “property damage”
caused by an “accident” which takes
place after:

(a) You executed the “insured
contract” or written agreement; or

(b) The permit has been issued to
you.

3. FELLOW EMPLOYEE COVERAGE
EXCLUSION B.5. - FELLOW EMPLOYEE - of
SECTION II — LIABILITY COVERAGE does not apply.

4. PHYSICAL DAMAGE — ADDITIONAL TEMPORARY
TRANSPORTATION EXPENSE COVERAGE
Paragraph A.4.a. - TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES
— of SECTION IIl -— PHYSICAL DAMAGE
COVERAGE is amended to provide a limit of $50 per
day for temporary transportation expense, subject to a
maximum limit of $1,000.

5. AUTO LOAN/LEASE GAP COVERAGE
Paragraph A. 4. - COVERAGE EXTENSIONS - of
SECTION III — PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE is
amended to add the following:

c. Unpaid Loan or Lease Amounts

In the event of a total “loss” to a covered “auto”, we will

pay any unpaid amount due on the loan or lease for a

covered “auto” minus:

1. The amount paid under the Physical Damage
Coverage Section of the policy; and

2. Any:

a. Overdue loan/lease payments at the time of

the “loss”;

b. Financial penalties imposed under a lease for
excessive use, abnormal wear and tear or
high mileage;

Security deposits not returned by the lessor:

Costs for extended warranties, Credit Life

Insurance, Health, Accident or Disability

Insurance purchased with the loan or lease;

and
e. Carry-over balances from previous loans or

leases.

We will pay for any unpaid amount due on the loan or

lease if caused by:

1. Other than Collision Coverage only if the
Declarations indicate that Comprehensive
Coverage is provided for any covered “auto”;

2. Specified Causes of Loss Coverage only if the
Declarations indicate that Specified Causes of
Loss Coverage is provided for any covered “auto”;
or

3. Collision Coverage only if the Declarations indicate
that Collision Coverage is provided for any
covered “auto.

6. RENTAL AGENCY EXPENSE

a0

Paragraph A. 4. - COVERAGE EXTENSIONS - of

SECTION IIl —- PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE
is amended to add the following:

Form: 16-02-0292 (Rev. 11-16)

d. Rental Expense
We will pay the following expenses that you or
any of your “employees” are legally obligated
to pay because of a written contract or
agreement entered into for use of a rental
vehicle in the conduct of your business:

MAXIMUM WE WILL PAY FOR ANY ONE

CONTRACT OR AGREEMENT:

1. $2,500 for loss of income incurred by the
rental agency during the period of time that
vehicle is out of use because of actual
damage to, or “loss” of, that vehicle, including
income lost due to absence of that vehicle for
use as a replacement;

2. $2,500 for decrease in trade-in value of the
rental vehicle because of actual damage to
that vehicle arising out of a covered “loss”; and

3. $2,500 for administrative expenses incurred
by the rental agency, as stated in the contract
or agreement.

4. $7,500 maximum total amount for paragraphs
1., 2. and 3. combined.

EXTRA EXPENSE — BROADENED COVERAGE

Paragraph A.4. - COVERAGE EXTENSIONS - of

SECTION Ill —- PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE

is amended to add the following:

e. Recovery Expense
We will pay for the expense of returning a
stolen covered “auto” to you.

8. AIRBAG COVERAGE

Paragraph B.3.a. - EXCLUSIONS — of SECTION
Ill - PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE does not
apply to the accidental or unintended discharge of
an airbag. Coverage is excess over any other
collectible insurance or warranty specifically
designed to provide this coverage.

AUDIO, VISUAL AND DATA ELECTRONIC

EQUIPMENT - BROADENED COVERAGE

Paragraph C.1.b. — LIMIT OF INSURANCE - of

SECTION III - PHYSICAL DAMAGE is deleted

and replaced with the following:

b. $2,000 is the most we will pay for "loss" in any
one "accident" to all electronic equipment that
reproduces, receives or transmits audio, visual
or data signals which, at the time of "loss", is:
(1) Permanently installed in or upon the

covered "auto" in a housing, opening or
other location that is not normally used by
the "auto" manufacturer for the installation
of such equipment;

(2) Removable from a permanently installed
housing unit as described in Paragraph
2.a. above or is an integral part of that
equipment; or

(3) An integral part of such equipment.

10. GLASS REPAIR — WAIVER OF DEDUCTIBLE

Page 2 of 3

"Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission"

183 of 763


--- page 184 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

11.

12.

13.

Under Paragraph D. - DEDUCTIBLE — of
SECTION III — PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE
the following is added:

No deductible applies to glass damage if the glass

is repaired rather than replaced.

TWO OR MORE DEDUCTIBLES

Paragraph D.- DEDUCTIBLE — of SECTION III —

PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE is amended to

add the following:

If this Coverage Form and any other Coverage

Form or policy issued to you by us that is not an

automobile policy or Coverage Form applies to the

same “accident”, the following applies:

1. If the deductible under this Business Auto
Coverage Form is the smaller (or smallest)
deductible, it will be waived; or

2. If the deductible under this Business Auto
Coverage Form is not the smaller (or smallest)
deductible, it will be reduced by the amount of
the smaller (or smallest) deductible.

AMENDED DUTIES IN THE EVENT OF

ACCIDENT, CLAIM, SUIT OR LOSS

Paragraph A.2.a. - DUTIES IN THE EVENT OF

AN ACCIDENT, CLAIM, SUIT OR LOSS of

SECTION IV - BUSINESS AUTO CONDITIONS is

deleted and replaced with the following:

a. Inthe event of “accident”, claim, “suit” or
“loss”, you must promptly notify us when the
“accident” is known to:

(1) You or your authorized representative, if
you are an individual;

(2) A partner, or any authorized
representative, if you are a partnership;

(3) A member, if you are a limited liability
company; or

(4) An executive officer, insurance manager,
or authorized representative, if you are an
organization other than a partnership or
limited liability company.

Knowledge of an “accident”, claim, “suit” or

“loss” by other persons does not imply that the

persons listed above have such knowledge.

Notice to us should include:

(1) How, when and where the “accident” or
“loss” occurred;

(2) The “insured’s” name and address; and

(3) To the extent possible, the names and
addresses of any injured persons or
witnesses.

WAIVER OF SUBROGATION

Paragraph A.5. - TRANSFER OF RIGHTS OF

RECOVERY AGAINST OTHERS TO US of

SECTION IV — BUSINESS AUTO CONDITIONS is

deleted and replaced with the following:

5. Wewill waive the right of recovery we would
otherwise have against another person or
organization for “loss” to which this insurance
applies, provided the “insured” has waived

Form: 16-02-0292 (Rev. 11-16)

"Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc. with its permission"

14.

15.

16.

17.

their rights of recovery against such person or
organization under a contract or agreement
that is entered into before such “loss”.

To the extent that the “insured’s” rights to
recover damages for all or part of any
payment made under this insurance has not
been waived, those rights are transferred to
us. That person or organization must do
everything necessary to secure our rights and
must do nothing after “accident” or “loss” to
impair them. At our request, the insured will
bring suit or transfer those rights to us and
help us enforce them.

UNINTENTIONAL FAILURE TO DISCLOSE
HAZARDS

Paragraph B.2. - CONCEALMENT,
MISREPRESENTATION or FRAUD of SECTION
IV — BUSINESS AUTO CONDITIONS - is deleted
and replaced with the following:

If you unintentionally fail to disclose any hazards
existing at the inception date of your policy, we will
not void coverage under this Coverage Form
because of such failure.

AUTOS RENTED BY EMPLOYEES

Paragraph B.5. - OTHER INSURANCE of

SECTION IV — BUSINESS AUTO CONDITIONS -

is amended to add the following:

e. Any “auto” hired or rented by your “employee”
on your behalf and at your direction will be
considered an “auto” you hire. lf an
“employee’s” personal insurance also applies
on an excess basis to a covered “auto” hired
or rented by your “employee” on your behalf
and at your direction, this insurance will be
primary to the “employee’s” personal
insurance.

HIRED AUTO — COVERAGE TERRITORY

Paragraph B.7.b.(5). - POLICY PERIOD,

COVERAGE TERRITORY of SECTION IV —

BUSINESS AUTO CONDITIONS is deleted and

replaced with the following:

(5) A covered “auto” of the private passenger
type is leased, hired, rented or borrowed
without a driver for a period of 45 days or
less; and

RESULTANT MENTAL ANGUISH COVERAGE

Paragraph C. of - SECTION V — DEFINITIONS is

deleted and replaced by the following:

“Bodily injury” means bodily injury, sickness or

disease sustained by any person, including

mental anguish or death as a result of the “bodily
injury” sustained by that person.

Page 3 of 3

184 of 763


--- page 185 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

POLICY NUMBER: 54303063 COMMERCIAL AUTO
16-02-0316 Ed. 10 14

THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.

PRIMARY AND NON-CONTRIBUTORY LIABILITY
INSURANCE

This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:
BUSINESS AUTO COVERAGE FORM

With respect to coverage provided by this endorsement, the provisions of the Coverage Form apply unless
modified by the endorsement.

This endorsement changes the policy effective on the inception date of the policy unless another date is indicated
below.

Named Insured: McGuire and Hester

Endorsement Effective Date: 07/01/2022

SCHEDULE
Name(s) Of Person(s) Or Organization(s):

Where required by written contract.

Information required to complete this Schedule, if not shown above, will be shown in the Declarations.

The following is added to Item 5. — “Other
Insurance’ of Item B. — “General Conditions” under
Section IV — “Business Auto Conditions’:

e. Regardless of the provisions of Paragraph 5.a.
through d. above, for any liability arising out of the
ownership, maintenance, use, rental, lease, loan, hire
or borrowing by an "insured” of a covered “auto” for
which an “insured” is contractually obligated to
provide primary insurance coverage to a client, this
Coverage Form will be primary and non-contributory
with respect to the Persons or Organizations in the
schedule, regardless of the availability or existence of
other collectible insurance under any other Coverage
Form or policy that applies on a primary basis.

16-02-0316 Ed. 10 14 Page 1 of 1
185 of 763


--- page 186 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

Policy Number: 54303064
Insured: McGuire & Hester

COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-17)

COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM

Various provisions in this policy restrict coverage.
Read the entire policy carefully to determine rights,
duties and what is and is not covered.

Throughout this policy the words "you" and "your"
refer to the Named Insured shown in the Declara-
tions, and any other person or organization qualifying
as a Named Insured under this policy. The words

"we", "us" and "our" refer to the company providing
this insurance.

The word "insured" means any person or organization
qualifying as such under Section Il — Who Is An In-
sured.

Other words and phrases that appear in quotation
marks have special meaning. Refer to Section V —
Definitions.

SECTION I - COVERAGES

COVERAGE A BODILY INJURY AND PROPERTY
DAMAGE LIABILITY

1. Insuring Agreement

a. We will pay damages that the insured be-
comes legally obligated to pay for "bodily inju-
ry" or "property damage” to which this insur-
ance applies. We will have the right and duty to
defend the insured against any "suit" seeking
those damages. However, we will have no duty
to defend the insured against any "suit" seek-
ing damages for "bodily injury" or "property
damage" to which this insurance does not ap-
ply. We may, at our discretion, investigate any
“occurrence” and settle any claim or "suit" that
may result. But:

(1) The amount we will pay for damages is
limited as described in Section III — Limits
Of Insurance; and

(2) Our right and duty to defend ends when we
have used up the applicable limit of insur-
ance in the payment of judgments or set-
tlements under Coverages A or B or medi-
cal expenses under Coverage C.

No other obligation or liability to pay sums or
perform acts or services is covered unless ex-
plicitly provided for under Supplementary
Payments — Coverages A and B.

b. This insurance applies to "bodily injury" and
"property damage" only if:
(1) The "bodily injury" or "property damage" is
caused by an "occurrence" that takes place
in the "coverage territory";

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-
17)

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties, Inc., with
its permission

(2) The "bodily injury" or "property damage"
occurs during the policy period; and

Prior to the policy period, no insured listed

under Paragraph 1. of Section Il — Who Is

An Insured and no "employee" authorized

by you to give or receive notice of an "oc-

currence" or claim, knew that the "bodily in-
jury" or "property damage" had occurred, in
whole or in part. If such a listed insured or
authorized "employee" knew, prior to the
policy period, that the "bodily injury" or

"property damage" occurred, then any con-

tinuation, change or resumption of such

"bodily injury" or "property damage" will be

deemed to have been known prior to the

policy period.

c. "Bodily injury" or "property damage" will be
deemed to have been known to have occurred
at the earliest time when any insured listed un-
der Paragraph 1. of Section Il — Who Is An In-
sured or any "employee" authorized by you to
give or receive notice of an "occurrence" or
claim:

(1) Reports all, or any part, of the "bodily injury"
or "property damage" to us or any other in-
surer;

(2) Receives a written or verbal demand or
claim for damages for the "bodily injury" or
"property damage"; or

(3) Becomes aware by any other means that
"bodily injury" or "property damage" has oc-
curred or has begun to occur.

d. Damages for "bodily injury" include damages
claimed by any person or organization for care,
loss of services or death resulting at any time
from the "bodily injury”.

2. Exclusions
This insurance does not apply to:
a. Expected Or Intended Injury

"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out
of an act that:

(1) Is expected or intended from the standpoint
of the insured; or

(2) Would be expected or intended from the
standpoint of a reasonable person in the
circumstances of the insured;

(3

—

Page 1 of 16

186 of 763


--- page 187 ---
Page 2 of 16

DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

to cause “bodily injury” or “property damage’,
even if the actual “bodily injury” or “property
damage” is of a different degree or type than
intended or expected.

This exclusion does not apply to “bodily injury"
or “property damage” resulting from the use of
reasonable force to protect persons or proper-
ty.

. Contractual Liability

"Bodily injury" or "property damage" for which
the insured is obligated to pay damages by
reason of the assumption of liability in a con-
tract or agreement. This exclusion does not
apply to liability for damages:

(1) That the insured would have in the absence
of the contract or agreement; or

(2) Assumed in a contract or agreement that is
an "insured contract", provided the "bodily
injury" or "property damage" occurs subse-
quent to the execution of the contract or
agreement.

. Liquor Liability

"Bodily injury" or "property damage" for which
any person or organization may be held liable
by reason of:

(1) Causing or contributing to the intoxication
of any person;

(2) The furnishing of alcoholic beverages to a
person under the legal drinking age or un-
der the influence of alcohol;

Any statute, ordinance or regulation relating
to the sale, gift, distribution or use of alco-
holic beverages; or

Providing or failing to provide transportation
with respect to any person that may be un-
der the influence of alcohol in connection
with any circumstances described in c.(1),
(2), or (3) above.

This exclusion applies only if you are in the
business of manufacturing, distributing, selling,
serving or furnishing alcoholic beverages.

For the purposes of this exclusion, consump-
tion of alcoholic beverages brought on your
premises (whether or not a fee is charged or a
license is required for such activity) will not be
deemed, in itself, to constitute the business of
furnishing, selling or serving alcoholic bever-
ages.

. Workers' Compensation And Similar Laws

Any obligation of the insured under a workers’
compensation, disability benefits or unem-
ployment compensation law or any similar law.

. Employer's Liability
"Bodily injury" to:

(3

—

(4

—

f

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties,

Inc., with its permission

(1) An "employee" of the insured arising out of
and in the course of:

(a) Employment by the insured; or

(b) Performing duties related to the conduct
of the insured's business; or

(2) The spouse, child, parent, brother or sister
of that "employee" as a consequence of
Paragraph (1) above.

This exclusion applies whether the insured
may be liable as an employer or in any other
capacity and to any obligation to share dam-
ages with or repay someone else who must
pay damages because of the injury.

This exclusion does not apply to liability as-
sumed by the insured under an "insured con-
tract".

Pollution

(1) "Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising
out of the actual, alleged or threatened dis-
charge, dispersal, seepage, migration, re-
lease or escape of "pollutants":

(a) At or from any premises, site or location
which is or was at any time owned or
occupied by, or rented or loaned to, any
insured. However, this subparagraph
does not apply to:

(i) "Bodily injury" if sustained within a
building and caused by smoke,
fumes, vapor or soot produced by or
originating from equipment that is
used to heat, cool or dehumidify the
building, or equipment that is used to
heat water for personal use, by the
building's occupants or their guests;

(ii) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"
for which you may be held liable, if
you are a contractor and the owner
or lessee of such premises, site or
location has been added to your pol-
icy as an additional insured with re-
spect to your ongoing operations
performed for that additional insured
at that premises, site or location and
such premises, site or location is not
and never was owned or occupied
by, or rented or loaned to, any in-
sured, other than that additional in-
sured; or

(iii) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"
arising out of heat, smoke or fumes
from a "hostile fire";

(b) At or from any premises, site or location
which is or was at any time used by or
for any insured or others for the han-
dling, storage, disposal, processing or
treatment of waste;

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-17)

187 of 763


--- page 188 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

(c)

(d)

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-

17)

Which are or were at any time trans-
ported, handled, stored, treated, dis-
posed of, or processed as waste by or
for:

(i) Any insured; or

(ii) Any person or organization for whom
you may be legally responsible; or

At or from any premises, site or location
on which any insured or any contractors
or subcontractors working directly or in-
directly on any insured's behalf are per-
forming operations if the "pollutants" are
brought on or to the premises, site or lo-
cation in connection with such opera-
tions by such insured, contractor or
subcontractor. However, this subpara-
graph does not apply to:

(i) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"
arising out of the escape of fuels,
lubricants or other operating fluids
which are needed to perform the
normal electrical, hydraulic or me-
chanical functions necessary for the
operation of "mobile equipment" or
its parts, if such fuels, lubricants or
other operating fluids escape from a
vehicle part designed to hold, store
or receive them. This exception does
not apply if the “bodily injury" or
"property damage" arises out of the
intentional discharge, dispersal or re-
lease of the fuels, lubricants or other
operating fluids, or if such fuels, lub-
ricants or other operating fluids are
brought on or to the premises, site or
location with the intent that they be
discharged, dispersed or released as
part of the operations being per-
formed by such insured, contractor
or subcontractor;

(ii) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"
sustained within a _ building and
caused by the release of gases,
fumes or vapors from materials
brought into that building in connec-
tion with operations being performed
by you or on your behalf by a con-
tractor or subcontractor; or

(iii) "Bodily injury" or "property damage"
arising out of heat, smoke or fumes
from a "hostile fire".

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties, Inc., with
its permission

(e) At or from any premises, site or location
on which any insured or any contractors
or subcontractors working directly or in-
directly on any insured's behalf are per-
forming operations if the operations are
to test for, monitor, clean up, remove,
contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or
in any way respond to, or assess the ef-
fects of, "pollutants".

(2) Any loss, cost or expense arising out of
any:

(a) Request, demand, order or statutory or
regulatory requirement that any insured
or others test for, monitor, clean up, re-
move, contain, treat, detoxify or neutral-
ize, or in any way respond to, or assess
the effects of, "pollutants"; or

(b) Claim or "suit" by or on behalf of a gov-
ernmental authority for damages be-
cause of testing for, monitoring, clean-
ing up, removing, containing, treating,
detoxifying or neutralizing, or in any way
responding to, or assessing the effects
of, "pollutants".

However, this paragraph does not apply to
liability for damages for "property damage"
that the insured would have in the absence
of such request, demand, order or statutory
or regulatory requirement, or such claim or
"suit" by or on behalf of a governmental au-
thority.

. Aircraft, Auto Or Watercraft

"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out
of the ownership, maintenance, use or en-
trustment to others of any aircraft, "auto" or wa-
tercraft owned or operated by or rented or
loaned to any insured. Use includes operation
and “loading or unloading".

This exclusion applies even if the claims
against any insured allege negligence or other
wrongdoing in the supervision, hiring, employ-
ment, training or monitoring of others by that
insured, if the "occurrence" which caused the
"bodily injury" or "property damage" involved
the ownership, maintenance, use or entrust-
ment to others of any aircraft, "auto" or water-
craft that is owned or operated by or rented or
loaned to any insured.

This exclusion does not apply to:

(1) A watercraft while ashore on premises you
own or rent;

(2) A watercraft you do not own that is:
(a) Less than 26 feet long; and

(b) Not being used to carry persons or
property for a charge;

Page 3 of 16

188 of 763


--- page 189 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

(3) Parking an "auto" on, or on the ways next
to, premises you own or rent, provided the
"auto" is not owned by or rented or loaned
to you or the insured;

Liability assumed under any "insured con-
tract" for the ownership, maintenance or
use of aircraft or watercraft; or

"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising

out of:

(a) The operation of machinery or equip-
ment that is attached to, or part of, a
land vehicle that would qualify under the
definition of "mobile equipment" if it
were not subject to a compulsory or fi-
nancial responsibility law or other motor
vehicle insurance law where it is li-
censed or principally garaged; or

(b) The operation of any of the machinery
or equipment listed in Paragraph f.(2) or
f.(3) of the definition of "mobile equip-
ment".

(4

—

(5

—

h. Mobile Equipment

"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out
of:

(1) The transportation of "mobile equipment" by
an "auto" owned or operated by or rented or
loaned to any insured; or

(2) The use of "mobile equipment" in, or while
in practice for, or while being prepared for,
any prearranged racing, speed, demolition,
or stunting activity.

i. Damage To Property

"Property damage" to:

(1) Property you own, rent, or occupy;

(2) Premises you sell, give away or abandon, if
the "property damage" arises out of any
part of those premises;

Property loaned to you;

Personal property in the care, custody or
control of the insured;

(5) That particular part of real property on
which you or any contractors or subcontrac-
tors working directly or indirectly on your
behalf are performing operations, if the
"property damage" arises out of those op-
erations; or

(3
(4

—~—

Paragraphs (1), (3) and (4) of this exclusion do
not apply to "property damage" (other than
damage by fire) to premises, including the con-
tents of such premises, rented to you for a pe-
riod of 7 or fewer consecutive days. A separate
limit of insurance applies to Damage To Prem-
ises Rented To You as described in Section Ill
— Limits Of Insurance.

Paragraph (2) of this exclusion does not apply
if the premises are "your work" and were never
occupied, rented or held for rental by you.

Paragraphs (3), (4), (5) and (6) of this exclu-
sion do not apply to liability assumed under a
sidetrack agreement.

Paragraph (6) of this exclusion does not apply
to "property damage" included in the "products-
completed operations hazard".

. Damage To Your Product

"Property damage" to "your product" arising out
of it or any part of it.

. Damage To Your Work

"Property damage" to "your work" arising out of
it or any part of it and included in the "products-
completed operations hazard".

This exclusion does not apply if the damaged
work or the work out of which the damage
arises was performed on your behalf by a sub-
contractor.

. Damage To Impaired Property Or Property

Not Physically Injured

"Property damage" to "impaired property" or
property that has not been physically injured,
arising out of:

(1) A defect, deficiency, inadequacy or dan-
gerous condition in "your product" or "your
work"; or

(2) A delay or failure by you or anyone acting
on your behalf to perform a contract or
agreement in accordance with its terms.

This exclusion does not apply to the loss of
use of other property arising out of sudden and
accidental physical injury to "your product" or
"your work" after it has been put to its intended
use.

m. Recall Of Products, Work Or Impaired

Property
Damages claimed for any loss, cost or ex-

6) That particular part of any property that ,

(6) must ie restored, repaired ‘or replaced be- pense incurred by you or others for the loss of
cause "your work" was incorrectly per- use, withdrawal, recall, inspection, repair, re-
formed on it. placement, adjustment, removal or disposal of:

(1) "Your product";
(2) "Your work"; or
(3) "Impaired property";
Page 4 of 16 Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties, Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-17)

Inc., with its permission
189 of 763


--- page 190 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

if such product, work, or property is withdrawn
or recalled from the market or from use by any
person or organization because of a known or
suspected defect, deficiency, inadequacy or
dangerous condition in it.

. Personal And Advertising Injury

"Bodily injury" arising out of "advertising injury”
or “personal injury".

Access To Or Disclosure Of Confidential Or
Personal Information And _ Data-Related
Liability

Damages arising out of:

(1) Any access to or disclosure of any person's
or organization's confidential or personal in-
formation, including patents, trade secrets,
processing methods, customer lists, finan-
cial information, credit card information,
health information or any other type of non-
public information; or

(2) The loss of, loss of use of, damage to, cor-
ruption of, inability to access, or inability to
manipulate electronic data.

This exclusion applies even if damages are
claimed for notification costs, credit monitoring
expenses, forensic expenses, public relations
expenses or any other loss, cost or expense
incurred by you or others arising out of that
which is described in Paragraph (1) or (2)
above.

However, unless Paragraph (1) above applies,
this exclusion does not apply to damages be-
cause of "bodily injury”.

As used in this exclusion, electronic data
means information, facts or programs stored
as or on, created or used on, or transmitted to
or from computer software, including systems
and applications software, hard or floppy disks,
CD-ROMS, tapes, drives, cells, data pro-
cessing devices or any other media which are
used with electronically controlled equipment.

Exclusions c. through m. do not apply to damage by
fire to premises while rented to you or temporarily
occupied by you with permission of the owner. A
separate limit of insurance applies to this coverage as
described in Section Ill — Limits Of Insurance.

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-

17)

COVERAGE B PERSONAL AND ADVERTISING
INJURY LIABILITY

1. Insuring Agreement

a.

We will pay damages that the insured be-
comes legally obligated to pay for "advertising
injury” or “personal injury" to which this insur-
ance applies. We will have the right and duty to
defend the insured against any "suit" seeking
those damages. However, we will have no duty
to defend the insured against any "suit" seek-
ing damages for "advertising injury” or “per-
sonal injury" to which this insurance does not
apply. We may, at our discretion, investigate
any offense and settle any claim or "suit" that
may result. But:

(1) The amount we will pay for damages is
limited as described in Section Ill — Limits
Of Insurance; and

(2) Our right and duty to defend end when we
have used up the applicable limit of insur-
ance in the payment of judgments or set-
tlements under Coverages A or B or medi-
cal expenses under Coverage C.

No other obligation or liability to pay sums or
perform acts or services is covered unless ex-
plicitly provided for under Supplementary
Payments — Coverages A and B.

. This insurance applies to "advertising injury” or

“personal injury" caused by an offense arising
out of your business but only if the offense was
committed in the "coverage territory" during the
policy period.

2. Exclusions
This insurance does not apply to:

a.

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties, Inc., with
its permission

Expected Or Intended Injury

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury” arising
out of an offense committed by or on behalf of
the insured, that:

(1) Is intended by such insured; or

(2) Would be expected from the standpoint of a
reasonable person in the circumstances of
such insured;

to cause injury.

. Publications With Knowledge Of Falsity

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury” arising
out of any electronic, oral, written or other pub-
lication of content or material by or with the
consent of the insured:

(1) With knowledge of its falsity; or

(2) If a reasonable person in the circumstances
of such insured would have known such
content or material to be false.

Page 5 of 16

190 of 763


--- page 191 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

c. Prior Offenses

Page 6 of 16

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury” arising
out of any offense first committed before the
beginning of the policy period.

. Crime Or Fraud

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury” arising
out of any criminal or fraudulent conduct com-
mitted by or with the consent or knowledge of
the insured.

. Contracts

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury” for
which the insured is obligated to pay damages
by reason of assumption of liability in a con-
tract or agreement. This exclusion does not
apply to the liability for damages:

(1) That such insured would have in the ab-
sence of such contract or agreement; or

(2) Assumed in a written contract or agreement
that is an “insured contract”, provided the
“advertising injury” or “personal injury” to
which this insurance applies is caused by
an offense first committed after the execu-
tion of such contract or agreement.

. Breach Of Contract

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury” arising
out of breach of contract.

. Failure To Conform To Representations Or

Warranties

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury” arising
out of the failure of goods, products or services
to conform with any electronic, oral, written or
other representation or warranty of durability,
fitness, performance, quality or use.

. Wrong Description Of Prices

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury” arising
out of the wrong description of the price of
goods, products or services.

. Media Type Businesses

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury” arising
out of an offense committed by or on behalf of
an insured whose business is advertising,
broadcasting, cablecasting, publishing, tele-
casting or telemarketing.

This exclusion does not apply to “personal inju-
ry’ caused by an offense described in Para-
graphs 21. a., b. and c. of the definition of
"personal injury” under the Definitions Section.

. Internet Activities

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury” arising
out of:

(1) Controlling, creating, designing or develop-
ing of another’s Internet site;

(2) Controlling, creating, designing, developing,
determining or providing the content or ma-
terial of another’s Internet site;

(3) Controlling, facilitating or providing, or failing
to control, facilitate or provide, access to the
Internet or another’s Internet site; or

(4) Publication of content or material on or from
the Internet, other than material developed
by you to or at your direction.

. Continuing Offenses

"Advertising injury" or “personal injury’ that
arises out of that part of an offense that contin-
ues or resumes after the later of the end of the
policy period of:

(1) This insurance; or

(2) A subsequent, continuous renewal or re-
placement of this insurance, that:

(a) Is issued to you by us or by an affiliate
of ours;

(b) Remains in force while the offense con-
tinues; and

(c) Would otherwise apply to “advertising
injury” and “personal injury”.

. Pollution

"Advertising injury” or “personal injury" arising
out of the actual, alleged or threatened dis-
charge, dispersal, seepage, migration, release
or escape of "pollutants" at any time.

. Pollution-Related

Any loss, cost or expense arising out of any:

(1) Request, demand, order or statutory or
regulatory requirement that any insured or
others test for, monitor, clean up, remove,
contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or in
any way respond to, or assess the effects
of, "pollutants"; or

(2) Claim or suit by or on behalf of a govern-
mental authority for damages because of
testing for, monitoring, cleaning up, remov-
ing, containing, treating, detoxifying or neu-
tralizing, or in any way responding to, or
assessing the effects of, "pollutants".

. Access Or Disclosure Of Confidential Or

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties,

Inc., with its permission

Personal Information

"Personal and advertising injury" arising out of
any access to or disclosure of any person's or
organization's confidential or personal infor-
mation, including patents, trade secrets, pro-
cessing methods, customer lists, financial in-
formation, credit card information, health
information or any other type of nonpublic in-
formation.

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-17)

191 of 763


--- page 192 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

This exclusion applies even if damages are
claimed for notification costs, credit monitoring
expenses, forensic expenses, public relations
expenses or any other loss, cost or expense
incurred by you or others arising out of any
access to or disclosure of any person's or
organization's confidential or personal
information.

COVERAGE C MEDICAL PAYMENTS

1.

2.

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-

17)

Insuring Agreement

a. We will pay medical expenses as described
below for "bodily injury" caused by an accident:

(1) On premises you own or rent;

(2) On ways next to premises you own or rent;
or

(3) Because of your operations;
provided that:

(a) The accident takes place in the "cover-
age territory" and during the policy peri-
od;

(b) The expenses are incurred and reported
to us within one year of the date of the
accident; and

(c) The injured person submits to examina-
tion, at our expense, by physicians of
our choice as often as we reasonably
require.

b. We will make these payments regardless of
fault. These payments will not exceed the ap-
plicable limit of insurance. We will pay reason-
able expenses for:

(1) First aid administered at the time of an
accident;

(2) Necessary medical, surgical, x-ray and
dental services, including prosthetic devic-
es; and

(3) Necessary ambulance, hospital, profes-
sional nursing and funeral services.

Exclusions
We will not pay expenses for "bodily injury":
a. Any Insured
To any insured, except "volunteer workers".
b. Hired Person

To a person hired to do work for or on behalf of
any insured or a tenant of any insured.

c. Injury On Normally Occupied Premises

To a person injured on that part of premises
you own or rent that the person normally occu-
pies.

d. Workers Compensation And Similar Laws

To a person, whether or not an "employee" of
any insured, if benefits for the "bodily injury"
are payable or must be provided under a
workers’ compensation or disability benefits
law or a similar law.

e. Athletics Activities

To a person injured while practicing, instructing
or participating in any physical exercises or
games, sports, or athletic contests.

f. Products-Completed Operations Hazard

Included within the "products-completed opera-
tions hazard".

g. Coverage A Exclusions
Excluded under Coverage A.
COVERAGE FORM EXCLUSIONS

The following exclusions apply to all Coverages in this
Coverage Form and all endorsements attached to it.

1. Asbestos, Silica Or Similar Compounds,
Including Mixed Dust

a. This insurance does not apply to any damages,
loss, cost or expense arising out of the actual,
alleged or threatened contaminative, pathogen-
ic, toxic or other hazardous properties of:

(1) “Asbestos”;
(2) “Silica”; or
(3) “Mixed dust”.

b. This insurance does not apply to any damages,
loss, cost or expense arising, in whole or in
part, out of any:

(1) Demand, order, request or regulatory or
statutory requirement that any insured or
others test for, monitor, clean up, remove,
contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or in
any way respond to, or assess; or

(2) Claim or proceeding by or on behalf of a
governmental authority or others for any
damages, loss, cost or expense because of
testing for, monitoring, cleaning up, remov-
ing, containing, treating, detoxifying or neu-
tralizing, or in any way responding to, or as-
sessing;

the effects of “asbestos”, “silica” or “mixed

dust”.

2. Employment-Related Practices

This insurance does not apply to any damages,
loss, cost or expense sustained at any time by:

a. Any person, whether or not sustained in the
course of employment by any insured, arising
out of any employment-related act, omission,
policy, practice or representation directed at

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties, Inc., with Page 7 of 16

its permission

192 of 763


--- page 193 ---
Page 8 of 16

DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

such person, occurring in whole or in part at
any time, including any:

(1) Arrest, detention or imprisonment;

(2) Breach of any express or implied cove-
nant;

(3) Coercion, criticism, humiliation, prosecu-
tion or retaliation;

(4) Defamation or disparagement;

(5) Demotion, discipline, evaluation or reas-
signment;
(6) Discrimination, harassment or segrega-

tion;
(7) (a) Eviction; or

(b) Invasion or other violation of any right
of occupancy;

(8

—

Failure or refusal to advance, compensate,
employ or promote;

(9

—

Invasion or other violation of any right of
privacy or publicity;

(10)Termination of employment; or

(11)Other employment-related act, omission,
policy, practice, representation or relation-
ship in connection with any insured at any
time.

b. The brother, child, parent, sister or spouse of
such person at whom any employment-related
act, omission, policy, practice or representation
is directed, as described in paragraph a. above,
as a consequence thereof.

This exclusion applies:

i. Whether the insured may be liable as an em-
ployer or in any other capacity; and

ii. To any obligation to share damages with or
repay someone else who must pay damages
because of any of the foregoing.

3. Enhancement, Maintenance Or Prevention Ex-

penses

This insurance does not apply to any loss, cost or
expense incurred by you or others for any:

a. | Enhancement or maintenance of any proper-
ty; or

b. Prevention of any injury or damage to any:
(1) Person or organization; or
(2) Property you own, rent or occupy.

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties,

4. Fungi Or Bacteria

This insurance does not apply to:

a. “Bodily injury’, “property damage”, “personal
injury” or “advertising injury” arising out of the
actual, alleged or threatened contaminative,
pathogenic, toxic or other hazardous
properties of “fungi” or bacteria.

b. Any damages, loss, cost or expense arising out
of any:

(1) Demand, order, request or regulatory or
statutory requirement that any insured or
others test for, monitor, clean up, remove,
contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or in
any way respond to, or assess; or

(2) Claim or proceeding by or on behalf of a
governmental authority or others for any
damages, loss, cost or expense because
of testing for, monitoring, cleaning up, re-
moving, containing, treating, detoxifying or
neutralizing, or in any way responding to,
or assessing;

the effects of “fungi” or bacteria.

Information Laws, Including Unauthorized Or
Unsolicited Communications

This insurance does not apply to any damages,
loss, cost or expense arising out of any actual or
alleged violation of:

a. The United States of America CAN-SPAM Act
of 2003 (or any law amendatory thereof) or any
similar regulatory or statutory law in any other
jurisdiction;

b. The United States of America Telephone Con-
sumer Protection Act (TCPA) of 1991 (or any
law amendatory thereof) or any similar regulato-
ry or statutory law in any other jurisdiction;

c. The United States of America Fair Credit Re-
porting Act (FCRA) (or any law amendatory
thereof including the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act (FACTA)) or any similar regu-
latory or statutory law in any other jurisdiction;
or

d. Any other regulatory or statutory law in any ju-
risdiction that addresses, limits or prohibits the
collecting, communicating, disposal, dissemina-
tion, distribution, monitoring, printing, publica-
tion, recording, sending or transmitting of con-
tent, information or material.

. Intellectual Property Laws And Rights

This insurance does not apply to any damages,
loss, cost or expense arising out of, giving rise to
or in any way related to any actual, alleged or
threatened:

a. Assertion; or
b. — Infringement or violation;

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-17)

Inc., with its permission

193 of 763


--- page 194 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

by any person or organization (including any
insured) of any “intellectual property law or right”.

Further, this insurance does not apply to the
entirety of all allegations in any claim or “suit”, if
such claim or “suit” includes an allegation of or a
reference to an infringement or violation of any
“intellectual property law or right’, even if this
insurance would otherwise apply to any part of the
allegations in the claim or “suit”.

This exclusion applies unless’ the — only
infringement or violation of an “intellectual property
law or right” is an offense described in the
definition of “advertising injury’ to which this
insurance applies.

7. Lead

a. This insurance does not apply to any damages,
loss, cost or expense arising out of the actual,
alleged or threatened contaminative,
pathogenic, toxic or other hazardous properties
of “lead”.

b. This insurance does not apply to any damages,
loss, cost or expense arising, in whole or in
part, out of any:

(1) Demand, order, request or regulatory or
statutory requirement that any insured or
others test for, monitor, clean up, remove,
contain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or in
any way respond to, or assess; or

. All expenses we incur.
. Up to $250 for cost of bail bonds required because

of accidents or traffic law violations arising out of
the use of any vehicle to which the Bodily Injury
Liability Coverage applies. We do not have to fur-
nish these bonds.

. The cost of bonds to release attachments, but only

for bond amounts within the applicable limit of in-
surance. We do not have to furnish these bonds.

. All reasonable expenses incurred by the insured at

our request to assist us in the investigation or de-
fense of the claim or "suit", including actual loss of
earnings up to $250 a day because of time off
from work.

. All court costs taxed against the insured in the

"suit". However, these payments do not include at-
torneys' fees or attorneys' expenses taxed against
the insured.

. Prejudgment interest awarded against the insured

on that part of the judgment we pay. If we make an
offer to pay the applicable limit of insurance, we
will not pay any prejudgment interest based on
that period of time after the offer.

. All interest on the full amount of any judgment that

accrues after entry of the judgment and before we
have paid, offered to pay, or deposited in court the
part of the judgment that is within the applicable
limit of insurance.

(2) Claim or proceeding by or on behalf of a
governmental authority or others for any
damages, loss, cost or expense because of
testing for, monitoring, cleaning up, remov-

These payments will not reduce the limits of insur-
ance.

SECTION II — WHO IS AN INSURED
1. If you are designated in the Declarations as:

ing, containing, treating, detoxifying or neu-
tralizing, or in any way responding to, or as-
sessing;

the effects of “lead”.
8. War

This insurance does not apply to any damages,
loss, cost or expense, however caused, arising, di-
rectly or indirectly, out of:

a. War, including undeclared or civil war;

b. Warlike action by a military force, including ac-
tion in hindering or defending against an actual
or expected attack, by any government, sover-
eign or other authority using military personnel
or other agents; or

c. Insurrection, rebellion, revolution, usurped
power, or action taken by governmental author-
ity in hindering or defending against any of
these.

SUPPLEMENTARY PAYMENTS — COVERAGES A
AND B

We will pay, with respect to any claim we investigate
or settle, or any "suit" against an insured we defend:

a. An individual, you and your spouse are in-
sureds, but only with respect to the conduct of
a business of which you are the sole owner.

b. A partnership or joint venture, you are an in-
sured. Your members, your partners, and their
spouses are also insureds, but only with re-
spect to the conduct of your business.

c. A limited liability company, you are an insured.
Your members are also insureds, but only with
respect to the conduct of your business. Your
managers are insureds, but only with respect
to their duties as your managers.

d. An organization other than a partnership, joint
venture or limited liability company, you are an
insured. Your "executive officers" and directors
are insureds, but only with respect to their du-
ties as your officers or directors. Your stock-
holders are also insureds, but only with respect
to their liability as stockholders.

e. A trust, you are an insured. Your trustees are
also insureds, but only with respect to their du-
ties as trustees.

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09- Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties, Inc., with Page 9 of 16

17)

its permission

194 of 763


--- page 195 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

2. Each of the following is also an insured:

a. Your "volunteer workers" only while performing
duties related to the conduct of your business,
or your "employees", other than either your
"executive officers" (if you are an organization
other than a partnership, joint venture or lim-
ited liability company) or your managers (if you
are a limited liability company), but only for
acts within the scope of their employment by
you or while performing duties related to the
conduct of your business. However, none of
these "employees" or "volunteer workers" are
insureds for:

(1) "Bodily injury", "advertising injury’ or “per-
sonal injury":

(a) To you, to your partners or members (if

you are a partnership or joint venture),

to your members (if you are a limited li-

ability company), to a co-"employee"

while in the course of his or her em-

ployment or performing duties related to

the conduct of your business, or to your

other "volunteer workers" while perform-

ing duties related to the conduct of your
business;

(b) To the spouse, child, parent, brother or
sister of that co-"employee” or "volun-
teer worker" as a consequence of Para-
graph (1)(a) above;

(c) For which there is any obligation to
share damages with or repay someone
else who must pay damages for the in-
jury described in Paragraphs (1)(a) or
(b) above; or

(d) Arising out of his or her providing or
failing to provide professional health
care services.

(2) "Property damage" to property:
(a) Owned, occupied or used by,

(b) Rented to, in the care, custody or con-
trol of, or over which physical control is
being exercised for any purpose by

you, any of your "employees", "volunteer
workers", any partner or member (if you are
a partnership or joint venture), or any
member (if you are a limited liability com-
pany).
b. Any person (other than your "employee" or
"volunteer worker"), or any organization while
acting as your real estate manager.

c. Any person or organization having proper
temporary custody of your property if you die,
but only:

(1) With respect to liability arising out of the
maintenance or use of that property; and

Page 10 of 16

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties,

(2) Until your legal representative has been
appointed.

d. Your legal representative if you die, but only
with respect to duties as such. That repre-
sentative will have all your rights and duties
under this Coverage Part.

3. Any organization you newly acquire or form, other
than a partnership, joint venture or limited liability
company, and over which you maintain ownership
or majority interest, will qualify as a Named In-
sured if there is no other similar insurance availa-
ble to that organization. However,coverage under
this provision is afforded only until the 90th day af-
ter you acquire or form the organization or the end
of the policy period, whichever is earlier.

No person or organization is an insured with respect
to the conduct of any current or past partnership, joint
venture or limited liability company that is not shown
as a Named Insured in the Declarations.

No person or organization is an insured with respect
to the:

a. Ownership, maintenance or use of any assets; or

b. Conduct of any person or organization whose
assets, business or organization;

you acquire, either directly or indirectly, for any:

a. “Bodily injury” or “property damage” that occurred;
or

b. “Advertising injury” or “personal injury” arising out
of an offense first committed;

in whole or in part, before you, directly or indirectly,

acquired such assets, business or organization.

SECTION IIl — LIMITS OF INSURANCE

1. The Limits of Insurance shown in the Declarations
and the rules below fix the most we will pay re-
gardless of the number of:

a. Insureds;

b. Claims made or "suits" brought; or

c. Persons or organizations making claims or
bringing "suits".

2. The General Aggregate Limit is the most we will

pay for the sum of:

a. Medical expenses under Coverage C; and

b. Damages under Coverage A, except damages
for "bodily injury" or "property damage" includ-
ed in the "products-completed operations haz-
ard”.

3. The Products-Completed Operations Aggregate
Limit is the most we will pay under Coverage A for
damages for "bodily injury" and "property damage"
included in the "products-completed operations
hazard".

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-17)

Inc., with its permission

195 of 763


--- page 196 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

. The Personal and Advertising Injury Aggregate

Limit is the most we will pay for the sum of dam-
ages under Coverage B.

. Subject to Paragraph 2. or 3. above, whichever

applies, the Each Occurrence Limit is the most we
will pay for the sum of:

a. Damages under Coverage A; and
b. Medical expenses under Coverage C

for all "bodily injury" and "property damage" arising
out of any one "occurrence".

. Subject to Paragraph 5. above, the Damage To

Premises Rented To You Limit is the most we will
pay under Coverage A for damages for "property
damage" to any one premises, while rented to
you, or in the case of damage by fire, while rented
to you or temporarily occupied by you with per-
mission of the owner.

. Subject to Paragraph 5. above, the Medical Ex-

pense Limit is the most we will pay under Cover-
age C for all medical expenses because of "bodily
injury" sustained by any one person.

The Limits of Insurance of this Coverage Part apply
separately to each consecutive annual period and to
any remaining period of less than 12 months, starting
with the beginning of the policy period shown in the
Declarations, unless the policy period is extended
after issuance for an additional period of less than 12
months. In that case, the additional period will be
deemed part of the last preceding period for purposes
of determining the Limits of Insurance.

SECTION IV —- COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
CONDITIONS

1.

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-

17)

Bankruptcy

Bankruptcy or insolvency of the insured or of the
insured's estate will not relieve us of our obliga-
tions under this Coverage Part.

. Duties In The Event Of Occurrence, Offense,

Claim Or Suit

a. You must see to it that we are notified as soon
as practicable of an "occurrence" or an offense
which may result in a claim. To the extent pos-
sible, notice should include:

(1) How, when and where the "occurrence" or
offense took place;

(2) The names and addresses of any injured
persons and witnesses; and

(3) The nature and location of any injury or
damage arising out of the "occurrence" or
offense.

b. If a claim is made or "suit" is brought against
any insured, you must:

(1) Immediately record the specifics of the
claim or "suit" and the date received; and

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties, Inc., with
its permission

(2) Notify us as soon as practicable.

You must see to it that we receive written no-
tice of the claim or "suit" as soon as practica-
ble.

c. You and any other involved insured must:

(1) Immediately send us copies of any de-
mands, notices, summonses or legal pa-
pers received in connection with the claim
or "suit";

(2) Authorize us to obtain records and other
information;

(3) Cooperate with us in the investigation or
settlement of the claim or defense against
the "suit"; and

(4) Assist us, upon our request, in the en-
forcement of any right against any person
or organization which may be liable to the
insured for injury or damage to which this
insurance may also apply.

d. No insured will, except at that insured's own
cost, voluntarily make a payment, assume any
obligation, or incur any expense, other than for
first aid, without our consent.

. Legal Action Against Us

No person or organization has a right under this
Coverage Part:

a. To join us as a party or otherwise bring us into
a "suit" asking for damages from an insured; or

b. To sue us on this Coverage Part unless all of
its terms have been fully complied with.

A person or organization may sue us to recover on
an agreed settlement or on a final judgment
against an insured; but we will not be liable for
damages that are not payable under the terms of
this Coverage Part or that are in excess of the ap-
plicable limit of insurance. An agreed settlement
means a settlement and release of liability signed
by us, the insured and the claimant or the claim-
ant's legal representative.

. Other Insurance

If other valid and collectible insurance is available
to the insured for a loss we cover under Coverag-
es A or B of this Coverage Part, our obligations
are limited as follows:

a. Primary Insurance

This insurance is primary except when Para-
graph b. below applies. If this insurance is pri-
mary, our obligations are not affected unless
any of the other insurance is also primary.
Then, we will share with all that other insur-
ance by the method described in Paragraph c.
below.

Page 11 of 16

196 of 763


--- page 197 ---
Page 12 of 16

DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

b. Excess Insurance
(1) This insurance is excess over:

(a) Any of the other insurance, whether
primary, excess, contingent or on any
other basis:

(i) That is Fire, Extended Coverage,
Builder's Risk, Installation Risk or
similar coverage for "your work";

(ii) That is Fire insurance for premises
rented to you or temporarily occu-
pied by you with permission of the
owner;

(iii) That is insurance purchased by you
to cover your liability as a tenant for
"property damage" to premises rent-
ed to you or temporarily occupied by
you with permission of the owner; or

(iv) If the loss arises out of the mainte-
nance or use of aircraft, "autos" or
watercraft.

(b) Any other primary insurance available to
you covering liability for damages aris-
ing out of the premises or operations, or
the products and completed operations,
for which you have been added as an
additional insured.

(2) When this insurance is excess, we will have
no duty under Coverages A or B to defend
the insured against any "suit" if any other
insurer has a duty to defend the insured
against that "suit". If no other insurer de-
fends, we will undertake to do so, but we
will be entitled to the insured's rights
against all those other insurers.

(3) When this insurance is excess over other
insurance, we will pay only our share of the
amount of the loss, if any, that exceeds the
sum of:

(a) The total amount that all such other
insurance would pay for the loss in the
absence of this insurance; and

(b) The total of all deductible and self-
insured amounts under all that other in-
surance.

(4) We will share the remaining loss, if any,
with any other insurance that is not de-
scribed in this Excess Insurance provision
and was not bought specifically to apply in
excess of the Limits of Insurance shown in
the Declarations of this Coverage Part.

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties,

c. Method Of Sharing

If all of the other insurance permits contribution
by equal shares, we will follow this method al-
so. Under this approach each insurer contrib-
utes equal amounts until it has paid its appli-
cable limit of insurance or none of the loss
remains, whichever comes first.

If any of the other insurance does not permit
contribution by equal shares, we will contribute
by limits. Under this method, each insurer's
share is based on the ratio of its applicable lim-
it of insurance to the total applicable limits of
insurance of all insurers.

5. Premium Audit

a. We will compute all premiums for this Cover-
age Part in accordance with our rules and
rates.

b. We may audit your books and records as they
relate to this insurance at any time during the
term of this policy and up to three years after-
wards.

c. The first Named Insured must keep records of
the information we need for premium computa-
tion, and send us copies at such times as we
may request.

. Representations

By accepting this policy, you agree:

a. The statements in the Declarations are accu-
rate and complete;

b. Those statements are based upon representa-
tions you made to us; and

c. We have issued this policy in reliance upon
your representations.

. Separation Of Insureds

Except with respect to the Limits of Insurance, and
any rights or duties specifically assigned in this
Coverage Part to the first Named Insured, this in-
surance applies:

a. As if each Named Insured were the only
Named Insured; and

b. Separately to each insured against whom
claim is made or "suit" is brought.

. Transfer Or Waiver Of Rights Of Recovery

Against Others To Us

We will waive the right of recovery we would oth-
erwise have had against another person or organ-
ization, for loss to which this insurance applies,
provided the insured has waived their rights of re-
covery against such person or organization in a
contract or agreement that is executed before
such loss.

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-17)

Inc., with its permission

197 of 763


--- page 198 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

9.

To the extent that the insured’s rights to recover
all or part of any payment made under this Cover-
age Part have not been waived, those rights are
transferred to us. The insured must do nothing af-
ter loss to impair them. At our request, the insured
will bring "suit" or transfer those rights to us and
help us enforce them.

This condition does not apply to Coverage C.
When We Do Not Renew

If we decide not to renew this Coverage Part, we
will mail or deliver to the first Named Insured
shown in the Declarations written notice of the
nonrenewal not less than 30 days before the expi-
ration date.

If notice is mailed, proof of mailing will be sufficient
proof of notice.

SECTION V — DEFINITIONS

1.

"Advertisement" means an electronic, oral, written
or other notice, about goods, products or services,
designed for the specific purpose of attracting the
general public or a specific market segment to use
such goods, products or services.

“Advertisement” does not include any e-mail ad-
dress, Internet domain name or other electronic
address or metalanguage.

. “Advertising injury” means injury, other than “bodi-

3 6b

ly injury’, “property damage” or “personal injury’,
sustained by a person or organization and caused
by an offense of infringing, in that particular part of
your “advertisement” about your goods, products
or services, upon their:

a. Copyrighted “advertisement”; or

b. Registered collective mark, registered service
mark or other registered trademarked name,
slogan, symbol or title.

. “Asbestos” means asbestos in any form, including

its presence or use in any alloy, by-product, com-
pound or other material or waste. Waste includes
materials to be recycled, reconditioned or re-
claimed.

. "Auto" means:

a. A land motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer de-
signed for travel on public roads, including any
attached machinery or equipment; or

b. Any other land vehicle that is subject to a com-
pulsory or financial responsibility law or other
motor vehicle insurance law where it is li-
censed or principally garaged.

However, "auto" does not include "mobile equip-
ment".

5."Bodily injury" means physical:

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-
17)

a. Injury;

b. Sickness; or
c. Disease;

sustained by a person, including resulting death,
humiliation, mental anguish, mental injury or shock
at any time. All such loss shall be deemed to oc-
cur at the time of the physical injury, sickness or
disease that caused it.

. "Coverage territory" means:

a. The United States of America (including its
territories and possessions), Puerto Rico and
Canada;

b. International waters or airspace, but only if the
injury or damage occurs in the course of travel
or transportation between any places included
in Paragraph a. above; or

c. All other parts of the world if the injury or dam-
age arises out of:

(1) Goods or products made or sold by you in
the territory described in Paragraph a.
above;

(2) The activities of a person whose home is in
the territory described in Paragraph a.
above, but is away for a short time on your
business; or

(3) "Advertising injury’ or “personal injury"
offenses that take place through the Inter-
net or similar electronic means of commu-
nication

provided the insured's responsibility to pay dam-
ages is determined in a "suit" on the merits, in the
territory described in Paragraph a. above or in a
settlement we agree to.

. "Employee" includes a "leased worker". "Employ-

ee" does not include a "temporary worker".

. "Executive officer" means a person holding any of

the officer positions created by your charter, con-
stitution, by-laws or any other similar governing
document.

. “Fungi” means any type or form of fungus, includ-

ing mold or mildew and any mycotoxins, spores,
scents or byproducts produced or released by
fungi.

10."Hostile fire" means one which becomes uncontrol-

11

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties, Inc., with
its permission

lable or breaks out from where it was intended to
be.

"Impaired property" means tangible property, other

than "your product" or "your work", that cannot be
used or is less useful because:

a. It incorporates "your product" or "your work"
that is known or thought to be defective, defi-
cient, inadequate or dangerous; or

b. You have failed to fulfill the terms of a contract
or agreement;

Page 13 of 16

198 of 763


--- page 199 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

if such property can be restored to use by the re- 13. “Intellectual property law or right” means any:
ood replacement. adjstment a lone t your a. Certification mark, copyright, patent or trade-
of the contract or agreement. uiming me terms mark (including collective or service marks);
42."Insured contract" means: b. Right to, or judicial or statutory law recognizing
. an interest in, any trade secret or confidential
a. A contract for a lease of premises. However, or proprietary non-personal information;
that portion of the contract for a lease of prem- . re
ises that indemnifies any person or organiza- c. Other right to, or judicial or statutory law rec-
tion for damage by fire to premises while rent- ognizing an interest in, any expression, idea,
ed to you or temporarily occupied by you with likeness, name, slogan, style of doing busi-
permission of the owner is not an "insured con- ness, symbol, title, trade dress or other intel-
tract": lectual property; or
b. A sidetrack agreement; d. Other judicial or statutory law concerning pira-
c. Any easement or license agreement, except in cy, passing off or similar practices.
connection with construction or demolition op- 14. “Lead” means the element lead in any form, in-
erations on or within 50 feet of a railroad; cluding its presence or use in any alloy, by-

d. An obligation, as required by ordinance, to
indemnify a municipality, except in connection
with work for a municipality;

e. An elevator maintenance agreement;

product, compound or other material or waste.
Waste includes materials to be recycled, recondi-
tioned or reclaimed.

15."Leased worker" means a person leased to you by
a labor leasing firm under an agreement between

f. That part of any other contract or agreement you and the labor leasing firm, to perform duties
pertaining to your business (including an in- related to the conduct of your business. "Leased
demnification of a municipality in connection worker" does not include a "temporary worker".

with work performed for a municipality) under
which you assume the tort liability of another
party to pay for "bodily injury" or "property

damage" to a third person or organization. Tort a.

liability means a liability that would be imposed
by law in the absence of any contract or

agreement. b
Paragraph f. does not include that part of any
contract or agreement: Cc

(1) That indemnifies a railroad for "bodily inju-
ry" or "property damage" arising out of con-

16."Loading or unloading" means the handling of
property:

After it is moved from the place where it is
accepted for movement into or onto an aircraft,
watercraft or "auto";

. While it is in or on an aircraft, watercraft or

"auto"; or

. While it is being moved from an aircraft, water-

craft or "auto" to the place where it is finally de-
livered;

struction or demolition operations, within 50 but "loading or unloading" does not include the
feet of any railroad property and affecting movement of property by means of a mechanical
any railroad bridge or trestle, tracks, road- device, other than a hand truck, that is not at-
beds, tunnel, underpass or crossing; tached to the aircraft, watercraft or "auto".

(2) That indemnifies an architect, engineer or 17. “Mixed dust” means any combination or mixture of
surveyor for injury or damage arising out of: “asbestos” or “silica” and any other dust, fibers or
(a) Preparing, approving, or failing to pre- particles, in any form, including any presence or

pare or approve, maps, shop drawings, use in any alloy, by-product, compound or other

opinions, reports, surveys, field orders, material or waste. Waste includes materials to be

change orders or drawings and specifi- recycled, reconditioned or reclaimed.

cations; or 18."Mobile equipment" means any of the following
(b) Giving directions or instructions, or types of land vehicles, including any attached ma-

failing to give them, if that is the primary chinery or equipment:

cause of the injury or damage; or a. Bulldozers, farm machinery, forklifts and other

(3) Under which the insured, if an architect,
engineer or surveyor, assumes liability for
an injury or damage arising out of the in- b
sured's rendering or failure to render pro-
fessional services, including those listed in

vehicles designed for use principally off public
roads;

. Vehicles maintained for use solely on or next

to premises you own or rent;

(2) above and supervisory, inspection, ar- c. Vehicles that travel on crawler treads;
chitectural or engineering activities.
Page 14 of 16 Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties, Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-17)

Inc., with its permission

199 of 763


--- page 200 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

d.

zh

Vehicles, whether self-propelled or not, main-
tained primarily to provide mobility to perma-
nently mounted:

(1) Power cranes, shovels, loaders, diggers or
drills; or

(2) Road construction or resurfacing equipment
such as graders, scrapers or rollers;

. Vehicles not described in Paragraph a., b., c.

or d. above that are not self-propelled and are

maintained primarily to provide mobility to

permanently attached equipment of the follow-
ing types:

(1) Air compressors, pumps and generators,
including spraying, welding, building clean-
ing, geophysical exploration, lighting and
well servicing equipment; or

(2) Cherry pickers and similar devices used to
raise or lower workers;

Vehicles not described in Paragraph a., b., c.
or d. above maintained primarily for purposes
other than the transportation of persons or car-
go.

However, self-propelled vehicles with the fol-
lowing types of permanently attached equip-
ment are not "mobile equipment" but will be
considered "autos":

(1) Equipment designed primarily for:
(a) Snow removal;

(b) Road maintenance, but not construction
or resurfacing; or

(c) Street cleaning;

(2) Cherry pickers and similar devices mounted
on automobile or truck chassis and used to
raise or lower workers; and

Air compressors, pumps and generators,
including spraying, welding, building clean-
ing, geophysical exploration, lighting and
well servicing equipment.

(3)

However, "mobile equipment" does not include
any land vehicles that are subject to a compulsory
or financial responsibility law or other motor vehi-
cle insurance law where it is licensed or principally
garaged. Land vehicles subject to a compulsory or
financial responsibility law or other motor vehicle
insurance law are considered "autos".

19."Occurrence" means an accident, including con-
tinuous or repeated exposure to substantially the
same general harmful conditions.

20."Personal and advertising injury" means:

a.
b.

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-

17)

“Advertising injury”; or
Personal injury“.

21. “Personal injury” means injury, other than “bodily
injury’, “property damage’ or “advertising injury’,
caused by an offense of:

a. False arrest, false detention or other false im-

b.
c.

prisonment;
Malicious prosecution;

Wrongful entry into, wrongful eviction of a
person from or other violation of a person's
right of private occupancy of a dwelling, prem-
ises or room that such person occupies, if
committed by or on behalf of its landlord, les-
sor or owner; or

. Electronic, oral, written or other publication of
material that:

(1) Libels or slanders a person or organiza-
tion (which does not include disparage-
ment of goods, products, property or ser-
vices); or

(2) Violates a person's right of privacy.

22."Pollutants" mean any solid, liquid, gaseous or

th

ermal irritant or contaminant, including smoke,

vapor, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, chemicals and
waste. Waste includes materials to be recycled,
reconditioned or reclaimed.

23."Products-completed operations hazard":

a.

b.

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties, Inc., with
its permission

Includes all "bodily injury" and "property dam-
age" occurring away from premises you own or
rent and arising out of "your product" or "your
work" except:

(1) Products that are still in your physical pos-
session; or

(2) Work that has not yet been completed or
abandoned. However, "your work" will be
deemed completed at the earliest of the fol-
lowing times:

(a) When all of the work called for in your
contract has been completed.

When all of the work to be done at the
job site has been completed if your con-
tract calls for work at more than one job
site.

When that part of the work done at a job
site has been put to its intended use by
any person or organization other than
another contractor or subcontractor
working on the same project.

Work that may need service, maintenance,
correction, repair or replacement, but which
is otherwise complete, will be treated as
completed.

(b)

(c)

Does not include "bodily injury" or “property
damage" arising out of:

Page 15 of 16

200 of 763


--- page 201 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

(1) The transportation of property, unless the
injury or damage arises out of a condition in
or on a vehicle not owned or operated by
you, and that condition was created by the
"loading or unloading" of that vehicle by any
insured;

(2

—

The existence of tools, uninstalled equip-
ment or abandoned or unused materials; or

(3

—

Products or operations for which the classi-
fication, listed in the Declarations or in a
policy schedule, states that products-
completed operations are subject to the
General Aggregate Limit.

24."Property damage" means:

a. Physical injury to tangible property, including
all resulting loss of use of that property. All
such loss of use shall be deemed to occur at
the time of the physical injury that caused it; or

b. Loss of use of tangible property that is not
physically injured. All such loss of use shall be
deemed to occur at the time of the "occur-
rence" that caused it.

For the purposes of this insurance, electronic data
is not tangible property.

As used in this definition, electronic data means
information, facts or programs stored as or on,
created or used on, or transmitted to or from com-
puter software, including systems and applications
software, hard or floppy disks, CD-ROMS, tapes,
drives, cells, data processing devices or any other
media which are used with electronically con-
trolled equipment.

25. “Silica” means silica in any form (including sili-
cates or other similar silicon compounds), includ-
ing its presence or use in any alloy, by-product,
compound or other material or waste. Waste in-
cludes materials to be recycled, reconditioned or
reclaimed.

26."Suit" means a civil proceeding in which damages
for "bodily injury", "property damage" or "personal
and advertising injury" to which this insurance ap-
plies are alleged. "Suit" includes:

a. An arbitration proceeding in which such dam-
ages are claimed and to which the insured
must submit or does submit with our consent;
or

b. Any other alternative dispute resolution pro-
ceeding in which such damages are claimed
and to which the insured submits with our con-
sent.

27."Temporary worker" means a person who is fur-
nished to you to substitute for a permanent "em-
ployee" on leave or to meet seasonal or short-term
workload conditions.

Page 16 of 16

Includes copyrighted material of ISO Properties,

28."Volunteer worker" means a person who is not
your "employee", and who donates his or her work
and acts at the direction of and within the scope of
duties determined by you, and is not paid a fee,
salary or other compensation by you or anyone
else for their work performed for you.

29."Your product":
a. Means:

(1) Any goods or products, other than real
property, manufactured, sold, handled, dis-
tributed or disposed of by:

(a) You;

(b) Others trading under your name; or

(c) A person or organization whose busi-
ness or assets you have acquired; and

(2) Containers (other than vehicles), materials,
parts or equipment furnished in connection
with such goods or products.

b. Includes:

(1) Warranties or representations made at any
time with respect to the fitness, quality, du-
rability, performance or use of "your prod-
uct"; and

(2) The providing of or failure to provide warn-
ings or instructions.

c. Does not include vending machines or other
property rented to or located for the use of oth-
ers but not sold.

30."Your work":
a. Means:

(1) Work or operations performed by you or on
your behalf; and

(2) Materials, parts or equipment furnished in
connection with such work or operations.

b. Includes:

(1) Warranties or representations made at any
time with respect to the fitness, quality, du-
rability, performance or use of "your work",
and

(2) The providing of or failure to provide warn-
ings or instructions.

Form 10-02-1800 (Rev. 09-17)

Inc., with its permission

201 of 763


--- page 202 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6728453F-88C2-4 103-86D6-A31F4A6C782D

Workers' Compensation and Employers' Liability Policy

Named Insured Endorsement Number
McGuire and Hester Policy Number
Symbol: WCF Number: 54303065
Policy Period Effective Date of Endorsement
7/01/2022TO 7/01/2023 07/01/2022

Issued By (Name of Insurance Company)
FEDERAL INSURANCE
Insert the policy number. The remainder of the information is to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to the preparation of the policy.

CALIFORNIA WAIVER OF OUR RIGHT TO RECOVER FROM OTHERS ENDORSEMENT

This endorsement applies only to the insurance provided by the policy because California is shown in Item 3.A. of
the Information Page.

We have the right to recover our payments from anyone liable for an injury covered by this policy. We will not
enforce our right against the person or organization named in the Schedule, but this waiver applies only with respect
to bodily injury arising out of the operations described in the Schedule, where you are required by a written contract
to obtain this waiver from us.

You must maintain payroll records accurately segregating the remuneration of your employees while engaged in the
work described in the Schedule.
Schedule

1. ( ) Specific Waiver
Name of person or organization:

( X). Blanket Waiver
Any person or organization for whom the Named Insured has agreed by written contract to furnish this
waiver.

2. Operations:
ALL

3. Premium:

The premium charge for this endorsement shallbe 1.0 _ percent of the California premium developed
on payroll in connection with work performed for the above person(s) or organization(s) arising out of the
operations described.

4. Minimum Premium: $0

rhiny Gregory

Authorized Representative

WC 90 03 75 (05/18)

202 of 763


--- page 203 ---
Certificate Of Completion

Envelope Id: 6728453F88C2410386D6A31F4A6C782D
Subject: PW - McGuire and Hester - Agreement - Citywide Street Reconstruction Phase 4

Source Envelope:

Document Pages: 40
Certificate Pages: 5

AutoNav: Enabled

Envelopeld Stamping: Enabled

Signatures: 1
Initials: 0

Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)

Record Tracking

Status: Original
5/31/2023 9:14:34 AM

Signer Events

Brock Grunt
bgrunt@mcguireandhester.com
President

McGuire and Hester

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Accepted: 5/31/2023 5:10:19 PM
ID: 311da2bb-9a12-484f-a0f2-7349eae87bae

Ryan Lukehart
rlukehart@cityofsanmateo.org
Accounting Assistant II

City of San Mateo

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign

Linh Nguyen
Inguyen@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Accepted: 5/31/2023 11:09:51 AM

ID: 5a0aa899-4bb6-4 131-806 1-d22573b97c41

Azalea Mitch
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Accepted: 5/31/2023 6:51:09 PM
ID: fObba6ca-Ocb7-4ebc-bb6 1-dc04bdf1 1644

In Person Signer Events
Editor Delivery Events

Agent Delivery Events

Holder: Ryan Lukehart
rlukehart@cityofsanmateo.org

Signature

Broce Grunt

Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 12.215.236.34

Signature
Status

Status

DocuSign

Status: Sent

Envelope Originator:

Ryan Lukehart

330 W. 20th Avenue

City Clerk's Office

San Mateo, CA 94403
rlukehart@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 76.14.0.98

Location: DocuSign

Timestamp

Sent: 5/31/2023 9:40:02 AM
Viewed: 5/31/2023 5:10:19 PM
Signed: 6/1/2023 10:27:38 AM

Sent: 6/1/2023 10:27:43 AM

Timestamp
Timestamp

Timestamp

203 of 763


--- page 204 ---
Intermediary Delivery Events Status

Certified Delivery Events Status
Carbon Copy Events Status
Alesha Boyd

aboyd@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign

Erin Fellers
Efellers@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Not Offered via DocuSign

Elton Yee
eyee@cityofsanmateo.org

Security Level: Email, Account Authentication
(None)

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure:
Accepted: 5/22/2023 8:52:25 AM
ID: 4ae0e756-556e-4ee8-9dc5-ab0b0ab9d2c3

Witness Events Signature
Notary Events Signature
Envelope Summary Events Status
Envelope Sent Hashed/Encrypted
Payment Events Status

Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure

Timestamp
Timestamp

Timestamp

Timestamp
Timestamp

Timestamps
5/31/2023 9:40:02 AM

Timestamps

204 of 763


--- page 205 ---
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 6/13/2017 8:08:23 AM
Parties agreed to: Brock Grunt, Linh Nguyen, Azalea Mitch, Elton Yee

CONSUMER DISCLOSURE

From time to time, Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo (we, us or Company) may be required by
law to provide to you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and
conditions for providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through the
DocuSign, Inc. (DocuSign) electronic signing system. Please read the information below
carefully and thoroughly, and if you can access this information electronically to your
satisfaction and agree to these terms and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking
the ‘I agree’ button at the bottom of this document.

Getting paper copies

At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. You will have the ability to download and print documents we send
to you through the DocuSign system during and immediately after signing session and, if you
elect to create a DocuSign signer account, you may access them for a limited period of time
(usually 30 days) after such documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to
send you paper copies of any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a
$0.00 per-page fee. You may request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the
procedure described below.

Withdrawing your consent

If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below.

Consequences of changing your mind

If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign ‘Withdraw Consent’ form on the signing page of a
DocuSign envelope instead of signing it. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your
consent to receive required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer
be able to use the DocuSign system to receive required notices and consents electronically from
us or to sign electronically documents from us.

All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically

Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through the DocuSign system all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures

205 of 763


--- page 206 ---
electronically from us.

How to contact Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo:

You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:

To contact us by email send messages to: cravi@cityofsanmateo.org

To advise Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo of your new e-mail address
To let us know of a change in your e-mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in
the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e-mail address.
We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc. to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e-mail in the DocuSign system.
To request paper copies from Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the
body of such request you must state your e-mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any.
To withdraw your consent with Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign session, and on the subsequent
page, select the check-box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the body of such request you
must state your e-mail, full name, US Postal Address, and telephone number. We do not
need any other information from you to withdraw consent.. The consequences of your
withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions may take a longer time
to process..

Required hardware and software

Windows® 2000, Windows® XP, Windows
Vista®; Mac OS® X

Final release versions of Internet Explorer® 6.0
or above (Windows only); Mozilla Firefox 2.0
or above (Windows and Mac); Safari™ 3.0 or

above (Mac only)
Acrobat® or similar software may be required
to view and print PDF files

creen Resolution: 800 x 600 minimum

Enabled Security Settings: Allow per session cookies

** These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, you will be
asked to re-accept the disclosure. Pre-release (e.g. beta) versions of operating systems and
browsers are not supported.

Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically

206 of 763


--- page 207 ---
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you were
able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to e-mail
this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or save it for
your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and disclosures
exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above, please let us know
by clicking the ‘I agree’ button below.

By checking the ‘I agree’ box, I confirm that:

¢ Ican access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC CONSUMER DISCLOSURES document; and

¢ Ican print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and

¢ Until or unless I notify Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo as described above, I consent to
receive from exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures, authorizations,
acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or made
available to me by Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo during the course of my
relationship with you.

207 of 763


--- page 208 ---
B
3RD
DELAWARE
5TH
NORFOLK
31ST
US HWY 101 SB
US HWY 101 NB
HILLSDALE
PALM
STATE HWY 92 EB
STATE HWY 92 WB
4TH
28TH
9TH
GRANT
IDAHO
36TH
26TH
30TH
HUMBOLDT
41ST
20TH
37TH
42ND
19TH
2ND
KEHOE
40TH
39TH
MAPLE
24TH
22ND
EL CAMINO REAL
23RD
27TH
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS
EDISON
TILTON
CLAREMONT
AVILA
CLARK
BELLEVUE
16TH
BAYSHORE
HACIENDA
PENINSULA
SAN MATEO
DE ANZA
FREMONT
DIX
SARATOGA
29TH
1ST
ELM
FLORES
LODI
MARTIN
SYLVAN
PARROTT
25TH
BRANSON
J HART CLINTON
BIRCH
YEW
PICO
SEVILLE
POLHEMUS
OAK
NORTON
ARAGON
DALE
ROBERTA
ELLSWORTH
VIRGINIA
NEVADA
HARVARD
WARREN
EDINBURGH
CONCAR
CURTISS
QUEBEC
GRAND
ROYAL
VILLA
MASON
BAZE
OTAY
SHOREVIEW
FIESTA
CSM
10TH
CRYSTAL SPRINGS
HIGHLAND
POPLAR
INDIAN
PATRICIA
FASHION ISLAND
12TH
BERMUDA
RAND
LA SELVA
11TH
FRANKLIN
COBB
15TH
14TH
13TH
PASADENA
ELDORADO
RAILROAD
SONORA
TILIA
PARKWOOD
MONTEREY
EDGEWOOD
LAUREL
YORK
POINSETTIA
17TH
LA CASA
CASANOVA
ORINDA
MARINERS ISLAND
BARROILHET
NOTRE DAME
BARNESON
CASTILIAN
CYPRESS
YALE
LOUISE
FAIRFAX
NEWBRIDGE
GLENDORA
ALLEY
AIRPORT
38TH
43RD
THIRD
KINGS
HEMLOCK
CRESCENT
HOBART
HAMLET
OCCIDENTAL
FERNWOOD
NADINA
GUM
KINGRIDGE
COSTA RICA
BOREL
SUNNYBRAE
CAMPUS
PRAGUE
PACIFIC
ADA
DAY
LAGO
HOLLAND
AMPHLETT
OTTAWA
IVY
WAYNE
BORDEN
KINGSTON
ENSENADA
LOS PRADOS
BROMFIELD
WOLFE
SUNSET
8TH
7TH
6TH
KYNE
ECHO
FALLON
NORTH
MAXINE
SHASTA
OCEAN VIEW
NASH
DAVID
SEQUOIA
OREGON
LAURELWOOD
LESLIE
MC LELLAN
PARK
PORTOLA
YATES
NOE
WILSHIRE
STATE
LOS ALTOS
CARLISLE
MURPHY
IOWA
COLEGROVE
ARMADA
EISENHOWER
FAIRMONT
BAKER
BOVET
MONTE DIABLO
VENTURA
TROLLMAN
REGAN
O NEILL
SHOAL
HURLINGHAM
CUESTA
RAMONA
MARINA
REX
QUEENS
DONNER
FOLKSTONE
WOODSIDE
OSO
CHURCH
SHAFTER
BALDWIN
VANBUREN
ANNAPOLIS
LIVE OAK
MISSION
EDNA
HOWE
COLUMBIA
CLEARVIEW
COUNTRYSIDE
FATHOM
OVERLAND
BRIAR
SOUTH
ANNA
WASHINGTON
JOANNE
GREENFIELD
BEACON
ADAMS
VERDUN
CHERRYWOOD
HURON
ASHWOOD
ROSSI
LOLA
KALMIA
MIDWAY
RHUS
POLK
HOSMER
PLAYA
BUCKNELL
DEWEY
GUILDFORD
LAKE
PECK
BROOKS
ARBOR
RANELAGH
CONNIE
LAURIE MEADOWS
BAYWOOD
DETROIT
TEXAS
ROLLING HILLS
CELESTE
LOCUST
RANDALL
FOOTHILL
EL CERRITO
ROSILIE
SANTA INEZ
CLIPPER
DE SABLA
GARFIELD
GARVEY
LLANO
ISABELLE
CRESTWOOD
BRIDGEPOINTE
PROSPECT ROW
ARROYO
JASMINE
JUNIPER
PIERCE
DUBLIN
MONROE
CHESS
PARKSIDE
CAVANAUGH
OAKWOOD
ARK
LAFAYETTE
MAGNOLIA
HAYWARD
VERNON
DOLAN
CAXTON
KENWOOD
TAYLOR
WISNOM
COYOTE POINT
ROCHESTER
WOODLAND
FORDHAM
QUINCE
HARROW
KING
TIMBERLANE
ELLIOTT
SANTIAGO
MARY LU
HILLSBOROUGH
BAHIA
RYDER
KELLY
TURNER
BAYVIEW
TICONDEROGA
BAYRIDGE
TOYON
DEL MONTE
ALDER
HADDON
CHAPMAN
LAKEWOOD
HILLCREST
SEAGATE
COLLEGE
LINDA
TULANE
SULLIVAN
STRATFORD
SHARON
FOSTER
DORCHESTER
EATON
MEFFERD
JEFFERSON
VOELKER
ROSEWOOD
GEORGE
MC KINLEY
STEPHEN
CROWN
VISTA
LULA BELLE
LORRAINE
OVERLOOK
PIONEER
STUDIO
CAMDEN
WOODBRIDGE
ANCHOR
EL SOBRANTE
GLENDALE
WOOSTER
KENTUCKY
PORT
HEATHER
LANSDALE
BAYSWATER
18TH
WINWAY
HILLTOP
PADDOCK
LAUREL CREEK
FLINT
MC AKER
SPURAWAY
EL PARQUE
KLAMATH
TREETOP
MAIDEN
SKY
SCOTT
JODY
MELROSE
CHESTNUT
MENA
EL PORTAL
HICKORY
HIGH VIEW
DALEHURST
CHRIS
EDGEWATER
ROGELL
BRADLEY
SANTA CLARA
BLOSSOM
29TH
2ND
POPLAR
RAILROAD
40TH
SUNSET
38TH
PALM
16TH
10TH
PARROTT
AMPHLETT
ALLEY
EDISON
7TH
ALLEY
ALLEY
IDAHO
CLAREMONT
IDAHO
41ST
ELDORADO
RAILROAD
BAYSHORE
PACIFIC
25TH
SAN MATEO
19TH
PARROTT
ALLEY
2ND
HOBART
31ST
31ST
CYPRESS
28TH
IVY
GRANT
GRANT
FREMONT
EL CAMINO REAL
ALLEY
27TH
RAILROAD
ALLEY
29TH
39TH
Legend
SSP Ph 4
City of San Mateo Streets
San Mateo Smooth Streets Program Phase 4 Project
0
3,000
6,000
9,000
1,500
Feet
Last Updated: 5/9/2023
SSP - Smooth Streets Program
Acronyms
208 of 763

--- page 209 ---
Street
From 
To
30th Avenue
Monterey Street
Fernwood Street
Cypress Avenue
Norfolk Street
Quebec Street
Dakota Avenue
Patricia Avenue
Rand St
West Grant Place 
Grant Street
Grant Street
East Grant Place 
Grant Street
Grant Street
Harvard Road
Seville Way
End
Hemlock Avenue
Norfolk Street
Shoreview Avenue
Hemlock Avenue
Patricia Avenue
Norfolk Street
Jody Court
Edna Way
End
Kingridge Drive
Fernwood Street
141' N of Dalehurst Ave
Lansdale Street
30th Avenue
31st Avenue
Mefferd Avenue
Kingston Street
Huron Avenue
Ontario Street
Cypress Avenue
2nd Avenue
Peck Avenue
St. Timothy's 
Ryder Street
Prague Street
Trollman Avenue
Monte Diablo Avenue
Prague Street
Monte Diablo Avenue
York Avenue
Rand Street
Newbridge Avenue
Dakota Avenue
Ryder Street
Dolan Avenue
End
Sharon Place
Norfolk Street
Ontario Street
Stephen Road
Hillsdale Boulevard
Alameda de las Pulgas
Vanessa Drive
Eleanor Drive
Wolfe Drive
209 of 763

--- page 210 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4662
File ID: 23-7526
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 5B – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with MNS Engineers, Inc. for design services in an amount not to exceed $585,000; establish a 
contingency reserve of $58,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the 
form presented and approve amendments within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The City owns and maintains pavement assets consisting of approximately 200 miles of streets, bike paths, and alleyways. 
The Pavement Management Program (PMP) is managed by Public Works and consists of the implementation of annual 
pavement maintenance and capital improvements that cannot be performed by the City’s field maintenance crews. On 
February 9, 2023, the City issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) for engineering design services for the Citywide Street 
Rehabilitation Package 5B (PMP-5B) at various locations within the City.  
The City received a total of five proposals and were reviewed by a panel of Public Works staff to evaluate the proposed 
project team, project approach, and estimated level of effort. MNS Engineers, Inc. (MNS) was identified as the highest 
ranked proposal based on experience with similar projects, comprehensive approach, and favorable references. MNS’s 
proposed scope, schedule, and budget align with the City’s needs. Staff recommends entering a contract with MNS to 
perform the design services for this project for an amount not to exceed $585,000 and establishing a contingency of 
$58,000 (10% of the contract budget) to cover any unforeseen changes during the design process. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 3/Street Rehabilitation Phase 5-B project 
(467009) to award this agreement and fund the contingency reserve. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
210 of 763

--- page 211 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 2 – Location Map/List
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Gindlesperger, Senior Engineer
sgindlesperger@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7315
211 of 763

--- page 212 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 1 of 8 
Rev 7/21 
AGREEMENT WITH MNS ENGINEERS, INC. 
FOR DESIGN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
FOR 
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE 5-B 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and MNS ENGINEERS, INC., a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 111 N. Market 
Street, Suite 440, San Jose, CA 95113: 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain professional design services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional design services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
212 of 763

--- page 213 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 2 of 8 
Rev 7/21 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of 
agreement and continue until all work is completed and accepted by the City’s project manager.   
 
CITY agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT'S 
timetable. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
of $585,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by 
reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
213 of 763

--- page 214 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 3 of 8 
Rev 7/21 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent CONSULTANT as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or willful misconduct to the maximum extent permitted 
by state law.  To the extent permitted by Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
214 of 763

--- page 215 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 4 of 8 
Rev 7/21 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
 
SECTION 16 – SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
sub-consultants shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
215 of 763

--- page 216 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 5 of 8 
Rev 7/21 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works  
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
MNS Engineers, Inc. 
Attn:  Martha Dadala 
111 N. Market Street, Suite 440 
San Jose, CA 95113 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
216 of 763

--- page 217 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 6 of 8 
Rev 7/21 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONSULTANT have executed this Agreement the day and year 
first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Director of Public Works 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Darren Riegler 
Its Authorized Agent 
President/CEO 
 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
 
 
217 of 763

--- page 218 ---
Page A-1 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
CONSULTANT’s proposed scope of services includes evaluating the condition of the 
pavement of the street segments, conduct surveys, perform geotechnical investigations, 
and recommend pavement rehabilitation solutions. CONSULTANT will prepare basis of 
design report, preliminary and final design plans, specifications and estimates for City to 
advertise the Citywide Street Rehabilitation 5B Project (Project). The following streets and 
limits are included in this scope of services.   
 
Street Name 
From 
To 
Length 
(ft) 
Width 
(ft) 
4th Avenue 
Grant 
Eldorado 
665 
40 
4th Avenue 
Eldorado 
Delaware 
332 
40 
4th Avenue 
B St 
Ellsworth 
300 
44 
10th Avenue 
Idaho 
Amphlett 
326 
18 
41st Avenue 
Hacienda 
Bayview 
1,400 
24 
Alley 9 
Palm Place 
350' E/O Palm Place 
350 
20 
Darcy Court 
Darcy 
End 
111 
18 
Eleanor Drive 
Edna 
Joanne 
450 
28 
Grand Boulevard 
Claremont 
Railroad 
546 
33 
Grant Street 
Concar 
16th 
2,041 
34 
Idaho Street 
9th 
10th 
566 
24 
Newbridge Avenue 
Norfolk 
Bayshore 
1,040 
29 
Norfolk Street 
Lodi 
Kehoe 
1,187 
41 
Norfolk Street 
Dale 
Newbridge 
925 
40 
Norfolk Street 
Newbridge 
Dakota 
834 
41 
Otay Avenue 
Pacific 
Curtiss 
1,097 
28 
Poplar Avenue 
Hurlingham 
El Camino Real 
850 
33 
Railroad Avenue 
(Northeast Side) 
5th 
9th 
1,160 
38 
Santa Inez Avenue 
Amphlett 
Idaho 
340 
28 
Santa Inez Avenue 
Idaho 
Humboldt 
360 
24 
Serra Court 
Idaho 
End 
160 
20 
Thomas Court 
Idaho 
End 
155 
20 
 
SCOPE OF WORK 
TASK 1 – PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION 
CONSULTANT will coordinate the project development process and the development of 
the project components. CONSULTANT will be responsible for detailed management of 
218 of 763

--- page 219 ---
Page A-2 
the project, including the subconsultants, and keep the City appraised of the status of the 
project. CONSULTANT will represent the City, with the City’s input and approval, in 
communications with other external agencies, as needed, to deliver the Project. 
CONSULTANT will prepare and submit monthly progress reports including summary of 
completed activities; proposed activities for next month; issues affecting project delivery, 
scope, schedule, or budgets summary of project decisions updated project schedule, 
budget status, percent of work complete and cost to complete remaining works and other 
important project information.  
CONSULTANT will prepare and submit a baseline schedule including identifying key 
permits and agency approvals with associated processes required to facilitate the design 
and construction of the Project. CONSULTANT will provide a monthly milestone update 
as part of virtual bi-weekly progress meetings described below. 
The CONSULTANT Project Manager will attend an in-person kick-off meeting, virtual bi-
weekly progress review meetings, design submittal presentations, and review meetings 
at each submittal milestone, and as described elsewhere in this scope of services. 
Task 1 Deliverables 
• Baseline schedule  
• Monthly project progress report and schedule submitted with invoice  
• Meeting agendas and minutes  
 
TASK 2 – SITE INVESTIGATIONS 
Task 2.1 – Topographic Survey 
CONSULTANT will perform field surveying and mapping services in support of the 
pavement rehabilitation improvements identified as 23 roadway sections totaling 
approximately 16,000 linear feet (LF). This scope of work includes an aerial survey, 
orthophoto creation, and ground surveys with supplemental information for design. MNS 
will establish new control on the NAD83, Epoch 2017.50 horizontal datum and NAVD88 
vertical datum based on local GPS ties. The limits of the aerial and ground surveys will 
extend to construction limits or R/W boundaries and include any adjacent applicable 
features. This also includes extending the survey 25 feet in all directions of major 
intersections. The ground surveys will include curb ramp footprints needing replacement 
for ADA compliance (Approx. 62 ramps). CONSULTANT will prepare a topographic 
base map in AutoCAD at a scale of 1” = 20’ with 1-foot-contour intervals. This scope of 
work does not include manhole inverts or underground utility location services. 
The existing City right of way will be based on available City and County GIS mapping. 
This scope of work does not include locating centerline monuments or retracing existing 
street centerlines.   
219 of 763

--- page 220 ---
Page A-3 
Assumptions. This scope of work does not include title report acquisitions or preparation 
of legal descriptions. 
Task 2.2 – Geotechnical Investigation 
CONSULTANT will perform geotechnical investigations for the proposed streets 
rehabilitation project. A drilling permit is not required from San Mateo County since the 
borings will be less than 10 feet deep. CONSULTANT will obtain encroachment permits 
from the City.  It is assumed that the permit fee will be waived for this City project. It is 
also assumed that the City will allow a typical moving traffic control for all locations. 
CONSULTANT’s field engineer will mark the exploration locations and contact 
Underground Service Alert (USA) for utility clearances. No private utility locator is 
assumed in the scope. 
CONSULTANT proposes to drill 25 borings. Our field engineer will collect one pavement 
core from the existing HMA and/or PCC portion of the pavement and one bulk sample 
up to 5 feet deep for R-value testing at each borehole location.  
It is assumed that a truck-mounted drill rig will be used for field explorations. One travel 
lane may have to be closed while drilling. It is expected that each location will take 45 to 
60 minutes to complete. CONSULTANT will engage a vendor to provide moving traffic 
control during the field exploration.  
CONSULTANT’s field engineer will classify and log the subsurface soil conditions 
encountered in the test borings at the time of drilling. Please note that the actual boring 
locations are subject to utility conflict and site access.  
The GPS coordinates for each test boring location will be recorded by using a 
cellphone. Our scope does not include a survey of the locations. The pavement will be 
restored by using the cold AC patch. The field exploration would be completed between 
regular business hours, i.e., no night work.  
Task 2.3 – Geotechnical Investigation Report 
CONSULTANT will perform laboratory tests on representative soil samples to develop 
pavement design parameters, i.e. R-values.  The scope includes up to 20 Atterberg 
Limits, 10 regular R-Value tests, and 5 lime-treated R-value tests on subgrade materials 
for pavement design.  
CONSULTANT will tabulate the pavement thickness measured from the core samples 
and their locations, and the core photos will be included. Pavement sections will be 
developed based on Caltrans empirical method with the traffic index provided by the 
City and the R-value from the test results. It is our understanding that chemical 
treatment is expected due to the potential soft subgrade. Pavement recommendations 
with chemical treatment, including full-depth reclamation, will be developed as needed.  
220 of 763

--- page 221 ---
Page A-4 
CONSULTANT will prepare a report to summarize the findings and pavement 
recommendations. A draft report will be submitted for the City’s review. A final report will 
address the review comments and design updates.  
Percolation tests and Non-Destructive Deflection Testing are not part of the scope of 
work of this investigation. 
Task 2.4 – Utility Coordination and Potholing 
CONSULTANT will identify potential existing utility conflicts and any suggested utility 
relocation scope highlighting where a third-party utility may be required to perform utility 
relocation in accordance with existing franchise agreements and identify potential 
schedule impacts. The City will lead coordination with the impacted third-party utility, but 
CONSULTANT will be responsible for preparing exhibits, work summaries, and 
participating in meetings with the affected third-party utilities. CONSULTANT assumes 10 
potholes will be required where the pavement structure needs to be replaced and known 
underground utilities are in conflict. CONSULTANT will engage a vendor to locate the 
utilities and positively locate them using vacuum excavation. CONSULTANT will secure 
a no-fee encroachment permit from the City prior to performing utility potholing. 
 
Task 2 Deliverables 
• Topographic surveys  
• Geotechnical investigation report  
• Utility conflict maps and matrix  
• Utility pothole report  
 
TASK 3 – PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING 
Task 3.1 -Preliminary Design 
CONSULTANT will evaluate all street segments to identify potential risks and mitigation 
approaches. The evaluation will be used to guide development of construction method 
selection and highlight potential unstable subgrade limits based on the geotechnical 
investigations and recommendations. CONSULTANT will develop design criteria to 
determine limits of pavement replacement, curb/ gutter modifications, recommended 
cross slopes, and other site improvements determined to be required to facilitate street 
rehabilitation in the most cost-effective manner feasible.  
CONSULTANT will identify potential site constraints to be considered when developing 
the proposed street reconstruction design including, but not limited to, any potential curb 
ramps that may be required to be replaced to meet current laws and regulations; areas 
of excessive ponding (e.g. greater than one-inch of ponding); impacts to private 
driveways; and other improvements necessary to facilitate successful reconstruction. 
CONSULTANT will prepare 30% design level drawings identifying the proposed 
improvements and limits of work. 
221 of 763

--- page 222 ---
Page A-5 
Task 3.2 -Basis of Design (BOD) Report 
CONSULTANT will prepare BOD Report and present it to the City including facilitating a 
workshop that will be attended by the Public Works Director and Deputy Director of Public 
Works for acceptance prior to proceeding with detailed design work. 
Task 3 Deliverables 
• 30% design submittal including plans, specifications outline, and cost estimate  
• BOD report  
• Technical review workshop agenda and minutes  
 
TASK 4 – PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS, AND ESTIMATES (PS&E) 
Based on the concurrence of preliminary design, CONSULTANT will prepare draft PS&E 
packages. CONSULTANT will communicate with various agencies and utility companies 
as necessary to obtain information regarding the existing utilities and to identify utility 
conflicts. After receiving draft PS&E review comments from the City, CONSULTANT will 
prepare for and facilitate a design review workshop with City staff to review and resolve 
the City’s comments.  
CONSULTANT will prepare and submit final construction contract documents 
incorporating all comments from previous reviews. The plans will be prepared using 
AutoCAD and plot at appropriate scales on 22-inch x 34-inch sheets. CONSULTANT will 
prepare specifications in the format of Caltrans standard specifications 2018 version. The 
City will provide City’s Standard Specification Template based on Caltrans 2018 for 
consultant’s use. All special provisions and technical specifications required for 
construction will conform to City and Caltrans specifications. CONSULTANT will assist 
the City in preparing the bid document including bid schedule and description of bid items.  
CONSULTANT will develop a schedule of bid items to address all required contract work 
and prepare clear specifications for measurement and payment. Provisions for alternate 
items may be considered as an approach to keep the Project within budget. 
CONSULTANT will identify any physical work required for project implementation outside 
of the construction contract and provide recommendations for the procurement method.  
Utility mapping and disposition will be shown on the layout plans. The disposition of 
existing signage that are impacted by the curb ramp reconstruction will be shown on the 
curb ramp detail plans. 
The Plans anticipated to be included with each submittal are presented in the following 
table: 
 
222 of 763

--- page 223 ---
Page A-6 
Plan Set 
Scale 
Preliminary 
Design 
Draft 
PS&E 
Final 
PS&E 
Bid Set 
Title 
NTS 
1 
1 
1 
1 
Project Control Sheet 
NTS 
 
1 
1 
1 
Typical Sections 
NTS 
2 
4 
4 
4 
Key Map 
NTS 
1 
1 
1 
1 
Layouts 
1"=20' 
36 
36 
36 
36 
Curb Ramps 
1”=10’ 
 
21 
21 
21 
Const. Details 
1"=10' 
 
4 
6 
6 
Striping Plans 
1"=20' 
 
20 
20 
20 
Total 
 
40 
88 
90 
90 
 
Task 4 Deliverables 
• Draft submittal in electronic format (MS Word, Excel, and Adobe PDF)  
• Final PS&E submittals in electronic format (MS Word, Excel, and Adobe PDF)  
• Technical review workshop agenda and minutes  
• Final quantity calculations and estimates  
 
TASK 5 – BID SUPPORT 
CONSULTANT will assist the City to respond to questions concerning the plans, 
specifications, and other bid documents prior to bid opening and prepare contract 
addenda, if needed. CONSULTANT will package the final PS&E into the construction 
contract bid documents and prepare electronic copies. CONSULTANT will be available 
to answer any bidders inquiries and prepare addenda as needed to clarify the design 
intent on the plans and specifications.  
Task 5 Deliverables 
• Contract addenda, if needed, for distribution by the City  
• Written responses to bidder questions for distribution by the City during bid phase  
 
Project Assumptions 
CONSULTANT’s proposed scope of services and budget are provided based on the 
following assumptions. 
• 
No change in overall roadway cross section  
• 
The existing drainage systems have adequate capacity  
• 
No new bicycle lanes/sidewalks are required  
• 
The properties and schools will be maintained  
• 
No intersection improvements other than ADA curb ramps will be included  
223 of 763

--- page 224 ---
Page A-7 
• 
The project corridor has approximately 117 curb ramps of which 55 have 
already been upgraded.  These 55 curb ramps will not be designed as part of 
this project. 
• 
The City will issue the encroachment permit to conduct surveys at no cost to 
the MNS team  
• 
No new R/W will be required 
• 
Specifications will handle the project traffic control and public access 
requirements   
 
 
SCHEDULE 
CONSULTANT will provide the scope of services described above on a mutually 
agreeable schedule. 
 
 
BUDGET 
CONSULTANT proposes to provide our services on a time and materials basis with a not-
to-exceed budget of $585,000. Attachment B to this Agreement provides the 2023 
Standard Schedule of Fees that will be used for the Project. 
 
224 of 763

--- page 225 ---
2 0 2 3  S T A N D A R D  S C H E D U L E  O F  F E E S
PROJECT/PROGRAM MANAGEMENT 
Principal-In-Charge ............................... $325 
Senior Project/Program Manager ...... 310 
Project/Program Manager .................... 260 
Assistant Project/Program Manager 245 
Senior Project Coordinator ................... 185 
Project Coordinator ................................. 155 
ENGINEERING 
Principal Engineer .................................. $290 
Lead Engineer ............................................ 255 
Supervising Engineer .............................. 245 
Senior Project Engineer ......................... 225 
Project Engineer........................................ 200 
Associate Engineer .................................. 180 
Assistant Engineer.................................... 165 
SURVEYING 
Principal Surveyor .................................. $265 
Lead Surveyor ............................................ 255 
Supervising Surveyor .............................. 220 
Senior Project Surveyor ......................... 200 
Project Surveyor........................................ 175 
Associate Project Surveyor ................... 165 
Assistant Project Surveyor .................... 150 
Party Chief (PW) ........................................ 180 
Chainperson (PW) .................................... 150 
One-Person Survey Crew (PW) ........... 215 
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT 
Principal Construction Manager ...... $320 
Senior Construction Manager ............. 275 
Senior Resident Engineer ...................... 265 
Resident Engineer .................................... 255 
Structure Representative ....................... 245 
Construction Manager ........................... 220 
Assistant Resident Engineer................. 205 
Sr. Construction Inspector (PW)  ........ 190 
Construction Inspector (PW)  .............. 180 
Office Administrator ................................ 130 
TECHNICAL SUPPORT 
CADD Manager ....................................... $200 
Supervising Technician .......................... 170 
Senior Technician ..................................... 160 
Engineering Technician .......................... 125 
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT 
Senior Management Analyst ............. $185 
Management Analyst.............................. 155 
IT Technician ............................................... 140 
Graphics/Visualization Specialist ....... 150 
Administrative Assistant ........................ 100 
GOVERNMENT SERVICES 
City Engineer ........................................... $250 
Deputy City Engineer .............................. 225 
Assistant City Engineer ........................... 215 
Plan Check Engineer................................ 190 
Permit Engineer ......................................... 185 
City Inspector ............................................. 185 
Senior City Inspector (PW)  .................. 195 
City Inspector (PW) .................................. 185 
Principal Stormwater Specialist .......... 180 
Senior Stormwater Specialist ............... 170 
Stormwater Specialist ............................. 160 
Stormwater Technician .......................... 140 
Building Official ......................................... 220 
Senior Building Inspector ...................... 235 
Building Inspector .................................... 165 
Planning Director ...................................... 225 
Senior City Planner .................................. 205 
Assistant Planner ...................................... 195 
Senior Grant Writer .................................. 180 
Grant Writer ................................................ 170 
Associate Grant Writer ........................... 150 
Assistant Grant Writer ............................ 130 
DIRECT EXPENSES 
Use of outside consultants as well as copies, blueprints, survey stakes, monuments, computer plots, telephone, travel (out of area) 
and all similar charges directly connected with the work will be charged at cost plus fifteen percent (15%). Mileage will be charged 
at the current federal mileage reimbursement rate. 
PREVAILING WAGE RATES 
Rates shown with Prevailing Wage “(PW)” annotation are used for field work on projects subject to federal or state prevailing 
wage law and are subject to increases per DIR. 
ANNUAL ESCALATION 
Standard fee rates provided for each classification are subject to 3.5% annual escalation or the most recent US Bureau of Labor 
Statistics Consumer Price Index, whichever is higher. 
OVERTIME 
Overtime for non-exempt employees will be charged at 1.5 x hourly rate; overtime for exempt employees and other classification 
will be charged at 1 x hourly rate. 
Exhibit B
225 of 763

--- page 226 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 7 of 8 
Rev 7/21 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall 
be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
226 of 763

--- page 227 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 8 of 8 
Rev 7/21 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
 
227 of 763

--- page 228 ---
B
3RD
DELAWARE
5TH
NORFOLK
31ST
US HWY 101 SB
US HWY 101 NB
HILLSDALE
PALM
STATE HWY 92 EB
STATE HWY 92 WB
4TH
28TH
9TH
GRANT
IDAHO
36TH
26TH
30TH
HUMBOLDT
41ST
20TH
37TH
42ND
19TH
2ND
KEHOE
40TH
39TH
MAPLE
24TH
22ND
EL CAMINO REAL
23RD
27TH
ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS
EDISON
TILTON
CLAREMONT
AVILA
CLARK
BELLEVUE
16TH
BAYSHORE
HACIENDA
PENINSULA
SAN MATEO
DE ANZA
FREMONT
DIX
SARATOGA
29TH
1ST
ELM
FLORES
LODI
MARTIN
SYLVAN
PARROTT
25TH
BRANSON
J HART CLINTON
BIRCH
YEW
PICO
SEVILLE
POLHEMUS
OAK
NORTON
ARAGON
DALE
ROBERTA
ELLSWORTH
VIRGINIA
NEVADA
HARVARD
WARREN
EDINBURGH
CONCAR
CURTISS
QUEBEC
GRAND
ROYAL
VILLA
MASON
BAZE
OTAY
SHOREVIEW
FIESTA
CSM
10TH
CRYSTAL SPRINGS
HIGHLAND
POPLAR
INDIAN
PATRICIA
FASHION ISLAND
12TH
BERMUDA
RAND
LA SELVA
11TH
FRANKLIN
COBB
15TH
14TH
13TH
PASADENA
ELDORADO
RAILROAD
SONORA
TILIA
PARKWOOD
MONTEREY
EDGEWOOD
LAUREL
YORK
POINSETTIA
17TH
LA CASA
CASANOVA
ORINDA
MARINERS ISLAND
BARROILHET
NOTRE DAME
BARNESON
CASTILIAN
CYPRESS
YALE
LOUISE
FAIRFAX
NEWBRIDGE
GLENDORA
ALLEY
AIRPORT
38TH
43RD
THIRD
KINGS
HEMLOCK
CRESCENT
HOBART
HAMLET
OCCIDENTAL
FERNWOOD
NADINA
GUM
KINGRIDGE
COSTA RICA
BOREL
SUNNYBRAE
CAMPUS
PRAGUE
PACIFIC
ADA
DAY
LAGO
HOLLAND
AMPHLETT
OTTAWA
IVY
WAYNE
BORDEN
KINGSTON
ENSENADA
LOS PRADOS
BROMFIELD
WOLFE
SUNSET
8TH
7TH
6TH
KYNE
ECHO
FALLON
NORTH
MAXINE
SHASTA
OCEAN VIEW
NASH
DAVID
SEQUOIA
OREGON
LAURELWOOD
LESLIE
MC LELLAN
PARK
PORTOLA
YATES
NOE
WILSHIRE
STATE
LOS ALTOS
CARLISLE
MURPHY
IOWA
COLEGROVE
ARMADA
EISENHOWER
FAIRMONT
BAKER
BOVET
MONTE DIABLO
VENTURA
TROLLMAN
REGAN
O NEILL
SHOAL
HURLINGHAM
CUESTA
RAMONA
MARINA
REX
QUEENS
DONNER
FOLKSTONE
WOODSIDE
OSO
CHURCH
SHAFTER
BALDWIN
VANBUREN
ANNAPOLIS
LIVE OAK
MISSION
EDNA
HOWE
COLUMBIA
CLEARVIEW
COUNTRYSIDE
FATHOM
OVERLAND
BRIAR
SOUTH
ANNA
WASHINGTON
JOANNE
GREENFIELD
BEACON
ADAMS
VERDUN
CHERRYWOOD
HURON
ASHWOOD
ROSSI
LOLA
KALMIA
MIDWAY
RHUS
POLK
HOSMER
PLAYA
BUCKNELL
DEWEY
GUILDFORD
LAKE
PECK
BROOKS
ARBOR
RANELAGH
CONNIE
LAURIE MEADOWS
BAYWOOD
DETROIT
TEXAS
ROLLING HILLS
CELESTE
LOCUST
RANDALL
FOOTHILL
EL CERRITO
ROSILIE
SANTA INEZ
CLIPPER
DE SABLA
GARFIELD
GARVEY
LLANO
ISABELLE
CRESTWOOD
BRIDGEPOINTE
PROSPECT ROW
ARROYO
JASMINE
JUNIPER
PIERCE
DUBLIN
MONROE
CHESS
PARKSIDE
CAVANAUGH
OAKWOOD
ARK
LAFAYETTE
MAGNOLIA
HAYWARD
VERNON
DOLAN
CAXTON
KENWOOD
TAYLOR
WISNOM
COYOTE POINT
ROCHESTER
WOODLAND
FORDHAM
QUINCE
HARROW
KING
TIMBERLANE
ELLIOTT
SANTIAGO
MARY LU
HILLSBOROUGH
BAHIA
RYDER
KELLY
TURNER
BAYVIEW
TICONDEROGA
BAYRIDGE
TOYON
DEL MONTE
ALDER
HADDON
CHAPMAN
LAKEWOOD
HILLCREST
SEAGATE
COLLEGE
LINDA
TULANE
SULLIVAN
STRATFORD
SHARON
FOSTER
DORCHESTER
EATON
MEFFERD
JEFFERSON
VOELKER
ROSEWOOD
GEORGE
MC KINLEY
STEPHEN
CROWN
VISTA
LULA BELLE
LORRAINE
OVERLOOK
PIONEER
STUDIO
CAMDEN
WOODBRIDGE
ANCHOR
EL SOBRANTE
GLENDALE
WOOSTER
KENTUCKY
PORT
HEATHER
LANSDALE
BAYSWATER
18TH
WINWAY
HILLTOP
PADDOCK
LAUREL CREEK
FLINT
MC AKER
SPURAWAY
EL PARQUE
KLAMATH
TREETOP
MAIDEN
SKY
SCOTT
JODY
MELROSE
CHESTNUT
MENA
EL PORTAL
HICKORY
HIGH VIEW
DALEHURST
CHRIS
EDGEWATER
ROGELL
BRADLEY
SANTA CLARA
BLOSSOM
29TH
2ND
POPLAR
RAILROAD
40TH
SUNSET
38TH
PALM
16TH
10TH
PARROTT
AMPHLETT
ALLEY
EDISON
7TH
ALLEY
ALLEY
IDAHO
CLAREMONT
IDAHO
41ST
ELDORADO
RAILROAD
BAYSHORE
PACIFIC
25TH
SAN MATEO
19TH
PARROTT
ALLEY
2ND
HOBART
31ST
31ST
CYPRESS
28TH
IVY
GRANT
GRANT
FREMONT
EL CAMINO REAL
ALLEY
27TH
RAILROAD
ALLEY
29TH
39TH
Legend
PMP 5B
City of San Mateo Streets
San Mateo Pavement Management Program 5B Project
0
3,000
6,000
9,000
1,500
Feet
Last Updated: 5/9/2023
PMP - Pavement Management Program
Acronyms
228 of 763

--- page 229 ---
Street Name
From
To
4th Avenue
Grant
Eldorado
4th Avenue
Eldorado
Delaware
4th Avenue
B
Ellsworth
10th Avenue
Railroad
Delaware
10th Avenue
Idaho
Amphlett
41st Avenue
Hacienda
Bayview
Alley 9
Palm Place
350' E/O Palm Place
Darcy Court
Darcy
End
Eleanor Drive
Edna
Joanne
Grand Boulevard
Claremont
Railroad
Grant Street
Concar
16th
Idaho Street
9th
10th
Newbridge Avenue
Norfolk
Bayshore
Norfolk Street
Lodi
Kehoe
Norfolk Street
Dale
Newbridge
Norfolk Street
Newbridge
Dakota
Otay Avenue
Pacific
Curtiss
Poplar Avenue
Hurlingham
El Camino Real
Railroad Avenue (Northeast Side)
5th
9th
Santa Inez Avenue
Amphlett
Idaho
Santa Inez Avenue
Idaho
Humboldt
Serra Court
Idaho
End
Thomas Court
Idaho
End
LIST OF STREET SEGMENTS - PMP 5B
229 of 763

--- page 230 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  18
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4663
File ID: 23-7225
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 5, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement Project Pacific Gas & Electric – Grant of Easement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to grant an Easement Deed to Pacific Gas & Electric and authorize the City Manager to execute the 
Easement Deed.
BACKGROUND:
On May 21, 2018, Council approved a professional services agreement with Biggs Cardosa Associates, Inc. (BCA) to perform 
the engineering design and environmental permitting for the Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement Project (Project). The 
design is based on the installation of torque-down piles to support the bridge, a method that will minimize noise and 
vibration. 
To facilitate the installation of the piles, the overhead Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) lines on the north side of the bridge will 
require relocation and will be placed underground. This will allow clear space for the pile installation equipment prior to 
the bridge construction work. While there is an existing easement along the north side of the channel for overhead 
utilities, the space is not large enough to accommodate the undergrounding of the power lines. An additional easement is 
needed to accommodate the new alignment of the power lines and access vault. The new vault will be placed within the 
parking lot of the City-owned Fiesta Meadows Park for accessibility and protection from creek bank erosion. Parking within 
the lot will not be affected since the vault will be underground. 
Staff requests Council approve granting the utility easement to PG&E to underground their electrical lines and allow for 
the replacement of the bridge. Upon approval of the easement, the City will coordinate with PG&E on the undergrounding 
effort. PG&E’s work is expected to take three months to complete. Once the undergrounding is completed, the City will 
begin the construction of the bridge replacement, which is anticipated to begin in spring of 2024. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available for the recordation of the easement from the Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement Project 
(462250).  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The proposed activity is exempt from CEQA, because it involves granting an easement for the installation of a new small 
structure, namely an underground PG&E vault.  (CEQA Guidelines Section 15303.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
230 of 763

--- page 231 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Proposed Easement Deed
STAFF CONTACT
Leo Chow, Associate Engineer
Lchow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7344
Stephanie Gindlesperger, Senior Engineer
sgindlesperger@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7315
231 of 763

--- page 232 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2023)
GRANTING EASEMENT TO PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC (PG&E)
(1141 BERMUDA DRIVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94403; APN 035-340-140)
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”) is the record owner of real property located at 1141
Bermuda Drive in the city of San Mateo, California, APN 035-340-140; and
WHEREAS, this real property is commonly known as “Fiesta Meadows Park”; and
WHEREAS, the City Council approved the award of a professional services agreement with Biggs
Cardosa Associates for design of the Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement Project; and
WHEREAS, the project team is pursing the environmental clearance form Caltrans and
permits from regulatory agencies; and
WHEREAS, a utility conflict was identified that would impede construction and the
existing overhead PG&E electrical lines prohibit pile installation equipment to be raised and install
bridge piles; and
WHEREAS, prior to bridge construction, PG&E will underground the electrical lines to
allow for the pile installation equipment to operate; and
WHEREAS, the City and PG&E agree that additional easement area is necessary to
facilitate the undergrounding of the electrical lines, which involves removal of overhead electrical
lines, undergrounding of electrical lines, and installation of an underground vault in the parking
lot of Fiesta Meadows Park north of the channel area; and
WHEREAS, staff requests that the City Council approve granting a utility easement to PG&E to
underground their electrical lines.
NOW, THEREFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA,
HEREBY RESOLVES that:
1.
CEQA. This project is exempt from CEQA, because it involves granting an easement for
the installation of a new small structure, namely an underground PG&E vault (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15303).
2.
The “Easement Deed” attached hereto as Exhibit A, granting an easement to PG&E
within Fiesta Meadows Park, 1141 Bermuda Drive, in San Mateo, CA, is approved. The
City Manager is authorized to execute the Easement Deed.
232 of 763

--- page 233 ---
EXHIBIT A
Utility Distribution Easement (02/2020)
RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND RETURN TO:
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
245 Market Street, N10A, Room 1015
P.O. Box 770000
San Francisco, California 94177
Location: City/Uninc
Recording Fee $_____________________________
Document Transfer Tax $ 
None
San Mateo
[X ] This is a conveyance where the consideration and
Value is less than $100.00 (R&T 11911).
[ ] Computed on Full Value of Property Conveyed, or
[ ] Computed on Full Value Less Liens
& Encumbrances Remaining at Time of Sale
[ ] Exempt from the fee per GC 27388.1 (a) (2); This
document is subject to Documentary Transfer Tax
(SPACE ABOVE FOR RECORDER'S USE ONLY)
Signature of declarant or agent determining tax
LD# 2304-04-10051
EASEMENT DEED
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation,
hereinafter called Grantor, hereby grants to PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY, a
California corporation, hereinafter called Grantee, the right from time to time to excavate for, construct,
reconstruct, replace (of initial or any other size), remove, maintain, inspect, and use facilities and
associated equipment for public utility purposes, including, but not limited to electric, gas, and
communication facilities, together with a right of way therefor, on, over, and under the easement area
as hereinafter set forth, and also ingress thereto and egress therefrom, over and across the lands of
Grantor situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, described as
follows:
(APN 035-340-140)
The parcel of land described in the Final Judgement of Condemnation, wherein City of San Mateo is
plaintiff, dated December 27, 1974 and recorded in Book 6760 of Official Records at Page 561, San
Mateo County Records.
The easement area is described as follows:
The strip of land described in Exhibit “A” and shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto and made a part
hereof.
Grantor further grants to Grantee the right, from time to time, to trim or to cut down, without Grantee
paying compensation, any and all trees and brush now or hereafter within said easement area, and shall
have the further right, from time to time, to trim and cut down trees and brush along each side of said
easement area which now or hereafter in the opinion of Grantee may interfere with or be a hazard to the
facilities installed hereunder, or as Grantee deems necessary to comply with applicable state or federal
regulations.
233 of 763

--- page 234 ---
Utility Distribution Easement (02/2020)
Grantor also grants to Grantee the right to use such portion of said lands contiguous to said easement
area as may be reasonably necessary in connection with the excavation, construction, reconstruction,
replacement, removal, maintenance and inspection of said facilities.
Grantor hereby covenants and agrees not to place or construct, nor allow a third party to place or
construct, any building or other structure, or store flammable substances, or drill or operate any well, or
construct any reservoir or other obstruction within said easement area, or diminish or substantially add
to the ground level within said easement area, or construct any fences that will interfere with the
maintenance and operation of said facilities.
Grantor further grants to Grantee the right to apportion to another public utility (as defined in Section
216 of the California Public Utilities Code) the right to excavate for, construct, reconstruct, replace,
remove, maintain, inspect, and use the communications facilities within said easement area including
ingress thereto and egress therefrom.
Grantor acknowledges that they have read the “Grant of Easement Disclosure Statement”, Exhibit “C”,
attached hereto and made a part hereof.
This document may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original,
but all of which, together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
The provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of and bind the successors and assigns of the respective
parties hereto, and all covenants shall apply to and run with the land.
Dated: __________________, _______.
CITY OF SAN MATEO,
a municipal corporation
By__________________________________
By__________________________________
I hereby certify that a resolution was adopted on
the _____ day of ______________, 20_____, by
the_____________________________________
authorizing the foregoing grant of easement.
By_____________________________________
234 of 763

--- page 235 ---
Utility Distribution Easement (02/2020)
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the individual who
signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of
that document.
State of California
County of
)
On __________________________, before me,
personally appeared
Notary Public,
Insert name
,
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within
instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that
by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed
the instrument.
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and
correct.
WITNESS my hand and official seal.
(Seal)
Signature of Notary Public
CAPACITY CLAIMED BY SIGNER
[ ] Individual(s) signing for oneself/themselves
[ ] Corporate Officer(s) of the above named corporation(s)
[ ] Trustee(s) of the above named Trust(s)
[ ] Partner(s) of the above named Partnership(s)
[ ] Attorney(s)-in-Fact of the above named Principal(s)
[ ] Other
235 of 763

--- page 236 ---
June 7, 2022
Project No. 20100091-10
EXHIBIT “A”
LEGAL DESCRIPTION
PG&E EASEMENT (12.00 FEET WIDE)
All that certain real property situate in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of
California, being a portion of the lands described in that certain Final Judgment of
Condemnation recorded December 31, 1974 in Book 6760, at page 561, Official Records of said
county, said portion being more particularly described as follows:
COMMENCING at the most southerly corner of said property, said corner also being on the easterly
right-of-way line of Bermuda Drive as shown on that certain map entitled “Fiesta Gardens Unit No. 1”,
filed for record on June 15, 1954 in Book 39 of Maps at pages 9 and 10, records of said county;
Thence along said easterly right-of-way the following two (2) courses:
1. From a tangent bearing North 19°00’00” West, northwesterly along a curve to the left, having a
radius of 560.00 feet, through a central angle of 01°01’23”, an arc length of 10.00 feet, to the
northerly line of that certain PG&E Easement described in that certain deed recorded September
24, 1956, in Book 3098, at page 722, Official Records of said county, and the POINT OF
BEGINNING of this description;
2. Continuing along said curve, having a radius of 560.00 feet, through a central angle of 01°13’42”
an arc length of 12.01 feet;
Thence leaving said easterly right-of-way the following two (2) courses:
1. North 71°00'00" East, 90.34 feet;
2. South 19°00'00" East, 12.00 feet to said northerly line of said PG&E Easement;
Thence along said northerly line, South 71°00'00" West, 90.00 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING.
Containing an area of 1,082 square feet more or less.
BASIS OF BEARINGS:
The bearing of South 19°00’00” East, between two found monuments on Bermuda Drive, as shown on
that certain map entitled “Fiesta Gardens Unit No. 2”, filed for record on May 18, 1955 in Book 42 of Maps
at pages 19-20, records of San Mateo County, was taken as the basis of bearings for this survey.
BKF ENGINEERS
255 Shoreline Drive, Suite 200, Redwood City, CA 94065 | 650.482.6300
Page 1 of 3
236 of 763

--- page 237 ---
A plat showing the above described parcel is attached hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit “B”.
This legal description was prepared by me or under my direction in conformance with the requirements
of the Professional Land Surveyors’ Act.
06/07/2022
Date
David C. Jungmann, PLS 9267
END OF DESCRIPTION
Page 2 of 3
237 of 763

--- page 238 ---
BASIS OF BEARINGS:
IRON PIPE WITH
CAP STAMPED "LS
5929" IN WELL PER
42 MAPS 19-20
THE BEARING OF SOUTH 19°00'00” EAST, BETWEEN TWO FOUND
MONUMENTS ON BERMUDA DRIVE, AS SHOWN ON THAT
CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED "FIESTA GARDENS UNIT NO. 2", FILED
FOR RECORD ON MAY 18, 1955 IN BOOK 42 OF MAPS AT PAGES
19-20, RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, WAS TAKEN AS THE
BASIS OF BEARINGS FOR THIS SURVEY.
255 SHORELINE DR.,
SUITE 200
SUBJECT
JOB NO.
REDWOOD CITY, CA 94065
(650) 482-6300
BY
APPR.
DATE
www.bkf.com
OF
238 of 763

--- page 239 ---
Utility Distribution Easement (02/2020)
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
EXHIBIT “C”
GRANT OF EASEMENT DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
This Disclosure Statement will assist you in evaluating the request for granting an easement to Pacific Gas and Electric
Company (PG&E) to accommodate a utility service extension to PG&E’s applicant. Please read this disclosure
carefully before signing the Grant of Easement.
•
•
You are under no obligation or threat of condemnation by PG&E to grant this easement.
The granting of this easement is an accommodation to PG&E’s applicant requesting the extension of
PG&E utility facilities to the applicant’s property or project. Because this easement is an accommodation for
a service extension to a single customer or group of customers, PG&E is not authorized to purchase any such
easement.
•
By granting this easement to PG&E, the easement area may be used to serve additional customers in the
area and may be used to install additional utility facilities. Installation of any proposed facilities outside of
this easement area will require an additional easement.
•
Removal and/or pruning of trees or other vegetation on your property may be necessary for the installation
of PG&E facilities. You have the option of having PG&E’s contractors perform this work on your property,
if available, or granting permission to PG&E’s applicant or the applicant’s contractor to perform this work.
Additionally, in order to comply with California fire laws and safety orders, PG&E or its contractors will
periodically perform vegetation maintenance activities on your property as provided for in this grant of
easement in order to maintain proper clearances from energized electric lines or other facilities.
• 
The description of the easement location where PG&E utility facilities are to be installed across your
property must be satisfactory to you.
•
The California Public Utilities Commission has authorized PG&E’s applicant to perform the installation
of certain utility facilities for utility service. In addition to granting this easement to PG&E, your consent may
be requested by the applicant, or applicant’s contractor, to work on your property. Upon completion of the
applicant’s installation, the utility facilities will be inspected by PG&E. When the facility installation is
determined to be acceptable the facilities will be conveyed to PG&E by its applicant.
By signing the Grant of Easement, you are acknowledging that you have read this disclosure and understand that you
are voluntarily granting the easement to PG&E. Please return the signed and notarized Grant of Easement with this
Disclosure Statement attached to PG&E. The duplicate copy of the Grant of Easement and this Disclosure Statement
is for your records.
239 of 763

--- page 240 ---
Utility Distribution Easement (02/2020)
Attach to LD 2304-04-10051
Area 1, Peninsula Division
Land Service Office: San Jose
Line of Business: Electric Distribution (43)
Business Doc Type: Easement
MTRSQ: (23.04.04.27.32)
FERC License Number(s): N/A
PG&E Drawing Number(s): N/A
PLAT NO.:B-07-17
LD of any affected documents:N/A
LD of any Cross-referenced documents: 2304-04-0690
TYPE OF INTEREST: Electric Underground Easement (4), Communication Easement (6), Utility Easement
(86) SBE Parcel Number: N/A
(For Quitclaims, % being quitclaimed): N/A
Order # or PM #: 31526923-0070
JCN: N/A
County: San Mateo
Utility Notice Numbers (if applicable): N/A
851 Approval Application No.
Prepared By: kcv2
N/A 
Decision
N/A
Checked By: dan9
Approved By: N/A
Revised by: N/A
240 of 763

--- page 241 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 19
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4662
File ID: 23-7516
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
State of California Department of Transportation Delegated Maintenance Agreement – Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving Amendment No. 4 to the Delegated Maintenance Agreement with the State of California 
Department of Transportation for maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo to reduce the scope of the 
City’s maintenance responsibilities within Caltrans’s right-of-way along State Route 92 and authorize the City Manager to 
execute the amendment in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
On June 15, 1998, the City entered into a Delegated Maintenance Agreement with the State of California Department of 
Transportation (Caltrans) whereby the City would provide street sweeping services for certain areas of State Route 82, 
electrical maintenance services for certain areas of State Route 82 and State Route 92, and maintenance of certain public 
facilities on the northbound side of State Route 101 at Third Avenue. Since then, three amendments to the Delegated 
Maintenance Agreement were executed:
•
In November 2014, Amendment 1 increased the allowable charges to Caltrans for the maintenance of street 
sweeping and electrical services.
•
In January 2016, Amendment 2 added shared maintenance responsibilities for pedestrian hybrid beacons and/or 
safety lights located at West 39th Ave and 22nd Avenue on State Route 82/El Camino Real.
•
In January 2018, Amendment 3 added the following for the City to maintain: (1) slopes, drainage, vegetation, and 
landscaping within Caltrans’ right-of-way along State Route 92 and (2) certain improvements constructed under 
the 25th Avenue Grade Separation project.
In August 2018, roadway improvements to reconfigure the State Route 82/State Route 92 Interchange (82/92 Interchange 
Project) were completed as part of a joint project between the City of San Mateo, San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority, and Caltrans. The original 82/92 Interchange Project included landscaping work; however, prior to completion, 
the landscaping portion of the work was postponed due to the drought in California. Since then, the drought restrictions 
have been lifted.     
In December 2020, the City entered into a cooperative agreement with Caltrans for the 82/92 Interchange Landscape 
Project (Landscape Project) in order to implement landscaping improvements within Caltrans right-of-way. The Landscape 
Project’s objective is to create an attractive interchange that meets Caltrans requirements and minimizes the resources 
needed to maintain it. The Landscape Project includes clearing and grubbing, light grading and contouring, ground cover 
and tree planting, and irrigation improvements. It also includes landscaping along the sound wall in the northeast portion 
of the cloverleaf that faces the Hayward Park neighborhood. Staff gave Council an informational update on the 
landscaping design concept options in January 2021. The City is currently under contract with BKF Engineers to design and 
develop construction documents for the Landscape Project. 
241 of 763

--- page 242 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
During the design phase for the Landscape Project, staff negotiated with Caltrans staff, who agreed to amend the current 
Delegated Maintenance Agreement to reflect a reduction of the City’s maintenance responsibilities within Caltrans’s right-
of-way along State Route 92. This amendment will return State Route 92 maintenance responsibilities to Caltrans for 
slopes, drainage, vegetation, and landscaping from San Mateo west city limits near Ralston Polhemus Road overcrossings 
to San Mateo city limits 2,320 feet west of Foster City Boulevard overcrossing (a length of 5.17 miles). Returning these 
responsibilities to Caltrans is consistent with current Delegated Maintenance Agreements between Caltrans and nearby 
agencies.  Approval of this amendment will assist moving the Landscape Project forward to obtain a Caltrans 
encroachment permit to allow for construction to begin.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this amendment. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action of approving Amendment No. 4 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Amendment No. 4
Att 3 - Original Agreement
Att 4 – Amendment No. 1
Att 5 – Amendment No. 2
Att 6 – Amendment No. 3
STAFF CONTACT
Tina Pham, Senior Engineer
tpham@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7305
242 of 763

--- page 243 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
APPROVING AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO THE AGREEMENT WITH STATE OF CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF 
TRANSPORTATION (CALTRANS) FOR MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS WITHIN THE CITY 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (City) and State of California Department of Transportation 
(CALTRANS), collectively referred to as PARTIES, entered into Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in 
the City of San Mateo (Maintenance Agreement) on June 15, 1998, whereby the City would provide street 
sweeping services and electrical maintenance services for certain areas of State Route 82/El Camino; and
WHEREAS, amendments to the Maintenance Agreement were approved in November 2014 
(Amendment 1), January 2016 (Amendment 2), and January 2018 (Amendment 3) that increased scope of work 
for both the City and Caltrans; and
WHEREAS, PARTIES now seek to amend Maintenance Agreement with Amendment No. 4 to return State 
Route 92 maintenance responsibility to Caltrans for slopes, drainage, vegetation, and landscaping from San 
Mateo west city limits near Ralston Polhemus Road Overcrossings to San Mateo city limits 2,320 feet west of 
Foster City Boulevard Overcrossing.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
Approval of Amendment No. 4 to the Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways is not a project 
subject to CEQA because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct 
or indirect physical changes to the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
2.
The City Council approves Amendment No. 4 to the Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways 
in the City of San Mateo between the City and the State of California.  
3.
The City Council authorizes the City Manager to execute the amendment to the Agreement for 
Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo between the City and the State of 
California.
243 of 763

--- page 244 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 4 
AGREEMENT FOR MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS 
IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
This Amendment No. 4 to the Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo is 
made and entered into by and between the State of California, acting by and through the Department of 
Transportation, hereinafter referred to as “STATE”, and the City of San Mateo, hereinafter referred to as 
“CITY”.  
WITNESSETH: 
A. WHEREAS, an Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo, 
hereinafter referred to as “AGREEMENT”, as provided for in Section 130 of the Streets and 
Highways Code, was executed on June 15, 1998; and
B. WHEREAS, the AGREEMENT by its terms provides that it may be modified or amended at 
any time upon mutual consent of the parties; and
C. WHEREAS, the AGREEMENT was amended by the parties on December 15, 2014 
(Amendment 1), January 21, 2016 (Amendment 2), and January 18, 2018 (Amendment 3); and
D. WHEREAS, the parties hereto now desire that AGREEMENT be further amended.  
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree to amend AGREEMENT as follows: 
1.
Page 1 of 4 of EXHIBIT A is hereby replaced with Page 1A of 4 of Exhibit A4, attached and 
incorporated in by reference. Exhibit A Section H, is hereby replaced with the amended 
SECTION H in its entirety.  
2.
This Amendment No. 4 to AGREEMENT shall supersede all previously approved 
Amendments.  
3.
This Amendment No. 4 to AGREEMENT shall become effective upon execution.  In all other 
respects, AGREEMENT shall remain in full force and effect until amended or terminated.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
__________________________________
City Manager
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
Anthony Tavares
Director of Transportation
By
_______________________________________
                                                               Date
Leah Budu                                     
Deputy District Director, Maintenance        
244 of 763

--- page 245 ---
EXHIBIT A
H.  DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE:
      The specific maintenance function indicated below (and on “Exhibit A”) is herby delegated to the  
      CITY.  This delegation of maintenance function set forth herein does not include areas and functions 
      of which the control and maintenance rest with the local authority under the terms of Freeway 
      Agreements and/or Freeway Maintenance Agreements.  
Route
No.
Length 
Miles
Description of Routing
Program 
Delegation
Maximum 
Annual 
Authorized 
Expenditure
82
4.40
El Camino Real from south city limits at 43rd Avenue to north city 
limits at Peninsula Avenue; a length of 4.40 miles, of which half 
width from Barriolhet to Peninsula, a length of 0.06 mile, lies within 
the CITY.  
(Footnotes 1, 2, 3, 5)
HM2C
HM2D
HM2E
HM4K
$0.00
$40,000.00
$0.00
$12,000.00
Total 
Authorized 
Route 82
$52,000.00
92
5.17
J. Arthur Young Freeway from west city limits near Ralston 
Polhemus Road Overcrossing to city limits 2,320 feet west of Foster 
City Boulevard Overcrossing, a length of 5.17 miles.  
HM4K
$4,650.00
Total 
Authorized 
Route 92
$4,650.00
101
5.13
Bayshore Freeway from city limits 2,175 feet north of Ralston 
Avenue Overcrossing to north city limits 2,100 feet north of 
Peninsula Avenue Overcrossing, a length of 5.13 miles. 
(Footnote 4)
HM2G
$0.00
Total 
Authorized 
Route 101
$0.00
TOTAL AUTHORIZED AMOUNT 
$56,650.00
Footnotes:
1.
Length of street to be cleaned – 16.9 curb-miles
2.
CITY will maintain, at CITY expense, all portions of the Hillsdale Boulevard structure across El Camino Real 
above the bridge deck (Exhibit B).
3.
CITY will maintain median landscaping at CITY expense.  
4.
CITY will maintain, at CITY expense, the park-and-ride lot located on the northbound side of Route 101 at 
Third Avenue.  
5.
CITY will maintain, at CITY expense, portion of El Camino Real related to the 25th Avenue Grade Separation 
Project as described and highlighted in Exhibit C.
Page 1A of 4
245 of 763

--- page 246 ---
AGREEMENT FOR MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS
IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this
15th
day of
June
19~, by and between the State of California, acting by and throu-g-Ch-:cthc-e----
Department of Transportation, hereinafter referred to as uSTATE," and the City of
San Mateo, hereinafter referred to as "CITY."
WITNESSETH:
A.
RECITALS:
The Parties desire to provide for the CITY to perform particular maintenance
functions on the State highway(s) within the CITY as provided in Section
130 of the Streets and Highways Code.
B.
AGREEMENT:
This Agreement shall supersede any previous AGREEMENT FOR
MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO and/or
Amendments thereto with the CITY.
In consideration of the mutual covenants and promises herein contained, it is
agreed:
The CITY will perform such maintenance work as is specifically
delegated to it, on the State highway routes or portions thereof all as
hereinafter described under Section H hereof or as said Section may be
subsequently modified with the consent of the parties hereto acting by
and through their authorized representative.
C.
MAINTENANCE DEFINED:
Maintenance is defined in Section 27 of the Streets and Highways Code as
follows:
Section 27.
(a)
(b)
(c)
The preservation and keeping of rights of way, and each
type of roadway, structure, safety convenience or device,
planting, illumination equipment and other facility, in the
safe and usable condition to which it has been improved
or constructed, but does not include reconstruction, or
other improvement.
Operation of special safety conveniences and devices,
and illuminating equipment.
The special or emergency maintenance or repair
necessitated by accidents or by storms or other weather
conditions, slides, settlements or other unusual or
unexpected damage to a roadway, structure or facility.
DUPliCATE ORIGINAL
246 of 763

--- page 247 ---
D.
DEGREE OF MAINTENANCE:
The degree or extent of maintenance work to be performed and the
standards therefor shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 27
of the Streets and Highways Code, as set forth in the current edition of the
State Maintenance manual (a copy of which has been provided to the CITY),
or as may be prescribed from time to time by the District Director.
"District
Director," as used herein, means the District Director of the Department of
Transportation assigned to the territory in which the CITY is located, or his
authorized representative.
The STATE reserves the option to inspect at random all areas of State
Highways maintained by the CITY to assure conformance to maintenance
levels.
Failure of the CITY to comply with the maintenance levels would be
reason to terminate this agreement as specified under Section J "Term of
Agreement."
However, this random inspection does not preempt the CITY's
maintenance responsibilities as specified in this Agreement.
An encroachment permit will be required for third parties when maintenance
work is redelegated.
Such redelegated work shall be performed at the same
levels of service as specified herein and will be subject to the same random
inspection as provided for work performed directly by CITY forces.
The level of service of maintenance in each of the programs delegated to the
CITY has been considered in setting authorized total and route dollar
amounts.
The CITY may perform additional work if desired, but the STATE
will not reimburse the CITY for any work in excess of authorized dollars.
The
District Director may authorize adjustments needed because of inflation or
changes in program emphasis.
E.
lEGAL RELATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Nothing in the provisions of this Agreement is intended to create duties or
obligations to or rights in third parties not parties to this contract or affect
the legal liability of either party to the contract by imposing any standard of
care respecting the maintenance of State highways different from the
standard of care imposed by law.
It is understood and agreed that neither the STATE nor any officer or
employee thereof is responsible for any damage or liability occurring by
reason of anything done or omitted to be done by the CITY under or in
connection with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the CITY
under this Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that pursuant to
Government Code Section 895.4 CITY shall defend, indemnify and save
harmless the State of California, all officers and employees from all claims,
suits or actions of every name, kind and description brought for or on
account of injuries to or death of any person or damage to property resulting
from anything done or omitted to be done by the CITY under or in connection
with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the CITY under this
Agreement.
2
247 of 763

--- page 248 ---
It is understood and agreed that neither the CITY nor any officer or employee
thereof is responsible for any damage or liability occurring by reason of
anything done or omitted to be done by the ST-ATE under or in connection
with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the STATE under this
Agreement.
It is understood and agreed that pursuant to Government Code
Section 895.4, STATE shall defend, indemnify and save harmless the CITY,
all officers and employees from all claims, suits or actions of every name,
kind and description brought for or on account of injuries to or death of any
person or damage to property resulting from anything done or omitted to be
done by the STATE under or in connection with any work, authority or
jurisdiction delegated to the STATE under this Agreement.
F.
MAINTENANCE FUNCTIONS:
The CITY shall perform only those maintenance functions delegated, as
identified, in Section H "DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE" of this
Agreement.
A brief description of those maintenance functions delegated to the CITY are
included in this section.
The functions are identified by the Caltrans HM
Program Codes.
HM2C SlOPES/DRAINAGEIVEGETATION
This provides for cleaning, maintaining, and repairing structures, fences, and
other appurtenances between the roadbed and the outer highway
right-of-way boundary line.
It also includes weed and brush control by
chemical, biological or mechanical methods, trimming and removal of trees
and pest control.
The following problems are included:
1. Unpaved Shoulder Management
2. Nonlandscaped Weed Control
3. Nonlandscaped Tree/BushlVegetation
4. Fence Repair
The CITY will act as agent for the STATE to notify abutting property owners
of deficiencies in the sidewalks and request owners to make the necessary
repairs, or, furnish names and addresses of those owners.
HM2D LITTER/DEBRIS
This provides for removal of litter and debris from roadway surfaces and
roadsides.
The following problems are included:
1.
Debris/Carcass Pickup
2.
Litter pickup
3.
Spills of non-toxic substances
4.
Sweeping
Unless CITY itself is negligent, the STATE will, not withstanding the
provisions of Section E, defend, indemnify and save harmless the CITY
against claims for this function (HM2D Litter/Debris) if work meets the
3
248 of 763

--- page 249 ---
following criteria:
Work will be performed at fourteen (14) day intervals.
Call-outs will be
responded to within a reasonable time or the STATE's Maintenance Manager
will be notified.
HM2E LANDSCAPING
This provides for watering, fertilizing, removal of shrubs, and control of
weeds in planted areas.
It also includes trimming, removal, and spraying of
trees, replacement of plants, shrubs, and trees, and pest control in planted
areas.
The following problems are included:
1.
Weed Control
2.
Pruning/Thinning/Removing/Replacing
3.
Irrigation
HM2G PUBLIC FACILITIES
This provides for work to provide a clean and attractive appearance for park-
and-ride lots.
Maintenance of appurtenances such as roadway surfacing,
signs, pavement markings, and electrical installations are to be included in
this program.
The following problems are also included:
1.
Maintaining Plants
2.
Weed Control
3.
Litter Pickup
4.
Sweeping
5.
Emptying Trash Cans
6.
Graffiti
7.
Repairing Fences
8.
Repairing Bicycle Lockers
9.
Irrigation
HM4K ELECTRICAL
This includes maintenance work performed on highway electrical facilities
including flashing beacons, traffic signals, traffic-signal systems, safety
lighting and sign lighting.
It also includes the electrical energy for these
items.
Timing sequence of traffic signals shall be determined after consultation with
the CITY; however, the decision of the District Director of Transportation
shall be final.
COST SHARING OF ELECTRICAL FACILITIES
The STATE will not pay for the maintenance, installation, repair, servicing,
nor power for ordinary street lighting; however, lighting at intersections,
which qualify as safety lighting under warrants approved/accepted by the
STATE, will be paid for when approved and specifically authorized by the
District Director.
Where such lighting has been specifically authorized, the
4
249 of 763

--- page 250 ---
maintenance and operating costs thereof shall be shared between the STATE
and the CITY on a pro rata basis in the same ratio as the number of legs in
the intersection under each jurisdiction bears to the total number of legs.
The cost of maintaining traffic signals or other electrically operated traffic
control devices now in place or those which may hereafter be installed at the
intersection of any STATE highway route and any CITY street/road shall be
shared between the STATE and the CITY on a pro rata basis in the same
ratio as the number of legs in the intersection under each jurisdiction bears to
the total number of legs. The same principle of cost distribution shall apply
to freeway interchanges. The participation ratio shall be based on the ratio
of the number of legs of the respective agencies to the total number of legs
of the intersection.
EMERGENCY OPERATION OF TRAFFIC SIGNALS
Flashing operation shall be considered as the "primary emergency mode of
operation at all intersections."
Red/Yellow or all red may be used, as
determined by STATE.
Every effort shall be made to restore the intersection to normal operation as
soon as possible.
G.
EXPENDITURE AUTHORIZATION:
The STATE will reimburse the CITY for actual cost of all routine maintenance
work performed by CITY as delegated under Section H of this Agreement,
but is agreed that during any fiscal year, the maximum expenditure on any
route shall not exceed the amount as shown on Section H of this Agreement,
unless such expenditure is revised by an amended Agreement or otherwise
adjusted or modified as hereinafter provided for.
A new "DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE" sheet (Section H) will be provided
annually by the STATE for the ensuing fiscal year, if necessary, to ensure
equitable annual cost.
The expenditure per route for routine maintenance work as referred to above
may be increased or decreased, redistributed between routes, or additional
expenditures for specific projects may be made, when such adjustment of
expenditures for routine maintenance or such specific work is authorized in
writing by the District Director or his authorized representative.
Additional expenditures or adjustment of expenditures thus authorized shall
apply during the fiscal year designated therein and shall not be deemed to
permanently modify or change the basic maximum expenditure per route as
hereinafter specified.
An adjustment of the said maximum expenditure,
either increase or decrease, shall not affect other terms of the Agreement.
5
250 of 763

--- page 251 ---
H.
DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE:
The specific maintenance function indicated below (and on "EXHIBIT A") is hereby
delegated to the CITY.
This delegation of maintenance function set forth herein
does not include areas and functions of which the control and maintenance rest
with the local authority under the terms of Freeway Agreements and/or Freeway
Maintenance Agreements.
Maximum
Annual
Route
Length
Program
Authorized
No.
Miles
Description of Routing
Delegated
Expenditure
82
4.40
EI Camino Real from south city limits at 43rd
HM2C
$
0.00
Avenue to north city limits at Peninsula Avenue;
HM2D
17,750.00
a length of 4.40 miles, of which half width from
HM2E
0.00
Barroilhet Avenue to Peninsula Avenue, a length
HM4K
6,750.00
of 0.06 mile, lies within the CITY.
(Footnotes 1, 2, 3)
Total Authorized Route 82
$
24,500.00
92
5.17
J. Arthur Younger Freeway from west city limits
HM4K
$
4,650.00
near Ralston Polhemus Road Overcrossing to city
limits 2,320 feet west of Foster City Boulevard
Overcrossing, a length of 5.17 miles.
Total Authorized Route 92
$
4,650.00
101
5.13
Bayshore Freeway from city limits 2,175 feet
HM2G
$
0.00
north of Ralston Avenue Overcrossing to north
city limits 2,100 feet north of Peninsula Avenue
Overcrossing, a length of 5.13 miles.
(Footnote 4)
Total Authorized Route 101
$
0.00
TOTAL AUTHORIZED AMOUNT
$
29,150.00
Footnotes:
1.
2.
3.
4.
Length of street to be cleaned - 16.9 curb-miles
CITY will maintain, at CITY expense, all portions of the Hillsdale Boulevard structure
across EI Camino Real above the bridge deck (See Exhibit B).
CITY will maintain median landscaping at CITY expense.
CITY will maintain, at CITY expense, the park-and-ride lot located on the
northbound side of Route 101 at Third Avenue.
6
251 of 763

--- page 252 ---
I.
SUBMISSION OF BILLS:
The CITY will submit bills in a consistent periodic sequence (monthly, quarterly,
semiannually, or annually).
Bills for less than $500 shall not be submitted more
than once each quarter.
Bills must be submitted promptly following close of
corresponding billing period and should be coded according to the Caltrans HM
Program Code as outlined in this Agreement.
Bills submitted for periods prior to the
last fiscal year will be deemed waived and not be honored.
Equipment shall be charged at mutually acceptable rental rates and labor and
material at actual cost.
The CITY will be allowed to recover overhead and
administrative costs only to the extent that such charges include applicable
expenses incurred by the CITY in the execution of the work. Said factors and
method shall be subject to approval by the STATE.
Maintenance services provided by contract or on a unit-rate basis with overhead
costs included shall not have these above-mentioned charges added again.
An
actual handling charge for processing this type of bill will be allowed the CITY.
Emergency and storm repairs performed by the CITY will be paid for only with prior
approval of the STATE's Maintenance Manager of that specific area.
In addition,
the CITY should immediately notify the STATE's Maintenance Manager for the area
of any storm damage or other emergency condition affecting the STATE highway.
The CITY shall maintain, on a generally accepted accounting basis, complete and
accurate records that support all billings. These records shall be made available to
STATE representatives for review during normal business hours for a period of three
(3) years after payment of said billings.
J.
TERM OF AGREEMENT:
This Agreement shall become effective July 1. 1998 and shall remain in full force
and effect until amended or terminated.
This Agreement may be amended or terminated at any time upon mutual consent of
the parties thereto. This Agreement also may be terminated by either party upon
thirty (30) days' notice to the other parties.
7
252 of 763

--- page 253 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hands and seals the day and year
first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Approv!Jd as to form and Procedure:
City AMrney
8
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
JAMES VAN LOBEN SELS
Director of Transportation
By:
~~~·0tb~g
GLENN E. BEHM
Date
District Division Chief
Maintenance
253 of 763

--- page 254 ---
EXHIBIT A
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting
by CITY for STATE in Accordance with the
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo
AGREEMENT EFFECTIVE JULY 1. 1998
ROUTE
POSTMILE
INTERSECTION
KAlE
EQUIPMENT
INT OR POLE NO.
UNITS % STATE EQUIV UNIT
82
8.60 Forty-Third Avenue
2A
150W HPS
9404, 9406
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
8.95 Thirty-Ninth Avenue
2A
150W HPS
531,689
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
82
9.01 Thirty-Eighth Avenue
2A
250W HPS
530,9387
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
82
9.10 Thirty-Seventh Avenue
2A
400WMV
2572,2573
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
9.16 Thirty-Sixth Avenue
2A
150W HPS
9380
1.00
66.66&7
0.6667
82
9.33 Hillsdale Boulevard
2A
250W HPS
15385D, 15384, 16377B,
4.00
100.0000
4.0000
15386, 16388, 16389, 16390
2A
100W HPS
16361,16362, 16363, 16364
6.00
100.0000
6.0000
2A
250W HPS
16372B, 16386, 16376B
1.00
50.0000
0.5000
meter
Signals-TA
50.0000
82
9.56 Thirty-First Avenue
2A
200W HPS
17671
1.00
50.0000
0.5000
2A
250W HPS
2574,2575,2576,2577
4.00
50.0000
20000
82
9.77 Twenty-Eighth Avenue
2A
200W HPS
9363
1.00
666667
0.6667
82
9.85 Twenty-Seventh Avenue
2A
250W HPS
24216, 9385
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
O.oooq
82
10.02 Twenty-Fifth Avenue
2A
200W HPS
918
1.00
50.0000
0.5000
2A
250W HPS
2580,2581
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
10.06 Twenty-Fourth Avenue
2A
200W HPS
9354
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
10.13 Twenty-Third Avenue
2A
200W HPS
9351,9352
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
82
10.19 Twenty-Second Avenue
2A
200W HPS
9347,9348
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
82
10.30 Twenty-First Avenue
2A
150W HPS
9344
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
10.37 Twentieth Avenue
2A
150W HPS
12974
1.00
50.0000
0.5000
2A
250W HPS
24218
1.00
50.0000
0.5000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
10.72 Seventeenth Avenue
2A
250W HPS
19076, 19077
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
2A
400W HPS
19078
1.00
50.0000
0.5000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
10.76 Borel Avenue
2A
200WHPS
19024
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
10.82 Sixteenth Avenue
2A
200W HPS
9329, 9330
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
82
10.89 Fifteenth Avenue
2A
200W HPS
9326,9327
2.00
666667
1.3333
Page 1 of 3
254 of 763

--- page 255 ---
EXHIBIT A
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting
by CITY for STATE in Accordance with the
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo
82
10.93 Barneson Avenue
2A
250W HPS
2586
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
66.6667
82
10.95 Fourteenth Avenue
2A
250W HPS
23502
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
11.01 Thirteenth Avenue/Madison Avenue
2A
250W HPS
23498
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
2A
250W HPS
23501
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
11.07 Twelfth Avenue/Hobart Avenue
2A
400W HPS
MS4-21, MS4-22
2.00
500000
1.0000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
11.13 Eleventh Avenue/Avila Road
2A
250W HPS
23492,23494
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
82
11.19 Tenth Avenue/Seville Way
2A
250W HPS
23490
1.00
500000
0.5000
82
11.28 Hayward Avenue/Aragon Boulevard
2A
250W HPS
9312,9313
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
82
11.36 Ninth Avenue
2A
250W HPS
2589,2590
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
11.51 Mission Drive
2A
250W HPS
15342
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
11.59 Fifth Avenue
2A
250W HPS
2591,2594
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
1165 Fourth Avenue
2A
250W HPS
2595,2597
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
11.71 Third Avenue
2A
250WHPS
2598,2601
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
11.74 Arroyo Court
2A
250W HPS
9300
1.00
500000
0.5000
82
11.78 Second Avenue
2A
250W HPS
24219,2603
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
66.6667
82
11.84 Crystal Springs Road
2A
250W HPS
2604, MS4-10
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
66.6667
82
11.92 Baldwin Avenue/Baywood Avenue
2A
250W HPS
2606, 2607
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
500000
82
11.98 Saint Matthews Avenue
2A
400WMV
9292
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
12.07 Tilton Avenue/EI Cerrito Avenue
2A
250W HPS
2608,2609
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
500000
82
12.20 Monte Diablo Avenue
2A
400W HPS
9285,9286
2.00
666667
1.3333
82
12.32 East Santa Inez Avenue
2A
200W HPS
9251,9280
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
82
12.35 West Santa Inez Avenue
2A
200WHPS
9279
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
12.42 West Poplar Avenue
2A
250WHPS
2610,2611
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
82
12.51 Hilltop Road
2A
200W HPS
9273, 9274
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
Page 2 of 3
255 of 763

--- page 256 ---
EXHIBIT A
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting
by CITY for STATE in Accordance with the
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo
82
12.64 Clark Drive South
2A
200W HPS
9268
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
12.72 Clark Drive North
2A
200W HPS
277
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
12.80 State Street
2A
250W HPS
279
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
12.86 Warren Road
2A
250W HPS
289, 9261
2.00
66.6667
1.3333
82
12.90 Barroilhet Avenue
2A
200W HPS
9258
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
2A
250W HPS
9259
1.00
66.6667
0.6667
82
12.95 Penninsula Avenue-Park Avenue
2A
250W HPS
16657
1.00
50.0000
0.5000
2A
400WMV
MS4-0, MS4-1, MS4-2
3.00
50.0000
1.5000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
92
10.43 E/B Route 92 Ramps and Alameda
2A
150W HPS
22059,22060
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
De Las Pulgas
2A
250W HPS
22062
1.00
50.0000
0.5000
92
10.56 Alameda De Las Pulgas Overcrossing
2A
250WHPS
22057, 22058
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
meter
Signals-TA
State Maintained
50.0000
92
10.70 W/B Route 92 Ramps and Alameda
2A
250W HPS
22054,22055
2.00
50.0000
1.0000
De Las Pulgas
2A
200W HPS
22061
1.00
50.0000
0.5000
92
11.25 W/B On Ramp from Route 82
2A
250W HPS
22056
1.00
100.0000
1.0000
SUMMARY
EQUIPMENT
EQUIV UNITS
100W HPS
60000
150W HPS
5.5000
200W HPS
14.1667
250W HPS
34.6667
400W HPS
28333
400WMV
3.1667
Page 3 of 3
256 of 763

--- page 257 ---
W
1-
"
N
o '"
a:
>-
f-Z
::;
"
VJ
o
U
EL
!',.::J/J///O
e IE.
...... '-0 .
...... ~ .
..... . '<.,.
Area maintained by CITY
257 of 763

--- page 258 ---
· ~(A ~e.~~.Je-! ~B r~e~e""~ 1\t~-r.r-e~J) 
(A 1>/'te.J..III>Q ''* "'O, 1) II· I • '14 \ 
\(MENDMENT NUMBER 1 
AGREEMENT FOR MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS 
IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
This Amendment No. I to the Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the 
City of San Mateo is made and entered into by and between the State of California, acting by 
and through the Depattment of Transportation, hereinafter referred to as "STATE", and the 
City of San Mateo, hereinafter referred to as "CITY." 
WITNESSETH: 
WHEREAS, an Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San 
Mateo, hereinafter referred to as "AGREEMENT", as provided for in Section 130 of the 
Streets and Highways Code, was executed on June 15, 1998, and 
WHEREAS, AGREEMENT by its terms provides that it may be modified or a111ended 
at any time upon mutual consent of the parties; and 
WHEREAS, the parties hereto now desire that AGREEMENT be amended. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree to amend AGREEMENT as follows: 
I. 
The attached EXHIBIT "A", noted as Amendment No. I (3 pages), hereby replaces 
the existing EXHIBIT A in AGREEMENT in its entirety. 
2. 
Page 6 of AGREEMENT (Section H) is hereby rt:placed wilh the attached Section H. 
3. 
This Amendment No. I to AGREEMENT shall become effective on November I, 
2014. In all other respects, AGREEMENT shall remain in full force and effect until 
amended or terminated. 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT 
OF TRANSPORT A TON 
MALCOLM DOUGHERTY 
Acting Director of Transportation 
By 
~ 
• 
·~ ~-16-ZIJJ'/ 
NADER ESI-IGHIP 
Date 
Deputy District Director 
Maintenance 
258 of 763

--- page 259 ---
'• 
":. . 
AGREEMENT FOR MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS 
IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 15th 
day of June 
1 9...2.§.__, by and between the State of California, acting by and throu-g";-h=t:.;:h;_e __ _ 
Department of Transportation, hereinafter referred to as "STATE," and. the City of 
San Mateo, ·hereinafter referred to as "CITY." 
WITNESSETH: 
A. 
RECITALS: 
The Parties desire to provide for the CITY to perform particular maintenance 
functions on the State highway(s) within the CITY as provided in Section 
130 of the Streets and Highways Code. 
B. 
AGREEMENT: 
This Agreement shall supersede any previous AGREEMENT FOR 
MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO and/or 
Amendments thereto with the CITY. 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and promises herein contained, it is 
agreed: 
The CITY will perform such muintensnce work as is specifically 
delegated to it, on the State highway routes or portions thereof all as 
hereinafter described under Section H hereof or as said Section may be 
subsequently modified with the consent of the parties hereto acting by 
and through their authorized representative. 
C. 
MAINTENANCE DEFINED: 
Maintenance is defined in Section 27 of the Streets and Highways Code as 
follows: 
Section 27. (a) 
(c) 
! \ 
The preservation and keeping of rights of way, and each 
type of roadway, structure, safety convenience or device, 
planting, illumination equipment and other facility, in the 
safe and usable condition to which it has been improved 
or constructed, but does not include reconstruction, or 
other improvement. 
Operation of special safety conveniences and devices, 
and illuminating equipment. 
The special or emergency maintenance or repair 
necessitated by accidents or by storms or other weather 
conditions, slides, settlements or other unusual or 
unexpected damage to a roadway, structure or facility. 
1 
259 of 763

--- page 260 ---
D. 
DEGREE OF MAINTENANCE: 
The degree or extent of maintenance work to be performed and the 
standards therefor shalf be in accordance with the provisions of Section 27 
of the Streets and Highways Code, as· set forth in the· current edition of the 
State Maintenance manual (a copy of which has been provided to the CITY), 
or as may be prescribed from time to time by the District Director. "District 
Director," as used herein, means the District Director of the Department of 
Transportation assigned to the territory in which the CITY is located, or his 
authorized representative. 
The STATE reserves the option to inspect at random all areas of State 
Highways maintained by the CITY to assure conformance to maintenance 
levels. Failure of the CITY to comply with the maintenance levels would be 
reason to terminate this agreement as specified under Section J "Term of 
Agreement." However, this random inspection does not preempt the CITY's 
maintenance responsibilities as specified in this Agreement. 
An encroachment permit will be required for third parties when maintenance 
work is redelegated. Such redelegated work shalf be performed at the same 
levels of service as specified herein and will be subject to the same random 
inspection as provided for work performed directly by CITY forces. 
The level of service of maintenance in each of the programs delegated to the 
CITY has been considered in setting authorized total and route dollar 
amounts. The CITY may perform additional work if desired,. but the STATE 
will not reimburse the CITY for any work in excess of authorized dollars. The 
District Director may authorize adjustments needed because of inflation or 
changes in program emphasis. 
E. 
LEGAL RELATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Nothing in the provisions of this Agreement is intended to create duties or 
obligations to or rights in third parties not parties to this contract or affect 
the legal liability of either party to the contract by imposing any standard of 
care respecting the maintenance of State highways different from the 
standard of care imposed by law. 
It is understood and agreed that neither the STATE nor any officer or 
employee thereof is responsible for any damage or liability occurring by 
reason of anything done or omitted to be done by the CITY under or in 
connectio'n with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the CITY 
under this Agreement. It is understood and agreed that pursuant to 
Government Code Section 895.4 CITY shall defend, indemnify and save 
harmless the State of California, all officers and employees from all claims, 
suits or actions of every name, kind and description brought for or on 
account of injuries to or death of any person or damage to property resulting 
from anything done or omitted to be done by the CITY under or in connection 
with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the CITY under this 
Agreement. 
2 
260 of 763

--- page 261 ---
It is understood and agreed that. neither the CITY nor any officer or employee 
thereof is responsible for any damage or liability occurring by reason of 
anything done or omitted to be done by the ST-ATE under or in connection 
with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the STATE under this 
Agreement. It is understood and agreed that pursuant to Government Code 
Section 895.4, STATE shall defend, indemnify and save harmless the CITY, 
all officers and employees from all claims, suits or actions of every name, 
kind and description brought for or on account of injuries to or death of any 
person or damage to property resulting from anything done or omitted to be 
done by the STATE under or in connection with any work, authority or 
jurisdiction delegated to the STATE under this Agreement. 
F. 
MAINTENANCE FUNCTIONS: 
The CITY shall perform only those maintenance functions delegated, as 
identified, in Section H "DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE" of this 
Agreement. 
A brief description of those maintenance functions delegated to the CITY are 
included in this section. The functions are identified by the Caltrans HM 
Program Codes. 
HM2C SLOPES/DRAINAGE/VEGETATION 
This provides for cleaning, maintaining, and repairing structures, fences, and 
other appurtenances between the roadbed and the outer highway 
right-of-way boundary line. It also includes weed and brush control by 
chemical, biological or mechanical methods, trimming and removal of trees 
and pest control. The following problems are included: 
1. Unpaved Shoulder Management 
2. Nonlandscaped Weed Control 
3. Nonlandscaped Tree/Bush/Vegetation 
4. Fence Repair 
The CITY will act as agent for the STATE to notify abutting property owners 
of deficiencies in the sidewalks and request owners to make the necessary 
repairs, or, furnish names and addresses of those owners. 
HM2D LITTER/DEBRIS 
This provides for removal of litter and debris from roadway surfaces and 
roadsides. ,}hti· following problems are included: 
1. 
Debris/Carcass Pickup 
2. 
Litter pickup 
3. 
Spills of non-toxic substances 
4. 
Sweeping 
Unless CITY itself is negligent, the STATE will, not withstanding the 
provisions of Section E, defend, indemnify and save harmless the CITY 
against claims for this function (HM2D Litter/Debris) if work meets the 
3 
261 of 763

--- page 262 ---
following criteria: 
Work will be performed at fourteen (14) day intervals. Call-outs will be 
responded to within a reasonable time or the STATE's Maintenance Manager 
will be notified. 
HM2E LANDSCAPING 
This provides for watering, fertilizing, removal of shrubs, and control of 
weeds in planted areas. It also includes trimming, removal, and spraying of 
trees, replacement of plants, shrubs, and trees, and pest control in planted 
areas. The following problems are included: 
1. 
Weed Control 
2. 
Pruning/Thinning/Removing/Replacing 
3. 
Irrigation 
HM2G PUBLIC FACILITIES 
This provides for work to provide a clean and attractive appearance for park-
and-ride lots. Maintenance of appurtenances such as roadway surfacing, 
signs, pavement markings, and electrical installations are to be included in 
this program. The following problems are also included: 
1. 
Maintaining Plants 
2. 
Weed Control 
3. 
Litter Pickup 
4. 
Sweeping 
5. 
Emptying Trash Cans 
6. 
Graffiti 
7. 
Repairing Fences 
8. 
Repairing Bicycle Lockers 
9. 
Irrigation 
HM4K ELECTRICAL 
This includes maintenance work performed on highway electrical facilities 
including flashing beacons, traffic signals, traffic-signal systems, safety 
lighting and sign lighting. It also includes the electrical energy for these 
items. 
Timing sequence of traffic signals shall be determined after consultation with 
the CITY; h,pwever, the decision of the District Director of Transportation 
shall be final. 
COST SHARING OF ELECTRICAL FACILITIES 
The STATE will not pay for the maintenance, installation, repair, servicing, 
nor power for ordinary street lighting; however, lighting at intersections, 
which qualify as safety lighting under warrants approved/accepted by the 
STATE, will be paid for when approved and specifically authorized by the 
District Director. Where such lighting has been specifically authorized, the 
4 
262 of 763

--- page 263 ---
maintenance and operating costs thereof shall be shared between the STATE 
and the CITY on a pro rata basis in the same ratio as the number of legs in 
the intersection under each jurisdiction bears to the total number of legs. 
The cost of maintaining traffic signals or other electrically operated traffic 
control devices now in place or those which may hereafter be installed at the 
intersection of any STATE highway route and any CITY street/road shall be 
shared between the STATE and the CITY on a pro rata basis in the same 
ratio as the number of legs in the intersection under each jurisdiction bears to 
the total number of legs. The same principle of cost distribution shall apply 
to freeway interchanges. The participation ratio shall be based on the ratio 
of the number of legs of the respective agencies to the total number of legs 
of the intersection. 
EMERGENCY OPERATION OF TRAFFIC SIGNALS 
Flashing operation shall be considered as the "primary emergency mode of 
operation at all intersections." Red/Yellow or all red may be used, as 
determined by STATE. 
Every effort shall be made to restore the intersection to normal operation as 
soon as possible. 
G. 
EXPENDITURE AUTHORIZATION: 
The STATE will reimburse the CITY for actual cost of all routine maintenance 
work performed by CITY as delegated under Section H of this Agreement, 
but is agreed that during any fiscal year, the maximum expenditure on any 
route shall not exceed the amount as shown on Section H of this Agreement, 
unless such expenditure is revised by an amended Agreement or otherwise 
adjusted or modified as hereinafter provided for. 
A new "DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE" sheet (Section H) wilf be provided 
annually by the STATE for the ensuing fiscal year, if necessary, to ensure 
equitable annual cost. 
The expenditure per route for routine maintenance work as referred to above 
may be increased or decreased, redistributed between routes, or additional 
expenditures for specific projects may be made, when such adjustment of 
expenditures for routine maintenance or such specific work is authorized in 
writing by the District Director or his authorized representative. 
· 
Additional eti<penditures or adjustment of expenditures thus authorized shall 
apply during the fiscal year designated therein and shall not be deemed to 
permanently modify or change the basic maximum expenditure per route as 
hereinafter specified. An adjustment of the said maximum expenditure, 
either increase or decrease, shall not affect other terms of the Agreement. 
5 
263 of 763

--- page 264 ---
EXHIBIT A 
AMENDMENI NO. 1 
Effective November 1, 2014 
H. 
. DELEGATION OF IVIAINTENANCE: 
Route 
No. 
The specific maintenance function indicated below land on "EXHIBIT A") is hereby 
delegated to the CITY, This delegation of maintenance function set forth herein 
· 
does not include areas and functions of which the comrol and maintenance rest 
with the local authority under the terms of Freeway Agreements ang/or Freeway 
MaintemlnCe Agreements. 
Length 
Miles 
Description of Routing 
Maximum 
Annual 
Program 
Authorized 
DeiBgated 
Expenditure 
·----·--.. -----------
---------------------------~----~. 
82 
4..40 
92 
5. i 7 
'I 01 
5.13 
r:ootnotes: 
1' 
2. 
3. 
4-. 
EI Caml:n-o Real from south c1ty limits at 43rd 
Avenue to north C'ity limits tit-Peninsufa Avenue; 
HM2C 
$ 
0.00 
a length of 4.40 n1lles, of which half widtl11"rom 
Bwroilhct Avenue to Pe-ninuul~ Avenue, n length 
of 0.06 mile, lies within the CITY. 
HM20 
40,000 .. 00 
HM2E 
0.00 
HIVI4.K 
12,000.00 
(Footnotes 1, 2, 3) 
Total Authorized Route 82 
$ 
J, Arthur Younger F·reeway ·from wesr city !tmits 
near Ralston PolheiTJUS Road Overctd::.sing to city 
fim1ts 2,320 feGt west ol ~OSter CitY Boulevard 
Ovf:rcrossing, t1 lt!rldth of 5.17 tniles, 
HM4K 
Total Authorized Route 92 
8ayshoro f:reewoy from city !irnlts 2,175 feet 
nof't'h of Ralston Avenue Overc·ros~in_g to north 
city limits -2, lOO feet t1orth of Peninsura Avenue 
Overcro.ssing, (l hmgth of 5. '13 miles, 
{FocHhote 4) 
HM2G 
$ 
Total Authorized Route 101 
$ 
TOTAL AUTHORIZED AMOUNT 
$ 
52,000.00 
4,650.00 
4,6&0.00 
0.00 
0.00 
56,650.00 
Le~gth of ztreet to be cleaned- 16,9 ourb-rniles 
CITY will m.a-l'nti:lirl; at Ci-TY expense, aH portions or tho Hill.sclale BoulovarcJ strur;ture 
t:tcros.S El Camino Ileal abovn the b(idge deck fSce E;xhibit BJ, 
CITY vJtlf mrih)ta!n median land-scapin~l at CITY expense, 
CITY will maintain, at CITY expense, the pork-anti-ride lot located on the 
Mrthbountl sldo of Houte 101 ot Third Avenue. 
264 of 763

--- page 265 ---
I 
I. 
SUBMISSION OF BILLS: 
The CITY will submit bills in a consistent periodic sequence (monthly, quarterly, 
semiannually, or annually). Bills for less than $500 shall not be submitted more 
than once each quarter. Bills must be submitted promptly following close of 
corresponding billing period and should be coded according to the Caltrans HM 
Program Code as outlined in this Agreement. Bills submitted for periods prior to the 
last fiscal year will be deemed waived and not be honored. 
Equipment shall be charged at mutually acceptable tental rates and labor and 
material at actual cost. The CITY will be allowed to recover overhead and 
administrative costs only to the extent that such charges include applicable 
expenses incurred by the CITY in the execution of the work. Said factors and 
method shall be subject to approval by the STATE. 
Maintenance services provided by contract or on a unit-rate basis with overhead 
costs included shall not have these above-mentioned charges added again. An 
actual handling charge for processing this type of bill will be allowed the CITY. 
Emergency and storm repairs performed by the CITY will be paid for only with prior 
approval of the STATE's Maintenance Manager of that specific area. In addition, 
the CITY should immediately notify the STATE's Maintenance Manager for the area 
of any storm damage or other emergency condition affecting the STATE highway. 
The CITY shall maintain, on a generally accepted accounting basis, complete and 
accurate records that support all billings. These records shall be made available to 
STATE representatives for review during normal business hours for a period of three 
(3) years after payment of said billings. 
J. 
TERM OF AGREEMENT: 
This Agreement shall become effective ,July 1, 1998 and shall remain in full force 
and effect until amended or terminated. 
· 
This Agreement may be amended or terminated at any time upon mutual consent of 
the parties thereto. This Agreement also may be terminated by either party upon 
thirty (30) days' notice to the other parties. 
7 
265 of 763

--- page 266 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hands and seals the day and year 
first above written. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Approv<Jd as to form and Procedure: 
City Att6rney 
8 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
JAMES VAN LOBEN SELS 
Director of Transportation 
By: 
~ 
~ f1L.__.<¥J¢g 
GLENN E. BEHM 
Date 
District Division Chief 
Maintenance 
266 of 763

--- page 267 ---
ROUTE 
POST-
INTERSECTION 
MILE 
82 
8.60 
Forty- Third Avenue 
82 
8.95 
Thirty-Ninth Avenue 
82 
9.01 
Thirty-Eighth Avenue 
82 
9.10 
Thirty-Seventh Avenue 
82 
9.16 
Thirty-Sixth Avenue 
82 
9.33 
Hillsdale Boulevard 
82 
9.56 
Thirty-First Avenue 
82 
9.77 
Twenty-Eighth Avenue 
82 
9.85 
Twenty-Seventh Avenue 
82 
10.02 
Twenty-Fifth Avenue 
82 
10.06 
Twenty-Fourth Avenue 
82 
10.13 
Twenty-Third Avenue 
82 
10.19 
Twenty-Second Avenue 
82 
10.30 
Twenty-First Avenue 
82 
10.37 
Twentieth Avenue 
82 
10.72 
Seventeenth Avenue 
82 
10.76 
Borel Avenue 
82 
10.82 
Sixteenth Avenue 
82 
10.89 
Fifteenth Avenue 
Page 1 of 3 
EXHIBIT A 
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting 
By CITY for STATE in Accordance with the 
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo 
AGREEMENT EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1998-Amended #1 __ 2014 
RATE 
EQUIPMENT 
INT OR POLE NO. 
UNITS 
%STATE 
2A 
150W HPS 
9404,9406 
2.00 
66.6667% 
meter 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000% 
2A 
150W HP5 
531, 689 
2.00 
66.6667% 
2A 
250W HPS 
530,9387 
2.00 
66.6667% 
2A 
200W HPS 
2572,2573 
4.00 
50.0000% 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000% 
2A 
137 LED 
9380 
4.00 
66.6667% 
2A 
250W HPS 
15385D,15384,16377B, 
4.00 
100% 
15386, 16388, 16389, 
2A 
100W HPS 
16390, 16361, 16362, 
6.00 
100% 
2A 
250W HPS 
16364,163728,16386, 
1.00 
50.0000% 
meter 
Signals- TA 
163768 
50.0000% 
2A 
200W HPS 
17671 
1.00 
50.0000% 
2A 
250W HPS 
2574,2575,2576,2577 
4.00 
50.0000% 
2A 
200W HPS 
9363 
1.00 
66.6667% 
2A 
200W HPS 
24216, 9385 
4.00 
50.0000% 
meter 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000% 
2A 
200W HPS 
918 
1.00 
50.0000% 
2A 
250W HPS 
2580,2581 
2.00 
50.0000% 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000% 
2A 
200W HPS 
9354 
1.00 
66.6667% 
2A 
200W HPS 
9351,9352 
2.00 
66.6667% 
2A 
200W HPS 
9347,9348 
2.00 
66.6667% 
2A 
150W HPS 
9344 
1.00 
66.6667% 
2A 
150W HPS 
12974 
1.00 
50.0000% 
2A 
250W HPS 
24218 
1.00 
50.0000% 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000% 
2A 
200W HPS 
19076,19077,19078 
6.00 
50.0000% 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000% 
2A 
200W HPS 
19024 
1.00 
66.6667% 
2A 
200W HPS 
9329,9330 
2.00 
66.6667% 
2A 
200W HPS 
9326,9327 
2.00 
66.6667% 
EQUJV UNIT 
NOTES 
1.3333 
1.3333 
1.3333 
2.0000 
2.6667 
4.000 
6.0000 
0.5000 
0.5000 
2.0000 
0.6667 
2.0000 
0.0000 
0.5000 
1.0000 
0.6667 
1.3333 
1.3333 
0.6667 
0.5000 
0.5000 
3.0000 
0.6667 
1.3333 
1.3333 
267 of 763

--- page 268 ---
82 
10.93 
82 
10.95 
82 
11.01 
82 
11.07 
82 
11.13 
82 
11.19 
82 
11.28 
82 
11.36 
82 
11.51 
82 
11.59 
82 
11.65 
82 
11:11 
82 
11.74 
82 
11.78 
82 
11.84 
82 
11.92 
82 
11.98 
82 
12.07 
82 
12.20 
82 
12.32 
EXHIBIT A 
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting 
By CITY for STATE in Accordance with the 
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo 
. 
Barneson Avenue 
2A 
250W HPS 
2586 
3.00 
66.6667 
meter 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
66.6667 
Fourteenth Avenue 
2A 
250W HPS 
23502 
1.00 
66.6667 
Thirteenth Avenue/Madison 
2A 
250W HPS 
23498 
1.00 
66.6667 
Avenue 
2A 
250W HPS 
. 23501 
1.00 
66.6667 
Twelfth Avenue/Hobart 
2A 
400W HPS 
MS4-21, MS4-22 
2.00 
50.0000 
Avenue 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000 
Eleventh Avenue/Avila Road 
2A 
250W HPS 
23492, 23494 
2.00 
50.0000 
Tenth Avenue/Seville Way 
2A 
250W HPS 
23490 
2.00 
50.0000 
Hayward Avenue/Aragon Blvd. 
2A 
2SOW HPS 
9312,9313 
2.00 
50.0000 
Ninth Avenue 
2A 
250W HPS 
2589,2590 
2.00 
66.6667 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
Mission Drive 
2A 
2SOW HPS 
15342 
1.00 
66.6667 
Fifth Avenue 
2A 
200W HPS(2) 
2591,2594 
4.00 
50.0000 
&137LED (2) 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000 
Fourth Avenue 
2A 
200W HPS(2) 
2595,2597 
4.00 
50.0000 
&137LED (2) 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000 
Third Avenue 
2A 
200W HPS 
2598,2601 
4.00 
50.0000 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000 
Arroyo Court 
2A 
250W HPS 
9300 
1.00 
50.0000 
Second Avenue 
2A 
250W HPS 
24219, 2603 
2.00 
66.6667 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
66.6667 
Crystal Springs Road 
2A 
250W HPS 
2604, MS4-10 
2.00 
66.6667 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
66.6667 
Baldwin Avenue/Baywood 
2A 
250W HPS 
2606,2607 
2.00 
50.0000 
Avenue 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000 
Saint Matthews Avenue 
2A 
400WMV 
9292 
1.00 
66.6667 
Tilton Avenue/EI Cerrito 
2A 
250W HPS 
2608,2609 
2.00 
50.0000 
Avenue 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000 
Monte Diablo Avenue 
2A 
400W HPS 
9285,9286 
2.00. 
66.6667 
East Santa Inez Avenue 
2A 
I 200W HPS 
9251,9280 
2.00 
66.6667 
---
2 
2.0000 
• 
0.6667 
0.6667 
0.6667 
1.0000 
1.0000 
1.0000 
1.0000 
1.3333 
0.6667 
2.0000 
2.0000 
. 
2.0000 
0.5000 
1.3333 
1.3333 
1.0000 
0.6667 
1.0000 
1.3333 
i 
1.3333 
I 
268 of 763

--- page 269 ---
82 
12.35 
West Santa Inez Avenue 
82 
12.42 
West Poplar Avenue 
82 
12.51 
Hilltop Road 
82 
12.64 
Clark Drive South 
82 
12.72 
Clark Drive North 
82 
12.80 
State Street · 
82 
12.86 
Warren Road 
82 
1 12.90 
Barroilhet Avenue 
82 
1 12.95 
Peninsula Avenue- Park 
Avenue 
92 
1 1o.43 
E/B Route 92 Ramps and 
Alameda De Las Pulgas 
92 
10.56 
Alameda De Las Pulgas 
Overcrossing 
92 
10.70 
W/B Route 92 Ramps and 
Alameda De Las Pulgas 
92 
11.25 
W /B On Ramp from Route 82 
EXHIBIT A 
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting 
By CITY for STATE in Accordance with the 
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo 
2A 
200WHPS 
9279 
1.00 
66.6667 
2A 
250W HPS 
2610,2611 
2.00 
66.6667 
meter 
Signals- TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000 
2A 
200W HPS 
9273,9274 
2.00 
66.6667 
2A 
200W HPS 
9268 
1.00 
66.6667 
2A 
200W HPS 
277 
1.00 
66.6667 
2A 
250W HPS 
279 
1.00 
66.6667 
2A 
250W HPS 
289,9261 
2.00 
66.6667 
2A 
200W HPS 
9258 
1.00 
66.6667 
2A 
250W HPS 
9259 
1.00 _:_ 
66.6667 
2A 
250W HPS 
16657 
1.00 
50.0000 
2A 
400WMV 
MS4·0, MS4·1, MS4-2 
3.00 
50.0000 
meter 
Signals -TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000 
2A 
150W HPS 
22059,22060 
2.00 
50.0000 
2A 
250W HPS 
22062 
1.00 
50.0000 
State Maintained 
2A 
250W HPS 
22057, 22058 
2.00 
50.0000 
meter 
Signals -TA 
State Maintained 
50.0000 
2A 
250W HPS 
22054,22055 
2.00 
50.0000 
2A 
200W HPS 
22061 
1.00 
50.0000 
State Maintained 
2A 
200W HPS 
22065 
3.00 
100.000 
State Maintained 
3 
0.6667 
1.3333 
I 
1.3333 
I 
0.6667 
0.6667 
0.6667 
I 
1.3333 
I 
0.6667 
0.6667 
0.5000 
1.5000 
1.0000 
All SR92 are State 
0.5000 
Maintained, except 
for 1 double arm pole 
1.0000 
in middle of island 
which is connected to 
1.00000 
City of San Mateo 
0.5000 
circuit. 
3.0000 
269 of 763

--- page 270 ---
.. 
w 
. 
~ 
;!i "' 
f- "' 
U1 
0 a. 
i/) 
I ! 
j'i 
I 
. I 
' 
~
/ .......... : .: ............... .i,i 
/""'' ........... 
ri ........... ''"'11 
~-~::: :-:-.::.:}: ~:.:::.:::'::::::\\ 
Jj...... .. .... ;. I 
. 
.. .. . " 
I-l-
o.u 
f-
N 
" 
0 "' 
0: 
- l-
1: z ::;: 
" 
on 
0 u 
r- -
1-u a: .,. 
f-
U1 
Ci 
\:·~··············•········::··:··:In:~:·• ~ 
l-'-
-<?' 
-= 
-
EL 
CAMINO 
'/ . J 
.. .. . "- . . " 
... . . . 
'I' I . i! 
!1 ::1/[Ti:{:_~ 1\ : ·-:> :.JI/':~f 
~~~ 
~=~ 
R TE. 
C2 
.,. 
1. ........... . 
/····· , .. , .... . 
,!'::::::::::::::: 
::::: ': \ 
--,cr=::::::===::;\1i~)t~~······ 
. '..... :\ '' 
,..--.....__ 
/ 
'. 
I 
\ 
------------' 
l 
1 
Area maintained by CITY ::-:-:-::--:-:-:-:; 
Ill 
!::: 
OJ 
:t: 
>< 
w 
270 of 763

--- page 271 ---
(A mended Ag reement Atrelod)

4
(Aventweut Nod, (1-1-14)% (Amerdinent No.2, |-2I- ie)
MENDMENT NUMBER 1
AGREEMENT FOR MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS
IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO

This Amendment No. | to the Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the
City of San Mateo is made and entered into by and between the State of California, acting by

and through the Department of Transportation, hereinafter referred to as “STATE”, and the
City of San Mateo, hereinafter referred to as “CITY.”

WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, an Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San
Mateo, hereinafter réferred to as “AGREEMENT”, as provided for in Section 130 of the

Streets and Highways Code, was executed on June 15, 1998, and

WHEREAS, AGREEMENT by its terms provides that it may be modified or amended
at any time upon mutual consent of the parties; and

WHEREAS, the parties hereto now desire that AGREEMENT be amended.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree to amend AGREEMENT as follows:

1. The attached EXHIBIT “A”, noted as Amendment No. | (3 pages), hereby replaces
the existing EXHIBIT A in AGREEMENT in its entirety.

to

Page 6 of AGREEMENT (Section H) is hereby replaced with the attached Section H.

3) This Amendment No. | to AGREEMENT shall become effective on November |.
2014. In all other respects, AGREEMENT shall remain in full force and effect until
amended or terminated.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATON

MALCOLM DOUGHERTY
Acting Director of Transportation

By

NADER ESHGHIP

Deputy District Director
Maintenance

271 of 763


--- page 272 ---
STAT2 OF CALIFORNIA—BUSINESS, TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING AGENCY Edmund G. Brown Jr._, Governor
>»)

DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
Maintenance Services

111- Grand Avenue

Oakland, Ca 94612 a
(510) 286-4443

Be energy efficient!

January 12, 2016
Mr. Larry Patterson Brad B, Vadevumed

Public Works Director
City of San Mateo

330 W. 20% Ave

San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Amendment #2 (Sharing Cost of Electrical Facilities on State Highways) to
Maintenance Agreement.

Dear Mr. Patterson,

Attached for your review and approval is an Amendment (Amendment #2) to the Exhibit
“A” of the Maintenance Agreement between the City of San Mateo and the California
Department of Transportation dated June 15, 1998. This amendment will include the
addition of the Pedestrian Hybrid Beacons and/or Safety Lights located at West 39th Ave
and 22™¢ Avenue on El Camino Real (Hwy 82). Additional electrical billing will begin at
completion of signal installation and acceptance of project. Please add this to your original
copy of the Agreement dated June 15, 1998.

If you are in agreement with these changes, please acknowledge your concurrence by
returning two signed copies of this letter to the attention of Alireza Rezaee at the above
referenced address.

Should you have questions, please contact Arthur P. Duffy at (51 0) 622-8712.

Sincerely, *

Nader Eshghipour
Deputy District Director
Maintenance

Attachment

WE, the City of San Mateo acknowledge receipt of the above noted revision of Exhibit “A”.

“Paro > l Lo don eh Fin ies \ 2 \\
DATE

NAME TITLE
City of San Mateo

“Caltrans improves mobility across California”

272 of 763


--- page 273 ---
AGREEMENT FOR MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS
IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO

THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 15th day of _June
19_98 _, by and between the State of California, acting by and through the
Department of Transportation, hereinafter referred to as “STATE,” and the City of
San Mateo, hereinafter referred to as “CITY.”

WITNESSETH:
A. RECITALS:

The Parties desire to provide for the CITY to perform particular maintenance
functions on the State highway(s) within the CITY as provided in Section
130 of the Streets and Highways Code.

B, AGREEMENT:

This Agreement shall supersede any previous AGREEMENT FOR
MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO and/or
Amendments thereto with the CITY.

In consideration of the mutual covenants and promises herein contained, it is
agreed:

The CITY will perform such maintenance work as is specifically
delegated to it, on the State highway routes or portions thereof all as
hereinafter described under Section H hereof or as said Section may be
subsequently modified with the consent of the parties hereto acting by
and through their authorized representative.

Cc, MAINTENANCE DEFINED:

Maintenance is defined in Section 27 of the Streets and Highways Code as
follows:

Section 27, (a) The preservation and keeping of rights of way, and each
type of roadway, structure, safety convenience or device,
planting, illumination equipment and other facility, in the
safe and usable condition to which it has been improved
or constructed, but does not include reconstruction, or
other improvement.

“(b) Operation of special safety conveniences and devices,

and illuminating equipment.

(c} The special or emergency maintenance or repair
necessitated by accidents or by storms or other weather
conditions, slides, settlements or other unusual or
unexpected damage to a roadway, structure or facility.

273 of 763


--- page 274 ---
DEGREE OF MAINTENANCE:

The degree or extent of maintenance work to be performed and the
standards therefor shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 27
of the Streets and Highways Code, as set forth in the current edition of the
State Maintenance manual (a copy of which has been provided to the CITY),
or as may be prescribed from time to time by the District Director. “District
Director,” as used herein, means the District Director of the Department of
Transportation assigned to the territory in which the CITY is located, or his
authorized representative.

The STATE reserves the option to inspect at random all areas of State
Highways maintained by the CITY to assure conformance to maintenance
levels. Failure of the CITY to comply with the maintenance levels would be
reason to terminate this agreement as specified under Section J “Term of
Agreement.” However, this random inspection does not preempt the CITY's
maintenance responsibilities as specified in this Agreement.

An encroachment permit will be required for third parties when maintenance
work is redelegated. Such redelegated work shall be performed at the same
levels of service as specified herein and will be subject to the same random
inspection as provided for work performed directly by CITY forces.

The level of service of maintenance in each of the programs delegated to the
CITY has been considered in setting authorized total and route dollar
amounts. The CITY may perform additional work if desired, but the STATE
will not reimburse the CITY for any work in excess of authorized dollars. The
District Director may authorize adjustments needed because of inflation or
changes in program emphasis.

LEGAL RELATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES:

Nothing in the provisions of this Agreement is intended to create duties or
obligations to or rights in third parties not parties to this contract or affect
the legal liability of either party to the contract by imposing any standard of
care respecting the maintenance of State highways different from the
standard of care imposed by law,

It is understood and agreed that neither the STATE nor any officer or
employee thereof is responsible for any damage or liability occurring by
reason of anything done or omitted to be done by the CITY under or in
connection with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the CITY
under this Agreement. It is understood and agreed that pursuant to
Government Code Section 895.4 CITY shall defend, indemnify and save
harmless the State of California, all officers and employees from all claims,
suits or actions of every name, kind and description brought for or on
account of injuries to or death of any person or damage to Property resulting
from anything done or omitted to be done by the CITY under or in connection
with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the CITY under this
Agreement.

274 of 763


--- page 275 ---
It is understood and agreed that neither the CITY nor any officer or employee
thereof is responsible for any damage or liability occurring by reason of
anything done or omitted to be done by the SKATE under or in connection
with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the STATE under this
Agreement. It is understood and agreed that pursuant to Government Code
Section 895.4, STATE shall defend, indemnify and save harmless the CY,
all officers and employees from all claims, suits or actions of every name,
Kind and description brought for or on account of injuries to or death of any
person or damage to property resulting from anything done or omitted to be
done by the STATE under or in connection with any work, authority or
jurisdiction delegated to the STATE under this Agreement.

MAINTENANCE FUNCTIONS:

The CITY shall perform only those maintenance functions delegated, as
identified, in Section H “DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE” of this
Agreement.

A brief description of those maintenance functions delegated to the CITY are
included in this section. The functions are identified by the Caltrans HM
Program Codes.

HM2C SLOPES/DRAINAGE/VEGETATION

This provides for cleaning, maintaining, and repairing structures, fences, and
other appurtenances between the roadbed and the outer highway
right-of-way boundary line. It also includes weed and brush control by
chemical, biological or mechanical methods, trimming and removal of trees
and pest control. The following problems are included:

1. Unpaved Shoulder Management

2. Nonlandscaped Weed Control

3. Nonlandscaped Tree/Bush/Vegetation
4. Fence Repair

The CITY will act as agent for the STATE to notify abutting property owners
of deficiencies in the sidewalks and request owners to make the necessary
repairs, or, furnish names and addresses of those owners.

HM2D LITTER/DEBRIS

This provides for removal of litter and debris from roadway surfaces and
roadsides. The following problems are included:

Debris/Carcass Pickup

Litter pickup

Spills of non-toxic substances
Sweeping

Untess CITY itself is negligent, the STATE will, not withstanding the
provisions of Section E, defend, indemnify and save harmless the CITY
against claims for this function (HM2D Litter/Debris) if work meets the

275 of 763


--- page 276 ---
following criteria:

Work will be performed at fourteen (14) day intervals. Call-outs will be
responded to within a reasonable time or the STATE's Maintenance Manager
will be notified.

HM2E LANDSCAPING

This provides for watering, fertilizing, removal of shrubs, and control of
weeds in planted areas. It also includes trimming, removal, and spraying of
trees, replacement of plants, shrubs, and trees, and pest control in planted
areas. The following problems are included:

L. Weed Control
2 Pruning/Thinning/Removing/Replacing
35 Irrigation

HM2G PUBLIC FACILITIES

This provides for work to provide a clean and attractive appearance for park-
and-ride lots. Maintenance of appurtenances such as roadway surfacing,
signs, pavement markings, and electrical installations are to be included in
this program. The following problems are also included:

Repairing Fences
Repairing Bicycle Lockers
Irrigation

Le Maintaining Plants

2 Weed Control

S; Litter Pickup

4. Sweeping

5. Emptying Trash Cans
6. Graffiti

7.

8.

9.

HM4K ELECTRICAL

This includes maintenance work performed on highway electrical facilities
including flashing beacons, traffic signals, traffic-signal systems, safety
lighting and sign lighting. It also includes the electrical energy for these
items.

Timing sequence of traffic signals shall be determined after consultation with
the CITY; however, the decision of the District Director of Transportation
shall be final.

COST SHARING OF ELECTRICAL FACILITIES

The STATE will not pay for the maintenance, installation, repair, servicing,
nor power for ordinary street lighting; however, lighting at intersections,
which qualify as safety lighting under warrants approved/accepted by the
STATE, will be paid for when approved and specifically authorized by the
District Director. Where such lighting has been specifically authorized, the

i

276 of 763


--- page 277 ---
maintenance and operating costs thereof shall be shared between the STATE
and the CITY on a pro rata basis in the same ratio as the number of legs in
the intersection under each jurisdiction bears to the total number of legs.

‘The cost of maintaining traffic signals or other electrically operated traffic
contro! devices now in place or those which may hereafter be installed at the
intersection of any STATE highway route and any CITY street/road shall be
shared between the STATE and the CITY on a pro rata basis in the same
ratio as the number of legs in the intersection under each jurisdiction bears to
the total number of legs. The same principle of cost distribution shall apply
to freeway interchanges. The participation ratio shall be based on the ratio
of the number of legs of the respective agencies to the total number of legs
of the intersection.

EMERGENCY OPERATION OF TRAFFIC SIGNALS

Flashing operation shall be considered as the “primary emergency mode of
Operation at all intersections.” Red/Yellow or all red may be used, as
determined by STATE.

Every effort shall be made to restore the intersection to normal Operation as
soon as possible.

EXPENDITURE AUTHORIZATION:

The STATE will reimburse the CITY for actual cost of all routine maintenance
work performed by CITY as delegated under Section H of this Agreement,
but is agreed that during any fiscal year, the maximum expenditure on any
route shall not exceed the amount as shown on Section H of this Agreement,
unless such expenditure is revised by an amended Agreement or otherwise
adjusted or modified as hereinafter provided for.

A new “DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE” sheet (Section H) will be provided
annually by the STATE for the ensuing fiscal year, if necessary, to ensure
equitable annual cost.

The expenditure per route for routine maintenance work as referred to above
may be increased or decreased, redistributed between routes, or additional
expenditures for specific projects may be made, when such adjustment of
expenditures for routine maintenance or such specific work is authorized in
writing by the District Director or his authorized representative.

Additional expenditures or adjustment of expenditures thus authorized shall
apply during the fiscal year designated therein and shall not be deemed to
permanently modify or change the basic maximum expenditure per route as
hereinafter specified. An adjustment of the said maximum expenditure,
either increase or decrease, shall not affect other terms of the Agreement.

277 of 763


--- page 278 ---
EXHIBIT A AMENDMENT NO. 1

Route
No.

a2:

101

Footnot

Effective November 1, 2014

DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE:

The specific maintenance function indicated! below {and on "EXHIBIT A") is hereby
delegated to the CITY. This delegation of maintenance function set forth herein
does not include areas and functions of which the control

with the local authority under the terms of Freeway Agreements and/or Freeway
Maintenance Agreements,

Maximum
Annual
Length Program Authorized
Miles Description of Routing Delegated Expenditure
4.40 El Camino Real from south city limits at 43rd HM2C $ 0.00
Avenue to north city limits at Peninsula Avenue; HM20 40.000.00
a length of 4.40 miles, of which half width trom HM2E "0.00
Barroilhet Avenue to Peninsula Avenue, a length HM4k 12,000.00
of 0.06 mile, lies within tha CITY, Sha
(Footnotes 1, 2, 3)
-_—_
Total Authorized Route 82 $ 52,000.00
/000.
5.17 J. Arthur Younger Freeway from west city limits HM4K $ 4,650.00
near Ralston Polhemus Road Overcrossing to city
limits 2,320 feet west of Foster City Boulevard
Overcrossing, a length of §.17 miles,
ee
Total Authorized Route 92 $ 4,650.00
S.13 Bayshore Freeway from city limits 2,175 feet RM2G $ 0.09
narth of Ralston Avenue Overcrossing to north
city limits 2,100 feet north of Peninsula Avenue
Overcrossing, a length of §.13 miles.
(Footnote 4)
__
Total Authorized Route 101 $ 0,00

(eecereetinnis
TOTAL AUTHORIZED AMOUNT § — 56 650.90

1 Length of street to be cleaned - 16.9 curb-rniles

Zz CITY will maintain, at CITY expense, all portions of the Hillsdale Boulevard structure
across Ef Camino Real above the bridge deck (See Exhibit B),

3 CITY wilt maintain madian landscaping at CITY expense.

4 CITY wilt maintain, at CITY expense, the park-and-ride lot located on the

northbound side of Route 101 at Third Avenue.

6

278 of 763


--- page 279 ---
SUBMISSION OF BILLS:

The CITY will submit bills in a consistent periodic sequence (monthly, quarterly,
semiannually, or annually). Bills for less than $500 shall not be submitted more
than once each quarter. Bills must be submitted promptly following close of
corresponding billing period and should be coded according to the Caltrans HM
Program Code as outlined in this Agreement. Bills submitted for periods prior to the
last fiscal year will be deemed waived and not be honored.

Equipment shall be charged at mutually acceptable rental rates and labor and
material at actual cost. The CITY will be allowed to recover overhead and
administrative costs only to the extent that such charges include applicable
expenses incurred by the CITY in the execution of the work. Said factors and
method shall be subject to approval by the STATE,

Maintenance services provided by contract or on a unit-rate basis with overhead
costs included shall not have these above-mentioned charges added again. An
actual handling charge for processing this type of bill will be allowed the CITY.

Emergency and storm repairs performed by the CITY will be paid for only with prior
approval of the STATE's Maintenance Manager of that specific area. In addition,
the CITY should immediately notify the STATE's Maintenance Manager for the area
of any storm damage or other emergency condition affecting the STATE highway.
The CITY shall maintain, ona generally accepted accounting basis, complete and
accurate records that support all billings. These records shall be made available to
STATE representatives for review during normal business hours for a period of three
(3) years after payment of said billings.

TERM OF AGREEMENT:

This Agreement shall become effective July 1, 1998 and shall remain in full force
and effect until amended or terminated.

This Agreement may be amended or terminated at any time upon mutual consent of

the parties thereto. This Agreement also may be terminated by either party upon
thirty (30) days’ notice to the other parties.

279 of 763


--- page 280 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hands and seals the day and year
first above written.

CITY OF SAN MATEO STATE OF CALIFORNIA
r DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

JAMES VAN LOBEN SELS
Director of Transportation

B .

y:
City Cle GLENN E£. BEHM Date
District Division Chief
Maintenance

Approved as to form and Procedure:

fag € Leen
City Attorney

280 of 763


--- page 281 ---
EXHIBIT A
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting
By CITY for STATE in Accordance with the
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo
AGREEMENT EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1998-Amended #1 2014

ROUTE INTERSECTION EQUIPMENT EQUIVUNIT | NOTES

MILE
82 8.60 Forty- Third Avenue 1SO0W HPS 9404,9406 1.3333

— | aoe | meter | Signals-TA State Maintained 50.0000%
ra2___| 685 _| Thiy-Ninth avenue_2a__['asow aps ____| ssi. | 200 s.e667% [3333 [7
82 |9.01_| Thirty-EighthAvenue | 2A 250WHPS|530,9387_ «| 2.00 ~—=*|:«C6.6667% | 1.3333. ~~ SSStSt~S~S~S
82 9.10 | Thirty-Seventh Avenue 2A 200W HPS 2572,2573 4.00 50.0000% | 2.0000
82

82 9.33 Hillsdale Boulevard 2A 250W HPS 153850, 15384, 163778, | 4.00 100%
15386, 16388, 16389,
2A 100W HPS 16390, 16361, 16362, 6.00 100%
: 2A 2SQW HPS 16364, 16372B, 16386, 1.00 50.0000%
meter | Signals-TA 16376B 50.0000%
82 9.56: | Thirty-First Avenue 2A 17671 50.0000% | 0.5000
2A 250W HPS 2574, 2575, 2576, 2577 4.00 50.0000% | 2.0000

82 Twenty-Eighth Avenue 200W HPS 9363 66.6667% | 0.6667

82 9.85 Twenty-Seventh Avenue 2A 200W HPS 24216, 9385 50.0000% | 2.0000
meter | Signals -TA State Maintained 50.0000% | 0.0000

82 10.02 Twenty-Fifth Avenue 2A 200W HPS 918 1.00 50.0000% | 0.5000

2A 250W HPS 2580, 2581 2.00 50.0000% | 1.0000

Signals - TA State Maintained 00 | 50.0000%

82 10.06 _| Twenty-Fourth Avenue [2a | 20owHps ss [93sa 00 | 6.6667% [osse7 | CS
82 10.13 9351, 9352 [2.00 | 66.6667% [13333 |
82 10.19 | Twenty-SecondAvenue | 2A | 200WHPS___—| 9347, 9348 |2.00 | 66.6667% [13333 |
82 10.30 _| Twenty-First Avenue
82 10.37 | Twentieth Avenue 2A 1SOW HPS 12974 1,00 50.0000% | 0.5000

2A 250W HPS 24218 1.00 50.0000% | 0.5000

meter | Signals-TA State Maintained 50.0000% emf |

82 10.72 Seventeenth Avenue 2A 200W HPS 19076, 19077, 19078 50.0000% | 3.0000
meter | Signals—TA State Maintained 50.0000%

10.76 200W HPS 19024 66.6667% | 0.6667

| 82 10.82 | SixteenthAvenue ————s«| 2A__—s|: 200W HPS 9329, 9330 66.6667% | 1.3333 __e

10.89 200W HPS 9326, 9327 66.6667% | 1.3333 | tC—“‘C;C*s*SC
Page 1 of 3

* See a: ve es 2 +0 Exhibit A “

281 of 763


--- page 282 ---
EXHIBIT A
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting
By CITY for STATE in Accordance with the
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo

Barneson Avenue 2A 250W HPS 2586 3.00 66.6667 2.0000
meter | Signals—TA State Maintained 66.6667
23502 [1.00 | 66.6667 _| 0.6667 Da

L
iy
8
=
o

:

11.01 | Thirteenth Avenue/Madison 23498 1.00 66.6667 0.6667
Avenue 2A 250W HPS 23501 1.00 0.6667
i 00 50.0000 i

Twelfth Avenue/Hobart 2A 400W HPS MS4-21, MS4-22 2
2.00 ;
1.0000
F 2.00 1.3333

11.19 | Tenth Avenue/Seville Way 250W HPS 23490

11.36 Ninth Avenue 2A 250W HPS 2589, 2590 0 66.6667 ‘
meter | Signals—TA State Maintained

00 66.6667 0.6667

11.51 10.6667
82 11.59 Fifth Avenue 2A 200W HPS(2) 2591, 2594 50.0000 2.0000
&137LED (2) all
meter | Signals-TA State Maintained 50.0000
82 11.65 Fourth Avenue 2A 200W HPS(2) 2595, 2597 50.0000 2.0000
ee ull
meter | Signals—TA State Maintained 50.0000
Third Avenue 200W HPS 2598, 2601 a 50.0000 | 2.0000
meter | Signals—TA State Maintained 50.0000
Arroyo Court 250W HPS [9300 00 50.0000 [osooo | Cd
—, - | meter | Signals—TA State Maintained 66.6667
Crystal Springs Road 250W HPS 2604, MS4-10 2.00 66.6667 1.3333
a | meter | Signals —TA State Maintained 66.6667

ae

50.0000 1.0000
50.0000

66.6667 0.6667

Baldwin Avenue/Baywood 2A 250W HPS 2606, 2607 e
Avenue meter | Signals—TA State Maintained

Saint Matthews Avenue 400W MV 9292

Tilton Avenue/E] Cerrito 2A 250W HPS 2608, 2609 2.00
meter | Signals—TA State Maintained

50.0000 1.0000
50.0000

Avenue

400W HPS 9285, 9286 66.6667 __| 1.3333
82 12.32 | East Santa Inez Avenue 200W HPS 9251, 9280 66.6667 1.3333

282 of 763


--- page 283 ---
EXHIBIT A
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting
By CITY for STATE in Accordance with the
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo

12.35 200WHPS 9279 66.6667 _| 0.6667

Wi x
82 12.42 West Poplar Avenue 2A 250W HPS 2610, 2611 2.00 66.6667 1.3333
g2__| 1251 | billtopRoad 2a | 2oownPs | 9273,9274 SS~=«*dC20 + 66667 | 1.3338
82 66.6667 _| 0.6667
82 Clark Drive North [2A [20ownes 277s t.00 _| 66.6667 | 0.6667
82 State Street [2a | 2sowHes 279.00 _| 66.6667 | 0.6667
82 289, 9261 | 2.00 | 66.6667

82 Barroilhet Avenue 2A 200W HPS 9258 1.00 66.6667
2A 250W HPS 9259 ~ | 1.00 66.6667
82 12.95 Peninsula Avenue — Park 2A 250W HPS
Avenue 24 400W MV MS4-0, MS4-1, MS4-2
meter | Signals—TA State Maintained
10.43 E/B Route 92 Ramps and A 150W HPS 22059, 22060
250W HPS 22062
State Maintained
A

2
Alameda De Las Pulgas 2
10.56 Alameda De Las Pulgas 2 250W HPS 22057, 22058 2.00 50.0000 1.0000
Overcrossing meter | Signals—TA State Maintained 50.0000

50.0000 1.5000
50.0000
2.00 50.0000 1.0000
1.00 50.0000 0.5000

oo
an
an
an
Sw™N

All SR92 are State
Maintained, except
for 1 double arm pole
in middle of island
which is connected to

10.70 W/B Route 92 Ramps and 2A 250W HPS 22054, 22055 2.00 50.0000 1.00000 City of San Mateo
Alameda De Las Pulgas 2A 200W HPS 22061 1.00 50.0000 0.5000 circuit.
State Maintained
1025 W/B On Ramp from Route 82 2A 200W HPS 22065 3.00 100.000 3.0000

State Maintained

283 of 763


--- page 284 ---
Amendment #2 to Exhibit “A”
Maintenance Agreement between
Caltrans and the City of Sgn Mateo

Effective: -2Q[- lé

BASIS OF COST DISTRIBUTION
State-Owned and Maintained

BASIS OF COST DISTRIBUTION
State-Owned and Maintained

Billed by the State
RouteandPM | Location __| TypeofFacility [_____—_—Cost Distribution —*d|
PT State CITY
Rte 82, PM 8.95 | W. 39th Avenue | PHBs and 66.7 33.3
Safety Lights
Rte 82, 224 Avenue PHBs and 66.7 33.3
PM10.19 Safety Lights

284 of 763


--- page 285 ---
@ LIGIHXS

— eon Re Teer nerte scene | rer | || Parmie rere:

een

tt Sica SSS SS
pet Specereste ss errr

amaacrresresrree

erences eee res arent

CAMING
Area maintained by CITY

Fd.

JW 1SOd 31N0¥ ALNNOD LOWLSIO

285 of 763


--- page 286 ---
ORIGINAL 
AMENDMENT NUMBER 3 
AGREEMENT FOR MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS 
IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
This Amendment No. 3 to the Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San 
Mateo is made and entered into by and between the State of California, acting by and through the 
Department of Transportation, hereinafter referred to as "STATE", and the City of San Mateo, 
hereinafter referred to as "CITY". 
WITNESS ETH: 
WHEREAS, an Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of San Mateo, 
hereinafter referred to as "AGREEMENT", as provided for in Section 130 of the Streets and 
Highways Code, was executed on June 15, 1998, and 
WHEREAS, the AGREEMENT by its terms provides that it may be modified or amended at any 
time upon mutual consent of the parties, and 
WHEREAS, the AGREEMENT was amended by the parties on December 15, 2014, with an 
effective date of November 1, 2014 (Amendment 1 ), and 
WHEREAS, the AGREEMENT was further amended by the parties on January 21, 2016 
(Amendment 2), and 
WHEREAS, the parties hereto now desire to that AGREEMENT be further amended. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree to amend AGREEMENT as follows: 
1. The attached EXHIBIT A hereby replaces the existing EXHIBIT A as modified by 
Amendment 2 in its entirety. 
2. The attached EXHIBIT C is hereby incorporated into AGREEMENT; 
3. Page 6 of AGREEMENT (Section H) is hereby replaced with the SECTION H ih its 
entirety. 
4. This Amendment No. 3 to AGREEMENT shall supersede all previously approved 
Amendments. 
5. This Amendment No. 3 to AGREEMENT shall become effective on July 17, 2017. In 
all other respects, AGREEMENT shall remain in full force and effect until amended 
or terminate 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF 
TRANSPORTATION 
MALCOLM DOUGHERTY 
Director of Transportation 
eputy District Director, Maintenance 
286 of 763

--- page 287 ---
•: .... 
AGREEMENT FOR MAINTENANCE OF STATE HIGHWAYS 
IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this~ day of june 
1 
19...2.!L._, by ahd between the State of California, acting by and. through the 
)· 
Department of Tran.sportatio.n, hereinafter referred to as "STATE/ and the CitY of 
San Mateo, ·hereina.fter referred to as ''CITY." 
WITNl:SSETH: 
A. 
RECITALS: 
The Parties desire to provide for t~e CITY ~o perform particular maintenance 
functions oh .the State hlghway(s) within the CITY as provided in Section 
1 $0 of the Strel:lt.s and Highways Code, 
B. 
AGREEMENT,: 
This Agreement shan supersede any previous AGREEMENT FOR 
MAINTENANCE OF STATE.HIGHWAYS IN THE PITY bf SAN MArEo and/or 
Amendments thereto with the CITY. 
· 
In consideration of the mutuaJ covenants and promises herein contained, it is 
agreed: 
· 
The CITY will perform such maintenance work eis ls i,peclfically 
delegated to it, on the State highway routes or portions thereof all as 
hereinafter described under Section H hereof or as said Sectlon may be 
subsequently modifiep with th.e conseht of the parties hereto acting by 
and through their authorized repre::;entative. 
C. 
MAINTENANCE DEFINED: 
Maintenance Is defined in Section 27 of the Streets and Highways Code as 
follows: 
· 
Section 27. (a) 
. ,•, 
(.., 
,,·, 
.. (bl 
(c) 
The preservation and keeping of rights of way, and each 
type of roadway, structure, safety convenience or device, 
planting, illumination equipment and other facility, In the 
safe and usable condition to which It has been improved 
or constructedr but does notlnolude reconstruction, or 
other Improvement . 
Operation of special safety'convenlences and devices,. 
and illumlnating e.qulpment. 
The spl!Joial or emergency maintenance or repair 
necessitated b'y accidents or by $forms or other weather 
conditions, slides, settlements or other unusual or 
unexpected damage to a roadway, structure or facility. 
287 of 763

--- page 288 ---
t' 
D. 
DEGREE OF MAINTENANCE: 
The degree or extent of maintenance work to be performed and the 
standards therefor shall be in accordanqe With the provisions of Section 27 
of the Streets and Highways Code, as· set forth in the· current edition of the 
S.tate Maintenance manual (a copy of which has been provided to the CITY), 
or as may be prescribed from time to time by the District Director. "District 
Director/ as used hE:1rein, means the District Director of the Department of 
Transportation assigned to th.e territory in Which the CITY ls located, or his 
authorized representativEl. 
T11e· ST A TE reserves the option to lnspect at random all areas of State 
Highways maint$lhed by the CITY to assµre 9onformance to maintenance 
levels. Failure of the CITY to comply with. the mt'lin.tenan.oe 1.evels would be 
reason to termlnatE:l this agreement as specified under S~ction J "Term of 
Agreement/' However, this random inspection does not preempt the CITY's 
maintenance responsibilities as specified ih this Agreement. 
An encroachment pertrlit will be required for thfrd parties when maintenance 
work is reclelegated. Such redelegated work shall be performed at the same 
levels of serviot;l as spEJcified h~rein arid will !:>e subject to th.e same r~ndom 
Inspection as provided for work perfonned directly by CITY forces. 
The level pf service ()f maintenance In each of th.e programs delegated to the 
CITY has been co,:isic(ere·d in. setting .authorized total and route .dollar 
amounts. The CITY 111ay perform l'l#ditl<>nal Work if desired, but·the STATE 
Will riotre1rriburse the CITYfor arty work in 6XC6$S of authorized dollars. The 
District Direi;;tor may authorize adjustments needed because of inflation or 
changes fn. program ernphasis. 
· 
· 
E. 
LEGAL RELATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Nothing in th.e provisions of this Agreement is intended to create duties or 
obligations tq or rights In third parties riot parties to this contract or affect 
the legal liability of either partY to the cbhtr'act by imposing. any standard of 
care respecting the maintenance of State highways different from the 
standard Of care impo'sed by law. 
It is understood and agreed that neither the STATE nor any officer or 
employee thereof is responsibl~ for any damage or liability occurring by 
reason of anything done or omitted to be done by the CITY under or in 
cohnectio'n with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the CITY 
under this Agreement. It Is understood and agreed that pursuant to 
Government Code Section 895.4 CITY shall defend, indemnify and save 
. harmless the State of California, all officers and employees from all claims, 
suits or actions of every name, kind and description brought for or on 
account of injuries to or death of any person or damage to property resulting 
from anything done or omitted to be done by the CITY under or in connection 
with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to the CITY under this 
Agreement. 
2. 
288 of 763

--- page 289 ---
It is understood and agreed that.neither thl';l CITY nor any officer or employee 
thereof is responsible for any damage or liability oqourring b'y reason of 
anything d<.m~ or omitted to .be done by the ST-ATE under or i.h connection 
with any work, a1,1thority or jurisdictioh delegated to the STATE under this 
Agreement. It is understood and agreed that pursuant to Govemm.ent Code 
Section 895.4, STATE $hall defend,Jnclemnify and savi9 harmless the CITY, 
all officers and employees from all clEJims, suits ora.ctions of every name, 
.kind and description brought for or on account of injuries to or cleat!') of any 
person or .damage to property resulting from ariything do.ne cir omitted to be 
done by the STATE uhoer or in connect,lon with any work, authority or 
· 
Jurisdiction delegat~d to the STATE under this Agreement. 
· 
F. 
MAINTENANCE FUNCTIONS: 
The CITY shall perform only those mi:!lnt.enance functions, delegated, as 
identified, ln Section H uDELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE" of this 
Agreement. 
· 
· 
· · · 
, 
· A brief description of thos.e m.aintenance functions :delegated to the CITY are· 
irwfu.ded in thfs ~action. The functions are identified by the Caltrans HM 
Program Codes. 
HM2C SLOPES/DRAll'JAGENEGETATION 
This provides for cleaning; maintaining, aqd repairing $tructures1 .fences, and 
0th.er appt.irtE;Jtiance.s beJWeeo the roadbed and the ollter highway . 
. . 
right-c;>f-way bound?trY fine •. Jt i3lso includes we.ad and brush contr.oJ by 
chemical, biological or mechanical methpds, trimming and removal of trees 
and pest control. The following problems are included: 
1. Unp~ved $houlder Management 
2. Nonlandscaped Weed Control 
3. Nonlandscaped Tree/Bush/Vegetation 
4. Fence Repair 
The OITY lf{ill act as agent for the $TATE to notify abutting property owners 
of deficiencies In the sidewal.ks 1=1h.d request owners to r'nake the neqessary 
repairs, or, furnish names and adqresses of those owners.· 
HM2D LITTER/DEBRIS 
this provides for rl:lrnoval of litter ai"1d debris from roadway surfaces and 
roadsides. Th(} following problems. are included: 
.. 
. 
1 . 
Debris/Carcass Pickup 
2. 
U.tter pickup 
3. 
Spills of non-toxic substances 
4. 
Sweeping 
· 
Unless CITY itself is negligent, the STATE will, not withstanding the 
provisions of Section E, defend, indemnify and save harmless the CITY 
against claims for this function (HM2D Utter/Debris) if work meets the 
3 
289 of 763

--- page 290 ---
·-
following crheria: 
Work will be performed at fourteen (14) day Intervals. Call-outs will be 
responded to within a reasonable time or the STATE's Maintenance Manager 
will be notified. 
HM2E LANDSCAPING 
1his provides for watering, fertilizi~g, removal of shrubs, and control of 
weeds in plcJnted art:tas. It also inch.id~s trimming, removal, and spraying of 
trees, replacement of plal)ts, shrubs, an.cl tr.ees, and pest control ih planted 
areas. The following problems are incli.1ded: 
· . 
1, 
Weer) Control 
2. 
Prqr'ilng/Thinning/Removing/Replaclng 
3. 
Irrigation 
· 
·· · 
HM2G PUBLIC FACILITIES 
This provid~s for work to provide a clean anc/ a~tractive appearance for park., 
and-ride lots. Mc!intenance Qf appurtenahces such E!r$ roadway surfa~ing, 
signs, pavement mar~ir,gs, and el.ectrical installations are ta be included in 
this program. The. folfowing problems are also included: 
1. 
Maint,iining Piants 
2. 
Weeq Control 
3. 
Litter f'ickup 
4. 
Sweeping 
5. 
Emptying Trash Cans 
6. 
Graffiti 
7. 
Repairing Fences 
. , 
8. 
Repairing Bicycle Lockers 
e.. 
lrri~atiori 
HM4K ELECTRICAL 
This includes maintenance work performed on highway electrical facilities. 
irtcludtng flashing beacons, traffic signals, traffic~signal systems, safety 
lighting and sign lighting. It also includes the electdcal energy for these 
. items. 
' 
Timing seq~ence of traffic signals shall be determined after consultation with 
the CITY; h.owever, the decision of the District Director of Transportation 
shall be final. 
·· 
· 
COST SHARING OF ELECTRICAL FACILITIES 
The STATE will not pay for the maintenance, installation, repair, servicing, 
nor power for ordinary ~meet lighting; however, lighting at intersections, 
which qualify as safety lighting under warrants approved/accepted by thEJ 
ST ATE, will be paid for when approved and specifically authorized by the 
District Director. Where such lighting hE!s been specifically authorized, the 
4 
290 of 763

--- page 291 ---
maintenance and operating costs thereof shall be shared between the STA TE 
and the CITY on a pro rata basis in the same ratio as the numqer of legs in · 
the intersection iJrider each jurlsdict!on bears to the total number of legs. 
The cost of maintaining traffic signals or other electrically operated traffic 
contrdl d.evices nolJY in place or those Which may hereafter be instalied at the 
intersection of aiiy STA TE highway roLJte and any CITY street/road shall be 
shared between the STATE and tf)e CITY_ on a pro rnta basis in the same 
ratio as the number of legs in the intersection \Jhder each Jurisdiction bears to 
the total number of l~gs. The same principle of oost distribution shall apply 
to freeway interqhanges. The participation ratio shall lJe based on the ratio 
of the number. ~f legs of the respective agencies tQ the total number of leigs 
of the intersection. 
EMERGENCY OPERATION OF TRAFFIC s·1GNALS 
Fla~hlng operation sh~II be copsidered J1s the ,;primary emergency mode of 
operation at air intersections." Red/Yellow or all red may be used, as 
determined by STA TE, 
. 
Every effort shall be made to restore the in(ersection to normal operation as· 
soon Ets po~sib!e, 
G. 
EXPENDITURE AUTHORIZATION: 
The STATE wHI reimburse the CITY for actual cost of aU routine maintenance 
work performed by CITY ~s d¢(egated under Sectiori H of this Agreement, 
but .is agreed that during any fi$cii!I year, the maximum experiditure on any 
route l:lha!l not .exceed the amount as slibW.n on Section H of .this Agrel;iment, 
unless 5,Uch expenditure is revised by an amende.d Agreement or otherwise 
adjusted or modified as heri:1inafter provided for. 
A heW "DELEGATION OF MAINT~NANCE;' sheet .(Section H) will be provided 
annually PY the STATE for the ensuing fiscal yeer, If necessary, to ensur~ 
equitable c!nnLJa! cost; 
. 
. 
The expenditure per route for rdµtine n:,aintenance work as referred to above 
.may be increased or decreased, redistributed between routes, or .additional 
expenditures for specific projects may be made, When $Uch adjustment of 
expenditures for routine maintenance or such specific Work is authorized in 
writing by the District Pirector or his authorized representative. 
Ad.clitiona! Ei,Xpenditur~s or adjustment of expenditures thus authorized shall 
apply during the fiscal year designated therein and shall not be deemf;!c:I to 
permanently modify or change the basic maximum expenditure per route as 
hereinafter specified. An adjustment of the said maxiinum expenditure, 
either increase or decrease, shall not affect other terms of the Agreement. 
5 
291 of 763

--- page 292 ---
H. 
DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE: 
See Exhibit A: Delegation of Maintenance 
6 
Amendment No. 3 
Effective: 7-~ 17-,3.0(7· 
292 of 763

--- page 293 ---
I. 
SUBMISSION OF BILLS: 
The CITY will submit bills in a consistent periodic sequence (rnonthly, qvarterly, 
semiannually, or annually). Bills for less than $500 shall not be submitted more 
tha~ once each quarter •. Bius h}ust be submitte-d promptly following close of 
corresponding billing period and should be coded according to the Caltrans HM 
Program Code as outlined fn this Agreement. Bills submitted tor periods prior to the 
fa~t fiscal year win be deemed waived and not l;Je hqnored. 
· 
· 
Equiprnei:lt shall be charged at mutually acceptabietental rat1;1s and labor and 
mater\ai at actual ¢Cist. The CITY wlU be allowed to recover overhf!ad and 
adrnini$trative costs only to the extent tha~ such charges include aµ,plicaple · 
¢'Xpi,mses incurred by the CITY in the execution of the work. Sald factors and 
method shall be subject to approval by the STATE, 
· 
Maintenance services provided by \:Ontract or on~ l!nit,r'ai:e basi$ with·oVerhead 
costs included shall not hay~ these above-mentioned charges added again. An . 
actual handling char,ge for processing this type of bill.will be c.illowed the CITY, 
Emergency and storm repair~ performed by the CITY will pe paid for only with prior 
a'pproval of the STATE's Maint13nance Manager of i:hat sp$cjfic area'. In addition, 
the CITY should ifr)madiafoly !i<>tify the STATE's Maintenanq¢ Manager for the area 
of any storm damage or other emerg$1ioY condition affecting the ST ATE highway. 
The ClTY shall maintain; on a generally accepted accounting basis, comple'te and 
accurate records that support all billings, These records shali be made available to 
St A 1:E representatives for r(:lvjevv c!uring normal business hours for a period of three 
(3) year.s after payment ofsaid blUings. 
J. 
TERM OF AGREEMENT: 
This Agreement shall become effective July 1, 1998 and shall remain in full force 
and effect until amended orterrnini)ted. 
· 
· 
This Agreement may be am~nded or terminated at any time upon mutual consent of 
the parties the.reto. This Agr\:lement also may be terminated by either party upon 
thirty' (30) days' notice to the other parties. 
· 
7 
293 of 763

--- page 294 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hands and seals the day and year 
first above written. 
· 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
ApprovC1d as to forrn and Procedure: 
·1~r.6 ~~ 
.. 
City AMrney 
8 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA. 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
JAMES VAN LOBEN SELS 
Direct.or of Transportation 
By: 
~ 
~ GJt,y-b/,z~j 
GLENN E. BEHM 
Date 
District Division Chief 
Maintenance 
294 of 763

--- page 295 ---
Amendment No. 3 
Effective: 7~17--~017 
EXHIBIT A 
H. 
DELEGATION OF MAINTENANCE: 
The specific maintenance function indicated below {and on "EXHIBIT A") is hereby delegated to 
the CITY. This delegation of maintenance function set forth herein does not include areas and 
functions of which the control and maintenance rest with the local authority under the terms of 
Freeway Agreements and/or Freeway Maintenance Agreements. 
Maximum 
Annual 
Route 
Length 
Program 
Authorized 
No. 
Miles 
Description of Routing 
Delegation 
Expenditure 
82 
4.40 
El Camino Real from south city limits at 43rd Avenue to north city limits 
HM2C 
$0.00 
92 
5.17 
101 
5.13 
at Peninsula Avenue; a length of 4.40 miles, of which half width from 
HM2D 
40,000.00 
Barriolhet to Peninsula, a length of 0.06 mile, lies within the CITY. 
HM2E 
0.00 
(Footnotes 1, 2, 3, 5) 
J. Arthur Younger Freeway from west city limits near Ralston Polhemus 
Road Overcrossing to city limits 2,320 feet west of Foster City 
Boulevard Overcrossing, a length o_f 5.17 miles. 
Bayshore Freeway from city limits 2,175 feet north of Ralston Avenue 
Overcrossing to north city limits 2,100 feet north of Peninsula Avenue 
Overcrossing, a length of 5.13 miles. 
(Footnote 4) 
HM4K 
12,000.00 
Total 
$52,000.00 
Authorized 
Route 82 
HM2C 
HM2E 
HM4K 
$0.00 
0.00 
4,650.00 
Total 
$4,650.00 
Authorized 
Route 92 
HM2G 
$0.00 
'"'~µµµ•-•--•"-~µM',,-m-,-
Total 
$0.00 
Authorized 
· Route 101 
TOTAL AUTHORIZED AMOUNT 
$56,650.00 
Footnotes: 
1. 
Length of street to be cleaned - 16.9 curb-miles 
2. 
CITY will maintain, at CITY expense, all portions of the Hillsdale Boulevard structure across El Camino Real above 
the bridge deck (Exhibit B). 
3. 
CITY will maintain median landscaping at CITY expense. 
4. 
CITY will maintain, at CITY expense, the park-and-ride lot located on the northbound side of Route 101 at Third 
Avenue. 
5. 
CITY will maintain, at CITY expense, portions of El Camino Real related to the 25th Avenue Grade Separation Project 
as described and highlighted in Exhibit C. 
Page 1 of 4 
295 of 763

--- page 296 ---
EXHIBIT A: Delegation of Maintenance 
Maintenance and Operation ofTraffic Signals and Intersection Lighting 
ROUTE 
POST-MILE INTERSECTION 
82 
8.6 
Forty- Third Avenue 
82 
8.95 
Thirty-Ninth Avenue 
82 
9.01 
Thirty-Eighth Avenue 
82 
9.1 
Thirty-Seventh Avenue 
82 
9.16 
Thirty-Sixth Avenue 
82 
9.33 
Hillsdale Boulevard 
82 
9.56 
Thirty-First Avenue 
82 
9.77 
Twenty-Eighth Avenue 
82 
9.85 
Twenty-Seventh Avenue 
82 
10.02 
Twenty-Fifth Avenue 
82 
10.06 
Twenty-Fourth Avenue 
82 
10.13 
Twenty-Third Avenue 
82 
10.19 
Twenty-Second Avenue 
82 
10.3 
Twenty-First Avenue 
82 
10.37 
Twentieth Avenue 
82 
10.72 
Seventeenth Avenue 
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways 
in the City of San Mateo 
RATE 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
meter 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
meter 
EQUIPMENT 
INT OR POLE NO 
UNITS 
150W HPS 
9404,9406 
2.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
150W HPS 
531,689 
2.00 
& PHBs 
250W HP5 
530, 9387 
2.00 
200WHPS 
2572, 2573 
4.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
137 LED 
9380 
4.00 
250W HPS 
15385D, 15384, 16377B, 
4.00 
15386, 16388,16389, 
100W HPS 
16390, 16361, 16362, 
6.00 
250W HPS 
16364, 163728, 16386, 
1.00 
Signals -TA 
16376B 
200W HPS 
17671 
1.00 
250W HPS 
2574,2575,2576,2577 
4.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
200W HPS 
9363 
1.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
200W HPS 
24216,9385 
4.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
200W HPS 
918 
1.00 
250W HP.$ 
2580, 2581 
2.00 
Signals -TA 
State Maintained 
200WHPS 
9354 
1.00 
200WHPS 
9351,9352 
2.00 
200WHPS 
9347,9348 
2.00 
& PHBs 
150WHPS 
9344 
1.00 
150WHPS 
12974 
1.00 
250W HPS 
24218 
1.00 
Signals -TA 
State Maintained 
200W HPS 
19076, 19077, 19078 
6.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
Page 2 of 4 
% STATE 
EQUIV UNITS 
NOTES 
66.67% 
1.3333 
50.00% 
66.67% 
1.3333 
66.67% 
1.3333 
50.00% 
2.0000 
50.00% 
66.67% 
2.6667 
100.00% 
4.0000 
100.00% 
6.0000 
50.00% 
0.5000 
50.00% 
50.00% 
0.5000 
50.00% 
2.0000 
50.00% 
66.67% 
0.6667 
50.00% 
50.00% 
2.0000 
50.00% 
0.0000 
50.00% 
0.5000 
50.00% 
1.0000 
50.00% 
66.67% 
0.6667 
66.67%. 
1.3333 
66.67% 
1.3333 
66.67% 
0.6667 
50.00% 
0.5000 
50.00% 
0.5000 
50.00% 
50.00% 
3.0000 
50.00% 
Amendment No. 3 
Effective 7 •# / '7 
2017 
296 of 763

--- page 297 ---
EXHIBIT A: Delegation of Maintenance 
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting 
ROUTE 
POST-MILE INTERSECTION 
82 
10.76 
Borel Avenue 
82 
10.82 
Sixteenth Avenue 
82 
10.89 
Fifteenth Avenue 
82 
10.93 
Barneson Avenue 
82 
10.95 
Fourteenth Avenue 
82 
11.01 
Thirteenth Avenue/Madison 
Avenue 
82 
11.07 
Twelfth Avenue/Hobart 
Avenue 
82 
11.13 
Eleventh Avenue/Avila Road 
82 
11.19 
Tenth Avenue/Seville Way 
82 
11.28 
Hayward Avenue/Aragon Blvd. 
82 
11.36 
Ninth Avenue 
82 
11.51 
Mission Drive 
82 
11.59 
Fifth Avenue 
82 
11.65 
Fourth Avenue 
82 
11.71 
Third Avenue 
82 
11.74 
Arroyo Court 
82 
11.78 
Second Avenue 
82 
11.84 
Crystal Springs Road 
82 
11.92 
Baldwin Avenue/Baywood 
Avenue 
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways 
in the City of San Mateo 
RATE 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
2A 
I 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
meter 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
meter 
2A 
meter 
EQUIPMENT 
INT OR POLE NO 
UNITS 
200WHPS 
19024 
1.00 
200W HPS 
9329,9330 
2.00 
200W HPS 
9326, 9327 
2.00 
250W HPS. 
2586 
3.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
250W HPS 
23502 
1.00 
250W HPS 
· 23498 
1.00 
250W HPS 
23501 
1.00 
400W HPS 
MS4-21, MS4-22 
2.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
250W HPS 
23492,23494 
2.00 
2SOWHPS 
23490 
2.00 
250W HPS 
9312, 9313 
2.00 
250W HPS 
2589,2590 
-
2.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
250W HPS 
15342 
1.00 
200W HPS(2) 
2591, 2594 
4.00 
&137LED (2) 
· Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
200W HPS(2) 
2595, 2597 
4.00 
&137LED (2) 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
200W HPS 
2598,2601 
4.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
250W HPS 
9300 
1.00 
250W HPS 
24219,2603 
2.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
250W HPS 
2604, MS4-10 
2.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
250W HPS 
2606,2607 
2.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
Page 3 of 4 
% STATE 
EQUIV UNITS 
NOTES 
66.67% 
0.6667 
66.67% 
1.3333 
66.67% 
1.3333 
66.67% 
2.0000 
66.67% 
66.67% 
0.6667 
66.67% 
0.6667 
66.67% 
0.6667 
50.00% 
1.0000 
50.00% 
50.00% 
1.0000 
·so.00% 
1.0000 
50.00% 
1.0000 
66.67% 
1.3333 
· 66.67% 
0.6667 
50.00% 
2.0000 
50.00% 
50.00% 
2.0000 
50.00% 
50.00% 
2.0000 
50.00% 
50.00% 
0.5000 
66.67% 
1.3333 
66.67% 
66.67% 
1.3333 
66.67% 
50.00% 
1.0000 
50.00% 
Effective 
Amendment No. 3 
'7·-11 . 2017 
297 of 763

--- page 298 ---
EXHIBIT A: Delegation of Maintenance 
Maintenance and Operation of Traffic Signals and Intersection Lighting 
ROUTE 
POST-MILE INTERSECTION 
82 
11.98 
Saint Matthews Avenue 
82 
12.07 
Tilton Avenue/El Cerrito 
Avenue 
82 
12.2 
Monte Oiablo Avenue 
82 
12.32 
East Santa Inez Avenue 
82 
12.35 
West Santa Inez Avenue 
82 
12.42 
West Poplar Avenue 
82 
12.51 
Hilltop Road 
82 
12;64 
Clark Drive South 
82 
12.72 
Clark Drive North 
82 
12.8 
State Street 
82 
12.86 
Warren Road 
82 
12.9 
Barrollhet Avenue 
82 
12.95 
Peninsula Avenue - Park 
Avenue 
92 
10.43 
E/B Route 92 Ramps and 
Alameda De Las Pulgas 
92 
10.56 
Alameda De Las Pulgas 
Overcrossing 
92 
10.7 
W/B Route 92 Ramps and 
Alameda De Las Pulgas 
92 
11.25 
W/B On Ramp from Route 82 
92 
11.53 
W/B Route 92 Ramps at 
Co near Drive to S. Delaware 
Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways 
in the City of San Mateo 
RATE 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
2A 
meter 
2A 
2A 
2A 
2A 
meter 
EQUIPMENT 
INT OR POLE NO 
UNITS 
400WMV 
9292 
1.00 
250W HPS 
2608, 2609 
2.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
400W HPS 
9285,9286 
2.00 
200W HPS 
9251, 9280 
2.00 
200WHPS 
9279 
1.00 
250W HPS 
2610, 2611 
2.00 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
200W HPS 
9273,9274 
2.00 
200W HPS 
9268 
1.00 
200W HPS 
277 
1.00 
250W HPS 
279 
1.00 
250W HPS 
289,9261 
2.00 
200W HPS 
9258 
1.00 
250W HPS 
9259 
1.00 
250W HPS 
16657 
1.00 
400WMV 
MS4-0, MS4-1, MS4-2 
3.00 
Signals -TA 
State Maintained 
ISOW HPS 
22059,22060 
2.00 
250W HPS 
22062 
1.00 
State Maintained 
250W HPS 
22057, 22058 
2.00 
Signals -TA 
State Maintained 
250W HPS 
22054,22055 
2.00 
200W HPS 
22061 
1.00 
State Maintained 
200W HPS 
22065 
3.00 
State Maintained 
200W HPS 
11391, 11431, 11451 
3 
Signals-TA 
State Maintained 
Page 4 of 4 
% STATE 
EQUIV UNITS 
NOTES 
66.67% 
0.6667 
50.00% 
1.0000 
50.00% 
66.67% 
1.3333 
66.67% 
1.3333 
66.67% 
0.6667 
66.67% 
1.3333 
50.00% 
66.67% 
1.3333 
66.67% 
0.6667 
66.67% 
0.6667 
66.67% 
0.6667 
66.67% 
1.3333 
66.67% 
0.6667 
66.67% 
0.6667 
50.00% 
0.5000 
50.00% 
1.5000 
50.00% 
0.0000 
50.00% 
1.0000 
50.00% 
0.5000 
50.00% 
1.0000 
50.00% 
0.0000 
50.00% 
1.0000 
50.00% 
0.5000 
100.00% 
3.0000 
25.00% 
0.7500 
25.00% 
Effective 
Amendment No. 3 
7-/7 
2017 
298 of 763

--- page 299 ---
~ 
:, "' 
0 
[Q 
a: 
El 
CA MIN 0 
.. 
Area maintained. by CITY l:·:·>:·:·:·>i:J 
I I I 
! 
! 
i 
I 
I~ 
!.. 
--·--------"----'-....------~--------..... ----'--........ -~---' 
299 of 763

--- page 300 ---
July 26, 2017 
Amendment No. 3 
Effective: 7'-(7 -:J..017 
Exhibit C - Sheet 1 of 3 
Subject: Caltrain 251h Avenue Grade Separation project, 0417-NMC-JPB (04-SM-82-9.35/10.07). 
Maintenance Responsibility of Improvements Within and Adjacent to State Right of Way. 
To whom it may concern: 
The City of San Mateo (CITY) hereby accepts maintenance responsibility of the improvements 
constructed under the 251h Avenue Grade Separation project (0417-NMC-JPB). The CITY accepts 
maintenance responsibility, including removal of debris and graffiti, for sidewalks, crosswall<s, and median 
islands for areas within and adjacent to the Improvements within State right of way. See attached exhibit 
highlighting the areas identified in this maintenance narrative. 
~t1l'\<~ 
Brad Underwood 
Director of Public Works 
City of San Mateo 
Acknowledged by: 
Deputy District Director 
ainlenance 
Department of Transponation 
_ _J_~-"+J ) ............ 
, 1_ 
Date 
~µ11 
Da.e 
300 of 763

--- page 301 ---
,-.. 
0 
N 
"' 
C , , 
i2 
~ 
13 
::, 
0 
0 
0 
(.) 
' : 
SrDEWALK, CROSSWALK und MEDIAN: 
Maintenance ResponstbUity for 
improvements within State right of way 
l 
........... J 
i 
.......... _j.J.: . 
'
'·.' •. 
HI 
J. 
t- ;/ 
"ECR" 101+34["]] 
"ECR" '·101 +84 
... REMOVE ... EXIST STRIPI_NG .... ,tEN_D ..... REMOVE EXIST, _STRIPING .. 
REMOVE TYPE lll(L) ARROW 
"ECR" 102+24 
END BAY TAPER 
I 
11 
i 
l1 
i; 
II 
u I:!I' 
iJ ... 
"ECR" 1 02 +99]!}/) 
i ! 
L 
END REMOVE EXIST STRIPING 
--1__ ____ END DET 29 
CONFORM TO EXIST 
· ·····"ECR" 1 03+ 12· 
END REMOVE EXIST STRIPING 
END DET 29 
CONFORM TO EXIST 
104+00 
---+--------+----
Exhibit C - Sheet 2 of 3 
u 
r,, ) i 
"28TH" 200+ 12.00 
"ECR" 104+35.50 
~\<( I 
105+00 
- ~s;:,Ntr-- - --t-- - --- - -t- -
l -· ---r,-ez Tf" I 
~E _.? .. ETAIL A 
.. 
.. 
cl ' 
. ~ 
a ... 
_____ 
_; __ , ___ _ 
/ 
lgg .. . 
. ..,j ............ . 
st + 
<.O 
0 
u 
en 
"ECR" 100+89 
() 
EL CAMINO REAL 
11' 
L _ J _) _ _J 
EL CAMINO REAL 
\ 
\ 
)-~ 
// 
, 
i 
J 
! 
............ ~---·"'"" .~-·"" I 
BEG REMOVE EXIST STRIPl~IG 
BEG DET 29 
CONFORM TO EXIST 
... 
,,I_ ···----····· 
"ECR" -·1 00+98 
.......... BEG REMOVE EXIST 
BEG DET 29 
...... CONFORM TO EXIST 
"ECR" 101+48 
BEG BAY TAPER 
11' 
11· 
"ECR" 102+38 
END BAY TAPER 
"ECR" 102+38 
BEG DET 38 
!f 
CURVE NO. 
DESCRIPTION 
STATION 
TANGENT 
V mph 
\ 
BC 
Pl 
EC 
12" 
REMOVE EXIST 
MEDIA~! NOSE 
" 
i SAWCUT 
4" AC OVER 
15" CLASS 2 AB 
1 06+42.88 2024575.65 6039161.50 
2024346.26 
6039338.93 
0'.38'12'' 9000.00' 3'41 '28" 
112+22.68 20241.28.76 
6039530._75 
WARNING 
"ECR" 104+64.46 
20.48' RT 
BC 
MEDIAN NOSE DETAIL 
SCALE: 1 "=5' -0" 
579.81 
290.00' 
DESIGNED 
C. O'GARA 
DRAWN 
1---+----+--t--+---t--------------t--+---+--+--+--1---------------l C. O'GARA 
t--1---t---t--+-+---------------1--+---+-+----'1----1---------------1 M.ECSH1PPEN 
t--J---J--t--t--+--------------1---+----+-+--1'---I--------------J IN CHARGE 
L. RIMBACH 
0 
120916 
ISSUED FOR BID 
REV 
DATE 
BY 
SUB 
APP 
OESCRIPT!ON 
REV 
DATE 
BY 
SUB 
APP 
DESCRIPTION 
DATE 
12092016 
30 
11· 
11' 
' 
() 
l .~. 
... \.. 
. ............. --.................. -,../r -.. ,., 
................... _,J;:. 
____ ....... 
··---~~I~" 
'\ . 
BRICK PAVING, 
SEE CITY STANDARD 
A1-8 
_LOG 
'<:··-·--··t··········· 
~=i ······--·· 
Ci / / 
, ' 
i ! 
i {> 
/ 
; 
5.33' 
6.0' 
PEDESTRIAN 
REFUGE 
4"' AC 
0 
C, 
~~~-~~RRINGBO~~ PAVERS, 
~\. ~ 
SEE DETAIL ffi_ 
() 
!ry' 
~ 
() 
''/ 
! i 
I I _l 
f i 
PAVING 
4" CLASS 2 AB 
15" 
2 AB 
SECTION 
SCALE: NTS 
··~· 
GRAPHIC SCALE 
CAOO FILE NAME 
DEPUlY OlRECTOR 
S. CHAO 
PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD t1ac235 
100 Pringle Avenue 
Suite 400 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 
925-97 4-2500 
PROJECT MANAGEMENT 
R. BOLON 
SAN MATEO 25TH AVENUE 
GRADE SEPARATION 
SCALE 
H 1"=20' 
CONTRACT NO 
CAOD DATE 
04202017 
MILEPOST 
STRUCTURES 
C. CHEN 
17-J-C-048 19.0-20.3 
1250 San Carias Avenue 
San Carlos, CA 94070 
TRACK/CML 
S. CHAO 
EL CAMINO REAL 
AND 28TH AVENUE 
LAYOUT AND STRIPING 
OWG NO 
REV 
PAGE NO 
C235 
301 of 763

--- page 302 ---
" 
0 
N 
ai 
C 
" 
, 
I 
~ 
:, 
0 
0 
u 
(.} 
SIDEWALK, CROSSWALK and MEDIAN: 
Maintenance Responsibility for 
improvements within State right of way 
(1QQ) 112+00 
. ---···- -1--... _ -~-.... -. 
EXISTING MEDIAN 
"ECR" 112+63.56 
... 23.62' RT 
BEG REMOVE EXIST 
....... _BEG A1 -8 CURB 
CURB ...... 
G8-22(CA) 
--· --- - +--:-- -
114+00 
- --""I=- -
"ECR" 113+59 
BEG DET 38 
'tl 
!: 
\\ 
:\ 
ll 
'i\ 
l: 
" 
" 
p ...... ·-· ........................ --
ECR 
114+27 .05 ... ·cm::--' 
............................ -.................. - ..... - .... , .. - ...... - ...... -, ................................ --,~'t: 
6.00' RT 
REMOVE EXIST 
END A1 -8 CURB 
END DET 25A 
MATCH EXIST 
11' 
EL CAMINO REAL 
, 
S41'24'41.01"E, 477.31' 115+00 
11 
- -t- -
"ECR" 
- __ 
.... _ .. ··r- __ 
.. _ 
......... :... -----·=1---····=· 
"ECR" 114+34 
END DET38 
MATCH EXIST 
11' 
11' 
10' 
11' 
·-, ....... _ ......... _ ... , --BEG DET 25A 
........ _MATCH EXIST 
4" AC OVER 
11' 
112+68.56' .. 
( 23.62' RT 
--~-g 
15" CLASS 2 AB 
DESIGNED 
C. O'GARA 
DRAWN 
1--1----1---1---11---+------------+---1----+--+-+--l--------------1 C. O'GARA 
CHECKED 
1--+----+---+--,1---+-------------+----1-----1--+--+----<------------1---1 M. SHIPPEN 
---t----+--+---11---1--------------1--+----i--l---t--+--------------l IN CHARGE 
0 
120916 
ISSUED FOR BID 
REV 
DATE 
BY 
SUS 
APP 
DESCRIPTION 
REV 
DATE 
BY 
SUB I APP 
DESCRIPTION 
L. RIMBACH 
DATE 
12092016 
11' 
100 Pringle Avenue 
Suite 400 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 
925-97 4-2500 
1250 San Carlos Avenue 
San Carlos, CA 94070 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR 
S. CHAO 
() 
PROJECT MANAGEMEW 
C. CHEN 
TRACK/CIV1L 
S. CHAO 
Exhibit C - Sheet 3 of 3 
\ 
EL CAMINO REAL 
1-
20· 
0 
20' 
1...----
GRAPHIC SCALE 
CAOO FILE NAME 
PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD tfaC236 
SAN MATEO 25TH AVENUE 
GRADE SEPARATION 
SCALE 
1"=20' 
CONTRACT NO 
40' 
' 
GADD DATE 
04202017 
MILEPOST 
17-J-C-048 19.0-20.3 
EL CAMINO REAL AND 31 ST AVENUE 
LAYOUT AND STRIPING 
DWG NO 
C236 
REV 
PAGE NO 
302 of 763

--- page 303 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  20
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4683
File ID: 23-7525
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Fleet Maintenance Services – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 5 to extend the agreement with First Vehicles Services, Inc. for year four (4) of five (5) optional 
one-year extensions for fleet maintenance services in the amount of $898,343 for a new agreement total of 
$6,963,517.81; include $200,000 for additional compensation for services that exceed the base level established in the 
agreement; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $100,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Facilities and Fleet Services Division of Public Works contracts with First Vehicle Services (FVS) to perform fleet 
maintenance and repairs for the City of San Mateo’s fleet. In November 2017, a three-year agreement was awarded to FVS 
for fleet maintenance services in a total amount not to exceed $2,176,537.74, with five (5) optional one-year extensions, 
and a contingency reserve was established in the amount of $100,000 per year. The base level services provided under the 
agreement include preventive maintenance and any repairs that cost less than $500 per repair. The City provides FVS 
additional compensation for the cost of repairs greater than $500, repairs of vehicles beyond optimal life span, and repairs 
on damaged vehicles. 
In June 2018, Change Order No. 1 was issued to increase the original contingency in the amount of $150,000 for a new 
contingency amount of $250,000. In May 2019, Amendment No. 1 was issued to increase the annual base level services to 
include a CPI increase of 3% and increased the additional compensation for services that exceed the base level to $200,000 
per year for a new three-year agreement total of $2,699,838.58. 
In June 2020, Amendment No. 2 was issued to increase the annual base level services cost to include a CPI increase of 2.9% 
and extend the agreement for year one (1) of five (5) one-year extensions through June 30, 2021 for a new agreement 
total of $3,699,545.42. In April 2021, Amendment No. 3 was issued to increase the annual base level services cost to 
include a CPI increase of 1.6% and extend the agreement for year two (2) of five (5) one-year extensions through June 30, 
2022 for a new agreement total of $4,712,047.56. 
In April 2022, Change Order No. 2 was issued to add the annual contingency in the amount of $100,000 for non-contract 
fleet expenses for a new agreement total of $4,812.047.56. In June 2022, Amendment No. 4 was issued to increase the 
annual base level services cost to include a CPI increase of 5% and extend the agreement for year (3) of five (5) one-year 
extensions through June 30, 2023 for a new agreement total of $5,865,174.81. 
Agreement expenditures from inception of the contract in November 2017 to date total $4,715,295.85 for base level 
services and $965,969.95 for services exceeding base level for a total spent of $5,681,265.80. 
303 of 763

--- page 304 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Amendment No. 5 will: 
•
Increase the annual, base level services cost to $898,343 for fiscal year 2023-24 to include a CPI increase of 5.3% 
as described in the agreement;
•
Provide $200,000.00 for additional compensation for services that exceed the base level services established in 
the agreement; and  
•
Establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $100,000.
Based on the above, staff recommends for City Council to extend the agreement for year four (4) of five (5) optional one-
year extensions through June 30, 2024 in the amount of $898,343 for base level services, and $200,000 for additional 
compensation for services that exceed the base level for a new agreement total of $6,963,517.81, and establish a 
contingency reserve in the amount of $100,000. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding is provided through budget transfers from each department having vehicles and/or equipment. Costs for fleet 
maintenance have been budgeted within each department’s annual operating budget. No supplemental budget 
appropriation is necessary. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Amendment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment No. 5
STAFF CONTACT
Marie Silva, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
msilva@cityofsanmateo.org
6505227328
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
304 of 763

--- page 305 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 9/17
AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
FIRST VEHICLE SERVICES, INC. FOR
FLEET MAINTENANCE SERVICES
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
First Vehicle Services Inc. (“Contractor”), entered into an Agreement for Fleet Maintenance Services 
(“Agreement”) on November 8, 2017; and
 WHEREAS, City and Contractor wish to amend the Agreement effective July 1, 2023 to extend 
the term of this Agreement, and 
WHEREAS, City and Contractor wish to amend the Agreement to clarify the term and update 
the rates and fees.;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1. Section 4 – Term of the Agreement is amended to read:
           “The amended term of the agreement from October 1, 2017 through June 30, 2023 is 
being extended for one year as the fourth of the five one-year options to extend the Agreement.  
Services to be performed under this Agreement extension shall commence on July 1, 2023 and 
conclude on June 30, 2024, with one, one-year option remaining”
3.  Section 5 – Payment is amended as follows:
The bBase fee is amended from $853,127.25 to $898,343.00 for the term of this one-year 
extension from July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024.
4.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
305 of 763

--- page 306 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and FIRST VEHICLE SERVICES, INC. have executed this 
Agreement Amendment No. 5 on ________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
W.C. Pihl
Senior Vice President
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Name___________________________________
Title____________________________________
306 of 763

--- page 307 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  21
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 87-2314
File ID: 23-7558
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Workers' Compensation Program Third Party Administration – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Award an agreement to LWP Claims Solutions, Inc. for third party administration of the City's self-insured workers' 
compensation program for a three-year term in the amount of $740,907 with an option to extend it for additional two 
years in the amount of $530,194 (for a total amount of $1,271,101), and authorize the Human Resources Director to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City has been self-insured for workers' compensation since 1975. LWP Claims Solutions, Inc. (LWP) has been the City's 
third-party administrator (TPA) since July 1, 2018. Through our broker, ABD Insurance and Financial Services (dba 
Newfront), we issued a Request for Proposals in February 2023. We received responses from two TPAs and one managed 
care provider. Staff reviewed the proposals and chose to interview both TPAs, TriStar, and LWP. Following the interviews, 
staff eliminated TriStar from consideration. Further, staff did not conduct reference checks for LWP Claims Solutions since 
the City has a longstanding relationship with this TPA, and they have proven to be a very reliable partner. LWP is best 
qualified to meet the City's needs in administration of the workers' compensation program. LWP has been in business for 
thirty-three years and has extensive experience with self-insured municipalities.  They believe that that excellence in 
clinical management is the best way to shorten disability duration and speed both return to work and claims closures.  
They focus on customer service and responsiveness, recognizing the value in getting medical treatment authorized quickly 
and keeping close contact with injured employees and City staff.
The proposed staffing model includes a dedicated Senior Claims Examiner that would only work on City of San Mateo 
claims.  It has been proven that this dedicated focus results in more efficient claims handling and responsiveness, 
increased employee satisfaction with service, and lower litigation rates and related costs.
We do not recommend unbundling the managed care services from the agreement with the third-party administrator at 
this time.  The City will continue utilizing the services of managed care provider, Genex, on as needed basis, along with 
other managed care vendors who partner with LWP.
LWP has done an outstanding job for the City in the last five-year period administering our workers’ compensation 
program.  They were successful in reducing the number of open workers’ compensation cases while continuing to provide 
a high level of customer service to City employees.  In addition, LWP is able to provide the same level of service for the 
duration of the new agreement at a lower price.
307 of 763

--- page 308 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
The annual administrative cost for the first three years of the agreement will be $230,000, $236,900, and $244,007, 
respectively.  There is an additional $10,000 annual administration fee, which includes various services, such as bank 
charges, storage fees, on-line 5020 reporting, loss reports, on-line system access, trust accounting, preparation and filing 
of 1099's, preparation of SIP reports, FROI/SROI reporting, medicare reporting, and ebill.  Years four and five, if the City 
opts in, would be $251,327 and $258,867.  Sufficient funds are available in the workers’ compensation budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is exempt from CEQA requirements in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the 
activity in question may have a significant effect on the environment per Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Professional Services Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Yuliya Shukhat, Senior Risk Management Analyst
yshukhat@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7263
308 of 763

--- page 309 ---
Contract for Services
Page 1 of 17
Rev 12/22
AGREEMENT WITH LWP CLAIMS SOLUTIONS
FOR WORKERS’ COMPENSATION THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION SERVICES
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and LWP CLAIMS SOLUTIONS (LWP), a Corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 35 
Miller Avenue, #214, Mill Valley, CA  94941.
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires certain workers’ compensation third party administration services 
hereinafter described.
B.
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these workers’ compensation third 
party administration services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such 
services and CONTRACTOR has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the 
manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES
.
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work.
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement.
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR.
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.
309 of 763

--- page 310 ---
Contract for Services
Page 2 of 17
Rev 12/22
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project.
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work.
SECTION 4 - TERM
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on July 01, 2023 and be 
completed on June 30, 2026, with an option to extend for an additional two-year term at the City’s 
election.
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee pursuant to 
rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice.
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not.
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release.
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement.
310 of 763

--- page 311 ---
Contract for Services
Page 3 of 17
Rev 12/22
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement.
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement.
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY.
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation.
311 of 763

--- page 312 ---
Contract for Services
Page 4 of 17
Rev 12/22
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act.
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
312 of 763

--- page 313 ---
Contract for Services
Page 5 of 17
Rev 12/22
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony.
SECTION 20 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
City of San Mateo
Human Resources Department
Attn: Yuliya Shukhat, Sr. Risk 
Management Analyst
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403
To CONTRACTOR:
LWP Claims Solutions, Inc.
Attn:  Judy Adlam
35 Miller Ave., #214
Mill Valley, CA  94941
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR.
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
313 of 763

--- page 314 ---
Contract for Services
Page 6 of 17
Rev 12/22
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and LWP Claims Solutions have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Teresa Abrahamsohn
Human Resources Director
Date
Judy Adlam
Its Authorized Agent
President & CEO
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Bahareh Abdollahi
Assistant City Attorney
Date
SheriLynn Erickson
Treasurer
Date
Attachments:
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements
314 of 763

--- page 315 ---
Contract for Services
Page 7 of 17
Rev 12/22
EXHIBIT A
SCOPE OF SERVICES
TPA must perform all services required to supervise and administer a self-insured WC program for the 
City of San Mateo, and to act as the City’s representative in matters relating to the City’s obligations under 
the WC laws of the state of California.
•
Investigate, adjust, and settle claims. 
•
Determine eligibility and process both medical and indemnity benefits in a timely manner.
•
Issue timely payment of benefits and notices to employees. 
•
Provide a toll-free telephone number for the City of San Mateo and claimants.
•
Process all claims, including but not limited to investigation, reserving and payment, filing reports, 
negotiating, and settling claims for amounts pre-approved by the City of San Mateo.
•
Manage claims according to the City’s handling guidelines.  The life of an indemnity claim to be 
represented by the graph below.  
•
Set up claims and begin the three-point contact process immediately upon receipt of ANY notice of a 
claim. Examiners are required to make three-point contact on all Indemnity claims within 24 hours of 
receipt, with the first contact always being the employer. If voice-to-voice contact is not achieved, the 
Examiner will continue efforts to reach the parties until accomplished. 
 
Indemnity Claim Timeline
CLAIM REPORTED 
TO LWP
SUPERVISOR 
REVIEWS AND 
ASSIGNS CLAIM
3 POINT CONTACT 
MADE
INITIAL RESERVES 
SET
PLAN OF ACTION 
CREATED
SUPERVISOR 
REVIEW
FIRST CASE 
RESOLUTION 
DIARY
PLAN OF ACTION 
REVIEWED
SUPERVISOR 
REVIEW
SUPERVISOR 
REVIEW
Day 1
Day 1
24 hours
Day 5
Day 14
Day 28
Day 30
Every 45 Days
Day 90
Every 90 Days
315 of 763

--- page 316 ---
Contract for Services
Page 8 of 17
Rev 12/22
Once the three-point contact in completed the claim begins a cycle of processing that is continually 
focused towards closure.  
•
Supervisors will assign the claim and provide initial direction to the Examiner.
•
Supervisors will review the reserves at their 28-day review, and then subsequently at each touch point 
and on each oversight diary. 
•
Supervisors maintain oversight diaries no longer than 90 days apart, and more frequently for files with 
significant issues. 
•
Supervisors approve all reserve changes that meet the client thresholds as well as reviewing the 
reserves in preparation for each client claim review.  
•
The Examiner will enter regular plan of action updates. 
•
For each claim issue, the Examiner will enter a status update as well as a Plan for the Steps necessary to 
resolve that issue.  
•
The Examiner and the supervisor will maintain claims using a diary system.  Each time a diary is worked 
another will be set.  
•
Responded to questions or inquiries by the City of San Mateo or claimants within one business day.
Contact with City of San Mateo, claimant, and medical provider within 24 hours of receipt of a claim for 
all claims:
•
Three-point contact will be made on all indemnity and medical only claims. All contacts are made within 
24 hours of receipt, with the first contact always being the Employer. 
•
In cases where the employee is losing time from work, the Employer, Injured Worker and Treating 
Physician will be contacted no less frequently than every two weeks, although more frequent contact is 
very common. 
Catastrophic Claims:
When LWP receives notice of a catastrophic claim, response includes:
 
 
 
 
Claim 
Reported
Assigned 
to adjuster
3 point 
contact 
completed
Medical and disabilty 
managment / Reserves 
set or reviewed
Plan of action is 
created or updated
Supervisor reviews the 
file
Ongoing contact with 
employer, employee 
and doctor
Interal audit 
continually reviews 
files for compliance
316 of 763

--- page 317 ---
Contract for Services
Page 9 of 17
Rev 12/22
Notification: 
The following steps are taken:
•
Immediately, but no later than one hour after receiving notice of a serious injury (whether by phone, 
fax, email, etc.), the Claims Examiner must alert the local Claims Manager and their direct supervisor.  
If they are unavailable detailed voice messages are to be left both on the office line and cell phone 
lines.
•
The Claims Manager (or the designed manager in the local Claims Manager’s absence) will then 
immediately notify the client and Claims VP via phone or email that a serious claim has occurred.  
Notification should include the name of employer, employee, and a brief description of accident and 
injury.  In this initial communication, advise that a more detailed, factual summary will follow within 
24 hours.
Contacts: 
•
The Examiner will make personal contact with the family members as soon as appropriate. Contacts 
are made face-to-face whenever possible.
Compensability and Subrogation:
•
All evidence is immediately preserved, and that causation and compensability are quickly evaluated 
so that there are no delays in treatment.
Communications with client: 
•
Within 24 hours of notice of loss, LWP will prepare a detailed summary of the factual and medical 
information obtained to date.
•
Within 24 hours LWP will confirm that the Excess Carrier has been placed on notice of loss if the nature 
of injury or anticipated reserve levels warrants notification.
•
Within five days of notice of loss, LWP will work with the client to establish appropriate case reserves.  
•
Schedule call with client for regular updates as to status  
Case Management and Medical Support:
•
For Catastrophic cases, Genex will provide services, including coordination of medical services, family 
communications and development of a Life Care Plan.  
•
The nurse will act as a liaison between the injured employee’s family, the employer, and the claims 
team.
Catastrophic event: 
In the event of catastrophe that causes three or more injuries, additional steps will include:
•
Claims already created as a result of the event are assigned a catastrophic number and are linked for 
reporting purposes.
•
Direct contact with the client will be made to discuss the situation and scope of the event.
•
In case the number of claims require the support of additional Examiners, a team will be assembled 
to provide additional support to the primary Examiner. 
•
Establish reporting timelines with client to evaluate cessation of catastrophic team and reassignment 
of cases to primary Examiner. 
317 of 763

--- page 318 ---
Contract for Services
Page 10 of 17
Rev 12/22
        First Aid Claims:
•
First aid claims are to be flagged with notice to the City of San Mateo and shall be identified as first 
aid on all loss run reports. Bill payments for first aid claims shall be determined by the City of San 
Mateo.
•
Identify First Aid claims on loss reports, in the claims system and on any special reports created. 
•
Make payments on those claims, as appropriate. 
Investigation:
•
Initial investigation will be completed within 14 days from the day of receipt of the claim and if 
needed, further investigation will be completed within 30 days or as soon as all the facts of the case 
can be reasonably gathered.
•
In cases where the City has agreed that a delay is appropriate, LWP will discuss the expected discovery 
process and will meet the 30 day expectation unless there is agreement that further discovery may 
alter the ultimate decision. 
Plan of action:
•
Initial plan of action must be clearly documented in the claim file within 14 days from receipt of the 
claim and updated every 30-60 days.
•
An initial plan of action is established within 14 days of claim set up.  
•
Maintain case resolution diaries at intervals not to exceed 45 days for indemnity claims, and 90 days 
for future medical claims. 
•
Any changes made to the plan of action create an automated progress note on the notepad and are 
available for review by the City either in reports or through online access.
Reserves:
•
Adjusters must document the basis for each reserve calculation.
•
Initial reserves are established within 5 days of claim set up. 
•
Reserves are reviewed at every diary, no less frequently than every 45 days. Any time an inaccuracy 
is detected, a reserve worksheet is completed. The worksheet is reviewed by everyone involved in the 
approval process and is maintained as a permanent part of the electronic claim file. Each worksheet 
contains a detailed breakdown of estimated costs as well as an explanation for the rationale for the 
recommended reserves.
•
Reserve increases of $5,000 or more on any one claim must be communicated to and discussed with 
the City of San Mateo.
Adjuster’s notes:
•
Notes should include but are not limited to comments regarding exposure, disposition plan for claim 
closure, financial transactions, supervisor’s notes, and any other relevant claim information.
•
Examiners are required to fully document all actions and strategies. 
•
Every phone call must be documented. 
•
Plan of action is documented in customized plan of action format. 
318 of 763

--- page 319 ---
Contract for Services
Page 11 of 17
Rev 12/22
•
Examiner documents their review of all issues at each Case Resolution diary, utilizing categorized plan 
of action notepad template.
•
Written status reports will be provided to the City of San Mateo in cases where the incurred value of 
the claim increases by $10,000 or more, and/or any time upon the request of the City of San Mateo.
•
A comprehensive status report will be provided to the City of San Mateo at the time any claim exceeds 
a total incurred value of $50,000.
Compensability of claims:
•
Prior to issuing a denial of compensability of any claim, the adjuster must discuss the case with the 
City of San Mateo for mutual agreement on the denial.
•
TPA must keep the City of San Mateo informed and involved in all accepted cases prior to sending 
acceptance letters to employees.
Correspondence/Communication:
•
All correspondence is emailed to the City immediately upon receipt. 
•
Examiner must notify the City of San Mateo within three (3) days, when any previously closed claim 
is reopened and provide the rationale for reopening.
•
Examiner must notify the City of San Mateo when return to work letters are being sent to the 
claimant, anytime there are changes to the claimant’s work restrictions and at the time of any 
permanent work restrictions.
•
Transitional/modified duty must be documented in the claim file and should include the medical 
diagnosis, work restrictions and estimated duration of disability.
•
Documented follow-up to the treating physician(s) is required no later than every thirty (30) days 
prior to MMI status. Ongoing disability will be documented though ongoing medical reports.
•
Examiner will notify the City of San Mateo of any legal or administrative actions that affect their 
claims including: appeals, pre-notification of depositions, pretrial or workers’ compensation board 
hearing.
Access to the claims and claims data:
•
Provide City of San Mateo access 24 hours a day, seven days a week to electronically view the 
progression of any of their claims and related claim data. The City of San Mateo or its designated 
representative must be authorized to visit the TPA’s processing or storage premises and have access 
to all data, including but not limited to paper documents, electronic documents and any other type 
that elates to payments or non-payments made by the TPA and charged to the City of San Mateo. 
Include in your response any costs associated with this access or any fees charged related to storage, 
copying or transferring any data to the City of San Mateo.
          Approval for all outside case management services:
•
The City of San Mateo will have final approval for all outside case management services utilized, 
including but not limited to defense attorneys, nurse case managers, vocational experts and 
investigative firms.
Pursuit of third-party action subrogation claim:
•
The City of San Mateo must pre-approve the pursuit of any third-party action subrogation claim.
319 of 763

--- page 320 ---
Contract for Services
Page 12 of 17
Rev 12/22
Request for surveillance:
•
Request for surveillance must be discussed with and approved by the City of San Mateo.
Settlement authorization:
•
On all settlements, including 0% PD with future medical, a settlement authorization request must first 
be submitted to the City of San Mateo for their approval.
Workers’ compensation hearings:
•
LWP team members make appearances at the WCAB on occasion. Examiners will attend trials along 
with defense counsel when their presence is likely to affect the outcome. Any appearance made by 
an LWP staff member is included in LWP’s administrative fee. Any pre-approved appearances made 
by defense attorneys are charged to the claim as allocated loss expense.  
Excess carrier notification:
•
Examiner will notify the excess carrier of potential claims as provided by the carrier’s service 
agreement terms.
Recoveries:
•
Monitor and collect all recoveries due the City of San Mateo.
Medical provider bills:
•
Review medical provider bills for appropriateness of fees charged utilizing the California Official 
Medical Fee Schedule.
Claim records and claim files:
•
All claim records and claim files shall be the property of the City of San Mateo. TPA shall be responsible 
for providing claim data to the City of San Mateo upon request for data from the TPA’s administrative 
data system at the administrator’s expense.
Printed workers’ compensation forms:
•
Provide all printed workers’ compensation forms which the City of San Mateo may require, i.e. 
Employers First Report of Injury, medical authorization form, benefit letters, delay/denial letters, etc.
Workers’ compensation claims trust checking account:
•
The City of San Mateo maintains a workers’ compensation claims trust checking account. The TPA 
shall be responsible for payments of benefits from this account.  
Litigation management:
•
The City of San Mateo reserves the right to select counsel.
320 of 763

--- page 321 ---
Contract for Services
Page 13 of 17
Rev 12/22
Defense counsel referrals:
•
Defense counsel referrals need prior approval by the City of San Mateo.
•
Within three (3) business days of referral of the case to defense counsel, direct a letter to the 
attorney outlining the case status and what is needed from a defense standpoint within a specific 
time frame.
Procedures to audit the effectiveness of legal counsel on the outcome of claims:
•
Conduct these reviews semi-annually (every other claim review) and modify the schedule to meet 
the City’s needs. 
Nurse case management:
•
Pre-authorization by the City of San Mateo is required on all nurse case management assignments.
•
Nurse case manager’s action plans and notes will be documented in the claim file, and as 
appropriate NCM’s will participate in claim reviews or when consultation with the NCM is requested 
by the City of San Mateo.
321 of 763

--- page 322 ---
Contract for Services
Page 14 of 17
Rev 12/22
EXHIBIT B
PAYMENT RATES
City of San Mateo LWP Claims Administration: Life of the Contract Claims Administration and 
Managed Care.
*Utilizing LWP’s Managed Care Bundled Services
Flat Fee. Dedicated staffing model. Billed monthly at 1/12th of annual fee.
Annual Claims Fee
Dedicated Adjuster
Year 1
$230,000
Year 2
$236,900
Year 3
$244,007
Optional Year 4
$251,327
Optional Year 5
Services Included in Claims Administration Fee:
Claims Administration
Claim Review Meetings
Swat Team Claim Intake
Designated Account Manager
Litigation Management
Reporting to Excess Reinsurer
Additional Services:
Annual Administration Fee
Bank Charges (one Account)
Storage Fees
On-Line 5020 Reporting
Loss Reports
On-Line System Access
Trust Accounting
Preparation and filing of 1099's
Preparation of SIP reports
FROI/SROI Reporting
Medicare Reporting
Ebill
                                  $258,867
$10,000   
Included
Included
Included
Included
Included
Included
Included
Included
Included
Included
Included
                           
Additional Feeds if Required for Unbundled Services
$5,000 per feed
322 of 763

--- page 323 ---
Contract for Services
Page 15 of 17
Rev 12/22
Pricing guarantee for 18 months. Price subject to increase thereafter with advance notice.
Bill Review
Standard fee schedule reduction: 
$9.00 per bill plus PPO reduction
Inpatient/outpatient hospital or 
surgery center: $500 per bill plus 
PPO reduction
PPO reduction: 24%/Anthem 27%
Bills not subject to fee schedule: 
24% of reduction
TCM
FCM
$102 per hour
 $108 per hour + incidentals
Utilization Review
Nurse Review: $120 flat fee
Clinical Nurse Review: $180 per 
hour
Physician Review: $235 plus nurse 
charge
Pharmacy Review: $385 plus 
nurse charge (Genex)
Medical Provider Network 
Access (LWP Network)
PPO fee for savings below fee 
schedule: 24%
Specialized Network Access       
( LWP Network)
Durable Medical Goods: $5.00 per 
bill
Expedited Diagnostic Testing: 
$5.00 per bill
Physical Therapy Network: $5.00 
per bill
Pharmacy Benefit Network: $5.00 
per bill (Optum)
Other Services
Field Investigation: $88.00 per hour
SIU Related Work: $98.00 per hour
Indexing: $21.00 per claim
Subrogation: 15% of gross 
recovery
Lien Resolution: 15% of reduction
323 of 763

--- page 324 ---
Contract for Services
Page 16 of 17
Rev 12/22
EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease. 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor.
Other Insurance Provisions
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it.
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City.
324 of 763

--- page 325 ---
Contract for Services
Page 17 of 17
Rev 12/22
Waiver of Subrogation
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.  
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.  
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City.
Verification of Coverage
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
325 of 763

--- page 326 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  22
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-6611-
File ID: 23-7568
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Library Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
California State Library Parks Pass Grant – Budget Appropriation
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $44,634 for a grant awarded by the 
California State Library to the San Mateo Public Library to support the State Parks Are For Everyone! program. 
BACKGROUND:
The California State Library Parks Pass program is a partnership between California State Parks and the California State 
Library. The Parks Pass program was launched in 2022 with the intent to make it easier for all Californians to visit State 
Parks and enjoy the benefits of outdoor exploration. Parks passes can be checked out with a valid library card and offer 
free access to over 200 parks, lakes, beaches and monuments in the California State Parks system. In December 2022, the 
California State Library opened a grant opportunity specifically targeting efforts with grant opportunities up to $75,000. 
The San Mateo Public Library's grant application resulted in an award of $44,634, which will be used to provide circulating 
outdoor gear, storywalks in parks, or programming inspired by or focused on State Parks and run through February 2024. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Once appropriated, the grant funds will augment the Library’s General Fund expense accounts for Circulation and 
Technical Services. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This activity is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Marcia Mendonca, Senior Management Analyst
mmendonca@cityofsanmateo.org
6505227805
James Moore, City Librarian
326 of 763

--- page 327 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
jmoore@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7802
327 of 763

--- page 328 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2023)
AUTHORIZING A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION OF $44,634 IN GRANT FUNDS FROM THE 
CALIFORNIA STATE LIBRARY (FISCAL YEAR 2023-24 BUDGET)
WHEREAS, in December 2022, the State Library opened a grant opportunity specifically targeting easier 
access to State Parks efforts with grant opportunities up to $75,000; and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Public Library's grant application resulted in an award of $44,634, which will 
be used to provide circulating outdoor gear and programming inspired by or focused on State Parks and run 
through February 2024; and
WHEREAS, a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount $44,634 of the grant award to the 2023-
2024 Fiscal Year budget is required to finance these efforts; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS that:
1.
This City Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.
A supplemental budget appropriation to the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year Budget is authorized as follows:
a.
$44,634 to augment the Library department General Fund expense accounts for Circulation and 
Technical Services.
328 of 763

--- page 329 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  23
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-6621-
File ID: 23-7572
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Library Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
California Library Literacy Services – Budget Appropriation 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount of $55,092 for a grant awarded by the 
California State Library to the San Mateo Public Library to support the Project Read Literacy Program.
BACKGROUND:
In August 2022, the California State Legislature approved $2.5 million annually for California Library Literacy Services to 
improve existing family literacy activities, programming, and services. The San Mateo Public Library has received a grant of 
$55,283 from the approved funding for fiscal year 2022-23 to strengthen literacy services for low-literate adults and their 
families. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Once appropriated, the donated funds will augment the Library's General Fund expense accounts for Children's and 
Literacy Services.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This activity is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Marcia Mendonca, Senior Management Analyst
mmendonca@cityofsanmateo.org
6505227805
James Moore, City Librarian
jmoore@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7802
329 of 763

--- page 330 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2023)
AUTHORIZING A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION OF $55,092 IN GRANT FUNDS FROM THE 
CALIFORNIA STATE LIBRARY (FISCAL YEAR 2022-23 BUDGET)
WHEREAS, in August 2022, the California State Legislature approved $2.5 million annually for California 
Library Literacy Services to improve existing family literacy activities, programming and services; and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Public Library has received a grant of $55,092 from the approved funding for 
2022-2023 Fiscal Year to strengthen literacy services for low-literate adults and their families; and 
WHEREAS, a supplemental budget appropriation in the amount $55,092 of the grant award to the 2022-
2023 Fiscal Year budget is required to finance these efforts; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS that:
1.
This City Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.
A supplemental budget appropriation to the 2022-2023 Fiscal Year Budget is authorized as follows:
a.
$55,092 to augment the Library department General Fund expense accounts for Children’s and 
Literacy Services. 
330 of 763

--- page 331 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  24
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-7569
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 20, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Minimum Wage Enforcement Services – Notice to Extend Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a notice to extend the agreement with City of San Jose's Office of Equality Assurance for minimum wage 
ordinance enforcement services in the amount of $30,000 and authorize the City Manager to execute the notice in 
substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
In August 2016, the City Council adopted an ordinance to increase its local minimum wage based on the regional 
Consumer Price Index (CPI). In the fall of 2022, City Council amended the minimum wage ordinance to cap the CPI 
increases to 3.5% per year, include a catch-up provision, and round the wage to the nearest nickel. As of January 1, 2023, 
the minimum wage for all employees who perform at least two hours of work per week in San Mateo is $16.75 per hour.
To administer the program, the City contracts with the City of San Jose’s Office of Equality Assurance (OEA) for all 
enforcement efforts on behalf of the City. Much of their work includes answering questions regarding the ordinance, 
conducting complaint intake, investigating employers, calculating back wages owed, calculating the new minimum wage, 
and preparing and sending written notices to violators. 
From 2017 to 2020, the City’s contract with OEA was a pay-per-service fee with a cap of $30,000 per year, meaning the 
City was charged based on the hours spent on enforcement each year. However, in 2020, OEA changed their fees from 
pay-per-service to a flat fee of $15,000 per year, which covers all costs for enforcement. 
The City’s current agreement with San Jose is set to end June 30, 2023, but the City has the option to extend the term to 
June 30, 2025. On February 6, 2023, staff brought forward a draft agreement to extend the term to June 30, 2025, which 
was approved by the City Council. However, since then, the City of San Jose has elected to use a different document to 
serve the same purpose. This report includes the new document, which is the Notice of Option to Extend agreement 
(Attachment 1) for City Council approval to continue City of San Jose’s enforcement services.  Although the Notice of 
Option to Extend amount threshold is within the City Manager’s approval authority, City Council approval is required 
because this is an interagency agreement. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The cost to enforce the local minimum wage ordinance is $15,000 per year for a total of $30,000 over the two-year period 
covered by the agreement. This cost is included in the City Manager’s annual budget allocation.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This notice option to extend the agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
331 of 763

--- page 332 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact 
on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Notice of Option to Extend Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst II
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7277
332 of 763

--- page 333 ---
NOTICE OF EXERCISE OF OPTION TO EXTEND AGREEMENT 
  
AGREEMENT TITLE: 
| AGREEMENT BETWEEN CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE 
DATE: 
CITY OF SAN JOSE FOR MINIMUM WAGE ENFORCEMENT 
SERVICES 
  
City of San Mateo 
CONTRACTOR 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
Name and Address: 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
  
DATE OF OPTION: 
June 30, 2023 
 
 
 
  
(Date the notice is sent must be consistent with the time for exercise set forth in Agreement) 
Pursuant to Section: 
Term of Agreement/Option to Extend: The Agreement referenced above; the City of 
San Mateo (“City”) hereby exercises 
its option to extend the term under the following 
provisions: 
  
  
  
  
[OPTIONNO. 
| 1o0f1 
| 
NEW OPTION TERM 
Begin Date: 
July 1,2023 
End Date: 
June 30,2025 
 
 
 
  
  
| MAXIMUM COMPENSATION for New Option Term: 
| $30,000 
  
Compensation: San Jose will continue to submit annual invoices to City of San 
Mateo for Services performed in the following years. 
City will provide San Jose 
with the address and person to whom San Jose must submit its invoices. 
City will 
pay San Jose at the rates specified in the original agreement 4.1 and 4.2 of this 
section. Option and any future escalations begin each July 1 upon mutual written 
agreement by the Parties. 
  
  
  
  
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
CITY OF SAN JOSE 
a municipal corporation 
a municipal corporation 
By 
By L4 
Name: Drew Corbett 
Name: Christopher Hickey 
Title: City Manager 
Title: Division Manager — Office of Equality Assurance 
 
 
  
Form/File No.: T-44812/2003166 City Attorney Approval Date: March 2023 
City of San Mateo — Notice of Exercise Option Giles#66027 
1
333 of 763

--- page 334 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  25
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-7557
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
San Francisco Peninsula Tourism Marketing District (SFPTMD) Formation – Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution granting consent to the City of Burlingame to form the San Francisco Peninsula Tourism Marketing 
District (SFPTMD) and include the City of San Mateo within the boundaries of the district.
BACKGROUND:
In 2001, the San Mateo County Tourism Business Improvement District (SMCTBID) was formed pursuant to the Parking and 
Business Improvement Area Law of 1989 in the City of Burlingame. The same year, San Mateo City Council adopted 
Resolution 5 (2001) granting consent allowing the SMCTBID to include the City of San Mateo in the SMCTBID boundary. 
The City of Burlingame is the lead jurisdiction for the SMCTBID. As the lead City, Burlingame collects annual assessments 
on behalf of the SMCTBID and facilitates the legal formation of the District under State law. 
The San Mateo County/Silicon Valley Convention and Visitors Bureau dba “The San Francisco Peninsula” (SFP) manages the 
daily activities of the SMCTBID. SFP seeks to modernize SMCTBID by forming a new District called “San Francisco Peninsula 
Tourism Marketing District” (SFPTMD), pursuant to the Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994. 
SFP and lodging business owners decided to pursue formation of the SFPTMD in order to create a revenue source devoted 
to marketing the San Francisco Peninsula area as a tourism, convention, and event destination. The proposed SFPTMD 
benefit district shares the same boundary as the existing SMCTBID. The boundary of the SMCTBID includes the cities of 
Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Pacifica, Redwood City, 
San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, South San Francisco, and the unincorporated areas of San Mateo County. 
If established, the SFPTMD would generate approximately $10,895,479 on an annual basis dedicated to help fund 
marketing and sales promotion for travel and tourism specific to the San Francisco Peninsula area. Currently, the SFP raises 
approximately $2.9 million in assessment revenues annually. 
TOURISM MARKETING DISTRICTS 
Tourism Marketing Districts (TMDs) utilize the efficiencies of private sector operation in the market-based promotion of 
tourism. These special assessment districts allow lodging business owners to organize their efforts to increase tourism. 
Lodging business owners within the TMD fund the TMD, and those funds are used to provide services that are desired by 
and benefit the lodging businesses within the TMD. 
The following are a list of benefits of a TMD: 
•
Assessments cannot be diverted to other government programs; 
•
Promotions are customized to fit the needs of each destination; 
334 of 763

--- page 335 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Districts allow for a wide range of services such as destination marketing, tourism promotion, and sales lead 
generation;
•
Districts are designed, created and governed by those who will pay the assessment;  
•
Districts provide a stable funding source for tourism promotion. 
MANAGEMENT DISTRICT PLAN ASSESSMENT RATE 
The Management District Plan (Attachment 2) includes the proposed boundary of the SFPTMD, a service plan and budget, 
and a proposed means of governance. The proposed SFPTMD will include all lodging businesses located within the 
boundaries of the cities of Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Menlo Park, 
Millbrae, Pacifica, Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, South San Francisco, and the unincorporated area of 
San Mateo County. 
The proposed annual assessment rate is one- and one-half percent (1.5%) of gross short-term sleeping room rental 
revenue for lodging businesses with 5,000 square feet or more of dedicated meeting space, and 0.75% for all other lodging 
businesses within the SFPTMD’s boundaries. Based on the benefit received, assessments will not be collected on stays of 
more than thirty (30) consecutive days; stays provided to airline cockpit and/or cabin crews pursuant to an agreement 
between a hotel and an airline, which is in furtherance of or to facilitate such crews’ performance of their jobs for the 
airline, including layovers between flights; employees of the state or federal government if room charges are paid directly 
by their employing agency and copies of official travel orders are submitted as applicable; and any properly credentialed 
officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express provision of federal law or international 
treaty. 
The proposed SFPTMD will have a five (5) year life, beginning October 1, 2023, or as soon as possible thereafter, and 
ending five (5) years from its start date. The assessment will be implemented beginning October 1, 2023, or as soon as 
possible thereafter. Once per year beginning on the anniversary of SFPTMD formation there is a thirty (30) day period in 
which business owners paying fifty percent (50%) or more of the assessment may protest and begin proceedings to 
terminate the SFPTMD. 
As the lead jurisdiction for the SFPTMD, the City of Burlingame is responsible for collecting the assessments on a monthly 
basis (including any delinquencies, penalties and interest) from each lodging business located in the boundaries of the 
SFPTMD. The City of Burlingame will take all reasonable efforts to collect the assessments from each lodging business. The 
City of Burlingame will be paid a fee equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of assessment collected or a flat fee of 
$60,000, whichever is greater each year, to cover its costs of collection and administration. 
The SFP has already notified lodging businesses in San Mateo of their intent form the SFPTMD. Six of the nine lodging 
businesses in San Mateo wrote petitions in support of the new assessment, benefit district name, and their continued 
participation. On May 15, 2023, the City of Burlingame approved a Resolution of Intent to form the SFPTMD. The City of 
Burlingame is requesting participating cities to adopt the resolution granting consent to include in the SFPTMD by June 30, 
2023.  The City of Burlingame is scheduled to hold the final public hearing on July 5, 2023. Staff recommends adopting the 
resolution granting consent to the City of Burlingame to include the City of San Mateo in the SFPTMD. (Attachment 1)
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this approval. There may be an increase in tax collections, because the SFPTMD 
programs are intended to increase room night sales for assessed lodging businesses within the SFPTMD. The City of 
Burlingame is responsible for the collection of the assessments. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
335 of 763

--- page 336 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 - SFPTMD Management District Plan
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7009
336 of 763

--- page 337 ---
1
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
GRANT CONSENT TO THE CITY OF BURLINGAME TO FORM
THE SAN FRANCISCO PENINSULA TOURISM MARKETING DISTRICT (SFPTMD)
IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
WHEREAS, in 2001, the San Mateo County Tourism Business Improvement District (SMCTBID) was 
formed pursuant to the Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 1989 (89 Law) by City of Burlingame 
Ordinance No. 1648; and 
WHEREAS, in 2001, the City of San Mateo granted consent to the City Burlingame to be included within 
the boundaries of the SMCTBID by San Mateo City Council Resolution No. 5 (2001); and
WHEREAS, the City of Burlingame, San Mateo County/Silicon Valley Convention and Visitors Bureau dba 
The San Francisco Peninsula (SFP), and San Mateo County lodging businesses seek to modernize the SMCTBID by 
forming a new District, the San Francisco Peninsula Tourism Marketing District (SFPTMD), pursuant to the 
Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994; and
WHEREAS, the Property and Business Improvement Law of 1994, Streets and Highways Code § 36600 et 
seq., authorizes the City of Burlingame to establish business improvement districts for the purposes of driving 
increased business sales directly to payors; and
WHEREAS, a portion of the territory proposed to be included in the SFPTMD lies within the boundaries 
of the cities of Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Melo Park, Millbrae, 
Pacifica, Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, South San Francisco and the unincorporated area of 
San Mateo County (the City and County) as shown on the map attached hereto as Exhibit A; and
WHEREAS, all current and future lodging businesses within the boundaries of the proposed SFPTMD will 
benefit directly from improvement activities like marketing and promotional activities which will increase 
demand for room night sales, meetings, and conventions locally; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Burlingame has requested consent to form the SFPTMD in the 
City of San Mateo with adoption of Burlingame City Council Resolution No. 049-2023, dated May 15, 2023.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA HEREBY RESOLVES 
THAT:  
1.
The above recitals are true and correct.
2.
The City of Burlingame is hereby granted consent to include the City of San Mateo in the SFPTMD, 
for the formation of the SFPTMD and future renewals.
3.
The Clerk of the City of San Mateo is hereby directed to transmit a certified copy of this Resolution 
to the Clerk of the City of Burlingame.
4.
This Resolution is effective upon its adoption.
337 of 763

--- page 338 ---
=—, ;
Lens San Matero County Lines

[| City / Town Outside of TMD
| Unincorporated County in the TMD
Cities in the TMD

(9) BELMONT

MN BrisBANE

!) Burtincame
EAST PALO ALTO

[9 Foster city

DO) HALF Moon Bay

DP) MENLO PARK

SO mictersc

SO paciFica

|) REDWoop ciTy

NS san BRUNO

SN san cartos

SN san MaTEO

DI) souTH SAN FRANCISCO

Exhibit A

BOUNDARY MAP

SBOROUGH

SF Peninsula TMD

WOODSIDE

QRTOLA VAL!

338 of 763


--- page 339 ---
SAN FRANCISCO PENINSULA TOURISM 
MARKETING DISTRICT 
MANAGEMENT DISTRICT PLAN 
Prepared pursuant to the Property and Business Improvement District 
Law of 1994, Streets and Highways Code section 36600 et seq. 
January 23, 2023 
2023-2028 
339 of 763

--- page 340 ---
Table of Contents 
 
I. 
OVERVIEW .............................................................................................................................................. 3 
II. 
BACKGROUND ....................................................................................................................................... 5 
III. BOUNDARY ............................................................................................................................................. 6 
IV. ASSESSMENT BUDGET AND SERVICES ............................................................................................ 7 
A. 
ANNUAL SERVICE PLAN ................................................................................................................................... 7 
B. 
ANNUAL BUDGET ............................................................................................................................................ 9 
C. 
CALIFORNIA CONSTITUTIONAL COMPLIANCE .................................................................................................. 9 
D. 
ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................................. 11 
E. 
PENALTIES AND INTEREST ............................................................................................................................. 12 
F. 
TIME AND MANNER FOR COLLECTING ASSESSMENTS .................................................................................... 13 
V. 
GOVERNANCE ..................................................................................................................................... 14 
A. 
OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION ................................................................................................................................. 14 
B. 
BROWN ACT AND CALIFORNIA PUBLIC RECORDS ACT COMPLIANCE ............................................................. 14 
C. 
ANNUAL REPORT ........................................................................................................................................... 14 
APPENDIX 1 – LAW ........................................................................................................................................ 15 
APPENDIX 2 – ASSESSED BUSINESSES ..................................................................................................... 26 
APPENDIX 3 – BENEFITS BY BUSINESS CATEGORY ............................................................................. 31 
APPENDIX 4 – SMG CONSULTING ANALYSIS .......................................................................................... 33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepared by 
Civitas 
 
 
 
(800)999-7781 
www.civitasadvisors.com 
 
340 of 763

--- page 341 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
3 
January 23, 2023 
 
I. 
OVERVIEW 
 
Developed by the San Mateo County/Silicon Valley Convention and Visitors Bureau dba The San 
Francisco Peninsula (SFP) and San Mateo County lodging businesses, the San Francisco Peninsula 
Tourism Marketing District (SFPTMD) is an assessment district proposed to provide specific benefits 
to payors, by funding marketing and sales promotion efforts for assessed businesses.  This approach 
has been used successfully in other destination areas throughout the country to provide the benefit of 
additional room night sales directly to payors.  In 2001, the San Mateo County Tourism Business 
Improvement District (SMCTBID) was formed pursuant to the Parking and Business Improvement 
Area Law of 1989 (89 Law).  This effort seeks to modernize the SMCTBID by disestablishing the 89 
Law District and forming a new District, the SFPTMD, pursuant to the Property and Business 
Improvement District Law of 1994 (94 Law). 
 
Location: 
The SFPTMD includes all lodging businesses, existing and in the future, located within 
the boundaries of the cities of Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster 
City, Half Moon Bay, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Pacifica, Redwood City, San Bruno, San 
Carlos, San Mateo, South San Francisco, and the unincorporated area of San Mateo 
County, as shown on the map in Section III.   
 
Services: 
The SFPTMD is designed to provide specific benefits directly to payors by increasing 
awareness and demand for room night sales, meetings, and conventions.  Sales and 
marketing programs will increase demand for overnight tourism and market payors as 
tourist, meeting and event destinations, thereby increasing demand for room night 
sales, meetings, and conventions.   
 
Budget: 
The total SFPTMD annual assessment budget for the initial year of its five (5) year 
operation is anticipated to be approximately $10,895,479. A similar budget is expected 
to apply to subsequent years, but this budget is expected to fluctuate as room sales do. 
 
Cost: 
The annual assessment rate is one- and one-half percent (1.5%) of gross short-term 
sleeping room rental revenue for lodging businesses with 5,000 square feet or more of 
dedicated meeting space, and 0.75% for all other lodging businesses within the 
SFPTMD’s boundaries. Based on the benefit received, assessments will not be 
collected on stays of more than thirty (30) consecutive days; stays provided to airline 
cockpit and/or cabin crews pursuant to an agreement between a hotel and an airline, 
which is in furtherance of or to facilitate such crews’ performance of their jobs for the 
airline, including layovers between flights; employees of the state or federal 
government if room charges are paid directly by their employing agency and copies of 
official travel orders are submitted as applicable; and any properly credentialed officer 
or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express provision 
of federal law or international treaty. 
 
Collection: 
The City of Burlingame shall be responsible for collecting the assessments on a 
monthly basis (including any delinquencies, penalties and interest) from each lodging 
business located in the boundaries of the SFPTMD. The City shall take all reasonable 
efforts to collect the assessments from each lodging business. 
 
341 of 763

--- page 342 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
4 
January 23, 2023 
Duration: 
The SFPTMD will have a five (5) year life, beginning October 1, 2023, or as soon as 
possible thereafter, and ending five (5) years from its start date. After five (5) years, 
the SFPTMD may be renewed pursuant to the 94 Law if business owners support 
continuing the SFPTMD programs. Once per year, beginning on the anniversary of 
SFPTMD formation, there is a thirty (30) day period in which owners paying fifty 
percent (50%) or more of the assessment may protest and initiate a hearing on 
SFPTMD termination.   
 
Management: 
The San Mateo County/Silicon Valley Convention and Visitors Bureau dba The San 
Francisco Peninsula (SFP) shall serve as the SFPTMD’s Owners’ Association.  The 
Owners’ Association is charged with managing funds and implementing programs in 
accordance with this Plan, and must provide annual reports to the Burlingame City 
Council.  
 
The SFP shall create a SFPTMD Committee tasked with determining how SFPTMD 
funds are spent, within the designated programs in this Plan, subject to final approval 
by the SFP Board. The SFPTMD Committee shall include lodging business owners or 
representatives paying the SFPTMD assessment. 
 
 
 
 
342 of 763

--- page 343 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
5 
January 23, 2023 
II. 
BACKGROUND 
 
TMDs are an evolution of the traditional Business Improvement District.  The first TMD was formed 
in West Hollywood, California in 1989.  Since then, over 100 California destinations have followed 
suit.  In recent years, other states have begun adopting the California model – Massachusetts, 
Montana, 
South 
Dakota, 
Washington, 
Colorado, 
Texas 
and 
Louisiana 
have 
adopted TMD laws.  Several other states are in the process of adopting their own legislation.  The 
cities of Wichita, Kansas and Newark, New Jersey used an existing business improvement district law 
to form a TMD.  And, some cities, like Portland, Oregon and Memphis, Tennessee have utilized their 
home rule powers to create TMDs without a state law.    
 
California’s TMDs collectively 
raise over $300 million annually 
for 
local 
destination 
marketing.  With competitors 
raising their budgets, and 
increasing rivalry for visitor 
dollars, it is important that San 
Francisco Peninsula tourism 
businesses invest in stable, 
commerce-specific marketing 
programs.    
  
TMDs utilize the efficiencies 
of private sector operation in 
the market-based promotion of 
tourism districts. TMDs allow tourism business owners to organize their efforts to increase 
commerce.  Tourism business owners within the TMD pay an assessment and those funds are used 
to provide services that increase commerce.   
  
In California, most TMDs are formed pursuant to the Property and Business Improvement District 
Law of 1994.  This law allows for the creation of a benefit assessment district to raise funds within a 
specific geographic area.  The key difference between TMDs and other benefit assessment districts is that funds 
raised are returned to the private non-profit corporation governing the district.   
  
There are many benefits to TMDs:  
• Funds must be spent on services and improvements that provide a specific benefit only to those 
who pay;   
• Funds cannot be diverted to general government programs;  
• They are customized to fit the needs of payors in each destination;  
• They allow for a wide range of services;  
• They are designed, created and governed by those who will pay the assessment; and  
• They provide a stable, long-term funding source for tourism promotion. 
 
 
343 of 763

--- page 344 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
6 
January 23, 2023 
III. 
BOUNDARY 
 
The SFPTMD includes all lodging businesses, existing and in the future, located within the boundaries 
of the cities of Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Menlo 
Park, Millbrae, Pacifica, Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, South San Francisco, and 
the unincorporated area of San Mateo County, illustrated by the map below. 
 
“Lodging business” means: any hotel, motel, inn, bed and breakfast, or other similar structure or 
portion thereof that is rented for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes on a transient basis. Tourist 
home or house, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodginghouse, roominghouse, apartment house, 
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed location, are not included in 
the definition of “lodging business.” 
 
The boundary is shown on the map below. A list of lodging businesses proposed to be assessed in the 
SFPTMD can be found in Appendix 2.  
 
 
344 of 763

--- page 345 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
7 
January 23, 2023 
IV. 
ASSESSMENT BUDGET AND SERVICES 
 
A. Annual Service Plan 
Assessment funds will be spent to provide specific benefits conferred or privileges granted directly to 
the payors that are not provided to those not charged, and which do not exceed the reasonable cost 
to the City of conferring the benefits or granting the privileges.  The privileges and services provided 
with the SFPTMD funds are sales and marketing programs available only to assessed businesses.   
 
A service plan assessment budget has been developed to deliver services that benefit the assessed 
businesses.  A detailed annual assessment budget will be developed and approved by the SFP.  The 
table below illustrates the initial annual assessment budget allocations.  These activities and allocations 
will also apply in subsequent years. The total initial assessment budget is $10,895,479. 
 
 
Although actual revenues will fluctuate due to market conditions, the proportional allocations of the 
budget shall remain the same.  However, the City and the SFP board shall have the authority to adjust 
budget allocations between the categories by no more than twenty (20%) of the total budget per year.  
A description of the proposed improvements and activities for the initial year of operation is below.  
The same activities are proposed for subsequent years.  In the event of a legal challenge against the 
SFPTMD, any and all assessment funds may be used for the costs of defending the SFPTMD.  In the 
first year of operation, the costs of creating the SFPTMD may be repaid by deducting repayment 
funds proportionally from budget categories.   
 
Each budget category includes all costs related to providing that service. For example, the sales and 
marketing budget includes the cost of staff time dedicated to overseeing and implementing the sales 
and marketing program. Staff time dedicated purely to administrative tasks is allocated to the 
administrative portion of the budget. The costs of an individual staff member may be allocated to 
multiple budget categories. The staffing levels necessary to provide the services below will be 
determined by the SFP Board on an as- needed basis. 
 
 
 
Sales, Marketing, & 
Advocacy, 
$9,805,931 , 90%
Administration & 
Operations, 
$871,638 , 8%
Contingency/Reserve, 
$108,955 , 1%
City Collection Fee,
$108,955 , 1%
Initial Annual Assessment Budget: 
$10,895,479
345 of 763

--- page 346 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
8 
January 23, 2023 
Sales, Marketing, & Advocacy 
A sales and marketing program will promote assessed businesses as tourist, meeting, and event 
destinations.  The sales and marketing program will have a central theme of promoting San Francisco 
Peninsula as a desirable place for overnight visits.  The program will have the goal of increasing 
overnight visitation and room night sales at assessed businesses, and may include the following 
activities:  
• Funds to support group business to offset costs within the destination, thereby generating 
room nights for assessed businesses; 
• Payment of bid fees, incentives or other costs associated with bringing large scale events to 
the destination that generate room nights for assessed businesses; 
• Funds to support events and/or local partnerships that increase the public notoriety of the 
destination as a tourist, meetings, or event destination – thereby increasing consumer demand 
for assessed businesses; 
• Support of public relation strategies that increase the profile of the destination as a tourist, 
meetings, or event destination – thereby increasing consumer demand for assessed businesses; 
• Strategic partnerships, sponsorships, or other alliances that reinforce the destination within 
the travel marketplace and position the San Francisco Peninsula as a destination of choice for 
meetings, events, and leisure travel to assessed businesses; 
• Internet marketing efforts to increase awareness and optimize internet presence to drive 
overnight visitation and room sales to assessed businesses; 
• Print ads in magazines and newspapers, television ads, and radio ads targeted at potential 
visitors to drive overnight visitation and room sales to assessed businesses; 
• Attendance of trade shows to promote assessed businesses; 
• Familiarization tours of the destination and assessed businesses; 
• Preparation and production of collateral promotional materials such as brochures, flyers and 
maps featuring assessed businesses; 
• Attendance of professional industry conferences and affiliation events to promote assessed 
businesses; 
• Lead generation activities designed to attract tourists and group events to assessed businesses; 
• Director of Sales and General Manager meetings to plan and coordinate tourism promotion 
efforts for assessed businesses; 
• Education of hospitality staff on service and safety (related to alcohol and food) designed to 
create a visitor experience that will bring repeat visits to assessed businesses; 
• Education of lodging business management and the Owners’ Association on advocacy and 
marketing strategies best suited to meet assessed businesses’ needs; and 
• Other activities that increase the profile and notoriety of The San Francisco Peninsula as an 
overnight travel destination and promote greater room night sales for assessed businesses. 
 
Administration & Operations 
The administration and operations portion of the budget shall be utilized for administrative staffing 
costs, office costs, and other general administrative costs such as insurance, legal, and accounting fees.   
 
Contingency/Reserve 
The budget includes a contingency line item to account for uncollected assessments, if any.  If there 
are contingency funds collected, they may be held in a reserve fund or utilized for other program, 
administration or renewal costs at the discretion of the SFP Board.  Policies relating to contributions 
to the reserve fund, the target amount of the reserve fund, and expenditure of monies from the reserve 
346 of 763

--- page 347 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
9 
January 23, 2023 
fund shall be set by the SFP Board.  Contingency/reserve funds may be spent on SFPTMD programs 
or administrative and renewal costs in such proportions as determined by the SFP Board.  The reserve 
fund may be used for the costs of renewing the SFPTMD. 
 
City Collection Fee 
As lead agency, the City of Burlingame shall retain a fee equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of 
assessment collected or a flat fee of $60,000, whichever is greater each year, to cover their costs of 
collection and administration.   
 
B. Annual Budget 
The total five (5) year improvement and service plan budget is projected at approximately $10,895,479 
annually, or $64,132,237 through 2028.  A similar budget is expected to apply to subsequent years, but 
this budget is expected to fluctuate as room sales do. 
 
The following chart has been prepared based on a five-year projection developed by SMG Consulting. 
The full report can be found in Appendix 4. 
 
Fiscal 
Year 
Sales, 
Marketing, 
& Advocacy 
Administration 
& Operations 
Contingency 
/ Reserve 
City Collection 
Fee 
Total 
2023-24 
$9,805,931 
$871,638  
$108,955 
$108,955 
$10,895,479 
2024-25 
$10,612,716 
$943,353  
$117,919 
$117,919 
$11,791,907 
2025-26 
$11,437,986 
$1,016,710  
$127,089 
$127,089 
$12,708,873 
2026-27 
$12,422,508 
$1,104,223  
$138,028 
$138,028 
$13,802,787 
2027-28 
$13,439,872 
$1,194,655  
$149,332 
$149,332 
$14,933,191 
Total 
$57,719,013 
$5,130,579  
$641,322 
$641,322 
$64,132,237 
 
 
C. California Constitutional Compliance 
The SFPTMD assessment is not a property-based assessment subject to the requirements of 
Proposition 218. Courts have found Proposition 218 limited the term ‘assessments’ to levies on real 
property.1 Rather, the SFPTMD assessment is a business-based assessment, and is subject to 
Proposition 26.  Pursuant to Proposition 26 all levies are a tax unless they fit one of seven exceptions. 
Two of these exceptions apply to the SFPTMD, a “specific benefit” and a “specific government 
service.” Both require that the costs of benefits or services do not exceed the reasonable costs to the 
City of conferring the benefits or providing the services. 
 
1. Specific Benefit  
Proposition 26 requires that assessment funds be expended on, “a specific benefit conferred or 
privilege granted directly to the payor that is not provided to those not charged, and which does not 
exceed the reasonable costs to the local government of conferring the benefit or granting the 
 
1 Jarvis v. the City of San Diego 72 Cal App. 4th 230 
347 of 763

--- page 348 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
10 
January 23, 2023 
privilege.”2  The services in this Plan are designed to provide targeted benefits directly to assessed 
businesses, and are intended only to provide benefits and services directly to those businesses paying 
the assessment.  These services are tailored not to serve the general public, businesses in general, or 
parcels of land, but rather to serve the specific businesses within the SFPTMD. The activities described 
in this Plan are specifically targeted to increase demand for room night sales for assessed lodging 
businesses within the boundaries of the SFPTMD, and are narrowly tailored.  SFPTMD funds will be 
used exclusively to provide the specific benefit of increased demand for room night sales directly to 
the assessees.  Assessment funds shall not be used to feature non-assessed lodging businesses in 
SFPTMD programs, or to directly generate sales for non-assessed businesses.  The activities paid for 
from assessment revenues are business services constituting and providing specific benefits to the 
assessed businesses.  Nothing in this Plan limits the ability of the SFP Corporation to enter into private 
contracts with non-assessed lodging businesses for the provision of services to those businesses. 
 
The assessment imposed by this SFPTMD is for a specific benefit conferred directly to the payors 
that is not provided to those not charged.  The specific benefit conferred directly to the payors is an 
increase in demand for room night sales.  The specific benefit of an increase in demand for room 
night sales for assessed lodging businesses will be provided only to lodging businesses paying the 
district assessment, with marketing and sales programs promoting lodging businesses paying the 
SFPTMD assessment. The marketing and sales programs will be designed to increase room night sales 
at each assessed lodging businesses.  Because they are necessary to provide the marketing and sales 
programs that specifically benefit the assessed lodging businesses, the administration and contingency 
services also provide the specific benefit of increased demand for room night sales to the assessed 
lodging businesses. 
 
Although the SFPTMD, in providing specific benefits to payors, may produce incidental benefits to 
non-paying businesses, the incidental benefit does not preclude the services from being considered a 
specific benefit.  The legislature has found that, “A specific benefit is not excluded from classification 
as a ‘specific benefit’ merely because an indirect benefit to a non-payor occurs incidentally and without 
cost to the payor as a consequence of providing the specific benefit to the payor.”3   
 
2. Specific Government Service 
The assessment may also be utilized to provide, “a specific government service or product provided 
directly to the payor that is not provided to those not charged, and which does not exceed the 
reasonable costs to the local government of providing the service or product.”4  The legislature has 
recognized that marketing and promotions services like those to be provided by the SFPTMD are 
government services within the meaning of Proposition 265.  Further, the legislature has determined 
that “a specific government service is not excluded from classification as a ‘specific government 
service’ merely because an indirect benefit to a nonpayor occurs incidentally and without cost to the 
payor as a consequence of providing the specific government service to the payor.”6 
 
3. Reasonable Cost 
SFPTMD services will be implemented carefully to ensure they do not exceed the reasonable cost of 
such services.  The full amount assessed will be used to provide the services described herein.  Funds 
will be managed by the SFP, and reports submitted on an annual basis to the City.  Only assessed 
 
2 Cal. Const. art XIII C § 1(e)(1) 
3 Government Code § 53758(a) 
4 Cal. Const. art XIII C § 1(e)(2) 
5 Government Code § 53758(b) 
6 Government Code § 53758(b) 
348 of 763

--- page 349 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
11 
January 23, 2023 
lodging businesses will be featured in marketing materials, receive sales leads generated from 
SFPTMD-funded activities, be featured in advertising campaigns, and benefit from other SFPTMD-
funded services.  Non-assessed lodging businesses will not receive these, nor any other, SFPTMD-
funded services and benefits.   
 
The SFPTMD-funded programs are all targeted directly at and feature only assessed businesses.  It is, 
however, possible that there will be a spill-over benefit to non-assessed businesses.  If non-assessed 
lodging businesses receive incremental room nights, that portion of the promotion or program 
generating those room nights shall be paid with non-SFPTMD funds.  SFPTMD funds shall only be 
spent to benefit the assessed businesses, and shall not be spent on that portion of any program which 
directly generates incidental room nights for non-assessed businesses.   
 
D. Assessment 
The annual assessment rate is one- and one-half percent (1.5%) of gross short-term sleeping room 
rental revenue for lodging businesses with 5,000 square feet or more of dedicated meeting space, and 
0.75% for all other lodging businesses within the SFPTMD’s boundaries. Based on the benefit 
received, assessments will not be collected on stays of more than thirty (30) consecutive days; stays 
provided to airline cockpit and/or cabin crews pursuant to an agreement between a hotel and an 
airline, which is in furtherance of or to facilitate such crews’ performance of their jobs for the airline, 
including layovers between flights; employees of the state or federal government if room charges are 
paid directly by their employing agency and copies of official travel orders are submitted as applicable; 
and any properly credentialed officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason 
of express provision of federal law or international treaty. 
 
The services provided in the SFPTMD are all targeted to benefit payors, however, not all programs 
benefit payors equally. The determination of the assessment rates of one- and one-half percent (1.5%) 
of gross short-term sleeping room rental revenue for lodging businesses with 5,000 square feet or 
more of dedicated meeting space, and 0.75% for all other lodging businesses within the SFPTMD’s 
boundaries, was calculated based on benefit received by payors. SMG Consulting was engaged to 
conduct a Hotel Revenue Proportionality Estimate analysis to quantify the estimated benefit the 
lodging business types will receive from SFPTMD services. By analyzing the projected number of 
rooms sold and the total amount of revenue estimated to be generated from sales and marketing 
programs, SMG Consulting found that properties with 5,000 square feet or more of dedicated meeting 
space will receive approximately double the amount of benefit to all other lodging businesses.  The 
SFPTMD Sales, Marketing, and Advocacy program included in the budget has services that are 
intended to drive convention and meetings to the SFPTMD. Since lodging businesses with 5,000 
square feet or more of dedicated meeting space are uniquely suited to accommodate large conventions 
and will benefit from overnight stays as a result of SFPTMD services intended to bring such business 
activity to the SFPTMD, they are assessed at a higher rate than other lodging businesses in the 
SFPTMD. 
 
The term “dedicated meeting space” as used herein means: a permanent room or space whose primary 
use is dedicated for group and social meetings, meals, and/or functions.  The space has been designed 
for and is marketed and sold as group or event function space.  
 
The term “gross sleeping room rental revenue” as used herein means: the consideration charged, 
whether or not received, for the occupancy of space in a lodging business valued in money, whether 
to be received in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property 
and services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.  Gross sleeping 
room rental revenue shall not include any federal, state, or local taxes collected, including but not 
349 of 763

--- page 350 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
12 
January 23, 2023 
limited to transient occupancy taxes. Based on the benefit received, assessments will not be collected 
on stays of more than thirty (30) consecutive days; stays provided to airline cockpit and/or cabin crews 
pursuant to an agreement between a hotel and an airline, which is in furtherance of or to facilitate 
such crews’ performance of their jobs for the airline, including layovers between flights; employees of 
the state or federal government if room charges are paid directly by their employing agency and copies 
of official travel orders are submitted as applicable; and  
any properly credentialed officer or 
employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express provision of federal law or 
international treaty.   
 
 
The assessment is levied upon and a direct obligation of the assessed lodging business.  However, the 
assessed lodging business may, at its discretion, pass the assessment on to transients.  The amount of 
assessment, if passed on to each transient, shall be disclosed in advance and separately stated from the 
amount of rent charged and any other applicable taxes, and each transient shall receive a receipt for 
payment from the business.  If the SFPTMD assessment is identified separately it shall be disclosed 
as the “SFPTMD Assessment.”  As an alternative, the disclosure may include the amount of the 
SFPTMD assessment and the amount of the assessment imposed pursuant to the California Tourism 
Marketing Act, Government Code §13995 et seq. and shall be disclosed as the “Tourism Assessment.”  
The assessment is imposed solely upon, and is the sole obligation of the assessed lodging business 
even if it is passed on to transients.  The assessment shall not be considered revenue for any purpose, 
including calculation of transient occupancy taxes. 
 
Bonds shall not be issued. 
 
E. Penalties and Interest 
The SFPTMD shall reimburse the City of Burlingame for any costs associated with collecting unpaid 
assessments.  If sums in excess of the delinquent SFPTMD assessment are sought to be recovered in 
the same collection action by the City, the SFPTMD shall bear its pro rata share of such collection 
costs.  Assessed businesses which are delinquent in paying the assessment shall be responsible for 
paying: 
1. Original Delinquency: Any lodging business that fails to remit any assessment imposed within 
the time required shall pay a penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of the assessment in 
addition to the amount of the assessment. 
 
2. Continued Delinquency: Any lodging business that fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or 
before a period of fifteen (15) days following the date on which the remittance first became 
delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of the 
assessment in addition to the amount of the assessment and the five percent (5%) penalty first 
imposed. An additional penalty of five percent (5%) shall be paid for each fifteen (15) days 
thereafter which the remittance is delinquent. 
 
3. Fraud: If the City determines that the nonpayment of any remittance due under this chapter is 
due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the assessment shall be 
added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in subsections (1) and (2) of this section. 
 
4. Interest: In addition to the penalties imposed, any lodging business that fails to remit any 
assessment imposed shall pay interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month or fraction 
thereof on the amount of the assessment, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the 
remittance first became delinquent until paid. 
 
350 of 763

--- page 351 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
13 
January 23, 2023 
F. Time and Manner for Collecting Assessments 
The SFPTMD assessment will be implemented beginning October 1, 2023, or as soon as possible 
thereafter, and ending five (5) years from its start date. The City of Burlingame shall be responsible for 
collecting the assessment on a monthly basis, (including any delinquencies, penalties and interest) from 
each lodging business located in the boundaries of the SFPTMD.  The City shall take all reasonable 
efforts to collect the assessments from each lodging business. The City shall forward the assessments 
collected to the Owners’ Association.   
 
351 of 763

--- page 352 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
14 
January 23, 2023 
V. 
GOVERNANCE 
 
A. Owners’ Association 
The Burlingame City Council, through adoption of this Management District Plan, has the right, 
pursuant to Streets and Highways Code §36651, to identify the body that shall implement the 
proposed program, which shall be the Owners’ Association of the SFPTMD as defined in Streets and 
Highways Code §36612.  The San Francisco Peninsula (SFP) will serve as the SFPTMD’s Owners’ 
Association.  The Owners’ Association is charged with managing funds and implementing programs 
in accordance with the Management District Plan, and must provide annual reports to Burlingame 
City Council.  
 
The SFP shall create a SFPTMD Committee tasked with determining how SFPTMD funds are spent, 
within the designated programs in this Plan, subject to final approval by the SFP Board. The SFPTMD 
Committee shall include lodging business owners or representatives paying the SFPTMD assessment. 
 
B. Brown Act and California Public Records Act Compliance  
An Owners’ Association is a private entity and may not be considered a public entity for any purpose, 
nor may its board members or staff be considered to be public officials for any purpose. The Owners’ 
Association is, however, subject to government regulations relating to transparency, namely the Ralph 
M. Brown Act and the California Public Records Act.  These regulations are designed to promote 
public accountability.  The Owners’ Association acts as a legislative body under the Ralph M. Brown 
Act (Government Code §54950 et seq.).  Thus, meetings of the SFP board and certain committees 
must be held in compliance with the public notice and other requirements of the Brown Act.  The 
Owners’ Association is also subject to the record keeping and disclosure requirements of the California 
Public Records Act.  Accordingly, the Owners’ Association shall publicly report any action taken and 
the vote or abstention on that action of each member present for the action.  
 
C. Annual Report      
The SFP shall present an annual report at the end of each year of operation to the City Council 
pursuant to Streets and Highways Code §36650 (see Appendix 1).  The annual report shall include: 
• Any proposed changes in the boundaries of the improvement district or in any benefit zones 
or classification of businesses within the district. 
• The improvements and activities to be provided for that fiscal year. 
• An estimate of the cost of providing the improvements and the activities for that fiscal year. 
• The method and basis of levying the assessment in sufficient detail to allow each business 
owner to estimate the amount of the assessment to be levied against his or her business for 
that fiscal year. 
• The estimated amount of any surplus or deficit revenues to be carried over from a previous 
fiscal year. 
• The estimated amount of any contributions to be made from sources other than assessments 
levied pursuant to this part. 
 
 
352 of 763

--- page 353 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
15 
January 23, 2023 
APPENDIX 1 – LAW 
 
*** THIS DOCUMENT IS CURRENT THROUGH THE 2022 SUPPLEMENT *** 
(ALL 2021 LEGISLATION) 
 
STREETS AND HIGHWAYS CODE 
DIVISION 18. PARKING 
PART 7. PROPERTY AND BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT LAW OF 1994 
 
CHAPTER 1. General Provisions 
 
ARTICLE 1. Declarations 
 
36600. Citation of part 
 
This part shall be known and may be cited as the “Property and Business Improvement District Law of 1994.” 
 
36601. Legislative findings and declarations; Legislative guidance 
 
The Legislature finds and declares all of the following: 
(a) Businesses located and operating within business districts in some of this state’s communities are economically 
disadvantaged, are underutilized, and are unable to attract customers due to inadequate facilities, services, and 
activities in the business districts. 
(b) It is in the public interest to promote the economic revitalization and physical maintenance of business 
districts in order to create jobs, attract new businesses, and prevent the erosion of the business districts. 
(c) It is of particular local benefit to allow business districts to fund business related improvements, maintenance, 
and activities through the levy of assessments upon the businesses or real property that receive benefits from 
those improvements. 
(d) Assessments levied for the purpose of conferring special benefit upon the real property or a specific benefit 
upon the businesses in a business district are not taxes for the general benefit of a city, even if property, 
businesses, or persons not assessed receive incidental or collateral effects that benefit them. 
(e) Property and business improvement districts formed throughout this state have conferred special benefits 
upon properties and businesses within their districts and have made those properties and businesses more useful 
by providing the following benefits: 
(1) Crime reduction. A study by the Rand Corporation has confirmed a 12-percent reduction in the 
incidence of robbery and an 8-percent reduction in the total incidence of violent crimes within the 30 
districts studied. 
(2) Job creation. 
(3) Business attraction. 
(4) Business retention. 
(5) Economic growth. 
(6) New investments. 
(f) With the dissolution of redevelopment agencies throughout the state, property and business improvement 
districts have become even more important tools with which communities can combat blight, promote economic 
opportunities, and create a clean and safe environment. 
(g) Since the enactment of this act, the people of California have adopted Proposition 218, which added Article 
XIII D to the Constitution in order to place certain requirements and restrictions on the formation of, and 
activities, expenditures, and assessments by property-based districts. Article XIII D of the Constitution provides 
that property-based districts may only levy assessments for special benefits. 
(h) The act amending this section is intended to provide the Legislature’s guidance with regard to this act, its 
interaction with the provisions of Article XIII D of the Constitution, and the determination of special benefits 
in property-based districts. 
(1) The lack of legislative guidance has resulted in uncertainty and inconsistent application of this act, 
which discourages the use of assessments to fund needed improvements, maintenance, and activities in 
property-based districts, contributing to blight and other underutilization of property. 
(2) Activities undertaken for the purpose of conferring special benefits upon property to be assessed 
inherently produce incidental or collateral effects that benefit property or persons not assessed. 
Therefore, for special benefits to exist as a separate and distinct category from general benefits, the 
incidental or collateral effects of those special benefits are inherently part of those special benefits. The 
353 of 763

--- page 354 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
16 
January 23, 2023 
mere fact that special benefits produce incidental or collateral effects that benefit property or persons 
not assessed does not convert any portion of those special benefits or their incidental or collateral effects 
into general benefits. 
(3) It is of the utmost importance that property-based districts created under this act have clarity 
regarding restrictions on assessments they may levy and the proper determination of special benefits. 
Legislative clarity with regard to this act will provide districts with clear instructions and courts with 
legislative intent regarding restrictions on property-based assessments, and the manner in which special 
benefits should be determined. 
 
36602. Purpose of part 
 
The purpose of this part is to supplement previously enacted provisions of law that authorize cities to levy assessments 
within property and business improvement districts, to ensure that those assessments conform to all constitutional 
requirements and are determined and assessed in accordance with the guidance set forth in this act. This part does not 
affect or limit any other provisions of law authorizing or providing for the furnishing of improvements or activities or the 
raising of revenue for these purposes. 
 
36603. Preemption of authority or charter city to adopt ordinances levying assessments 
 
Nothing in this part is intended to preempt the authority of a charter city to adopt ordinances providing for a different 
method of levying assessments for similar or additional purposes from those set forth in this part. A property and business 
improvement district created pursuant to this part is expressly exempt from the provisions of the Special Assessment 
Investigation, Limitation and Majority Protest Act of 1931 (Division 4 (commencing with Section 2800)). 
 
36603.5.  Part prevails over conflicting provisions 
 
Any provision of this part that conflicts with any other provision of law shall prevail over the other provision of law, as to 
districts created under this part. 
 
36604. Severability 
 
This part is intended to be construed liberally and, if any provision is held invalid, the remaining provisions shall remain 
in full force and effect. Assessments levied under this part are not special taxes. 
 
ARTICLE 2. Definitions 
 
36606. “Activities” 
 
“Activities” means, but is not limited to, all of the following that benefit businesses or real property in the district: 
(a) Promotion of public events. 
(b) Furnishing of music in any public place. 
(c) Promotion of tourism within the district. 
(d) Marketing and economic development, including retail retention and recruitment. 
(e) Providing security, sanitation, graffiti removal, street and sidewalk cleaning, and other municipal services 
supplemental to those normally provided by the municipality. 
(f) Other services provided for the purpose of conferring special benefit upon assessed real property or specific 
benefits upon assessed businesses located in the district. 
 
36606.5. “Assessment” 
 
“Assessment” means a levy for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, installing, or maintaining improvements and 
providing activities that will provide certain benefits to properties or businesses located within a property and business 
improvement district. 
 
36607. “Business” 
 
 “Business” means all types of businesses and includes financial institutions and professions. 
 
36608. “City” 
 
354 of 763

--- page 355 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
17 
January 23, 2023 
“City” means a city, county, city and county, or an agency or entity created pursuant to Article 1 (commencing with Section 
6500) of Chapter 5 of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, the public member agencies of which includes only 
cities, counties, or a city and county, or the State of California. 
 
36609. “City council” 
 
“City council” means the city council of a city or the board of supervisors of a county, or the agency, commission, or 
board created pursuant to a joint powers agreement and which is a city within the meaning of this part. 
 
36609.4. “Clerk” 
 
 “Clerk” means the clerk of the legislative body. 
 
36609.5. “General benefit” 
 
 “General benefit” means, for purposes of a property-based district, any benefit that is not a “special benefit” as defined 
in Section 36615.5. 
 
36610. “Improvement”  
 
“Improvement” means the acquisition, construction, installation, or maintenance of any tangible property with an 
estimated useful life of five years or more including, but not limited to, the following: 
(a) Parking facilities. 
(b) Benches, booths, kiosks, display cases, pedestrian shelters and signs. 
(c) Trash receptacles and public restrooms. 
(d) Lighting and heating facilities. 
(e) Decorations. 
(f) Parks. 
(g) Fountains. 
(h) Planting areas. 
(i) Closing, opening, widening, or narrowing of existing streets. 
(j) Facilities or equipment, or both, to enhance security of persons and property within the district. 
(k) Ramps, sidewalks, plazas, and pedestrian malls. 
(l) Rehabilitation or removal of existing structures. 
 
36611. “Management district plan”; “Plan” 
 
“Management district plan” or “plan” means a proposal as defined in Section 36622. 
 
36612. “Owners’ association” 
 
“Owners’ association” means a private nonprofit entity that is under contract with a city to administer or implement 
improvements, maintenance, and activities specified in the management district plan. An owners’ association may be an 
existing nonprofit entity or a newly formed nonprofit entity. An owners’ association is a private entity and may not be 
considered a public entity for any purpose, nor may its board members or staff be considered to be public officials for any 
purpose. Notwithstanding this section, an owners’ association shall comply with the Ralph M. Brown Act (Chapter 9 
(commencing with Section 54950) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code), at all times when matters 
within the subject matter of the district are heard, discussed, or deliberated, and with the California Public Records Act 
(Division 10 (commencing with Section 7920.000) of Title 1 of the Government Code), for all records relating to activities 
of the district.  
 
36614. “Property” 
 
 “Property” means real property situated within a district. 
 
36614.5. “Property and business improvement district”; “District” 
 
 “Property and business improvement district,” or “district,” means a property and business improvement district 
established pursuant to this part. 
 
355 of 763

--- page 356 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
18 
January 23, 2023 
36614.6. “Property-based assessment”  
 
“Property-based assessment” means any assessment made pursuant to this part upon real property. 
 
36614.7. “Property-based district” 
 
“Property-based district” means any district in which a city levies a property-based assessment. 
 
36615. “Property owner”; “Business owner”; “Owner” 
 
“Property owner” means any person shown as the owner of land on the last equalized assessment roll or otherwise known 
to be the owner of land by the city council. “Business owner” means any person recognized by the city as the owner of 
the business. “Owner” means either a business owner or a property owner. The city council has no obligation to obtain 
other information as to the ownership of land or businesses, and its determination of ownership shall be final and 
conclusive for the purposes of this part. Wherever this part requires the signature of the property owner, the signature of 
the authorized agent of the property owner shall be sufficient. Wherever this part requires the signature of the business 
owner, the signature of the authorized agent of the business owner shall be sufficient. 
 
36615.5. “Special benefit” 
 
“Special benefit” means, for purposes of a property-based district, a particular and distinct benefit over and above general 
benefits conferred on real property located in a district or to the public at large. Special benefit includes incidental or 
collateral effects that arise from the improvements, maintenance, or activities of property-based districts even if those 
incidental or collateral effects benefit property or persons not assessed. Special benefit excludes general enhancement of 
property value. 
 
36616. “Tenant” 
 
“Tenant” means an occupant pursuant to a lease of commercial space or a dwelling unit, other than an owner. 
 
ARTICLE 3. Prior Law 
 
36617. Alternate method of financing certain improvements and activities; Effect on other provisions 
 
This part provides an alternative method of financing certain improvements and activities. The provisions of this part shall 
not affect or limit any other provisions of law authorizing or providing for the furnishing of improvements or activities or 
the raising of revenue for these purposes. Every improvement area established pursuant to the Parking and Business 
Improvement Area Law of 1989 (Part 6 (commencing with Section 36500) of this division) is valid and effective and is 
unaffected by this part. 
 
CHAPTER 2. Establishment 
 
36620. Establishment of property and business improvement district 
 
A property and business improvement district may be established as provided in this chapter. 
 
36620.5. Requirement of consent of city council 
 
A county may not form a district within the territorial jurisdiction of a city without the consent of the city council of that 
city. A city may not form a district within the unincorporated territory of a county without the consent of the board of 
supervisors of that county. A city may not form a district within the territorial jurisdiction of another city without the 
consent of the city council of the other city. 
 
36621. Initiation of proceedings; Petition of property or business owners in proposed district 
 
(a) Upon the submission of a written petition, signed by the property or business owners in the proposed district 
who will pay more than 50 percent of the assessments proposed to be levied, the city council may initiate 
proceedings to form a district by the adoption of a resolution expressing its intention to form a district. The 
amount of assessment attributable to property or a business owned by the same property or business owner that 
is in excess of 40 percent of the amount of all assessments proposed to be levied, shall not be included in 
356 of 763

--- page 357 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
19 
January 23, 2023 
determining whether the petition is signed by property or business owners who will pay more than 50 percent of 
the total amount of assessments proposed to be levied. 
(b) The petition of property or business owners required under subdivision (a) shall include a summary of the 
management district plan. That summary shall include all of the following: 
(1) A map showing the boundaries of the district. 
(2) Information specifying where the complete management district plan can be obtained. 
(3) Information specifying that the complete management district plan shall be furnished upon request. 
(c) The resolution of intention described in subdivision (a) shall contain all of the following: 
(1) A brief description of the proposed improvements, maintenance, and activities, the amount of the 
proposed assessment, a statement as to whether the assessment will be levied on property or businesses 
within the district, a statement as to whether bonds will be issued, and a description of the exterior 
boundaries of the proposed district, which may be made by reference to any plan or map that is on file 
with the clerk. The descriptions and statements do not need to be detailed and shall be sufficient if they 
enable an owner to generally identify the nature and extent of the improvements, maintenance, and 
activities, and the location and extent of the proposed district. 
(2) A time and place for a public hearing on the establishment of the property and business 
improvement district and the levy of assessments, which shall be consistent with the requirements of 
Section 36623. 
 
36622. Contents of management district plan 
 
The management district plan shall include, but is not limited to, all of the following: 
(a) If the assessment will be levied on property, a map of the district in sufficient detail to locate each parcel of 
property and, if businesses are to be assessed, each business within the district. If the assessment will be levied 
on businesses, a map that identifies the district boundaries in sufficient detail to allow a business owner to 
reasonably determine whether a business is located within the district boundaries. If the assessment will be levied 
on property and businesses, a map of the district in sufficient detail to locate each parcel of property and to allow 
a business owner to reasonably determine whether a business is located within the district boundaries. 
(b) The name of the proposed district. 
(c) A description of the boundaries of the district, including the boundaries of benefit zones, proposed for 
establishment or extension in a manner sufficient to identify the affected property and businesses included, which 
may be made by reference to any plan or map that is on file with the clerk. The boundaries of a proposed property 
assessment district shall not overlap with the boundaries of another existing property assessment district created 
pursuant to this part. This part does not prohibit the boundaries of a district created pursuant to this part to 
overlap with other assessment districts established pursuant to other provisions of law, including, but not limited 
to, the Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 1989 (Part 6 (commencing with Section 36500)). This 
part does not prohibit the boundaries of a business assessment district created pursuant to this part to overlap 
with another business assessment district created pursuant to this part. This part does not prohibit the boundaries 
of a business assessment district created pursuant to this part to overlap with a property assessment district 
created pursuant to this part. 
(d) The improvements, maintenance, and activities proposed for each year of operation of the district and the 
maximum cost thereof. If the improvements, maintenance, and activities proposed for each year of operation are 
the same, a description of the first year’s proposed improvements, maintenance, and activities and a statement 
that the same improvements, maintenance, and activities are proposed for subsequent years shall satisfy the 
requirements of this subdivision. 
(e) The total annual amount proposed to be expended for improvements, maintenance, or activities, and debt 
service in each year of operation of the district. If the assessment is levied on businesses, this amount may be 
estimated based upon the assessment rate. If the total annual amount proposed to be expended in each year of 
operation of the district is not significantly different, the amount proposed to be expended in the initial year and 
a statement that a similar amount applies to subsequent years shall satisfy the requirements of this subdivision. 
(f) The proposed source or sources of financing, including the proposed method and basis of levying the 
assessment in sufficient detail to allow each property or business owner to calculate the amount of the assessment 
to be levied against his or her property or business. The plan also shall state whether bonds will be issued to 
finance improvements. 
(g) The time and manner of collecting the assessments. 
(h) The specific number of years in which assessments will be levied. In a new district, the maximum number of 
years shall be five. Upon renewal, a district shall have a term not to exceed 10 years. Notwithstanding these 
limitations, a district created pursuant to this part to finance capital improvements with bonds may levy 
assessments until the maximum maturity of the bonds. The management district plan may set forth specific 
increases in assessments for each year of operation of the district. 
357 of 763

--- page 358 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
20 
January 23, 2023 
(i) The proposed time for implementation and completion of the management district plan. 
(j) Any proposed rules and regulations to be applicable to the district. 
(k) 
(1) A list of the properties or businesses to be assessed, including the assessor’s parcel numbers for 
properties to be assessed, and a statement of the method or methods by which the expenses of a district 
will be imposed upon benefited real property or businesses, in proportion to the benefit received by the 
property or business, to defray the cost thereof. 
(2) In a property-based district, the proportionate special benefit derived by each identified parcel shall 
be determined exclusively in relationship to the entirety of the capital cost of a public improvement, the 
maintenance and operation expenses of a public improvement, or the cost of the activities. An 
assessment shall not be imposed on any parcel that exceeds the reasonable cost of the proportional 
special benefit conferred on that parcel. Only special benefits are assessable, and a property-based 
district shall separate the general benefits, if any, from the special benefits conferred on a parcel. Parcels 
within a property-based district that are owned or used by any city, public agency, the State of California, 
or the United States shall not be exempt from assessment unless the governmental entity can 
demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that those publicly owned parcels in fact receive no 
special benefit. The value of any incidental, secondary, or collateral effects that arise from the 
improvements, maintenance, or activities of a property-based district and that benefit property or 
persons not assessed shall not be deducted from the entirety of the cost of any special benefit or affect 
the proportionate special benefit derived by each identified parcel. 
(l) In a property-based district, the total amount of all special benefits to be conferred upon the properties located 
within the property-based district. 
(m) In a property-based district, the total amount of general benefits, if any. 
(n) In a property-based district, a detailed engineer’s report prepared by a registered professional engineer certified 
by the State of California supporting all assessments contemplated by the management district plan. 
(o) Any other item or matter required to be incorporated therein by the city council. 
 
36623. Procedure to levy assessment 
 
(a) If a city council proposes to levy a new or increased property assessment, the notice and protest and hearing 
procedure shall comply with Section 53753 of the Government Code. 
(b) If a city council proposes to levy a new or increased business assessment, the notice and protest and hearing 
procedure shall comply with Section 54954.6 of the Government Code, except that notice shall be mailed to the 
owners of the businesses proposed to be assessed. A protest may be made orally or in writing by any interested 
person. Every written protest shall be filed with the clerk at or before the time fixed for the public hearing. The 
city council may waive any irregularity in the form or content of any written protest. A written protest may be 
withdrawn in writing at any time before the conclusion of the public hearing. Each written protest shall contain 
a description of the business in which the person subscribing the protest is interested sufficient to identify the 
business and, if a person subscribing is not shown on the official records of the city as the owner of the business, 
the protest shall contain or be accompanied by written evidence that the person subscribing is the owner of the 
business or the authorized representative. A written protest that does not comply with this section shall not be 
counted in determining a majority protest. If written protests are received from the owners or authorized 
representatives of businesses in the proposed district that will pay 50 percent or more of the assessments 
proposed to be levied and protests are not withdrawn so as to reduce the protests to less than 50 percent, no 
further proceedings to levy the proposed assessment against such businesses, as contained in the resolution of 
intention, shall be taken for a period of one year from the date of the finding of a majority protest by the city 
council. 
(c) If a city council proposes to conduct a single proceeding to levy both a new or increased property assessment 
and a new or increased business assessment, the notice and protest and hearing procedure for the property 
assessment shall comply with subdivision (a), and the notice and protest and hearing procedure for the business 
assessment shall comply with subdivision (b). If a majority protest is received from either the property or business 
owners, that respective portion of the assessment shall not be levied. The remaining portion of the assessment 
may be levied unless the improvement or other special benefit was proposed to be funded by assessing both 
property and business owners.  
 
36624. Changes to proposed assessments 
 
At the conclusion of the public hearing to establish the district, the city council may adopt, revise, change, reduce, or 
modify the proposed assessment or the type or types of improvements, maintenance, and activities to be funded with the 
358 of 763

--- page 359 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
21 
January 23, 2023 
revenues from the assessments. Proposed assessments may only be revised by reducing any or all of them. At the public 
hearing, the city council may only make changes in, to, or from the boundaries of the proposed property and business 
improvement district that will exclude territory that will not benefit from the proposed improvements, maintenance, and 
activities. Any modifications, revisions, reductions, or changes to the proposed assessment district shall be reflected in the 
notice and map recorded pursuant to Section 36627. 
 
36625. Resolution of formation 
 
(a) If the city council, following the public hearing, decides to establish a proposed property and business 
improvement district, the city council shall adopt a resolution of formation that shall include, but is not limited 
to, all of the following: 
(1) A brief description of the proposed improvements, maintenance, and activities, the amount of the 
proposed assessment, a statement as to whether the assessment will be levied on property, businesses, 
or both within the district, a statement on whether bonds will be issued, and a description of the exterior 
boundaries of the proposed district, which may be made by reference to any plan or map that is on file 
with the clerk. The descriptions and statements need not be detailed and shall be sufficient if they enable 
an owner to generally identify the nature and extent of the improvements, maintenance, and activities 
and the location and extent of the proposed district. 
(2) The number, date of adoption, and title of the resolution of intention. 
(3) The time and place where the public hearing was held concerning the establishment of the district. 
(4) A determination regarding any protests received. The city shall not establish the district or levy 
assessments if a majority protest was received. 
(5) A statement that the properties, businesses, or properties and businesses in the district established 
by the resolution shall be subject to any amendments to this part. 
(6) A statement that the improvements, maintenance, and activities to be conferred on businesses and 
properties in the district will be funded by the levy of the assessments. The revenue from the levy of 
assessments within a district shall not be used to provide improvements, maintenance, or activities 
outside the district or for any purpose other than the purposes specified in the resolution of intention, 
as modified by the city council at the hearing concerning establishment of the district. Notwithstanding 
the foregoing, improvements and activities that must be provided outside the district boundaries to 
create a special or specific benefit to the assessed parcels or businesses may be provided, but shall be 
limited to marketing or signage pointing to the district. 
(7) A finding that the property or businesses within the area of the property and business improvement 
district will be benefited by the improvements, maintenance, and activities funded by the proposed 
assessments, and, for a property-based district, that property within the district will receive a special 
benefit. 
(8) In a property-based district, the total amount of all special benefits to be conferred on the properties 
within the property-based district. 
(b) The adoption of the resolution of formation and, if required, recordation of the notice and map pursuant to 
Section 36627 shall constitute the levy of an assessment in each of the fiscal years referred to in the management 
district plan. 
 
36627. Notice and assessment diagram 
 
Following adoption of the resolution establishing district assessments on properties pursuant to Section 36625, the clerk 
shall record a notice and an assessment diagram pursuant to Section 3114. No other provision of Division 4.5 
(commencing with Section 3100) applies to an assessment district created pursuant to this part. 
 
36628. Establishment of separate benefit zones within district; Categories of businesses 
 
The city council may establish one or more separate benefit zones within the district based upon the degree of benefit 
derived from the improvements or activities to be provided within the benefit zone and may impose a different assessment 
within each benefit zone. If the assessment is to be levied on businesses, the city council may also define categories of 
businesses based upon the degree of benefit that each will derive from the improvements or activities to be provided 
within the district and may impose a different assessment or rate of assessment on each category of business, or on each 
category of business within each zone. 
 
36628.5. Assessments on businesses or property owners 
 
359 of 763

--- page 360 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
22 
January 23, 2023 
The city council may levy assessments on businesses or on property owners, or a combination of the two, pursuant to this 
part. The city council shall structure the assessments in whatever manner it determines corresponds with the distribution 
of benefits from the proposed improvements, maintenance, and activities, provided that any property-based assessment 
conforms with the requirements set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (k) of Section 36622. 
 
36629. Provisions and procedures applicable to benefit zones and business categories 
 
All provisions of this part applicable to the establishment, modification, or disestablishment of a property and business 
improvement district apply to the establishment, modification, or disestablishment of benefit zones or categories of 
business. The city council shall, to establish, modify, or disestablish a benefit zone or category of business, follow the 
procedure to establish, modify, or disestablish a property and business improvement district. 
 
36630. Expiration of district; Creation of new district 
 
If a property and business improvement district expires due to the time limit set pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 
36622, a new management district plan may be created and the district may be renewed pursuant to this part. 
 
CHAPTER 3. Assessments 
 
 
36631. Time and manner of collection of assessments; Delinquent payments 
 
The collection of the assessments levied pursuant to this part shall be made at the time and in the manner set forth by the 
city council in the resolution levying the assessment. Assessments levied on real property may be collected at the same 
time and in the same manner as for the ad valorem property tax, and may provide for the same lien priority and penalties 
for delinquent payment. All delinquent payments for assessments levied pursuant to this part may be charged interest and 
penalties.  
 
36632. Assessments to be based on estimated benefit; Classification of real property and businesses; Exclusion 
of residential and agricultural property 
 
(a) The assessments levied on real property pursuant to this part shall be levied on the basis of the estimated 
benefit to the real property within the property and business improvement district. The city council may classify 
properties for purposes of determining the benefit to property of the improvements and activities provided 
pursuant to this part. 
(b) Assessments levied on businesses pursuant to this part shall be levied on the basis of the estimated benefit to 
the businesses within the property and business improvement district. The city council may classify businesses 
for purposes of determining the benefit to the businesses of the improvements and activities provided pursuant 
to this part. 
(c) Properties zoned solely for residential use, or that are zoned for agricultural use, are conclusively presumed 
not to benefit from the improvements and service funded through these assessments, and shall not be subject to 
any assessment pursuant to this part. 
 
36633. Time for contesting validity of assessment 
 
The validity of an assessment levied under this part shall not be contested in an action or proceeding unless the action or 
proceeding is commenced within 30 days after the resolution levying the assessment is adopted pursuant to Section 36625. 
An appeal from a final judgment in an action or proceeding shall be perfected within 30 days after the entry of judgment. 
 
36634. Service contracts authorized to establish levels of city services 
 
The city council may execute baseline service contracts that would establish levels of city services that would continue 
after a property and business improvement district has been formed. 
 
36635. Request to modify management district plan 
 
The owners’ association may, at any time, request that the city council modify the management district plan. Any 
modification of the management district plan shall be made pursuant to this chapter. 
 
36636. Modification of plan by resolution after public hearing; Adoption of resolution of intention 
360 of 763

--- page 361 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
23 
January 23, 2023 
 
(a) Upon the written request of the owners’ association, the city council may modify the management district 
plan after conducting one public hearing on the proposed modifications. The city council may modify the 
improvements and activities to be funded with the revenue derived from the levy of the assessments by adopting 
a resolution determining to make the modifications after holding a public hearing on the proposed modifications. 
If the modification includes the levy of a new or increased assessment, the city council shall comply with Section 
36623. Notice of all other public hearings pursuant to this section shall comply with both of the following: 
(1) The resolution of intention shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city once 
at least seven days before the public hearing. 
(2) A complete copy of the resolution of intention shall be mailed by first class mail, at least 10 days 
before the public hearing, to each business owner or property owner affected by the proposed 
modification. 
(b) The city council shall adopt a resolution of intention which states the proposed modification prior to the 
public hearing required by this section. The public hearing shall be held not more than 90 days after the adoption 
of the resolution of intention. 
 
36637. Reflection of modification in notices recorded and maps 
 
Any subsequent modification of the resolution shall be reflected in subsequent notices and maps recorded pursuant to 
Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 3100), in a manner consistent with the provisions of Section 36627. 
 
 
CHAPTER 3.5. Financing 
 
36640.  Bonds authorized; Procedure; Restriction on reduction or termination of assessments  
 
(a)The city council may, by resolution, determine and declare that bonds shall be issued to finance the estimated 
cost of some or all of the proposed improvements described in the resolution of formation adopted pursuant to 
Section 36625, if the resolution of formation adopted pursuant to that section provides for the issuance of bonds, 
under the Improvement Bond Act of 1915 (Division 10 (commencing with Section 8500)) or in conjunction with 
Marks-Roos Local Bond Pooling Act of 1985 (Article 4 (commencing with Section 6584) of Chapter 5 of Division 
7 of Title 1 of the Government Code). Either act, as the case may be, shall govern the proceedings relating to 
the issuance of bonds, although proceedings under the Bond Act of 1915 may be modified by the city council as 
necessary to accommodate assessments levied upon business pursuant to this part. 
(b) The resolution adopted pursuant to subdivision (a) shall generally describe the proposed improvements 
specified in the resolution of formation adopted pursuant to Section 36625, set forth the estimated cost of those 
improvements, specify the number of annual installments and the fiscal years during which they are to be 
collected. The amount of debt service to retire the bonds shall not exceed the amount of revenue estimated to 
be raised from assessments over 30 years. 
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, assessments levied to pay the principal and interest on any 
bond issued pursuant to this section shall not be reduced or terminated if doing so would interfere with the timely 
retirement of the debt. 
 
CHAPTER 4. Governance 
 
36650. Report by owners’ association; Approval or modification by city council 
 
(a) The owners’ association shall cause to be prepared a report for each fiscal year, except the first year, for which 
assessments are to be levied and collected to pay the costs of the improvements, maintenance, and activities 
described in the report. The owners’ association’s first report shall be due after the first year of operation of the 
district. The report may propose changes, including, but not limited to, the boundaries of the property and 
business improvement district or any benefit zones within the district, the basis and method of levying the 
assessments, and any changes in the classification of property, including any categories of business, if a 
classification is used. 
(b) The report shall be filed with the clerk and shall refer to the property and business improvement district by 
name, specify the fiscal year to which the report applies, and, with respect to that fiscal year, shall contain all of 
the following information: 
(1) Any proposed changes in the boundaries of the property and business improvement district or in 
any benefit zones or classification of property or businesses within the district. 
(2) The improvements, maintenance, and activities to be provided for that fiscal year. 
361 of 763

--- page 362 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
24 
January 23, 2023 
(3) An estimate of the cost of providing the improvements, maintenance, and activities for that fiscal 
year. 
(4) The method and basis of levying the assessment in sufficient detail to allow each real property or 
business owner, as appropriate, to estimate the amount of the assessment to be levied against his or her 
property or business for that fiscal year. 
(5) The estimated amount of any surplus or deficit revenues to be carried over from a previous fiscal 
year. 
(6) The estimated amount of any contributions to be made from sources other than assessments levied 
pursuant to this part. 
(c) The city council may approve the report as filed by the owners’ association or may modify any particular 
contained in the report and approve it as modified. Any modification shall be made pursuant to Sections 36635 
and 36636. 
The city council shall not approve a change in the basis and method of levying assessments that would impair an 
authorized or executed contract to be paid from the revenues derived from the levy of assessments, including 
any commitment to pay principal and interest on any bonds issued on behalf of the district. 
 
36651. Designation of owners’ association to provide improvements, maintenance, and activities 
 
The management district plan may, but is not required to, state that an owners’ association will provide the improvements, 
maintenance, and activities described in the management district plan. If the management district plan designates an 
owners’ association, the city shall contract with the designated nonprofit corporation to provide services. 
 
CHAPTER 5. Renewal 
 
36660. Renewal of district; Transfer or refund of remaining revenues; District term limit 
 
(a) Any district previously established whose term has expired, or will expire, may be renewed by following the 
procedures for establishment as provided in this chapter. 
(b) Upon renewal, any remaining revenues derived from the levy of assessments, or any revenues derived from 
the sale of assets acquired with the revenues, shall be transferred to the renewed district. If the renewed district 
includes additional parcels or businesses not included in the prior district, the remaining revenues shall be spent 
to benefit only the parcels or businesses in the prior district. If the renewed district does not include parcels or 
businesses included in the prior district, the remaining revenues attributable to these parcels shall be refunded to 
the owners of these parcels or businesses. 
(c) Upon renewal, a district shall have a term not to exceed 10 years, or, if the district is authorized to issue bonds, 
until the maximum maturity of those bonds. There is no requirement that the boundaries, assessments, 
improvements, or activities of a renewed district be the same as the original or prior district. 
 
CHAPTER 6. Disestablishment  
 
36670. Circumstances permitting disestablishment of district; Procedure 
 
(a) Any district established or extended pursuant to the provisions of this part, where there is no indebtedness, 
outstanding and unpaid, incurred to accomplish any of the purposes of the district, may be disestablished by 
resolution by the city council in either of the following circumstances: 
(1) If the city council finds there has been misappropriation of funds, malfeasance, or a violation of law 
in connection with the management of the district, it shall notice a hearing on disestablishment. 
(2) During the operation of the district, there shall be a 30-day period each year in which assessees may 
request disestablishment of the district. The first such period shall begin one year after the date of 
establishment of the district and shall continue for 30 days. The next such 30-day period shall begin 
two years after the date of the establishment of the district. Each successive year of operation of the 
district shall have such a 30-day period. Upon the written petition of the owners or authorized 
representatives of real property or the owners or authorized representatives of businesses in the district 
who pay 50 percent or more of the assessments levied, the city council shall pass a resolution of 
intention to disestablish the district. The city council shall notice a hearing on disestablishment. 
(b) The city council shall adopt a resolution of intention to disestablish the district prior to the public hearing 
required by this section. The resolution shall state the reason for the disestablishment, shall state the time and 
place of the public hearing, and shall contain a proposal to dispose of any assets acquired with the revenues of 
the assessments levied within the property and business improvement district. The notice of the hearing on 
disestablishment required by this section shall be given by mail to the property owner of each parcel or to the 
362 of 763

--- page 363 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
25 
January 23, 2023 
owner of each business subject to assessment in the district, as appropriate. The city shall conduct the public 
hearing not less than 30 days after mailing the notice to the property or business owners. The public hearing shall 
be held not more than 60 days after the adoption of the resolution of intention. 
 
36671. Refund of remaining revenues upon disestablishment or expiration without renewal of district; 
Calculation of refund; Use of outstanding revenue collected after disestablishment of district 
 
(a) Upon the disestablishment or expiration without renewal of a district, any remaining revenues, after all 
outstanding debts are paid, derived from the levy of assessments, or derived from the sale of assets acquired with 
the revenues, or from bond reserve or construction funds, shall be refunded to the owners of the property or 
businesses then located and operating within the district in which assessments were levied by applying the same 
method and basis that was used to calculate the assessments levied in the fiscal year in which the district is 
disestablished or expires. All outstanding assessment revenue collected after disestablishment shall be spent on 
improvements and activities specified in the management district plan. 
(b) If the disestablishment occurs before an assessment is levied for the fiscal year, the method and basis that 
was used to calculate the assessments levied in the immediate prior fiscal year shall be used to calculate the 
amount of any refund. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
363 of 763

--- page 364 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
26 
January 23, 2023 
APPENDIX 2 – ASSESSED BUSINESSES 
 
 
HOTEL NAME 
SITE ADDRESS  
CITY 
ST 
ZIP 
AC HOTEL SAN FRANCISCO 
AIRPORT/OYSTER POINT WATERFRONT 
1333 Veterans Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
AIRPORT INN 
751 Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
ALL SEASONS LODGE 
800 El Camino Real 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
ALOFT SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT 
401 E. Millbrae Ave 
Millbrae 
CA 
94030 
AMERICANA INN MOTEL 
760 El Camino Real 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
AMERICAS BEST VALUE INN - PACIFICA 
2160 Francisco Blvd 
Pacifica 
CA 
94044 
ANCHOR INN PACIFICA 
500 San Pedro Ave 
Pacifica 
CA 
94044 
ARISTOCRAT HOTEL, BW SIGNATURE 
COLLECTION     
1410 Cabrillo Hwy S 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
ATHERTON INN 
1201 W Selby Lane  
Redwood City 
CA 
94061 
ATHERTON PARK INN & SUITES 
2834 El Camino Real 
Redwood City 
CA 
94061 
BAY LANDING HOTEL 
1550 Bayshore Hwy 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
BAYHILL INN 
950 El Camino Real 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
BEACH HOUSE HOTEL   
4100 Cabrillo Hwy N 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
BELMONT PALMS 
700 El Camino Real 
Belmont 
CA 
94002 
BEST WESTERN COYOTE POINT 
480 N Bayshore Blvd 
San Mateo 
CA 
94401 
BEST WESTERN INN 
316 El Camino Real 
Redwood City 
CA 
94062 
BEST WESTERN PLUS EXECUTIVE 
SUITES    
25 5th Ave 
Redwood City 
CA 
94063 
BEST WESTERN PLUS GROSVENOR 
HOTEL 
380 S Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
BUDGET INN 
2526 El Camino Real 
Redwood City 
CA 
94061 
CANYON RANCH WELLNESS RETREAT   
16350 Skyline Blvd 
Woodside 
CA 
94062 
CAPRI MOTEL 
2380 El Camino Real 
Redwood City 
CA 
94063 
THE CATRINA HOTEL   
2110 S El Camino Real 
San Mateo 
CA 
94403 
COMFORT INN & SUITES - SAN BRUNO 
611 San Bruno Ave E 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
COMFORT INN & SUITES SFO NORTH 
121 E. Grand Ave 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
COSTANOA LODGE+CAMP+RESORT  
2001 Rossi Rd 
Pescadero 
CA 
94060 
COUNTRY INN & SUITES BY RADISSON 
251 El Camino Real 
San Carlos 
CA 
94070 
COURTYARD REDWOOD CITY  
600 Bair Island Rd 
Redwood City 
CA 
94063 
COURTYARD SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT   
1050 Bayhill Dr 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
COURTYARD SAN MATEO FOSTER CITY 
550 Shell Blvd 
Foster City 
CA 
94404 
CROWNE PLAZA FOSTER CITY-SAN 
MATEO 
1221 Chess Dr 
Foster City 
CA 
94404 
CROWNE PLAZA S.F. AIRPORT 
1177 Airport Blvd 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
CYPRESS INN ON MIRAMAR BEACH 
407 Mirada Rd 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
DAYS INN - REDWOOD CITY 
2650 El Camino Real 
Redwood City 
CA 
94061 
DAYS INN S.F. AIRPORT-OYSTER POINT - 
SSF 
1113 Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
DELUXE INN - REDWOOD CITY 
1402 Stafford St 
Redwood City 
CA 
94062 
364 of 763

--- page 365 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
27 
January 23, 2023 
DELUXE INN - SSF 
920 El Camino Real 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
DOUBLETREE BY HILTON S.F. AIRPORT 
835 Airport Blvd 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
DOUBLETREE BY HILTON S.F. AIRPORT 
NORTH 
5000 Sierra Point 
Parkway 
Brisbane 
CA 
94005 
DOUBLETREE BY HILTON SF / SOUTH 
AIRPORT BLVD  
275 S Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
THE DYLAN HOTEL AT SFO 
110 S El Camino Real 
Millbrae 
CA 
94030 
EMBASSY SUITES S.F. AIRPORT  SOUTH 
SAN FRANCISCO 
250 Gateway Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
EMBASSY SUITES S.F. AIRPORT - 
WATERFRONT 
150 Anza Blvd 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
EXTENDED STAY AMERICA - BELMONT 
120 Sem Lane 
Belmont 
CA 
94002 
EXTENDED STAY AMERICA - SAN 
CARLOS 
3 Circle Star Way 
San Carlos 
CA 
94070 
EXTENDED STAY AMERICA - SAN 
MATEO 
1830 Gateway Dr 
San Mateo 
CA 
94404 
FAIRFIELD INN & SUITES SAN 
FRANCISCO PACIFICA 
500 Old County Rd  
Pacifica 
CA 
94044 
FAIRFIELD INN & SUITES SAN 
FRANCISCO SAN CARLOS   
555 Skyway Rd 
San Carlos 
CA 
94070 
FAIRFIELD INN & SUITES SFO OYSTER 
POINT AREA 
127 W. Harris Avenue 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
FOUR POINTS BY SHERATON HOTEL & 
SUITES 
264 S Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
FOUR SEASONS HOTEL SILICON VALLEY 
2050 University Ave 
East Palo Alto 
CA 
94303 
GARDEN MOTEL 
1690 Broadway 
Redwood City 
CA 
94063 
GATEWAY INN & SUITES 
516 El Camino Real 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
GOOD LIVING INN 
1562 El Camino Real 
San Carlos 
CA 
94070 
GOOD NITE INN 
485 Veterans Blvd 
Redwood City 
CA 
94063 
GRAND BAY SAN FRANCISCO 
223 Twin Dolphin Dr 
Redwood City 
CA 
94065 
GRAND HYATT AT SFO   
55 S. McDonnell Road 
San Francisco 
CA 
94128 
HALF MOON BAY INN 
401 Main St 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
HALF MOON BAY LODGE    
2400 Cabrillo Hwy S 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
HAMPTON INN & SUITES SFO SOUTH - 
BURLINGAME 
1755 Bayshore Hwy 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
HAMPTON INN & SUITES - SAN MATEO    
2940 S. Norfolk St.  
San Mateo 
CA 
94403 
HAMPTON INN SFO NORTH - SSF 
300 Gateway Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
HARBOR VIEW INN 
51 Ave Alhambra 
El Granada 
CA 
94018 
HILTON GARDEN INN SAN MATEO  
2000 Bridgepoint Circle 
San Mateo 
CA 
94404 
HILTON GARDEN INN SFO - 
BURLINGAME 
765 Airport Blvd 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
HILTON GARDEN INN - SFO NORTH - 
SSF    
670 Gateway Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
HILTON S.F. AIRPORT BAYFRONT 
600 Airport Blvd 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
HOLIDAY INN & SUITES SAN MATEO-SF 
SFO    
330 N Bayshore Blvd 
San Mateo 
CA 
94401 
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS & SUITES 
BELMONT 
1650 El Camino Real 
Belmont 
CA 
94002 
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS REDWOOD CITY 
CENTRAL 
1836 El Camino Real 
Redwood City 
CA 
94063 
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS SFO NORTH - 
SSF 
373 S Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
365 of 763

--- page 366 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
28 
January 23, 2023 
HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS SFO SOUTH - 
BURLINGAME 
1250 Bayshore Hwy 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
HOME2 SUITES BY HILTON SFO NORTH   
550 Gateway Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
HOMEWOOD SUITES BY HILTON 
BELMONT   
1201 Shoreway Road 
Belmont 
CA 
94002 
HOMEWOOD SUITES BY HILTON SFO 
AIRPORT NORTH   
2000 Shoreline Court 
Brisbane 
CA 
94005 
HOTEL 1550  
1550 El Camino Real 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
HOTEL ALUXOR 
500 El Camino Real 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
HOTEL AURA SFO 
190 El Camino Real 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
HOTEL BELMONT 
560 El Camino Real 
Belmont 
CA 
94002 
HOTEL FOCUS SFO 
111 Mitchell Ave 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
HOTEL NOVA SFO BY FAIRBRIDGE 
410 S Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
HOTEL V 
222 S Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
HYATT HOUSE BELMONT/REDWOOD 
SHORES 
400 Concourse Dr 
Belmont 
CA 
94002 
HYATT PLACE SAN CARLOS  
26 El Camino Real 
San Carlos 
CA 
94070 
HYATT REGENCY SAN FRANCISCO 
AIRPORT      
1333 Bayshore Hwy 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
INN @ BAYSHORE 
140 N Bayshore Blvd 
San Mateo 
CA 
94401 
INN AT MAVERICKS 
346 Princeton Ave 
El Granada 
CA 
94018 
INN AT ROCKAWAY 
200 Rockaway Beach 
Ave 
Pacifica 
CA 
94044 
INN BY THE SFO 
701 Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
LA QUINTA INN & SUITES S.F. AIRPORT 
WEST 
1390 El Camino Real 
Millbrae 
CA 
94030 
LA QUINTA INN S.F. AIRPORT NORTH  
20 Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
LARKSPUR LANDING HOTEL SSF   
690 Gateway Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
LIA HOTEL  
950 El Camino Real 
San Carlos 
CA 
94070 
LIGHTHOUSE HOTEL   
105 Rockaway Beach 
Ave 
Pacifica 
CA 
94044 
MARRIOTT FAIRFIELD INN & SUITES 
SFO 
250 El Camino Real 
Millbrae 
CA 
94030 
MILL ROSE INN   
615 Mill St 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
MILLWOOD INN & SUITES 
1375 El Camino Real 
Millbrae 
CA 
94030 
THE MIRAMAR INN & SUITES 
3020 Cabrillo Hwy N 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
MOTEL 6 - BELMONT 
1101 Shoreway Rd 
Belmont 
CA 
94002 
NANTUCKET WHALE INN 
779 Main St 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
NICHE HOTEL  
868 Main St 
Redwood City 
CA 
94063 
OCEAN VIEW INN  
8425 Cabrillo Hwy 
Montara 
CA 
94037 
THE OCEANFRONT HOTEL 
211 Mirada Rd 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
OCEANO HOTEL & SPA   
280 Capistrano Rd 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
PACIFICA BEACH HOTEL 
525 Crespi Dr 
Pacifica 
CA 
94044 
PARK POINTE HOTEL 
245 S. Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
PESCADERO CREEK INN   
393 Stage Rd 
Pescadero  
CA 
94060 
366 of 763

--- page 367 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
29 
January 23, 2023 
QUALITY INN HALF MOON BAY 
2930 Cabrillo Hwy N 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
RAMADA LIMITED SUITES 
721 Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
REDWOOD CREEK INN 
1090 El Camino Real 
Redwood City 
CA 
94063 
REDWOOD MOTOR COURT 
3706 Rolison Rd 
Redwood City 
CA 
94063 
REGENCY INN SFO 
411 San Bruno Ave E 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
RESIDENCE INN SAN FRANCISCO 
AIRPORT/MILLBRAE   
161 N. Rollins Road 
Millbrae 
CA 
94030 
RESIDENCE INN REDWOOD CITY SAN 
CARLOS     
800 E. San Carlos Ave 
San Carlos 
CA 
94070 
RESIDENCE INN SAN FRANCISCO 
AIRPORT/SAN MATEO 
2000 Winward Way 
San Mateo 
CA 
94404 
THE RITZ-CARLTON, HALF MOON BAY 
One Miramontes Point 
Rd 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
RITZ INN 
151 El Camino Real 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
ROYAL INN 
120 Hickey Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
SAN BENITO HOUSE 
356 Main St 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
SAN CARLOS INN 
1140 Morse Blvd 
San Carlos 
CA 
94070 
SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT MARRIOTT 
WATERFRONT  
1800 Old Bayshore Hwy 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
SAN MATEO MARRIOTT 
1770 So. Amphlett Blvd 
San Mateo 
CA 
94402 
SEA BREEZE MOTEL 
100 Rockaway Beach 
Ave 
Pacifica 
CA 
94044 
SEAL COVE INN 
221 Cypress Ave 
Moss Beach 
CA 
94038 
SEQUOIA INN 
526 El Camino Real 
Redwood City 
CA 
94063 
SFO AIRPORT HOTEL, EL RANCHO INN 
1100 El Camino Real 
Millbrae 
CA 
94030 
SILICON VALLEY INN 
630 El Camino Real 
Belmont 
CA 
94002 
SONESTA ES SUITES SFO SAN BRUNO 
1350 Huntington 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
SONESTA ES SUITES SFO OYSTER POINT 
WATERFRONT  
1350 Veterans Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
SONESTA SELECT SFO OYSTER POINT 
WATERFRONT  
1300 Veterans Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
SPRINGHILL SUITES BELMONT 
REDWOOD SHORES 
1401 Shoreway Rd 
Belmont 
CA 
94002 
SUPER 8 S.F. AIRPORT - SAN BRUNO 
421 El Camino Real 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
TOWNEPLACE SUITES SAN MATEO 
FOSTER CITY  
1299 Chess Drive 
Foster City 
CA 
94404 
TRAVELERS INN 
100 Hickey Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
TRAVELODGE SFO NORTH 
326 S Airport Blvd 
So. San 
Francisco 
CA 
94080 
VAGABOND INN EXECUTIVE S.F. 
AIRPORT BAYFRONT 
1640 Old Bayshore Hwy 
Burlingame 
CA 
94010 
VILLA MONTES HOTEL, ASCEND HOTEL 
COLLECTION 
620 El Camino Real 
San Bruno 
CA 
94066 
THE WESTIN S.F. AIRPORT     
1 Old Bayshore Hwy 
Millbrae 
CA 
94030 
ZABALLA HOUSE BED & BREAKFAST 
324 Main St 
Half Moon Bay 
CA 
94019 
Hotel Nia 
200 Independence 
Drive 
Menlo Park 
CA 
94025 
Park James 
1400 El Camino Real 
Menlo Park 
CA 
94025 
Rosewood Sand Hill 
2825 Sand Hill Road 
Menlo Park 
CA 
94025 
367 of 763

--- page 368 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
30 
January 23, 2023 
Stanford Park Hotel 
100 El Camino Real 
Menlo Park 
CA 
94025 
Residence Inn 
555 Glenwood 
Avenue 
Menlo Park 
CA 
94025 
Best Western Plus Riviera 
15 El Camino Real 
Menlo Park 
CA 
94025 
Hotel Lucent 
727 El Camino Real 
Menlo Park 
CA 
94025 
Menlo Park Inn 
1315 El Camino Real 
Menlo Park 
CA 
94025 
Red Cottage Inn  
1704 El Camino Real 
Menlo Park 
CA 
94025 
368 of 763

--- page 369 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
31 
January 23, 2023 
 
APPENDIX 3 – BENEFITS BY BUSINESS CATEGORY 
 
Program 
Service 
Tier 1 
(1.5%) 
Tier 2 
(0.75%) 
General 
Listing on www.thesanfranciscopeninsula.com with link to hotel booking page 
X 
X 
General 
Inclusion in Sales, Marketing and Promotional Opportunities  
X 
X 
General 
Inclusion in SFP's Consumer Brochures 
X 
X 
General 
Access to SFP's research reports and insights 
X 
X 
General 
Represented by SFP at industry conferences and events 
X 
X 
General 
Access to California Hotel Lodging Association's industry advocacy efforts and training 
materials 
X 
X 
Consumer 
Opportunity to participate in Consumer Marketing Campaigns 
X 
X 
Consumer 
Public Relations participation opportunities 
X 
X 
Consumer 
Familiarization Tour (Press and Influencer) Opportunities 
X 
X 
Consumer 
Inclusion Opportunity in Social Media Efforts 
X 
X 
Consumer 
Inclusion Opportunity in Destination Video and Photo Shoots 
X 
X 
Consumer 
New project and special event opportunities 
X 
X 
Travel Trade 
Trade Show Opportunities 
X 
X 
Travel Trade 
Sales Mission Opportunities 
X 
X 
Travel Trade 
Lead Opportunities 
X 
X 
Travel Trade 
Familiarization Tour Leads (Press and Travel Trade) Opportunities 
X 
X 
Meetings 
Lead Distribution 
X 
 
Meetings 
Site Inspections 
X 
 
Meetings 
Convention Services Support 
X 
 
Meetings 
Opportunity to participate in Sales Missions  
X 
 
Meetings 
Opportunity to participate in Client Events 
X 
 
Meetings 
Industry tradeshow participation 
X 
 
Meetings 
Participation in local industry chapter meetings and events 
X 
 
Meetings 
Familiarization Tours 
X 
 
Meetings 
Marketing Campaigns 
X 
 
Meetings 
Inclusion in Meetings Market Brochures  
X 
 
Meetings 
Opportunity for Sponsorship of Group Events 
X 
 
Meetings 
Custom Event Landing Page for Groups: Things To Do Nearby With Your Selected 
Venue (Itinerary) 
X 
 
369 of 763

--- page 370 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
32 
January 23, 2023 
Meetings 
Distribution of hot rates and dates to planners 
X 
 
Meetings 
Co-op advertising opportunities in key meeting publications 
X 
 
Meetings 
Social media mentions/posts promoting groups space 
X 
 
Meetings 
Inclusion on Meeting Planner section of website  
X 
 
Meetings 
Opportunity to be highlighted in meeting planner newsletter 
X 
 
Meetings 
Access to SF Travel group leads via our alliance with SFT 
X 
 
 
 
370 of 763

--- page 371 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
33 
January 23, 2023 
APPENDIX 4 – SMG CONSULTING ANALYSIS 
 
                                                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
371 of 763

--- page 372 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
34 
January 23, 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SF Peninsula 
Tourism Business Improvement District Pro Forma Review 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
372 of 763

--- page 373 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
35 
January 23, 2023 
 
 
Overview 
 
In 2001, the Organization established a Tourism Business Improvement District (TBID) under 
the Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 1989 (’89 Law) and now wishes to convert 
to a Tourism Marketing District (TMD) under the Property and Business Improvement District 
Law of 1994 (’94 Law).   
The organization is moving forward with a Tourism Business Improvement District (TBID) 
transition that will increase its funding above $6 million annually to be available for tourism 
promotion efforts. The TBID contribution is a significant budget increase for the organization. In 
developing the proposal for the TBID renewal and the subsequent approval of the lodging 
industry, the organization staff has prepared a TMD Benefits Proforma to estimate the potential 
return on investment from the new TBID funds. 
 
This staff assessment includes the proposed allocation and use of new funds for different tourism 
promotion efforts (sales, advertising, public relations, social media, etc.)  and the projected return 
on investment for those funds.  
 
Proforma Review 
The TMD Benefits Proforma review includes a review of the staff proforma to check the 
assumptions and estimates and make suggestions and recommendations. 
 
Scope of Work 
 
 The following is a review of the proforma developed for the TBID renewal. The analysis was 
done using the information supplied by The San Francisco Peninsula CVB. Project elements 
include the following: 
 
I. 
DEVELOP SMITH TRAVEL RESEARCH TRENDLINE AND ANNUAL GROWTH RATE FOR LODGING REVENUE. 
DEVELOP MULTI-YEAR FORECAST. 
 
Ø DETERMINE THE PROJECTABLE RATE OF GROWTH. 
 
• REVIEW STAFF DRAFT PROFORMA, INCLUDING ASSUMPTIONS AND FINAL ESTIMATES. 
 
I. COMPARE PROFORMA ESTIMATES WITH TRENDLINE AND ASSESS WITH POTENTIALLY DIFFERENT 
SCENARIOS (HIGH, MEDIUM, AND LOW ESTIMATES). 
 
Limiting Conditions 
The following analysis and estimates are based on the best information and time available. The 
results and opinions provided are a guide for consideration, and we do not claim as to the 
accuracy of the final results. 
373 of 763

--- page 374 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
36 
January 23, 2023 
 
Model Development 
 
We developed an SF Peninsula Tourism Economic Model to develop lodging revenue and room 
night projections with the addition of new properties and the potential of Menlo Park Inclusion. 
The model was developed utilizing the past ten years of monthly lodging data from Smith Travel 
Research. The model measures a variety of economic activities, including the following: 
 
II. LODGING REVENUE PROJECTIONS THROUGH 2027 
III. ROOM NIGHT PROJECTION THROUGH 2027 
IV. TBID REVENUE WITHOUT MENLO PARK 
V. TBID REVENUE WITH MENLO PARK 
VI. TBIB REVENUE WITH NEW PROPERTIES 
VII. TBID REVENUE WITHOUT NEW PROPERTIES. 
 
The SF Peninsula Tourism Economic Model can be adjusted to test or consider different 
scenarios.   
 
Model Methodology 
The future growth of ADR and room nights is using a Bayesian Structural Times Series (BSTS) 
model, a technique for fitting historical data and forecasting future trends (Scott and Varian, 
Predicting the Present with Bayesian Structural Time Series 2013). BSTS was chosen for its 
ability to forecast future trends, including seasonal variation, using robust time series data. In this 
case, data is available in monthly intervals from July 2012. This model was fit by specifying a 
semi-local linear trend. Confidence intervals bound a mean forecast to quantify the degree of 
uncertainty in the future (Scott, Fitting Bayesian structural time series with the bsts R package 
2017).  
Rather than having the pandemic disruption influence the forecasts, only data from July 2012 
through December 2019 was taken as input. Revenue is simply forecast as the product of ADR 
and room nights.  
Given the fact that the STR reports track all cities in San Mateo County, the revenue forecast is 
reduced in proportion to the number of room nights in the TMD (15,699/17,190) or 91.3 percent. 
TMD fee revenue is also forecast in proportion to available rooms, with 42 percent A-level 
property rooms paying 1.5 percent of gross room revenue. The balance is paid by B-level 
property rooms at 0.75 percent.  
Construction of three new B-level properties is underway and will bring 451 rooms online. These 
rooms are assumed to be available from January 2023. There are 533 A-level property rooms and 
338 B-level property rooms in Menlo Park. Potential gross room and TMD fee revenue is 
forecast on the basis of room count proportionality.  
Model Assumptions  
The model forecasts mean values of ADR and room nights along with 2.5 percent confidence 
intervals. This report is based on mean values. By constructing the model in this manner, we are 
374 of 763

--- page 375 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
37 
January 23, 2023 
 
assuming that the conditions supporting ADR and room night growth prior to the pandemic will 
continue from 2023 forward.  
 
 
Sources of variation include the impact of macroeconomic conditions, actual timing of new 
construction (planned and unplanned), promotions and policies such as airline crew waivers.  
 
Model Limitations 
The baseline SF Peninsula Tourism Economic Model provides a static look based on a given set 
of assumptions. Forecasts of future events are inherently uncertain as the recent pandemic 
reminded us. As noted above, the model can be adjusted to estimate specific scenarios in detail in 
which case the relative differences generally provide the most value. 
 
Findings 
 
Table 1 below summarizes Room Nights, Revenue, and Average Daily Rate (ADR) projections. 
 
Table 1: Room Night, Revenue, and Average Daily Rate Projections 2021-2027 
 
A. THE MODEL INCLUDES GROWTH RATE PROJECTIONS FOR EACH OF THOSE CATEGORIES. NOTE THE 
SIGNIFICANT REVENUE GROWTH PROJECTION IN 2022 AND 2023, AFTER WHICH THE GROWTH SLOWS 
DOWN INTO A MORE CONSISTENT PATTERN AFTER 2023. (SEE TABLE 1 ABOVE) 
  
B. THE TMD BENEFITS PROFORMA DEVELOPED BY STAFF HAS LODGING RATES BETWEEN $200 AND $293, 
WHICH IS WITHIN ESTIMATES OR THE PROJECTED AVERAGE DAILY RATE OF THE SF PENINSULA 
TOURISM ECONOMIC MODEL. (SEE TABLE 2) 
 
A. REGARDING TBID REVENUE PROJECTION, THE TMD BENEFITS PROFORMA ANTICIPATES TBID REVENUE 
OF APPROXIMATELY $6M. BASED ON THE SF PENINSULA TOURISM ECONOMIC MODEL'S 
ASSUMPTIONS, TBID COLLECTIONS COULD BE HIGHER STARTING IN 2022 (APPROXIMATELY $8M). (SEE 
TABLE 2) 
 
B. THE MODEL CONSIDERS THE NEW CONSTRUCTION OF HOTELS (451 UNITS) WHICH INCREASES THE 
POTENTIAL TBID REVENUE GENERATION BY APPROXIMATELY $207,000. (SEE TABLE 2) 
 
C. ADDITIONALLY, THE MODEL CONSIDERS THE POTENTIAL ADDITION OF MENLO PARK HOTELS BEING A 
PART OF THE TBID. THE ADDITION OF MENLO PARK HOTELS WOULD INCREASE TBID CONTRIBUTIONS 
BY APPROXIMATELY $638,000 STARTING IN 2023. (SEE TABLE 2)
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
Room nights
3,201,672
3,273,894
3,356,784
3,470,192
3,592,148
3,720,575
3,824,263
RN annual growth
2.3%
2.5%
3.4%
3.5%
3.6%
2.8%
Revenue (thousands)
$430,563
$784,357
$1,053,955
$1,140,669
$1,229,371
$1,335,188
$1,444,536
Rev annual growth
82.2%
34.4%
8.2%
7.8%
8.6%
8.2%
ADR
$134
$240
$314
$329
$342
$359
$378
ADR annual growth
78.2%
31.1%
4.7%
4.1%
4.9%
5.3%
375 of 763

--- page 376 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
38 
January 23, 2023 
 
Table 2: TMD Room Revenue and Fee Projections 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inventory Notes: 
 
Changes in Hotel Inventory 
318 rooms lost to Project Home Key (housing the un-housed) during 2020/2021 
 
Possibly December 15, 2022 or early 2023 
Red Roof Inn, Burlingame  
213 Rooms 
Possibly in 2023 
El Rancho Inn, Millbrae 
219 Rooms 
2023  (Buyer is getting financing together, no set month for demolishing.) 
Holiday Inn Express, Burlingame 
148 Rooms 
Possibly 2023 (Entitlements approved Sept 2022.  No word when developer will start work.)  
Comfort Inn & Suites, South San Francisco 
166 Rooms 
 
 
 
 
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
A rooms
6607
Base Year
Total available
15699
TBID Projection
B rooms
9092
A Revenue
$101,204,557
$330,100,605
$405,089,050
$438,417,832
$472,510,240
$513,181,465
$555,203,395
1.50%
$2,718,068
$4,951,509
$6,076,336
$6,576,267
$7,087,654
$7,697,722
$8,328,141
B Revenue
$249,358,533
$454,256,803
$557,449,620
$603,313,899
$650,229,026
$706,197,349
$764,032,666
0.75%
Total TBID/TMD
$4,588,257
$8,358,435
$10,257,208
$11,101,122
$11,964,371
$12,994,202
$14,058,366
New Construction
New rooms 2023 (B)
451
Total w/new hotels
$10,464,596
$11,325,573
$12,206,276
$13,256,929
$14,342,629
% increase in B
5.0%
Menlo Park
New rooms 2023 (A)
533
% increase in A
8.1%
New rooms 2023 (B)
338
% increase in B
3.5%
Total w/Menlo
$10,895,479
$11,791,907
$12,708,873
$13,802,787
$14,933,191
376 of 763

--- page 377 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
39 
January 23, 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
377 of 763

--- page 378 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
40 
January 23, 2023 
 
 
Appendix 1: San Mateo County Room Revenue 
 
Source: STR Reports and Consulting Team. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$0
$200,000,000
$400,000,000
$600,000,000
$800,000,000
$1,000,000,000
$1,200,000,000
$1,400,000,000
$1,600,000,000
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
Annual San Mateo County Room Revenue
Historic STR Report Values through October 2022 and Forecast 
to 2027
378 of 763

--- page 379 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
41 
January 23, 2023 
 
 
 
Appendix 2: San Mateo County ADR 
 
Source: STR Reports and Consulting Team. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$0
$100
$200
$300
$400
$500
$600
$700
$800
$900
Jul-12
Apr-13
Jan-14
Oct-14
Jul-15
Apr-16
Jan-17
Oct-17
Jul-18
Apr-19
Jan-20
Oct-20
Jul-21
Apr-22
Jan-23
Oct-23
Jul-24
Apr-25
Jan-26
Oct-26
Jul-27
Apr-28
Jan-29
Oct-29
Jul-30
Apr-31
Jan-32
Oct-32
Jul-33
Apr-34
Monthly San Mateo County ADR Forecast to 2034 
Historical
97.5% quantile
Forecast mean
2.5% quantile
379 of 763

--- page 380 ---
SFPTMD Management District Plan 
 
42 
January 23, 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 3: San Mateo County Room Nights 
 
Source: STR Reports and Consulting Team. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
200,000
400,000
600,000
800,000
1,000,000
1,200,000
Jul-12
Apr-13
Jan-14
Oct-14
Jul-15
Apr-16
Jan-17
Oct-17
Jul-18
Apr-19
Jan-20
Oct-20
Jul-21
Apr-22
Jan-23
Oct-23
Jul-24
Apr-25
Jan-26
Oct-26
Jul-27
Apr-28
Jan-29
Oct-29
Jul-30
Apr-31
Jan-32
Oct-32
Jul-33
Apr-34
Monthly San Mateo County Room Night Forecast to 2034 
Historical
97.5% quantile
Forecast mean
2.5% quantile
380 of 763

--- page 381 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  26
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2311
File ID: 23-7600
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Interim City Manager – Appointment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the appointment of Christina Horrisberger as the Interim City Manager.
BACKGROUND:
City Manager Drew Corbett is retiring effective July 1, 2023, and his last official day of employment is scheduled for June 
30, 2023. Following an extensive recruitment process, the City Council is in the process of selecting the next City Manager. 
As the new City Manager is not expected to be appointed prior to Drew Corbett’s retirement, an Interim City Manager will 
need to be appointed by the City Council.  At its May 22nd closed session meeting regarding the recruitment of the new 
City Manager, the City Council directed Drew Corbett to bring forward a recommended appointment of a current 
department head to serve in the role of Interim City Manager.  Drew Corbett recommends the City Council appoint 
Community Development Director Christina Horrisberger as Interim City Manager from July 1, 2023, until a new City 
Manager is appointed. Ms. Horrisberger meets the minimum qualifications for the position of City Manager. 
Pursuant to the City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head, and Deputy Director Compensation Plan, temporary 
assignments to a higher classification are paid at the rate of the higher classification.  This sets the monthly salary for the 
Interim City Manager at $23,655.31 consistent with the City Manager salary approved by council on March 7, 2022.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The associated salary and benefits for the interim assignment can be absorbed within the City's operating budget, and no 
supplemental budget appropriation is required.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
381 of 763

--- page 382 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Director of Human Resources
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
382 of 763

--- page 383 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
APPOINTMENT OF CHRISTINA HORRISBERGER AS INTERIM CITY MANAGER
WHEREAS, City Manager Drew Corbett is retiring and his last official day of employment is scheduled for 
June 30, 2023; and
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to appoint Community Development Director Christina Horrisberger 
as Interim City Manager from July 1, 2023 until a new City Manager is appointed, and the monthly compensation 
for Interim City Manager is $23,655.31.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity 
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).
2.
The City Council appoints Christina Horrisberger as Interim City Manager from July 1, 2023 until a 
new City Manager is appointed.
3.
The City Council establishes the monthly salary for the Interim City Manager at $23,655.31.
383 of 763

--- page 384 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC 
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED 
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION 
OF THE AGENDA PACKET 
384 of 763

--- page 385 ---
From:
Daniel Gilbrech
To:
Clerk
Cc:
Daniel Gilbrech
Subject:
June 5th Consent Calendar Items #26 & #27
Date:
Sunday, June 4, 2023 10:16:23 PM
To All Concerned;
#26:   Why wasn't Ms. Kathy Kleinbaum considered to fill in as interim City
Manager?
Doesn't she have better qualifications to fill this position?
Also, if you choose Ms. Christina Horrisberge, her first month's salary should
deduct $13,000 to pay back our City for her previous decision on 100
Humboldt Appeal.
#27:    Will this letter "as written"  expose our City to more potential litigation and
Liability in the manner it is written?  
Doesn't it expose our sitting Mayor for the acts of all of our Council?   
Also, Shouldn't all of the Council sign the letter since they are all responsible for the
debacle that transpired?  
What does our City Attorney recommend?
Also, Shouldn't all of the Council sign the letter since they are all responsible for
what debacle and for what transpired?  
Sincerely,
Daniel C Gilbrech
San Mateo Resident 
385 of 763

--- page 386 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  27
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-7577
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Letter of Apology – Council Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Review and approve a letter of apology to four members of the community for impacts related to the selection of the 
Mayor and the appointment of the fifth Councilmember in December 2022.
BACKGROUND:
At the May 1, 2023 regular Council meeting, there was an agenda item to discuss the results of the District Attorney's 
investigation into alleged Brown Act violations and vote trading related to the appointment of the fifth Councilmember. As 
a result of this discussion, a majority of Council agreed to write a letter of apology to four individuals impacted by these 
allegations (Cliff Robbins, Joe Goethals, Nicole Fernandez, and David Burruto). Council appointed Deputy Mayor Nash and 
Councilmember Loraine as the sub-committee to draft the letter, which is included as Attachment 1.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact related to this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This letter is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Draft Letter
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
386 of 763

--- page 387 ---
The San Mateo City Council apologizes to Mr. Cliff Robbins, Mr. Joe Goethals, Ms. Nicole Fernandez and Mr. David 
Burruto. In the opinion of this Council, these individuals were subjected to unnecessary reputational harm and distress 
because of improper actions taken by then-Councilmember Amourence Lee at the December 12, 2023 City Council 
meeting.  
 
During the December 12th meeting to appoint the fifth Councilmember, Councilmember Lee said multiple people 
approached her with offers insinuating she could become mayor in return for supporting Mr. Robbins’ candidacy. 
Councilmember Lee claimed that these offers represented a potential Brown Act violation and possible vote trading, 
but she would not reveal who approached her.
If Councilmember Lee had concerns, she should have first fully disclosed the communications and the identities of the 
involved parties to the San Mateo City Attorney, who could have advised her (and, potentially, the Council) on 
appropriate action to take. She did not do this. Instead, at the December 12th Council meeting, Councilmember Lee 
publicly made an unsubstantiated allegation that the process had been tainted, and asked Council to remove Mr. 
Robbins from consideration as a candidate.  
Councilmember Lee’s refusal to fully disclose the communications behind her claims prompted the City Attorney to 
refer the matter to the San Mateo County District Attorney’s office. The office investigated whether certain state laws 
regarding the Brown Act and vote trading may have been violated. During this investigation, Councilmember Lee 
named Mr. Goethals, Ms. Fernandez and Mr. Burruto as the individuals who approached her with alleged vote trading 
offers. The District Attorney’s office found “no basis to conclude there was any violation of the Brown Act nor 
evidence of an illegal attempt to corrupt the voting process.”
It is the opinion of this Council that this public assertion of unsubstantiated claims brought unwarranted harm to the 
reputations of members of our community. This is anathema to the good governance that this Council seeks to 
implement. Mr. Goethals is a former mayor of San Mateo. Ms. Fernandez and Mr. Burruto are former Chairs of the 
San Mateo County Democratic Party. Mr. Robbins is a former Parks and Recreation Commissioner and Vice Chair of 
the San Mateo County Democratic Party. He currently is Chair of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission and 
Chair of the General Plan Subcommittee.
This Council strongly believes that individuals must have the right to freely address their elected officials and advocate 
for their beliefs and positions. In our view, this incident, and others like it, could have a chilling effect on this 
fundamental tenet of democracy. Accordingly, the Council has committed to strengthen its Code of Conduct, and the 
Code of Conduct of its Boards and Commissions, to increase clarity, accountability, and consequences for potential 
future deviations.
The San Mateo City Council therefore offers a sincere apology to Mr. Robbins, Mr. Goethals, Ms. Fernandez and Mr. 
Burruto for the personal and reputational harm done to them by this series of events.  We look forward to learning 
from this and moving forward together, to benefit our community and City.
 
The above statement was approved on June 5, 2023 by a vote of x to y
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
    
CITY COUNCIL
    
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403-1338
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7040
387 of 763

--- page 388 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Martin McTaggart
Subject:
FW: Letter of Apology: Item #27
Date:
Monday, June 5, 2023 1:46:28 PM
 
 
Patrice M. Olds, MMC
City Clerk
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
www.cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
 
From: Lisa Taner 
 
Sent: Monday, June 5, 2023 1:39 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Letter of Apology: Item #27
 
All, 
 
I wanted to thank the Council majority for acknowledging just how much damage has been done due
to Councilmember Lee's antics since last December, and for moving forward to try to start the
healing process.
 
I want to thank Lisa Diaz-Nash and Adam Loraine for writing the apology letter that Mayor Lee
should have written herself.  While I fervently disagree that this should be coming from the Council,
residents can expect nothing from Lee, so you all are left to pick up the pieces for her.  This is, sadly,
the most we can expect.
 
I know everyone wants to move forward to accomplish business - but there really can't be further
healing until Lee's term is over. She just refuses to adjust the jib on her boat and would rather run
aground than 'mea culpa.'  Her continued failures to come forward and accept responsibility for her
actions (without playing victim or asking for apologies to be made to her) have created the current
reality.
 
For the time being, the rest of you have a large and heavy load to haul.  Keep at it.  Looking forward
to seeing your load lighten come January.
 
Sincerely,
 
Lisa Taner
 
 
388 of 763

--- page 389 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Martin McTaggart
Subject:
FW: Letter of Apology
Date:
Monday, June 5, 2023 11:15:22 AM
 
 
Patrice M. Olds, MMC
City Clerk
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
www.cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
 
From: William Cendak 
 
Sent: Sunday, June 4, 2023 7:16 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: 
Subject: Letter of Apology
 
Dear Council Members.
 
After we cut through the "cow pies" we are left with a Mayor who is a complete and utter liar.
The sad part is you all are accepting this fact, shame on her, but also shame on you!
 I think you all need to be recalled and we elect people who are honest, have a sense of
responsibility to the citizens of San Mateo and are not influenced by people from outside our
city. 
Guess what, Scott Wiener and the majority of the state represenitives don't live in San Mateo
and don't really care how they disrupt our city with their "social engineering" agenda. Buy a
clue!
If there are any more secret meetings of the council and outside influencers, we will need to
recall you
immediately, one and all!
 
Sincerely,
 
William J. Cendak
A citizen of San Mateo and a voter
389 of 763

--- page 390 ---
From:
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Subject:
Item #27 on June 5, 2023 Council Meeting
Date:
Sunday, June 4, 2023 9:32:54 PM
This item should be removed from the Consent Calendar since the
indications are that the entire City Council is unlikely to vote in favor.
A Council letter of apology does not go far enough, since the perpetrator of
the falsehoods and all the problems is the one who should be issuing the
apology. Amourence Lee appears incapable of seeing the error of her
ways.
390 of 763

--- page 391 ---
From:
To:
Clerk
Cc:
Subject:
June 5th Consent Calendar Items #26 & #27
Date:
Sunday, June 4, 2023 10:16:23 PM
To All Concerned;
#26:   Why wasn't Ms. Kathy Kleinbaum considered to fill in as interim City
Manager?
Doesn't she have better qualifications to fill this position?
Also, if you choose Ms. Christina Horrisberge, her first month's salary should
deduct $13,000 to pay back our City for her previous decision on 100
Humboldt Appeal.
#27:    Will this letter "as written"  expose our City to more potential litigation and
Liability in the manner it is written?  
Doesn't it expose our sitting Mayor for the acts of all of our Council?   
Also, Shouldn't all of the Council sign the letter since they are all responsible for the
debacle that transpired?  
What does our City Attorney recommend?
Also, Shouldn't all of the Council sign the letter since they are all responsible for
what debacle and for what transpired?  
Sincerely,
Daniel C Gilbrech
San Mateo Resident 
391 of 763

--- page 392 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  28
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 23-7567
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
100 N. Humboldt St. Property Owner Appeal – Statement of Decision 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Statement of Decision granting the property owner’s appeal related to permanent relocation benefits to a tenant 
household who resided at 100 N. Humboldt Street. 
BACKGROUND:
On May 15, 2023, the City Council conducted a hearing on the property owner’s appeal from a notice compelling the 
property owner of 100 N. Humboldt Street to reimburse the City for permanent relocation benefits distributed to a tenant 
household due to unlawful substandard living conditions. The notice was issued pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 7.50 (Property Owner Obligations with Respect to Tenants Displaced from Unsafe or Substandard Units). The City 
Council granted the appeal and directed staff to prepare a written Statement of Decision for its adoption on the consent 
calendar at the June 5, 2023 City Council regular meeting. The written statement explaining the legal and factual basis for 
the Council's decision is included with this report as Attachment 1. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The money used to provide relocation benefits by the City was from the Emergency Relocation Assistance Fund that was 
established to advance tenant assistance in urgent situations.  Because the appeal was granted, the funds provided by the 
City, approximately $13,000, will not be recouped. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Statement of Decision Granting the Appeal
STAFF CONTACT
Prasanna W. Rasiah, City Attorney
Prasiah@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7022
392 of 763

--- page 393 ---
1
Statement of Decision by the San Mateo City Council in the matter of the Property Owner Appeal of the 
Notice to Pay Relocation Benefits
(100 North Humboldt Street)
Section 1. Introduction
San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Section 7.50.030(a) requires property owners to pay for the 
relocation of their tenants when the tenants are displaced by City code enforcement activities in response to 
substandard housing conditions.  SMMC Section 7.50.030(b) specifies instances where tenants are not 
considered displaced due to code enforcement activities, such as when the noncomplying condition(s) was 
created by the tenant household or the tenant’s guests and not created by the property owner, the tenant 
household unreasonably prevented the property owner from undertaking maintenance or repairs that would 
have prevented or rectified the noncomplying condition, or the conditions are solely from damage from an 
earthquake, fire, flood, natural disaster, civil disturbance or accident outside the control of the property owner 
and was not caused by acts or negligence of the property owner or due to pre-existing conditions or violations. 
SMMC Section 7.50.100 provides that property owners may contest a decision regarding relocation payments by 
appealing to the City Council.
In this case, on January 10, 2023, City Code Enforcement staff received a complaint of non-functional 
heaters, roof leaks, collapsed portions of ceiling in the kitchen and hallway, rats entering the home through 
holes in the roof and ceiling, and a lack of hot water reaching the kitchen sink and a bathroom shower at 100 
North Humboldt Street (the Property).  On January 13, 2023, Code Enforcement staff inspected the Property and 
observed numerous substandard conditions.  On January 26, 2023, staff subsequently issued a notice detailing 
eight (8) immediate life and safety conditions and 14 additional violations as a basis for requiring Trina Pierce 
(Property Owner) to correct the substandard conditions by February 27, 2023, requiring the Property to be 
vacated by January 30, 2023, and to pay the displaced tenants relocation benefits in the amount of $13,849 
(“Notice”).  The Property Owner and her attorney immediately contacted the City, at which point the City 
suspended the Notice pending further internal review and investigation.  
On January 30, 2023, City staff including Code Enforcement and Building staff, reinspected the Property.  
City Building staff determined the Property was uninhabitable and subsequently red-tagged the residence.  On 
January 31, 2023, the City received documentation from Property Owner’s attorney contesting the Notice and 
asserting the substandard conditions were generally created by the tenants, the Property Owner did not have 
notice of any of the substandard conditions, and the tenants’ complaints were motivated by a pending eviction.  
After a review of the most recent inspection, and documentation received from the Property Owner, the City 
amended its Notice detailing 10 immediate life safety conditions and 15 additional violations as a basis for 
requiring the Property Owner to correct the substandard conditions by February 27, 2023, requiring the 
Property to be immediately vacated, and to pay the tenants relocation benefits in the amount of $12,736.   Due 
to the red-tag and need to immediately vacate the residence, the City advanced relocation benefits to the 
tenant household as authorized by SMMC Section 7.50.070. The Property Owner appealed the Amended Notice, 
and after conducting a hearing on the matter, the City Council granted the appeal and directed staff to return to 
the Council with a Statement of Decision for formal adoption. 
SMMC Section 7.50.100(c)(1) requires, in relevant part, that “the City Council shall issue a written 
decision to uphold or cancel all or part of the decision, order, or determination regarding relocation benefits… 
and shall state the reasons for that decision,” and that “[t]he decision of the City Council shall include findings 
regarding the evidence in the record and submitted at the hearing, as well as the existence of any proper 
grounds for the order to pay relocation benefits or the notice of penalty or fine.” This statement of decision is 
393 of 763

--- page 394 ---
2
issued pursuant to these requirements.
Section 2. Applicable Law 
SMMC Section 7.50.030 provides, in relevant part, as follows:
a)
A tenant household shall be eligible for relocation payments from a property owner under this chapter if 
the tenant household is displaced from its dwelling or room due to the City's code enforcement 
activities. For purposes of this chapter, a tenant household shall be deemed to be displaced from its 
dwelling or room due to code enforcement activities in either of the following circumstances: 
1. 
The tenant household vacates its dwelling or room (whether or not the property owner requires 
vacation) after (a) the City or a court has issued a notice to vacate, notice to abate life-
threatening condition, or declaration of substandard condition covering that dwelling or room, 
and (b) the abatement period has expired without correction of the noncomplying condition (if a 
time period to abate the noncomplying condition is specified in such notice or declaration and 
the City or court does not order earlier vacation).
…
b)
Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, pursuant to subsection (b), a tenant household shall not be 
deemed displaced due to code enforcement activities in any of the following cases:
…
2.
The property owner demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Director that the noncomplying 
condition was created by the tenant household or the tenant household's guests or invitees, and 
was not created by the property owner or the property owner's agent, or that the condition 
giving rise to the code enforcement activities existed at the time that the tenant household 
occupied the dwelling or room and that the tenant household occupied the dwelling or room for 
the purpose of receiving relocation benefits;
3. 
The property owner demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Director that the tenant household 
unreasonably prevented the property owner or the property owner's agent from undertaking 
maintenance or repairs that would have prevented or rectified the noncomplying condition; or
…
7.
The tenant household is required to vacate the dwelling or room due solely to damage resulting 
from an earthquake, fire, flood, natural disaster, civil disturbance, or accident outside the 
control of the property owner, if (a) the vacation is required within six months of such event, 
and (b) the property owner demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Director that such damage 
was not caused by the acts or the negligence of the property owner or by a preexisting condition 
in the building in violation of applicable building, housing, fire, or other health and safety codes.
SMMC Section 7.50.070 provides, in relevant part, as follows:
(a) The City, in its sole discretion and subject to funding availability, may make any of the payments 
required of a property owner under this chapter, including advancing eligible tenant household(s) 
reimbursable "moving expenses" and "temporary housing accommodations costs" as each of these 
terms are defined below in section 7.50.090(b). Such payments shall continue to be an obligation of the 
property owner and shall be reimbursed by the property owner to the City. The City may consider 
making such payments in its own discretion or if a tenant household makes a written request to the 
Department following a property owner's failure to pay the required payments within the period 
mandated under section 7.50.060, but in no event later than sixty (60) days following the tenant 
394 of 763

--- page 395 ---
3
household's vacation of the dwelling or room. Prior to any City payment to a tenant household, the 
Director shall make a determination regarding the eligibility of the tenant household for relocation 
payments. The Department will make reasonable efforts to contact a representative of the property 
owner prior to making the determination or authorizing the City's payment. However, failure to give 
prior notice to the property owner shall not relieve the property owner of any obligations under this 
chapter.
…
SMMC Section 7.50.020 provides as follows:
“Permanent displacement” means the vacating of a dwelling or room by a tenant household due to code 
enforcement activities when that dwelling or room (or an equivalent dwelling or room in the building or 
complex), in the judgment of the Enforcement Officer, cannot foreseeably be brought into code compliance or 
will not otherwise be available for re-occupancy by the tenant household within ninety (90) days from the date 
of vacating; or when the tenant household and the property owner have agreed that the displacement shall be 
permanent.
"Temporary displacement" means the vacating of a dwelling or room by a tenant household due to code 
enforcement activities when that dwelling or room (or an equivalent dwelling or room in the same building or 
complex) will foreseeably be brought into code compliance and be available for re-occupancy by the tenant 
household within ninety (90) days from the date of vacating; or when the tenant household and property owner 
have otherwise agreed that the displacement shall be considered temporary.
"Tenant household" means one or more individuals who rent or lease a dwelling or room as their 
primary residence and who share living expenses.
Section 3. Evidence Presented
At the hearing on this matter, City staff presented documentary evidence and testimony to establish the 
following:
a)
The Property is a three-bedroom single family home with 10 occupants listed on the lease 
agreement, not including an unknown number of children (collectively “Tenants” or “Tenant 
Household”).  
b)
On January 10, 2023, Code Enforcement staff received a complaint of substandard conditions 
existing at the Property consisting of non-functional heaters, roof leaks for over one year and tarp 
being used instead of repairs, collapsed portions of ceiling in the kitchen and hallway, rats entering 
the home through holes in the roof and ceiling, and a lack of hot water reaching the kitchen sink and 
a bathroom shower despite the Property Owner replacing the water heater.
c)
On January 13, 2023, Code Enforcement staff inspected the Property and observed the following 
immediate life safety conditions:
1.
Visible mold in both the walls and ceilings located in the bathroom and in two bedrooms.
2.
Lack of hot water reaching the minimum temperature of 110 degrees.
3.
Lack of required heat in the dwelling.
4.
Multiple electrical hazards throughout the house.
395 of 763

--- page 396 ---
4
5.
Multiple ceiling and roof holes causing water leaks and damage throughout the dwelling.
6.
Lack of required smoke detectors in the entire dwelling.
7.
Rodents/pests in the dwelling.
8.
Termite damage.
On January 26, 2023, Code Enforcement subsequently issued a Warning Letter to Abate a Public 
Nuisance and Declaration of Substandard Dwelling Condition and Notice to Vacate (“Notice”) to the 
Property Owner detailing the observed substandard conditions requiring compliance by February 
27, 2023, ordering vacation of the residence by January 30, 2023, and ordering the Property Owner 
to pay the tenants permanent relocation benefits in the amount of $13,849 because the Property 
could not foreseeably be brought into code compliance within 90 days from the date of the Notice 
due to the extensive violations.  
d)
After discussions with the Property Owner and her attorney, Code Enforcement staff suspended the 
Notice pending further review and investigation.
e)
On January 30, 2023, Code Enforcement and Building staff re-inspected the Property and observed 
the following immediate life safety conditions: 
1.
Visible mold in both the walls and ceilings located in the bathroom and in two bedrooms.
2.
Lack of hot water reaching the minimum temperature of 110 degrees.
3.
Lack of required heat in the dwelling.
4.
Multiple electrical hazards throughout the house.
5.
Multiple ceiling and roof holes causing water leaks and damage throughout the dwelling.
6.
Lack of required smoke detectors in the entire dwelling.
7.
Rodents/pests in the dwelling.
8.
Termite damage.
9.
Inadequate light and ventilation.
10. Possible gas leaking from kitchen appliance.
Due to these conditions, Building staff determined the Property was uninhabitable and subsequently 
issued a red-tag prohibiting any entry and occupation of the Property.
f)
On January 31, 2023, Code Enforcement staff received a letter and corresponding documentation 
from the Property Owner’s attorney alleging the substandard conditions were generally created by 
the tenants, the Property Owner did not have notice of any of the substandard conditions, and the 
tenants’ complaints were motivated by a pending eviction.
g)
On February 1, 2023, the City issued an Amended Notice detailing the observed immediate life 
safety conditions observed during the reinspection on January 31, 2023, and requiring the Property 
Owner to correct all substandard conditions by February 27, 2023, requiring the Property to be 
immediately vacated, and to pay the tenants permanent relocation benefits in the amount of 
396 of 763

--- page 397 ---
5
$12,736.
h)
On February 3, 2023, the City advanced permanent relocation benefits to the tenant household due 
to their need to immediately vacate the Property in the following amounts:
1.
The HUD rate for a three-bedroom unit for three months ($3,912 x 3) = $11,736.
2.
An immediate vacation allowance of $1,000.
3.
The total sum of the permanent relocation costs in the amount of $12,736.
i)
On February 9, 2023, the Property Owner appealed the Amended Notice.  This same day, a permit 
for a new roof was issued.  
j)
From February 13 through February 24, 2023, the City engaged in discussions with the Property 
Owner in an attempt to resolve the matter.
k)
The City has granted multiple extensions, but the Property remains non-compliant due to various 
substandard conditions.
l)
The replaced water heater, which was initially installed without a permit, has received a permit.
m) On April 17, 2023, the City issued a Final Notice to Abate a Public Nuisance again requiring 
submission of a mold report from a certified Environmental Hygienist, to cease all unpermitted 
construction (including demolition), and to schedule an inspection with Code Enforcement.
n)
On April 21, 2023, the City received a mold report, dated March 8, 2023, from the Property Owner 
confirming the presence of mold and mold abatement recommendations.
o)
On May 5, 2023, the City reinspected the Property and found ongoing unpermitted work occurring.
p)
On May 9, 2023, the City issued a Stop Work Notice due to the unpermitted work.
q)
For purposes of the Appeal Hearing, the City pursued reimbursement for permanent relocation 
benefits advanced to the Tenants related to the following uninhabitable conditions:
1.
Visible mold on walls and ceilings of the bathroom and two bedrooms.
2.
Lack of hot water reaching 110 degrees.
3.
Lack of required hearing in the dwelling.
4.
Multiple ceiling and roof holes causing water leaks and damage throughout the dwelling.
5.
Rodents/pests in dwelling.
Section 4. Defenses Asserted
At the hearing on this matter, the Property Owner argued that she was not required to pay the Tenants 
any permanent relocation costs on the following grounds:
a)
The Property was in good condition when the Tenants moved in and the Property Owner responded 
appropriately to needed repairs.
b)
The Tenants were responsible for damage to the Property.
397 of 763

--- page 398 ---
6
c)
The Property Owner was not made aware of the uninhabitable conditions described in the Notice.
d)
The Tenants actively concealed the uninhabitable conditions described in the Notice from the 
Property Owner. 
e)
The Property Owner appropriately addressed the roof leaks and was in the process of having the 
roof repaired. 
f)
The Tenants were motivated by a pending eviction, and their complaints and submitted evidence 
was not credible due to this fact.
g)
The City should have considered the pending eviction when reviewing the weight of the evidence.
h)
The City should have been more communicative with the Property Owner when it issued the Notice 
and Amended Notice.
Section 5. Findings of Fact
Based upon the evidence presented at the hearing on this matter, the City Council makes the following 
findings of fact:
a)
The Property is a three-bedroom single family home with ten adult occupants, and an unknown 
number of children.
b)
On October 26, 2022, the Property Owner received a quote for a new roof and was in the planning 
stages of repairing the roof.  The Property Owner’s temporary patches to the dwelling and use of a 
tarp to cover the roof were adequate mitigation measures to address a leaking roof and collapsed 
portions of ceiling pending scheduling of a permanent repair.
c)
On November 17, 2022, the Property Owner served a 60-day notice to vacate to the Tenants.
d)
On January 10, 2023, Code Enforcement staff received a complaint of substandard conditions 
existing at the Property consisting of non-functional heaters, roof leaks for over one year and tarp 
being used instead of repairs, collapsed portions of ceiling in the kitchen and hallway, rats entering 
the home through holes in the roof and ceiling, and a lack of hot water reaching the kitchen sink and 
a bathroom shower despite the Property Owner replacing the water heater.
e)
On January 13, 2023, Code Enforcement staff inspected the Property and observed the following 
immediate life safety conditions:
1.
Visible mold in both the walls and ceilings located in the bathroom and in two bedrooms.
2.
Lack of hot water reaching the minimum temperature of 110 degrees.
3.
Lack of required heat in the dwelling.
4.
Multiple electrical hazards throughout the house.
5.
Multiple ceiling and roof holes causing water leaks and damage throughout the dwelling.
6.
Lack of required smoke detectors in the entire dwelling.
7.
Rodents/pests in the dwelling.
8.
Termite damage.
398 of 763

--- page 399 ---
7
On January 26, 2023, Code Enforcement subsequently issued a Warning Letter to Abate a Public 
Nuisance and Declaration of Substandard Dwelling Condition and Notice to Vacate to the Property 
(“Notice”) Owner detailing the observed substandard conditions requiring compliance by February 
27, 2023, ordering vacation of the residence by January 30, 2023, and ordering the Property Owner 
to pay the tenants permanent relocation benefits in the amount of $13,849 because the Property 
could not foreseeably be brought into code compliance within 90 days from the date of the Notice 
due to the extensive violations.  
f)
From January 13 through January 26, 2023, Code Enforcement staff did not contact the Property 
Owner.
g)
From January 26 through January 31, 2023, Code Enforcement staff discussed the Notice with the 
Property Owner and Property Owner’s attorney.
h)
On January 30, 2023, Code Enforcement and Building staff re-inspected the Property and observed 
the following immediate life safety conditions: 
1.
Visible mold in both the walls and ceilings located in the bathroom and in two bedrooms.
2.
Lack of hot water reaching the minimum temperature of 110 degrees.
3.
Lack of required heat in the dwelling.
4.
Multiple electrical hazards throughout the house.
5.
Multiple ceiling and roof holes causing water leaks and damage throughout the dwelling.
6.
Lack of required smoke detectors in the entire dwelling.
7.
Rodents/pests in the dwelling.
8.
Termite damage.
9.
Inadequate light and ventilation.
10. Possible gas leaking from kitchen appliance.
Due to these conditions, Building staff determined the Property was uninhabitable and subsequently 
issued a red-tag prohibiting any entry and occupation of the Property.
i)
On January 31, 2023, Code Enforcement staff received a letter and corresponding documentation 
from the Property Owner’s attorney alleging the substandard conditions were generally created by 
the tenants, the Property Owner did not have notice of any of the substandard conditions, and the 
tenants’ complaints were motivated by a pending eviction.
j)
On February 1, 2023, the City issued an Amended Notice detailing the observed immediate life 
safety conditions observed during the reinspection on January 31, 2023, and requiring the Property 
Owner to correct all substandard conditions by February 27, 2023, requiring the Property to be 
immediately vacated, and to pay the tenants permanent relocation benefits in the amount of 
$12,736.
k)
On February 3, 2023, the City advanced permanent relocation benefits to the tenant household due 
to their need to immediately vacate the Property in the following amounts:
399 of 763

--- page 400 ---
8
1.
The HUD rate for a three-bedroom unit for three months ($3,912 x 3) = $11,736.
2.
An immediate vacation allowance of $1,000.
3.
The total sum of the permanent relocation costs in the amount of $12,736.
l)
On February 9, 2023, the Property Owner appealed the Amended Notice.  
m) For purposes of the Appeal Hearing, the City pursued reimbursement for permanent relocation 
benefits advanced to the Tenants related to the following uninhabitable conditions:
1.
Visible mold on walls and ceilings of the bathroom and two bedrooms.
2.
Lack of hot water reaching 110 degrees.
3.
Lack of required hearing in the dwelling.
4.
Multiple ceiling and roof holes causing water leaks and damage throughout the dwelling.
5.
Rodents/pests in dwelling.
n)
The City should have been communicative with the Property Owner between January 13 through 
January 26, 2023 when initially determining whether the Tenants were eligible for relocation 
benefits.
Section 6. Conclusion
Based upon the findings above, the City Council, by a 3-1 vote, grants the appeal of the Property Owner 
and finds the Property Owner is not required to reimburse the City for permanent relocation benefits advanced 
to the Tenants in the amount of $12,736.  
Section 7. 
The parties to this proceeding are informed that the time within which judicial review of this decision 
may be sought is governed by Section 1094.6 of the California Code of Civil Procedure.
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Date
400 of 763

--- page 401 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC 
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED 
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION 
OF THE AGENDA PACKET 
401 of 763

--- page 402 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Martin McTaggart
Subject:
FW: Support Red-tag ordinance of 2019
Date:
Monday, June 5, 2023 11:25:32 AM
 
 
Patrice M. Olds, MMC
City Clerk
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
www.cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
 
From: Denise Black 
 
Sent: Monday, June 5, 2023 11:20 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Support Red-tag ordinance of 2019
 
Please reverse yourselves and deny the landlord appeal in the case of the Latino family as described
in Rudy Espinoza Murray’s column in The Daily Journal, June 5, 2023. The landlord permitted, nay
assured, unsafe and unsanitary conditions by not providing basic human right necessities like hit
water and heat. The landlord should be cited and arrested and be made to return the tenant’s rent
since 2018, when Google Maps images prove owner gross negligence. More proof followed. 
 
Denise Black
 
--
402 of 763

--- page 403 ---
From:
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Cc:
Clerk
Subject:
Item # 28 tonight"s regular council meeting
Date:
Monday, June 5, 2023 8:22:52 AM
Dear All,
After looking at the facts of this case at 100 North Humboldt st. I feel the Council wrongly decided to not
assess the relocation costs onto the Landlord based on the simple facts that the bulk of the serious
defects at the property were beyond the control of the tenants. Please uphold the letter and spirit of our
Red Tag ordinance and reconsider this decision.
Thanks all
Mike Caggiano
Resident of the North Central area of San Mateo
403 of 763

--- page 404 ---
From:
Peninsula People Power
To:
Clerk
Cc:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
100 N Humboldt St. Statement of Appeal
Date:
Monday, June 5, 2023 3:59:35 PM
Dear City Council,
We recently learned about a troubling situation in San Mateo where a Latino family of 10 (not
including the children) was living in unsafe conditions. The family contacted the City after a
portion of the ceiling collapsed. City officials inspected the property and discovered 22 code
violations – 10 of which were life-safety violations – including no heat, no hot water, a
compromised roof and significant mold.
The city quickly acted in accordance with their red-tag ordinance passed in 2019, issuing a
notice to vacate and providing the tenants with relocation assistance. The city then sent the
property owner a bill for reimbursement of the displacement benefits provided to the tenants.
The property owner appealed the bill, alleging that the code violations were caused by the
tenants. The property owner provided no evidence that the tenants caused the lack of heat and
hot water, roof damage or environmental mold. On the other hand, the tenants asserted that the
property was rented without heat and provided communications demonstrating they had raised
concerns about the 37 year old roof as early as 2020. Google Street View images from 2018
clearly show damage to the exterior of the roof. The property owner obtained an estimate to
replace the roof in October 2022 but never proceeded with the work. The owner replaced the
water heater in May 2022, but the work was completed without a permit and the tenants said it
did not work reliably. City inspectors found the air and water temperature were both about
60℉.
As you know, Council voted to grant the property owner’s appeal by a vote of 3-1. Deputy
Mayor Nash was not convinced the life-safety violations were caused by the owner.
Councilmember Hedges said that the owner placing tarps on the roof was sufficient mitigation,
and that it was probably hard to find a roofer to complete the repairs. Councilmember
Newsom said “without a doubt" there was negligence with regards to the roof that warranted
red-tagging the property and relocating the tenants, but voted to grant the appeal anyway.
We strongly disagree with the City Council’s decision and believe it sets a dangerous
precedent. We worry that the most vulnerable residents living in uninhabitable conditions will
hesitate to raise concerns to their landlords or the city, for fear of displacement without
assistance.
We urge the Council to reconsider their decision, and act to protect the 46% of San Mateo
residents that are renters from irresponsible and negligent landlords. The red-tag ordinance is a
critical safety net for renters trapped in unsafe conditions and it must not be weakened.
Respectfully,
Peninsula People Power
REACH Coalition of San Mateo County
404 of 763

--- page 405 ---
California Democratic Renters Council
405 of 763

--- page 406 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  29
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 72-4674
File ID: 23-7465
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Sewer Rate Increase for Fiscal Years 2023-24 to 2027-28 – Ordinance Introduction
RECOMMENDATION:
Conduct a public hearing, and if there is a determination that a majority protest does not exist, introduce an ordinance to 
establish maximum sewer rates effective August 1, 2023 through June 30, 2028 pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 3.54.030 “Sewer Service Charges.” 
BACKGROUND:
Council establishes rates sufficient to pay for sewer collection and treatment operating expenses, debt service, and capital 
improvement needs. On March 5, 2018, Council adopted a multi-year sewer rate increase and rate restructure for fiscal 
years 2018-19 through 2022-23, which included moving from charging solely based on volumetric usage to a hybrid 
volumetric/fixed-fee structure to help stabilize revenue. The multi-year rate increase and fee restructuring allowed the 
City to finance the Clean Water Program (CWP), a $1B capital intensive 10-year effort that began in 2015 to comply with a 
Regional Water Quality Control Board Cease and Desist Order and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit 
requirements. 
The CWP consists of a series of projects that upgrade and replace aging infrastructure, increase system capacity to prevent 
sanitary sewer overflows, and are designed to meet current and future regulatory requirements for wastewater 
treatment. The sewer rates have funded operating costs and the CWP through cash, bonds, and loans. Low-interest federal 
Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) and State Revolving Fund loans were obtained, saving rate payers 
millions of dollars and reducing the need for higher future rate increases. 
During an April 2022 study session, Council supported a multi-year sewer rate schedule consisting of inflationary-level 
increases to ensure sufficient ongoing revenue to fund operating and maintenance costs and capital improvement 
projects. Following the study session, staff worked with the City’s sewer rate consultant, Bartle Wells, to determine 
recommended sewer rates for meeting the City’s ongoing needs. At an April 3, 2023 study session, Council provided 
feedback on a proposed five-year inflationary sewer rate structure, up to a maximum 3% increase each year for fiscal years 
2023-24 through 2027-28. Council also provided feedback on a draft Proposition 218 Notice of proposed sewer rate 
increases.
Proposition 218 Compliance
Increases to the City’s sewer service charges must comply with Article XIIID of the California Constitution (Proposition 218). 
Proposition 218 imposes various requirements regarding the procedures the City must follow to increase its sewer service 
fees as well as substantive limitations on the sewer service charges. Proposition 218 requires the City to mail a written 
notice of any proposed sewer rate increases to affected property owners at least 45 days prior to a scheduled public 
hearing, during which time property owners may submit written protests opposing proposed rate increases. 
406 of 763

--- page 407 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The Proposition 218 Notice (Attachment 2) was mailed to 27,103 property owners on April 13, 2023, allowing for a 53-day 
protest period. The notification informed property owners of the hearing date on which the proposed maximum rate 
increases would be considered by the Council. The notice also instructed property owners on how, when, and where to 
submit protests. 
As described in the notice, a valid protest must be presented in writing and received prior to the end of the public hearing 
and include the required information.  At the end of the public hearing, the City Clerk will tally and report the qualifying 
written protests. The Council will then determine whether the written protests opposing the proposed rate increases 
exceeds the fifty (50) percent threshold required to constitute a majority protest. 
If there is not a majority protest on the proposed rate increases, Council may proceed to introduce the proposed 
ordinance (Attachment 1) to amend sewer rates. A second reading and adoption of the ordinance would then occur on 
June 20, 2023 to establish the new sewer service rates for fiscal years 2023-24 to 2027-28. The rates adopted by Council 
may not exceed the maximum rates shown in Attachment 1. The proposed rate adjustment for fiscal years 2023-24 will 
become effective August 1, 2023.  Rate adjustments for fiscal years 2024-25 to 2027-28 would be effective July 1st of each 
fiscal year.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed rate increases for the fiscal years 2023-24 to 2027-28 are calculated based on the projected revenue 
requirements to provide sewer service and cover the City’s costs, including debt service, required reserves, and future 
capital expenditures. The actual revenue to be generated will not be known until the rate is set and complete water data is 
available and analyzed. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4), the adoption of this ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, 
because the sewer service charge is a funding mechanism for the City Sewer operations and capital projects.
NOTICE PROVIDED
Notice of the proposed maximum increase in the sewer rates and the June 5, 2023 public hearing was mailed to all 
property owners on April 13, 2023.  This meets the 45-day notification requirement. Pursuant to Government Code Section 
6062a, notice of this public hearing was published twice in a newspaper, on May 24, 2023, and May 31, 2023, respectively.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 – Proposition 218 Notice of Proposed Sewer Rate Increase
Att 3 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
407 of 763

--- page 408 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
ESTABLISHING SEWER SERVICE CHARGES FOR FISCAL YEARS 2023-2024 THROUGH 2027-2028
WHEREAS, the procedures set forth in California Constitution Article XIII D, Section 6 for property-
related fees, enacted by Proposition 218, apply to sewer service charge increases; and
WHEREAS, a sewer service charge is a property-related fee for each parcel’s attributable use of the 
sanitary sewer collection and treatment systems in the City (“Sewer Service Charge”); and
WHEREAS, the City is following the procedures set forth in Article XIII D, Section 6 for the proposed 
Sewer Service Charge increase; and
WHEREAS, notice of the proposed Sewer Service Charge increase was mailed to ratepayers and property 
owners on April 13, 2023, 53 days prior to the scheduled public hearing on the proposed increase; and
WHEREAS, on June 5, 2023, a public hearing was held at 7:00 p.m. in the San Mateo City Hall Council 
Chambers, located at 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo regarding the proposed Sewer Service Charge increase, 
at which all protests against the rate increase and other comments were considered; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.54.030 provides that the City Council shall establish the 
Sewer Service Charge by ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. In accordance with California Constitution Article XIII D, Section 6, the City Council finds that:
(a) The revenues derived from the Sewer Service Charge do not exceed the funds required to provide 
sewer service because the rate increase is needed to fund ongoing sewer system operation and maintenance 
and meet capital expenditures.
(b) The revenues derived from the Sewer Service Charge will not be used for any purpose other than the 
provision of sewer service.
(c) The Sewer Service Charge will not exceed the cost of sewer service attributable to each parcel.
(d) The Sewer Service Charge is only charged for sewer service that is actually used by or currently 
available to the parcel in question.
(e) The Sewer Service Charge pays for the provision of sewer service and not for general governmental 
services.
Section 2. Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.54.030, the maximum sewer service charge for Fiscal 
Years 2023-2024 through 2027-2028 is established as follows:
408 of 763

--- page 409 ---
Effective Date
Current 
Rate
Aug 1 
2023
July 1 
2024
July 1 
2025
July 1 
2026
July 1 
2027
Residential
Fixed Monthly Charge (Charge per dwelling unit)
$60.14
$61.94
$63.80
$65.71
$67.68
$69.71
Sewer Usage Charge (Rate per hundred cubic feet ($/CCF) of annualized average monthly winter water use)
Class A Residential
$11.80
$12.15
$12.51
$12.89
$13.28
$13.68
Commercial
Sewer Usage Charge (Rate per hundred cubic feet ($/CCF) of annualized average monthly winter water use)
Class B Standard Strength
$23.60
$24.31
$25.04
$25.79
$26.56
$27.36
Class C Moderate Strength
$31.00
$31.93
$32.89
$33.88
$34.90
$35.95
Class D High Strength
$42.04
$43.30
$44.60
$45.94
$47.32
$48.74
Class E
A limited number of accounts are billed on a case-by-case basis based on 
sewer rates in effect.
Minimum Monthly Charge (Commercial bills are subject to the minimum monthly charge)
$60.14
$61.94
$63.80
$65.71
$67.68
$69.71
Section 3. Pursuant to San Mateo County requirements, the City Council authorizes collection of the Sewer 
Service Charge, which shall be billed on the real property tax rolls for Fiscal Year 2023-2024 through 2027-2028, 
with the actual total to be updated for the County rolls when the calculation process is completed each year.
Section 4. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15378(b)(4), introduction and adoption of this Ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA 
because the Sewer Service Charge is a funding mechanism for the City sewer operations and capital projects 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project that may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment.
Section 5. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 6. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
409 of 763

--- page 410 ---
Comments and Written Protests
Any affected property owner may submit a
written protest to the proposed increase to
the sewer rates; provided, however, only
one protest will be counted per parcel. Each
protest must (1) be in writing; (2) state that
the identified property owner opposes the
proposed increases to the sewer rates; (3)
identify the parcel for which the protest is
made (by assessor’s parcel number or street
address); and (4) include the signature of the
property owner. Protests submitted by e-mail,
facsimile, or other electronic means will not be
counted. Written protests may be submitted by
mail to the City Clerk at 330 W. 20th Avenue,
San Mateo, CA 94403 or at the public hearing,
so long as the protests are received before
the public hearing ends. Please identify on
the envelope for any written protest, whether
mailed or submitted in person to the City Clerk,
that the enclosed written protest is for the Public
Hearing on the Proposed Sewer Rate Increase.
Notice of Public Hearing
on Proposed Sewer Rate
Increases
This notice is being sent to inform you that the
City of San Mateo is proposing to increase
sewer rates over the next five years in order
to a) continue constructing a new wastewater
treatment plant to replace the City’s aging
treatment facility, b) fund legally-required
improvements to the City’s sewer collection
system to address regulatory requirements and
minimize potential for sanitary sewer overflows,
c) fund ongoing rehabilitation of aging sewer
pipelines, and d) keep rates aligned with the
cost of providing sewer service for fiscal year
(FY) 2023-24 to FY 2027-28. The rates reflect
maximum annual rates over the five-year
period.
During the public hearing, the City Council
will hear all public testimony and consider
all written protests. At the conclusion of the
public hearing, the City Council will decide
whether to adopt the proposed sewer rates.
Oral comments at the public hearing will not
qualify as formal protests unless accompanied
by a written protest, but the City welcomes
your input. If, at the end of the public hearing,
written protests against the proposed increases
to the sewer rates are not presented by a
majority of affected property owners of the
identified parcels, the City Council will be
authorized to adopt the rates.
In compliance with Article XIIID of the California
State Constitution and the Proposition 218
Omnibus Implementation Act, the City is
notifying all affected property owners of a
Public Hearing to accept public comment
& testimony on the proposed sewer rate
increases:
Date: June 5, 2023 at 7:00 p.m.
San Mateo City Hall,
Council Chambers
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Need More Information? Please visit our
website, CleanWaterProgramSanMateo.org.
For questions, call (650) 727-6870 or email info@
CleanWaterProgramSanMateo.org.
410 of 763

--- page 411 ---
The City’s current sewer rates for a typical residential
customer are in the middle range compared to other
regional agencies in San Mateo County. The rates for fiscal
years 2023-24 through 2027-28 reflect the maximum annual
rate increase proposed under this Proposition 218 notice.
The City will review the rates each year and determine the
actual annual increase up to these maximums.
Why the Rate Increases Are Needed
Methodology Used to Calculate the Proposed Rates
Specifically, the proposed rate increases will enable the City
to generate the funding needed to:
• Continue construction and long-term financing of the City’s
aging wastewater treatment plant
The proposed sewer rates are based on a cost-of-service
analysis that includes a) financial projections to identify future
wastewater system funding needs, and b) apportionment
of costs and development of rates for each customer class
based on factors including the volume and strength of
wastewaterdischarge.
The City’s existing wastewater treatment plant includes
several facilities which have reached the end of useful life.
The treatment plant is being rebuilt to ensure the City can
continue to provide high-quality service and meet new
regulatoryrequirements to protect San Francisco Bay.
Approved sewer rates for 2023-24 would be effective August
1 and effective July 1 for each subsequent fiscal year under
the proposed rate structure. Please note sewer charges for
most customers are billed annually on the property tax bill.
The proposed rates are designed to recover the costs of
providing sewer service to each parcel.
Proposed Sewer Rates
• Construct critical improvements to the City’s sewer
collection system to meet regulatory requirements, prevent
sanitary sewer overflows, and replace aging pipelines
The City needs to address increased regulatory
Sample Bill Calculations
The following table shows current and proposed sewer
rates. Residential rates include two components:
Sample Residential Monthly Sewer Charge
Effective August 1, 2023
1) A Fixed Monthly Charge per residential dwelling unit that is
billed independent of usage, and 2) Sewer Usage Charges
billed based on metered water usage. Commercial and non-
residential customers will continue to be billed Sewer Usage
Charges based on customer class and metered usage,
subject to a minimum charge. Residential and commercial
Sewer Usage Charges are based on metered water usage
from the preceding November through March time period
(when there is minimal outdoor irrigation) and levied per
hundred cubic feet (CCF). One CCF equals approximately
748 gallons.
requirements and issues associated with sanitary sewer
overflow prevention, including construction of relief sewer
lines and facilities necessary to prevent overflows during
heavy rains, as well as increased cleaning, inspection, and
rehabilitation of the existing collection system.
The following shows how the sewer service charge would be
calculated for a typical Class A residential dwelling unit with 5
CCF average monthly winter water use:
Nov
5
Dec
6
Jan
4
Feb
4
Mar
6
Average
5.0
• Keep rates aligned with the cost of providing service
Pay for the increases in annual operating and maintenance
expenses required to meet the City’s regulatory permit
requirements, fund increasing annual debt service
requirements, and keep revenues aligned with the costs of
providing wastewater service.
Water Use (CCF)
Bill Calculation
Fixed
Monthly
Charge
Sewer Usage Charge
Total Monthly Charge
$61.94
$12.15 x 5.0 units = $60.75 
$61.94 + $60.75 = $122.69
Proposed Sewer Rates
Effective Date
Sample Commercial Monthly Sewer Charge
Current Rate
Aug 1 2023
July 1 2024
$63.80
July 1 2025
July 1 2026
July 1 2027
Effective August 1, 2023
Residential
Fixed Monthly Charge (Charge per dwelling unit)
The following shows how the sewer service charge would be
calculated for a Class B – Standard Strength commercial
customer with 10 CCF average monthly winter water use:
$60.14
$61.94
$65.71
$67.68
$13.28
$69.71
$13.68
Sewer Usage Charge (Rate per hundred cubic feet ($/CCF) of annualized average monthly winter water use)
Nov
12
Dec
9
Jan
10
Feb
11
Mar
8
Average
10.0
Class A Residential
$11.80
$12.15
$12.51
$12.89
Water Use (CCF)
Bill Calculation
Commercial
Sewer Usage Charge (Rate per hundred cubic feet ($/CCF) of annualized average monthly winter water use)
Sewer Usage Charge
$24.31 x 10.0 units = $243.10
Total Monthly Charge
$243.10
Class B Standard Strength
Class C Moderate Strength
Class D High Strength
Class E
$23.60
$31.00
$42.04
$24.31
$31.93
$43.30
$25.04
$32.89
$44.60
$25.79
$33.88
$45.94
$26.56
$34.90
$47.32
$27.36
$35.95
$48.74
A limited number of accounts are billed on a case-by-case basis based on sewer rates in effect.
Need Your Water Usage Information? California Water Company
customers may view their consumption history online at https://www.
CalWater.com/. Customers of other water providers should refer to
their water bills to determine consumption or contact the provider
directly.
Minimum Monthly Charge (Commercial bills are subject to the minimum monthly charge)
$60.14 
$61.94 
$63.80
$65.71
$67.68
$69.71
411 of 763

--- page 412 ---
412 of 763


--- page 413 ---
April 26, 2023 STMAY 9 Gros,

To: City of San Mateo City Clerk

eee OC =

i oppose the increase in sewage rates, | am the home owner!
This is for the Proposed Sewer Rate Increase.
Thank you,

Allyson White

413 of 763


--- page 414 ---
eo Mr. & Mrs. Eugene Barbara Van Duyn
1888 Whitecliff Way
San Mateo, CA 94402-3735

* PROuD SUPPORTER OF THE USO X

ne
Kewl
pe
=
aI
[hr

| fo: City CLERK 330 W207 Ave, San Many CA F440
co ‘ .
FoomeGogens 4 Bdesaca Ay Duyn

| Suri. fyoPosed Sewer PaTeE Increases
Daves 18 Apne 1023

|. Fest we pecieve SEWEd TAXés SHOULD BE
COLLECTED ANd/OR CUARGED @NAHE BILL Kor
WATER. VHIS Would \Neore Thar THe
FOLKS USING THE WATEL WOULNS PAY THE
TAKA ON WHAT THEY USED, THIS wooLo
BE FAIR To Ho ME OWNERS, LAN DLORDS ANH
RENTERS, .

we We bd NOT OBTECT THs Protoss) RATE

.

IS NEaAULy \b°/o. Vis chourn YoTGo FOR
AD \WAWYTUM,

WWEREASE) BUT THE ACTow OvER Five YEARS

3. We wotice TANT MOST PROIEGS THAT
CATHY S Covusr ie S$, AND STBTES PLIPOSE LE
A STATED CEasyT PLOPE SAL, BOT SOMEW HELE
ALONG THE LINE THESES COSTS Go UP TU
Mong Than LO/Z

UK iNDLY REs®ONd,



--- page 415 ---
eEPLE EGET ety fell gg tUfoat hoffe gteaf yey fee flagyl ey SERSe t -EQtes

GIbhh VO esUt OTS

= I motm ace '23APR24 2:49py
S93 SOMUIT BUY va mas- AVS) bh)

—

VSN / yaAauO4

s

; . SELE-ZOPP6 WO ‘oareW ues
LAME NS Ae SHOONUM 8881
udng UA Bavqieg auasng ‘sayy PAW

x

415 of 763


--- page 416 ---
From:
Azalea Mitch
To:
Subject:
Date:
Matt Fabry; Alonso Barahona
FW: Notice of Public Hearing on Proposed Sewer Rate Increases
Thursday, April 20, 2023 1:29:39 PM
image001.png
Attachments:
FYI
From:
Sent: Thursday, April 20, 2023 6:47 AM
To: Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Richard Hedges <rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Azalea Mitch <amitch@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rich Lee <rlee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Noel Nish
<bay_dental@yahoo.com>
Cc: David Canepa <dcanepa@smcgov.org>; curtis@smdailyjournal.com
Subject: Notice of Public Hearing on Proposed Sewer Rate Increases
Dear City Manager, City Council, and Public Works,
I received a notice from the City of San Mateo on "Public Hearing for Proposed Sewer
Rate Increases".
In 2020, we public had a HUGE increase in our property tax bill. (I am forwarding my
correspondence with you in 2020 re: this huge property tax increaseI noticed on my
tax bill at that time which prompted me to contact the County Assessor's office as to
why this was so.)
In my Citizens Academy course, I learned that we were constructing a new sewer
plant at a cost of $1 BILLION dollars.
Now, just 3 years later, the City is asking for sewer rate increases.
How is this justified when we were taxed just 3 years ago.
Your brochure states that the proposed rate increases will generate funding needed
to: continue construction and long term financing of the waste water treatment plant.
What happened to the money from the increase in our property tax bill?
Is this project OVERBUDGET?
Please provide an accurate accounting to the public and NOT JUST paragraphs of
your justification for asking us for more money. If you are spending our hard earned
money indiscriminately, PLEASE TURN OFF THE FAUCET. We, the public, are not
an ATM machine for the City's expenses!
I would like to know where the money went.
416 of 763

--- page 417 ---
I am opposed to this increase until your finance director sends me and everyone else
an accounting of expenses for our sewer waste water treatment facility.
Doris Nishimoto, D.D.S.
----- Forwarded Message -----
From: Alonso Barahona <abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org>
To: Brad Underwood <bunderwood@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Abby Veeser <aveeser@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent: Thursday, April 23, 2020 at 09:36:51 AM PDT
Subject: RE: I found error in City of San Mateo Sewer Service Charge
Good morning Ms. Nishimoto,
Thank you for your inquiry regarding your sewer charge for FY 2019/20. I will be evaluating your request
and respond to you shortly with more information.
All the best,
Alonso Barahona
Alonso Barahona
Management Analyst II | Public Works
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
O: 650-522-7334 | abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
M-TH: 7:30 a.m. – 5:30 p.m., F: 7:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. (off every other Friday)
In compliance with the San Mateo County Health Officer’s order to Shelter-in-Place through April 7th, the
City of San Mateo will only be providing essential services including public safety, wastewater treatment,
and critical infrastructure maintenance. We have closed City facilities to the public including libraries,
community centers, and City Hall. Staff in non-essential functions will be working remotely to the extent
possible, so please expect some delay in responses. Questions about the coronavirus or the County
Officer’s Health Order should be directed to the County’s 2-1-1 Call Center. For questions about City
Services, please call the City’s main line at (650) 522-7000 or visit www.cityofsanmateo.org.
From: Brad Underwood <bunderwood@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent: Thursday, April 23, 2020 8:09 AM
417 of 763

--- page 418 ---
To: Doris Nishimoto
; Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Alonso Barahona <abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org>; Abby Veeser <aveeser@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: RE: I found error in City of San Mateo Sewer Service Charge
Ms. Nishimoto,
Thank you for your inquiry. I am copying Alonso so that he can look into the issue that you present. He
will be getting back to you with a response or he may have additional questions or need additional
information. Either way he will be in contact with you.
Brad Underwood
From: Doris Nishimoto
Sent: Wednesday, April 22, 2020 3:00 PM
To: Brad Underwood <bunderwood@cityofsanmateo.org>; Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Noel Nish
Subject: I found error in City of San Mateo Sewer Service Charge
Hi Brad,
Since we are sheltering in place, I have been going through my paperwork. I have 2
documents from City of San Mateo
for the calculation of the Sewer Service Charge Fiscal year 2018-2019.
Although I had spoken to someone a year ago in the County Assessor's office, they
did not know how the calculation was done. Upon revisiting this paperwork, I see that
the number of units/parcel is wrong. They are more units than currently
built.
I called City of SM Public Works dept this morning, and your receptionist told me to
try calling NBS Sewer billing co @
1-800-676-7516 because they do the billing.
I called NBS, but Lorraine, who took the call says the burden of proof is on me as
they get information from: 1. Alonzo 650-522-7334 (sometimes they get information
from him) or 2. Assessor's office records. (most of time they get information here)
418 of 763

--- page 419 ---
Doris Nishimoto, D.D.S.

419 of 763


--- page 420 ---
To CITY CLERK -SAN MATEO

I am requestion an exemption of the city sewer charge to be adjusted to a amount in line with the
usage.

This is a private storage garage for my personal cars / not a rental.
The water usage over the past 3 years is | hundred cubic feet a year of 748 gallons per year.

Cal water account [i

I do not think I even use that much water but am billed | unit per year at a monthly water bill of
$52.70 per month or $632.40 water bill per year.

Then the tax bill sewer charge of $60.14 per month or $722.16 per year.

The total I am being charge $632.40 + $722.16 = $1,354.56 yr. / 12 = $112.88 per month of
nothing received.

I understand how the minimum charge doesn’t effect a bill if one has usage / without usage the
charge is all minimum.

Please except my request for exemption from this minimum charge or let me pay standard Class
A charge since | am not entering any volume into the system.

Joe Sully

420 of 763


--- page 421 ---
WOAhb 9 ! oop tf (AJ ik’
reo LOL (OM OTS

TAIT

WIE Z AYNEZ,

FOO OOD,

421 of 763


--- page 422 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC 
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED 
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION 
OF THE AGENDA PACKET 
422 of 763

--- page 423 ---
June 4, 2023 
To:  San Mateo City Clerk                                                                                                                                          
330 W. 20th Avenue                                                                                                                                                 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
Andrew Lomano                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                    
 
RE:  I strongly oppose the proposed increase to the Sewer Rates 
I am asking the City Council to Vote NO, because we the tax payers cannot afford this 
proposal as it stands.  More thought and common sense needs to be looked into this matter. 
 The notice sent to me was unclear as to how much the increase actually would be, (a 
underhanded way to convince us that this was a good project to approve!!!) 
The prposed rate would actually double our current sewer rate to $3,590 a year from  
the $1,827 that we pay now. 
I am struggling to get by due to the nonstop obsession of the City and CA pushing more 
development and creating a hostile business environment altogether, something it is 
exasperating to fight. We need common sense approaches in our public sector that the 
private sector has to live within. The current administration policies and anti business 
environment in CA has cost us dearly with increases in gas, food, garbage rates, water rates 
and PG&E (rate hikes seem to always be approved) and  all continuing to increase without 
thought to   those paying the bills/taxes. 
On reading the restrictions on how we can actually protest this sewer rate it looks like our 
City Council members do not want any input from the people who live under their tyranny.  
They are elected by the citizens of San Mateo and we have a right to be heard and freely 
comment on what the City Council proposes…as far as I understand, that is still a right our 
Constitution gives to “we the people.”   
Please vote No on the proposed sewer rate increase. 
Sincerely, 
 
Andrew Lomano 
423 of 763

--- page 424 ---
From:
Annette Bianco
To:
Clerk
Subject:
comments on 6/5/23 council meeting agenda item 29.
Date:
Monday, June 5, 2023 2:29:07 PM
Agenda item 29 Sewer Rate Increases Comment
I am representing several senior citizens who have asked me for help as well as my husband
and I and several of my neighbors.  
WE oppose the proposed increase to the sewer rates
1. The proposed rates would DOUBLE our current sewer rate from per year. 
2. We are on a fixed income. This would cripple many citizens who are already being hit with
higher water bills, garbage rates, gas at the pump, PG&E rates and cost of food increases.  We
thought you are trying to mitigate the homeless problem, not add to it by pushing senior
citizens out of their homes because they can no longer afford to live in them!
3. The notice that was sent out was too confusing. Many people didn’t understand how to
calculate the increase or proper submission of protest or if this rate would be monthly on water
bill or added to property tax bills.
We are asking the City Council vote NO, and send out to the citizens, a more clear and concise
notice so that everyone would understand how they would be impacted.
We are asking the City Council to vote NO because we the taxpayers cannot sustain the need
for expansion of the wastewater treatment plant because of high density developments.  WHY
DON’T THE DEVELOPMENTS THAT GENERATE A LOT OF MONEY FUNDING THE
CORRESPONDING NEED FOR EXPANSION OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE?  
Thank you,
Annette and Steve Bianco and other concerned San Mateo residents
424 of 763

--- page 425 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  30
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 10-2031
File ID: 23-7548
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Proposed 2023-24 Budget and 2023-28 Capital Improvement Program – Review
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the proposed 2023-24 budget and the 2023-28 capital improvement program and conduct a public hearing prior to 
the scheduled adoption at the June 20, 2023 City Council meeting.
BACKGROUND:
Prior to Council’s adoption of the 2023-24 budget on June 20, 2023, it holds two public hearings to receive public comment 
on the proposed budget and capital improvement program (CIP). Council was presented with a preview of the General 
Fund proposed 2023-24 budget on April 17, 2023. Overall, the proposed Citywide budget for 2023-24 is $317.5 million. 
This includes an operating budget of $239.1 million and a capital budget of $78.4 million. A summary of budget highlights 
is included in the City Manager’s Letter of Budget Transmittal in the Proposed 2023-24 Budget Book, included as 
Attachment 1. This agenda report primarily focuses on the General Fund, as it accounts for major tax revenues and funds 
the City's core services. Additional narratives are provided for the Construction Services Fund, as it is a perennial major 
fund of the City’s operations, and the Sewer Fund, which is the City’s sole enterprise fund and the second largest fund of 
the City. Fund summaries for all other operating funds are provided in the Proposed 2023-24 Budget Book. Narratives will 
be provided to discuss service-level enhancements as reflected in the 2023-24 position budget, but the focus of fiscal year 
(FY) 2023-24 is on the capital improvement program (CIP), as FY 2023-24 is year two of the two-year business plan. As 
such, the Proposed 2023-24 Budget Book includes summaries for the 2023-28 CIP as well as charters for funded projects 
and priority unfunded projects. This agenda report provides a high-level summary. The Proposed 2023-24 Budget Book 
also includes operating budget schedules to provide greater detail.
GENERAL FUND 
The General Fund, which is the City's primary operating fund, projects total revenues of $159.1 million and total 
expenditures of $171.7 million and includes transfers out and all General Fund sub-funds – Measure S, Downtown 
Services, Recreation Services, and Golf. Budget assumptions for major General Fund tax revenues are discussed in greater 
detail below. 
GENERAL FUND REVENUES 
PROPERTY TAX 
The proposed 2022-23 budget anticipates $78.0 million in property tax revenues, which is 45% of General Fund total 
revenues, and as such, is the General Fund’s chief revenue source. The primary components of property tax revenues 
include secured current year ($49.2 million), Excess ERAF ($8.2 million), and property tax in lieu of VLF ($10.8 million). 
These primary property tax components grow annually based on the change in assessed value, which as of May 2023, is 
projected to be 4.65%, which includes the change in the California Consumer Price Index (CCPI) or 2%, whichever is less, 
pursuant to the State constitution. The remainder of the growth in assessed value is attributable to properties that have 
425 of 763

--- page 426 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
been sold and the applicable assessed value reset to market value, as well as new development that has been added to the 
City’s property tax roll. The proposed 2023-24 budget anticipates that property tax will be $2.2 million less than the 
adopted 2022-23 budget. The primary culprit in the year-over-year reduction is property tax in-lieu of vehicle license fees 
(VLF). 
As a part of the 2004 budget agreement, the State of California agreed to swap the loss of vehicle license fees (otherwise 
known as VLF) with property tax. These property taxes have two funding sources: 1) property taxes from non-basic aid 
school districts, and 2) ERAF that would otherwise go to non-basic aid school districts. Due to the preponderance of basic 
aid school districts in the county (17 of 23), there are not enough non-basic aid school districts to backfill the VLF owed to 
the cities and the County. As such, the County of San Mateo has experienced property tax in lieu of VLF shortfalls over the 
past couple of years, which is an issue that is unique to San Mateo County. The procedure to address the VLF shortfall has 
been for the County to file a claim with the State at the end of the fiscal year of the VLF shortfall, which is taken into 
consideration by the State for the subsequent year’s budget. The county-wide VLF shortfall from fiscal year (FY) 2021-22 of 
$33 million is not included in the State’s proposed FY 2023-24 budget, despite advocacy efforts from San Mateo County 
and the local cities. The City’s share of the FY 2022-23 county-wide shortfall is $1.9 million. In addition, the proposed 2023-
24 budget assumes a county-wide VLF shortfall of $78.5 million, of which the City’s share would be $4.6 million. Absent the 
2021-22 VLF shortfall and the projected 2023-24 VLF shortfall, property tax revenues would be $84.0 million.
SALES TAX 
The proposed 2023-24 budget assumes Local 1% sales tax revenues (Bradley Burns) of $23.9 million and local 1/4% sales 
tax revenues (Measure S) of $7.3 million, which reflects modest growth of the City’s sales tax base after recovering back to 
the pre-pandemic baseline within a two-year period in FY 2021-22. Despite the relatively rapid recovery, the ongoing shift 
of consumer habits of purchasing taxable goods online rather than physical stores is expected to continue to keep sales tax 
growth at a modest pace, as the Bradley Burns is allocated based on point of sale. 
By contrast, Measure S, which is a 1/4% transactions and use tax, otherwise known as a district tax, is allocated based on 
destination. While the Bradley Burns and district tax are based on different tax laws, the disparity between the amount of 
revenue generated between the two sales tax revenues relative to their rate illustrates the impact of the gradual changes 
in consumer behavior. If the Bradley Burns tax were modified to be in alignment with modern technology and current 
consumer habits by being destination based, Bradley Burns sales tax revenues would be closer to $28.7 million rather than 
$23.5 million, a $5.2 million difference. 
REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX 
The federal government’s efforts to mitigate high inflation by increasing the federal funds rate increases the cost to 
borrow money. These actions at the federal level have a stifling effect on the real estate market, which in turn has caused 
the City’s real property transfer tax (RPTT) to precipitously drop. The adopted 2022-23 budget assumed RPTT revenues of 
$11.1 million based on an analysis of RPTT trends over the current and previous economic cycles. As a result of the 
escalation of the federal funds rate, RPTT revenue for 2022-23 are projected to end the year at $6.3 million. Over the next 
couple of years, the Federal Open Market Committee anticipates that the federal funds rate will begin to taper off. As 
such, the proposed 2023-24 budget and the General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan assume an average of $8.0 million 
throughout the 10-year period. The Letter of Transmittal in the Proposed 2023-24 Budget Book discusses the current trend 
in greater detail.
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
Local tourism and transient occupancy taxes (TOT) revenues have recovered faster than expected, but TOT remains the 
only tax revenue that has not yet recovered back to pre-pandemic levels. The proposed 2023-24 budget assumes that TOT 
revenues will reach $6.0 million. San Mateo’s TOT base is largely from business travel, which is anticipated to recover back 
to the pre-pandemic baseline by FY 2025-26 as reflected in the General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan based on analysis 
from Tourism Economics and Visit California. 
426 of 763

--- page 427 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
GENERAL FUND EXPENDITURES 
The proposed 2023-24 budget projects $171.7 million in General Fund total expenditures, which primarily consists of $86.7 
million in employee compensation, which includes salaries, wages, healthcare, and pension costs. Employee compensation 
represents over half of total General Fund expenditures and reflects the City’s ongoing commitment to provide 
competitive employee compensation and the proportional demand on General Fund resources. FY 2023-24 is year two of 
the two-year business plan, so the focus of the budget is on the CIP. Modest service level enhancements added $1.4 
million in additional cost to the operating budget to address key operational areas, including planning, building, traffic, 
engineering, and wastewater, as detailed below:
Community Development Department
•
1.0 full-time equivalent (FTE) Principal Planner - $213,000; Allocated 25% to Advance Planning Fund and 75% 
Construction Services Fund
o
This position is needed to ensure the timely handling of the increased number of planning applications in 
accordance with State law, ensure the City achieves and remains in compliance with the high volume of 
new State land use laws, which expedite processing times and require policy and code changes, assist with 
and lead Housing Element and General Plan implementation tasks,  including the comprehensive Zoning 
Code update, and assist the Planning Manager with streamlining permit processing and supporting staff 
with handing current planning tasks.
•
1.0 FTE Deputy Building Official - $197,000; Allocated 10% to General Fund and 90% to Construction Services Fund
o
This position is needed to assist the Building Official with process improvements and help support staff on 
technical matters and complex customer service issues related to the approximately 4,000 permits 
processed each year, and which is increasing in volume and turnaround times commensurately with 
planning applications. The Building Division comprises approximately half of the Department’s staff and 
has not had a proportional amount of management support. Adding back this previously funded position 
into the organizational structure would provide the support needed to channel some of CDD’s resources 
toward staff mentorship and operational improvements to improve customer service and shorten permit 
processing and response times.
•
1.0 FTE Development Review Technician - $120,000; Allocated 100% to Construction Services Fund
o
This position is needed to field the high volume of building and planning inquiries we experience daily and 
process the intake of building and planning permits submitted, which continue to increase. Development 
Review Technicians are difficult to attract and retain, as compensation in nearby cities is competitive, 
while work volumes often appear to be lower. Further, firms that offer professional services often do not 
have staff available to fill this role, making it difficult to obtain help when there are unexpected vacancies 
in our DRT pool. Adding this position would provide for a more balanced workload when fully staffed, 
allowing us to focus on process improvements, and help to ensure customer levels can be maintained  
when we experience staffing shortages, which is not unusual for this position.
Public Works Department
•
1.0 FTE Traffic and Lighting Technician - $138,000; Allocated 100% to General Fund
o
The City has 90 traffic signals and 6,700 streetlights that are currently maintained by one Traffic and 
Lighting Technician and one Traffic Safety Worker. For traffic infrastructure of this size, the Federal 
Highway Administration (FHWA) recommends a staff of three Traffic and Lighting Technicians and two 
Traffic Safety Workers. While still short of the FHWA recommendations, an additional Traffic and Lighting 
Technician would help address the maintenance requirements to ensure the safe operation of the traffic 
infrastructure.  
•
1.0 FTE Associate Engineer - $168,000; Allocated 65% to General Fund and 35% to Construction Services Fund
o
The Traffic Engineering group within Public Works is responsible for improving the operation of the City’s 
traffic infrastructure through the optimization of traffic signal timing for congestion relief; addressing 
safety concerns through the development of speed studies and the implementation of traffic calming 
projects; review of collision data for the development of traffic safety improvements; development of 
capital improvement projects such as the 101/Peninsula Interchange, Speed Limit Zone Reductions, High 
Voltage, and 19th Ave. / Fashion Island Traffic Improvements; and review of traffic impact analyses for new 
427 of 763

--- page 428 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
development.  In addition, the group is responsible for leading studies, such as the Local Roadway Safety 
Plan, Traffic Signal Master Plan, and the Circulation Element of the General Plan. The group consists of one 
Senior Engineer, two Associate Engineers, an Engineering Technician and is resource limited, unable to 
address resident requests and the implementation of critical safety projects in a timely and efficient 
manner. Additional resources are needed to implement critical traffic calming and safety projects.  
•
1.0 FTE Pump Station Mechanic - $134,000; Allocated 70% to Sewer Fund and 30% to General Fund
o
The City has a total of 27 sewer and 10 storm pump stations that are currently operated and maintained 
by three Pump Station Mechanics and a Laborer. Ensuring that these critical facilities are properly 
maintained and operated requires additional staff, particularly during wet weather events. Many facilities 
do not have backup power and require the use of portable generators, which are rotated between stations 
to maintain the sewer system from backing up and creating sanitary sewer overflows. The storm pump 
stations require constant clearing of trash to avoid malfunction and flooding. With an additional staff, 
preventive maintenance measures can be more effectively implemented and response times during 
emergencies greatly improved. 
•
1.0 FTE Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) Operator I/II - $139,000; Allocated 100% to Sewer Fund
o
With the expansion of the WWTP, a staff derivation study was conducted to determine the adequate 
number of staff needed to operate the facility. An additional operator is needed to ensure that the facility 
is well monitored and operated to meet regulatory requirements. 
Parks & Recreation Department
The Recreation Division is reorganizing based on current programming needs.  With recent vacancies, the department has 
an opportunity to reallocate resources into more front-line support positions and reduce overhead management positions.  
With this proposed reorganization, the department will eliminate vacancies in the following areas:  the community 
services manager, two supervisor positions, and two lead teacher positions.  
In addition, a section manager position in the Police Activity League (PAL) will be downgraded to a supervisor role. This 
change is due to elimination of funding from PAL for the additional cost of the section manager. 
Those vacancies will allow the addition of four new coordinator positions and one new senior program assistant position 
and the reclassification of a program assistant position to a senior program assistant position.  This structure will allow the 
department to create better workflow, delegation and oversight of work projects and daily tasks, along with creating a 
more streamlined succession plan for long-term outlook and recruitment.  This will allow for better service to the public 
and for streamlining of business operations.  Funding for these changes will be close to budget neutral. These changes are 
subject to bargaining unit approval, which will be in process shortly. 
NON-PERSONNEL OPERATING BUDGET ADDITIONS
The proposed 2023-24 budget includes $1.5 million in additions to the operating budget; $1.0 million of which is 
attributable to the General Fund. New additions of $50,000 or more to the operating budget are noted below by 
department:
Police Department
•
Security improvements to property and evidence room - $60,000
o
Funding is intended to address security and organizational concerns identified through a recent audit of 
the Police Department property and evidence room. The purpose is to enhance the digital locker system, 
upgrade storage systems for firearms and currency, as well as replace out of date non-ergonomic stations 
and evidence processing tables. Funds will also be designated for implementation of a more uniform 
storage system for existing evidence, reducing the chance of lost or damaged items stored for an extended 
period.
•
Additional cost for digital evidence software - $93,000
o
With the ever-evolving world of technology, upgrades to forensic tools and equipment are necessary. This 
funding will be used to enhance the San Mateo Digital Forensic Extraction Team’s ability to perform full-
file system and physical extractions from computers and cellular phones with the Cellebrite Premium 
428 of 763

--- page 429 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Service. This new software will assist in accessing highly protected areas such as the iOS Keychain or the 
Secure Folder. Accessing third party application data, stored passwords and tokens, chat conversations, 
location data, email attachments, system logs, as well as deleted content, will increase the unit’s chances 
of finding the incriminating evidence.
•
Police Department staffing study - $100,000 (one-time)
o
The study is expected to result in the creation of a report outlining current capabilities and future needs of 
the Police Department based on growth and development within the City. The report will include the 
current status of the agency and actionable steps to improve, remodel, build or increase facilities, 
personnel, and infrastructure.
Public Works Department
•
Additional street sweeper to address downtime associated with ongoing vehicle problems and reliability - 
$410,000 (one-time)
•
Additional Marina Lagoon maintenance expenses for algae harvesting and other contract adjustments - $528,500
•
Maintenance improvements for storm water pump stations, including pump replacements, instrumentation, 
monitoring and control modifications, diagnostics, and other general needs - $80,000
•
Increase in software costs associated with Maintenance Connection and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition 
(SCADA)/Wonderware - $50,000
•
Anticipated increases to cleaning/sweeping services for the Downtown Kiku garage; current contract budgeted at 
$500k/yr - $81,000
PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS
A key component of the cost of employee compensation is the unfunded accrued liability (UAL) with the California Public 
Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS). The UAL is the amortized cost of CalPERS’ investment gains/losses as well as 
changes in actuarial assumptions; in other words - a loan from CalPERS to the City paid back at 7.0% interest over 30 years 
for investment gains/losses on or before June 30, 2019 and 20 years for investment gains/losses after June 30, 2019. For 
FY 2023-24, the total UAL is $17.6 million; the General Fund’s share of which is $13.5 million. As reflected in the General 
Fund Long-Term Financial Plan, the General Fund’s share of the UAL will precipitously increase to $18.7 million in 2024-25 
and as high as $24.6 million in 2030-31 as a result of CalPERS’ negative 7.5% investment return for the fiscal year ended 
June 30, 2022. Over the course of the 20-year amortization period, CalPERS’ investment loss from June 30, 2022 will 
require the City to pay $177 million more in pension contributions. The escalating cost of pension contributions continues 
to reduce the City’s capacity to address competing demands with its limited resources, including service level 
enhancements and unfunded infrastructure needs.
Transfers Out | Investment in Infrastructure and Capital Improvements
The General Fund supports other needs by transferring resources out to other funds. For fiscal year 2023-24, total 
transfers out are projected to be $14.2 million:
•
$7.25 million to support the City’s capital improvement plan (CIP), which is $3.0 million more than the General 
Fund has historically contributed to the CIP, which is indicative of the City Council’s commitment to continue 
investing in the City’s infrastructure and capital improvements.
•
$3.85 million of Measure S funds to support the CIP;
•
$2.69 million from Measure S to transfer out for debt service related to flood control and street rehabilitation; and
•
$0.41 million to address building maintenance needs
General Fund Long-Term Plan
Over the next 10 years, the General Fund is projected to draw down Rainy Day Reserves to as low as $15 million in 2030-31 
and recover to $25.7 million by 2032-33. Key revenue and expenditure assumptions are noted below:
GENERAL FUND REVENUES:
•
The State of California will continue to honor the escalating VLF shortfall claims. As the number of non-basic aid 
429 of 763

--- page 430 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
school districts continues to diminish, the VLF shortfall will continue to grow. If every school district reaches basic 
aid status in 10 years, the county-wide VLF shortfall could reach upwards of $370 million by 2032-33, of which the 
City’s share would be over $20 million. At present, the State of California’s 2023-24 May 2023 Revised Budget does 
not include appropriations to address San Mateo County’s $33 million VLF shortfall. If the State no longer honors 
the annual VLF shortfall claim or does not make a legislative amendment to address this issue, the City’s revenue 
loss is projected to be over $100 million through 2032-33.
•
Inflation and the Federal Fund Rate will reach 3.0% by 2025-26. These metrics have a direct nexus to the interest 
rates available for purchasing homes, and by extension, the City’s real property transfer tax. 
•
The majority of the City’s TOT base is from business travel, which is expected to return to the 2018-19 baseline by 
2025-26 based on projections from Tourism Economics and Visit California.   
•
If the projections for General Fund revenues and expenditures come to fruition, the General Fund would realize a 
net loss of $12.6 million for 2023-24. As shown in the General Fund Long-Term Plan, based on revenue and 
expenditure assumptions, the City’s Rainy Day Reserve is projected to reach a low of $16.0 million in 2031 before 
recovering to the target reserve policy goal of $30.0 million by 2033.
•
Policy H1.2 of the City’s Housing Element calls for the City to resume contributing 20% of the property tax that the 
City receives as a taxing entity from the former Redevelopment Agency (RDA), also known as ”boomerang funds” 
to the housing set aside in fiscal year 2023-24, which the City can use for affordable housing developments. The 
City suspended its practice due to the immediate and severe financial impact of COVID-19 in 2020. For 2023-24, 
this would result in $1.0 million shifting from the Rainy Day Reserve to the housing set aside. 
GENERAL FUND EXPENDITURES
•
Employee cost of living adjustments (COLA) will keep pace with long-term inflation at 2%.
•
Pension contributions will increase sharply starting in 2024-25 due to CalPERS’ investment losses from 2021-22. 
Over the 20-year amortization period starting in 2024-25, the City will pay $177 million more in pension 
contributions. The General Fund Long-Term Plan assumes that CalPERS will meet its target rate of return (discount 
rate) for the remainder of the 10-year forecast. 
NET REDUCTIONS
Net Reductions reflect potential favorable deviations from revenue or expenditure assumptions. For example, the City’s 
long-term assumption for the increase in AV for property tax is 4%. In any given year, if the AV is greater than the long-
term assumption, the City would recognize additional revenue. Conversely, the City’s vacancy assumption for non-safety 
positions is 2%. If the actual vacancy rate is greater in a fiscal year, then the expenditures would be less than projected. 
The General Fund Long-Term Plan assumes net reductions of $3.1 million to $3.7 million each year.
The chart below illustrates the budget to actual deviations that have come to fruition over the past five fiscal years:
430 of 763

--- page 431 ---
$113

$25
$25

Budget
2017-18
@ Property Tax $52,697,954
@ Sales Tax $24,832,031
@ Other Tax $24,968,430
All OtherRevenues $15,232,432
@ Total Expenditures $113,043,220

CITY OF SAN MATEO

$112

$56

$24

Actual
2017-18
$55,643,949
$23,873,042
$28,359,383
$16,207,004
$112,035,641

$125

$58

$25
$26

Budget
2018-19
$57,965,311
$24,959,185
$25,688,852
$17,132,581
$124,928,679

$115

$61

oY
N
1 Hi ti

Actual
2018-19
$61,432,496
$25,966,382
$30,645,214
$21,828,105
$114,903,300

$130

$64

$25
od

Budget
2019-20
$64,046,548
$25,168,474
$24,596,456
$18,333,422
$130,353,708

$123

$65

pd a
Boe
a Ss

Actual
2019-20
$64,742,316
$23,330,453
$22,667,498
$19,505,432
$123,437,775

$136

Budget
2020-21
$63,508,520
$23,531,618
$15,069,466
$19,976,745
$135,672,302

$127

Actual
2020-21
$64,190,717
$24,504,023
$22,040,014
$26,861,906
$126,716,879

$142

$31

9

Budget
2021-22
$66,181,679
$25,488,900
$18,742,822
$31,314,444
$141,505,816

$136

$72

$29
$28
$30

Actual
2021-22
$72,348,402
$29,123,009
$28,256,902
$29,942,592
$135,746,284

431 of 763


--- page 432 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Capital Improvement Plan for 2023-28
The total capital improvement plan (CIP) for 2023-28 is projected to be $284.4 million. The chart below illustrates the 
project type by fiscal year. Sanitary Sewer projects represent the majority of the 2028-28 CIP, with $123.0 million of 
projects planned for the five-year period, largely for completion of the Clean Water Program.
The funding sources for the 2023-28 CIP are shown in the chart below. With the Clean Water Program constituting a large 
majority of the CIP, the Sewer Fund represents a large portion of the CIP funding.
$-
$10
$20
$30
$40
$50
$60
$70
$80
Sum of 2023-24
Sum of 2024-25
Sum of 2025-26
Sum of 2026-27
Sum of 2027-28
Utility Underground
Traffic
Streets
Street Lights
Stormwater
Sanitary Sewer
Parks
Miscellaneous
Buildings
Bridges
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Millions
432 of 763

--- page 433 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
 
Transportation Improvement Fee and The General Plan
The City’s Municipal Code Chapter 27.13 established a transportation improvement fee (TIF) for new development to help 
fund transportation improvements necessary to maintain intersection improvements that will accommodate future 
growth.  The TIF currently funds transportation improvement projects that are necessary to maintain consistency with the 
General Plan Policy (C2.1), which requires that intersections not exceed a vehicle-specific level of service or a certain 
amount of delay. Policy C2.1 is changing with the forthcoming General Plan Update. As such, the list of projects that are 
required to accommodate future growth will change in order to be consistent with the new General Plan policy. Once the 
General Plan is adopted, staff will develop a new list of traffic improvements that aligns with the updated General Plan 
policy, and then update the TIF. Future transportation improvement projects will be programmed into the capital 
improvement plan once this effort is completed.
The narratives below list each project type, the total CIP cost over the five-year period, and major projects within each 
project type for the 2023-28 CIP. The proposed 2023-24 budget book includes more detailed information on the 2023-28 
CIP, including a charter for new funded projects as well as priority unfunded projects.
Bikeway/Pedestrian - $13.8 million
1.
101/92 Multi-model (Fashion Island Boulevard) Class IV Bike Lane - $5.8 million
2.
Bike San Mateo Program - $2.1 million
3.
Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor - $1.7 million
$-
$10
$20
$30
$40
$50
$60
$70
$80
Sum of 2023-24
Sum of 2024-25
Sum of 2025-26
Sum of 2026-27
Sum of 2027-28
Tree Replacement Fee
Traffic Impact Fee
Taxes, Fees & Charges
South Bayfront Levee
Sewer
RMRA
Private Contributions
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
Parking In-Lieu
Other Agencies
Miscellaneous
Measure W
Measure S
Measure A
Grants
General Fund
Gas Tax
Millions
433 of 763

--- page 434 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Bridges - $13.0 million
1.
Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement - $11.0 million
2.
Citywide Bridge Maintenance - $3.3 million
3.
Rail Corridor Grade Separation – ($1.3) million
Buildings - $32.3 million
1.
New Central Park Parking Garage - $18.0 million (would require the City to issue debt)
2.
Parking Facility Structural Repairs - $7.2 million
3.
Corp Yard Miscellaneous Improvements - $2.0 million
Miscellaneous - $4.7 million
1.
Art in Public Places - $1.0 million
2.
External Radio Infrastructure - $0.9 million
3.
Police Radios – Hand Held and Mobile - $0.7 million
Parks - $33.3 million
1.
Central Park - $10.0 million
2.
Citywide Park Play Area Upgrade - $9.0 million
3.
King Pool Assessment and Improvements - $6.1 million 
Sanitary Sewer - $123.0 million
1.
Clean Water Program Annual Citywide Sewer Rehabilitation - $27.6 million
2.
Wastewater Treatment Plant and Flow Management Upgrade and Expansion - $26.6 million
3.
Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Upgrades - $16.0 million
Stormwater - $6.4 million
1.
Small Trash Capture Devices - $3.8 million
2.
Columbia Drive and Crystal Springs Road Storm Drain Channel - $1.4 million
3.
City-wide Soil Stabilization Program - $0.8 million
Street Lights - $5.0 million
1.
High Voltage Street Light Conversion - $5.0 million
Streets - $41.0 million
1.
Citywide Street Rehabilitation Program - $33.2 million
2.
Citywide Street Reconstruction - $7.1 million
3.
Citywide Sign Inventory and Replacement - $0.5 million
Traffic - $7.3 million
1.
Grammercy Drive Retaining Wall - $2.4 million
2.
Norfolk Street and Fashion Island Boulevard Intersection Reconstruction - $1.4 million
3.
Neighborhood Traffic Management – $1.0 million
Utility Underground - $2.7 million
1.
25th Avenue Undergrounding – Phase II - $2.7 million
CONSTRUCTION SERVICES FUND 
The Construction Services Fund accounts for the revenues and expenditures of the building permit activities. Total 2023-24 
revenues are projected to be $8.8 million, total expenditures are projected to be $12.5 million, and transfers out are 
projected to be $5.5 million. If the proposed budget estimates come to fruition, the Construction Services Fund will result 
in a planned draw on fund balance of $9.2 million, bringing the fund balance closer to the reserve policy of 12 months of 
434 of 763

--- page 435 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
operating expenditures. 
SEWER FUND 
The proposed 2023-24 budget projects $86.5 million in revenues, principally comprised of sewer service fees of $80.6 
million. The projected revenues reflect the anticipated annual rate increases of 3% for fiscal years 2023-24 through 2027-
28 as proposed in a separate agenda item to support the capital improvements and maintain ongoing services. Total 
expenses are projected to be $230.1 million, comprised of $28.5 million in operating expenses, $173.6 million in CIP, and 
$28.1 million in debt service. CIP expenses will largely be funded by the low-interest loans from the state and federal 
government and primarily reflects the commitment to complete the Clean Water Program, a comprehensive plan to 
update the wastewater collection system and wastewater treatment plant (WWTP).
 
GANN LIMIT
In addition to the adoption of the 2023-24 budget and capital improvement program, there will be one other action 
requested of Council as part of the overall budget adoption process on June 20th. This action is to establish the City’s 
appropriations limit for 2023-24. The appropriations limit, which was originally established in 1979 by Proposition 4, places 
a maximum limit of the appropriation of tax proceeds that can be made by the State, school districts, and local 
governments in California. California Government Code requires that the City annually adopt an appropriations limit for 
the upcoming fiscal year. The appropriations limit for the City of San Mateo for 2023-24 is $260,445,497, while the 
proceeds of taxes subject to the appropriations limit is $135,537,117. Therefore, the City is well below its appropriations 
limit for fiscal year 2023-24. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The overall proposed 2023-24 budget is $317.5 million, comprised of $239.1 million for the operating budget and $78.4 
million for the CIP. The General Fund is projected to account for $159.1 million in revenues and $171.7 million in 
expenditures, reflecting an anticipated draw on the Rainy Day Reserve due to front-loading support for the CIP and the 
impact of the VLF shortfall. The Construction Services Fund is expected to have $8.8 million in revenues and $12.5 million 
in expenditures for a planned draw on reserves of $3.7 million. The Sewer Fund is expected to account for $86.5 million in 
revenues and $230.1 million in expenses, largely comprised of CIP for the Clean Water Program that is primarily funded by 
low-interest loans from the state and federal government.
The 2023-28 CIP is projected to be $284.4 million. Each fiscal year, the City Council only appropriates funds for Year One of 
the five-year CIP. The 2023-24 CIP is projected toBudg be $78.4 million.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This proposed 2023-24 budget is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed 2023-24 Budget Book
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
435 of 763

--- page 436 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Proposed 2023-24 Budget
436 of 763

--- page 437 ---
Table of Contents
BUDGET MESSAGE
Letter of Transmittal
CITY OVERVIEW
City Council Vision
City Council Strategic Direction
City Council Priorities
Organizational Vision
City Profile
City Organizational Chart
Basis of Budgeting
Budget Preparation Timeline
Budget Preparation Process
GFOA Financial Reporting Award
GFOA Budget Award
CSMFO Budget Award
BUDGET OVERVIEW
City Sources of Funding
Citywide Operating Budget 
Schedule of Interfund Transfers
Capital Improvement Projects Budget
Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Personnel
All Funds Budget Summary
Pension Long-Term Forecast
General Fund
DEPARTMENTS
City Attorney
City Clerk
City Council 
City Manager’s Office
Community Development
Finance
Human Resources
Information Technology
Library
Parks and Recreation
Police
Public Works
Non-Departmental
FUND INFORMATION
Special Revenue
Debt Service
Capital Projects
Enterprise
Internal Services
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Summary
Funded Projects
Project Charters - Funded
Project Charters - Priority Unfunded
Projects by Funding Source
Unfunded Projects
APPENDIX
Financial Policies
Gann Appropriations Limit
Glossary
Budget Changes
93
109
113
115
117
127
133
137
229
250
278
279
285
286
288
2
14
15
16
17
18
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
28
30
33
35
36
37
39
41
54
55
58
59
62
66
69
72
75
78
82
86
91
437 of 763

--- page 438 ---


--- page 439 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
City Manager's Letter of Transmittal
Honorable Mayor Lee and Members of the City Council:
The City’s long-term fiscal condition is healthy due to prudent fiscal discipline that the City Council exercised beginning in 
the wake of the Great Recession to accumulate resources in preparation for the next economic fluctuation. The landscape 
of the City’s post-COVID economic recovery reflects a diametrically opposed impact of inflation on major tax revenues. 
While inflation largely spurred the relatively rapid recovery of sales tax revenues back to the pre-pandemic baseline within 
two years, it is also, by extension, unfavorably impacting real property transfer tax (RPTT) revenues due to the high cost to 
borrow money.  
In contrast to the rapid recovery of sales tax revenues, transient occupancy tax revenues (TOT) have yet to recover back to 
the pre-pandemic baseline. However, the recovery trend is better than previously projected. TOT revenues are projected to 
end fiscal year 2022-23 at $5.0 million, which is 71% of the pre-pandemic baseline, and largely reflect the recovery trends 
of business travel, which is the primary base for the City’s TOT revenues. 
While sales tax, RPTT, and TOT are susceptible to economic ebb and flow, the challenges with the property tax in-lieu of 
vehicle license fees (VLF) are due to a structural flaw that began with the swap of property tax with a reduction in vehicle 
license fees from 20 years ago as a part of the 2004 budget deal with the State of California. Due to the limited number of 
non-basic aid school districts in San Mateo County, a VLF shortfall has occurred each year since 2020-21 through present. 
The VLF shortfall issue will be discussed in greater detail later in this letter of transmittal. 
The City has prepared a two-year business plan since 1986, in which the focus of year one of the business plan is on the 
operating budget, and the focus of year two of the business plan is on the Capital Improvement Program (CIP). Due to the 
fiscal uncertainty of the pandemic, the City shifted to a one-year budget beginning in fiscal year 2020-21 and returned to 
the two-year business plan in fiscal year 2022-23. Fiscal year 2023-24 represents year two of the business plan, as such, 
the focus is on the CIP.  
2023-24 Budget and Long-Term Financial Plan Overview 
The proposed 2023-24 budget projects General Fund total revenues of $159.1 million and total expenditures of 
$171.7 million. Of note, the projection for total revenues reflects the State of California’s 2023-24 budget not including 
appropriations to address the 2021-22 county-wide VLF shortfall of $33 million. In addition, the proposed budget includes 
substantial support for the CIP to address the City’s infrastructure needs. 
The City’s General Fund is in a strong fiscal position with an estimated $111.9 million in reserves at the end of FY 2022-23, 
which includes $71.5 million in Rainy Day Reserves, which is above and beyond the 25% operating reserve of $37.3 million. 
In contrast to the City’s limited fiscal position during the Great Recession, City Council’s prudent fiscal discipline during the 
period of recovery and growth post-Great Recession positioned the General Fund to be able to draw on the Rainy Day 
Reserves during economic fluctuations. The Rainy Day Reserves are expected to decline from a projected high of $71.5 
million in 2023 to a low of $21.0 million in 2031 and build to the policy goal of $30.0 million in 2033.
Of note, there are two major assumptions in the General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan: 1) that the State of California will 
honor future VLF shortfall claims; and 2) that the California Public Employees’ Retirement System’s (CalPERS) investment 
earnings will meet its discount rate. If CalPERS’ investment earnings unfavorably deviate from the discount rate, amortized 
investment losses will further diminish the City’s long-term fiscal position.
2
439 of 763

--- page 440 ---
CATEGORY
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Citywide Operations
General Fund
$
157.5
Special Revenue / Debt Service Funds
25.0
Enterprise Fund
56.5
Total
$
239.1
Capital Improvement Program
$
78.0
Total
$
317.1
In millions. Operating costs include debt service payments.
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
The total City operating budget for 2023-24 is $239.1 million and is up 10.2% increase over the adopted 2022-23 budget. 
The cost escalation is primarily due to capitalized interest from the 2021 Notes, which were issued as a part of the Plan of 
Finance for the Clean Water Program in a prior fiscal year. Absent the capitalized interest, the operating budget increased 
by 3.9% due to the cost of employee compensation, reflecting negotiated compensation increases and escalation in the 
cost of healthcare and pension contributions. Employee compensation (Salaries and Wages, Benefits, and 86.7% of the 
operating contribution to San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department) represents over 60% of the total operating budget, 
which reflects the cost to provide core services to the San Mateo community. 
The CIP for 2023-24 totals $78.0 million, which is $10.1 million more than the adopted 2022-23 CIP, and $16.0 million less 
than the 2023-24 CIP estimate from the adopted 2022-23 CIP. The change in CIP for 2023-24 between the prior 5-year CIP 
and the proposed 2023-24 CIP was primarily in the Sanitary Sewer project type, which shifted some planned project costs 
to 2025-26. Nearly half of the proposed 2023-24 CIP budget is for Sewer Fund capital improvements, and the majority 
of which are for the Clean Water Program annual citywide sanitary sewer rehabilitation ($11.7 million) and Wastewater 
Treatment Plant (WWTP) Flow Management Upgrade and Expansion ($11.2 million) project. 
2023-24 Proposed Budget
With the above recovery trends and challenges in context, I am pleased to present the 2023-24 budget. Overall, the 
proposed citywide budget, including both operating and capital, is $317.1 million. 
The City’s proposed budget for 2023-24 continues to provide for core services, Measure S initiatives, and Council priorities, 
while also making a substantial investment in our capital and infrastructure needs. The following table summarizes the 
proposed spending plans for operating and capital expenditures for 2023-24.
3
440 of 763

--- page 441 ---
DEPARTMENT
ACTION
DESCRIPTION
ADDITIONAL 
GENERAL FUND 
AMOUNT
ADDITIONAL 
OTHER FUND 
AMOUNT
TOTAL 
ADDITIONAL 
AMOUNT
Community Development
Add
Principal Planner
$
-
$
213
$
213
Community Development
Add
Deputy Building Official
20
177
197
Community Development
Reallocate
Senior Code Enforcement Officer
3
9
12
Community Development
Add
Development Review Technician
-
120
120
Public Works
Reallocate
Administrative Tecnician
-
36
36
Public Works
Add
Traffic and Lighting Technician
138
-
139
Public Works
Add
Associate Engineer
109
59
168
Public Works
Add
Pump Station Mechanic II
40
94
134
Public Works
Add
WWTP Operator I/II
-
139
139
Finance
Reallocate
Senior Accounting Assistant
9
-
9
Finance
Reallocate
Senior Accounting Assistant
9
-
9
Finance
Reallocate
Budget Manager
22
-
22
Total
Total
$
350
$
847
$
1,197
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
General Fund and Budget Development Priorities 
As noted earlier, General Fund operating expenditures for 2023-24 are projected to be $157.5 million. With 2023-24 as 
year two of the business plan, the proposed budget includes $1.4 million in additions to the operating budget that 
address high priority operational areas, which are summarized below: 
Table 1: Position Budget Changes (in thousands)
4
441 of 763

--- page 442 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
DEPARTMENT
ACTION
DESCRIPTION
ADDITIONAL 
GENERAL FUND 
AMOUNT
ADDITIONAL 
OTHER FUND 
AMOUNT
TOTAL 
ADDITIONAL 
AMOUNT
Police
New
Funding for security improvements to 
property and evidence room
$
60
$
-
$
60
Police
Additional 
Budget
Cellebrite Premium Digital evidence
93
-
93
Police
New
Staffing Study
100
-
100
Police
Additional 
Budget
Parking enforcement contractual cost 
increase
43
-
43
City Manager
Add
Per diem communications technician
40
-
40
City Manager
Additional 
Budget
Increase contribution to Chamber of 
Commerce
15
-
15
Public Works
New
Additional street sweeper
-
410
410
Public Works
Additional 
Budget
Marina lagoon maintenance contract 
adjustments
529
-
529
Public Works
Additional 
Budget
Storm water pump station maintenance 
improvements
80
-
80
Public Works
New
WWTP Maintenance per diem
-
43
43
Public Works
Additional 
Budget
Increase in software costs for SCADA/
Wonderware
-
50
50
Public Works
Additional 
Budget
Transfer CNG cleaning skid maintenance 
from Facilities to WWTP plus cost 
escalation plus media replacement cost
-
78
78
Public Works
Reduction
Transfer CNG cleaning skid maintenance 
from Facilities to WWTP; reduction of 
expired CNG warranty; align with actual 
funding needs
-
(160)
(160)
Public Works
Additional 
Budget
Cleaning/sweeping services for 
Downtown Kiku parking garage
81
-
81
Total
Total
$
1,041
$
421
$
1,463
In thousands.
Table 2: Operating Budget Changes (in thousands)
5
442 of 763

--- page 443 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
Challenges 
The primary fiscal challenges that the City is facing are the impact of inflation on RPTT, the county-wide VLF shortfall and 
the State’s intransigence to honor its commitment to pay the VLF that is owed to the county and the cities within San Mateo 
County, and escalating pension contributions due to CalPERS’ investment losses from 2021-22. Each challenge is discussed 
in greater detail below. 
Real Property Transfer Tax 
While inflation has had a favorable impact on sales tax revenues, it has, by extension, conversely dampened real property 
transfer tax revenues. As shown in Charts 1 and 2, the Federal Reserve’s efforts to slow the economy down by raising the 
federal funds rate has increased interest rates, which makes it more expensive to borrow money as reflected in the average 
mortgage interest rate.
Chart 1: Federal Funds Rate since 1954
Chart 2: Average mortgage interest rate since 1971
6
443 of 763

--- page 444 ---
As shown in Charts 3 and 4, the increased cost to borrow money has dramatically slowed the real estate market down, and 
by extension, has reduced the City’s projected real property transfer tax revenues.
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
Chart 3: Local Real Estate Metrics - Single Family Homes from 2016 - 2023
7
444 of 763

--- page 445 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
The reduction in the number of properties sold and the median sales price as well as the increase in the average days on 
market have dampened the City’s real property transfer tax revenues in comparison to prior trends:
While the Federal Open Market Committee anticipates that the federal funds rate will gradually decline over the next couple 
of years, the impact of higher interest rates is the primary impetus for resetting the long-term assumption for RPTT to $8 
million per fiscal year in the General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan. 
Property Tax In-Lieu of Vehicle License Fees  
In 2004, as a part of the budget deal with the State of California, the vehicle license fee rate was reduced from 2.0% to 
0.65%. To offset the onerous financial impact to local governments, the State backfilled the reduction of vehicle license 
fees with property tax, known as property tax in-lieu of vehicle license fees (VLF). The primary caveat being that the funding 
source for the VLF is property tax and Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund (ERAF) from non-basic aid school districts, 
which are school districts that are not able to meet their State-determined minimum funding level (as defined by Proposition 
98) through property taxes. The property tax and ERAF from non-basic aid school districts that is used to fund the VLF owed
to cities and counties is then backfilled by the State General Fund.
In San Mateo County, 17 of the 23 school districts have basic aid status. As such, the limited number of non-basic aid school 
districts to backfill the property tax in-lieu of VLF that is owed to the county and local cities has resulted in a shortfall. 
To date, San Mateo County is the only county in the State of California that has had VLF shortfalls. At present, the only 
recourse to be made whole for the VLF shortfall is to file a claim with the State for it to consider as a part of its budget 
deliberations in the subsequent fiscal year. In fiscal year (FY) 2020-21, the county-wide VLF shortfall was $96 million, and 
the City’s share of the VLF shortfall was $5.7 million. The State’s 2022-23 adopted budget included appropriations to make 
San Mateo County whole for the 2020-21 VLF shortfall. However, the State’s proposed 2023-24 budget that was published 
in January 2023 did not include any budget appropriations for the FY 2021-22 VLF shortfall of $33 million. Despite the 
collective efforts from San Mateo County and every local city within San Mateo County to contact state representatives to 
Chart 4: Five-Year Historical Real Property Transfer Tax by Quarter
8
445 of 763

--- page 446 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
address the 2021-22 VLF shortfall, the appropriation was not included in the State's May 2023 revise budget. Over the next 
7-10 years, it is expected that the remaining non-basic aid school districts will gradually shift to basic aid status, and as such,
the VLF shortfall will grow exponentially, from the shortfall of $70 million for FY 2022-23 to over $370 million by 2032-33,
of which the City’s share would be approximately $20 million. The General Fund Long-Term Plan assumes that the State will
honor San Mateo County’s VLF shortfall claim each year.
Pension  
In July 2021, CalPERS reported a preliminary return on investment (ROI ) of 21.3% for fiscal year 2020-21. At first blush, 
higher interest returns may have seemed favorable, but interest is a measure of risk, and the deviation from the discount 
rate meant that CalPERS’ investment portfolio was taking on too much risk. As such, the Funding Risk Mitigation Policy 
(RMP) was triggered, which reduced the discount rate from 7.0% to 6.8%. The investment gain – the difference between 
the 7.0% discount rate and the 21.3% ROI, will be amortized over 20 years, with a ramp up over the first five years (1/5th or 
20% of the annual amortization amount recognized each year), beginning in the actuarial valuations with a measurement 
date of June 30, 2021, which applies to the pension contribution rates for 2023-24. The reduction of the discount rate will 
be amortized over 20 years with no ramping, as ramping for changes in actuarial assumptions was eliminated beginning in 
measurement periods of June 30, 2019. 
Due to the high degree of market volatility, in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, CalPERS reported an investment return 
of negative 7.5%. Of note, the investment loss that will be amortized over a 20 year period beginning in FY 2024-25 is 
the difference between negative 7.5% and the discount rate of 6.8%. Once the five-year ramping has been completed, 
the increase in pension contributions as a result of the loss will be an additional $10 million per year. Over the 20-year 
amortization period, the City will pay $177 million in additional pension contributions as a result of CalPERS’ investment loss 
from FY 2021-22.
Chart 5: CalPERS ROI and discount rate 1992 - 2022
9
446 of 763

--- page 447 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
Every deviation between the ROI and the discount rate (gain or loss) results in an amortization base being generated, 
which is essentially a mortgage or loan that is paid off over time. Gains or losses incurred before June 30, 2019 have an 
amortization period of 30 years, while subsequent gains or losses are amortized over 20 years; a policy change to reduce 
the cost of interest expense. In addition to the payment on the UAL, the City’s pension contribution also includes the normal 
cost, which is the cost for the current year of service. Assuming that CalPERS will be able to achieve its long-term ROI of 
6.8%, as shown in the table below, it takes nearly all of the City’s sales tax revenues, which is second to only property tax as 
the General Fund’s top tax revenue source, to cover the escalating cost of pension contributions for the General Fund.
FISCAL YEAR
GENERAL FUND 
PENSION NORMAL 
COST 
GENERAL FUND 
PENSION UAL
GENERAL FUND 
PENSION TOTAL
PROJECTED LOCAL
 1% SALES TAX 
REVENUE 
PENSION AS A 
PERCENTAGE
 OF SALES TAX
2023-24
$
5.4 
$
13.5
$
18.9
$
23.9
79%
2024-25
5.6
18.7
24.3
24.8
98%
2025-26
5.6
19.3
24.9
25.7
97%
2026-27
5.5
20.5
26.0
26.6
98%
2027-28
5.5
21.5
27.0
27.4
99%
2028-29
5.4
23.5
28.9
28.2
102%
2029-30
5.4
24.0
29.4
29.1
101%
2030-31
5.4
24.6
30.0
29.9
100%
2031-32
5.4
23.9
29.3
30.8
95%
2032-33
5.5
23.7
29.2
31.8
92%
In millions.
Opportunities 
Capital and Infrastructure Investments 
As a result of the City Council’s fiscal discipline and prudence during the period of economic recovery and growth after the 
Great Recession, the City is positioned to continue investing in capital and infrastructure during this period of economic 
volatility. We continue to move closer to completion of the $1 billion Clean Water Program and leveraged low interest 
loans with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) through the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) 
and the State of California’s State Revolving Fund (SRF) to save rate payers over $170 million compared to issuing debt 
through the municipal bond market. Tremendous progress is being made now that will upgrade and expand the wastewater 
treatment plant to provide high-quality services to our community for decades to come. 
Other major initiatives that are underway include accelerated street repair and reconstruction, and the flood control 
infrastructure in North Shoreview. In February 2020, the City, through the San Mateo – Foster City Public Financing 
Authority, issued $42.3 million in lease revenue bonds to finance these improvements. For streets, approximately 6.0 
miles of failed streets remain from the original 22 miles that were identified in 2013, which was identified as the Smooth 
Streets Program. Funding from the bonds will be utilized to accelerate street improvement projects, and we are on target 
to complete the Smooth Streets Program and  eliminate the remaining 6.0 miles of failed streets by 2026. Funding from the 
bonds will also be utilized to finance flood control improvements, which will take the North Shoreview neighborhood off the 
FEMA flood map and save residents from the cost of flood insurance.  
The 2023 – 2028 Capital Improvement Program (CIP) includes $13.8 million in Bikeway/Pedestrian capital improvements, 
which include $5.8 million for the 101/92 Multi-Modal Fashion Island Class IV Bike Lane project. The 2023 – 2028 CIP has 
nearly 4X the amount of funds included for Bikeway/Pedestrian CIP projects than the 2021 – 2025 CIP, reflecting the City’s 
investment in the projects identified in the Bicycle Master Plan 2020. 
Table 3: 10-Year Pension Contributions & Local 1% Sales Tax Projection
10
447 of 763

--- page 448 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
Carrying on the Clean Water Program, Smooth Streets Program, flood control improvements, and bicycle/pedestrian 
initiatives like the above are a testament to the investment and commitment we make to our community, even as we face 
economic uncertainty and volatility. The work continues, and I am confident that the investments we are making now will 
position our community for long-term success. 
Affordable Housing 
In partnership with MidPen Housing, the City is on target to deliver Kiku Crossing, a 100% affordable 7-story apartment 
building that will provide 225 homes for low- income residents as well as a new 5-story parking garage with 688 spaces, 
which includes 524 publicly-accessible spaces. The garage is expected to open later this summer and the affordable 
housing community will start welcoming new residents in the spring of 2024. The City is contributing land under a long-term 
ground lease as well as $12.5 million towards construction, while other funding for the $170 million development comes 
from a $5.2 million loan from the County of San Mateo, a $3.8 million loan from the Housing Endowment and Regional Trust 
(HEART) of San Mateo County, loans from the California Housing Finance Agency, financing from Bank of America, federal 
tax credits, and tax- exempt bonds. 
Another example of partnering with public and private entities to bring affordable housing developments to fruition is 
Bespoke, which is proposed 5-7 story mixed-use development that would add 60 units of affordable housing, 156,000 
square feet of retail and office space and 128 underground parking spaces. The site includes the City’s parking lot on 4th 
Avenue and the former Talbot’s Toy Store. 
The Kiku Crossing and Bespoke developments are examples of partnerships with public and private entities that the City 
will continue to pursue in the future to address the community priority of affordable housing. 
Measure S 
Measure S, the 0.25% transactions and use tax extension, maintains funding for its core priorities, which include safety, 
public services, and infrastructure improvements. The proposed 2023-24 budget appropriates $3.85 million in Measure 
S funds for CIP projects, including $1.0 million for improvements to the Police Department roof, $0.9 million for external 
radio infrastructure, $0.8 million for citywide street reconstruction, $0.5 million for synthetic field replacement, $0.4 million 
for the stormwater system management and improvement program, and $0.25 million for replacement of the Bermuda 
Drive Bridge. While Measure S revenues experienced some retraction result of COVID-19, they were not impacted to the 
same degree as sales tax revenues due to differences in tax law. The local 1% sales tax is assessed, collected, allocated, 
and remitted pursuant to the Bradley Burns Uniform Sales and Use Tax Law, while the Measure S ¼ cent transactions 
and use tax is under the State of California’s District Tax Law. Revenues will continue to be monitored carefully, and 
recommendations on funding adjustments will be presented to the Measure S Oversight Committee as appropriate. 
Investment in Core Services 
The City continues to invest in core services, including public safety, library, and parks and recreation. This is consistent with 
the City’s focused efforts to maintain services levels during COVID-19 to provide service to the San Mateo community when 
it needed them the most. 
The proposed 2023-24 budget includes increases in certain services, largely in high-priority/high-visibility issues, such as 
planning and engineering, to provide enhanced service levels while maintaining fiscal discipline. 
The Housing Element, which is currently being modified in response to comments from the California Department of 
Housing and Community Development (HCD), provides for the City to resume contributing 20% of the City’s share of 
residual property tax from the former redevelopment agency (RDA), also known as boomerang funds, toward the housing 
set aside, which can be used as a funding source for affordable housing projects. In conjunction with the City’s Linkage Fee 
Fund and future partnerships with public and private entities, the City is positioned to continue pursuing affordable housing 
developments in the future.
11
448 of 763

--- page 449 ---
Transmittal of Proposed Budget
Concluding Remarks 
I remain optimistic about the City’s ability to continue investing in its capital and infrastructure improvements amid the 
uncertain and volatile economic headwinds. The City’s present fiscal position reflects the discipline and prudence of the 
City Council in the period of economic recovery and growth that followed the Great Recession. The General Fund Long-
Term Financial Plan illustrates the long-term strength of the City’s fiscal position, which anticipates drawing on the Rainy Day 
Reserve from $71.5 million in 2023 to $12.6 million in 2031 to maintain core services and invest in capital and infrastructure 
improvements. Absent the Rainy Day Reserves, the proposed 2023-24 budget and the General Fund Long-Term Financial 
Plan would have needed to evaluate service level reductions. 
The development and delivery of the recommended budget to the City Council is the culmination of months of work from 
staff throughout the organization, and it is a true team effort. First and foremost, I would like to thank the City Council for 
articulating a vision and setting priorities that helped us develop the budget. I would also like to thank the executive team, 
along with their respective staff members, for their efforts in supporting the budget development process. And finally, I’d 
like to thank the members of the Finance Department, led by Finance Director Rich Lee, who drove the process to develop 
the budget and prepare this document.
Respectfully submitted,
Drew Corbett, City Manager
12
449 of 763

--- page 450 ---


--- page 451 ---
City Council Vision
San Mateo
•
Is a pre-eminent City between San Francisco and San Jose.
•
Has strong, attractive commercial areas and viable, wholesome neighborhoods.
•
Has a solid, healthy economic and financial base that cultivates innovation and technology.
•
Includes its diverse population in all facets of community life and is a nurturing place for youth.
•
Is safe and has well maintained infrastructure.
•
Is the cultural center of the County.
•
Is increasingly sustainable and a leader in reducing carbon emissions.
To achieve this vision, the San Mateo City Government will:             
•
Facilitate the effective functioning and development of the community and its citizens.
•
Ensure all elements of the community are well represented in the government process.
•
Serve as both a facilitator and a provider in seeing that community needs and desires are addressed through the most
appropriate, effective delivery system whether it is public, non-public, or public/private partnership.
•
Serve as a consensus builder in the community and articulate collective direction.
•
Maintain a responsive, capable staff dedicated to serving the community in a non-bureaucratic manner and provide
high value for the expenditure of public funds.
•
Look to the long-term future of the community and seek constant improvement, including increasing sustainability and
reducing the community's carbon footprint.
•
Be a full partner in the sharing of common services and regional affairs that affect the City.
14
451 of 763

--- page 452 ---
City Council Strategic Direction
The strategic directions express key targets that must be accomplished to achieve its vision. These strategic directions are:
Safe, Clean, and Attractive Neighborhoods
•
Ensure higher levels of public safety, especially in neighborhoods under the most stress.
•
Enhance the quality of residential neighborhoods by encouraging improved appearance and more community
involvement.
Successful Businesses and a Solid Tax Base
•
Increase the economic vitality of the City with strengthened ties between business and the general community.
A Community Where Residents Can Flourish and Youth are Nurtured
•
Continue to encourage involvement of youth in our community by improving programs for children, pre-teens, and
teens.
•
Continue to support efforts to improve access to and affordability of early childhood care and education.
Orderly Planning, Development, and Functioning of the Community
•
Support future growth and redevelopment in Downtown, other commercial areas, and along the transportation
corridor to ensure a well-planned environment and promote a high quality of life.
•
Continue efforts to increase entry-level housing, strive for a balance between jobs and housing, and provide
incentives for City employees to live in San Mateo.
•
Continue to invest in the long-term infrastructure needs of the City and create an identity for San Mateo that generates
civic pride and responsibility.
An Open, Participative, and Effective City Government
•
Continue to provide cost-effective and quality services that are accessible to all segments of the San Mateo
community.
•
Maintain City finances where expenses do not exceed ongoing revenues.
•
Expand community outreach and participation opportunities for all who live and/or work in San Mateo.
•
Continue to cooperate with regional partners, schools, and other agencies to improve infrastructure and services,
strengthen partnerships, avoid duplication, and decrease costs.
•
Develop and maintain an organization that values employee participation and a sense of ownership.
15
452 of 763

--- page 453 ---
City Council Priorities
Items to be Completed within the Fiscal Year:
•
Design and implement capital improvements for
permanent street closure
•
Create a racial equity community art project
•
Analyze density minimums for mixed-use projects and
update the Density Bonus and Community Benefits
policies
•
Initiate a Community Budget Process for anticipated
revenue from Measure CC
•
Remove North Shoreview from FEMA Flood
Assessment
•
Study campaign finance reform policies, including
voluntary expenditure limit, disclosure requirement for
independent expenditures, and improving access for
voter education initiatives
•
Explore increasing representation of youth and
seniors on City Boards and Commissions
•
Establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings
and infrastructure and eliminate methane gas use by
2030
•
Integrate master plans to increase efficiency and
community impact
Items to be Completed within 2 to 5 Years:
•
Implement the Climate Action Plan and work to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions
•
Consider the adoption of wage theft protections
•
Explore the establishment of Property-Based
Improvement Districts
•
Explore the implementation of a Customer Response
Management or 311 system
•
Adopt a Retail Cannabis Ordinance
•
Review and update the City Charter related to
district elections, mayoral rotation, and filling Council
vacancies
•
Enhance city-wide disaster response and emergency
preparedness
•
Update the General Plan
•
Implement Housing Element Policies
•
Address structural issues at the Marina Library
•
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026
•
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to improve
safety and reliability of the street light system
•
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program
Items to be Completed in 5 or More Years:
•
Implement Library Space Master Plan
•
Implement the Central Park Master Plan
•
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater collection,
drainage, and storage system, including dredging the
Marina lagoon
•
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate
•
Implement a Green Fleet by 2030
•
Expedite efforts to produce potable water from the
Clean Water Program
•
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise at
City at-grade crossings
•
Plan for the downtown grade separations and long-
term train corridor improvements
•
Improve traffic flow on 19th Ave and Fashion Island
Boulevard from Grant to Mariners Island Boulevard
•
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian
Master Plan
16
453 of 763

--- page 454 ---
Mission
serving the San Mateo community
through collaboration, innovation,
and professionalism

| Values
Respect, Creativity, Integrity,
Transparency, Inclusivity

Organizational Principles

Engaged and accountable workforce
Working as one organization
Maintaining long-term perspective
seeking constant improvement
Leading through informed risk-taking

CITY OF SAN MATEO
ORGANIZATIONAL VISION

454 of 763


--- page 455 ---
City Profile
Location
The City of San Mateo is located in San Mateo County, on 
the Peninsula in the San Francisco Bay Area. It is bordered 
by Burlingame to the north, Foster City to the east, Belmont 
to the south, and Hillsborough to the west. The City is 
conveniently situated 19 miles south of San Francisco and 
30 miles north of San Jose. It covers an area of 15.4 square 
miles, including 3.87 square miles of tidelands from the San 
Francisco Bay to the east and a range of coastal mountains 
to the west.
The City
The City was incorporated in 1894 and was originally 
chartered in 1922. The current charter was adopted in 1971 
and revised in 2002. San Mateo has a Council-Manager 
form of government. The five Council members serve 
at-large for four-year terms. The Council selects a Mayor 
from among its members each December for a one-year 
term. The Mayor and City Council serve as the legislative 
and policy making body of the City. The City Manager, 
appointed by the Council, serves as chief executive officer 
and is responsible for the day-to-day administration of 
City affairs. The City Council also appoints a City Attorney. 
There are twelve Advisory Boards and Commissions.
Services
The City provides a full range of municipal services. 
These include police, planning, building, sewer, street 
maintenance, and general administrative services. Fire 
service is provided by the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department. Water is provided to the residents of the 
City of San Mateo by California Water Services, a private 
company. The City operates and maintains facilities for 
wastewater treatment. In addition, the City offers thirty-five 
parks, six recreation centers, three libraries, and an 18-hole 
golf course. The San Mateo Performing Arts Center hosts 
productions by numerous local, regional, and international 
artistic enterprises, including the Peninsula Ballet Theatre, 
the Peninsula Civic Light Opera, and the Peninsula 
Symphony. San Mateo has abundant shopping areas, 
including two major regional shopping centers, Hillsdale 
Shopping Mall, and Bridgepointe.
Population and Demographic 
Characteristic
Based on the California Department of Finance, the City’s 
population as of 2022 was just under 104,000, which 
represents about 13.94% of the countywide population. 
Also based on the most recent U.S. Census data, per capita 
personal income for San Mateo residents was $76,157, 
which is slightly above the amount for San Mateo County 
as a whole ($61,545) and well above the value for the State 
of California ($36,955). According to the the Employment 
Development Department, the City's unemployment rate is 
1.5%, which is slightly below the County's unemployment 
rate at 1.7%.
18
455 of 763

--- page 456 ---
City Profile
Local Economy
San Mateo is centrally located in the San Francisco Bay 
Area and has direct access to interstate highways, rail 
lines, a trans-bay bridge, public transit routes, and the 
San Francisco International Airport. San Mateo serves 
as a center of commercial and residential activity. The 
Transit Center is a multi-modal transportation hub allowing 
people to board Caltrain to destinations as far north as San 
Francisco and as far south as Gilroy.
The community is comprised of residences of all types 
and at a range of costs, major retail and commercial 
establishments, a downtown transit center, a community 
college, and two major medical centers. It is also the 
home of the San Mateo County Events Center. The robust 
economy has renewed interest in the downtown area, 
which continues to attract quality small- to medium-sized 
businesses. The main City Library, completed in 2006, 
is the cultural center of the City and benefits many local 
and regional patrons. The Police Station, completed in 
2009, serves as the headquarters to protect and serve the 
residents in the City.
City Statistical Data
Miscellaneous statistical data for the City of San Mateo is as 
follows:
Date of Incorporation
1894
Form of Government
Council-Manager
Area in Square Miles
15.4
Capital Assets
6 Community Centers
3 Libraries
35 Parks
1 Golf Course
1 Police Station
6 Fire Stations
204 miles of streets / 7,500 street lights 260 miles of 
sanitary sewers
148 miles of storm drains
Median Age of Residents
37.8
Public School Enrollment
20,012
Top Employers
County of San Mateo Medical Center 
Sony Interactive Entertainment
San Mateo Union High School District 
San Mateo-Foster City Unified School District 
San Mateo Community College District
Franklin Templeton Investor
19
456 of 763

--- page 457 ---
City Organizational Chart
COMMUNITY  
DEVELOPMENT
PUBLIC 
WORKS
POLICE
PARKS &
RECREATION
LIBRARY
INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
FINANCE
HUMAN
RESOURCES
OPERATING DEPARTMENTS
CITY MANAGER
CITY CLERK
CITY ATTORNEY
CITY COUNCIL
COMMUNITY OF SAN MATEO
BOARDS & COMMISSIONS
Civic Arts Committee
Community Relations Commission
Investment Advisory Committee
Library Board
Measure S Oversight Committee
Mosquito and Vector Control District
Parks & Recreation Commission
Personnel Board
Planning Commission
Senior Citizens Commission
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
Youth Advisory Council
Mayor
Deputy Mayor
Council Member
Council Member
Council Member
City Manager
City Attorney
City Council
Amourence Lee
Lisa Diaz Nash
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
Rich Hedges
Drew Corbett
Prasanna Rasiah
Assistant City Manager 
City Clerk
City Librarian
Community Development Director
Finance Director
Human Resources Director
Information Technology Director
Parks and Recreation Director
Police Chief
Public Works Director
Department Heads
Kathy Kleinbaum
Patrice Olds
James Moore
Christina Horrisberger
Rich Lee
Teresa Abrahamsohn
Pete Owen
Joanne Magrini
Ed Barberini
Azalea Mitch
20
457 of 763

--- page 458 ---
Basis of Budgeting
Fund Accounting Budget System
The City of San Mateo’s budget is organized on the 
basis of the fund accounting system, in which each fund 
is considered a separate budgeting entity. Government 
resources are allocated to and expenses accounted for 
in individual funds based upon the purposes for which 
they are to be spent and the means by which spending 
activities are controlled. All operating funds’ budgets lapse 
at the end of the adoption cycle. The capital projects fund 
appropriations are valid for the life of the projects. The City 
also maintains an encumbrance accounting system as one 
technique of accomplishing budgetary control. Encumbered 
amounts in the operating budget lapse one year after 
the end of the fiscal year. There is no formal provision in 
departmental budgets for depreciation and compensated 
absences (i.e. accrued vacation and sick leave time), but 
they are budgeted as internal services fund charges. The 
following fund types are used by the City:
Governmental Fund Types
All governmental fund budgets are accounted for using 
a current financial resources measurement focus and a 
modified accrual basis.
General Fund
This fund accounts for all financial resources not required 
to be accounted for in other funds, and is the general 
operating fund of the City. The General Fund has four sub-
funds: the Measure S Tracking sub-fund, the Downtown 
Services sub-fund, the Recreation Services sub-fund, and 
the Golf sub-fund.
Special Revenue Funds
These funds account for the City’s revenues from sources 
which, by law or administrative action, are designated to 
finance particular functions or activities other than capital 
projects or expendable trusts.
Debt Service Funds
These funds account for the accumulation of financial 
resources for and the payment of principal, interest, and 
related costs on general long-term debt.
Capital Programs Funds
These funds account for financial resources to be used 
for the acquisition or construction of major capital facilities 
(other than those financed by Proprietary Fund Types).
Proprietary Fund Types
All proprietary fund budgets are accounted for on a flow of 
economic resources measurement focus and a full accrual 
basis.
Enterprise Funds
This fund accounts for operations of the City that are 
financed and operated in a manner similar to private 
business enterprises.
Internal Service Funds
These funds account for the financing of services provided 
by one department to other departments on a cost- 
reimbursement basis.
Budgetary Controls
Effective July 1, 1986, the City implemented a two-year 
budget cycle. The two-year budget process requires that 
each department submit two one-year expenditure plans 
and revenue estimates to the City Council for approval. 
Only the first of the two years’ budget will be adopted. In 
each alternate year, City staff makes recommendations to 
the City Council for amending the second-year plan. In any 
budget cycle, to remain adaptable to changing economic 
and/or operational conditions, the City may choose to 
develop one-year instead of two-year budget plans. 
The Department Heads are responsible for containing 
expenditures within their budgeted appropriations as 
approved by the City Council. Subsequent to the adoption 
of the budget, all additional changes to the budget require 
City Council approval.
Activities of the General Fund, Special Revenue Funds, 
Debt Service Funds, Proprietary, and Capital Funds are 
included in the annual budget. The level of budgetary 
control is the department within each fund.
21
458 of 763

--- page 459 ---
Budget Preparation Timeline
July Through September
•
Departments report out on performance and workload
indicators from the previous fiscal year.
•
Encumbrances and capital project carryovers are
incorporated into department budgets and long-term
financial plans of each applicable fund.
•
Preliminary financial results from the previous fiscal
year are reported to Council.
•
Initial scoping meetings are held between Department
Heads and the City Manager to discuss any significant
changes to the departmental operating or capital
budget that will be proposed for the upcoming cycle.
October Through December
•
Schedule for the development of the following
fiscal year’s budget is established and distributed to
departments.
•
Final financial results from the previous fiscal year,
in the form of the Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report, are presented to Council.
•
Development of internal service charges and cost
allocations begins.
•
Budget direction and guidance are provided to
departments.
Like any large, complex organization, the process to develop and produce the budget is continuous throughout the fiscal 
year, which runs from July 1 to June 30. The major activities and milestones are as follows:
January Through March
•
City Council holds its annual goal setting session to
identify budget priorities.
•
Annual mid-year financial report is delivered to
Council.
•
Departmental operating and/or capital budget
requests are received and evaluated by Finance and
the City Manager’s Office.
•
Revenue projections for major General Fund tax
revenues are finalized.
April Through June
•
City Council approves Master Fee Schedule during a
public hearing.
•
Long-term financial plans for applicable funds are
finalized.
•
Study session is held with Council to introduce
major components of the budget and receive final
feedback and guidance prior to the delivery of the
recommended budget.
•
City Council holds two public hearings on the
recommended budget.
•
Final budget adopted by the City Council.
22
459 of 763

--- page 460 ---
Budget Preparation Process
2023-24 Budget Development Process
The City is on a two-year budget cycle, and it alternates its budget preparation focus between the operating budget and the 
capital budget. For the 2022-23 budget year, the focus was on the operating budget. The primary focus was establishing 
a baseline budget. The final service level set for 2022-23 was maintained for the 2023-24 budget. As such, updates to the 
2023-24 operating budget primarily focused on adjusting salary and benefits amounts to accommodate changes in costs, 
as well as updating General Fund revenues to reflect revised projections. 
The development of the 2023-24 budget began in the second half of calendar year 2022, as the Capital Improvement 
Program (CIP) Committee convened to scope out the plan for collection, evaluating, and funding the projects included 
in the 5-year CIP. This committee consists of the City Manager, Assistant City Manager, Finance Director, Public Works 
Director, and Parks and Recreation Director. The collection phase of the process consisted of evaluating the status of the 
currently budgeted projects in the 5-year CIP, inventorying all existing unfunded projects, and identifying any new capital 
requests. Once that was completed, the departments, primarily Public Works and Parks and Recreation, updated cost 
estimates for all existing projects, funded and unfunded, and established initial estimated for new capital projects. The CIP 
Committee then developed an initial list of priority projects for funding, which predominantly consisted of existing projects 
that had been previously slated for funding. In parallel, staff from Finance, Public Works, and Parks and Recreation updated 
revenue estimated from the various project funding sources to determine the overall capacity to fund priority projects. The 
CIP Committee utilized this information to then make final funding decisions on projects for the 2023-28 5-year CIP. This 
process concluded in mid-March, and once the final determinations were made on funded and unfunded projects, staff 
began the process of updating project charters and project financials for inclusion into the budget document. 
In mid-April, staff presented City Council with a preview of the recommended budget which primarily focused on General 
Fund revenues, the long-term financial plan, and pension related costs. Staff incorporated Council feedback and finalized 
numbers for the 2023-24 budget, which included five- and ten-year financial plans for each of the applicable funds. 
Attention then turned towards the design and creation of the budget document. The proposed 2023-24 budget document 
was delivered at the first City Council meeting in June and public hearings were held with the final budget adopted before 
June 30.
23
460 of 763

--- page 461 ---
GFOA Financial Reporting Award
Government Finance Officers Association
Certificate of 
Achievement
for Excellence
in Financial 
Reporting
Presented to
City of San Mateo
California
For its Annual Comprehensive
Financial Report
For the Fiscal Year Ended
June 30, 2021
Executive Director/CEO
24
461 of 763

--- page 462 ---
GFOA Budget Award
 	

			
  
    	
   	

  	 
		








25
462 of 763

--- page 463 ---
CSMFO Budget Award
California Society of 
Municipal Finance Officers 
Certificate of Award
Operating Budget Excellence Award
Fiscal Year 2020-2021
Presented to the
City of San Mateo
For meeting the criteria established to achieve the CSMFO Excellence Award in Budgeting
January 31, 2021
Marcus Pimentel
Michael Manno, Chair
CSMFO President
Recognition Committee
Dedicated Excellence in Municipal Financial Reporting
26
463 of 763

--- page 464 ---
Baas

ee

ee ee



--- page 465 ---
Citywide Sources of Funding
CATEGORY
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Property Tax
 $    74,796,573  $    82,305,678  $    80,071,293 
Sales Tax
       33,408,980        32,841,385        35,208,160 
Property Transfer Tax
       14,344,715        11,100,000          8,000,000 
Transient Occupancy Tax
         4,327,497          3,771,250          7,000,000 
Business License Tax
         6,911,680          6,179,303          6,302,889 
Franchises
         3,117,140          3,156,064          3,193,385 
Building and Other Permits
         6,525,364        12,234,000          7,234,000 
Capital Contribution
       21,390,541          5,324,047          5,415,527 
Charges for Services
       81,254,796        90,266,377        91,033,097 
Department In Lieu Payments
         6,161,791          6,352,203          6,488,762 
Fines, Forfeitures, and Penalties
         2,201,171          1,881,000          1,881,000 
Impact Fees
            687,799          2,800,000          2,705,482 
Intergovernmental
       23,286,199        13,899,593        17,387,951 
Investment Income
        (7,036,405)
         4,699,000          5,057,000 
Special Assessments
         4,554,025          5,557,214        13,746,296 
Other
         9,317,792          7,067,190          5,154,978 
Total Citywide Sources of Funding
 $   285,249,658 
 $   289,434,304 
 $   295,879,820 
*Fees and Charges include charges for services; fines, forfeitures, and penalties; franchises; impact fees; special assessments.
**Tax Revenues include property tax, sales tax, property transfer tax, transient occupancy tax, business license tax.
2%
2%
2%
38%
6%
2%
46%
2%
CITYWIDE SOURCES OF FUNDING 
2023‐24 ($295.9 MILLION)
 Building and Other Permits
 Capital Contribution
 Department In Lieu Payments
 Fees and Charges
 Intergovernmental
 Investment Income
 Tax Revenues
 Other
28
465 of 763

--- page 466 ---
Citywide Sources of Funding
FUND
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
General Funds
General
 $           141,688,458  $        140,903,673  $           140,389,551 
Measure S Tracking
                  6,965,952                7,160,000                   7,314,000 
Downtown Services
                  3,874,266                2,357,567                   2,362,966 
Recreation Services
                  3,119,699                3,571,224                   3,571,224 
Golf
                  3,551,302                3,240,250                   3,240,250 
General Funds Total
 $           159,199,677  $        157,232,714  $           156,877,991 
Special Revenue Funds
Police Grants and Safety
 $                  416,511  $               731,620  $                  569,539 
Solid Waste
                  3,620,850                3,427,160                   3,432,160 
HOME
                       86,796                     15,000                        15,000 
Community Development Block Grant
                  1,774,130                   740,000                      704,000 
Advance Planning
                     906,210                2,075,603                   1,842,000 
Construction Services
                  7,741,384                8,799,100                   8,820,100 
Gas Tax
                  2,167,996                3,016,154                   3,030,448 
City Housing
                     149,789                     84,000                        34,000 
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset
                     192,987                   278,000                      287,000 
Parks and Recreation Revenue
                    (192,336)                2,423,054                 10,967,136 
Traffic Impact Fee
                         4,387                2,532,000                   2,537,482 
Commercial Linkage Fee
                         7,476                5,109,000                      125,000 
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account
                  2,021,962                2,363,876                   2,631,190 
Permanent Local Housing Allocation
                     174,977                1,031,409                      500,000 
Landfill
                     517,574                   654,000                      655,000 
Special Revenue Funds Total
 $             19,590,695  $          33,279,976  $             36,150,055 
Debt Service Funds
Street and Flood Control Projects Bond
 $                     (7,927)
 $                         -    $                            - 
General Obligation Bonds
                  2,320,194                2,138,250                   2,148,050 
2% Hotel Tax
                     650,369                   538,750                   1,000,000 
Debt Service Funds Total
 $               2,962,636  $            2,677,000  $               3,148,050 
Capital Improvement Projects Funds
Capital Improvement Project
 $             12,618,460  $          10,251,914  $             12,764,825 
Capital Improvement Projects Funds Total
 $             12,618,460  $          10,251,914  $             12,764,825 
Enterprise Funds
Sewer
 $             91,701,421  $          85,460,700  $             86,246,900 
Enterprise Funds Total
 $             91,701,421  $          85,460,700  $             86,246,900 
Internal Service Funds*
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
 $               1,301,156  $            1,997,522  $               2,190,909 
Fleet and Building Maintenance
                  5,406,903                5,522,149                   5,852,465 
Benefits
                39,439,371              42,478,685                 44,802,199 
Dental
                     801,735                   762,000                      785,000 
Workers’  Compensation
                  4,071,096                3,891,000                   4,110,000 
Comprehensive Liability
                  1,629,156                2,265,000                   2,825,000 
Internal Service Funds Total
 $             52,649,418  $          56,916,356  $             60,565,573 
Total Citywide Sources of Funding
 $           285,249,658  $        289,434,304  $           295,879,820 
* For Internal Service Funds, only investment income is included in the Total Citywide Sources of Funding.
29
466 of 763

--- page 467 ---
City Operating Budget
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
City Attorney
 $          1,375,236  $          1,720,755  $          1,503,578 
City Clerk
896,187              1,073,678 
862,087 
City Council
304,992 
410,513 
356,898 
City Manager
             2,302,795              2,961,554              2,729,951 
Community Development
           20,516,951            15,794,640            15,450,294 
Finance
             3,936,796              4,304,505              4,179,696 
Human Resources
             2,104,301              2,340,102              2,284,816 
Information Technology
             4,020,396              4,755,428              4,814,162 
Library
             7,645,000              8,659,504              8,925,860 
Parks and Recreation
           18,591,082            21,329,979            21,666,729 
Police
           51,843,793            56,719,287            58,845,018 
Public Works
           34,798,605            42,964,767            44,686,932 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Contribution and Fire Legacy Costs
           31,312,121            32,845,860            34,279,728 
Non-Departmental
           27,511,484            23,843,873            38,498,169 
Total City Operating Budget
 $   207,159,739 
 $   219,724,445 
 $   239,083,917 
Department totals shown in millions.
* Citywide Administration includes these departments: City Attorney, City Clerk, City Council, City Manager, Finance, Human Resources, and IT.
Totals do not include internal services.
DEPARTMENT
$38.5 
$34.3 
$44.7 
$58.8 
$21.7 
$8.9 
$15.5 
$16.7 
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
CITYWIDE OPERATIONS BY DEPARTMENT
2023-24  ($239.1 MILLION)
Citywide Administration*
Community Development
Library
Parks and Recreation
Police
Public Works
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
Contribution and Fire Legacy Costs
Non-Departmental
30
467 of 763

--- page 468 ---
City Operating Budget
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Salaries and Wages
 $          60,243,840  $          69,726,927  $          73,130,145 
Benefits
             34,763,480              42,397,485              43,898,352 
Operating
             80,840,297              74,754,173              87,775,691 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Contribution and Fire Legacy Costs
             31,312,121              32,845,860              34,279,728 
Total City Operating Budget
207,159,739
$      
219,724,445
$      
239,083,917
$      
CATEGORY
Totals do not include internal services.
31%
18%
37%
14%
CITYWIDE OPERATIONS BY CATEGORY
2023-24  ($239.1 MILLION)
Salaries and Wages
Benefits
Operating
San Mateo Consolidated Fire
Department Contribution and Fire
Legacy Costs
31
468 of 763

--- page 469 ---
City Operating Budget
FUND
 2021-22
ACTUALS 
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
General Funds
General
 $             121,118,852  $             132,853,256  $             137,871,879 
Measure S Tracking
1,712,265 
2,038,666 
2,118,775 
Downtown Services
3,895,739 
4,852,348 
4,645,244 
Recreation Services
7,727,741 
9,407,271 
9,546,193 
Golf
3,039,195 
3,292,921 
3,332,729 
General Funds Total
 $             137,493,791  $             152,444,462  $             157,514,820 
Special Revenue Funds
Police Grants and Safety
 $
426,520  $
1,076,456  $
863,856 
Solid Waste
1,890,702 
2,719,926 
3,272,189 
HOME
655,434 
10,000 
10,000 
Community Development Block Grant
763,795 
502,076 
252,899 
Advance Planning
1,514,332 
1,904,075 
1,422,665 
Construction Services
9,932,380 
11,797,587 
12,459,069 
City Housing
48,476 
228,500 
198,500 
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset
2,934,340 
148,793 
146,399 
Parks and Recreation Revenue
16,866 
16,390 
16,882 
Commercial Linkage Fee
4,005,141 
4,936 
5,084 
Permanent Local Housing Allocation
198,376 
500,000 
500,000 
Landfill 
72,943 
97,358 
96,586 
Special Revenue Funds Total
 $
22,459,303  $
19,006,097  $
19,244,129 
Debt Service Funds
Street and Flood Control Projects Bond
 $
2,663,280  $
2,692,749  $
2,691,764 
General Obligation Bonds
2,079,265 
2,098,428 
2,107,913 
2% Hotel Tax
595,887 
860,667 
976,889 
Debt Service Funds Total
 $
5,338,432  $
5,651,844  $
5,776,566 
Enterprise Funds
Sewer
 $
41,868,213  $
42,622,042  $
56,548,402 
Enterprise Funds Total
 $
41,868,213  $
42,622,042  $
56,548,402 
Total City Operating Budget
 $             207,159,739  $             219,724,445  $             239,083,917 
Internal Service Funds*
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
 $
1,766,844  $
9,544,779  $
8,890,507 
Fleet and Building Maintenance
5,072,540 
5,903,135 
5,925,519 
Benefits
39,821,861 
42,233,889 
44,256,881 
Dental
514,465 
770,000 
808,000 
Workers’  Compensation
(1,242,449)
4,273,937 
4,324,619 
Comprehensive Liability
3,735,078 
2,789,361 
3,460,905 
Internal Service Funds Total
 $
49,668,340  $
65,515,102  $
67,666,430 
* Informational figures only.  Not included in totals since they are already included in departmental budgets.
32
469 of 763

--- page 470 ---
Schedule of Interfund Transfers
FUND
In
Out
General Fund
From Measure S Tracking Fund
339,032
$                   
-
$                           
From Construction Services Fund
5,499,933
-
                             
From Gas Tax Fund
1,747,500
-
                             
To Downtown Services Fund
-
                             
2,282,278
                  
To Recreation Services Fund
-
                             
5,974,969
                  
To Golf Fund
-
                             
92,479
                       
To Capital Improvement Program Fund
-
                             
12,250,000
                
To Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund
-
                             
410,000
                     
Total
7,586,465
$                
21,009,726
$              
Measure S Tracking Fund
To General Fund
-
$                           
339,032
$                   
To Street and Flood Control Projects Bond Fund
-
                             
2,691,887
                  
To Capital Improvement Projects Fund
-
                             
3,850,000
                  
Total
-
$                           
6,880,919
$                
Downtown Services Fund
From General Fund
2,282,278
$                
-
$                           
Total
2,282,278
$                
-
$                           
Recreation Services Fund
From General Fund
5,974,969
$                
-
$                           
Total
5,974,969
$                
-
$                           
Golf Fund
From General Fund
92,479
$                     
-
$                           
Total
92,479
$                     
-
$                           
Solid Waste Fund
To Capital Improvement Projects Fund
-
$                           
750,000
$                   
Total
-
$                           
750,000
$                   
Community Development Block Grant Fund
To Capital Improvement Projects Fund
-
$                           
610,000
$                   
Total
-
$                           
610,000
$                   
Construction Services Fund
To General Fund
-
$                           
5,499,933
$                
To Capital Improvement Projects Fund
-
                             
26,000
                       
Total
-
$                           
5,525,933
$                
Gas Tax Fund
To General Fund
-
$                           
1,747,500
$                
To Capital Improvement Projects Fund
-
                             
520,000
                     
Total
-
$                           
2,267,500
$                
2023-24 PROPOSED BUDGET
Transfer
33
470 of 763

--- page 471 ---
Schedule of Interfund Transfers
FUND
In
Out
2023-24 PROPOSED BUDGET
Transfer
Parks and Recreation Revenue Fund
To Capital Improvement Projects Fund
-
$                           
3,050,000
$                
Total
-
$                           
3,050,000
$                
Traffic Impact Fee Fund
To Capital Improvement Projects Fund
-
$                           
49,860
$                     
Total
-
$                           
49,860
$                     
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account Fund
To Capital Improvement Projects Fund
-
$                           
2,000,000
$                
Total
-
$                           
2,000,000
$                
Street and Flood Control Projects Bond Fund
From Measure S Tracking Fund
2,691,887
$                
-
$                           
Total
2,691,887
$                
-
$                           
Sewer Fund
To Capital Improvement Projects Fund
-
$                           
41,360,000
$              
Total
-
$                           
41,360,000
$              
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund
From General Fund
410,000
$                   
-
$                           
To Capital Improvement Projects Fund
-
                             
400,000
                     
Total
410,000
$                   
400,000
$                   
Capital Improvement Projects Fund
From General Fund
12,250,000
$              
-
$                           
From Measure S Tracking Fund
3,850,000
                  
-
                             
From Solid Waste Fund
750,000
                     
-
                             
From Community Development Block Grant Fund
610,000
                     
-
                             
From Construction Services Fund
26,000
                       
-
                             
From Gas Tax Fund
520,000
                     
-
                             
From Parks and Recreation Revenue Fund
3,050,000
                  
-
                             
From Traffic Impact Fee Fund
49,860
                       
-
                             
From Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account Fund
2,000,000
                  
-
                             
From Sewer Fund
41,360,000
                
-
                             
From Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund
400,000
                     
-
                             
Total
64,865,860
$              
-
$                           
Total City Transfers
 $             83,903,938  $             83,903,938 
34
471 of 763

--- page 472 ---
Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Budget
CIP BUDGET
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Total City Transfers
78,470,916
$  
83,903,938
$     
Less Capital Improvement Projects Transfers
58,299,000
   
64,865,860
       
Total Operating Transfers
20,171,916
$  
19,038,078
$     
Total Capital Improvement Projects Transfers
58,299,000
$  
64,865,860
$     
Add Capital Improvement Projects Revenue & Fund Balance
9,629,973
     
13,166,166
       
Total Capital Improvement Projects Budget
67,928,973
$  
78,032,026
$     
13%
5%
53%
17%
12%
General Fund
Measure S
Sewer Fund (Clean Water Program)
Taxes, Fees, and Charges
Other Sources
35
472 of 763

--- page 473 ---
Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Personnel
DEPARTMENT
2022-23
 ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
All Funds
All Funds
City Attorney
5.00
                         
5.00
                         
City Clerk
4.23
                         
4.23
                         
City Council 
5.00
                         
5.00
                         
City Manager
7.00
                         
7.48
                         
Community Development
53.18
                       
56.18
                       
Finance
17.00
                       
17.00
                       
Human Resources
11.20
                       
11.20
                       
Information Technology
14.48
                       
14.48
                       
Library
54.32
                       
54.32
                       
Parks and Recreation
114.22
                     
114.58
                     
Police
170.40
                     
170.40
                     
Public Works
154.21
                     
158.69
                     
Total City
610.24
618.56
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
36
473 of 763

--- page 474 ---
All Funds Budget Summary
 BEGINNING FUND 
 INTERFUND 
BALANCE
TRANSFERS IN
General Funds
General 1
97,011,607
$
 
140,389,551
$
 
7,586,465
$
 
Measure S Tracking
 8,256,610
 7,314,000
- 
Downtown Services
 -
 2,362,966
 2,282,278
Recreation Services
 -
 3,571,224
5,974,969
  
Golf
 -
 3,240,250
92,479
  
General Funds Total
105,268,217
$
 
156,877,991
$
 
15,936,191
$
 
Special Revenue Funds
Police Grants
294,332
$
 
569,539
$
 
-
$
 
Solid Waste
10,939,854
 
 3,432,160
 -
HOME
 433,603
 15,000
 -
Community Development Block Grant 
 208,798
 704,000
 -
Advance Planning
 4,458,990
 1,842,000
 -
Construction Services
35,319,560
 
 8,820,100
 -
Gas Tax
 (564,570)
 3,030,448
 -
City Housing 
 939,075
 34,000
 -
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset
 4,542,207
 287,000
 -
Parks and Recreation Revenue
 (2,153,972)
10,967,136
 
 -
Traffic Impact Fee
 (1,707,205)
 2,537,482
 -
Commercial Linkage Fee
 3,263,582
 125,000
 -
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account
 479,657
 2,631,190
 -
Permanent Local Housing Allocation
 (23,399)
 500,000
 -
Landfill Fund
 3,920,851
 655,000
 -
Special Revenue Funds Total
60,351,363
$
 
36,150,055
$
 
-
$
 
Debt Service Funds
Street and Flood Control Projects Bond
4,843
$
 
-
$
 
2,691,887
$
 
General Obligation Bonds
 5,970,137
 2,148,050
 -
2% Hotel Tax
13,862
 
1,000,000
 
 -
Debt Service Funds Total
5,988,842
$
 
3,148,050
$
 
2,691,887
$
 
Capital Improvement Projects Funds
Capital Improvement Projects
8,138,564
$
 
12,764,825
$
 
-
$
 
Capital Improvement Projects Funds Total
8,138,564
$
 
12,764,825
$
 
-
$
 
Enterprise Fund
Sewer
203,163,361
$
 
86,246,900
$
 
-
$
 
Enterprise Fund Total
203,163,361
$
 
86,246,900
$
 
-
$
 
Internal Service Funds 2
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
17,709,340
$
 
2,190,909
$
 
410,000
$
 
Fleet and Building Maintenance
 740,891
 5,852,465
 -
Benefits
 (125,442)
44,623,177
 
 -
Dental
 1,041,144
 785,000
 -
Workers' Compensation
 4,912,444
 4,110,000
 -
Comprehensive Liability
 866,357
2,825,000
  
- 
Internal Service Funds Total
25,144,734
$
 
60,386,551
$
 
410,000
$
 
 Total City 
 $
382,910,347  $
295,879,820  $
19,038,078 
Note: Governmental Funds are presented using a modified accrual basis and Proprietary Funds are presented using a full accrual basis
1 Vacancy savings shown in the General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan are incorporated in the amounts under the Operating column.
2 For Internal Service Funds, only transfers and investment income are included in totals.  
PROPOSED 2023-24
REVENUES
37
474 of 763

--- page 475 ---
All Funds Budget Summary
 INTERFUND 
 ENDING FUND 
TRANSFERS OUT
Operating
Transfer to CIP
BALANCE
8,759,726
$                                    
137,871,879
$                                 
12,250,000
$                                   
86,106,018
$                                   
3,030,919
                                      
2,118,775
                                      
3,850,000
                                      
6,570,916
                                      
-
                                                 
4,645,244
                                      
-
                                                 
-
                                                 
-
                                                 
9,546,193
                                      
-
                                                 
-
                                                 
-
                                                 
3,332,729
                                      
-
                                                 
-
                                                 
11,790,645
$                                   
157,514,820
$                                 
16,100,000
$                                   
92,676,934
$                                   
-
$                                               
863,856
$                                       
-
$                                               
15
$                                                
-
                                                 
3,272,189
                                      
750,000
                                         
10,349,825
                                    
-
                                                 
10,000
                                           
-
                                                 
438,603
                                         
-
                                                 
252,899
                                         
610,000
                                         
49,899
                                           
-
                                                 
1,422,665
                                      
-
                                                 
4,878,325
                                      
5,499,933
                                      
12,459,069
                                    
26,000
                                           
26,154,658
                                    
1,747,500
                                      
-
                                                 
520,000
                                         
198,378
                                         
-
                                                 
198,500
                                         
-
                                                 
774,575
                                         
-
                                                 
146,399
                                         
-
                                                 
4,682,808
                                      
-
                                                 
16,882
                                           
3,050,000
                                      
5,746,282
                                      
-
                                                 
-
                                                 
49,860
                                           
780,417
                                         
-
                                                 
5,084
                                             
-
                                                 
3,383,498
                                      
-
                                                 
-
                                                 
2,000,000
                                      
1,110,847
                                      
-
                                                 
500,000
                                         
-
                                                 
 (23,399)
-
                                                 
96,586
                                           
-
                                                 
4,479,265
                                      
7,247,433
$                                    
19,244,129
$                                   
7,005,860
$                                    
63,003,996
$                                   
-
$                                               
2,691,764
$                                    
-
$                                               
4,966
$                                           
-
                                                 
2,107,913
                                      
-
                                                 
6,010,274
                                      
-
                                                 
976,889
                                         
-
                                                 
36,973
                                           
-
$                                               
5,776,566
$                                    
-
$                                               
6,052,213
$                                    
-
$                                               
-
$                                               
13,166,166
$                                   
7,737,223
$                                    
-
$                                               
-
$                                               
13,166,166
$                                   
7,737,223
$                                    
-
$                                               
56,548,402
$                                   
41,360,000
$                                   
191,501,859
$                                 
-
$                                               
56,548,402
$                                   
41,360,000
$                                   
191,501,859
$                                 
-
$                                               
8,890,507
$                                    
400,000
$                                       
11,019,742
$                                   
-
                                                 
5,925,519
                                      
-
                                                 
667,837
                                         
-
                                                 
44,256,881
                                    
-
                                                 
240,854
                                         
-
                                                 
808,000
                                         
-
                                                 
1,018,144
                                      
-
                                                 
4,324,619
                                      
-
                                                 
4,697,825
                                      
-
                                                 
3,460,905
                                      
-
                                                 
230,452
                                         
-
$                                               
67,666,430
$                                   
400,000
$                                       
17,874,855
$                                   
 $                                  19,038,078  $                                239,083,917  $                                  78,032,026  $                                360,972,224 
EXPENDITURES
38
475 of 763

--- page 476 ---
Pension Long-Term Forecast
 2021-22 
 2022-23 
 2023-24 
 2024-25 
 2025-26 
 ACTUALS 
 ESTIMATE 
 ESTIMATE 
 ESTIMATE 
 ESTIMATE 
Pension Contribution 1
Miscellaneous
 $         9,793,882  $       10,674,214  $       10,718,343  $       11,521,576  $       11,199,117 
Safety
          14,207,333           15,287,627           16,216,253           17,262,816           18,096,556 
Total Pension Contribution
24,001,215
$        
25,961,841
$        
26,934,596
$        
28,784,392
$        
29,295,673
$        
Actuarial Unfunded Liabilities
Miscellaneous
 $       94,650,000  $       93,490,000  $       92,300,000  $       90,190,000  $       88,330,000 
Safety
        192,090,000         191,580,000         190,230,000         187,530,000         183,700,000 
Total Unfunded Liabilities
286,740,000
$      
285,070,000
$      
282,530,000
$      
277,720,000
$      
272,030,000
$      
Funded Percentage
Miscellaneous
71%
72%
73%
74%
76%
Safety
60%
61%
62%
63%
64%
Total Funded Percentage
63%
64%
65%
67%
68%
General Fund Pension Contribution as % of General 
Fund Expenditures
Miscellaneous 
4%
4%
4%
4%
4%
Safety
10%
10%
10%
11%
11%
Safety - Additional Discretionary Payment
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
Total General Fund Pension Contribution
15%
15%
14%
15%
15%
Pension Contribution as % of General Fund 
Expenditures
Miscellaneous 
7%
7%
7%
7%
7%
Safety
10%
11%
10%
11%
11%
Safety - Additional Discretionary Payment
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
Total Pension Contribution
18%
18%
17%
18%
18%
Total Pension Contribution as % of Covered Payroll 3
Miscellaneous 
27%
25%
24%
25%
24%
Safety
82%
84%
84%
88%
90%
Safety - Additional Discretionary Payment
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
Total Pension Contribution  
44%
43%
42%
43%
43%
1 This is the City's cost after accounting for employees' cost-sharing.  
2 General Fund Expenditures only. Transfers out is not included
3 Percentage increases for Safety plan are primarily due to the City's fire operations transferred to a new JPA agency in January 2019, resulting in less covered payrol
   but with the unfunded liabilities remaining as the City's responsibility
39
476 of 763

--- page 477 ---
Pension Long-Term Forecast
 2026-27 
 2027-28 
 2028-29 
 2029-30 
 2030-31 
 2031-32 
 2032-33 
 ESTIMATE 
 ESTIMATE 
 ESTIMATE 
 ESTIMATE 
 ESTIMATE 
 ESTIMATE 
 ESTIMATE 
 $            11,834,116  $            12,320,259  $            13,403,301  $            13,685,410  $            13,969,121  $            13,696,614  $            13,781,645 
               18,909,766                19,611,492                21,032,223                21,489,767                21,948,635                21,560,911                21,631,148 
30,743,883
$            
31,931,752
$            
34,435,525
$            
35,175,177
$            
35,917,756
$            
35,257,525
$            
35,412,794
$            
 $            85,690,000  $            82,400,000  $            77,780,000  $            72,630,000  $            66,910,000  $            61,170,000  $            55,170,000 
             178,680,000              172,550,000              164,450,000              155,360,000              145,200,000              134,870,000              123,940,000 
264,370,000
$          
254,950,000
$          
242,230,000
$          
227,990,000
$          
212,110,000
$          
196,040,000
$          
179,110,000
$          
77%
78%
80%
82%
84%
85%
87%
66%
67%
69%
71%
74%
76%
78%
69%
71%
73%
75%
77%
79%
81%
4%
4%
4%
4%
4%
4%
4%
11%
11%
12%
12%
12%
11%
11%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
15%
15%
16%
16%
16%
15%
15%
7%
7%
7%
7%
7%
7%
7%
11%
11%
12%
12%
11%
11%
11%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
18%
18%
19%
19%
19%
18%
18%
24%
25%
27%
27%
27%
26%
25%
92%
94%
99%
99%
99%
95%
94%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
45%
45%
48%
48%
48%
46%
46%
40
477 of 763

--- page 478 ---
"Oo
c
=

LL

g
Y
<
Y

Oo



--- page 479 ---
General Fund Summary
 GENERAL FUND 
 2023-24
PROPOSED
BUDGET 
Resources
Property Tax
 $             78,022,243 
Sales Tax - Local 1%
23,902,400 
Sales Tax - 1/4% Measure S
7,314,000 
Property Transfer Tax
8,000,000 
Transient Occupancy Tax
6,000,000 
Business License Tax
6,302,889 
Franchises
3,193,385 
Golf Fees
3,174,250 
Recreation Service Charges
3,567,724 
Permits, Fees, and Fines
4,632,500 
Intergovernmental
2,806,774 
Interest and Miscellaneous
3,473,063 
Transfers In - In Lieu Charges
4,688,762 
Transfers In - Rent from Sewer Fund
1,800,000 
Transfers In - Construction Services
499,933 
Transfers In - Gas Tax
1,747,500 
Current Resources
 $           159,125,424 
Use Unassigned Fund Balance
 $             12,591,283 
Total Resources
 $           171,716,707 
Expenditures by Department
City Attorney
 $
1,212,087 
City Clerk
862,087 
City Council
356,898 
City Manager
2,617,253 
Community Development
1,946,275 
Finance
4,176,442 
Human Resources
2,284,816 
Information Technology
4,695,904 
Library
8,925,860 
Parks and Recreation
21,666,729 
Police
57,981,162 
Public Works
12,159,747 
Non-Departmental
4,349,833 
Transfers Out
14,201,887 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Contribution and Fire Legacy Costs
34,279,728 
Total Expenditures
 $           171,716,707 
Resources Over  /  (Under)  Expenditures
 $
-
42
479 of 763

--- page 480 ---
General Fund Summary
Department totals shown in millions.
*Citywide Administration includes these departments: City Attorney, City Clerk, City Council, City Manager, Finance, Human Resources, and Information Technology.
City Administration
$16.2 
Community 
Development
$1.9 
Library
$8.9 
Parks and 
Recreation
$21.7 
Police
$58.0 
Public Works
$12.2 
Non-Departmental
$4.3 
Transfers Out
$14.2 
San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire 
Department 
Contribution and Fire 
Legacy Costs
$34.3 
GENERAL FUND OPERATIONS BY DEPARTMENT
2023‐24 ($171.7 MILLION)
43
480 of 763

--- page 481 ---
General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan
10-YEAR FORECAST
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
91,958,255
$      
111,452,010
$    
111,946,448
$    
99,355,165
$      
91,891,080
$      
Current Resources
Property Tax
72,348,403
$      
80,114,046
$      
78,022,243
$      
80,105,672
$      
85,428,032
$      
Sales Tax - Local 1%
22,157,057
        
23,482,300
        
23,902,400
        
24,765,000
        
25,700,100
        
Sales Tax - 1/4% Measure S
6,965,952
          
7,179,000
          
7,314,000
          
7,576,000
          
8,153,000
          
Property Transfer Tax
14,344,715
        
6,300,000
          
8,000,000
          
8,000,000
          
8,000,000
          
Transient Occupancy Tax
3,901,992
          
5,000,000
          
6,000,000
          
7,000,000
          
8,000,000
          
Business License Tax
6,686,853
          
6,179,303
          
6,302,889
          
6,428,947
          
6,557,526
          
Franchises
3,117,140
          
3,156,064
          
3,193,385
          
3,257,253
          
3,322,398
          
Golf Fees
3,465,658
          
3,174,250
          
3,174,250
          
3,237,735
          
3,302,490
          
Recreation Service Charges
2,916,078
          
3,567,724
          
3,567,724
          
3,639,078
          
3,711,860
          
Permits, Fees, and Fines
5,723,723
          
4,632,500
          
4,632,500
          
4,725,150
          
4,819,653
          
Intergovernmental
12,233,722
        
2,717,958
          
2,806,774
          
2,862,910
          
2,920,168
          
Interest and Miscellaneous
(823,409)
            
3,406,284
          
3,473,063
          
3,542,525
          
3,613,375
          
Transfers In - In Lieu Charges
4,361,791
          
4,552,203
          
4,688,762
          
4,782,537
          
4,878,188
          
Transfers In - Rent from Sewer Fund
1,800,000
          
1,800,000
          
1,800,000
          
1,800,000
          
1,800,000
          
Transfers In - Construction Services
471,235
             
485,372
             
499,933
             
514,931
             
530,379
             
Transfers In - Gas Tax
1,747,500
          
1,747,500
          
1,747,500
          
1,747,500
          
1,747,500
          
Transfers In from Downtown Parking Fund
2,363,915
          
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
Current Resources
163,782,327
$    
157,494,504
$    
159,125,424
$    
163,985,238
$    
172,484,669
$    
Use of Unassigned Fund Balance
-
$                   
-
$                   
12,591,283
$      
-
$                   
-
$                   
Total Current Resources
163,782,327
$    
157,494,504
$    
171,716,707
$    
163,985,238
$    
172,484,669
$    
Current Requirements
Salaries and Wages
47,083,339
$      
49,679,751
$      
52,948,610
$      
53,915,964
$      
54,902,666
$      
Benefits
18,957,281
        
19,510,283
        
22,342,975
        
23,236,694
        
24,166,162
        
Pension Unfunded Liability
10,208,568
        
11,697,337
        
11,440,980
        
12,861,637
        
13,126,864
        
Operating
29,938,031
        
28,601,621
        
36,502,527
        
37,232,577
        
37,977,229
        
Transfers Out
6,794,781
          
14,665,515
        
14,201,887
        
10,210,000
        
10,710,000
        
31,306,571
        
32,845,559
        
34,279,728
        
35,423,968
        
36,537,138
        
Net Reductions
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
(1,431,518)
         
(1,460,148)
         
Total Current Requirements
144,288,572
$    
157,000,066
$    
171,716,707
$    
171,449,323
$    
175,959,912
$    
Resources Over / (Under) Requirements
19,493,754
$      
494,438
$           
-
$                   
(7,464,085)
$       
(3,475,243)
$       
Total Reserves / Fund Balance
111,452,010
$    
111,946,448
$    
99,355,165
$      
91,891,080
$      
88,415,837
$      
25% Operating Reserve
34,373,448
$      
35,583,638
$      
39,378,705
$      
40,667,710
$      
41,677,515
$      
Housing Reserve
4,827,120
$        
4,827,120
$        
5,870,583
$        
6,955,784
$        
8,084,393
$        
Commitments
10,000,000
$      
2,750,000
$        
-
$                   
-
$                   
-
$                   
Remaining Fund Balance
62,251,443
$      
68,785,691
$      
54,105,878
$      
44,267,586
$      
38,653,929
$      
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
Contribution and Fire Legacy Costs
44
481 of 763

--- page 482 ---
General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
2028-29 
FORECAST
2029-30 
FORECAST
2030-31 
FORECAST
2031-32 
FORECAST
2032-33 
FORECAST
88,415,837
$      
87,403,840
$      
86,908,368
$      
84,456,376
$      
83,171,216
$        
83,153,340
$        
87,843,180
$        
88,589,822
$      
91,872,840
$      
95,281,725
$      
98,821,295
$      
102,496,548
$      
108,426,736
$      
114,672,315
$      
26,588,400
        
27,430,100
        
28,226,900
        
29,073,707
        
29,945,918
          
30,844,296
          
31,769,625
          
8,433,000
          
8,708,000
          
8,969,240
          
9,238,317
          
9,515,467
            
9,800,931
            
10,094,959
          
8,000,000
          
8,000,000
          
8,000,000
          
8,000,000
          
8,000,000
            
8,000,000
            
8,000,000
            
8,160,000
          
8,323,200
          
8,489,664
          
8,659,457
          
8,832,646
            
9,009,299
            
9,189,485
            
6,688,676
          
6,822,450
          
6,958,899
          
7,098,077
          
7,240,038
            
7,384,839
            
7,532,536
            
3,388,846
          
3,456,623
          
3,525,755
          
3,596,270
          
3,668,196
            
3,741,559
            
3,816,391
            
3,368,539
          
3,435,910
          
3,504,628
          
3,574,721
          
3,646,215
            
3,719,140
            
3,793,523
            
3,786,097
          
3,861,819
          
3,939,056
          
4,017,837
          
4,098,193
            
4,180,157
            
4,263,760
            
4,916,046
          
5,014,367
          
5,114,654
          
5,216,947
          
5,321,286
            
5,427,712
            
5,536,266
            
2,978,571
          
3,038,143
          
3,098,906
          
3,160,884
          
3,224,102
            
3,288,584
            
3,354,355
            
3,685,643
          
3,759,355
          
3,834,543
          
3,911,233
          
3,989,458
            
4,069,247
            
4,150,632
            
4,975,752
          
5,075,267
          
5,176,772
          
5,280,308
          
5,385,914
            
5,493,632
            
5,603,505
            
1,800,000
          
1,800,000
          
1,800,000
          
1,800,000
          
1,800,000
            
1,800,000
            
1,800,000
            
546,290
             
562,679
             
579,559
             
596,946
             
 614,855
 633,300
 652,299
1,747,500
          
1,747,500
          
1,747,500
          
1,747,500
          
1,747,500
            
1,747,500
            
1,747,500
            
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
177,653,183
$    
182,908,253
$    
188,247,802
$    
193,793,499
$    
199,526,336
$      
207,566,933
$      
215,977,151
$      
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
177,653,183
$    
182,908,253
$    
188,247,802
$    
193,793,499
$    
199,526,336
$      
207,566,933
$      
215,977,151
$      
55,909,102
$      
57,027,284
$      
58,074,380
$      
59,142,418
$      
60,231,816
$        
61,343,003
$        
62,476,413
$        
25,132,809
        
26,138,121
        
27,183,646
        
28,270,992
        
29,401,831
          
30,577,905
          
31,801,021
          
13,980,111
        
14,663,018
        
16,096,964
        
16,470,720
        
16,822,309
          
16,316,946
          
16,206,851
          
38,736,773
        
39,511,509
        
40,301,739
        
41,107,774
        
41,929,929
          
42,768,528
          
43,623,898
          
8,710,000
          
8,710,000
          
10,210,000
        
10,210,000
        
10,210,000
          
10,210,000
          
10,210,000
          
37,685,736
        
38,872,931
        
40,382,586
        
41,457,267
        
42,560,448
          
43,305,076
          
44,237,846
          
(1,489,351)
         
(1,519,138)
         
(1,549,521)
         
(1,580,511)
         
(1,612,121)
           
(1,644,364)
           
(1,677,251)
           
178,665,180
$    
183,403,725
$    
190,699,794
$    
195,078,659
$    
199,544,212
$      
202,877,093
$      
206,878,778
$      
(1,011,997)
$       
(495,472)
$          
(2,451,992)
$       
(1,285,160)
$       
(17,876)
$              
4,689,840
$          
9,098,373
$          
87,403,840
$      
86,908,368
$      
84,456,376
$      
83,171,216
$      
83,153,340
$        
87,843,180
$        
96,941,552
$        
42,861,133
$      
44,053,216
$      
45,509,829
$      
46,612,293
$      
47,736,583
$        
48,577,864
$        
49,586,507
$        
9,258,146
$        
10,478,850
$      
11,748,382
$      
13,068,695
$      
14,441,821
$        
15,869,871
$        
17,355,044
$        
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
-
$
 
35,284,561
$      
32,376,303
$      
27,198,166
$      
23,490,228
$      
20,974,936
$        
23,395,444
$        
$        30,000,000
45
482 of 763

--- page 483 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions
Revenues and expenditures in the fiscal year 2023-24 
budget and corresponding long-term financial plan are 
based on assumptions about the factors impacting each 
major revenue and expenditure category. For revenues, 
assumptions are largely based on economic or other 
conditions outside the City’s control. Assumptions for 
expenditures differ, however, in that in many cases, the 
assumptions are predominantly under the City’s control. 
A detailed discussion of the projection methodologies 
and major assumptions made for the fiscal year 2023-24 
budget and corresponding long-term financial plan are 
discussed in detail below.
General Fund Revenues
Revenue Estimation Methodology
All revenue assumptions and projections are reviewed and 
revised each fiscal year. Key elements that have an impact 
on major revenue sources are identified and analyzed to 
ensure that the projection methodology is as reliable as 
possible over the long term. Historical data trends indicate 
that significant swings in major revenues can occur due 
to economic cycles.  Projecting revenues based on the 
high point of the economic cycle overstates the City’s 
financial position and could result in spending patterns 
that cannot be sustained. Conversely, projecting revenues 
from the lowest point of the economic cycle understates 
the long-term financial position of the City and can cause 
unnecessary service reductions.
Property Taxes
Property Tax is the largest source of General Fund revenue, 
comprising approximately 50% of the General Fund total 
revenues. The 2023-24 property tax revenue is projected 
to be $78.0 million, a decrease of $2.0 million compared 
to the FY 2022-23 year-end estimate, as the latter includes 
funds from the State of California for the City’s share of the 
property tax in-lieu of vehicle license fees (VLF) shortfall 
from fiscal year 2020-21 of $5.7 million.  During the budget 
review in April 2023, the preliminary projection of 2023-24 
property tax revenue included $1.9 million of VLF shortfall 
from fiscal year 2021-22, assuming the State of California 
will backfill the funding. However, due to the State budget 
deficit, staff has amended the assumption to exclude the 
$1.9 million as the State of California may not amend its 
2023-24 budget to appropriate funds for the 2021-22 VLF 
shortfall.
Secured property taxes, which constitute over 60% of total 
property tax revenues, are assumed to increase 54.65% 
in 2023-24.  The increase reflects the change in assessed 
value (AV) based on the County Assessor’s Office estimated 
property tax roll. The property tax base in San Mateo has 
been very stable. The average annual growth in AV over 
the past 10 years has been 7.4%. In the long-term plan, a 
more conservative growth estimate of 4% is utilized for the 
ten-year forecast. This assumption factors in historic growth 
rates and the current economic environment.
The City’s property tax revenue includes several main 
categories:
•
Secured Property Tax is the tax on real property and
the structures on that real property.
•
AB 26 Redevelopment Residual Revenues represent
the City’s designated share of tax increment from
the former redevelopment project areas that are in
excess of the Successor Agency’s required obligated
payments. These revenues are primarily from the
secured tax base in the former redevelopment project
areas.
•
AB 1290 Redevelopment Pass-through funds
represent the City of San Mateo’s General Fund share
of the AB 1290 pass-through payments made to taxing
entities based on the tax increment funds used by
Successor Agency to pay remaining debt obligations.
Similar to the AB 26 funds, these revenues are
primarily from the secured tax base in the former
redevelopment project areas.
•
Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund (ERAF) is
a mechanism used by the State to shift funding from
local property tax dollars to public schools. When local
property tax dollars shifted into ERAF exceed what is
necessary to fund the schools, those excess funds are
returned to the local taxing entities via Excess ERAF
revenue. San Mateo is one of the five counties in the
State where Excess ERAF is generated.
•
Property Tax in Lieu of VLF represents the swap of
vehicle license fees (VLF) for property tax as part of a
state-local budget agreement in 2004. The agreement
permanently reduced the VLF tax rate from 2% to
0.65%, and the revenue loss was replaced with a like
amount from property tax. After the fiscal year 2004-
05 base year, property tax in lieu of VLF increases
annually in proportion to the growth in assessed
valuation. Property tax in lieu of VLF has two funding
sources: property taxes from non-basic aid school
districts, and ERAF that would otherwise go to non-
basic aid school districts.
•
Unsecured Property Tax represents the tax on
appurtenances such as furniture, machinery, and
equipment.
•
Supplemental Property Tax is the result of reassessing
the value of real property when there is a change of
ownership or new construction is completed after the
official lien date.
46
483 of 763

--- page 484 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions
•
Unitary Property Tax is assessed on property owned
by utilities, such as power lines, cable, etc.
•
Homeowners’ Property Tax Relief revenues are
reimbursements from the State for revenues lost due
to the homeowners’ property tax exemption on the
first $7,000 of assessed value of their principal place
of residence.
After several years of fluctuating AB 26 redevelopment 
residual revenues due to the wind down of the former 
Redevelopment Agency, this revenue source is expected 
to stabilize and provide a significant supplement to the 
City’s existing tax base going forward. The baseline 
revenue amount is projected to be $5.3 million in 2023-
24 and grow at the same rate annually as the secured 
tax projection.  Per Council direction, 20% of this residual 
revenue should be reserved annually in a housing set-aside 
in the General Fund. The City suspended this practice due 
to the immediate and severe financial impact of COVID-19 
in 2020.  As of 2022-23, the General Fund housing set-
aside reserve has amounted to $4.8 million. Policy H1.2 
of the City’s Housing Element calls for the City to resume 
contributing 20% of the AB26 redevelopment residual 
revenue to the housing set-aside, which the City can use 
for affordable housing developments.  In the 2023-24 
budget, this results in $1.0 million shifting from the Rainy 
Day Reserves to the housing set aside.
AB 1290 redevelopment pass-through funds are expected 
to remain constant since the portion of the tax increment 
that is collected by the Successor Agency to pay continuing 
obligations has stabilized. Revenues are projected to be 
approximately $1.4 million annually over the next 10 years.
The Successor Agency to the Redevelopment Agency 
of the City of San Mateo is responsible for payment of 
the remaining recognized obligations, which include tax 
allocation refunding bonds (TAB). The last debt service 
payment for the Series 2015A TAB will occur in fiscal year 
2032-33, which is the trigger event for the dissolution 
of the former Redevelopment Agency of the City of San 
Mateo. Beginning in fiscal year 2033-34, rather than 
receive AB 26 and AB 1290 property tax revenues, the 
taxing entities, which includes the City, will receive the full 
property tax increment, as all of the recognized obligations 
will be satisfied. As such, the City will need to address this 
change in advance to determine if it wants to continue 
contributing to the housing set-aside, as the AB 26 property 
tax revenue source will no longer exist beginning in fiscal 
year 2033-34.
Excess ERAF Funds continue to be a steady, yet somewhat 
uncertain, revenue source for the General Fund. The long-
term plan anticipates the continued receipt of Excess ERAF 
revenues annually. Excess ERAF is projected to be $8.2 
million in 2023-24. There have been legislative efforts to 
increase the Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF),which 
would ultimately increase funding for public school districts 
and decrease the amount of Excess ERAF that is available. 
Conversely, these efforts to increase the LCFF would 
likely shift more school districts into non-basic aid status 
and somewhat address the VLF shortfall issue, but it is 
difficult to quantify the impact until impartial analysis has 
been completed by the Legislative Analyst’s Office (LAO). 
The latest effort, AB 938 would increase the base level of 
funding for LCFF by 50% by 2030-31. Staff will continue 
to monitor this legislative effort and modify the General 
Fund Long-Term Financial Plan if it is approved by the state 
legislature and signed into law.  
Similar to excess ERAF, the property tax in lieu of VLF 
revenue grows steadily over the years but continues to 
face challenges due to VLF shortfall.  As more and more 
school districts shift to basic-aid status, the county-wide 
VLF shortfall increases. Currently, the only way to backfill 
the VLF shortfall is for the County of San Mateo, on behalf 
of itself and all the municipalities within the county, to file 
a claim with the State of California in August each year to 
backfill the previous fiscal year’s VLF shortfall, which the 
State will consider the request as a part of its new fiscal 
year budget. For the long-term plan, the VLF revenue 
was projected based on the assumption that the State of 
California will continue to honor the escalating VLF shortfall 
claims. As the number of non-basic aid school districts 
continues to reduce, it is anticipated the VLF shortfall will 
continue to grow. If every school district reaches basic aid 
status in 10 years, the county-wide VLF shortfall could reach 
upwards of $370 million by 2032-33, of which the City’s 
share would be over $20 million.
Other property tax components, including unsecured, 
supplemental secured, and unitary property tax revenues, 
as well as Homeowners’ Property Tax Relief revenues, are 
expected to remain flat due to the nature of the revenue 
source. 
Sales Tax
Sales tax revenue is currently the second largest single 
revenue source of the General Fund and one of the most 
volatile. The City’s sales tax revenue was stable during 
the recovery from the Great Recession. The COVID-19 
pandemic caused an immediate and negative impact 
on sales tax. The City experienced significant sales tax 
revenue loss during fiscal years 2019-20 and 2020-21. 
As vaccines rolled out and restrictions eased, sales tax 
47
484 of 763

--- page 485 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions
Transient Occupancy Tax
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) is dependent on both the 
occupancy levels and room rates of the City’s hotel stock. 
TOT revenue is very sensitive to broader economic trends. 
In good economic times, both occupancy rates and room 
rates increase, but during recessionary periods, both go 
down, which can result in a significant reduction in TOT 
revenue. In the City of San Mateo, the existing hotel stock 
primarily serves business travelers flying into and out of the 
San Francisco International Airport.
TOT revenues are the only tax revenue that has not 
recovered from the COVID-19 pandemic. Compared to the 
2018-19 baseline of $7.0 million, the 2023-24 General Fund 
TOT is projected to be $6.0 million. However, based on 
the latest industrial forecast, business travel is projected 
to return to the pre-pandemic levels by 2025-26, which is 
reflected in the long-term financial plan.
Business License Tax
The City of San Mateo Municipal Code requires all persons 
or businesses doing business in the City of San Mateo to 
pay an annual business tax, which is also referred to as 
a business license. The payment of this tax is required 
prior to the commencement of business in San Mateo. 
Depending on the type of business, the business license 
tax is either a flat fee or is based on gross receipts. 
Business license tax revenues have seen steady growth 
over the past decade. This revenue resource is projected 
to be $6.3 million, then grow at a modest 2% annually in the 
long-term financial plan.
Franchise Fees
The City receives franchise payments from companies 
providing garbage, electricity, gas, and cable television 
services. Modest growth is expected from this revenue 
source, 2% annually in the forecast. This revenue source 
will continue to be carefully monitored, with future growth 
projections adjusted accordingly. Overall, franchise fee 
revenues are projected to be just under $3.2 million in 
2023-24.
Golf Fees
Golf fee revenues primarily come from rounds of golf 
played, but other sources include driving range revenue 
and merchandise sales. During late summer of 2020, 
before COVID vaccines were rolled out and people were 
seeking safe, social activities they could pursue, golf saw 
record-high rounds played and increases in revenues. Golf 
fee revenues increased from pre-COVID levels (just above 
$2 million) to $3 million and $3.5 million, respectively, for 
fiscal years 2020-21 and 2021-22.  The budget projection 
is set at $3.2 million for both 2022-23 and 2023-24, with a 
moderate 2% annual growth in the long-term financial plan. 
has experienced a quicker-than-expected rebound. As of 
2022-23, sales tax revenue has recovered to pre-pandemic 
levels. Consumer behavior change has limited the growth 
of the revenue.
It is also worthwhile to note that the City’s share of the 
local 1% sales tax from internet sales is allocated through 
the County pool based on the City’s proportionate share 
of locally-generated sales tax. There have been several 
legislative efforts to allocate sales tax based on point of 
delivery, but the political will has not yet come to fruition to 
address this issue. Over the last two years, sales tax from 
the County pool has increased due to a combination of the 
new taxes from the full implementation of AB147 (Wayfair) 
and surges in online spending tied to the pandemic.  
The 2023-24 budget assumes Local 1% sales tax revenues 
(Bradley Burns) of $23.9 million and local 1/4% sales tax 
revenues (Measure S) of $7.3 million. Slow and steady 
growth is anticipated for sales tax throughout the long-term 
financial plan.
Property Transfer Tax
The City collects a real property transfer tax (RPTT) 
upon the sale or transfer of any property within the City 
boundaries. As a charter city, San Mateo voters approved a 
0.5% real property transfer tax (RPTT) rate. Furthermore, in 
the November 2022 election, San Mateo voters approved 
Measure CC that increased the RPTT rate to 1.5% for 
properties sold or transferred with a value of $10 million or 
more.
This revenue source is extremely volatile, since it is driven 
by both property values and transaction volume, which 
can vary significantly, even during periods of relatively 
stable economic growth. During the Great Recession, 
RPTT dropped 70% from $10 million to $3 million over a 
two-year period and took six years to climb back up to the 
$10-million-dollar level. In 2018-19, RPTT reached a record-
high $14.0 million, only one year later it dropped nearly 30% 
to $9 million in 2019-20 due to COVID pandemic. RPTT 
rebounded quickly and reached $14.3 million in 2021-22, 
one year later it dropped again due to the rise of mortgage 
interest rates which negatively impact the real property 
sales value and transaction volume. RPTT is anticipated to 
be $6.3 million at the close of fiscal year 2022-23. These 
examples showcased how volatile this revenue source can 
be. 
Rather than try to determine the year-over-year trend, the 
General Fund Long-Term Plan uses an average of $8.0 
million, including fiscal year 2023-24. Finance staff will 
continue to monitor market trends at the local and national 
level and adjust assumptions accordingly.
48
485 of 763

--- page 486 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions
This revenue source will continue to be carefully monitored, 
with future growth projections adjusted accordingly.
Recreation Service Charges
Recreation service charges include the revenue collected 
from the various recreation programs that are run by the 
Parks and Recreation Department, including camps, youth 
and adult programs, picnic and recreation center rentals, 
and lagoon use fees. Revenue growth in this area over 
the past several years is a function of the popularity of 
recreation programming. This revenue resource dropped 
to $1 million in 2020-21 due to COVID-19 pandemic but has 
gradually recovered as in-person programs return.  It is 
anticipated that the revenues will be $3.6 million for both 
2022-23 and 2023-24, with a 2% annual increase for the 
remainder of the ten-year long-term forecast.
Permits, Fees, and Fines
The City receives permit, fee, and fine revenues from a 
number of sources across departments, including parking 
and traffic-related citations (Police) and encroachment 
permits (Public Works). In 2021-22, the Downtown Parking 
Fund was merged into the General Fund. Parking revenues 
are reported under this revenue category in the General 
Fund.  In total, the permit, fee, and fine revenues are 
projected to be $4.6 million for 2023-24 then grow by 2% 
annually in the long-term plan. 
Intergovernmental
Intergovernmental revenues are predominantly grants 
or reimbursements from other governmental agencies, 
including other cities, the county, the state, and the federal 
government.  Because this revenue category consists 
predominantly of grants and reimbursements, many of 
which are one-time funds, revenues can fluctuate annually. 
The City has an agreement with the San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire) to provide Human 
Resources and Finance services. The amount for 2023-
24 is $ 912,202, which is reflected in the assumptions for 
the City’s intergovernmental revenues. In addition, based 
on known grants and reimbursements, total revenues are 
projected to be $2.7 million in 2022-23 and $2.8 million 
in 2023-24, and then grow modestly throughout the 
remainder of the forecast.
Interest and Miscellaneous
This revenue category includes interest earnings on the 
City’s investment portfolio and other smaller revenues 
not attached to other categories. The 2021-22 actuals 
reflected the accounting adjustment for an unrealized 
loss in the City’s investment portfolio. The adjustment is 
required by the governmental accounting standards, but it 
creates large variations from year to year in the amount of 
interest income reported. The budget for interest income 
assumes no change in the market value of the City’s 
portfolio as this measure is difficult to anticipate and does 
not adequately reflect the City’s true return on investments. 
Projections going forward for investment earnings are 
based on a 2% yield on investment. Only modest increases 
in interest income are anticipated in the ten-year forecast. 
In total, this category of revenues is expected to generate 
approximately $3.5 million in 2023-24.
In-Lieu Charges
In-lieu charges are funds transferred into the General 
Fund from other funds to cover the cost of City-wide 
administration. These costs include covering a portion of 
expenditures related to the operation of the City Manager’s 
Office, City Attorney’s Office, City Clerk, Finance, Human 
Resources, and Information Technology. It also covers costs 
such as the other funds’ share of general liability expenses. 
A total of approximately $4.7 million is projected in 2023-
24.
In-lieu charges are set to grow at a rate of 2% annually in 
the ten-year forecast. In accordance with best practices, the 
City’s cost allocation study was updated in 2020-21, and it 
is expected that the study will be maintained and updated 
on a regular basis to ensure alignment with the cost of 
providing administrative services throughout the City.
Transfers In – Gas Tax
The Gas Tax Fund is set to transfer $1.7 million annually 
to the General Fund in the long-term forecast to cover a 
portion of street maintenance costs within the Public Works 
Department. This transfer has been set at a flat amount 
annually, which means over time it will provide less and less 
funding in terms of real dollars. While the $1.7 million has 
been increased in 2018-19 from the historical transfer of 
$1.5 million, the cost of street maintenance along with the 
revenues from Gas Tax funding will be monitored closely, 
and future transfers will be adjusted accordingly.
General Fund Expenditures
Expenditure Estimation Methodology
Similar to the revenue assumptions, expenditure 
assumptions and projections are reviewed and revised 
each fiscal year. Unlike revenues, especially tax revenues, 
General Fund expenditures are largely under the control 
of the City. Because of that, assumptions for expenditure 
growth are generally able to be aligned with revenue 
growth where possible. In cases where an expenditure 
category is not under control of the City, as is the case for 
CalPERS pension expenses, the projected increases are 
treated as nondiscretionary and take precedence in terms 
49
486 of 763

--- page 487 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions
of the allocation of resources, limiting the City’s flexibility to 
prioritize where funds are expended. Assumptions for each 
of the General Fund’s expenditure categories are discussed 
in detail below. 
Personnel Costs
Personnel costs represent over 50% of total General 
Fund expenditures, and total $86.7 million for fiscal year 
2023-24. To best reflect the personnel costs, the ten-year 
forecast splits costs into three categories: salaries, benefits, 
and payment on the unfunded pension liability. This allows 
assumptions for cost increases in the three categories to 
move independently from one another. Assumptions for the 
major categories of personnel expenditures are discussed 
in the detail below.
Increases for salaries and salary-related costs, such 
as overtime, are initially based on existing contractual 
agreements or assumptions about the outcome of ongoing 
and future negotiations. Beyond those contractual 
assumptions, salary increases were set in the ten-year 
forecast based on projected modest salary increases, 2% 
annually, throughout the forecast. It is important to note 
that these are only projections of possible salary increases 
and do not reflect the actual salary adjustments that will 
be made in the future. There are several factors that have 
to be considered related to salary increases in the future, 
including the City’s economic condition, the amount of 
unassigned fund balance in the General Fund, labor 
negotiations, and our ability to compete in the market for 
employees.
As previously discussed, the cost of CalPERS pension 
contributions is not something the City has control over the 
way it does over many other expenditures. As a result, the 
ten-year forecast contains projected increases in the City’s 
contribution rates that were developed based on CalPERS 
actuarial valuation and projection. These contribution rates, 
which have been adjusted to consider the employees’ 
share of the City’s contribution rates, factor in assumptions 
related to turnover of City employees and the fact that new 
employees will come in under lower pension formulas. 
The rates also factor in the most up-to-date information 
available about the economic and actuarial changes 
CalPERS has recently implemented, as well as updated 
investment return results. A couple of the significant factors 
include:   
As reported in the mid-year budget update and the 
preliminary budget review, the City’s pension contribution 
will increase significantly starting fiscal year 2024-25 due to 
the CalPERS investment loss of negative 7.5% in fiscal year 
2021-22. Such investment loss will cost the City $177 million 
in additional pension costs over the 20-year amortization 
period starting in fiscal year 2024-25, and by fiscal year 
2028-29, an additional $10 million per year, which has been 
included into the General Fund Long-Term Plan.  
The table below illustrates the City’s pension cost in the 
General Fund, which is projected to increase from $22.7 
million in 2023-24 to $29.9 million in 2032-33, and the 
percentage of total operations year-over-year that is 
dedicated to pension benefits. Please note that the table 
and the ten-year forecast do not incorporate the impact 
of investment returns for fiscal year 2022-23. CalPERS 
investment returns as of mid-May 2023 was 5.1%. As the 
discount rate, or expected rate of return, is 6.8%, any 
returns that fall short of this target will create another layer 
of unfunded pension liability. The General Fund Long-
Term Plan assumes that CalPERS will meet its target rate 
of return (discount rate) for the remainder of the ten-year 
forecast.
FISCAL YEAR
GENERAL FUND 
NORMAL COSTS 
(in millions)
GENERAL FUND 
PAYMENT ON THE 
UNFUNDED LIABILITY
(in millions)
GENERAL FUND 
TOTAL 
(in millions)
PERCENTAGE 
OF TOTAL GENERAL 
FUND OPERATING 
EXPENDITURES*
2023-24
$
5.6
$
17.1
$
22.7
14%
2024-25
5.5
18.7
24.2
15%
2025-26
5.6
19.3
24.9
15%
2026-27
5.6
20.5
26.1
15%
2027-28
5.6
21.5
27.1
15%
2028-29
5.7
23.5
29.2
16%
2029-30
5.8
24.0
29.8
16%
2030-31
5.9
24.6
30.4
16%
2031-32
6.0
23.9
29.9
15%
2032-33
6.1
23.8
29.9
15%
*Total opearting expenditures exclude transfers out.
50
487 of 763

--- page 488 ---
Revenue and Expenditure Assumptions
Payment on the unfunded pension liability includes the 
payment for fire employees that have transferred to SMC 
Fire, as those costs correspond to the years of service that 
the fire employees had worked for the City and remain the 
City’s responsibility even after transfer of operations. In 
the ten-year financial plan, fire’s portion of the unfunded 
pension liability is included as part of fire legacy costs. 
More detail on this is discussed below in the subsection for 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department Contribution and 
Fire Legacy Costs.
Overall, the pension cost in the General Fund, including 
fire’s portion, makes up over 65% of the total cost of 
employee fringe benefits. Other major costs in this category 
include medical, dental, and vision premiums paid by 
the City; Medicare and Social Security taxes; workers’ 
compensation; and deferred compensation. Medical 
insurance, which is the second-largest cost in this category, 
is set in the forecast to increase at 6.5% in 2023-24 and 
then remain flat at 6% for the duration of the long-term 
plan. These assumptions are based on historical trends and 
assumptions used by the consulting actuary in the valuation 
of the City’s retiree medical plan. For other benefit costs 
that move with salary increases, such as Medicare and 
Social Security taxes, those are set to increase at the same 
rate as salaries in the ten-year financial plan.
Non-Personnel Costs
The remaining 50% of the General Fund’s expenditures 
consist of non-personnel costs. For the ten-year forecast, 
non-personnel expenditures were broken down into 
distinct categories: operating, transfers out, and San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department contribution and fire legacy 
costs. A brief description of the types of expenditures in 
each category is provided below.
Operating
Operating expenditures, which total $36.5 million in 
fiscal year 2023-24, include spending on a wide variety 
of expenditure categories related to operations of the 
City. Some of the major expenditure categories include 
professional and contract services, utilities costs, and 
capital outlay.
Professional and contract services in this category total 
$11.0 million in 2023-24 and it covers a wide variety of 
service areas, such as engineering services, legal services, 
the annual financial audit, consultants for special studies, 
animal control, and the maintenance of street and park 
trees. Because expenditures in this category are largely 
within the City’s control, the long-term forecast reflects an 
annual increase of 2%. 
Utilities costs, which total $3.5 million in 2023-24, include 
gas, electricity, water, and telecommunications costs 
required for city operations. Of the total, 54% goes toward 
gas and electricity, 31% goes toward water, and the 
remaining 15% is for telecommunications. For the ten-
year forecast, the annual inflationary increase is set at 2%. 
These increases consider expected growth in costs, which 
are largely beyond the City’s control, although increased 
conservation efforts can help control expenditure growth in 
this area.
And finally, the capital outlay expenditures consist of the 
“rental rate” the departments are charged to cover the cost 
of funding replacement from the Vehicle and Equipment 
Replacement Fund. Funds are collected for replacement 
while the vehicle/equipment is still in use so that adequate 
funds are available at the time when replacement is 
necessary. The budget for this expenditure category is $1.6 
million in 2023-24. Additional details about the Vehicle and 
Equipment Replacement Fund and its long-term financial 
plan can be found in the Fund Information section of this 
budget document.
Transfers Out
This category of funding includes the transfers the General 
Fund makes to various funds to fund ongoing and one-time 
needs. The most significant 2023-24 transfers include one-
time transfer of $5 million from General Fund to the Capital 
Improvement Fund for critical capital needs, including the 
high voltage streetlight conversion and storm drainage 
improvement projects, and ongoing transfers including 
$2.25 million transfer to the Capital Improvement Project 
Fund ($2 million for street rehabilitation and $250,000 
for sidewalk repair projects), $2.7 million for debt service, 
and $410,000 for building component replacement to the 
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund. The ongoing 
transfers are programed in the long-term forecast. 
Beginning in 2021-22 through 2023-24, as part of the 
fiscal sustainability plan, and in recognition of the General 
Fund not charging the full administrative burden to the 
Construction Services Fund since the Great Recession, a 
total of $10 million over the three-year period to the Capital 
Improvement Project Fund will supplant the General Fund 
transfer to support priority general capital projects.  
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
Contribution and Fire Legacy Costs
On January 13, 2019, the City’s fire operations were 
transferred to the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
(SMC Fire), a Joint Powers Authority (JPA), for fire, rescue, 
and emergency services between the cities of Belmont, 
Foster City, and San Mateo. Pursuant to the JPA, SMC Fire 
51
488 of 763

--- page 489 ---
Revenue and Expenditure 
Assumptions
costs are split 20% Belmont, 20% Foster City, and 60% 
San Mateo. The City’s share of SMC Fire costs is projected 
to be $27.5 million for 2023-24. Additionally, there are 
legacy costs that remain with the City, which are costs 
that were incurred during the time that the fire employees 
had worked for the City. These legacy costs include the 
unfunded pension liability, workers’ compensation liability, 
and retiree health benefit liability. Factoring in the legacy 
costs that remain with the City, the total cost to the City’s 
General Fund for fire service for 2023-24 is $34.3 million.
The long-term forecast presents the City’s contribution 
to SMC Fire and its fire legacy costs in a separate line to 
provide greater transparency and better projection of costs. 
The legacy costs are based on the consulting actuary’s 
projections. The City’s 60% contributions were based on 
the SMC Fire budget and five-year forecast. Beyond that, a 
3% annual growth has been projected.
Net Reduction / Use of Unassigned Fund Balance
The net reduction amount represents the expenditure 
reductions and/or revenues exceeding expectations that 
are required to maintain both the 25% operating reserve 
and the current housing reserve level throughout the 
long- term financial plan. This includes drawing down the 
unassigned fund balance over the course of the forecast. 
If the projections for General Fund revenues and 
expenditures come to fruition, the General Fund would 
realize a net loss of $12.6 million for 2023-24. As shown in 
the General Fund Long-Term Plan, based on revenue and 
expenditure assumptions, the City’s Rainy Day Reserves 
are projected to reach a low of $21.0 million in 2030-31 
and reach the reserve policy goal of $30.0 million by the 
end of the ten-year forecast.
A more comprehensive discussion of the implications 
of this long-term spending plan as it relates to the fund 
balance in the General Fund is included in “Section 1 – 
Budget Message.”
Long-Term Financial Forecast
The long-term financial forecast includes all known 
and assumed resource demands. This provides a 
comprehensive view of the demand for the City’s resources 
and allows Council to prioritize how those resources should 
be allocated. The long-term forecast allows the City to 
foresee structural imbalance, and plan to position itself 
towards long-term financial sustainability.
52
489 of 763

--- page 490 ---


--- page 491 ---
City Attorney
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $       1,099,222  $       1,284,566  $       1,371,191  $       1,355,382 
Operating
          3,042,169           3,068,217           3,137,372           3,607,405 
Capital Outlay
                 1,676                  1,424                  1,450                  1,590 
Total Expenditures
 $       4,143,067  $       4,354,207  $       4,510,013  $       4,964,377 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $       1,278,451  $       1,106,198  $       1,407,118  $       1,212,087 
Special Revenue Fund
             174,695              185,434              218,361              193,156 
Enterprise Fund
               25,938                83,603                95,276                98,335 
Internal Service Fund
          2,663,982           2,978,971           2,789,258           3,460,799 
Total Funding Sources
 $       4,143,067  $       4,354,207  $       4,510,013  $       4,964,377 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
City Attorney
                   1.00                    1.00 
Assistant City Attorney
                   3.00                    3.00 
Executive Secretary to City Attorney
                   1.00                    1.00 
Total Merit
                   5.00                    5.00 
Total Per Diem
                       -                          - 
Total Positions
                   5.00                    5.00 
54
491 of 763

--- page 492 ---
City Clerk
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $          699,987  $          725,885  $          782,283  $          809,241 
Operating
             216,596              160,106              280,432                42,223 
Capital Outlay
                 3,562                10,195                10,963                10,623 
Total Expenditures
 $          920,145  $          896,187  $       1,073,678  $          862,087 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $          920,145  $          896,187  $       1,073,678  $          862,087 
Total Funding Sources
 $          920,145  $          896,187  $       1,073,678  $          862,087 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
City Clerk
                   1.00                    1.00 
Assistant to the City Clerk
                   1.00                    1.00 
Deputy City Clerk
                   1.00                    1.00 
Management Analyst I/II
                   1.00                    1.00 
Total Merit
                   4.00                    4.00 
Total Per Diem
                   0.23                    0.23 
Total Positions
                   4.23                    4.23 
55
492 of 763

--- page 493 ---
City Clerk
METRICS
Public Transparency and Compliance
We provide public access to legislative decision-making and government records.
Number of Public Records Act (PRA) requests received
Percent of PRA responses responded to within prescribed timelines
Percent of Fair Political Practices Commission (FPPC) compliances documents filed on time
Percent of minutes completed and published on next regular meeting agenda
Legislative Process
We ensure that the City’s legislative decisions are smoothly and timely completed.
Number of contracts processed annually
Number of agendas developed for public meetings
Records Management
We are committed to protecting the City’s official public records.
Number of official records added to City’s electronic document management system. 
Informational Metrics
Number of Statement of Economic Interest Forms filed
56
493 of 763

--- page 494 ---
City Clerk
TYPE
2020-21 
RESULTS
2021-22 
RESULTS
2022-23 
ESTIMATE
2023-24 
TARGET
Workload
1,695
1,500
1,600
1,600
Performance
86%
95%
95%
98%
Performance
96%
98%
98%
99%
Performance
95%
95%
96%
97%
Workload
136
140
140
145
Workload
47
50
50
50
Workload
319
500
500
500
Workload
192
192
160
160
57
494 of 763

--- page 495 ---
City Council
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $          117,398  $          137,278  $          119,731  $            89,018 
Operating
             134,673              146,779              268,442              254,430 
Capital Outlay
               24,994                20,936                22,340                13,450 
Total Expenditures
 $          277,065  $          304,992  $          410,513  $          356,898 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $          277,065  $          304,992  $          410,513  $          356,898 
Total Funding Sources
 $          277,065  $          304,992  $          410,513  $          356,898 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
City Council Member
                   5.00                    5.00 
Total Merit
                   5.00                    5.00 
Total Per Diem
                       -                          - 
Total Positions
                   5.00                    5.00 
58
495 of 763

--- page 496 ---
City Manager's Office
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $       1,644,905  $       1,751,078  $       1,808,711  $       1,890,215 
Operating
          1,104,378              547,958           1,148,858              835,511 
Capital Outlay
                 4,625                  3,760                  3,985                  4,225 
Total Expenditures
 $       2,753,909  $       2,302,795  $       2,961,554  $       2,729,951 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $       2,673,295  $       2,203,059  $       2,844,535  $       2,617,253 
Special Revenue Funds
               80,614                99,737              117,019              112,698 
Total Funding Sources
 $       2,753,909  $       2,302,795  $       2,961,554  $       2,729,951 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
City Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Assistant City Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Communications Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Economic Development Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Executive Secretary to City Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Management Analyst I/II
                   1.00                    1.00 
Sustainability Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Total Merit
                   7.00                    7.00 
Total Per Diem
                       -                      0.48 
Total Positions
                   7.00                    7.48 
59
496 of 763

--- page 497 ---
City Manager's Office
METRICS
Economic Development
Business assistance provided
Communications
Number of citywide eNewsletter subscribers
Volunteer Engagement
Number of volunteers and volunteer hours
60
497 of 763

--- page 498 ---
City Manager's Office
TYPE
2020-21
 RESULTS
2021-22
 RESULTS
2022-23 
ESTIMATE
2023-24
 TARGET
Workload
N/A
100
150
150
Performance
9,955
10,000
11,000
12,000
2,701 vols
1,718 vols
3,500 vols
3,500 vols
33,445 hrs
42,534 hrs
75,000 hrs
75,000 hrs
Workload
61
498 of 763

--- page 499 ---
Community Development
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $       7,141,426  $       8,172,076  $       9,849,799  $     10,243,857 
Operating
          3,206,205         12,219,034           5,876,505           5,138,381 
Capital Outlay
             102,564                64,141                68,336                68,056 
Total Expenditures
 $     10,450,195  $     20,455,251  $     15,794,640  $     15,450,294 
Expenditures by Cost Center
Advance Planning
 $          939,440  $       1,514,332  $       1,904,075  $       1,422,665 
Current Planning
          1,880,366           3,014,611           3,955,592           3,857,770 
Permit Center
          4,562,402           5,531,408           6,356,198           6,835,803 
Code Enforcement
          1,088,954              936,876           1,121,879           1,136,151 
Housing
          1,663,933           9,307,172           2,206,411           1,942,843 
Program Support
             315,100              150,852              250,485              255,063 
Total Expenditures
 $     10,450,195  $     20,455,251  $     15,794,640  $     15,450,294 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $       1,876,042  $       1,679,751  $       2,008,992  $       1,946,275 
Special Revenue Funds
          8,574,153         18,837,199         13,785,648         13,504,019 
Total Funding Sources
 $     10,450,195  $     20,516,951  $     15,794,640  $     15,450,294 
62
499 of 763

--- page 500 ---
Community Development
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Community Development Director
                   1.00                    1.00 
Administrative Assistant
                   4.00                    4.00 
Administrative Technician
                   2.00                    2.00 
Associate Planner
                   6.00                    6.00 
Building Inspector I/II
                   7.00                    7.00 
Building Official
                   1.00                    1.00 
Business Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Code Enforcement Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Code Enforcement Officer I/II
                   4.00                    3.00 
Deputy Building Official
                       -                      1.00 
Deputy Community Development Director
                   1.00                    1.00 
Development Review Technician
                   5.00                    6.00 
Housing and Neighborhood Services Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Housing Specialist I/II
                   1.00                    1.00 
Inspection Supervisor
                   1.00                    1.00 
Managing Arborist
                   1.00                    1.00 
Office Assistant I/II
                   2.00                    2.00 
Permit Center Supervisor
                   1.00                    1.00 
Plan Check Supervisor
                   1.00                    1.00 
Plan Checker Engineer
                   5.00                    5.00 
Planning Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Principal Planner
                   1.00                    2.00 
Senior Business Systems Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Code Enforcement Officer
                       -                      1.00 
Senior Development Review Technician
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Management Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Planner
                   1.00                    1.00 
Total Merit
                 52.00                  55.00 
Total Per Diem
                   1.18                    1.18 
Total Positions
                 53.18                  56.18 
63
500 of 763

--- page 501 ---
Community Development
METRICS
CDD Administration
Number of staff vacancies within the year
Number of vacancies filled within the year
Building
Number of planning applications for review
Percent of planning application reviews completed within 10 business days
Number of residential permits issued that required more than 3 plan checks before approval 
Number of full review issued residential permits 
Number of permit applications received online
Number of special and emergency event responses assisting SMCFD and SMPD
Number of responses that were out of regular business hours
Number of permits issued - Commercial
Number of permits issued - Residential
Number of permits issued - ADU and JADU (Accessory Dwelling Unit / Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit)
Number of Residential VOTC (virtual over the counter) online submittal applications
Code Enforcement
Number of complaints received 
Percent of new cases investigated/opened
Percent of new cases closed: cases that were opened and closed within reporting quarter
Number of all active cases: including cases from previous reporting quarters
Percent of existing cases closed
Percent of cases forwarded to the City Attorney’s Office 
Number of unpermitted construction cases opened
Number of ADU’s receiving 5-year delay of enforcement
Percent of Substandard Housing Condition complaints received - Tenant relocation required
Percent of Substandard Housing Condition complaints received - Repeat violator/violations
Percent of Substandard Housing Condition complaints received - Pest/rodent infestation - More than 4 units (multifamily)
Percent of Substandard Housing Condition complaints received - Pest/rodent infestation - Less than 4 units
Percent of Substandard Housing Condition complaints investigated within 48 business hours 
Housing
Number of housing units repaired/improved through minor home repair, accessibility modifications, and Rebuilding Together grants
Percent of time sellers of First Time Buyer and Below Market Rate units offer letters within time described in loan documents
Planning
Number of Planning Application submittals
Percent of planning applications that required more than 3 resubmittals before a completeness determination
Percent of Planning Application incomplete letters processed within the statutory 30-calendar day turn-around time from the date of submittal
Number of Building Application plan check reviews
Percent of Building Application plan check reviews processed within 20 business days after assignment to planner
Number of formal neighborhood and outreach meetings held
Percent of time Planning Commission Study Sessions are conducted for 100% of Pre-Applications within 120 days from the date of submittal
Percent of Zoning Administrator Level Planning Application Decision Letters processed within 20 days
64
501 of 763

--- page 502 ---
Community Development
TYPE
2020-21
 RESULTS
2021-22
 RESULTS
2022-23
 ESTIMATE
2023-24
 TARGET
Workload
New
New
9
5
Workload
New
New
11
9
Workload
New
New
162
170
Performance
New
New
90%
90%
Workload
New
New
90
75
Workload
New
New
500
525
Workload
New
New
New
4,500
Workload
New
New
30
30
Workload
New
New
10
10
Workload
New
New
220
250
Workload
New
New
3,600
3,800
Workload
New
New
90
115
Workload
New
New
350
325
Workload
New
New
100
100
Workload
New
New
40%
40%
Performance
New
New
30%
30%
Workload
New
New
200
200
Performance
New
New
30%
25%
Workload
New
New
5%
5%
Workload
New
New
5
5
Workload
New
New
0
0
Workload
New
New
1%
1%
Workload
New
New
0%
0%
Workload
New
New
1%
1%
Workload
New
New
1%
1%
Performance
New
New
100%
80%
Performance
25
33
18
20
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Workload
New
New
100
80
Performance
New
New
25%
20%
Performance
New
New
100%
100%
Workload
New
New
1,200
1,000
Performance
Modified
Modified
80%
80%
Workload
Modified
Modified
N/A
8
Performance
Modified
Modified
100%
100%
Performance
Modified
Modified
90%
100%
65
502 of 763

--- page 503 ---
Finance
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $       2,846,078  $       2,657,587  $       3,074,170  $       3,190,934 
Operating
             801,176           1,203,260           1,151,895              911,947 
Capital Outlay
               84,608                75,950                78,440                76,815 
Total Expenditures
 $       3,731,863  $       3,936,796  $       4,304,505  $       4,179,696 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $       3,573,766  $       3,904,495  $       4,301,346  $       4,176,442 
Enterprise Fund
             158,097                32,302                  3,159                  3,254 
Total Funding Sources
 $       3,731,863  $       3,936,796  $       4,304,505  $       4,179,696 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Finance Director
                   1.00                    1.00 
Accountant I/II
                   2.00                    2.00 
Accounting Assistant I/II
                   6.00                    4.00 
Accounting Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Budget Analyst
                   1.00 
                       - 
Budget Manager
                       -                      1.00 
Deputy Finance Director
                   1.00                    1.00 
Payroll Supervisor
                   1.00                    1.00 
Payroll Technician I/II
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Accountant
                   2.00                    2.00 
Senior Accounting Assistant
                       -                      2.00 
Senior Management Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Total Merit
                 17.00                  17.00 
Total Per Diem
                       -                          - 
Total Positions
                 17.00                  17.00 
66
503 of 763

--- page 504 ---
Finance
METRICS
The City's annual financial statements receive an unmodified opinion from the external auditors
The City's Annual Comprehensive Finance Report receives the Government Finance Officers Association Certificate of 
Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting
The City's Annual Comprehensive Finance Report is approved by Council by December 31st
Number of business license renewals processed
Number of new business licenses issued
Number of employee paychecks issued
Percent of paychecks issued with no customer-facing errors
Number of invoices received
Percent of vendor payments made with no errors
Percent of months City's investment portfolio complies with investment policy
Average duration of City's investment portfolio
Percent of months yield on the City's investment portfolio meets benchmark performance targets
Percent variance between final estimated revenues and actual revenues for major General Fund taxes
Percent of purchase orders processed within 1 business day
Number of change orders processed in Purchasing
Number of new credit cards issued
Percent variance between budget and actual General Fund expenditures
67
504 of 763

--- page 505 ---
Finance
TYPE
2020-21
 RESULTS
2021-22
 RESULTS
2022-23
 ESTIMATE
2023-24 
TARGET
Performance
Yes
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Performance
Yes
TBA
Yes 
Yes 
Performance
Yes
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Workload
6,100
6,100
6,100
6,100
Workload
1,200
1,200
1,300
1,300
Workload
22,000
20,000
20,000
20,000
Performance
100%
100%
100%
>99%
Workload
19,190
14,000
14,000
14,000
Performance
99%
99%
99%
>99%
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Other
600 days
730 days
600 days
600 days
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Performance
4%
4%
4%
4%
Performance
98%
98%
98%
98%
Workload
195
200
175
175
Workload
40
20
20
20
Performance
5%
5%
5%
5%
68
505 of 763

--- page 506 ---
Human Resources
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $       2,121,126  $       2,214,211  $       2,171,952  $       2,152,715 
Operating
          4,229,207          (1,600,905)           4,098,029           3,981,001 
Capital Outlay
               19,090                29,061                16,714                17,274 
Total Expenditures
 $       6,369,423  $          642,368  $       6,286,695  $       6,150,990 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $       2,106,383  $       2,104,301  $       2,340,102  $       2,284,816 
Internal Service Fund
          4,263,040          (1,461,933)           3,946,593           3,866,174 
Total Funding Sources
 $       6,369,423  $          642,368  $       6,286,695  $       6,150,990 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Human Resources Director
                   1.00                    1.00 
Human Resources Technician
                   4.00                    4.00 
Senior Human Resources Analyst
                   5.00                    5.00 
Senior Human Resources Analyst Risk Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Total Merit
                 11.00                  11.00 
Total Per Diem
                   0.20                    0.20 
Total Positions
                 11.20                  11.20 
69
506 of 763

--- page 507 ---
Human Resources
 METRICS 
Recruitment, Selection, and Classification
Number of recruitments conducted
Length of time from signed Recruitment Plan to Eligibility List
Percent of hiring departments rating recruitment as good or better
Annual employee turnover rate
Number of classification reviews and job spec updates
Employee and Labor Relations
Percent of employee performance evaluations completed on time
Percent of departing merit employees who have an exit interview
Percent of disciplinary actions determined within 60 days from completion of investigation
Percent of grievances and disciplinary actions resolved within the agency
Number of labor contracts negotiated
Number of employees trained on Employee & Labor Relations
Employee Services/Benefits
Number of employees attending benefits seminars (EAP, deferred comp, CalPERS)
Percent of employees voluntarily participating in a deferred compensation plan
Number of benefits orientations conducted
Number of benefits orientations conducted during NHO
Number of leave requests processed
Number of Wellness Program events per year
Employee Services/Employee Development and Workforce Planning
Attendance at training courses
Percent of training participants who were satisfied with the course taken
Number of employees participating in the Citywide Talent Exchange
Number of employees in Lead Worker, Supervisor, & Leadership Academies
Number of employees utlizing professional leadership coaching
Workers’ Compensation and Safety
Number of claims opened during the fiscal year
Cost of incurred claims 
Percent of new hires receiving IIPP training
Support to SMC Fire
Number of recruitments conducted
Percent of disciplinary actions determined within 60 days from completion of investigation
Number of workers' compensation indemnity claims opened in the fiscal year
70
507 of 763

--- page 508 ---
Human Resources
TYPE
2020-21
 RESULTS
2021-22
 RESULTS
2022-23
 ESTIMATE
2023-24
 TARGET
Workload
50
64
40
40
Performance
8 weeks
7.0 weeks
<10 weeks
<10 Weeks
Performance
99.0%
99.7%
90.0%
90.0%
Performance
11.0%
13.4%
<15%
<15%
Workload
25
42
25
25
Performance
82%
93%
80%
80%
Workload
75%
88%
80%
80%
Performance
49%
100%
90%
90%
Performance
88%
94%
90%
90%
Workload
4
5
5
5
Workload
91
94
40
40
Performance
160
78
115
115
Performance
76%
80%
80%
80%
Workload
0
N/A
N/A
N/A
Workload
N/A
1
3
3
Workload
209
269
60
60
Workload
2
3
3
3
Workload
966
1,255
450
450
Performance
90%
90%
90%
90%
Performance
1
6
3
3
Workload
8
21
24
24
Performance 
15
18
12
12
Workload
44
46
<70
<70
Performance
$3.6M
$3.6M
<$3.5M
<$3.6M
Performance
100%
98%
100%
100%
Workload 
4
11
5
5
Performance
90%
100%
90%
90%
Performance / Workload
25
31
<25
<25
71
508 of 763

--- page 509 ---
Information Technology
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $       2,599,870  $       2,699,132  $       2,892,638  $       2,900,571 
Operating
             947,199              990,042           1,532,875           1,582,508 
Capital Outlay
               55,959              230,648              441,467           4,141,585 
Total Expenditures
 $       3,603,028  $       3,919,823  $       4,866,980  $       8,624,664 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $       3,591,644  $       3,902,045  $       4,639,251  $       4,695,904 
Internal Service Fund
               11,384                17,778              227,729           3,928,760 
Total Funding Sources
 $       3,603,028  $       3,919,823  $       4,866,980  $       8,624,664 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Information Technology Director
                   1.00                    1.00 
Consulting and Applications Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Customer Service Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
GIS Coordinator
                   1.00                    1.00 
GIS Technician I/II
                   1.00                    1.00 
IS Support Technician I/II
                   2.00                    2.00 
Network Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior IS Support Technician
                   1.00                    1.00 
Systems Analyst I/II
                   3.00                    3.00 
Systems And Network Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Web Specialist
                   1.00                    1.00 
Total Merit
                 14.00                  14.00 
Total Per Diem
                   0.48                    0.48 
Total Positions
                 14.48                  14.48 
72
509 of 763

--- page 510 ---
Information Technology
METRICS
Percent of uptime for databases and applications during business hours
Percent of Help Desk calls completed within 48 hours or less
Number of Help Desk calls annually
Percent of GIS requests completed within agreed upon time and scope
Number of GIS requests annually
Percent of web support requests completed within agreed upon time and scope
Number of web support requests annually
Composite Score, technology infrastructure reliability
Annual Customer Satisfaction Survey rating
73
510 of 763

--- page 511 ---
Information Technology
TYPE
2020-21
 RESULTS
2021-22
 RESULTS
2022-23
 ESTIMATE
2023-24
 TARGET
Performance
100%
100%
98%
98%
Performance
97%
96%
90%
90%
Workload
3,156
3,535
3,500
3,500
Performance
87%
96%
90%
90%
Workload
66
89
75
75
Performance
84%
86%
90%
90%
Workload
51
24
35
35
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Performance
100%
100%
95%
90%
74
511 of 763

--- page 512 ---
Library
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $       4,596,627  $       5,121,669  $       5,904,064  $       6,162,475 
Operating
          2,246,992           2,332,877           2,542,208           2,553,516 
Capital Outlay
             220,161              190,454              213,232              209,869 
Total Expenditures
 $       7,063,780  $       7,645,000  $       8,659,504  $       8,925,860 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $       7,063,780  $       7,645,000  $       8,659,504  $       8,925,860 
Total Funding Sources
 $       7,063,780  $       7,645,000  $       8,659,504  $       8,925,860 
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
City Librarian
                   1.00                    1.00 
Administrative Technician
                   1.00                    1.00 
Community Services Coordinator
                   0.50                    0.50 
Deputy City Librarian
                   1.00                    1.00 
Executive Assistant
                   1.00                    1.00 
Librarian I/II
                   9.63                    9.63 
Library Assistant I/II
                   8.75                    8.75 
Library Technology Specialist
                   1.00                    1.00 
Literacy Program Coordinator
                   1.00                    1.00 
Literacy Specialist
                   0.63                    0.63 
Senior Accounting Assistant
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Library Assistant
                   3.00                    3.00 
Senior Management Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Supervising Librarian
                   3.00                    3.00 
Supervising Library Assistant
                   1.00                    1.00 
Total Merit
                 34.51                  34.51 
Total Per Diem
                 19.81                  19.81 
Total Positions
                 54.32                  54.32 
75
512 of 763

--- page 513 ---
Library
METRICS
Number of non-digital library materials in circulation
Number of digital library materials in circulation
Percent of self-checkout transactions
Number of library patrons receiving technology assistance/instruction
Number of participants in library's reading programs
Percent of respondents to Customer Satisfaction Survey who rate library service as excellent or good
Number of annual visits by library patrons
Number of patrons served through outreach
76
513 of 763

--- page 514 ---
Library
TYPE
2020-21
 RESULTS
2021-22
 RESULTS
2022-23
 ESTIMATE
2023-24 
TARGET
Workload
285,117
282,010
300,000
400,000
Workload
1,130,057
1,856,238
1,900,000
1,900,000
Performance
30%
86%
85%
86%
Workload
889
1
8,808
8,500
8,500
Workload
3,662
2
2,690
5,000
5,000
Performance
N/A
96%
90%
90%
Workload
25,168
3
255,644
350,000
350,000
Workload
13,918
4
6,280
6,000
6,000
2. Reading program participation was impacted greatly by COVID-19 mandatory closures, social distancing and limitations to sanitization products needed for book and material distributions.
3. Library visits decreased during 2020-21 due to COVID-19 pandamic.
4. Includes virtual outreach.
1. These performance metrics was significantly impacted by COVID-19 mandatory public building closures, social distancing, and changes in patron behavior related to precautionary measures in the use of public 
spaces.
77
514 of 763

--- page 515 ---
Parks and Recreation
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $     10,090,826  $     10,670,442  $     12,242,393  $     12,555,710 
Operating
          6,391,972           7,688,649           8,843,487           8,848,668 
Capital Outlay
             291,101              231,992              244,099              262,351 
Debt Service
                    261 
                       -                          -                          - 
Total Expenditures
 $     16,774,159  $     18,591,082  $     21,329,979  $     21,666,729 
Expenditures by Cost Center
Arborist
 $       1,127,739  $       1,295,911  $       1,306,127  $       1,312,555 
Parks Planning
             384,765              472,994              579,372              532,715 
Parks & Landscapes          
          5,746,836           6,177,736           6,619,454           6,795,204 
Landscape Resources Visitor Managemen
             392,277              405,277              402,806              412,785 
Community Services
          6,689,467           7,872,645           9,795,524           9,946,590 
Golf
          2,433,075           2,366,520           2,626,696           2,666,879 
Total Expenditures
 $     16,774,159  $     18,591,082  $     21,329,979  $     21,666,729 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $     16,736,733  $     18,591,082  $     21,329,979  $     21,666,729 
Special Revenue Funds
               37,427 
                       -                          -                          - 
Total Funding Sources
 $     16,774,159  $     18,591,082  $     21,329,979  $     21,666,729 
78
515 of 763

--- page 516 ---
Parks and Recreation
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Parks and Recreation Director
                   1.00                    1.00 
Administrative Assistant
                   1.00                    1.00 
Administrative Technician
                   1.00                    1.00 
Business Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Communications and Public Relations Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Community Services Coordinator
                   5.00                    9.00 
Community Services Manager
                   1.00 
                       - 
Community Services Section Manager
                   3.00                    2.00 
Community Services Supervisor
                   8.00                    7.00 
Custodian
                   1.00                    1.00 
Deputy Parks and Recreation Director
                   1.00                    1.00 
Executive Assistant
                       -                          - 
Golf Course Maintenance Supervisor
                   1.00                    1.00 
Golf Equipment Maintenance Specialist
                   1.00                    1.00 
Golf Services Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Irrigation Specialist
                   2.00                    2.00 
Landscape Laborer
                   3.00                    3.00 
Landscape Maintenance Worker I/II
                 15.00                  15.00 
Lead Teacher
                   4.00                    2.50 
Managing Arborist
                   1.00                    1.00 
Park and Landscape Maintenance Supervisor
                   1.00                    1.00 
Park and Landscape Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Program Assistant I/II
                   1.00                    1.00 
Project Manager I/II
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Accounting Assistant
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Park Landscape Maintenance Worker
                   3.00                    3.00 
Senior Park Ranger
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Program Assistant
                   3.00                    4.00 
Tree Maintenance Specialist
                   1.00                    1.00 
Total Merit
                 65.00                  65.50 
Total Per Diem
                 49.22                  49.08 
Total Positions
               114.22                114.58 
79
516 of 763

--- page 517 ---
Parks and Recreation
METRICS
Landscape Resources - Parks
We provide environmental stewardship of the City’s park land, civic facilities, medians, islands, and right-of ways.
 Number of acres of developed park land, civic facilities, medians, and islands maintained ¹ 
 Cost per acre to maintain developed park land, civic facilities, medians, and islands 
 Percent of maintenance standards met at park land, civic facilities, medians, and islands 
 Percent of park visitors who agree that the park and park landscaping was well maintained 
 Percent of park visitors who reported feeling a high level of safety in our parks 
 Number of acres of developed community parks and neighborhood parks with sports fields 
 Water usage per acre at developed community parks and neighborhood parks ² 
 Percent of maximum labor captured in Cartegraph  
Landscape Resources - Trees
We provide environmental stewardship to the City’s street and park trees.
 Number of street and park trees maintained  
 Number of street and park trees pruned annually 
 Percent of street and park trees pruned annually 
 Number of new trees planted 
 Percent of street and park trees removed that are replaced by newly planted trees 
 Number of tree service requests 
 Percent of tree service requests responded to within 10 working days 
Golf
We efficiently operate an 18-hole golf course.
 Number of golf rounds played annually 
 Percent of golf tee times utilized 
 Percent of golf course operating expenses covered by revenues 
We provide a community resource.
 Number of golf course tournaments and clubhouse events facilitated annually 
Recreation
We provide opportunities for Active and Healthy Lifestyles, Creative Outlets, Creating Community, Youth Development, and Lifelong 
Learning.
 Number of program registrants 
 Number of special events attendees 
We balance providing affordable recreation and access for all with appropriate cost recovery through user fees.
 Percent of programs covering costs within the cost recovery target range³ 
 Number of unduplicated youth that received fee assistance to attend Recreation programs 
We encourage the involvement of youth and create a safe environment for them in our community.
 Number of Recreation program registrants who are youth 
 Percent of Recreation program registrants who are youth 
 Number of youth registrants made water safe through City swim lessons 
We offer our facilities as a community resource.
 Number of public rentals occurring at recreation centers 
We have happy, satisfied customers.
 Percent of course registration occurring online 
 Percent of Recreation program customers satisfied with overall experience 
* Results significantly impacted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
¹ Target does yet include acreage for medians and islands. Staff is working to convert current information on miles to a relevant acreage number.
² Water usage is only tracked in those neighborhood parks with significant sports turf on a calendar year.
³ Cost recovery target range will be part of  a study session with City Council to provide direction (Study Session Planned for 2022/23 Q4).
80
517 of 763

--- page 518 ---
TYPE
2020-21
 RESULTS
2021-22
 RESULTS
2022-23
 ESTIMATE
2023-24
 TARGET
 Workload 
289.7
                     
289.7
                     
289.7
                     
289.7
                     
 Performance 
$19,975
$25,000
$26,000
$27,000
 Performance 
87%
85%
85%
85%
 Performance 
93%
95%
95%
95%
 Performance 
95%
97%
95%
95%
 Workload 
112.9
                     
112.9
                     
112.9
                     
112.9
                     
 Performance 
521
                        
438
                        
484
                        
484
                        
 Performance 
73%
75%
70%
70%
 Workload 
23,600
                   
23,600
                   
23,600
                   
23,600
                   
 Performance 
2,400
                     
2,400
                     
2,400
                     
2,400
                     
 Performance 
10%
10%
10%
10%
 Workload 
130
                        
130
                        
130
                        
150
                        
 Performance 
100%
100%
110%
110%
 Workload 
300
                        
300
                        
300
                        
300
                        
 Performance 
90%
90%
95%
95%
 Workload 
80,051
                   
78,000
                   
78,000
                   
80,000
                   
 Performance 
91%
75%
78%
77%
 Performance 
137%
110%
105%
100%
 Workload 
195
                        
200
                        
250
                        
275
                        
 Workload 
6,000
                     
20,000
                   
20,000
                   
24,000
                   
 Workload 
1,000*
16,000
                   
25,000
                   
26,000
                   
 Performance 
45%
45%
35%
45%
 Other 
650
                        
995
                        
600
                        
650
                        
 Performance 
3,000*
15,000
                   
14,000
                   
16,000
                   
 Performance 
63%
63%
65%
65%
 Performance 
200*
2,155
                     
950
                        
1,000
                     
 Workload 
 -*   
200
                        
400
                        
500
                        
 Performance 
90%
75%
90%
92%
 Performance 
90%
90%
90%
90%
81
518 of 763

--- page 519 ---
Police
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $     43,172,446  $     44,379,519  $     47,609,040  $     49,437,894 
Operating
          6,555,714           6,924,649           8,446,713           8,762,359 
Capital Outlay
             491,274              539,625              663,534              644,765 
Total Expenditures
 $     50,219,434  $     51,843,793  $     56,719,287  $     58,845,018 
Expenditures by Cost Center
Dispatch/Communications, Records & Technology Admin
 $       4,232,071  $       4,391,398  $       7,092,522  $       7,333,656 
Crime Reduction Unit
          1,900,485           2,158,215           3,562,610           3,478,057 
Criminal Investigations
          4,779,653           4,787,527           4,785,565           5,032,727 
Downtown Security
             647,938              438,331              981,092              758,774 
Facilities and Overhead
          1,418,783           1,477,724              906,877              909,003 
Field Operations Admin Unit
          1,379,316           1,422,374           1,936,198           2,039,799 
Parking Enforcement
          1,458,037           1,313,644           1,622,621           1,683,059 
Patrol Unit
        23,321,267         24,112,600         22,610,456         25,003,245 
Support Services Admin
          6,961,937           7,714,529           7,676,319           7,492,331 
Traffic Unit
          2,347,445           2,275,498           3,395,651           2,887,584 
Youth Services
          1,365,335           1,082,903           1,416,659           1,509,881 
Police Activities League
             407,168              669,050              732,717              716,902 
Total Expenditures
 $     50,219,434  $     51,843,793  $     56,719,287  $     58,845,018 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $     47,759,522  $     51,417,273  $     55,642,831  $     57,981,162 
Special Revenue Funds
          2,459,912              426,520           1,076,456              863,856 
Total Funding Sources
 $     50,219,434  $     51,843,793  $     56,719,287  $     58,845,018 
82
519 of 763

--- page 520 ---
Police
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Chief of Police
                   1.00                    1.00 
Administrative Assistant
                   2.00                    2.00 
Administrative Technician
                   1.00                    1.00 
Business Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Community Service Officer I/II
                   4.00                    4.00 
Communications & Public Relations Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Crime and Intelligence Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Dispatch Services Supervisor
                   2.00                    2.00 
Dispatcher I/II
                 14.00                  14.00 
Executive Assistant
                   1.00                    1.00 
Facilities Coordinator
                   1.00                    1.00 
Management Analyst I/II
                   1.00                    1.00 
Police Captain
                   2.00                    2.00 
Police Digital Forensic Specialist
                   1.00                    1.00 
Police Evidence Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Police Lieutenant
                   6.00                    6.00 
Police Officer
                 90.00                  90.00 
Police Records Specialist I/II
                   5.00                    5.00 
Police Records Supervisor
                   2.00                    2.00 
Police Sergeant
                 17.00                  17.00 
Police Technical Services Administrator
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Business Systems Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Community Service Officer
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Police Records Specialist
                   2.00                    2.00 
Vehicle Abatement Officer
                   2.00                    2.00 
Total Merit
               161.00                161.00 
Total Per Diem
                   9.40                    9.40 
Total Positions
               170.40                170.40 
83
520 of 763

--- page 521 ---
Police
METRICS
Field Operating Services
We take a collaborative approach to address critical factors that contribute to safe streets, and strive to increase 
safety through implementation of comprehensive Traffic Action Plans conducted in targeted areas based on 
violations, complaints, and collision data; and seek to mitigate the impact of traffic and parking violations on 
Number of pedestrian or bicycle collisions with motor vehicles 
Number of drunk driving arrests
Number of Traffic Action Plans
Number of Abandoned Vehicle Complaints
Percent of reported abandoned vehicle complaints resolved w/in 5 calendar days 
Number of parking citations issued
We conduct outreach and intervention to assist those experiencing homelessness, mental health crises, or in need of 
other social services.
Number of homeless outreach/crisis intervention referrals to services 
Our staff is devoted to protecting with honor and serving with pride by providing ethical and compassionate service to 
our public.
Percentage of those receiving services who indicate police service received was good or excellent
Investigations Services
We work to maintain a safe, secure City through smart policing tactics and data driven strategic policing through 
prevention, intervention, and enforcement.
Number of reported incidents of violent crime (murder, rape, robbery, aggravated assault)
Number of reported incidents of property crime (burglary, motor vehicle theft, auto burglary, larceny, arson)
Number of officer-initiated incidents
Number of SMPD calls for service
We offer youth services aimed at providing intervention and diverting juveniles from the Criminal Justice System.
Number of juveniles diverted from the court system to the Youth Services Division
Number of youth participating in Police Activities League prevention/intervention programs
Support Services
We strive to quickly respond to all emergencies.
Average response time from dispatch of a Priority 1 call to arrival of responding officer
Average answering time from moment call enters system to time it takes to answer
Number of Priority 1 calls
Percentage of Priority 1 calls dispatched within 90 seconds of receipt
We seek to enhance community awareness by increasing our following on social media and through our 
Neighborhood Watch 2.0 efforts which further elevate participation and encourage new users to subscribe.
Number of subscribers to the Police Department's Community Alert System and social media
84
521 of 763

--- page 522 ---
Police
TYPE
2020-21
 RESULTS
2021-22
 RESULTS
2022-23
 ESTIMATE
2023-24
 TARGET
Workload
53
47
60
N/A
Workload
176
150
190
N/A
Workload
48
48
48
N/A
Workload
4,264
2,824
4,300
N/A
Performance
93%
91%
90%
95%
Workload
36,409
37,276
55,000
N/A
Workload
96
103
110
N/A
Performance
97%
95%
new feedback 
platform 
implemented this 
year 
95%
Workload
647
723
840
N/A
Workload
2,257
2,147
2,400
N/A
Workload
23,381
25,139
27,000
N/A
Workload
58,250
60,183
65,000
N/A
Workload
7
14
30
20
Workload
1,210
2,174
2,500
3,000
Performance
5 min; 32 sec
5 min; 38 sec
5 min; 30 sec
<7 minutes
Performance
99% answered 
w/in 15 seconds
98.7% answered 
w/in 15 seconds
98.5% answered 
w/in 15 seconds
95% answered 
w/in 15 seconds
Workload
999
1,384
1,400
 N/A
Performance
96%
96%
97%
90%
Other
147,876
158,259
166,000
172,000
85
522 of 763

--- page 523 ---
Public Works
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Personnel
 $     18,279,455  $     19,345,219  $     23,407,557  $     25,448,003 
Operating
        18,229,764         19,741,847         24,688,131         24,149,817 
Capital Outlay
             611,126              486,855              772,215           1,014,631 
Debt Service
                      -                297,224 
                      -                         - 
Total Expenditures
 $     37,120,345  $     39,871,145  $     48,867,902  $     50,612,451 
Expenditures by Cost Center
Facilities 
 $       2,704,060  $       3,021,841  $       3,365,434  $       3,400,182 
Fleet
          1,834,942           2,050,699           2,537,701           2,525,337 
Private Development
          1,048,588           1,173,741           1,246,123           1,554,789 
Public Works Administrative Services
             386,275              384,353              610,160              556,987 
Sewer
          9,344,193           9,358,110         10,885,683         11,037,188 
Solid Waste Management
          1,013,616           1,098,312           1,882,268           1,846,158 
Storm and Flood Control
             890,435           1,174,767           1,290,961           1,829,777 
Streets
          2,585,988           3,064,006           4,222,196           4,847,155 
Transportation
          4,772,145           4,887,353           6,069,942           6,117,013 
Wastewater Treatment Plant
        12,540,102         13,657,963         16,757,435         16,897,867 
Total Expenditures
 $     37,120,345  $     39,871,145  $     48,867,902  $     50,612,451 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $       6,621,946  $       8,937,413  $     11,444,764  $     12,159,747 
Special Revenue Funds
          3,928,240           2,697,112           3,573,752           4,333,590 
Debt Service Fund
               61,877                72,943                97,358                96,586 
Enterprise Fund
        21,969,281         23,091,137         27,848,893         28,097,009 
Internal Service Fund
          4,539,001           5,072,540           5,903,135           5,925,519 
Total Funding Sources
 $     37,120,345  $     39,871,145  $     48,867,902  $     50,612,451 
86
523 of 763

--- page 524 ---
Public Works
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Public Works Director
                   1.00                    1.00 
Administrative Assistant
                   7.00                    6.00 
Administrative Technician
                   1.00                    2.00 
Associate Engineer
                 13.00                  14.00 
Associate Transportation Planner
                   1.00                    1.00 
Building Maintenance Supervisor
                   1.00                    1.00 
Business Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Calibration Technician
                   1.00                    1.00 
Central Services Worker
                   1.00                    1.00 
Communications and Public Relations Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Construction Inspector I/II
                   4.00                    4.00 
Database Specialist
                   1.00                    1.00 
Deputy Director
                   2.00                    2.00 
Downtown Coordinator
                   1.00                    1.00 
Engineering Manager
                   3.00                    3.00 
Engineering Technician I/II
                   6.00                    6.00 
Environmental Compliance Inspector
                   3.00                    3.00 
Environmental Programs Coordinator
                   1.00                    1.00 
Executive Assistant
                   1.00                    1.00 
Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Facility Maintenance Worker
                   3.00                    3.00 
Field Maintenance Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Fleet Services Supervisor
                   1.00                    1.00 
Instrument Control Technician
                   1.00                    1.00 
Laboratory Analyst I/II
                   3.00                    3.00 
Laboratory Supervisor
                   1.00                    1.00 
Laborer
                   1.00                    1.00 
Maintenance Planner
                   1.00                    1.00 
Maintenance Worker I/II
                 24.00                  24.00 
Management Analyst I/II
                   3.00                    3.00 
Principal Transportation Planner
                   1.00                    1.00 
Project Manager I/II
                   3.00                    3.00 
Public Works Maintenance Leadworker
                   3.00                    3.00 
Public Works Supervisor
                   2.00                    2.00 
Pump Station Mechanic I/II
                   2.00                    3.00 
Pump Station Mechanic III
                   1.00                    1.00 
Regulatory Compliance Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Engineer
                   7.00                    7.00 
87
524 of 763

--- page 525 ---
Public Works
FULL TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) PERSONNEL
2022-23 
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Senior Facility Maintenance Worker
                   3.00                    3.00 
Senior I&C Technician
                   1.00                    1.00 
Senior Management Analyst
                   1.00                    1.00 
Solid Waste and Recycling Program Coordinator
                   1.00                    1.00 
Solid Waste Technician
                   1.00                    1.00 
Traffic and Light Technician
                   1.00                    2.00 
Traffic Safety Worker
                   3.00                    3.00 
WWTP Electrical Technician
                   1.00                    1.00 
WWTP Maintenance Superintendent
                   1.00                    1.00 
WWTP Manager
                   1.00                    1.00 
WWTP Mechanic I/II
                   6.00                    6.00 
WWTP Mechanic III
                   2.00                    2.00 
WWTP Operations Superintendent
                   1.00                    1.00 
WWTP Operator In-Training/I/II
                   9.00                  10.00 
WWTP Operator III
                   5.00                    5.00 
WWTP Shift Supervisor
                   2.00                    2.00 
Waste Management Supervisor
                   1.00                    1.00 
Total Merit
               150.00                154.00 
Total Per Diem
                   4.21                    4.69 
Total Positions
               154.21                158.69 
88
525 of 763

--- page 526 ---
Public Works
METRICS
Clean Water Program
Feet of sewer pipe rehabilitated annually
Number of Private Sewer Lateral Program applicants completing sewer lateral replacement
Engineering Services - Capital Improvement Program
Citywide Pavement Condition Index (PCI)
Number of miles in the San Mateo street inventory
Number of street miles in street inventory with PCI 30 or less
Number of street miles in street inventory with PCI 25 or less
Engineering Services - Transportation and Private Development
Number of planning applications received
Number of planning applications reviewed within 20 days
Percent of planning applications reviewed within 20 days
Number of building permits received
Number of building permits reviewed within 20 days
Percent of building permits reviewed within 20 days
Percent of customer satisfaction score of 3 or higher at PW Counter (Scale: 1 - 5, 1 = Not Satisfied 5 = Extremely Satisfied)
Facilities
Percent of graffiti removed from City facilities or Right of Way within 48 hours of reporting
Percent of non-emergency rolling fleet that are sustainable
Field Maintenance
Number of miles of sewer main cleaned
Percent of sewer pump stations inspected with quarterly preventative maintenance performed
Number of sidewalk tripping hazards reported
Number of sidewalk tripping hazards addressed within 7 days (patch or barricade)
Percent of traffic signals inspected with semi-annual preventive maintenance performed 
Percent of streetlights inspected with semi-annual preventative maintenance performed
Number of Sanitary Sewer Overflows 
Regulatory Compliance
Percent of regulatory requirements monitored and completed on schedule
Percent trash reduction in storm water
Number of illegal dumping incidents reported
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Number of days per year the Wastewater Treatment Plant was in full compliance with water, air, and hazardous materials 
regulations 
Millions of gallons of wastewater treated at the City's wastewater treatment plant
Cost of treatment at the City's wastewater treatment plant per millions of gallons
89
526 of 763

--- page 527 ---
Public Works
TYPE
2020-21
 RESULTS
2021-22
 RESULTS
2022-23
 ESTIMATE
2023-24
 TARGET
Workoad
8,262
9,400
7,000
7,000
Performance
243
172
175
175
Performance
71
72
72
75
Workload
200
200
200
200
Performance
12.2
14.3
11.8
<5
Performance
9.0
12.6
8.7
<5
Workload
110
141
120
110
Performance
88
57
90
77
Performance
80%
43%
90%
70%
Workload
820
1,192
950
1,200
Performance
738
928
850
765
Performance
90%
78%
90%
85%
Performance
90%
85%
90%
90%
Performance
88%
91%
98%
98%
Performance
36%
37%
38%
45%
Workload
247
290
240
250
Performance
100%
74%
100%
100%
Workload
95
145
95
85
Performance
85
144
85
80
Performance
100%
106%
100%
100%
Performance
100%
43%
100%
100%
Workload
<10 
<10 
<10 
<10 
Performance
100%
100%
100%
100%
Performance
90%
83%
100%
90%
Workload
660
576
650
650
Performance
99%
99%
100%
100%
Workload
3,702
3,834
3,702
4,000
Workload
$4,032
$3,382
$3,500
$3,500
90
527 of 763

--- page 528 ---
Non-Departmental
FINANCIALS
2020-21
ACTUALS
2021-22
ACTUALS
2022-23
ADJUSTED 
BUDGET
2023-24
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Expenditures by Category
Operating
 $     71,148,856  $     74,334,264  $     79,264,802  $     83,449,568 
Capital Outlay
          7,331,474           8,557,315           9,544,779           8,890,507 
Debt Service
        17,665,485         18,289,040         20,756,267         34,851,761 
Total Expenditures
 $     96,145,815  $   101,180,619  $   109,565,848  $   127,191,836 
Funding Sources
General Fund
 $     32,238,109  $     34,801,995  $     36,341,849  $     38,629,561 
Special Revenue Funds
                       -                  22,007                21,326                21,966 
Debt Service Funds
        24,197,570         23,999,603         20,326,558         34,126,370 
Internal Service Funds
        39,710,135         42,357,013         52,876,115         54,413,939 
Total Funding Sources
 $     96,145,815  $   101,180,619  $   109,565,848  $   127,191,836 
Overview
In addition to expenditures that are directly related to departmental operations, there are also significant expenditures that 
are not directly attributable to the departments. The largest of the non-departmental expenditures is related to our internal 
services mechanism. To reflect the full cost of operations in departmental budgets, the cost of benefits (medical, dental, 
pension, etc.) and vehicle/equipment replacement is included in those budgets. To administer these programs in an 
efficient manner, the actual funds from each department are collected into a series of internal service funds, which 
consolidate the monies to pay for the benefits and vehicle/equipment replacements. Internal service fund expenses are 
not included in the total operating budget, as they are already incorporated into each department’s operations.
The second largest non-departmental expenditure reflects the City’s contribution to San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department (SMC Fire), a joint powers authority (JPA) between the City of Belmont, City of Foster City, and City of San 
Mateo, for fire services. Operations in SMC Fire commenced in January 2019, and in accordance with the JPA, its costs 
are allocated 20% each to Foster City and Belmont, and 60% to San Mateo. For 2023-24, the City’s contribution amounts 
to $27.5 million. 
The non-departmental budget for 2023-24 also includes $6.8 million in net legacy costs for pension liability, workers’ 
compensation, and retiree medical related to retirees and former employees from the City’s fire operations that have 
transferred to SMC Fire. Combined with the contribution to SMC Fire, the City’s cost for fire services totals $34.3 million 
for 2023-24. 
Another large non-departmental expenditure is the payment of debt service.  This includes payment for the library general 
obligation bonds, golf bonds, sewer bonds, lease revenue bonds related to the funding of the police administration 
building, and lease revenue bonds for  street and flood control improvements.
Finally, the General Fund contribution to the Comprehensive Liability Fund is included as part of non-departmental 
expenditures. The amount for 2023-24 is $2.5 million.
91
528 of 763

--- page 529 ---
127
FUND INFORMATION
Fund
Information
92
529 of 763

--- page 530 ---
130
CITY OF SAN MATEO PROPOSED 2023-24 BUDGET
Special Revenue
93
530 of 763

--- page 531 ---
Police Grants and Safety
POLICE GRANTS AND SAFETY
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$
256 
$
246 
$
294 
$
-
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$
4 
$
5 
$
6 
$
7
Asset Seizure
21 
8 
- 
 
 
- 
 
State Grants
391 
803 
564 
513 
Total Revenues
$
417 
$
816 
$
570 
$
519
Expenditures
Personnel
$
315 
$
695 
$
570 
$
477
Operating
  22 
  72 
  294 
  8 
Capital Outlay
  90 
  -   
  -   
  -   
Total Expenditures
$
427 
$
767 
$
864 
$
485
Ending Fund Balance
$
246 
$
294 
$
-
$
34
Values are shown in thousands.
The purpose of the Police Grants and Safety Fund is to receive and track all Police Department grant revenue, asset forfeiture revenue, and 
corresponding expenditures in accordance with prescribed regulations. Revenues for this fund are comprised of state and federal asset forfeiture 
funds, and grants from mainly sources such as the Citizens' Option for Public Safety Program's Supplemental Law Enforcement Services Funds 
(COPS/SLESF); the State Office of Traffic Safety (OTS) Grant; and the State Department of Justice Tobacco Grant Program. 
State and federal asset forfeiture funds are assets that have been confiscated by the state or federal government, which are typically the proceeds 
or instruments of crime. Receiving and tracking asset forfeiture funds in the Police Grants and Safety Fund began in 2018-19.  Prior to 2018-19, asset 
forfeiture funds were deposited into the Capital Improvement Projects Fund. Moving these funds into the Police Grants and Safety Fund allows for 
greater visibility to available resources and more efficient reporting on how these funds are being utilized. 
The COPS/SLESF grant was established in 1996. Compliant cities are allocated a proportionate share of COPS funds by the State for the exclusive 
purpose of funding supplemental front line law enforcement services. Under the standard grant program allocation, the City of San Mateo is eligible 
to receive a minimum grant amount of $100,000 each year, with additional proportionate shares based on population estimates determined by the 
California Department of Finance. Funds for this program cannot supplant existing funding and are to be used for personnel and/or equipment. 
In the 2023-24 budget, proceeds from this grant will cover the cost of two partial traffic officer positions. While the COPS program is intended to 
be ongoing and permanent, there is no guarantee that continued funding will be available. However, the forecast assumes this fund will remain 
operating as usual.
Recognizing the need to improve overall traffic and transportation safety, Congress passed the National Highway Safety Act, which provides for 
federal traffic safety funds to states. The California Office of Traffic Safety (OTS) was created to administer the funds and provide grants to both 
the San Mateo Police Department and regionally to San Mateo County for the purpose of reducing traffic deaths, injuries, and economic losses. 
Each year, eligible agencies compete for available funds by submitting proposals to address traffic safety problems. OTS does not have sufficient 
funds for all submissions, and reviews proposals against several criteria, including the potential traffic safety impact, collision statistics, seriousness 
of identified problems, and performance on previous grants. San Mateo has been a recipient of this grant annually since 1996. In the 2023-24 
budget, proceeds from this grant will provide additional resources to combat impaired driving; enforce traffic laws; and conduct sobriety/driver 
license checkpoints, DUI saturation patrols, and targeted pedestrian/bicycle safety enforcement operations to help achieve the overarching goal of 
reducing injury traffic collisions.
The 2023-24 budget also reflects expenditures planned as a result of a grant awarded from the California Department of Justice for the Proposition 
56 Tobacco Grant Program. This grant funds a Police Officer position dedicated to reducing and preventing the use of tobacco products among 
youth, teens, and the community at large through education, outreach, and enforcement activities. The total grant award is $710,114 and will be 
expended over the course of three years. 
The two-year financial plan being presented represents the best estimate of grant revenues and the spending plan as of the update of the budget. 
Each aspect will be monitored and adjustments may be made as necessary to keep the fund's balance positive.
94
531 of 763

--- page 532 ---
Solid Waste
SOLID WASTE
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
7,832 
$ 
9,557 
$ 
10,761 
$ 
10,171 
$ 
9,955 
$ 
9,703 
$ 
9,392 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$
15 
$ 
155
$ 
160 
$ 
160 
$ 
160 
$ 
160 
$ 
160 
Service Charges
  2,991 
  3,084 
  2,610 
  2,632 
  2,654 
  2,676 
  2,699 
Other Revenues
  662 
  852 
  662 
  662 
  662 
  662 
  662 
Total Revenues
$ 
3,668 
$ 
4,090 
$ 
3,432 
$ 
3,454 
$ 
3,476 
$ 
3,498 
$ 
3,521 
Expenditures
Personnel
$ 
1,313 
$ 
1,477
$ 
2,057 
$ 
2,098 
$ 
2,140 
$ 
2,204 
$ 
2,270 
Operating
  535 
  641 
 784 
 800 
 816 
 832 
 849 
Capital Outlay
  42 
  18 
 432 
 22 
 22 
 23 
 23 
Total Expenditures
$ 
1,890 
$ 
2,136 
$ 
3,272 
$ 
2,919 
$ 
2,978 
$ 
3,059 
$ 
3,142 
Transfer Out
$ 
54 
$ 
750 
$ 
750 
$ 
750 
$ 
750 
$ 
750 
$ 
750 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
9,557 
$ 
10,761 
$ 
10,171 
$ 
9,955 
$ 
9,703 
$ 
9,392 
$ 
9,021 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Solid Waste Fund accounts for garbage collection surcharge revenues, which are restricted by City ordinance to be 
used for street cleaning and waste management. The street cleaning aspect of this fund consists of keeping 204 curb miles 
of streets swept, as well as cleaning and maintaining City-owned parking lots. The waste management aspect of this fund 
involves the coordination and oversight of a range of programs and activities that provide the community with solid waste 
and recycling services.  
Included in the service charges is $750,000 per year that the fund receives through the garbage collection provider 
for capital improvements related to the trash load reduction requirements of the Municipal Regional Plan issued by the 
Regional Quality Control Board. The five-year plan shows the transfer out of these funds to the Capital Improvement 
Projects Fund for trash capture device projects to meet the trash reduction requirements.
Fund balance has accumulated in this fund as expenditures have been lower than expected over the past several years. 
Going forward, services for street cleaning and waste management will continue to be evaluated to ensure that the level 
of support being provided is sufficient. Service charges will continue to be evaluated and adjusted as necessary to ensure 
alignment with expected expenditures and appropriate reserve levels.
95
532 of 763

--- page 533 ---
HOME
HOME
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
942 
$ 
373 
$ 
434 
$ 
439 
Revenues
Loan Payments
$ 
87 
$
61 
$
15 
$
15
Total Revenues
$ 
87 
$ 
61 
$ 
15 
$ 
15 
Expenditures
Operating
$
5 
$ 
- 
$
10 
$
10
Loan Forgiveness
 
 
650 
- 
 
 
-    
 
- 
Total Expenditures
$ 
655 
$ 
- 
$ 
10 
$ 
10 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
373 
$ 
434 
$ 
439 
$ 
444 
Values are shown in thousands.
The HOME Investment Partnership (HOME) Program is a federal grant used to assist rental and homeownership housing 
opportunities for households up to 60-80% of the median income. The City received an annual HOME grant from 1994 to 
2016. The fund now includes program income from loan repayments from loans funded with HOME monies in the past. 
The program income from prior HOME loans will continue to be collected, and potential projects will be identified as the 
fund balance reaches an appropriate level. Resources accumulated fund HOME-eligible uses, such as new construction of 
housing, acquisition and rehabilitation of existing buildings, and down payment assistance. $650,000 has been committed 
to finance the construction of a new affordable housing project in Downtown San Mateo.  
96
533 of 763

--- page 534 ---
Community Development Block Grant
CDBG FUND
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
 FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
375 
$ 
357 
$ 
209 
$ 
50 
Revenues
Intergovernmental Contributions
$ 
1,743 
$ 
369 
$ 
696 
$ 
696 
Loan Payments
  31 
  5 
  8 
  8 
Total Revenues
$ 
1,774 
$ 
374 
$ 
704 
$ 
704 
Expenditures
Personnel
$ 
26 
$ 
48 
$ 
24 
$ 
24 
Operating
  738 
  457 
  229 
  224 
Total Expenditures
$ 
764 
$ 
505 
$ 
253 
$ 
248 
Transfer Out
$ 
1,028 
$ 
17 
$ 
610 
$ 
410 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
357 
$ 
209 
$ 
50 
$ 
96 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program is a federal grant from the Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD) that provides flexible funding for community development projects and programs to assist lower 
income neighborhoods and households up to 80% of the median income. San Mateo has participated in this program since 
1977. The fund consists of draws against the grant letter of credit, as well as program income from loan repayments from 
loans funded with CDBG in the past. The letter of credit consists of prior year unexpended funds in addition to the annual 
grant. These funds are held by HUD and drawn down on a reimbursement basis to the City.
In FY 2020-21 City received $1,260,683 additional funds to specifically address COVID related impacts to community.  
Expenditures of these funds started in 2020 and continued to be drawn from 2021 to 2023 for emergency rental assistance 
and small business assistance to child care providers.
For the next two years, CDBG funds will be used for Community Funding grants to local social service agencies who serve 
lower income residents, facility repairs for local service agencies, minor home repairs to lower income homeowners, 
pedestrian and bike improvements in North Shoreview and North Central neighborhoods, and program administration. 
97
534 of 763

--- page 535 ---
Advance Planning
ADVANCE PLANNING
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
5,213 
$ 
4,605 
$ 
4,459 
$ 
4,878 
 
$ 
5,270 
$ 
5,634 
$ 
5,968 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(132)
$ 
89 
$ 
92 
$ 
92 
$ 
92 
$ 
92 
$ 
92 
General Plan Maintenance Fee
  1,039 
  1,590 
  1,700 
  1,700 
  1,700 
  1,700 
  1,700 
State Grants
  -   
  -   
  50 
  50 
  50 
  50 
  50 
Total Revenues
$ 
906 
$ 
1,679 
$ 
1,842 
$ 
1,842 
$ 
1,842 
$ 
1,842 
$ 
1,842 
Expenditures
Personnel
$ 
601 
$ 
568 
$ 
597 
$ 
609 
$ 
621 
$ 
633 
$ 
646 
Operating
  913 
  1,141 
  825 
  841 
  857 
  874 
  891 
Total Expenditures
$ 
1,514 
$ 
1,709 
$ 
1,423 
$ 
1,450 
$ 
1,478 
$ 
1,507 
$ 
1,537 
Transfer Out
$ 
- 
$ 
116 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
4,605 
$ 
4,459 
$ 
4,878 
$ 
5,270 
$ 
5,634 
$ 
5,968 
$ 
6,274 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Advance Planning Fund accounts for the General Plan maintenance fee collected through building permits and 
expenditures for activities related to preparing long-term plans and policy documents for the physical and economic 
development of the City, including the General Plan update. These plans and policies are used for the evaluation of 
development projects and determining priorities for public improvements.
Prior to 2021-2022, the Community Development Department increased the General Plan maintenance fee to account for 
the costs associated with several long-range planning efforts the City needs to complete. Although revenue was down in 
2021-2022, the maintenance fee is expected to bring in additional revenue in future years given the volume and size of the 
projects in the development pipeline. 
It is anticipated that operating expenditures will be lower in 2023-24 largely due to the bulk of the General Pan Update 
being completed in prior fiscal years. In future budget years, Advance Planning staff will be monitoring passage and 
implementation of new State legislation, the next iteration of the Sustainable Communities Strategy (Plan Bay Area) by 
the Association of Bay Area Governments and Metropolitan Transportation Commission, completing near-term Zoning 
Code Amendments, preparing and adopting the General Plan Update, creating objective design standards for residential 
development, and implementing general planning, zoning, and policy recommendations as directed by the City Council.  In 
future cycles, the implementation of the General Plan Update and revision of the City’s various specific plans and zoning 
code will be funded by the Advance Planning Fund.
98
535 of 763

--- page 536 ---
Construction Services
The Construction Services Fund accounts for building permit revenues and expenditures for activities related to the review 
of private development projects to achieve high quality and long-term economic growth in the City. Building Division 
staff members also ensure that new construction meets established standards for health and safety, accessibility, energy 
efficiency, and provide public education to enhance the safety of existing buildings and better awareness of building codes. 
Over the last several years, fund balance has grown significantly. Revenue in this fund is for services to be provided over 
time, and therefore, the significant fund balance will be needed over time to provide services for existing projects in 
process. While revenues in the five-year plan are expected to remain stable in the near term, service demand is expected 
to remain high to fully process existing projects. This is reflected in the ending fund balance being drawn upon over the 
course of the five-year plan. 
Beginning in 2019-20, lease payments through a transfer out have been made to the General Fund for space occupied 
by construction services staff in City Hall. Additionally, a number of funding commitments are made to transfer out to 
the Capital Improvement Projects Fund to support the digital storage of property records and electronic review of plans 
submittals, the traffic model update, and facilities improvements. 
Beginning in 2021-22 through 2023-24, as part of the fiscal sustainability plan, and in recognition of the General Fund not 
charging the full administrative burden to the Construction Services Fund since the Great Recession, a total of $10 million 
over the three year period to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund will supplant the General Fund transfer to support 
priority general capital projects, such as the high voltage streetlight conversion. 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICES
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
41,364 
$ 
36,314 
$ 
35,320 
$ 
26,155 
$ 
21,973 
$ 
17,999 
$ 
14,110 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(1,059)
$ 
458 
$ 
479 
$ 
479 
$ 
479 
$ 
479 
$ 
479 
Plan Check Fees
  4,282 
  6,134 
  3,156 
  3,199 
  3,243 
  3,288 
  3,334 
Permit Fees
  4,196 
  5,493 
  4,660 
  4,753 
  4,848 
  4,945 
  5,044 
Other Fees
  323 
  496 
  525 
  536 
  546 
  557 
  568 
Total Revenues
$ 
7,741 
$ 
12,580 
$ 
8,820 
$ 
8,967 
$ 
9,117 
$ 
9,269 
$ 
9,425 
Expenditures
Personnel
$ 
7,141 
$ 
6,795 
$ 
9,371 
$ 
9,374 
$ 
9,377 
$ 
9,380 
$ 
9,383 
Operating
  2,753 
  2,215 
  3,049 
  3,096 
  3,144 
  3,194 
  3,245 
Capital Outlay
  38 
  39 
  39 
  39 
  39 
  39 
  39 
Total Expenditures
$ 
9,932 
$ 
9,049 
$ 
12,459 
$ 
12,509 
$ 
12,560 
$ 
12,613 
$ 
12,667 
Transfer Out
$ 
2,859 
$ 
4,525 
$ 
5,526 
$ 
640 
$ 
530 
$ 
546 
$ 
563 
Ending Fund Balance
 $ 36,314 
 $ 35,320 
 $ 26,155 
 $ 21,973 
 $ 17,999 
 
$ 
14,110 
 $ 10,305 
Values are shown in thousands.
99
536 of 763

--- page 537 ---
The Gas Tax Fund accounts for gasoline tax revenues that are utilized for street-related operating and capital costs. The 
fund makes an annual transfer to the General Fund to partially offset eligible operating costs related to the City's streets and 
roads maintenance programs. Additionally, it makes annual contributions to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund to fund 
various capital improvement projects.  
Fuel consumption was sharply down during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic but has largely recovered to the pre-
pandemic rate of consumption. Fuel prices increased steeply due to inflation but the price of fuel no longer has a direct 
effect on local streets and roads revenues because gas tax rates are per gallon, regardless of price. Scheduled gax tax 
rate increases help keeping the revenue growth at a modest pace. Based on the State Department of Finance (DOF) 
estimates, staff anticipates the City's gas tax revenues will reach $2.7 million in 2022-23, and further increase to $3 
million for 2023-24. The five-year plan maintains the annual transfer to the General Fund, and makes contributions to the 
Capital Improvement Projects Fund to fund street reconstruction and rehabilitation projects. As more information becomes 
available on the impacts to gasoline tax revenues, this plan will be updated accordingly.
GAS TAX
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
679 
$ 
1,081 
$ 
(565)
$ 
198 
$
11 
$
6 
$ 
73 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(18)
$
12 
$
12 
$
12 
$
12 
$
12 
$
12
State Gas Tax
  1,465 
  1,810 
  1,971 
  2,010 
  2,050 
  2,091 
  2,132 
Gas Tax In Lieu of 
Prop 42
  721 
  908 
  1,048 
  1,069 
  1,090 
  1,112 
  1,134 
Total Revenues
$ 
2,168 
$ 
2,730 
$ 
3,030 
$ 
3,091 
$ 
3,152 
$ 
3,215 
$ 
3,278 
Transfer Out
$ 
1,766 
$ 
4,376 
$ 
2,268 
$ 
3,278 
$ 
3,158 
$ 
3,148 
$ 
3,148 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
1,081 
$ 
(565)
$ 
198 
$
11 
$
6 
$ 
73 
$ 
204 
Values are shown in thousands.
Gas Tax
100
537 of 763

--- page 538 ---
CITY HOUSING
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
956 
$ 
1,058 
$ 
939 
$ 
775 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
- 
$ 
 
18 
$ 
 
18 
$ 
 
18 
Miscellaneous
  150 
-
16
  16 
Total Revenues
$ 
150 
$ 
18 
$ 
34 
$ 
34 
Expenditures
Contribution to Other Agencies
$ 
47 
$ 
47 
$ 
47 
$ 
47 
Contribution to First Time Home Buyers
-
90
  150 
  150 
Operating
  1 
-
2
  2 
Total Expenditures
$ 
48 
$ 
137 
$ 
199 
$ 
199 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
1,058 
$ 
939 
$ 
775 
$ 
610 
Values are shown in thousands.
The City Housing Fund captures a variety of housing-related revenues, including loan repayments from the defunct federal 
Rental Rehabilitation Program, a pro rata share of the original homebuyer loans at the Meadow Court housing complex, fees 
collected for housing loan subordination requests, and the fractional Below Market Rate (BMR) program in lieu fees. 
This fund can be used to assist housing-related projects when the fund balance is sufficient and appropriate projects are 
identified. For the next two years, funds are set aside to assist first-time homebuyers on purchasing housing units that 
the City has acquired in order to retain their below market rate status. Additionally, funds will be used to pay for financial 
assistance to Samaritan House for Safe Harbor, the county-wide homeless shelter located in South San Francisco, and 
the City membership fee for The Housing Endowment and Regional Trust of San Mateo County (HEART), the countywide 
housing trust fund. These expenditures cannot be covered by other housing funds since they are not located in the city 
limits of San Mateo.
City Housing
101
538 of 763

--- page 539 ---
LOW AND MODERATE INCOME HOUSING ASSET
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
7,072 
$ 
4,331 
$ 
4,542 
$ 
4,683 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
28 
$ 
64 
$ 
73 
 
$ 
73 
Loan Payments
165 
 
 
244 
214 
 
 
220 
Total Revenues
$ 
193 
$ 
308 
$ 
287 
 
$ 
293 
Expenditures
Personnel
$ 
45 
$ 
45 
$ 
48 
$ 
48 
Operating
40 
51 
99 
99 
Loan Forgiveness
 
 
2,850 
- 
 
 
-    
 
- 
Total Expenditures
$ 
2,934 
$ 
96 
$ 
146 
$ 
147 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
4,331 
$ 
4,542 
$ 
4,683 
$ 
4,829 
Vales are shown in thousands.
The Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Fund consists of loan payments, lease payments, sale of property, and any 
other revenue generated from loans or assets held by the City as Housing Successor to the former Redevelopment Agency. 
State law regulates the use of these funds to support housing projects that assist households whose income ranges up to 
80% of median income.
The fund also consists of administrative costs to monitor existing housing projects, manage the existing loan portfolio, and 
plan for new projects. $2.85 million was committed in a prior fiscal year to finance the construction of a new affordable 
housing project in Downtown San Mateo.  
Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset
102
539 of 763

--- page 540 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION 
REVENUE 
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
12,560 
$ 
12,126 
$ 
(2,154) 
$ 
5,746 
$ 
15,063 
$ 
8,336 
$ 
6,245 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(329)
$ 
182 
$ 
187 
$ 
187 
$ 
187 
$ 
187 
$ 
187 
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
  137 
  143 
  10,780 
  19,672 
  1,229 
  1,740 
  1,000 
Total Revenues
$ 
(192)
$ 
325 
$ 
10,967 
$ 
19,859 
$ 
1,416 
$ 
1,927 
$ 
1,187 
Expenditures 
Operating
$
17 
$
16 
$
17 
$
17 
$
18 
$
18 
$
18
Total Expenditures
$ 
17 
$ 
16 
$ 
17 
$ 
18 
$ 
18 
$ 
18 
$ 
19 
Transfer Out
$ 
225 
$ 
14,589 
$ 
3,050 
$ 
10,525 
$ 
8,125 
$ 
4,000 
$ 
2,000 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
12,126 
$ 
(2,154)
$ 
5,746 
$ 
15,063 
$ 
8,336 
$ 
6,245 
$ 
5,413 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Parks and Recreation Revenue Fund accounts for parks and recreation tax, park impact fees, and park in-lieu 
fees. Revenue projections are based on residential building projects, and are thus dependent on development activity. 
Accumulated resources in this fund are utilized to fund parks and recreation related projects through a transfer to the 
Capital Improvement Projects Fund. 
Major transfers planned for 2023-24 include improvements related to King and Joinville pool assessments and 
improvements, as well as the Central Park Master Plan and sports field conversion to turf. Transfers planned beyond 2023-
24 include improvement to citywide play area upgrade, the Central Park Master Plan, sports field conversion to turf, and 
continued assessments and improvements to the King Pool.
Parks and Recreation Revenue
103
540 of 763

--- page 541 ---
TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
843 
$ 
257 
$ 
(1,707)
$ 
780 
$ 
3,387 
$ 
5,825 
$ 
5,541 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(21)
$ 
- 
$ 
32 
$ 
36 
$ 
36 
$ 
36 
$ 
36 
Traffic Impact Fees
  25 
  2,917 
  2,505 
  2,821 
  3,252 
  530 
  500 
Total Revenues
$
4 
$ 
2,917 
$ 
2,537 
$ 
2,857 
$ 
3,288 
$ 
566 
$ 
536 
Transfer Out
$ 
590 
$ 
4,882 
$ 
50 
$ 
250 
$ 
850 
$ 
850 
$ 
850 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
257 
$ 
(1,707)
$ 
780 
$ 
3,387 
$ 
5,825 
$ 
5,541 
$ 
5,227 
Values shown in thousands.
The Traffic Impact Fee Fund accounts for revenues that are collected to fund various capital projects to mitigate the 
traffic related cumulative impacts of new development. Revenues from this fund were used to partially pay for traffic 
calming projects, construction costs of new traffic signals, and to fund infrustructure projects such as the 25th Ave. Grade 
Separation Project, which was completed in 2021, and the Railroad Avenue Wall Enhancement project. These expenditures 
left the fund with a negative balance. The General Fund and/or the Capital Improvement Projects Fund temporarily loaned 
funds to the Traffic Impact Fee Fund to cover the City's contributions for these capital improvement projects. In the five-year 
Capital Improvement Plan, transfers are being made to fund bicycle projects, the Citywide Traffic Calming project, and the 
Traffic Impact Fee update.
Traffic Impact Fee
104
541 of 763

--- page 542 ---
The Commercial Linkage Fee is an assessment on new commercial developments to address the impacts of new job 
creation on housing availability and affordability for workers. Developers pay a fee based on square footage of new 
commercial space depending on type of use: office, retail, or hotel. The funds are to be used for housing programs to 
assist workers who make up to 120% of the area median income. Examples of housing programs can include acquisition, 
rehabilitation, or new construction of housing.
The fund balance is being accumulated over the period of this forecast. Potential projects will be identified as the fund 
balance reaches an appropriate level. Accumulated resources will be utilized to fund projects through a transfer to the 
Capital Improvement Projects Fund, and this plan will be updated accordingly as more information is available.
$4 million was committed from the fund to finance the construction of a new affordable housing project in Downtown San 
Mateo and the fund drawdown occured in 2021-22.
Commercial Linkage Fee
COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
7,157 
$ 
3,160 
$ 
3,264 
$ 
3,383 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(126)
$ 
109 
$ 
125 
$ 
125 
Commercial Linkage Fee
  133 
  -   
  -   
  -   
Total Revenues
$
7 
$ 
109 
$ 
125 
$ 
125 
Expenditures
Operating
$
5 
$
5 
$
5 
$
5
Loan Forgiveness
 
 
4,000 
- 
 
 
-    
 
- 
Total Expenditures
$ 
4,005 
$
5 
$
5 
$
5
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
3,160 
$ 
3,264 
$ 
3,383 
$ 
3,503 
Values are shown in thousands.
105
542 of 763

--- page 543 ---
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND 
REHABILITATION ACCOUNT
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
2,037 
$ 
2,166 
$ 
480 
$ 
1,111 
$ 
1,320 
$ 
1,411 
$ 
1,584 
Revenues
Road Maintenance and 
Rehabilitation
$ 
2,090 
$ 
2,294 
 
$ 
2,614 
 
$ 
2,693 
 
$ 
2,773 
 
$ 
2,857 
$ 
2,942
Interest Earnings
(68)
15
  17 
  17 
  17 
  17 
  17 
Total Revenues
$ 
2,022 
$ 
2,309 
$ 
2,631 
$ 
2,710 
$ 
2,790 
$ 
2,874 
$ 
2,959 
Transfer Out
$ 
1,892 
$ 
3,995 
$ 
2,000 
$ 
2,500 
$ 
2,700 
$ 
2,700 
$ 
2,700 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
2,166 
$ 
480 
$ 
1,111 
$ 
1,320 
$ 
1,411 
$ 
1,584 
$ 
1,844 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account (RMRA) Fund was created in 2020-21. It accounts for transportation 
taxes established by the Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017 (SB 1). Prior to 2020-21, RMRA revenues were 
deposited in the Gas Tax Fund, and then subsequently transferred to the Capital Improvement Projects Fund to fund eligible 
projects. Moving this revenue source into its own special revenue fund creates greater visibility to available resources for 
projects and will allow for more efficient reporting on how these funds are being utilized.
Based on the State Department of Finance (DOF) estimates, staff anticipates that the RMRA revenues will be approximately 
$2.9 million for FY 2022-23 and $2.6 million for FY 2023-24. Accumulated resources from the RMRA revenues will be 
utilized to fund street reconstruction and rehabilitation projects through a transfer to the Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) 
Fund. In the five-year plan, the annual transfers to CIP are over $2 million each year. 
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account
106
543 of 763

--- page 544 ---
PERMANENT LOCAL HOUSING ALLOCATION
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
- 
$
(23)
$
(23)
$ 
(23)
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(2)
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
State Grants
  177 
  368 
  500 
  500 
Total Revenues
$ 
175 
$ 
368 
$ 
500 
$ 
500 
Expenditures
Operating
$ 
198 
$ 
368 
$ 
500 
$ 
500 
Total Expenditures
$ 
198 
$ 
368 
$ 
500 
$ 
500 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
(23)
$
(23)
$
(23)
$ 
(23)
Values are shown in thousands.
The Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PLHA), which began in Fall 2020, is a State Grant that will continue on an annual 
basis based on actual State receipts of document recording fees. These funds are flexible as long as they are used for 
housing-related projects and programs that assist in addressing the unmet housing needs of San Mateo.
The fund supports two programs to support housing affordability in the City. The first is an operations subsidy for client 
services at the affordable housing development Montara and a rapid rehousing program with case management, which will 
use the remainder of the annual grant.
Permanent Local Housing Allocation
107
544 of 763

--- page 545 ---
The Landfill Fund was initially set up as a debt service fund to account for debt service payments for the landfill revenue 
bonds. Since the landfill bonds have been paid off, starting in fiscal year 2022-23, the Landfill Fund was reclassified to a 
special revenue fund. Surcharge revenues collected will be reviewed and adjusted in future years to reflect the reduction of 
the debt service obligation.
The Landfill Fund will continue to maintain a fund balance that is sufficient to meet the City's landfill closure and post-
closure obligations.  
Landfill
LANDFILL
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
2,923 
$ 
3,368 
$ 
3,921 
$ 
4,479 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(82)
$ 
50 
$ 
55 
$ 
55 
Garbage Collection Surcharge
  600 
  600 
  600 
  600 
Total Revenues
$ 
518 
$ 
650 
$ 
655 
$ 
655 
Expenditures
Personnel
$ 
26 
$ 
27 
$ 
27 
$
27
Operating
46 
70 
70 
70 
Total Expenditures
$ 
73 
$ 
97 
$ 
97 
$ 
97 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
3,368 
$ 
3,921 
$ 
4,479 
$ 
5,037 
Values are shown in thousands.
108
545 of 763

--- page 546 ---
148
CITY OF SAN MATEO PROPOSED 2023-24 BUDGET
Debt Service
109
546 of 763

--- page 547 ---
The City has two debt service funds: the Street and Flood Control Projects Bond Fund and the General Obligation Bonds 
Fund. 
The Street and Flood Control Projects Bond Fund is a new fund that accounts for debt service payments on lease revenue 
bonds issued in 2019-20 to finance the construction and acquisition of public improvements of the City, including street 
and flood control improvements. As these improvements are part of the Measure S initiatives, revenues from Measure S are 
transferred into this fund to administer the debt services. Additionally, a benefit assessment district was created in the North 
Shoreview neighborhood as it relates to the flood control improvements. Assessment levies are expected to be collected 
beginning 2023-24, and will pay approximately 6.9% of annual debt service beginning 2024-25. The remaining debt 
service is funded by the Measure S. 
Street & Flood Control Projects Bond
STREET & FLOOD CONTROL PROJECTS BOND
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
 2024-25 
FORECAST 
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
12 
$
5 
$
5 
$
5
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(8)
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
Total Revenues
$ 
(8)
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
Expenditures
Operating
$ 
29 
$ 
61 
$ 
63 
$ 
64 
Debt Service
 
2,634 
 
 
2,632 
 
 
2,629 
 
2,629 
Total Expenditures
$ 
2,663 
$ 
2,693 
$ 
2,692 
$ 
2,694 
Transfer In
$ 
2,664 
$ 
2,693 
$ 
2,692 
$ 
2,694 
Ending Fund Balance
$
5 
$
5 
$
5 
$
5
Values are shown in thousands.
110
547 of 763

--- page 548 ---
The General Obligation Bonds Fund accounts for voter-approved property tax revenues and debt service payments on the 
City's general obligation bonds that were utilized to finance the construction, acquisition, and improvement of a new main 
library and the improvement of the City's branch libraries. 
Other debt of the City is housed directly in the applicable operating and capital funds, with payments for debt service listed 
as a line item in the financial plans.
The City is bound by a provision in state law limiting the indebtedness for California cities to 15% of the assessed value of 
all real and personal property of the city. Based on the projected 2023-24 assessed value of $36.2 billion, San Mateo's 
legal debt limit for 2023-24 is $5.4 billion. For 2023-24, the City will be at only 0.3% of its legal debt limit. This statutory 
limitations applies only to bonded indebtedness of the City payable from proceeds of taxes levied on a property. For San 
Mateo, this includes only the general obligation bonds.
General Obligation Bonds
GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
 2024-25 
FORECAST 
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
5,688 
$ 
5,929 
$ 
5,970 
$ 
6,011 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(128)
$ 
97 
$ 
99 
$ 
99 
Property Taxes
 
 
2,448 
 
 
2,041 
 
 
2,049 
 
 
2,131 
Total Revenues
$ 
2,320 
$ 
2,138 
$ 
2,148 
$ 
2,230 
Expenditures
Operating
$ 
33 
$ 
57 
$ 
59 
$ 
59 
Debt Service
 
 
2,046 
 
 
2,041 
 
 
2,049 
 
 
2,062 
Total Expenditures
$ 
2,079 
$ 
2,098 
$ 
2,108 
$ 
2,121 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
5,929 
$ 
5,970 
$ 
6,011 
$ 
6,121 
Values are shown in thousands.
111
548 of 763

--- page 549 ---
2% Hotel Tax
2% HOTEL TAX
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
(572)
$ 
(1,364)
$ 
14 
$ 
37 
$ 
201 
$ 
508 
$ 
817 
Revenues
Transient Occupancy Tax
$ 
 
650 
$ 
 
833 
$ 
 
1,000 
$ 
 
1,167 
$ 
 
1,333 
$ 
 
1,360 
$ 
 
1,387 
Total Revenues
$ 
650 
$ 
833 
$ 
1,000 
$ 
1,167 
$ 
1,333 
$ 
1,360 
$ 
1,387 
Expenditures
Operating
$ 
128 
$ 
136 
$ 
139 
$ 
142 
$ 
145 
$ 
147 
$ 
150 
Debt Service
 
 
467 
 
 
720 
 
 
838 
861 
 
 
882 
 
 
903 
 
 
927 
Total Expenditures
$ 
596 
$ 
 
856 
$ 
977 
$ 
1,003 
$ 
1,027 
$ 
1,050 
$ 
1,077 
Transfer In
$ 
- 
$ 
1,450 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
Transfer Out
$ 
1,234 
$ 
49 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
(1,364)
$ 
14 
$ 
37 
$ 
201 
$ 
508 
$ 
817 
$ 
1,127 
Values are shown in thousands.
The 2% Hotel Tax Fund accounts for the Measure C voter-approved 2% hotel tax revenue, the related transfers to the 
Capital Improvement Program Fund, and the debt service on the variable rate bonds that were utilized to partially fund the 
police administration facility.
Due to COVID, hotel taxes decreased significantly. $4 million was transfered out to support the construction work related 
to the new Fire Station 25 and to the Borel Park development. As a result, the fund balance went negative at the close of 
2021-22. Through FY 2022-23 mid-year budget review, the Council approved making a one-time General Fund transfer to 
bring the fund back to positve. As shown on the five-year plan, staff anticipates hotel taxes will continue to recover, and the 
2% Hotel Tax Fund will accumulate suffcient funds to pay for debt service and related expenses. 
112
549 of 763

--- page 550 ---
156
CITY OF SAN MATEO PROPOSED 2023-24 BUDGET
Capital Project
113
550 of 763

--- page 551 ---
CAPITAL 
IMPROVEMENT 
PROJECTS
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
63,800 
$ 
55,482 
$ 
10,059 
$ 
9,658 
$ 
4,030 
$ 
4,151 
$ 
5,644 
Revenues
Taxes, Fees, and Charges $ 
8,830 
$ 
37,208 
$ 
13,612 
$ 
21,087 
$ 
18,959 
$ 
14,419 
$ 
12,517 
Transfers from Sewer 
Fund
 185,905 
 305,765 
 41,360 
 31,190 
 7,790 
 25,635 
 17,010 
Other Sources
 14,724 
 131,936 
 22,259 
 15,140 
 6,342 
 7,889 
 21,900 
Total Revenues
$ 
209,459 
$ 
474,909 
$ 
77,231 
$ 
67,416 
$ 
33,091 
$ 
47,943 
$ 
51,427 
Expenditures
Capital Outlay
$ 
218,396 
$ 
520,332 
$ 
78,032 
$ 
73,444 
$ 
33,370 
$ 
46,850 
$ 
50,665 
Total Expenditures
$ 
218,396 
$ 
520,332 
$ 
78,032 
$ 
73,444 
$ 
33,370 
$ 
46,850 
$ 
50,665 
Other Sources
$ 
619 
$
-
$ 
400 
$ 
400 
$ 
400 
$ 
400 
$ 
400 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
55,482 
$ 
10,059 
$ 
9,658 
$ 
4,030 
$ 
4,151 
$ 
5,644 
$ 
6,806 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Capital Improvement Projects Fund is where the majority of the City's capital-related financials reside. Revenues for 
this fund include transfers in from other funds, including the General, Gas Tax, Sewer, Parks and Recreation Revenue, Road 
Maintenance and Rehabilitation, and Traffic Impact Fee Funds, as well as from other tax and fee revenues. Projects in the 
Capital Improvement Project Fund are outlined in the CIP section of this budget document, and detailed information about 
revenues and expenditures related to projects can be found in that section.
Capital Improvement Projects
114
551 of 763

--- page 552 ---
160
CITY OF SAN MATEO PROPOSED 2023-24 BUDGET
Enterprise
115
552 of 763

--- page 553 ---
Sewer
SEWER (CASH BASIS)
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
157,611 
$ 
354,734 
$ 
185,647 
$ 
41,995 
$ 
144,630 
$ 
188,336 
$ 
191,991 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
2,500 
$ 
984 
$ 
1,012
$ 
1,000 
$ 
1,000 
$ 
1,000 
$ 
1,000 
Operating Revenues
  71,663 
  78,229 
  80,569 
  82,828 
  85,260 
  87,765 
 
 
90,344 
Bond/Loan Proceeds and 
Capital Contributions
  322,797 
  7,349 
  4,878 
  108,302 
  25,933 
  1,060 
 
 
1,060 
Total Revenues
$ 
396,961 
$ 
86,563 
$ 
86,459 
$ 
192,130 
$ 
112,193 
$ 
89,826 
$ 
92,404 
Expenses
Operating and Maintenance
$ 
24,409 
$ 
25,843 
$ 
28,492 
$ 
29,827 
$ 
31,228 
$ 
32,700 
$ 
34,245 
Capital Projects
  153,896 
  200,000 
  173,562 
  31,190 
  7,790 
  25,635 
 
 
17,010 
Debt Service
  21,533 
  28,013 
  28,056 
  28,478 
  29,469 
  27,835 
 
 
27,835 
Total Expenses
$ 
199,838 
$ 
253,855 
$ 
230,111 
$ 
89,495 
$ 
68,488 
$ 
86,170 
$ 
79,090 
Transfer Out
$ 
- 
$ 
1,794 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
354,734 
$ 
185,647 
$ 
41,995 
$ 
144,630 
$ 
188,336 
$ 
191,991 
$ 
205,305 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Sewer Fund consists of the sewer collection systems, the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP), and disposal 
facilities serving the residents and businesses of San Mateo, Foster City, and portions of the neighboring communities of 
Hillsborough, Belmont, the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, and certain unincorporated areas of the County. The 
sewer enterprise system currently serves approximately 30,000 customer accounts in the City and approximately 11,000 
customer accounts in Foster City and the subregional customer communities utilizing the WWTP. 
The fund's financial plan consists of two elements: (1) the 2023-24 proposed operating budget and forecast of future 
operational needs, and (2) estimated cash inflows and outflows for sewer capital improvement projects (CIP) during the 
forecast period. The capital expenses identified in this financial plan, as well as the corresponding bond/loan proceeds, are 
predominantly related to the execution of the Clean Water Program, which is discussed in detail in the Capital Improvement 
Program section of this document.
In 2018, the City Council adopted a five-year sewer rate structure for fiscal years 2018-19 through 2022-23 designed to 
provide sufficient revenues to fund ongoing operations and capital projections. The 50/50 volumetric/fixed fee structure 
was implemented.  The new rate structure introduced a fixed monthly fee to better stabilized revenue and help address 
revenue reductions due to increased water conservation. A recent Sewer Rate Study found that the past rate increases 
have put the City's sewer fund in a good financial position. Additionally, the City has been successful in getting a large 
amount of the Clean Water Program financed with low interest rate loans. As a result, only inflationary level rate increases 
will be required for future years.
The financial plan will be continually monitored and this plan will be updated accordingly.
116
553 of 763

--- page 554 ---
164
CITY OF SAN MATEO PROPOSED 2023-24 BUDGET
Internal Services
117
554 of 763

--- page 555 ---
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT 
REPLACEMENT
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
20,041 
$ 
19,156 
$ 
17,709 
$ 
11,020 
$ 
11,473 
$ 
12,086 
$ 
12,805 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(379)
$ 
236 
$ 
354 
$ 
220 
$ 
229 
$ 
242 
$ 
256 
Rental Charges - Vehicles
  653 
  719 
  788 
  812 
  812 
  812 
  812 
Rental Charges - Computers
  173 
  214 
  225 
  232 
  232 
  232 
  232 
Rental Charges - Radios
  14 
  43 
  43 
  44 
  44 
  44 
  44 
Rental Charges - Major Equipment
  729 
  719 
  715 
  736 
  736 
  736 
  736 
Rental Charges - Furniture
  69 
  67 
  67 
  69 
  69 
  69 
  69 
Other Revenues
43 
- 
 
 
- 
 
 
- 
 
 
- 
 
 
- 
 
 
- 
Total Revenues
$ 
1,301 
$ 
1,998 
$ 
2,191 
$ 
2,112 
$ 
2,121 
$ 
2,134 
$ 
2,148 
Expenses
Vehicle Replacement
$ 
563 
$ 
2,564 
$ 
3,052 
$ 
900 
$ 
563 
$ 
1,272 
$ 
143 
Computer Replacement
  163 
  280 
  770 
  255 
  87 
  227 
  909 
Radio Replacement
  - 
  - 
  274 
  399 
  - 
  - 
  - 
Major Equipment Replacement
  285 
-
4,724
  407 
  1,248 
  299 
  1,925 
Furniture Replacement
  34 
  40 
  71 
  106 
  20 
  27 
  34 
Other Capital Outlay & Depreciation
  722 
  (1,044)
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  - 
Total Expenses
$ 
1,767 
$ 
1,840 
$ 
8,891 
$ 
2,068 
$ 
1,918 
$ 
1,825 
$ 
3,011 
Transfer In
$ 
410 
$ 
704 
$ 
410 
$ 
410 
$ 
410 
$ 
410 
$ 
410 
Transfer Out
$ 
829 
$ 
2,309 
$ 
400 
$
- 
$
- 
$
- 
$
-
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
19,156 
$ 
17,709 
$ 
11,020 
$ 
11,473 
$ 
12,086 
$ 
12,805 
$ 
12,352 
Reserve for Major Building 
Component Replacements
$ 
2,050 
$ 
2,460 
$ 
2,870 
$ 
3,280 
$ 
3,690 
$ 
4,100 
$ 
4,510 
Remaining Fund Balance
$ 
17,106 
$ 
15,249 
$ 
8,150 
$ 
8,193 
$ 
8,396 
$ 
8,705 
$ 
7,842 
Values are shown in thousands.
118
555 of 763

--- page 556 ---
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement
The Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund accounts for charges to user departments to fund the replacement of 
vehicles and equipment. This includes vehicles, computers, radios, furniture, and other major equipment. Funds for future 
replacement are collected while vehicles and equipment are in service so that when it is time for replacement, adequate 
funds are available. Accumulated fund balance in this fund is estimated to be over $15 million at the end of fiscal year 2021-
22. Unlike the Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund, which is entirely an operating fund and doesn't require a significant
fund balance, the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund should have a significant fund balance by nature. As noted,
funds are collected for future replacement while vehicles and equipment are in use so that those funds are available when
the replacement is needed. Because of that, funds will accumulate over time for that replacement.
This fund collects annually from the operating departments, so it is also important that the amount of available fund balance 
considers this. To that end, a long-term spending plan is an important tool for managing this type of fund. Understanding 
spending needs over the short- and long-term and factoring in fund balance allows the City to set a collection amount that 
ensures funding is available when vehicles and equipment need to be replaced, but does not maintain such a large fund 
balance that creates an unnecessary burden on the other funds, particularly the General Fund. This five-year plan captures 
the long-term spending plans for each of the replacement categories, and sets future collections to ensure funding for 
replacements is available and fund balance is set at an appropriate level. 
In 2020-21, $2,000,000 was committed as a transfer out to the Capital Projects Fund to fund the replacement of the City's 
enterprise resource planning (ERP) software. Additional appropriation of $872,422 was approved for this project in 2021-22, 
making a total of $2,872,422. 
The five-year plan further captures a portion of the fund balance that is reserved for major building component 
replacements. Since 2017-18, the General Fund transfers $410,000 each year to this reserve and in 2022-23, the Sewer 
Fund will contribute $294,000. As the reserve balance reaches an appropriate level and major building replacement 
projects are identified, the accumulated funds will be utilized to fund the projects through a transfer to the Capital Projects 
Fund, and this plan will be updated accordingly.  
119
556 of 763

--- page 557 ---
Fleet and Building Maintenance
FLEET AND BUILDING 
MAINTENANCE
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
421 
$ 
755 
$ 
741 
$ 
668 
$ 
633 
$ 
639 
$ 
667 
Revenues
Charges to Dept. - Building
$ 
3,462 
$ 
3,566 
$ 
3,566 
$ 
3,744 
$ 
3,932 
$ 
4,049 
$ 
4,171 
Charges to Dept. - Fleet
  1,929 
  2,035 
  2,279 
  2,393 
  2,513 
  2,588 
  2,666 
Other Revenues
  16 
  8 
  8 
  8 
  8 
  8 
  8 
Total Revenues
$ 
5,407 
$ 
5,609 
$ 
5,852 
$ 
6,145 
$ 
6,452 
$ 
6,645 
$ 
6,844 
Expenses
Personnel
$ 
1,687 
$ 
1,584 
$ 
2,043 
$ 
2,105 
$ 
2,168 
$ 
2,211 
$ 
2,255 
Operating
  3,353 
  4,006 
  3,849 
  4,041 
  4,243 
  4,370 
  4,501 
Capital Outlay
  32 
  33 
  33 
  34 
  35 
  35 
  36 
Total Expenses
$ 
5,073 
$ 
5,623 
$ 
5,926 
$ 
6,180 
$ 
6,446 
$ 
6,617 
$ 
6,793 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
755 
$ 
741 
$ 
668 
$ 
633 
$ 
639 
$ 
667 
$
718
Values are shown in thousands.
The Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund accounts for charges to user departments and the expenses related to the 
maintenance of City vehicles and buildings. This fund is primarily operational in nature, with vehicle and equipment 
replacement expenses being housed in a separate internal service fund. As such, charges to user departments, over time, 
should be set fairly close to expected expenses, as there is not a need to keep a significant amount of fund balance in this 
fund. With expenses outpacing revenues in the past few years, collections were set to increase significantly (starting from 
2020-21) to ensure the fund remains healthy and with an appropriate level of reserves. 
120
557 of 763

--- page 558 ---
Benefits
BENEFITS
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED
2023-24 
PROPOSED
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$
116 
$ 
(266)
$
(125)
$ 
241 
$ 
523 
$ 
799 
$ 
1,068 
Revenues
Internal Service Charge - 
Pension
$ 
24,024 
$ 
26,196 
$ 
27,416 
$ 
29,307 
$ 
29,847 
$ 
31,327 
$ 
32,541 
Internal Service Charge - 
Social Security/Medicare
 
 
3,242 
 
 
3,212 
 
 
3,723 
 
 
3,797 
 
 
3,873 
 
 
3,950 
 
 
4,029 
Internal Service Charge - 
Healthcare
 
 
8,510 
 
 
8,461 
 
 
9,397 
 
 
9,942 
 
 
10,562 
 
 
11,221 
 
 
11,855 
Internal Service Charge - 
Severance Trust
1,214 
 
 
1,224 
 
 
1,273 
 
 
1,298 
 
 
1,324 
 
 
1,350 
1,377 
Internal Service Charge - 
Other
 
 
2,449 
 
 
2,652 
 
 
2,815 
 
 
2,909 
 
 
2,971 
 
 
3,034 
 
 
3,098 
Total Revenues
$ 
39,439 
$ 
41,746 
$ 
44,623 
$ 
47,253 
$ 
48,577 
$ 
50,882 
$ 
52,900 
Expenses
Pension
$ 
24,067 
$ 
26,200 
$ 
27,416 
$ 
29,307 
$ 
29,847 
$ 
31,327 
$ 
32,541 
Social Security/Medicare
 
 
3,242 
 
 
3,212 
 
 
3,723 
 
 
3,797 
 
 
3,873 
 
 
3,950 
 
 
4,029 
Healthcare
 
 
8,914 
 
 
8,527 
 
 
9,214 
 
 
9,838 
 
 
10,457 
11,116 
 
 
11,751 
Severance Trust
 
 
1,227 
1,100 
1,144 
1,167 
1,190 
1,214 
 
 
1,238 
Other
 
 
2,371 
 
 
2,567 
 
 
2,761 
 
 
2,863 
 
 
2,934 
 
 
3,006 
 
 
3,079 
Total Expenses
$ 
39,822 
$ 
41,605 
$ 
44,257 
$ 
46,971 
$ 
48,301 
$ 
50,613 
$ 
52,638 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
(266)
$
(125)
$ 
241 
$ 
523 
$ 
799 
$ 
1,068 
$ 
1,330 
Values are shown in thousands.
121
558 of 763

--- page 559 ---
Benefits
The Benefits Fund accounts for the collection of funds from operating departments to cover the cost of employee benefits. 
The expenses covered by this fund include pension, social security/medicare, retiree healthcare, the City's payment for 
medical premiums for active employees, funding for the severance trust (to pay for the cashout of unused vacation to 
employees who retire or otherwise leave the City), as well as a few other benefit costs, such as life insurance and long-term 
disability insurance. In some cases, the cost of providing these benefits is known and collections can be set accordingly. 
For example, the normal cost of pensions is set as a percentage of pay, so collections can be set based on that percentage 
of pay. In other cases, such as for the funding of the severance trust, the cost is an estimate based on historical actuals, but 
will fluctuate annually based on different factors. Thus, to accommodate the fluctuation of expenses like those related to the 
severance trust, the fund should maintain some level of fund balance. To that end, collections for the various components 
of this fund have been set to collect costs to fund the programs adequately while maintaining a level of fund balance that 
allows for the year-over-year fluctuations without requiring a transfer from the General Fund. 
The largest expense category in this fund is related to pension expenses. As discussed in detail in the Budget Overview 
section of the budget document, pension expenses are expected to increase significantly over the next five to seven years 
due to CalPERS' investment losses from FY 2021-22. These increases will continue to put pressure on the operating funds, 
as a larger and larger percentage of the budget will be required to cover pension cost increases. 
After the transfer of the City's fire operations to SMC Fire in 2018-19, with the exception of the Bureau of Fire Protection and 
Life Safety (Bureau), what remains as the City's responsibility is the former fire department employees' unfunded pension 
liability and retiree health benefits, as those costs are attributable to years of service to the City. These legacy costs are 
transferred from the General Fund and administered through this fund. Bureau activities are designed to be full cost 
recovery, so with the transition to SMC Fire, legacy pension costs for former Bureau personnel are the responsibility of SMC 
Fire.
Fund balance temporarily went negative primarily due to actual expenses for health insurance and retiree medical 
exceeded the budget.  Staff has adjusted the collection rates for the out years in the the five-year plan. The long-term 
forecast has the fund building back up its fund balance gradually. Actual expenses will be analyzed over time and annual 
collections will be adjusted accordingly.
122
559 of 763

--- page 560 ---
Dental
DENTAL
 2021-22 
ACTUALS 
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
791 
$ 
1,078 
$ 
1,041 
$ 
1,018 
$ 
980 
$ 
925 
$ 
852 
Revenues
Internal Service Charges
$ 
802 
$
733 
$ 
785 
$ 
809 
$ 
833 
$ 
858 
$ 
884 
Total Revenues
$ 
802 
$ 
733 
$ 
785 
$ 
809 
$ 
833 
$ 
858 
$ 
884 
Expenses
Insurance Premiums
$
514 
$
770 
$ 
808 
$
847 
$ 
888 
$
931 
$ 
976 
Total Expenses
$ 
514 
$ 
770 
$ 
808 
$ 
847 
$ 
888 
$ 
931 
$ 
976 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
1,078 
$ 
1,041 
$ 
1,018 
$ 
980 
$ 
925 
$ 
852 
$ 
760 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Dental Self-Insurance Fund accounts for the City's self-insurance activities related to the dental plan the City provides 
its employees. Collections for this fund are made by charging departments a flat amount for each employee. Expenses in 
this fund consist almost entirely of the premiums the City pays on behalf of its employees for dental coverage. As actual 
expenses are analyzed over time, annual collections amounts will be adjusted accordingly.
123
560 of 763

--- page 561 ---
Workers' Compensation Insurance
WORKERS' 
COMPENSATION 
INSURANCE
2021-22 
ACTUALS
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
(183)
$ 
5,130 
$ 
4,912 
$ 
4,698 
$ 
4,814 
$ 
5,010 
$ 
5,287 
Revenues
Interest Earnings
$ 
(430)
$ 
268 
$ 
306 
$ 
306 
$ 
306 
$ 
306 
$ 
306 
Internal Service Charges
 4,501 
 4,070 
 3,804 
 3,918 
 4,036 
 4,157 
 4,282 
Total Revenues
$ 
4,071 
$ 
4,338 
$ 
4,110 
$ 
4,224 
$ 
4,342 
$ 
4,463 
$ 
4,588 
Expenses
Personnel
$ 
409 
$ 
379 
$ 
397 
$ 
407 
$
415 
$ 
423 
$
431
Operating
 862 
 852 
 972 
 1,001 
 1,031 
 1,062 
 1,094 
Claims
 1,225 
 1,500 
 2,500 
 2,500 
 2,500 
 2,500 
 2,500 
Acturial Adjustment
 (3,739)
 324 
 455 
 200 
 200 
 200 
 200 
Total Expenses
$ 
(1,242)
$ 
3,055 
$ 
4,325 
$ 
4,108 
$ 
4,146 
$ 
4,185 
$ 
4,226 
Transfer Out
$ 
- 
$ 
1,500 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
5,130 
$ 
4,912 
$ 
4,698 
$ 
4,814 
$ 
5,010 
$ 
5,287 
$ 
5,650 
Values are shown in thousands.
The Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund accounts for all workers' compensation self-insurance activities. This includes 
the cost of claims, insurance, legal and other professional services, and program administration. The total cost of claims 
constitutes the largest expense in this fund.  Workers' compensation expenses can fluctuate significantly year-over-year 
based on the total cost of claims, which includes any adjustments to the total liability of the fund due to actuarially-
determined changes in experience. Over the past 10 years, total expenses (excluding actuarial accounting adjustment) have 
been as high as $4.3 million and as low as $1.6 million.
Funding for the Workers' Compensation Insurance Fund comes from collections from all of the operations across all funds 
that include personnel. Departments are charged a percentage of pay for each employee, and the amount of the charge 
depends on the type of employee. Positions that historically have higher workers' compensation experience, such as police 
employees, are charged a higher rate than positions with historically lower experience. Collections from departments are 
set in an effort to ensure adequate funding for this program, including having funds set aside in reserve to cover years 
where claims expenses were unusually high. 
In 2019-20, the fund received a $3.5 million transfer from the General Fund to prevent the fund from going further to a 
negative balance. However, based on the latest actuarial study, the City's workers' compensation liabilities for 2021-22 
were adjusted down by $2 million.  As such, the fund will only need to keep $2 million from the General Fund transfer.  The 
excess $1.5 million will be transferred out to the Comprehensive Liability Fund. 
With the transfer of the City's fire operations to San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire), with the exception 
of former Fire personnel that served in the Bureau of Fire Protection and Life Safety (Bureau), as it is a cost recovery 
program, claims that were incurred while the fire employees were City employees will remain in this fund and as the City's 
responsiblility. While SMC Fire has paid the City for the present value of former Bureau legacy workers' compensation, 
which reflects open claims and claims that have been closed since SMC Fire commencement of operations, as updated 
actuarial studies are performed in subsequent fiscal years, the City will prepare an annual analysis to 1) compare actuarial 
assumptions to the current actuarial study, including the discount rate or cost of healthcare, 2) evaluate new claims if the 
City is assigned proportional responsiblity. The City will then compare the amount of legacy costs paid by SMC Fire (from its 
Bureau) to the City with the update workers' compensation liability and resume collecting additional costs as appropriate.
124
561 of 763

--- page 562 ---
Comprehensive Liability
COMPREHENSIVE 
LIABILITY
 2021-22 
ACTUALS 
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
FORECAST
2025-26 
FORECAST
2026-27 
FORECAST
2027-28 
FORECAST
Beginning Fund Balance
$ 
589 
$ 
(1,517)
$ 
867 
$ 
231 
$ 
(363)
$
(899)
$ 
(1,354)
Revenues
Interfund Charges
$ 
1,610 
$ 
2,237 
$ 
2,793 
$ 
3,473 
$ 
4,322 
$ 
5,384 
$ 
6,710 
Investment/Interest 
Earnings
(14)
28
  32 
  32 
  32 
  32 
  32 
Miscellaneous Revenues
  33 
  -   
  -   
  -   
  -   
  -   
  -   
Total Revenues
$ 
1,629 
$ 
2,265 
$ 
2,825 
$ 
3,505 
$ 
4,354 
$ 
5,416 
$ 
6,742 
Expenses
Personnel
$ 
135 
$
147 
$
142 
$ 
145 
$
148 
$
151 
$
154
Insurance Premiums
  1,400 
  1,784 
  2,430 
  3,038 
  3,798 
  4,748 
  5,935 
Claims
  907 
  150 
  250 
  258 
  266 
  274 
  282 
Attorney's Fees
  312 
  612 
  430 
  443 
  456 
  470 
  484 
Other Costs
  981 
  188 
  209 
  215 
  222 
  228 
  235 
Total Expenses
$ 
3,735 
$ 
2,881 
$ 
3,461 
$ 
4,099 
$ 
4,889 
$ 
5,871 
$ 
7,090 
Transfer In
$ 
- 
$ 
3,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
Ending Fund Balance
$ 
(1,517)
$ 
867 
$ 
231 
$ 
(363)
$
(899)
$ 
(1,354)
$ 
(1,702)
Values are shown in thousands.
The Comprehensive Liability Insurance Fund accounts for the City's general liability program. Expenses in this fund primarily 
consist of insurance premiums, the cost of claims, legal and other professional services, and program administration. 
The 2023-24 budget totals $3.5 million primarily due to insurance premium increases. The City's general liability insurance 
premium went from $0.6 million in 2017-18 to the projected $2.4 million in 2023-24, a 400% increase over six years, 
averaging 25% increase each year. If this trend continues, the insurance premium will reach $5.9 million by 2027-28, 
pushing the total program expenditures to $7 million annually. Even though staff has incorporated a 25% annual increase to 
interfund charges (cost recovery revenues), more is needed to cover the costs. As shown in the five-year forecast, the fund 
is projected to have negative fund balance starting 2024-25, which will grow negative $1.7 million by 2027-28.
The California public entity insurance marketplace has been changing dramatically in recent years, and public agencies 
throughout the state are seeing a significant increase in plaintiff demands and high dollar liability claims. Areas of concern 
include wildfires, dangerous conditions, road design, intersections, sidewalks, and public safety services. As a result, 
insurance premiums are anticipated to increase considerably. However, if the cost increase continues in the current rate, 
the program will no longer be financially sustainable. The City Attorney will discuss the issue with the City Council.
125
562 of 763

--- page 563 ---
177
FIVE-YEAR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Five-Year Capital 
Improvement Program
126
563 of 763

--- page 564 ---
Summary
As part of the Capital Improvement Program (CIP) budget process, departments develop project requests that capture the 
five-year capital project needs. Total project costs are developed, and funding sources are identified where possible. For 
capital projects that have been completed, operating costs are included in the respective operating budgets. New and on-
going capital projects are prioritized and recommended for funding based on a review and analysis by a committee made 
up of the City Manager, Assistant City Manager, Public Works Director, Parks and Recreation Director, and Finance Director. 
Sections 65400, 65401, and 65403 of the California Planning and Land Use Government Code require the City’s governing 
body, planning, or public works commission to review public works projects proposed for the fiscal year to determine 
conformity with the adopted General Plan. The City Council reviews the Capital Improvement Program Budget at their 
meetings in June each year, with the option to hold study sessions if needed. During these meetings, the Council reviews 
the City’s five-year CIP recommendations, which are listed in the schedules that follow this narrative, to determine if the 
proposed capital projects are in conformance with the goals, policies, and actions contained within the General Plan. 
The five-year CIP totals $284.4 million, with $78.4 million for 2023-24. Immediately following this narrative is a list of all the 
capital projects funded in the 2023-28 CIP (“Funded Projects”). In addition, the table below summarizes the five-year CIP by 
physical type of the capital projects.
CAPITAL PROJECTS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
 FIVE-YEAR 
TOTAL 
Bikeway/Pedestrian
$ 
3,089,353 
$ 
2,460,000 
$ 
2,064,950 
$ 
5,190,000 
$ 
1,000,000 
$ 
13,804,303 
Bridges
 (15,140)
 10,580,000 
 2,220,000 
 100,000 
 100,000 
 12,984,860 
Buildings
 6,109,000 
 2,540,000 
 1,335,000 
 2,135,000 
 20,135,000 
 32,254,000 
Miscellaneous
 3,403,971 
 1,063,500 
 265,000 
 -   
 -   
 4,732,471 
Parks
 4,835,000 
 12,590,000 
 9,420,000 
 4,215,000 
 2,215,000 
 33,275,000 
Sanitary Sewer and 
Wastewater Management 
(Clean Water Program)
 41,360,000 
 31,190,000 
 7,790,000 
 25,635,000 
 17,010,000 
 122,985,000 
Storm Drains
 3,150,000 
 1,350,000 
 1,300,000 
 1,300,000 
 1,300,000 
 8,400,000 
Street Lights
 4,973,885 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 4,973,885 
Streets
 7,475,210 
 8,100,000 
 8,250,000 
 8,250,000 
 8,880,000 
 40,955,210 
Traffic
 1,400,747 
 3,970,000 
 1,125,000 
 425,000 
 425,000 
 7,345,747 
Other City Projects
 2,650,000 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 2,650,000 
Total 5-year CIP
$ 
78,432,026 
$ 
73,843,500 
$ 
33,769,950 
$ 
47,250,000 
$ 
51,065,000 
$ 284,360,476 
Of the total $284.4 million, $123.0 million (43% of the total five-year CIP) is for Clean Water Program capital projects, all of 
which are funded by sewer service charges, bond and loan proceeds, and capital payments from the sewer system’s sub-
regional customers and the City of Foster City. More details of this significant infrastructure investment are provided in the 
following section. Street rehabilitation and reconstruction projects total $41.0 million (14% of the total five-year CIP), while 
parks-related projects amount to $33.3 million (12% of the total). 
The CIP can also be categorized based on the function of each project and how its purpose relates to the overall goals of 
the City Council. The following chart illustrates capital projects by function. Of the five-year CIP total, Mandatory-Irreversible, 
Improve Quality of Life, and Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life comprise 66% of the total, each at 22%, 19% are 
categorized as Maintain Current Investment, 12% are categorized as Necessary for Health and Safety, and the remaining 3% 
split amongst the other categories.
127
564 of 763

--- page 565 ---
Summary
FIVE-YEAR CIP BY FUNCTION
$284.4 MILLION
Clean Water Program Capital Projects  
The Sewer Enterprise system consists of the City’s sewer collection system and wastewater treatment plant (WWTP), 
facilities serving the residents and businesses of the City, all of Foster City, the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District 
(“CSCSD”), and portions of the neighboring communities (sub-regional customers) of the Town Hillsborough, City of 
Belmont, and certain unincorporated areas of San Mateo County. The current population in the utility’s service area is 
approximately 150,000 residents. There are approximately 30,500 customer accounts in the City and approximately 11,000 
customer accounts in Foster City and the sub-regional customer communities utilizing the WWTP. 
The Clean Water Program consists of capital improvement projects for the City’s sewer collection system and the 
wastewater treatment plant (WWTP). A total of $123.0 million is planned for the Clean Water Program five-year CIP. Of this 
total, $74.2 million is for sewer collection system improvement projects, $9.5 million is for program management, and $36.6 
million is for WWTP projects.
CLEAN WATER 
PROGRAM (SEWER) 
PROJECTS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
 FIVE-YEAR 
TOTAL 
Sewer - Collection Systems
$ 
26,490,000 
$ 
14,760,000 
$ 
7,790,000 
$ 
22,065,000 
$ 
17,010,000 
$ 
88,115,000 
Sewer - WWTP
 14,870,000 
 16,430,000 
-
3,570,000
-
34,870,000
Total
$ 
41,360,000 
$ 
31,190,000 
$ 
7,790,000 
$ 
25,635,000 
$ 
17,010,000 
$ 122,985,000 
128
565 of 763

--- page 566 ---
Summary
Significant Sewer Infrastructure Needs and the Cease and Desist Order (CDO)
Similar to many wastewater systems in the region, the City’s Sewer Enterprise facilities are aging and in need of significant 
rehabilitation and upgrade. The City’s sewer collection system dates back to the early 1900s, with the majority of sewer 
pipes installed in the 1940s through 1960s. The original structures at the WWTP were constructed in 1937. The City’s 
collection system has challenges with infiltration and inflow through leaky pipes and illegal drain connections. During 
significant rain events, flow into the sewer pipes increases, exceeding the capacity of the sewer collection system and 
WWTP. These conditions result in overflows of diluted and untreated sewage onto streets and storm drains, which 
eventually reaches the City’s local creeks and San Francisco Bay. These events are termed sanitary sewer overflows 
(SSOs). 
Moreover, regulatory requirements for wastewater treatment are continually evolving and becoming more stringent to 
protect water quality in the San Francisco Bay. The San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board (the “Regional 
Board”) regulates water quality in the San Francisco Bay region under the authority of the Federal Clean Water Act (the 
“CWA”) and the State’s Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act. There are several permits or regulatory orders from 
the Regional Board that apply to ownership and operation of a sanitary sewer collection system and WWTP and regulate 
discharges of waste from those facilities. Without these permits, the City’s Sewer utility could not continue to operate. Due 
to past incidents of SSOs into the City’s local creeks and San Francisco Bay, the Regional Board has mandated the City to 
implement measures to reduce and prevent SSO’s through a Cease and Desist Order (CDO) issued in 2009. The National 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit for the WWTP also requires the City to ensure full treatment at the 
WWTP of all effluent and eliminate “blending” practices. 
In December 2014, the City established the Clean Water Program to address the Regional Board’s CDO and comply with 
Wastewater Treatment Plant operation permit requirements. The Clean Water Program is a 10-year, approximately $1 billion, 
comprehensive capital improvement plan to address the needs for both the collection system and the WWTP. These 
improvements are focused on replacing aging infrastructure, providing wet weather capacity assurance, meeting current 
and anticipated future regulatory requirements, and aligning with the City’s sustainability goals. The City’s Sewer Enterprise 
continues to invest in its operating budget for staff and consultant engineering services to execute the Clean Water 
Program improvements. 
The Clean Water Program’s largest capital improvement project is the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion project. The project 
increases capacity, ensures full treatment of effluent, and eliminates blending practices. As of August 2020, all three phases 
of the WWTP Upgrade and Expansion construction contract had been awarded. The first phase is for excavation and site 
preparation, the second phase is to build the foundation, and the third phase is to construct the facilities. The project is 
anticipated to be completed by August 2024. 
The largest collection system capital improvement project is the Basins 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements project, 
which includes the Underground Flow Equalization System (UFES) project. The UFES consists of an underground 5.3 million 
gallon structure that will help eliminate SSOs in San Mateo and comply with the CDO. The special use permit and the 
project environmental impact report were approved in October 2019. The construction contract was awarded in May 2020.
Sewer Capital Project Revenues 
The City is pursuing a number of funding options for the Clean Water Program. These options include federal Water 
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) loan funds, State Revolving Fund (SRF) loan funds, revenue bonds, and 
direct funding from sewer fees. Sewer fees will pay the debt service on these various financing mechanisms. 
The City, through the San Mateo – Foster City Public Financing Authority (Authority) with Foster City/Estero Municipal 
Improvement District (EMID), has received significant funding through SRF and WIFIA loans for the wastewater treatment 
plant upgrade and expansion project. In November 2020, the Authority finalized a WIFIA loan for the WWTP for $277 million 
and in December 2020, the City finalized a second WIFIA loan for its Basins 2 and 3 Collection System Improvement project 
for $85 million. 
129
566 of 763

--- page 567 ---
Summary
For the SRF funding, the Authority submitted an application in 2017 and updated the application in 2019 to reflect the most 
recent design. The SRF loan of $137 million was finalized in early May 2022. 
In May 2019, the first series of revenue bonds were issued for $270 million to provide funding for the projects in progress. 
Additional series of revenue bonds or other financing vehicles may be issued to supplement the federal and state loan 
funds to ensure adequate funding in the Clean Water Program.
FUNDING SOURCE 
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
 FIVE-YEAR 
TOTAL 
Crystal Spring County Sanitation District / 
San Mateo County / Hillsborough
$ 
2,921,648 
$ 
2,228,575 
$ 
2,038,515 
$ 
1,948,998 
$ 
1,948,998 
$ 11,086,734 
Foster City / Estero (Sewer)
 2,844,706 
 3,005,883 
 868,311 
 -   
 -   
 6,718,900 
Sewer (interfund transfer)
 35,593,646 
 25,955,542 
 4,883,174 
 23,686,002 
 15,061,002 
 105,179,366 
Total
$ 41,360,000 
$ 31,190,000 
$ 7,790,000 
$ 25,635,000 
$ 17,010,000 
$22,985,000 
Sewer Capital Projects and Costs
Of the total $123.0 million planned over the next five years, four capital projects are planned for the City’s WWTP totaling 
an estimated $34.9 million. The largest planned WWTP project is $26.6 million for the plant’s on-going flow management 
upgrade and expansion project, followed by $4.5 million for annual major components, and $3.6 million for annual repairs. 
Sewer collection system improvements total an estimated $88.1 million, with eleven different capital projects throughout the 
City. The largest sewer collection system project is $27.6 million for CWP Annual Citywide Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation, 
followed by $16.0 million for Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Upgrades and $15.5 million for Annual Sanitary Sewer 
Rehabilitation. 
Street Rehabilitation and Improvement Capital Projects
A total of $41.0 million in street rehabilitation, reconstruction, and improvement projects are planned for in the five-year 
CIP. Primary funding sources for these projects include Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account Fund ($12.6 million), 
Measure A half-cent sales tax ($8.4 million), General Fund ($5.7 million), Gas Tax ($5.3 million), Measure W half-cent sales 
tax ($4.4 million), Measure S ($4.0 million), Private Contributions ($0.3 million), and Traffic Impact Fees ($0.2 million). 
The City’s Pavement Management Program (PMP) uses available funding to minimize deferred maintenance, reduce the 
failed streets inventory, and maintain the City’s streets with a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) above 70. While the PMP 
focuses on the management of the City’s entire pavement assets, a separate Smooth Streets Program (SSP) was created 
in 2013 to address failed streets. Street segments with a PCI of less than 25 are considered “failed” by common industry 
practice, and generally require expensive, full street reconstruction to restore. Of the 17 miles identified as failed streets and 
five miles identified as at-risk, 11 miles have been restored and two miles are currently in construction. The remaining five 
miles of failed streets and four miles of at-risk streets in the Smooth Streets Program are currently scheduled for completion 
by 2026. Smooth Streets projects that are identified for the next five years are programmed with a total of $7.1 million. 
City Building and Facilities Improvement Capital Projects
A total of $32.3 million is planned for various building facilities improvements and new construction. $18 million of this total 
is budgeted for the construction of a new central park parking garage, $5.5 million of this total is budgeted for Parking 
Facility Structural Repairs and $2.0 million is budgeted for miscellaneous corporation yard improvements. 
130
567 of 763

--- page 568 ---
Summary
Bridge Maintenance and Improvement Capital Projects
Of the total $13.0 million planned over the next five years for bridge-related capital improvements, the Bermuda Drive 
Bridge Replacement project totals $11.0 million, $3.3 million for citywide bridge maintenance, and $1.3 million transferring 
out to a traffic improvement project . The Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement project is principally funded by a $6.6 million 
grant, $1.8 million from the General Fund, and $1.2 million from Measure W.
Parks and Recreation Facilities Renovation & Rehabilitation Capital Projects
A total of $33.3 million in parks and recreation capital improvement projects are planned for the next five years. Of the total 
planned, the largest parks project is $10 million for Central Park, consistent with the capital improvements identified in the 
approved and updated Central Park Master Plan. $9.0 million is also programmed to upgrade citywide park play areas. 
Of the $33.3 million total of planned projects, the majority ($27.7 million) are funded from parks and recreation related taxes 
and fees. The City has received significant parks and recreation related taxes and fees from the development projects 
currently underway in the City, which has allowed for the capacity to program the large projects in the five-year CIP. 
Stormwater / Flood Control Renovation & Rehabilitation Capital Projects
A total of $8.4 million is planned for storm drainage and flood control projects for the next five years. Projects in this 
category include $3.8 million for small trash capture devices at various locations and $1.5 million for the Columbia Drive and 
Crystal Springs Road Storm Drain Channel over the five-year period. 
Bikeway / Pedestrian Walkway Capital Projects
A total of $13.8 million is planned for bikeway and pedestrian walkway projects. Of the total, $5.8 million is planned for 
the Highway 101/Highway 92 multi-modal bike lane, $2.1 million is budgeted for the Bike San Mateo Program, $1.7 million 
is budgeted for Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funded street and sidewalk repair, $1.7 million is planned 
for Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor, $1.1 million is budgeted for the Downtown Grade Separation Study and the 
remaining $1.4 million is planned for other high priority bicycle projects. The City’s portion of the citywide sidewalk repair 
program is funded by the General Fund and through contributions from homeowners.
Traffic Capital Projects
A total of $7.3 million is planned for 10 different traffic-related projects throughout the City. Of this amount, the larger 
projects include $2.4 million for a retaining wall at Gramercy Drive, $1.4 million for the reconstruction of the intersection at 
Norfolk Street and Fashion Island Boulevard and $1.0 million each for the Neighborhood Traffic Management project and 
the Railroad Avenue Wall Enhancement project. 
The primary funding sources for these traffic-related projects are General Fund ($2.4 million), Measure A ($2.1 million), 
Traffic Impact Fee ($1.9 million), and Measure S ($1.0 million).
Street Lights Capital Projects
The project in this category removes approximately 450 existing high voltage streetlights with lower voltage, LED 
streetlights. The project will be implemented in phases and is expected to be completed in 2026. This project is funded by 
$5.0 million from the General Fund.
Other City Capital Projects
Various other citywide capital projects are planned totaling $7.4 million over the next five years. Of this amount, the largest 
project is $2.7 million for the second phase of 25th Avenue Undergrounding. This project is funded by contributions from 
other agencies. In addition, $1.6 for upgrades to Police radio consoles and infrastructure and $1.0 million is budgeted for art 
in public places.
131
568 of 763

--- page 569 ---
Summary
CIP Funding
All the projects listed in the following “Funded Projects” sub-section have identified sources of funding. The “Project 
Charters” sub-sections give a brief description and overview of each funded and priority unfunded projects. The sub-
section “Projects by Funding Source” lists all the funding categories for the projects in the five-year CIP. 
The City also has several capital projects that have no identified source of funding. The “Unfunded Projects” sub-section 
lists all the identified projects that have no funding allocated and their estimated costs for the next five years. The total cost 
for these unfunded capital projects is estimated to be $231.6 million. The size and scope of the projects varies and includes 
major construction projects, such as $40 million for the Bay Meadows Community Park, $40 million for Shoreline Parks, and 
$26 million for a new corporation yard facility, $24 million for central park, and other various smaller renovation projects 
such as parking lot repair and various facility improvements.
132
569 of 763

--- page 570 ---
Funded Projects
PROJECT #
PROJECT NAME
 2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
130004 PEDESTRIAN MALL CONSTRUCTION
600,000
$          
210001 PEG PROJECT (PUBLIC EDUCATION GOVERNMENT CATV ACCESS)
200,000
            
310330 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES
990,000
            
310521 MINOR HOME REPAIR
110,000
            
313134 EMERGENCY TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE
18,971
              
460037 EL CAMINO REAL AT HIGHWAY 92 LANDSCAPRE IMPROVEMENT
200,000
            
460040 HIGH VOLTAGE STREET LIGHT CONVERSION
4,950,000
         
460053 PAINT EXTERIOR 2ND AVENUE / EL CAMINO REAL GARAGE
-
                    
460054 PAINT EXTERIOR MAIN STREET GARAGE
-
                    
460058 ADA ENTRY COMPLIANCE - BERESFORD
250,000
            
461008 CITYWIDE PAID PARKING EVALUATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
-
                    
461214 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT (CDBG) PROJECTS
500,000
            
462004 CITYWIDE BRIDGE MAINTENANCE
455,000
            
462202 RAIL CORRIDOR GRADE SEPARATION
(1,300,140)
        
462205 TRAIN QUIET ZONE
25,000
              
462226 NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
-
                    
462250 BERMUDA DRIVE BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
830,000
            
462337 19TH AVENUE TWO-WAY STREET CONVERSTION
747
                   
462897 PARK CITYWIDE PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT - PUBLIC WORKS
15,000
              
463004 CITYWIDE STREET LIGHTS
23,885
              
463338 NORFOLK STREET AND FASHION ISLAND BOULEVARD INTERSECTION RECONSTRUCTION
-
                    
465162 CITYWIDE BICYCLE PARKING
-
                    
465333 CITYWIDE TRAFFIC SIGNAL RETIMING
-
                    
465432 EL CAMINO REAL LEFT-TURN POCKET - TILTON AVENUE AND BALDWIN AVENUE
-
                    
466600 CITYWIDE TRAFFIC CALMING
150,000
            
466607 CITYWIDE SIGN INVENTORY AND REPLACEMENT
-
                    
467001 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE I
12,210
              
467008 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE II
363,000
            
467009 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE III
3,400,000
         
467773 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE III
3,500,000
         
468007 COLUMBIA DRIVE AND CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD STORM DRAIN CHANNEL
1,350,000
         
468301 BAYFRONT LEVEE IMPROVEMENT SOUTH OF SAN MATEO CREEK
400,000
            
469031 ADA COMPLIANCE AND TRANSITION PLANNING
35,000
              
469916 COLLECTION SYSTEM SCADA
160,000
            
469933 ROOT FOAMING
400,000
            
469988 EAST SAN MATEO LIFT STATION
11,675,000
       
469997 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
-
                    
46C001 SMALL TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES
750,000
            
46C002 CITYWIDE SOIL STABILIZATION PROGRAM
150,000
            
46C003 GREEN FLEET CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE
100,000
            
46C004 DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS
260,000
            
46C005 ADAPTATION PLAN
100,000
            
46f001 DOWNTOWN PARKING GARAGE PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
560,000
            
46f003 CORPORATION YARD MISCELLANEOUS IMPROVEMENTS
-
                    
46F005 EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR PAINTING - CENTRAL PARK GARAGE
-
                    
46F015 PARK RESTROOM PHASE V
750,000
            
46f016 MAIN LIBRARY PAINTING
400,000
            
46F017 OFFICES - ACOUSTIC ATTENUATION - LIBRARY
(425,000)
           
46F018 PANIC BUTTONS AT COUNTERS AND OFFICES
75,000
              
133
570 of 763

--- page 571 ---
Funded Projects
 2024-25 PLAN  2025-26 PLAN  2026-27 PLAN  2027-28 PLAN 
 FIVE-YEAR 
TOTAL 
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
-
$                  
600,000
$            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
200,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
990,000
              
110,000
            
110,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
330,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
18,971
                
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
200,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
4,950,000
           
275,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
275,000
              
450,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
450,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
250,000
              
66,500
              
155,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
221,500
              
300,000
            
300,000
            
300,000
            
300,000
            
1,700,000
           
400,000
            
2,220,000
         
100,000
            
100,000
            
3,275,000
           
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
(1,300,140)
          
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
25,000
                
250,000
            
250,000
            
250,000
            
250,000
            
1,000,000
           
10,180,000
       
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
11,010,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
747
                     
15,000
              
15,000
              
15,000
              
15,000
              
75,000
                
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
23,885
                
700,000
            
700,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
1,400,000
           
10,000
              
10,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
20,000
                
25,000
              
25,000
              
25,000
              
25,000
              
100,000
              
45,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
45,000
                
150,000
            
150,000
            
150,000
            
150,000
            
750,000
              
-
                    
150,000
            
150,000
            
150,000
            
450,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
12,210
                
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
363,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
3,400,000
           
3,600,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
7,100,000
           
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
1,350,000
           
400,000
            
400,000
            
400,000
            
400,000
            
2,000,000
           
35,000
              
35,000
              
35,000
              
35,000
              
175,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
160,000
              
400,000
            
400,000
            
400,000
            
400,000
            
2,000,000
           
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
11,675,000
         
4,500,000
         
8,100,000
         
8,100,000
         
8,730,000
         
29,430,000
         
750,000
            
750,000
            
750,000
            
750,000
            
3,750,000
           
150,000
            
150,000
            
150,000
            
150,000
            
750,000
              
200,000
            
200,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
500,000
              
75,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
335,000
              
50,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
150,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
560,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
1,000,000
         
1,000,000
         
2,000,000
           
150,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
150,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
750,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
400,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
(425,000)
             
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
75,000
                
134
571 of 763

--- page 572 ---
Funded Projects
PROJECT #
PROJECT NAME
 2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET 
46F021 OFFICES - ACOUSTIC ATTENUATION - CITY HALL
16,000
              
46F022 TRANSACTION COUNTER SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS
-
                    
46F023 SHOREVIEW BASKETBALL COURT RESURFACING
-
                    
46F025 PARKING FACILITY STRUCTURAL REPAIRS
3,200,000
         
46F026 NEW CENTRAL PARK PARKING GARAGE
-
                    
46F027 POLICE DEPARTMENT ROOF DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
1,000,000
         
46F028 LAKESHORE RECREATION CENTER ADA ENTRY
50,000
              
46F030 CITYWIDE FACILITIES CONDITION ASSESSMENT
100,000
            
46F032 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - UPS REPLACEMENT
400,000
            
46F033 BERESFORD BASKETBALL COURT RESURFACE
-
                    
46F034 LOS PRADOS COURT LIGHTING IMPROVEMENTS
120,000
            
46F035 ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION - CENTRAL GARAGE
500,000
            
46F036 KING POOL ASSESSMENT AND IMPROVEMENTS
100,000
            
46F037 JOINVILLE POOL ASSESSMENT AND IMPROVEMENTS
100,000
            
46M001 RAILROAD CROSSING IMPROVEMENTS
500,000
            
46m003 TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT PEDESTRIAN ACCESS STUDY
9,353
                
46r001 HILLSDALE BOULEVARD AND ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS SIGNAL
-
                    
46r008 RAILROAD AVENUE WALL ENHANCEMENT
1,000,000
         
46r009 GRAMMERCY DRIVE RETAINING WALL
50,000
              
46r010 25TH AVENUE UNDERGROUNDING - PHASE II
2,650,000
         
46R016 101/92 MULTI-MODAL (CLASS IV BIKE LANE)
255,000
            
46R017 DOWNTOWN GRADE SEPARATION STUDY
1,100,000
         
46R018 HILLSDALE BIKE/PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE FEASIBILITY STUDY
165,000
            
46R019 CITYWIDE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL PROGRAM
140,000
            
46R020 DOWNTOWN TRAFFIC SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
100,000
            
46R021 DOWNTOWN CIRCULATION STUDY
200,000
            
46R022 DELAWARE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL CORRIDOR
260,000
            
46R023 TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE UPDATE
-
                    
46R024 BIKE SAN MATEO PROGRAM
-
                    
46s003 BASINS 2 AND 3 COLLECTION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS
855,000
            
46s090 CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) SEWER FLOW MONITORING AND REPORTING
90,000
              
46s091 CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) ANNUAL CITYWIDE SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION
11,700,000
       
46s093 CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION (CCTV) INSPECTION PROGR
770,000
            
46S101 TOTAL MAXIMUM DAILY LOAD (TMDL) ENHANCED PLANNING & INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVE
1,000,000
         
46S190 SANITARY SEWER FLOW MONITORING & REPORTING
-
                    
46S191 ANNUAL SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION
-
                    
46S192 SANITARY SEWER PUMP STATION UPGRADES
-
                    
46S193 SANITARY SEWER CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION (CCTV) INSPECTION PROGRAM
-
                    
46T003 WWTP AND FLOW MANAGEMENT UPGRADE AND EXPANSION
11,210,000
       
46T090 CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) WWTP ANNUAL MAJOR COMPONENTS
3,500,000
         
46T190 WWTP ANNUAL REPAIRS
-
                    
46w002 STORMWATER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
400,000
            
512000 EXTERNAL RADIO INFRASTRUCTURE
900,000
            
513000 POLICE RADIOS - HAND HELD AND MOBILE
-
                    
610008 TREE PLANTING - PARKS DIVISION
400,000
            
610014 CITYWIDE PARK FENCING AND STRUCTURES
-
                    
610017 CITYWIDE PARK PLAY AREA UPGRADE
-
                    
610023 SPORTS FIELDS CONVERSION - SYNTHETIC TURF
500,000
            
610027 CENTRAL PARK
2,000,000
         
610055 SYNTHETIC FIELD REPLACEMENT
500,000
            
610060 PARKS IRRIGATION CONTROLLER UPGRADE
150,000
            
618278 GOLF COURSE - WELL DRILLING
200,000
            
665100 MARINA LIBRARY STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS
208,000
            
Total Recommended Project Budgets
78,432,026
$     
135
572 of 763

--- page 573 ---
Funded Projects
 2024-25 PLAN  2025-26 PLAN  2026-27 PLAN  2027-28 PLAN 
 FIVE-YEAR 
TOTAL 
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
16,000
                
80,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
80,000
                
450,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
450,000
              
1,000,000
         
1,000,000
         
1,000,000
         
1,000,000
         
7,200,000
           
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
18,000,000
       
18,000,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
1,000,000
           
400,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
450,000
              
100,000
            
100,000
            
100,000
            
100,000
            
500,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
400,000
              
-
                    
180,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
180,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
120,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
500,000
              
3,000,000
         
3,000,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
6,100,000
           
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
100,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
500,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
9,353
                  
400,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
400,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
1,000,000
           
2,300,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
2,350,000
           
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
2,650,000
           
610,000
            
914,950
            
4,050,000
         
-
                    
5,829,950
           
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
1,100,000
           
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
165,000
              
140,000
            
140,000
            
140,000
            
-
                    
560,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
100,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
200,000
              
1,400,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
1,660,000
           
100,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
100,000
              
-
                    
700,000
            
700,000
            
700,000
            
2,100,000
           
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
855,000
              
95,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
185,000
              
11,000,000
       
4,890,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
27,590,000
         
765,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
1,535,000
           
2,500,000
         
2,500,000
         
2,500,000
         
2,500,000
         
11,000,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
125,000
            
125,000
            
250,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
5,120,000
         
10,350,000
       
15,470,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
13,020,000
       
3,000,000
         
16,020,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
900,000
            
635,000
            
1,535,000
           
15,400,000
       
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
26,610,000
         
1,030,000
         
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
4,530,000
           
-
                    
-
                    
3,570,000
         
-
                    
3,570,000
           
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
400,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
900,000
              
662,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
662,000
              
200,000
            
200,000
            
200,000
            
200,000
            
1,200,000
           
400,000
            
400,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
800,000
              
3,375,000
         
1,625,000
         
2,000,000
         
2,000,000
         
9,000,000
           
1,000,000
         
500,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
2,000,000
           
3,000,000
         
3,000,000
         
2,000,000
         
-
                    
10,000,000
         
1,000,000
         
500,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
2,000,000
           
150,000
            
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
300,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
200,000
              
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
-
                    
208,000
              
73,843,500
$     
33,769,950
$     
47,250,000
$     
51,065,000
$     
284,360,476
$     
136
573 of 763

--- page 574 ---
PEDESTRIAN MALL CONSTRUCTION
Project No.
130004
Purpose
Construct improvements to the pedestrian malls 
including permanent barricades, street furnishings, 
ADA parking spaces, and traffic signal adjustments.
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Kathy Kleinbaum
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Design and implement capital improvements for 
permanent street closure.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
600,000 
$ 
600,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 1,200,000
TOTAL
$ 
600,000 
$ 
600,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 1,200,000
137
574 of 763

--- page 575 ---
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES
Project No.
310330
Purpose
This project includes approval, acquisition, 
installation, improvement, and maintenance of 
artwork to be displayed in the City.  This project 
provides approval of art for private development; 
solicits, acquires, and maintains  art for City owned 
property; prepares designated locations for art 
installations; administers the Arts In Public Places 
program.
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Mandatory - Irreversible
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Private Contributions
$ 
687,566 
$ 
200,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
887,566
TOTAL
$ 
687,566 
$ 
200,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
887,566
138
575 of 763

--- page 576 ---
MINOR HOME REPAIR
Project No.
310521
Purpose
Provide funds to providers to perform minor home 
repairs to lower income households Citywide free 
of charge.
Project Type
Miscellaneous
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Grants
$ 
1,613,803 
$ 
110,000
$ 
110,000
$ 
110,000
$
-
$
-
$ 1,943,803
TOTAL
$ 
1,613,803 
$ 
110,000
$ 
110,000
$ 
110,000
$
-
$
-
$ 1,943,803
139
576 of 763

--- page 577 ---
EL CAMINO REAL AT HIGHWAY 92 LANDSCAPE IMPROVEMENT
Project No.
460037
Purpose
The project consists of the installation of permanent 
landscaping at the newly reconstructed El Camino 
Real (State Route 82) / State Route 92 interchange.
Project Type
Streets
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Tina Pham
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Other Agencies
$ 
1,100,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
1,100,000 
Traffic Impact Fee
 
922,000 
 
200,000
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
1,122,000 
TOTAL
$ 
2,022,000 
$ 
200,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 2,222,000 
140
577 of 763

--- page 578 ---
HIGH VOLTAGE STREET LIGHT CONVERSION
Project No.
460040
Purpose
The program involves the replacement of existing 
high voltage streetlighting with lower voltage circuits 
and change from high pressure sodium vapor to 
LED fixtures. The program involves approximately 
21 miles of trenching and replacement of 450+ 
streetlights. 
Project Type
Street Lights
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Mike Kato
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Replace all remaining high voltage circuits to 
improve safety and reliability of the street light 
system.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
8,280,000 
$ 4,950,000
$
-
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 13,230,000  
TOTAL
$ 
8,280,000 
$ 4,950,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 13,230,000 
141
578 of 763

--- page 579 ---
PAINT EXTERIOR 2ND AVENUE / EL CAMINO REAL GARAGE
Project No.
460053
Purpose
The project involves painting the garage to preserve 
the existing facility.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
275,000
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
275,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
275,000
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
275,000
142
579 of 763

--- page 580 ---
PAINT - MAIN STREET GARAGE
Project No.
460054
Purpose
The project involves painting the garage to preserve 
the existing facility.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
450,000
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
450,000
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
450,000
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
450,000
Project Charters
Funded
143
580 of 763

--- page 581 ---
ADA ENTRY COMPLIANCE - BERESFORD
Project No.
460058
Purpose
Design and install a fully compliant ADA access 
route from the parking lot to the front door of the 
Beresford Recreation Center. 
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
330,000 
$ 
250,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
580,000 
TOTAL
$ 
330,000 
$ 
250,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
580,000 
144
581 of 763

--- page 582 ---
CITYWIDE PAID PARKING EVALUATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project No.
461008
Purpose
This project will evaluate the paid parking program 
in the entire City. The project will collect data and 
analyze the parking data and recommend parking 
program options for implementation. 
Once the evaluation is complete, capital 
improvement projects will be identified and 
budgeted.
Project Type
Miscellaneous
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
125,000 
$ 
-
$ 
66,500
$ 
155,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
346,500 
TOTAL
$ 
125,000 
$ 
-
$ 
66,500
$ 
155,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
346,500 
145
582 of 763

--- page 583 ---
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT (CDBG) PROJECTS
Project No.
461214
Purpose
This project utilizes available Community 
Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds to improve 
pedestrian, bicycle, and paving improvements 
within the CDBG area. The location and scope 
of work changes annually. In order to be eligible 
to use CDBG funds, the project location must 
be within designated CDBG areas, determined 
using household income data provided by the 
United States Department of Housing and Urban 
Development Department.
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Elton Yee
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Grants
$ 
2,995,000 
$ 
250,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 3,245,000 
TOTAL
$ 
2,995,000 
$ 
250,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 3,245,000 
146
583 of 763

--- page 584 ---
CITYWIDE BRIDGE MAINTENANCE
Project No.
462004
Purpose
Maintain City-owned bridges in a structurally safe 
and serviceable condition.
Project Type
Bridges
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Tina Pham
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure A
$ 
1,302,600 
$ 
455,000 
$ 
400,000 
$ 2,220,000 
$ 
100,000 
$ 
100,000 
$ 4,577,600 
TOTAL
$ 
1,302,600 
$ 
455,000 
$ 
400,000 
$ 2,220,000 
$ 
100,000 
$ 
100,000 
$ 4,577,600 
147
584 of 763

--- page 585 ---
TRAIN QUIET ZONE
Project No.
462205
Purpose
The effort is focused on the design and 
implementation of improvements at at-grade railroad 
crossings to establish a "Quiet Zone" to restrict the 
sounding of train horns in the rail corridor. 
Project Type
Miscellaneous
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Tina Pham
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise 
at City at grade crossings.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
485,000 
$ 
25,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
510,000 
Grants
 
10,478 
 
-
 
-
 
- 
 
-
 
-
 
10,478
TOTAL
$ 
495,478 
$ 
25,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
520,478 
148
585 of 763

--- page 586 ---
NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
Project No.
462226
Purpose
This project will implement the recommendations 
of the neighborhood Traffic Action Plans. The 
project will evaluate vehicle, bike, and pedestrian 
counts, studies and warrants, origin-destination 
studies, traffic calming devices, and traffic signal 
modifications and synchronization. Fourteen 
neighborhood Traffic Action Plans have been 
completed to date.
Project Type
Traffic
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Sang Cho
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure S
$ 
1,750,000 
$ 
-
$ 
250,000
$ 
250,000
$ 
250,000
$ 
250,000
$ 2,750,000 
TOTAL
$ 
1,750,000 
$ 
-
$ 
250,000
$ 
250,000
$ 
250,000
$ 
250,000
$ 2,750,000 
149
586 of 763

--- page 587 ---
BERMUDA DRIVE BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
Project No.
462250
Purpose
Replace existing bridge in accordance with 
recommendations in Caltrans bridge inspection 
report and upgrade to current standards.
Project Type
Bridges
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Leo Chow
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Gas Tax
$ 
732,000 
$ 
420,000 
$ 
520,000 
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 1,672,000 
General Fund
 
-
 
-
 
1,750,000
 
-
 
-
 
 
-
 
1,750,000
Grants
 
88,500
 
-
 
6,550,000
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
6,638,500 
Measure A
 
876,014
 
160,000 
 
160,000 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
1,196,014 
Measure S
 
-
 
250,000
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
250,000
Measure W
 
-
 
-
 
1,200,000
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
1,200,000
TOTAL
$ 
1,696,514 
$ 
830,000
$ 10,180,000
$ 
-
$
-
$
-
$ 12,706,514 
150
587 of 763

--- page 588 ---
PARK CITYWIDE PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT - PUBLIC WORKS
Project No.
462897
Purpose
The playground equipment at various City parks 
require routine maintenance and/or replacement.  
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Major Service Equipment Replacement
Project Manager
Marie Silva
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
375,000 
$ 
15,000 
$ 
15,000 
$ 
15,000 
$ 
15,000 
$ 
15,000 
$ 
450,000 
TOTAL
$ 
375,000 
$ 
15,000 
$ 
15,000 
$ 
15,000 
$ 
15,000 
$ 
15,000 
$ 
450,000 
151
588 of 763

--- page 589 ---
NORFOLK STREET AND FASHION ISLAND BOULEVARD INTERSECTION RECONSTRUCTION
Project No.
463338
Purpose
Study to reconstruct median improvements for 
eastbound Fashion Island Boulevard approaching 
Norfolk Street. These improvements may include 
reconfiguration of the Norfolk Street/Fashion 
Island Boulevard intersection to accommodate 
multiple lanes, as well as reconfigurations of the 
lanes across the bridge. These improvements 
are being considered as a means to address the 
severe congestion along 19th Avenue/Fashion 
Island Boulevard. The 19th Avenue/Fashion Island 
Boulevard study will be funded with both this project 
and the 19th Avenue Two Way Street Conversion 
project.
Project Type
Traffic
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Mike Kato
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Improve traffic flow on 19th Avenue and Fashion 
Island Boulevard from Grant to Mariners Island 
Boulevard.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure A
$ 
230,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
700,000
$ 
700,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 1,630,000 
Private Contributions
 
250,000 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
250,000
TOTAL
$ 
480,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
700,000
$ 
700,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 1,880,000 
152
589 of 763

--- page 590 ---
CITYWIDE BICYCLE PARKING
Project No.
465162
Purpose
This project will continue the implementation of 
bicycle parking as recommended in the 2020 
Bicycle Master Plan. The purpose of the project is 
to increase bicycle parking facilities throughout the 
City.
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Master Plan
2020 Bicycle Master Plan 
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Gas Tax
$ 
37,508 
$ 
- 
$ 
10,000
$ 
10,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
57,508 
Grants
 
58,740 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
58,740
TOTAL
$ 
96,248 
$ 
- 
$ 
10,000
$ 
10,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
116,248 
153
590 of 763

--- page 591 ---
CITYWIDE TRAFFIC SIGNAL RETIMING
Project No.
465333
Purpose
This project will be used for various traffic signal 
timing projects throughout the city. Signal timing is a 
low-cost way to reduce congestion. 
Project Type
Traffic
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Bethany Lopez
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure A
$ 
100,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
25,000
$ 
25,000
$ 
25,000
$ 
25,000
$ 
200,000 
TOTAL
$ 
100,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
25,000
$ 
25,000
$ 
25,000
$ 
25,000
$ 
200,000 
154
591 of 763

--- page 592 ---
EL CAMINO REAL LEFT-TURN POCKET - TILTON AVENUE AND BALDWIN AVENUE
Project No.
465432
Purpose
Evaluate whether left-turn pockets for the 
northbound and southbound directions at El Camino 
Real/Tilton Avenue and El Camino Real/Baldwin 
Avenue are feasible and recommended. Otherwise, 
implement left-turn restrictions at both intersections. 
Both intersections have been identified as 
bottlenecks along the El Camino Real corridor 
due to the lack of left-turn pockets, which causes 
significant delay to the entire corridor. Travel time 
and delay are both expected to be reduced with the 
installation or removal.
Project Type
Traffic
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Mike Kato
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure A
$ 
70,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
45,000
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
115,000 
TOTAL
$ 
70,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
45,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
115,000 
155
592 of 763

--- page 593 ---
CITYWIDE TRAFFIC CALMING
Project No.
466600
Purpose
This project will develop and implement the 
Citywide traffic calming program known as the 
Neighborhood Traffic Management Program (NTMP). 
This includes staff time to process traffic-related 
requests and solutions, such as speed cushions, 
rectangular rapid flashing beacons, and driver 
feedback signs. 
Project Type
Traffic
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Bethany Lopez
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Grants
$ 
72,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
72,000
Traffic Impact Fee
 
2,093,911 
 
150,000 
 
150,000 
 
150,000 
 
150,000 
 
150,000 
 
2,843,911 
TOTAL
$ 
2,165,911 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
2,915,911 
156
593 of 763

--- page 594 ---
CITYWIDE SIGN INVENTORY AND REPLACEMENT
Project No.
466607
Purpose
This project will conduct an inventory of all city signs 
and determine their retroreflectivity levels. This 
data will be used to establish a sign replacement 
program for all out of compliance signage. This 
program was required to be established by June 13, 
2014, in compliance with Caltrans' California Manual 
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD). 
Non-compliance of this requirement could lead to 
federal aid requests being denied.
Project Type
Traffic
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Bethany Lopez
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure A
$ 
460,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
910,000 
TOTAL
$ 
460,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
910,000 
157
594 of 763

--- page 595 ---
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE III
Project No.
467009
Purpose
This project account funds maintenance and 
rehabilitation projects in the City's Pavement 
Management Program to maintain the street 
pavement infrastructure. The annual program 
budget provides funding for projects within the 
planning horizon. 
Project Type
Streets
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Gas Tax
$ 
450,000 
$ 
100,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
550,000 
General Fund
 
-
 
1,300,000 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
1,300,000 
Measure A
 
450,000 
 
2,000,000 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
2,450,000 
TOTAL
$ 
900,000 
$ 3,400,000
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 4,300,000 
158
595 of 763

--- page 596 ---
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE III
Project No.
467773
Purpose
This project is part of the Smooth Streets Program 
to reconstruct failed streets. Annual program budget 
provides funding for projects within the planning 
horizon. 
Project Type
Streets
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Reconstruct all failed streets in San Mateo by 2026.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure S
$ 
1,600,000 
$ 
800,000 
$ 
800,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 3,200,000 
Measure W
 
1,300,000 
 
 
700,000
 
700,000
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
2,700,000 
RMRA
 
2,000,000 
 
2,000,000
 
2,100,000
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
6,100,000 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
 
1,650,000 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
1,650,000 
TOTAL
$ 
6,550,000 
$ 3,500,000
$ 3,600,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 13,650,000 
159
596 of 763

--- page 597 ---
COLUMBIA DRIVE AND CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD STORM DRAIN CHANNEL
Project No.
468007
Purpose
Manage storm water that conveys along the open 
drainage ditch located in the public easement that 
traverses from Columbia Drive to Crystal Springs 
Road. 
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Elton Yee
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
830,000 
$ 1,350,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 2,180,000 
Measure S
 
1,250,000 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
1,250,000 
TOTAL
$ 
2,080,000 
$   1,350,000 
$ 
- 
$ 
-
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 3,430,000 
160
597 of 763

--- page 598 ---
ADA COMPLIANCE AND TRANSITION PLANNING
Project No.
469031
Purpose
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 
Compliance and Transition Plan involves identifying 
improvements needed to City facilities and public 
rights-of-way in order to comply with current ADA 
standards. Needed improvements will be prioritized 
based on a variety of factors, including but not 
limited to the volume and type of use, path of 
access, and the severity of the issue.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Tina Pham
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
329,900 
$ 
35,000 
$ 
35,000 
$ 
35,000 
$ 
35,000 
$ 
35,000 
$ 
504,900 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
 
100,000 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
100,000 
TOTAL
$ 
429,900 
$ 
35,000
$ 
35,000
$ 
35,000
$ 
35,000
$ 
35,000
$ 
604,900 
161
598 of 763

--- page 599 ---
COLLECTION SYSTEM SCADA
Project No.
469916
Purpose
Needed to provide control and data management 
of collection system components and coordination 
with the wastewater treatment plant. The project 
includes a master plan to develop standards for the 
collection system control system. The standards 
will be implemented in conjunction with collection 
system capital improvement projects. 
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Deryk Daquigan
Master Plan
Clean Water Program (2014)
Council Priority
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$ 
1,818,591 
$ 
160,000
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
1,978,591 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
 
104,972 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
104,972 
TOTAL
$ 
1,923,563 
$ 
160,000
$ 
- 
$ 
-
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 2,083,563 
162
599 of 763

--- page 600 ---
ROOT FOAMING
Project No.
469933
Purpose
This project performs the annual root foaming 
efforts identified in the City’s Sanitary Sewer 
Management Plan (SSMP).  Root foaming is 
performed in sewer lines in areas with historic root 
intrusion.  Approximately 275,000 feet of sewer 
lines are treated annually. 
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Laura Webb
Master Plan
Clean Water Program (2014)
Council Priority
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$ 
3,216,660 
$ 
400,000 
$ 
400,000 
$ 
400,000 
$ 
400,000 
$ 
400,000 
$ 5,216,660 
Taxes, Fees & Charges
 
1,031,339 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
1,031,339 
TOTAL
$ 
4,248,000 
$ 
400,000
$ 
400,000
$ 
400,000
$ 
400,000
$ 
400,000
$ 6,248,000 
163
600 of 763

--- page 601 ---
EAST SAN MATEO LIFT STATION
Project No.
469988
Purpose
Needed to maintain reliability of pump stations 
transferring flow from sub-basins to the wastewater 
treatment plant. The project includes wet well rehab, 
pump replacement/rehab, and/or upgrades to 
ancillary equipment and components. 
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Tom Williams
Master Plan
Clean Water Program (2014)
Council Priority
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$ 
12,317,421 
$ 11,675,000
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 23,992,421 
TOTAL
$ 
12,317,421 
$ 11,675,000
$ 
- 
$ 
-
$ 
- 
$ 
- 
$ 23,992,421 
164
601 of 763

--- page 602 ---
CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Project No.
469997
Purpose
This project account funds maintenance and 
rehabilitation projects in the City's Pavement 
Management Program to maintain the street 
pavement infrastructure. The annual program 
budget provides funding for projects within the 
planning horizon. 
Project Type
Streets
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Gas Tax
$ 
-
$ 
- 
 $ 1,000,000
$  1,400,000
$ 1,400,000
$ 1,400,000
$ 5,200,000 
General Fund
 
-
 
-
 
1,800,000
 
900,000
 
200,000
 
830,000
 
3,730,000 
Measure A
 
-
 
-
 
1,300,000
 
1,300,000
 
2,000,000
 
2,000,000
 
6,600,000 
Measure S
 
- 
 
-
 
-
 
800,000
 
800,000
 
800,000
 
2,400,000 
Measure W
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
1,000,000
 
1,000,000
 
1,000,000
 
3,000,000 
RMRA
 
- 
 
-
 
400,000
 
2,700,000
 
2,700,000
 
2,700,000
 
8,500,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 4,500,000
$ 8,100,000
$ 8,100,000
$ 8,730,000
$29,430,000 
165
602 of 763

--- page 603 ---
SMALL TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES
Project No.
46C001
Purpose
This program will install small trash capture devices 
at various locations throughout the City, and is 
identified as high priority toward meeting City trash 
reduction requirements. Annual budget provides 
funding for individual projects within the planning 
horizon. 
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Elton Yee
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
RMRA
$ 
1,650,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 1,650,000
Taxes, Fees, and Charges
 
-
 
 
750,000 
 
 
750,000 
 
750,000 
 
750,000 
 
750,000 
 
3,750,000 
TOTAL
$ 
1,650,000 
$ 
750,000 
$ 
750,000 
$ 
750,000 
$ 
750,000 
$ 
750,000 
$ 5,400,000 
166
603 of 763

--- page 604 ---
CITYWIDE SOIL STABILIZATION PROGRAM
Project No.
46C002
Purpose
This project includes the design and implemtation of 
repairs required to address Citywide slope/landslide 
problems, creek bank and other geotechnical 
problems due to erosion, storm damages, poor soils, 
etc.
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Stephanie Piñon
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
750,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$ 
750,000 
167
604 of 763

--- page 605 ---
GREEN FLEET CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project No.
46C003
Purpose
This project is for the planning, design, and 
implementation of infrastructure improvements 
for charging stations, solar panel systems, battery 
storage and other clean energy improvements to 
facilitate green fleet transitions. 
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Mandatory - Irreversible
Project Manager
Sydney Chow
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Implement a Green Fleet by 2030.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
100,000 
$ 
200,000 
$ 
200,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
500,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
100,000 
$ 
200,000 
$ 
200,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
500,000 
168
605 of 763

--- page 606 ---
DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS
Project No.
46C004
Purpose
The focus of the project is to update existing 
standard drawings, develop new necessary 
drawings, standard specifications, design guidelines 
and update the muncipal code as needed. 
Project Type
Miscellaneous
Project Category
Research and Development
Project Manager
Tina Pham
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Taxes, Fees, and Charges
$ 
-
$ 
260,000 
$ 
75,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
335,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
260,000 
$ 
75,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
335,000 
169
606 of 763

--- page 607 ---
ADAPTATION PLAN
Project No.
46C005
Purpose
This project initiates the assessment of climate 
change impacts to the City and includes an 
evaluation of vulnerability, exposure, and risk. 
Adaptation strategies will be developed based on 
the level of protection of the City's bayfront levee 
system and consideration of land use regulations. 
An adaptation pathway will be developed and future 
monitoring recommended. 
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Azalea Mitch
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Taxes, Fees, and Charges
$ 
-
$ 
100,000 
$ 
50,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
150,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
100,000 
$ 
50,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
150,000 
170
607 of 763

--- page 608 ---
DOWNTOWN PARKING GARAGE PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
Project No.
46F001
Purpose
The project scope includes construction of 
pedestrian safety improvements at two City-owned 
parking garages: Main Street Parking Garage and 
Central Parking Garage. These improvements will 
address site-specific safety deficiencies at each 
facility to enhance pedestrian safety in Downtown 
San Mateo for all ages and abilities. Improvements 
include audible and visual pedestrian and vehicle 
warning devices, physical separation for pedestrian 
pathways, speed cushions, and updating signage 
and pavement markings to MUTCD standards.
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Nicolette Chan
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
140,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
140,000
Measure A
 
-
 
 
560,000 
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
560,000
TOTAL
$ 
140,000
$ 
560,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$  700,000
171
608 of 763

--- page 609 ---
CORP YARD MISC IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
46F003
Purpose
The existing Corporation Yard for the City is 
located at 1949-2001 Pacific Boulevard, a 5.2 
acre parcel. The Public Works and the Parks and 
Recreation departments currently occupy the 
existing Corporation Yard. Functions located at 
the facility include sewer collection; street and 
traffic maintenance; facilities maintenance; fleet 
maintenance; a receiving warehouse; landscape 
maintenance; and related administrative staff. The 
facilities are aging and in need of improvements. 
Upgrades include: pavement rehabilitation and 
improvements to the existing restrooms, locker 
rooms, office spaces, common areas, etc. 
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
100,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 1,000,000
$ 1,000,000
$ 2,100,000 
TOTAL
$ 
100,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 1,000,000
$ 1,000,000
$ 2,100,000 
172
609 of 763

--- page 610 ---
PAINT - CENTRAL PARKING GARAGE
Project No.
46F005
Purpose
Routine maintenance item to preserve the existing 
facility.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
- 
$ 
150,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
150,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
- 
$ 
150,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
150,000 
173
610 of 763

--- page 611 ---
PARK RESTROOM PHASE V
Project No.
46F015
Purpose
Park restrooms remodel. Includes restrooms at 
Shoreview and Lakeshore Parks.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
750,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
750,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
750,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
750,000 
174
611 of 763

--- page 612 ---
MAIN LIBRARY PAINTING
Project No.
46F016
Purpose
The Main Library was built in 2006 and has provided 
resources and services to San Mateo County by 
offering a variety of media to meet the needs of 
individuals and groups for education, information, 
and personal development. The general lifespan 
for interior paint is 12-15 years, so the facility is due 
for repainting. The project involves coordination 
with various library/community groups and involves 
phasing, temporary relocation, and shutdowns.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
50,000 
$ 
400,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
450,000 
TOTAL
$ 
50,000 
$ 
400,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
450,000 
175
612 of 763

--- page 613 ---
PANIC BUTTONS AT COUNTERS AND OFFICES
Project No.
46F018
Purpose
This project is to install buttons underneath public 
counters and private offices to alert the Police 
Department in the event of an emergency.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Taxes, Fees, and Charges
$ 
-
$ 
75,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
75,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
75,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
75,000 
176
613 of 763

--- page 614 ---
OFFICES - ACOUSTIC ATTENUATION - CITY HALL
Project No.
46F021
Purpose
This project is to decrease sound transmission 
between offices and conference room and engages 
professional acoustical engineering services.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Taxes, Fees, and Charges
$ 
-
$ 
16,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
16,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
16,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
16,000 
177
614 of 763

--- page 615 ---
FINANCE COUNTER SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
46F022
Purpose
Improvements to create an accessible counter and 
increase security while providing public service.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
80,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
80,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
80,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
80,000 
178
615 of 763

--- page 616 ---
SHOREVIEW BASKETBALL COURT RESURFACING
Project No.
46F023
Purpose
The scope of work involves replacing the entire 
basketball surface, poles, backboard, net, and 
benches.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
450,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
450,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
450,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
450,000 
179
616 of 763

--- page 617 ---
PARKING FACILITY STRUCTURAL REPAIRS
Project No.
46F025
Purpose
To preserve the City's infrastructure by 
investigating the structural condition of and making 
improvements to every downtown parking garage 
over the next five years. The proposed timeline 
begins with assessing the 2nd & El Camino Parking 
Garage, the Central Parking Garage, the Transit 
Center Parking Garage, the Central Park Tennis 
Court Parking Garage, and the Main Street Parking 
Garage.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
- 
$ 
-
$ 
700,095
$ 1,000,000
$ 1,700,095 
Parking In-Lieu
 
-
 
3,200,000
 
1,000,000
 
1,000,000
 
299,905
 
-
 
5,499,905 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 3,200,000
$ 1,000,000 
$ 1,000,000
$ 1,000,000
$ 1,000,000
$ 7,200,000 
180
617 of 763

--- page 618 ---
NEW CENTRAL PARK PARKING GARAGE
Project No.
46F026
Purpose
The project includes the construction of a new 
parking garge at Central Park.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Kathy Kleinbaum
Master Plan
Central Park Master Plan
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Parking In-Lieu
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 18,000,000 
$ 18,000,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$18,000,000 
$18,000,000 
181
618 of 763

--- page 619 ---
POLICE DEPARTMENT ROOF IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
46F027
Purpose
This project involves building a new roof with 
positive drainage over the existing damaged roof at 
the Police headquarters building.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Projects that Avoid Future Additional Cost
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure S
$ 
-
$ 1,000,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 1,000,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 1,000,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 1,000,000 
182
619 of 763

--- page 620 ---
LAKESHORE RECREATION CENTER ADA ENTRY
Project No.
46F028
Purpose
The project consists of improvements to the 
building entrance are required for safety and ADA 
compliance.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
- 
$ 
50,000
$ 
400,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
450,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
50,000
$ 
400,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
450,000 
183
620 of 763

--- page 621 ---
CITYWIDE FACILITIES CONDITION ASSESSMENT
Project No.
46F030
Purpose
The purpose of this Citywide program is to preserve 
the City's infrastructure by investigating the 
structural condition of every facility over the next 
five years.   The proposed timeline begins with 
assessing essential services buildings such as the 
Police Station, Fire Stations, City Hall, recreation 
centers and libraries. 
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
100,000
$ 
100,000
$ 
100,000
$ 
100,000
$ 
100,000
$ 
500,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
100,000
$ 
100,000
$ 
100,000
$ 
100,000
$ 
100,000
$ 
500,000 
184
621 of 763

--- page 622 ---
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - UPS REPLACEMENT
Project No.
46F032
Purpose
The project includes the replacement of the UPS 
system at City Hall.
Project Type
Miscellaneous
Project Category
Major Service Equipment Replacement
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Miscellaneous
$ 
-
$ 
400,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
400,000
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
400,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
400,000
185
622 of 763

--- page 623 ---
BERESFORD BASKETBALL COURT RESURFACE
Project No.
46F033
Purpose
The project includes the installation of sport court 
material, replacement of benches, poles, and 
backboards.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
180,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
180,000
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
180,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
180,000
186
623 of 763

--- page 624 ---
LOS PRADOS COURT LIGHTING IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
46F034
Purpose
The project includes the repair and conversion of 
the lights at the tennis and basketball courts to LED 
for recreation and safety.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
-
$ 
120,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
120,000
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
120,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
120,000
187
624 of 763

--- page 625 ---
ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION - CENTRAL GARAGE
Project No.
46F035
Purpose
This project includes the upgrade of the controls 
system of the elevator as required for code 
compliance and waterproofing to maintain safe 
operations.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
- 
$ 
500,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
500,000
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
500,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
500,000
188
625 of 763

--- page 626 ---
KING POOL ASSESSMENT AND IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
46F036
Purpose
The project involves a comprehensive assessment 
of the pool and implementation of capital 
improvements.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Parks and Recreation Tax 
and Fees
$ 
- 
$ 
100,000
$ 3,000,000
$ 3,000,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 6,100,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
100,000
$ 3,000,000
$ 3,000,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 6,100,000 
189
626 of 763

--- page 627 ---
JOINVILLE POOL ASSESSMENT AND IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
46F037
Purpose
The project involves a comprehensive assessment 
of the pool and implementation of capital 
improvements.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Parks and Recreation Tax 
and Fees
$ 
-
$ 
100,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
100,000
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
100,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
100,000
190
627 of 763

--- page 628 ---
RAILROAD CROSSING IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
46M001
Purpose
Install City's portion of improvements (within City 
right of way) associated with California Public 
Utilities Commission (CPUC) Section 130 railroad 
crossing improvements at 4th Avenue and 5th 
Avenue at-grade railroad crossings. 
Project Type
Miscellaneous
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Tina Pham
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Minimize impacts to residents from train horn noise 
at City at grade crossings.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Grants
$ 
250,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
250,000
Other Agencies
 
1,566,125 
 
500,000
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
-
 
2,066,125 
TOTAL
$ 
1,816,125 
$ 
500,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
2,316,125 
191
628 of 763

--- page 629 ---
HILLSDALE BOULEVARD AND ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS SIGNAL
Project No.
46R001
Purpose
Install a traffic signal at the Hillsdale Boulevard 
and Alameda de las Pulgas intersection to improve 
safety and optimize congestion. 
Project Type
Traffic
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Sang Cho
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure A
$ 
430,000 
$ 
-
$ 
400,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
830,000 
TOTAL
$ 
430,000 
$ 
-
$ 
400,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
830,000 
192
629 of 763

--- page 630 ---
RAILROAD AVENUE WALL ENHANCEMENT
Project No.
46R008
Purpose
Caltrain will be constructing a parking track near the 
neighborhood of Hayward Park. Caltrains parking 
track runs parallel to S. Railroad Avenue between 
10th Avenue and 14th Avenue. The Railroad Avenue 
Wall Enhancement project will construct a wall to 
obstruct the view of Caltrain's parking track. 
Project Type
Miscellaneous
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Jay Yu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Traffic Impact Fee
$ 
1,100,000 
$ 1,000,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 2,100,000 
TOTAL
$ 
1,100,000 
$ 1,000,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 2,100,000 
193
630 of 763

--- page 631 ---
GRAMMERCY DRIVE RETAINING WALL
Project No.
46R009
Purpose
Long term roadway reconstruction and stabilization 
via retaining wall. 
Project Type
Streets
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Stephanie Piñon
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
275,000 
$ 
50,000
$ 2,300,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 2,625,000
TOTAL
$ 
275,000 
$ 
50,000
$ 2,300,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 2,625,000
194
631 of 763

--- page 632 ---
25TH AVENUE UNDERGROUNDING - PHASE II
Project No.
46R010
Purpose
Relocate all overhead electrical below ground per 
Rule 20A on 25th Avenue from El Camino Real to 
Delaware Street. 
Project Type
Utility Underground
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Elton Yee
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure A
$ 
260,000 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
260,000
Other Agencies
-
2,650,000
-
-
-
-
 
2,650,000 
TOTAL
$ 
260,000
$ 2,650,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 2,910,000
195
632 of 763

--- page 633 ---
251
FUND INFORMATION
101/92 MULTI-MODAL (FASHION ISLAND CLASS IV BIKE LANE)
Project No.
46R016
Purpose
This complete streets project is intended to to 
implement a proposed Class IV separated bikeway 
on Fashion Island Boulevard and 19th Avenue 
that will include many pedestrian co-benefits. 
The dedicated bikeway under the US 101/SR 92 
interchange will provide access from eastern San 
Mateo and Foster City to both the existing Hayward 
Park Caltrain Station and the proposed US 101/SR 
92 SamTrans Mobility Hub to facilitate multimodal 
transportation connections.
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Master Plan
Bicycle Master Plan
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Grants
$
-
$ 
255,000 
$ 
554,545 
$ 
831,819 
$ 3,988,636
$
-
$ 5,630,000
Measure A
-
-
 
55,455
 
83,131
 
61,364
-
199,950
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
255,000
$ 
610,000
$ 
914,950
$ 4,050,000
$
-
$ 5,829,950
196
633 of 763

--- page 634 ---
DOWNTOWN GRADE SEPARATION STUDY
Project No.
46R017
Purpose
This project involves the development of options 
for the separation of existing at-grade crossings in 
downtown (1st - 5th and 9th Avenue). 
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Jay Yu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Plan for the downtown grade separations and long‐
term train corridor improvements.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Grants
$
-
$ 1,000,000 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 1,000,000
Measure W
-
100,000
-
-
-
-
 
100,000
TOTAL
$
-
$ 1,100,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
1,100,000
197
634 of 763

--- page 635 ---
HILLSDALE BIKE PED BRIDGE FEASIBILITY STUDY
Project No.
46R018
Purpose
This is a feasibility study to analyze other options to 
get pedestrians and bicyclists across Hillsdale. The 
existing Hillsdale Bike/ped bridge alignment was 
too expensive to move forward with PS&E and CON, 
and with roadway alignment changes on US101 may 
not be feasible. This necessitates a re-evaluation to 
determine the preferred alternative for future PS&E. 
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Grants
$
-
$ 
150,000 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
150,000
Measure A
-
15,000
-
-
-
-
 
15,000
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
165,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
165,000
198
635 of 763

--- page 636 ---
CITYWIDE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL PROGRAM
Project No.
46R019
Purpose
This program will identify and develop specific 
improvements to address pedestrian and access 
safety around schools. 
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure A
$
-
$ 
140,000 
$ 
140,000 
$ 
140,000 
$ 
140,000 
$
-
$ 
560,000
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
140,000
$ 
140,000
$ 
140,000
$ 
140,000
$
-
$ 
560,000
199
636 of 763

--- page 637 ---
DOWNTOWN TRAFFIC SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
46R020
Purpose
This project focuses on pedestrian safety 
improvements in the downtown. Improvements 
could include a study, or plan, crosswalk 
improvements, bulb outs, lighting, and other safety 
related improvements.
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Jay Yu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Private Contributions
$
-
$ 
100,000 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
100,000
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
100,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
100,000
200
637 of 763

--- page 638 ---
DOWNTOWN CIRCULATION STUDY
Project No.
46R021
Purpose
This study will reanalyze the downtown circulation 
after the July direction from City Council to remove 
the recommended bike lanes on B. Street. This 
study will assess public right-of-way and circulation 
in Downtown San Mateo to identify priority modes 
for each street segment. 
Project Type
Traffic
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure A
$
-
$ 
200,000 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
200,000
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
200,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
200,000
201
638 of 763

--- page 639 ---
DELAWARE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL CORRIDOR
Project No.
46R022
Purpose
This is a fully grant-funded project (ATP Cycle 6). 
The purpose of this project to improve the bike 
infrastructure on Delaware from Pacific to 19th 
Avenue. This is an essential corridor to connect the 
community to schools. 
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Bethany Lopez
Master Plan
Bicycle Master Plan
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Grants
$ 
-
$ 
260,000 
$ 1,400,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 1,660,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
260,000
$ 1,400,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 1,660,000 
202
639 of 763

--- page 640 ---
TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE UPDATE
Project No.
46R023
Purpose
This project is to update the existing level of service 
based Transportation Improvement Fee to a new 
metric to better align with the new General Plan.
Project Type
Traffic
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Jay Yu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Traffic Impact Fee
$
-
$
-
$ 
100,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
100,000
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$ 
100,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
100,000
203
640 of 763

--- page 641 ---
BIKE SAN MATEO PROGRAM
Project No.
46R024
Purpose
This is a comprehensive program specifically 
dedicated to implement all the high and medium-
high projects identified in the 2020 Bicycle 
Master Plan. This program will delineate funding 
and scheduling by year to accomplish the goal 
of designing and constructing these projects as 
directed by City Council.
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Master Plan
Bicycle Master Plan
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Traffic Impact Fee
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
700,000
$ 
700,000
$ 
700,000
$ 2,100,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
700,000
$ 
700,000
$ 
700,000
$ 2,100,000 
204
641 of 763

--- page 642 ---
BASINS 2 AND 3 COLLECTION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
46S003
Purpose
Needed to replace aging infrastructure, ensure 
reliable operations, provide capacity for wet weather 
flow, and comply with regulatory requirements. 
The project includes pipeline replacement and 
upsizing (total of approximately 19,000 feet), 
pump station upgrades, force main rehabilitation 
(approximately 2,000 feet), and a new underground 
flow equalization holding structure (approximately 
5.3 million gallons) and associated diversion sewers 
(3,400 feet) in the central area of the collection 
system.
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Deryk Daquigan
Master Plan
Clean Water Program (2014)
Council Priority
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Private Contributions
$ 
3,781,944 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
3,781,944
Sewer
 
154,780,241 
 
855,000
-
-
-
-
 155,635,241 
TOTAL
$ 
158,562,185 
$ 
855,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 159,417,185
205
642 of 763

--- page 643 ---
CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) SEWER FLOW MONITORING AND REPORTING
Project No.
46S090
Purpose
Needed to analyze the changing hydraulics of the 
collection system. Hydraulic conditions regularly 
change due to aging infrastructure, changes in 
rainfall and inflow/infiltration, and impacts of capital 
improvement projects. The project includes flow 
monitoring/measurement in the collection system on 
an as-needed basis, and maintenance of the system 
hydraulic model. 
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Deryk Daquigan
Master Plan
Clean Water Program (2014)
Council Priority
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$ 
572,000 
$ 
90,000
$ 
95,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
757,000
TOTAL
$ 
572,000 
$ 
90,000
$ 
95,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
757,000
206
643 of 763

--- page 644 ---
CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) ANNUAL CITYWIDE SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION
Project No.
46S091
Purpose
Annual program needed to repair defects in gravity 
collection pipes to prevent increase of infiltration 
and inflow and pipe failures. The project includes 
rehabilitation needs identified by annual CCTV 
inspection of collection system gravity pipes and 
manholes. Projects are recommended on an annual 
basis and may include sewer spot repairs, gravity 
sewer lining, full pipe replacements and manhole 
lining and repairs. The City's sewer system is divided 
into several basins that are evaluated every five 
years (Basins A, B, C, D & E and El Camino Real).
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Laura Webb
Master Plan
Clean Water Program (2014)
Council Priority
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$ 
39,651,000 
$ 11,700,000
$ 11,000,000
$ 4,890,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 67,241,000 
TOTAL
$ 
39,651,000 
$ 11,700,000
$ 11,000,000
$ 4,890,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 67,241,000 
207
644 of 763

--- page 645 ---
CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION (CCTV) INSPECTION PROGRAM
Project No.
46S093
Purpose
Annual program needed to identify defects in 
gravity collection pipes. Includes video inspection 
(closed circuit television, CCTV) of gravity 
pipes systems every five years (1/5 of collection 
system inspected each year). All inspected pipes 
and manholes are assessed and considered for 
rehabilitation.
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Laura Webb
Master Plan
Clean Water Program (2014)
Council Priority
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$ 
4,031,000 
$ 
770,000
$ 
765,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 5,566,000 
TOTAL
$ 
4,031,000 
$ 
770,000
$ 
765,000
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 5,566,000 
208
645 of 763

--- page 646 ---
TMDL ENHANCED PLANNING AND INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
46S101
Purpose
Develop, submit, implement, and monitor an 
enhanced infrastructure renewal and capacity 
assurance plan that prioritizes sewer system 
inspections and repairs in areas within 1/2 mile of 
the San Mateo beaches as required to comply with 
the Regional Water Quality Control Board's total 
maximum daily load (TMDL) requirements.
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Deryk Daquigan
Master Plan
Sanitary Sewer Management Plan
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$
-
$ 1,000,000
$ 2,500,000
$ 2,500,000
$ 2,500,000
$ 2,500,000
$ 11,000,000
TOTAL
$
-
$ 1,000,000
$ 2,500,000
$ 2,500,000
$ 2,500,000
$ 2,500,000
$ 11,000,000
209
646 of 763

--- page 647 ---
SANITARY SEWER FLOW MONITORING & REPORTING
Project No.
46S190
Purpose
Hydraulic conditions of the sewer system 
change due to aging infrastructure and inflow/
infiltration. The project consists of flow monitoring/
measurement of the sewer collection system on 
an as-needed basis and maintenance of the sewer 
system hydraulic model to assess capacity.
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Deryk Daquigan
Master Plan
Sanitary Sewer Management Plan
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
125,000
$ 
125,000
$ 
250,000
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
125,000
$ 
125,000
$ 
250,000
210
647 of 763

--- page 648 ---
ANNUAL SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION
Project No.
46S191
Purpose
Annual program to repair defects in the sewer 
system pipes to minimize infiltration and inflow and 
pipe failures. The project includes the repair of 
defects identified by annual CCTV inspections of 
the collection system gravity pipes and manholes. 
Projects are recommended on an annual basis and 
may include sewer spot repairs, gravity sewer lining, 
full pipe replacements and manhole lining and 
repairs. The City's sewer system consists of several 
basins that are evaluated every five years (Basins A, 
B, C, D & E and El Camino Real).
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Laura Webb
Master Plan
Sanitary Sewer Management Plan
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 5,120,000
$ 10,350,000
$ 15,470,000
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 5,120,000
$ 10,350,000
$ 15,470,000
211
648 of 763

--- page 649 ---
SANITARY SEWER PUMP STATION UPGRADES
Project No.
46S192
Purpose
A biennial program needed to maintain the 
reliability of the City's sanitary sewer pump stations. 
The program includes pump station repair and 
rehabilitation projects identified through condition 
assessments. Projects are recommended on a 
biennial basis and may include pump, valve and 
piping replacement, wet well and valve vault 
lining and/or repair or complete replacement, 
instrumentation, controls, and electrical replacement 
or upgrades, force main repair, and the addition of 
standby generators.
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Tom Williams
Master Plan
Sanitary Sewer Management Plan
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 13,020,000
$ 3,000,000
$ 16,020,000 
TOTAL
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 13,020,000
$ 3,000,000
$ 16,020,000 
212
649 of 763

--- page 650 ---
SANITARY SEWER CCTV INSPECTION PROGRAM
Project No.
46S193
Purpose
The program involves video inspection (closed 
circuit television, CCTV) of the City's sewer 
collection system (1/5 of the collection system 
inspected each year). All inspected pipes and 
manholes are assessed and considered for 
rehabilitation. 
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Laura Webb
Master Plan
Sanitary Sewer Management Plan
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
900,000
$ 
635,000
$ 1,535,000
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
900,000
$ 
635,000
$ 1,535,000
213
650 of 763

--- page 651 ---
WWTP AND FLOW MANAGEMENT UPGRADE AND EXPANSION
Project No.
46T003
Purpose
Needed to replace aging infrastructure, ensure 
reliable operations, provide capacity for wet weather 
flow, and comply with regulatory requirements. The 
project includes new biological nutrient removal 
(BNR)/membrane bioreactor (MBR) wastewater 
treatment facilities. Project includes all preliminary, 
primary, and secondary treatment facillities, site 
preparation, stormwater management, automation 
of the plant, a new administration building, new 
maintenance warehouse and improvements to the 
pedestrian and bike path surrounding the plant site. 
Effluent from new facilities will meet Title 22 reycled 
water quality. 
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Thomas Ruark
Master Plan
Clean Water Program (2014)
Council Priority
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Other Agencies
$ 
160,959,351 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 160,959,351
Sewer
 
363,757,649 
 
11,210,000
 15,400,000
-
-
-
 390,367,649 
TOTAL
$ 
524,717,000 
$ 11,210,000
$15,400,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 551,327,000
214
651 of 763

--- page 652 ---
CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) WWTP ANNUAL MAJOR COMPONENTS
Project No.
46T090
Purpose
Needed to maintain reliable plant operations and 
meet permit requirements. The project is comprised 
of repair and/or replacement of critical equipment 
throughout the wastewater treatment plant to 
maintain reliable operations.
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Deryk Daquigan
Master Plan
Clean Water Program (2014)
Council Priority
Fund and deliver the Clean Water Program.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Other Agencies
$ 
1,679,612 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
1,679,612
Sewer
 
3,714,388 
 
3,500,000
 
1,030,000
-
-
-
 
8,244,388 
TOTAL
$ 
5,394,000 
$ 3,500,000
$ 1,030,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 9,924,000
215
652 of 763

--- page 653 ---
WWTP ANNUAL REPAIRS
Project No.
46T190
Purpose
The effort is comprised of the repair and/or 
replacement of critical equipment at the wastewater 
treatment plant to maintain reliable operations and 
meet permit requirements.
Project Type
Sanitary Sewer
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Deryk Daquigan
Master Plan
Sanitary Sewer Management Plan
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Sewer
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 3,570,000
$
-
$ 3,570,000
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 3,570,000
$
-
$ 3,570,000
216
653 of 763

--- page 654 ---
STORMWATER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Project No.
46W002
Purpose
The City’s stormwater system consists of storm 
drains, creeks/channels, green infrastructure, pump 
stations, and the Marina Lagoon. This Program 
funds stormwater system condition assessments, 
capacity evaluations, master planning, and capital 
improvements for flood control. 
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
Storm Drain Master Plan
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure S
$ 
250,000 
$ 
400,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
650,000
TOTAL
$ 
250,000 
$ 
400,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
650,000
217
654 of 763

--- page 655 ---
EXTERNAL RADIO INFRASTRUCTURE
Project No.
512000
Purpose
Complete replacement of the public safety radio 
infrastructure, which has far surpassed its projected 
lifespan. The Department’s radio technicians 
have been able to piecemeal various parts and 
equipment to continue functionality, but the 
system is at risk of failure. Additionally, the existing 
equipment lacks the ability to support modern 
technology such as encryption, GPS, and Wi-Fi.
Project Type
Miscellaneous
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Marie Silva
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure S
$
-
$ 
900,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
900,000
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
900,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
900,000
218
655 of 763

--- page 656 ---
POLICE RADIOS - HAND HELD AND MOBILE
Project No.
513000
Purpose
Complete replacement of handheld and mobile 
radios for the Police Department. New radios 
and mobiles will allow for the use of advanced 
technologies. This will offer the Department access 
to GPS, Bluetooth, an emergency button, and 
encryption. The mobile radios are three years past 
their projected lifespan and the current handhelds 
will not accommodate the advanced technology.
Project Type
Miscellaneous
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Marie Silva
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$ 
662,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
662,000
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$ 
662,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
662,000
219
656 of 763

--- page 657 ---
TREE PLANTING - PARKS DIVISION
Project No.
610008
Purpose
Planting trees in parks and along streets within the 
City to maintain the City's tree canopy.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Matthew Fried
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Miscellaneous
$ 
600,000 
$ 
200,000 
$ 
100,000 
$ 
100,000 
$ 
100,000 
$ 
100,000 
$ 1,200,000 
Tree Replacement Fee
 
2,634,250 
 
200,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
100,000
 
3,234,250 
TOTAL
$ 
3,234,250 
$ 
400,000
$ 
200,000
$ 
200,000
$ 
200,000
$ 
200,000
$ 4,434,250 
220
657 of 763

--- page 658 ---
CITYWIDE PARK FENCING AND STRUCTURES
Project No.
610014
Purpose
Replacement fund for minor playground structure 
replaments and or fencing as is required. To design 
and install protective shade structures within City 
parks. The Department targets key areas in parks 
for new shade structures including picnic areas, 
play areas, ballfield team enclosures, etc.  Shade 
structures are typically installed in conjuntion with 
other play area or picnic area upgrades and/or 
replacements.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Ron Hostick 
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
10,000 
$
-
$ 
400,000
$ 
400,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
810,000
Parks and Recreation Tax 
and Fees
 
416,000 
-
-
-
-
-
416,000
TOTAL
$ 
426,000 
$
-
$ 
400,000
$ 
400,000
$
-
$
-
$ 1,226,000
221
658 of 763

--- page 659 ---
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Grants
$ 
441,848 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$  441,848
Miscellaneous
 
5,315,610 
-
-
-
-
-
5,315,610
Parks and Recreation Tax 
and Fees
 
5,912,628 
-
3,375,000
 
1,625,000 
 
2,000,000 
 
2,000,000 
 
14,912,628 
TOTAL
$ 
11,670,086 
$
-
$ 3,375,000
$ 1,625,000
$ 2,000,000
$ 2,000,000
$20,670,086
CITYWIDE PARK PLAY AREA UPGRADE
Project No.
610017
Purpose
To maintain safe play areas with high recreation 
value within all City Parks. The next park to receive 
upgrades is East Hillsdale. The plan is to install 
new play equipment and amenities that meet the 
current safety and accessibility guidelines, improves 
recreational opportunities and increases play value 
for all children.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Joanne Magrini
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
222
659 of 763

--- page 660 ---
SPORTS FIELDS CONVERSION - SYNTHETIC TURF
Project No.
610023
Purpose
The Department has identified a need for additional 
athletic field time within the City’s parks system. One 
way to add additional field capacity is to convert 
selected existing turf fields to synthetic turf so that 
they are available for more hours. The City has 
completed two such projects at Los Prados and 
King Parks.  A third project is desirable at one of the 
remaining two fields, Fiesta Meadows or Bayside 
Joinville.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Ron Hostick 
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Grants
$ 
460,350 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
460,350
Parks and Recreation Tax 
and Fees
 
5,333,445 
 
500,000 
 
1,000,000 
 
500,000 
-
-
 
7,333,445 
TOTAL
$ 
5,793,795 
$ 
500,000
$ 1,000,000
$ 
500,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
7,793,795
223
660 of 763

--- page 661 ---
CENTRAL PARK
Project No.
610027
Purpose
To make improvements to Central Park in 
accordance with the approved and updated Park 
Master plan. The first phase of implementation will 
include the renovation of the existing play area, 
including restrooms as well as installation of the 
Fallen Heroes Memorial.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Joanne Magrini
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Implement the Central Park Master Plan.
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure S
$ 
500,000 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
500,000
Parks and Recreation Tax 
and Fees
 
9,389,718 
 
2,000,000 
 
3,000,000 
 
3,000,000 
 
2,000,000 
-
19,389,718
TOTAL
$ 
9,889,718 
$ 2,000,000
$ 3,000,000
$ 3,000,000
$ 2,000,000
$
-
$ 19,889,718
224
661 of 763

--- page 662 ---
SYNTHETIC FIELD REPLACEMENT
Project No.
610055
Purpose
Start a fund for replacement of the curent synthetic 
fields, with an approximate life span of 10 years, Los 
Prados (2017) King (2020)
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Major Service Equipment Replacement
Project Manager
Ron Hostick
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Measure S
$
-
$ 
500,000 
$ 1,000,000 
$ 
500,000 
$
-
$
-
$ 2,000,000
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
500,000 
$ 1,000,000 
$ 
500,000 
$
-
$
-
$ 2,000,000
225
662 of 763

--- page 663 ---
PARKS - IRRIGATION CONTROLLER UPGRADE
Project No.
610060
Purpose
Update older controllers, improve inputs in the 
Calsense Irrigation Control System for more 
accurate water usage information.  
Start a plan for controller communication upgrades, 
possibly use Wi-Fi at rec centers.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Major Service Equipment Replacement
Project Manager
Ron Hostick
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Parks and Recreation Tax 
and Fees
$
-
$150,000
 
$150,000 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
300,000
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
150,000 
$ 
150,000 
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
300,000
226
663 of 763

--- page 664 ---
GOLF COURSE - WELL DRILLING
Project No.
618278
Purpose
Drill and install a new irrigation well to provide a 
secondary souce of water in the event the primary 
well fails. Primary well is over 20 years old and 
has needed numerous repairs recently. Without an 
operable well, the potential for turf loss is high and 
a costly expense to replace. Potable water as an 
alternative water source is also etremely expensive.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Kevin Kobayashi
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
Parks and Recreation Tax 
and Fees
$ 
252,000 
$ 
200,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
452,000 
TOTAL
$ 
252,000 
$ 
200,000 
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
-
$ 
452,000 
227
664 of 763

--- page 665 ---
MARINA LIBRARY STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS
Project No.
665100
Purpose
Funding for improvements to resolve settlement 
issues at the facility. Includes deep underpinning 
to the existing foundation, such as auger cast piles 
with grade beam foundations for re-leveling.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Steve Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Funded
FUNDING SOURCE
 TOTAL 
COMMITMENT 
TO DATE
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
PLAN
2025-26 
PLAN
2026-27 
PLAN
2027-28 
PLAN
TOTAL
General Fund
$ 
1,750,000 
$ (1,292,000)
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
458,000
Grants
 
1,750,000 
 
1,500,000 
-
-
-
-
 
3,250,000 
TOTAL
$ 
3,500,000 
$ 
208,000
$
-
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 3,708,000
228
665 of 763

--- page 666 ---
CITYWIDE PARK PLAY AREA UPGRADE
Project No.
610017
Purpose
To maintain safe play areas with high recreation 
value within all City Parks. After East Hillsdale Park is 
completed, we could be facing a lack of funds with 
which to complete further park improvements. 
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Joanne Magrini 
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$ 
1,000,000
$ 
1,000,000
$
-
$ 
2,000,000
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$ 
1,000,000
$ 
1,000,000
$
-
$ 
2,000,000
229
666 of 763

--- page 667 ---
16TH AVENUE DRAINAGE AREA
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is proposed for system-wide storm 
drainage improvements within the 16th Avenue 
Drainage Catchment Area as identified in the 2004 
Storm Drain Master Plan.
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
Storm Drain Master Plan
Council Priority
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
9,521,000
$
-
$ 
9,521,000
Taxes, Fees & Charges
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
9,521,000
$
-
$ 
9,521,000
230
667 of 763

--- page 668 ---
19TH AVENUE DRAINAGE AREA
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is proposed for system-wide storm 
drainage improvements within the 19th Avenue 
Drainage Catchment Area as identified in the 2004 
Storm Drain Master Plan.
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
Storm Drain Master Plan
Council Priority
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
11,972,000
$
-
$ 
11,972,000
Taxes, Fees & Charges
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
11,972,000
$
-
$ 
11,972,000
231
668 of 763

--- page 669 ---
3RD AVE/NORFOLK INTERSECTION PED/BIKE ACCESS IMPROVEMENT
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
Implement bicycle and pedestrian improvements 
identified in the Bicycle Master Plan and Pedestrian 
Master Plan for the 3rd Avenue/Norfolk Intersection. 
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Bethany Lopez
Master Plan
Bicycle Master Plan/Pedestrian Master Plan
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
Measure A
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
370,000
$
-
$ 
370,000
Grants
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
370,000
$
-
$ 
370,000
232
669 of 763

--- page 670 ---
ANNUAL PARKING REPAVING PROJECT 
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
To maintain current asphalt quality minor repairs 
and seal coat are necessary. Planned locations: 
Shoreline Parks, Lakeshore, Los Prados, Beresford 
(Upper lot)
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Project that Avoid Future Additional Cost
Project Manager
Stephen Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$ 
561,000
$ 
100,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
661,000
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
561,000
$ 
100,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
661,000
233
670 of 763

--- page 671 ---
FIRE STATION #27 - ROOF REPLACEMENT
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is a maintenance project to replace a 
roof that is at the end of its useful life.  The process 
involves an initial assessment to define the scope 
(repair/replacement) in order to develop a cost 
estimate.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Stephen Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
140,000
$
-
$ 
140,000
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
140,000
$
-
$ 
140,000
234
671 of 763

--- page 672 ---
GOLF COURSE BUNKER RENOVATION
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
Improve the playability of the golf course and 
upgrade an integral feature of the golf course.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Kevin Kobayashi
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
Parks and Recreation Tax 
and Fees
$
-
$
-
$ 
175,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
175,000
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$ 
175,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
 
175,000
235
672 of 763

--- page 673 ---
GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
Develop a detailed plan to identify project 
locations to meet Green Infrastructure mandatory 
requirements within the updated Municipal regional 
Stormwater Permit (MRP) 2.0.
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Mandatory - Irreversible
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$ 
50,000
$ 
350,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
400,000
Grants
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
50,000
$ 
350,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
400,000
236
673 of 763

--- page 674 ---
HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1B
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is to design and construct the high 
priority package 1B bicycle project identified in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan. 
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Bethany Lopez
Master Plan
Bicycle Master Plan
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
Measure A
$
-
$ 
559,000
$ 
3,594,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
4,153,000
Grants
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
559,000
$ 
3,594,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
4,153,000
237
674 of 763

--- page 675 ---
HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1C
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is to design and construct the high 
priority package 1C bicycle project identified in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan. 
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Bethany Lopez
Master Plan
Bicycle Master Plan
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
Measure A
$
-
$ 
307,000
$ 
1,707,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
2,014,000
Grants
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
307,000
$ 
1,707,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
2,014,000
238
675 of 763

--- page 676 ---
HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1D
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is to design and construct the high 
priority package 1D bicycle project identified in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan. 
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Bethany Lopez
Master Plan
Bicycle Master Plan
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
Measure A
$
-
$ 
247,000
$ 
1,615,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
1,862,000
Grants
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
247,000
$ 
1,615,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
1,862,000
239
676 of 763

--- page 677 ---
HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1E
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is to design and construct the high 
priority package 1E bicycle project identified in the 
2020 Bicycle Master Plan. 
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Bethany Lopez
Master Plan
Bicycle Master Plan
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
Measure A
$
-
$ 
625,613
$ 
4,711,868
$
-
$
-
$ 
5,337,481
Grants
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
625,613
$ 
4,711,868
$
-
$
-
$ 
5,337,481
240
677 of 763

--- page 678 ---
HILLSDALE LIBRARY - ROOF REPLACEMENT
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is a maintenance project to replace a 
roof that is at the end of its useful life.  The process 
involves an initial assessment to define the scope 
(repair/replacement) in order to develop a cost 
estimate.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Stephen Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
175,000
$
-
$ 
175,000
Taxes, Fees & Charges
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
175,000
$
-
$ 
175,000
241
678 of 763

--- page 679 ---
JAPANESE GARDEN REFURBISHMENT 
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
Koi Pond, fence and roof repairs. The Koi Pond - 
South end has been completed and the North end 
needs edges repairs to prevent significant water 
loss. Roof is in poor condition and will compromise 
valuable contents of the structure if not repaired.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Ron Hostick
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$ 
150,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
150,000
Measure S
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$ 
150,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
150,000
242
679 of 763

--- page 680 ---
LAUREL CREEK DRAINAGE AREA
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is proposed for system-wide storm 
drainage improvements within the Laurel Creek 
Drainage Catchment Area as identified in the 2004 
Storm Drain Master Plan.
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
Storm Drain Master Plan
Council Priority
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
9,567,000
$
-
$ 
9,567,000
Taxes, Fees & Charges
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
9,567,000
$
-
$ 
9,567,000
243
680 of 763

--- page 681 ---
MARINA LAGOON DREDGING
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
Develop a detailed Marina Lagoon Dredging Plan, 
obtain regulatory permits, perform additional 
analysis as needed, and begin focused efforts on 
strategic dredging of areas where water quality 
concerns due to shallow depths are high, and 
to maximize recreational uses and stormwater 
retention capacity. Costs include estimated 
sediment testing costs, permitting fees, engineering 
design, and construction costs.
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Necessary for Health and Safety
Project Manager
Evan Albert
Master Plan
Storm Drain Master Plan
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$ 
1,900,000
$ 
10,000,000
$ 
1,900,000
$ 
1,900,000
$ 
15,700,000
Taxes, Fees & Charges
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
1,900,000
$ 
10,000,000
$ 
1,900,000
$ 
1,900,000
$ 
15,700,000
244
681 of 763

--- page 682 ---
PACIFIC BOULEVARD DRAINAGE CHANNEL REHABILITATION
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
Rehabilitate concrete drainage channel along Pacific 
Blvd south of 19th Avenue. This work is needed to 
maintain the storm drain asset to assure full capacity 
and functionality, and avoid flooding. This project 
will require environmental and railroad permitting 
and associated costs.
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$ 
200,000
$ 
400,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
600,000
Measure S
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
200,000
$ 
400,000
$
-
$
-
$ 
600,000
245
682 of 763

--- page 683 ---
PENINSULA AVENUE BIKE CORRIDOR
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is to design and construct the High 
No. 2 Priority Bicycle project identified in the 2020 
Bicycle Master Plan. 
Project Type
Bikeway/Pedestrian
Project Category
Improve Quality of Life
Project Manager
Bethany Lopez
Master Plan
Bicycle Master Plan
Council Priority
Complete all High and Medium-High priority projects 
in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan and the Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
Measure A
$
-
$ 
237,000
$ 
1,945,000
$ 
2,182,000
Grants
TOTAL
$
-
$ 
237,000
$ 
1,945,000
$ 
2,182,000
246
683 of 763

--- page 684 ---
RESTROOM REFURBISHMENT PHASE 5 (LAKESHORE/SHOREVIEW)
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
Continuation of city wide park restroom 
refurbishments.
Project Type
Parks
Project Category
Necessary to Maintain Quality of Life
Project Manager
Stephen Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$ 
300,000
$
-
$
-
$300,000
Measure S
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$ 
300,000
$
-
$
-
$300,000
247
684 of 763

--- page 685 ---
SAN MATEO CREEK DRAINAGE AREA
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is proposed for system-wide storm 
drainage improvements within the San Mateo Creek 
Drainage Catchment Area as identified in the 2004 
Storm Drain Master Plan.
Project Type
Stormwater
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Jimmy Vo
Master Plan
Storm Drain Master Plan
Council Priority
Expedite efforts to improve the stormwater 
collection, drainage, and storage system, including 
dredging the Marina lagoon.
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
2,620,000
$
-
$ 
2,620,000
Taxes, Fees & Charges
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
2,620,000
$
-
$ 
2,620,000
248
685 of 763

--- page 686 ---
SHOREVIEW REC CENTER - ROOF REPLACEMENT
Project No.
TBD
Purpose
This project is a maintenance project to replace a 
roof that is at the end of its useful life.  The process 
involves an initial assessment to define the scope 
(repair/replacement) in order to develop a cost 
estimate.
Project Type
Buildings
Project Category
Maintain Current Investment
Project Manager
Stephen Wu
Master Plan
-
Council Priority
-
Project Charters
Priority Unfunded
POTENTIAL FUNDING 
SOURCE
2023-24 
ADOPTED 
BUDGET
2024-25 
ESTIMATE
2025-26 
ESTIMATE
2026-27 
ESTIMATE
2027-28 
ESTIMATE
ESTIMATED 
TOTAL
General Fund
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
176,000
$
-
$ 
176,000
TOTAL
$
-
$
-
$
-
$ 
176,000
$
-
$ 
176,000
249
686 of 763

--- page 687 ---
Capital Improvement Project Fund
 DESCRIPTION 
2022-23
 ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24
 PROPOSED
 BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
 $             63,978,054  $               8,138,564 
Revenue
GENERAL FUND
9,750,000
$                
12,250,000
$              
2% HOTEL TAX FUND TRANSFER IN
49,143
                       
-
                            
GAS TAX FUND TRANSFER IN
2,628,129
                  
520,000
                     
MEASURE A
2,904,621
                  
2,991,760
                  
MEASURE S TRACKING FUND TRANSFER IN
6,710,015
                  
3,850,000
                  
MEASURE W
1,000,000
                  
1,000,000
                  
PARKING IN-LIEU FEE
350,000
                     
-
                            
PARKS AND RECREATION REVENUE FUND TRANSFER IN
14,589,029
                
3,050,000
                  
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION FUND TRANSFER IN
3,995,088
                  
2,000,000
                  
SEWER FUND TRANSFER IN
305,764,919
              
41,360,000
                
TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE FUND TRANSFER IN
4,881,596
                  
49,860
                       
TREE REPLACEMENT FEE
150,000
                     
150,000
                     
OTHER SOURCES
111,719,768
              
10,009,066
                
Total Revenue
464,492,308
$            
77,230,686
$              
Recommended Project Budgets
GENERAL FUND
20,887,908
$              
10,153,000
$              
2% HOTEL TAX FUND PROJECTS
49,143
                       
-
                            
GAS TAX FUND PROJECTS
2,628,129
                  
520,000
                     
MEASURE A
9,021,233
                  
2,840,100
                  
MEASURE S TRACKING FUND PROJECTS
6,710,015
                  
3,850,000
                  
MEASURE W
2,775,729
                  
800,000
                     
PARKING IN-LIEU FEE
715,658
                     
3,200,000
                  
PARKS AND RECREATION REVENUE FUND PROJECTS
14,589,029
                
3,050,000
                  
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION FUND PROJECTS
3,995,088
                  
2,000,000
                  
SEWER FUND PROJECTS
305,764,919
              
41,360,000
                
TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE FUND PROJECTS
4,881,596
                  
49,860
                       
TREE REPLACEMENT FEE
377,313
                     
200,000
                     
OTHER SOURCES
147,936,039
              
10,009,066
                
Total Recommended Project Budgets
520,331,798
$            
78,032,026
$              
Other Sources *
-
$                          
140,000
$                   
Ending Fund Balance
8,138,564
$                
7,737,223
$                
* South Bayfront Assessment
250
687 of 763

--- page 688 ---
Capital Improvement Project Fund
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
 $                 7,737,223  $                 2,109,781  $                 2,230,608  $                 3,723,420 
5,250,000
$                  
4,250,000
$                  
2,750,000
$                  
2,750,000
$                  
27,250,000
$                
-
                               
-
                               
-
                               
-
                               
-
                               
1,530,000
                    
1,410,000
                    
1,400,000
                    
1,400,000
                    
6,260,000
                    
3,081,512
                    
3,173,958
                    
3,269,177
                    
3,367,252
                    
15,883,658
                  
2,050,000
                    
1,550,000
                    
1,050,000
                    
1,050,000
                    
9,550,000
                    
1,000,000
                    
1,000,000
                    
1,000,000
                    
1,000,000
                    
5,000,000
                    
-
                               
-
                               
-
                               
-
                               
-
                               
10,525,000
                  
8,125,000
                    
4,000,000
                    
2,000,000
                    
27,700,000
                  
2,500,000
                    
2,700,000
                    
2,700,000
                    
2,700,000
                    
12,600,000
                  
31,190,000
                  
7,790,000
                    
25,635,000
                  
17,010,000
                  
122,985,000
                
250,000
                       
850,000
                       
850,000
                       
850,000
                       
2,849,860
                    
150,000
                       
150,000
                       
150,000
                       
150,000
                       
750,000
                       
9,889,545
                    
2,091,819
                    
5,138,636
                    
19,150,000
                  
46,279,066
                  
67,416,057
$                
33,090,777
$                
47,942,813
$                
51,427,252
$                
277,107,585
$              
9,283,500
$                  
2,135,000
$                  
2,200,095
$                  
3,130,000
$                  
26,901,595
$                
-
                               
-
                               
-
                               
-
                               
-
                               
1,530,000
                    
1,410,000
                    
1,400,000
                    
1,400,000
                    
6,260,000
                    
3,225,455
                    
4,618,131
                    
2,476,364
                    
2,275,000
                    
15,435,050
                  
2,050,000
                    
1,550,000
                    
1,050,000
                    
1,050,000
                    
9,550,000
                    
1,900,000
                    
1,000,000
                    
1,000,000
                    
1,000,000
                    
5,700,000
                    
1,000,000
                    
1,000,000
                    
299,905
                       
-
                               
5,499,905
                    
10,525,000
                  
8,125,000
                    
4,000,000
                    
2,000,000
                    
27,700,000
                  
2,500,000
                    
2,700,000
                    
2,700,000
                    
2,700,000
                    
12,600,000
                  
31,190,000
                  
7,790,000
                    
25,635,000
                  
17,010,000
                  
122,985,000
                
250,000
                       
850,000
                       
850,000
                       
850,000
                       
2,849,860
                    
100,000
                       
100,000
                       
100,000
                       
100,000
                       
600,000
                       
9,889,545
                    
2,091,819
                    
5,138,636
                    
19,150,000
                  
46,279,066
                  
73,443,500
$                
33,369,950
$                
46,850,000
$                
50,665,000
$                
282,360,476
$              
140,000
$                     
140,000
$                     
140,000
$                     
140,000
$                     
700,000
$                     
2,109,781
$                  
2,230,608
$                  
3,723,420
$                  
4,885,672
$                  
251
688 of 763

--- page 689 ---
General Fund
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
12,010,258
$       
872,350
$            
Revenue
General Fund
6,750,000
$         
7,250,000
$         
Construction Services Fund
3,000,000
           
5,000,000
           
Total Revenue
9,750,000
$         
12,250,000
$       
Recommended Project Budgets
130004 PEDESTRIAN MALL CONSTRUCTION
600,000
$            
600,000
$            
313134 EMERGENCY TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE
50,000
                
-
                     
460040 HIGH VOLTAGE STREET LIGHT CONVERSION
5,897,296
           
4,950,000
           
460048 RELOCATE ELECTRICAL ROOM AT TRANSIT CENTER
90,000
                
-
                     
460053 PAINT EXTERIOR 2ND AVENUE / EL CAMINO REAL GARAGE
-
                     
-
                     
460054 PAINT EXTERIOR MAIN STREET GARAGE
-
                     
-
                     
460057 CITYWIDE FIRE - INTRUSION ALARM SYSTEM UPGRADE
250,000
              
-
                     
460058 ADA ENTRY COMPLIANCE - BERESFORD
311,845
              
250,000
              
460064 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS TURNKEY PROGRAM
112,727
              
-
                     
461001 DOWNTOWN PARKING IMPROVEMENTS
2,285,840
           
-
                     
461002 NEW CORPORATION YARD FACILITY
126,100
              
-
                     
461004 PUBLIC FACILITY AND SITE IMPROVEMENTS
43,751
                
-
                     
461008 CITYWIDE PAID PARKING EVALUATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
125,000
              
-
                     
461009 DOWNTOWN PARKING TECHNOLOGY
130,119
              
-
                     
462205 TRAIN QUIET ZONE
393,727
              
25,000
                
462250 BERMUDA DRIVE BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
-
                     
-
                     
462897 PARK CITYWIDE PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT - PUBLIC W
30,000
                
15,000
                
463004 CITYWIDE STREET LIGHTS
203,682
              
-
                     
463231 CITYWIDE SIDEWALK REPAIR PROGRAM
311,449
              
-
                     
465006 PARKING LOT REFURBISHMENT AT POPLAR CREEK GOLF COURSE
136,511
              
-
                     
465166 EAST 3RD AVENUE BICYCLE BRIDGE MAINTENANCE
100,000
              
-
                     
465167 PEDESTRIAN MALL STREETSCAPE DESIGN
83,313
                
-
                     
467001 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE I
68,090
                
-
                     
467002 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION FY 2018-19
204,915
              
-
                     
467003 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION FY 2017-18
584,821
              
-
                     
467007 SAN MATEO DRIVE SUSTAINABLE STREETS PROJECT
336,634
              
-
                     
467008 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE II
2,686,076
           
-
                     
467009 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE III
-
                     
2,000,000
           
468005 STORM SYSTEM DREDGING
200,224
              
-
                     
468007 COLUMBIA DRIVE AND CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD STORM DRAIN CHANN
691,735
              
1,350,000
           
468202 NORTH SHOREVIEW FLOOD IMPROVEMENTS (CONSTRUCTION)
22,497
                
-
                     
469031 ADA COMPLIANCE AND TRANSITION PLANNING
49,260
                
35,000
                
469997 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
-
                     
-
                     
46C002 CITYWIDE SOIL STABILIZATION PROGRAM
-
                     
150,000
              
46C003 GREEN FLEET CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE
-
                     
100,000
              
46F001 DOWNTOWN PARKING GARAGE PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
7,777
                  
-
                     
252
689 of 763

--- page 690 ---
General Fund
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
2,969,350
$             
(1,064,150)
$            
1,050,850
$             
1,600,755
$             
5,250,000
$             
4,250,000
$             
2,750,000
$             
2,750,000
$             
22,250,000
$             
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
5,000,000
                 
5,250,000
$             
4,250,000
$             
2,750,000
$             
2,750,000
$             
27,250,000
$             
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
600,000
$                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
4,950,000
                 
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
275,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
275,000
                    
450,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
450,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
250,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
66,500
                    
155,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
221,500
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
25,000
                      
1,750,000
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,750,000
                 
15,000
                    
15,000
                    
15,000
                    
15,000
                    
75,000
                      
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
2,000,000
                 
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,350,000
                 
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
35,000
                    
35,000
                    
35,000
                    
35,000
                    
175,000
                    
1,800,000
               
900,000
                  
200,000
                  
830,000
                  
3,730,000
                 
150,000
                  
150,000
                  
150,000
                  
150,000
                  
750,000
                    
200,000
                  
200,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
500,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
253
690 of 763

--- page 691 ---
General Fund
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
46F002 PARK RESTROOM REFURBISHMENT - PHASE IV
304,527
              
-
                     
46F003 CORPORATION YARD MISCELLANEOUS IMPROVEMENTS
100,000
              
-
                     
46F005 EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR PAINTING - CENTRAL PARK GARAGE
-
                     
-
                     
46F011 KING AND JOINVILLE CHANGING ROOM IMPROVEMENTS
249,351
              
-
                     
46F013 CORPORATION YARD UNDERGROUND TANK REPLACEMENT
617,000
              
-
                     
46F015 PARK RESTROOM PHASE V
-
                     
750,000
              
46F016 MAIN LIBRARY PAINTING
50,000
                
400,000
              
46F019 SHOREVIEW PARK PICKLEBALL COURTS
380,000
              
-
                     
46F020 WASHINGTON PARK BASKETBALL COURT
300,000
              
-
                     
46F022 TRANSACTION COUNTER SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS
-
                     
-
                     
46F023 SHOREVIEW BASKETBALL COURT RESURFACING
-
                     
-
                     
46F025 PARKING FACILITY STRUCTURAL REPAIRS
-
                     
-
                     
46F028 LAKESHORE RECREATION CENTER ADA ENTRY
-
                     
50,000
                
46F030 CITYWIDE FACILITIES CONDITION ASSESSMENT
-
                     
100,000
              
46F033 BERESFORD BASKETBALL COURT RESURFACE
-
                     
-
                     
46F034 LOS PRADOS COURT LIGHTING IMPROVEMENTS
-
                     
120,000
              
46F035 ELEVATOR MODERNIZATION - CENTRAL GARAGE
-
                     
500,000
              
46R009 GRAMMERCY DRIVE RETAINING WALL
205,945
              
50,000
                
513000 POLICE RADIOS - HAND HELD AND MOBILE
-
                     
-
                     
610011 BOREL PARK DEVELOPMENT
507,244
              
-
                     
610014 CITYWIDE PARK FENCING AND STRUCTURES
-
                     
-
                     
610027 CENTRAL PARK
36,849
                
-
                     
610037 SUGARLOAF TRAIL REPAIR
38,180
                
-
                     
618280 GOLF COURSE UPGRADES FY 2018-19 (GOLF SUB-FUND)
215,423
              
-
                     
665100 MARINA LIBRARY STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS
1,750,000
           
(1,292,000)
         
Total Recommended Project Budgets
20,887,908
$       
10,153,000
$       
Ending Fund Balance
872,350
$            
2,969,350
$         
254
691 of 763

--- page 692 ---
General Fund
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
1,000,000
               
1,000,000
               
2,000,000
                 
150,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
150,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
750,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
400,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
80,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
80,000
                      
450,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
450,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
700,095
                  
1,000,000
               
1,700,095
                 
400,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
450,000
                    
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
500,000
                    
-
                          
180,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
180,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
120,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
500,000
                    
2,300,000
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
2,350,000
                 
662,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
662,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
400,000
                  
400,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
800,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
(1,292,000)
                
9,283,500
$             
2,135,000
$             
2,200,095
$             
3,130,000
$             
26,901,595
$             
(1,064,150)
$            
1,050,850
$             
1,600,755
$             
1,220,755
$             
255
692 of 763

--- page 693 ---
2% Hotel Tax
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
(1,363,829)
$         
13,862
$               
Revenue
833,000
$              
1,000,000
$          
Expenditures
OPERATING EXPENDITURES
136,166
$              
138,889
$             
DEBT SERVICE
720,000
                
838,000
               
Total Expenditures
856,166
$              
976,889
$             
Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
460039 FIRE STATION #25 ACCESS - ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS / HIGHWAY 92
49,143
$                
-
$                     
Total Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
49,143
$                
-
$                     
Transfer In From General Fund
1,450,000
$           
-
$                     
Ending Fund Balance
13,862
$                
36,973
$               
256
693 of 763

--- page 694 ---
2% Hotel Tax
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
36,973
$                  
201,306
$                
507,807
$                
817,076
$                
1,167,000
$             
1,333,000
$             
1,359,660
$             
1,386,853
$             
6,246,513
$               
141,667
$                
144,500
$                
147,390
$                
150,338
$                
722,786
$                  
861,000
                  
882,000
                  
903,000
                  
927,000
                  
4,411,000
                 
1,002,667
$             
1,026,500
$             
1,050,390
$             
1,077,338
$             
5,133,786
$               
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                          
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                          
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                          
201,306
$                
507,806
$                
817,076
$                
1,126,591
$             
257
694 of 763

--- page 695 ---
Gas Tax
PROJECT #
DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
1,080,836
$         
(564,570)
$           
Revenue
INTEREST EARNINGS
12,000
$              
12,000
$              
STATE GAS TAX - 2105
638,092
              
693,937
              
STATE GAS TAX - 2107
764,392
              
833,510
              
STATE GAS TAX - 2107.5
10,000
                
10,000
                
STATE GAS TAX - 2106
398,000
              
433,079
              
GAS TAX IN LIEU OF PROP 42
907,739
              
1,047,922
           
Total Revenue
2,730,223
$         
3,030,448
$         
Transfer Out to General Fund
1,747,500
$         
1,747,500
$         
Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
462227 US 101 / HIGHWAY 92 INTERCHANGE AREA IMPROVEMENTS SHORT-TERM
28,434
$              
-
$                   
462228 US 101 / HIGHWAY 92 DIRECT CONNECTOR LONG-TERM
26,244
                
-
                     
462250 BERMUDA DRIVE BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
732,000
              
420,000
              
463535 US 101 AND PENINSULA AVENUE INTERCHANGE PROJECT
65,393
                
-
                     
465162 CITYWIDE BICYCLE PARKING
28,228
                
-
                     
465631 TRAFFIC CONTROLLER CABINETS
97,831
                
-
                     
467008 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE II
1,200,000
           
-
                     
467009 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE III
450,000
              
100,000
              
469997 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
-
                     
-
                     
Total Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
2,628,129
$         
520,000
$            
Ending Fund Balance
(564,570)
$           
198,378
$            
258
695 of 763

--- page 696 ---
Gas Tax
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
198,378
$                
11,495
$                  
5,984
$                    
73,073
$                  
12,000
$                  
12,000
$                  
12,000
$                  
12,000
$                  
60,000
$                    
707,816
                  
721,972
                  
736,411
                  
751,140
                  
3,611,276
                 
850,180
                  
867,184
                  
884,527
                  
902,218
                  
4,337,620
                 
10,000
                    
10,000
                    
10,000
                    
10,000
                    
50,000
                      
441,741
                  
450,575
                  
459,587
                  
468,779
                  
2,253,761
                 
1,068,880
               
1,090,258
               
1,112,063
               
1,134,304
               
5,453,428
                 
3,090,617
$             
3,151,989
$             
3,214,589
$             
3,278,441
$             
15,766,084
$             
1,747,500
$             
1,747,500
$             
1,747,500
$             
1,747,500
$             
8,737,500
$               
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
520,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
940,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
10,000
                    
10,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
20,000
                      
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
100,000
                    
1,000,000
               
1,400,000
               
1,400,000
               
1,400,000
               
5,200,000
                 
1,530,000
$             
1,410,000
$             
1,400,000
$             
1,400,000
$             
6,260,000
$               
11,495
$                  
5,984
$                    
73,073
$                  
204,014
$                
259
696 of 763

--- page 697 ---
Measure A
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
7,644,694
$        
1,528,082
$        
Revenue
2,904,621
$        
2,991,760
$        
Recommended Project Budgets
462004 CITYWIDE BRIDGE MAINTENANCE
410,028
$           
455,000
$           
462227 US 101 / HIGHWAY 92 INTERCHANGE AREA IMPROVEMENTS SHORT-TERM
15,000
               
-
                     
462249 HILLSDALE CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENTS
299,168
             
-
                     
462250 BERMUDA DRIVE BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
390,037
             
160,000
             
462337 19TH AVENUE TWO-WAY STREET CONVERSTION
(747)
                   
747
                    
463004 CITYWIDE STREET LIGHTS
354,964
             
-
                     
463337 PARROTT DRIVE AND ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS INTERSECTION RECONSTRUCTION
648
                    
-
                     
463338 NORFOLK STREET AND FASHION ISLAND BOULEVARD INTERSECTION RECONSTRUCTION
391,741
             
-
                     
463535 US 101 AND PENINSULA AVENUE INTERCHANGE PROJECT
603,697
             
-
                     
465130 TRAFFIC SIGNAL MASTER PLAN
12,147
               
-
                     
465157 HILLSDALE BOULEVARD AND US 101 BRIDGE OVERCROSSING CONSTRUCTION
38,697
               
-
                     
465333 CITYWIDE TRAFFIC SIGNAL RETIMING
71,880
               
-
                     
465432 EL CAMINO REAL LEFT-TURN POCKET - TILTON AVENUE AND BALDWIN AVENUE
69,084
               
-
                     
465631 TRAFFIC CONTROLLER CABINETS
100,000
             
-
                     
466607 CITYWIDE SIGN INVENTORY AND REPLACEMENT
333,339
             
-
                     
467008 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE II
3,294,538
          
-
                     
467009 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE III
450,000
             
1,300,000
          
467010 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION - ONE BAY AREA GRANT 2 (OBAG 2) VARIOUS LOCATIONS
477,820
             
-
                     
46F001 DOWNTOWN PARKING GARAGE PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
-
                     
560,000
             
46M003 TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT PEDESTRIAN ACCESS STUDY
(9,353)
                
9,353
                 
46M004 28TH AVENUE GAP CLOSURE
17,000
               
-
                     
46R001 HILLSDALE BOULEVARD AND ALAMEDA DE LAS PULGAS SIGNAL
430,000
             
-
                     
46R002 42ND AVENUE AND PACIFIC BOULEVARD SIGNAL IMPROVEMENTS
48,498
               
-
                     
46R003 DOWNTOWN STREET NAME SIGNS UPGRADE
140,000
             
-
                     
46R004 TRAFFIC SIGNAL VIDEO DETECTION REPLACEMENT
300,000
             
-
                     
46R010 25TH AVENUE UNDERGROUNDING - PHASE II
236,426
             
-
                     
46R011 HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECT DESIGN PACKAGE
452,000
             
-
                     
46R014 COMPLETE STREETS PLAN
94,621
               
-
                     
46R016 101/92 MULTI-MODAL (CLASS IV BIKE LANE)
-
                     
-
                     
46R018 HILLSDALE BIKE/PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE FEASIBILITY STUDY
-
                     
15,000
               
46R019 CITYWIDE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL PROGRAM
-
                     
140,000
             
46R021 DOWNTOWN CIRCULATION STUDY
-
                     
200,000
             
469997 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
-
                     
-
                     
Total Recommended Project Budgets
9,021,233
$        
2,840,100
$        
Ending Fund Balance
1,528,082
$        
1,679,742
$        
260
697 of 763

--- page 698 ---
Measure A
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
1,679,742
$            
1,535,799
$            
91,626
$                 
884,439
$               
3,081,512
$            
3,173,958
$            
3,269,177
$            
3,367,252
$            
15,883,658
$             
400,000
$               
2,220,000
$            
100,000
$               
100,000
$               
3,275,000
$               
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
160,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
320,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
747
                          
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
700,000
                 
700,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
1,400,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
25,000
                   
25,000
                   
25,000
                   
25,000
                   
100,000
                    
45,000
                   
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
45,000
                      
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
150,000
                 
150,000
                 
150,000
                 
450,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
1,300,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
560,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
9,353
                       
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
400,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
400,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
55,455
                   
83,131
                   
61,364
                   
-
                         
199,950
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
15,000
                      
140,000
                 
140,000
                 
140,000
                 
-
                         
560,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
200,000
                    
1,300,000
              
1,300,000
              
2,000,000
              
2,000,000
              
6,600,000
                 
3,225,455
$            
4,618,131
$            
2,476,364
$            
2,275,000
$            
15,435,050
$             
1,535,799
$            
91,626
$                 
884,439
$               
1,976,691
$            
261
698 of 763

--- page 699 ---
Measure S
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
6,817,613
$         
2,376,071
$         
Revenue
SALES TAX - MEASURE S
7,179,000
$         
7,314,000
$         
GRANT
160,000
              
-
                      
Total Revenue
7,339,000
$         
7,314,000
$         
Operating Expenditures
2,038,666
$         
2,135,342
$         
Transfer Out to Street and Flood Control Projects Bond Fund
2,692,830
$         
2,691,887
$         
Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
462226 NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
925,002
$            
-
$                    
462250 BERMUDA DRIVE BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
-
                      
250,000
              
467772 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE II
775,729
              
-
                      
467773 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE III
1,599,420
           
800,000
              
468007 COLUMBIA DRIVE AND CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD STORM DRAIN CHANNEL
1,250,000
           
-
                      
469997 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
-
                      
-
                      
46F002 PARK RESTROOM REFURBISHMENT - PHASE IV
478,000
              
-
                      
46F011 KING AND JOINVILLE CHANGING ROOM IMPROVEMENTS
215,000
              
-
                      
46F024 GATEWAY PARK PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE IMPROVEMENTS
560,000
              
-
                      
46F027 POLICE DEPARTMENT ROOF DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
-
                      
1,000,000
           
46W002 STORMWATER SYSTEM MANAGEMENT AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
250,000
              
400,000
              
511000 RADIO DISPATCH CONSOLES
194,000
              
-
                      
512000 EXTERNAL RADIO INFRASTRUCTURE
-
                      
900,000
              
610027 CENTRAL PARK
462,864
              
-
                      
610055 SYNTHETIC FIELD REPLACEMENT
-
                      
500,000
              
Total Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
6,710,015
$         
3,850,000
$         
Transfer Out to General Fund
339,032
$            
339,032
$            
Additional Capacity
-
$                    
-
$                    
Ending Fund Balance
2,376,071
$         
673,811
$            
262
699 of 763

--- page 700 ---
Measure S
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
673,811
$                
1,181,286
$             
410,121
$                
356,994
$                
7,576,000
$             
7,867,000
$             
8,153,000
$             
8,433,000
$             
39,343,000
$             
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
7,576,000
$             
7,867,000
$             
8,153,000
$             
8,433,000
$             
39,343,000
$             
2,199,402
$             
2,265,384
$             
2,333,346
$             
2,403,346
$             
11,336,821
$             
2,480,091
$             
2,483,749
$             
2,483,749
$             
2,500,000
$             
12,639,476
$             
250,000
$                
250,000
$                
250,000
$                
250,000
$                
1,000,000
$               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
250,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
800,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,600,000
                 
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
800,000
                  
800,000
                  
800,000
                  
2,400,000
                 
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,000,000
                 
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
400,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
900,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
1,000,000
               
500,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
2,000,000
                 
2,050,000
$             
1,550,000
$             
1,050,000
$             
1,050,000
$             
9,550,000
$               
339,032
$                
339,032
$                
339,032
$                
339,032
$                
1,695,158
$               
-
$                        
2,000,000
$             
2,000,000
$             
2,000,000
$             
6,000,000
$               
1,181,286
$             
410,121
$                
356,994
$                
497,616
$                
263
700 of 763

--- page 701 ---
Measure W
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
2,517,834
$         
742,105
$            
Revenue
SALES TAX - MEASURE W
1,000,000
$         
1,000,000
$         
Total Revenue
1,000,000
$         
1,000,000
$         
Recommended Project Budgets
462250 BERMUDA DRIVE BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
-
$                   
-
$                   
467008 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE II
700,000
              
-
                     
467772 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE II
775,729
              
-
                     
467773 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE III
1,300,000
           
700,000
              
469997 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
-
                     
-
                     
46R017 DOWNTOWN GRADE SEPARATION STUDY
-
                     
100,000
              
Total Recommended Project Budgets
2,775,729
$         
800,000
$            
Ending Fund Balance
742,105
$            
942,105
$            
264
701 of 763

--- page 702 ---
Measure W
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
942,105
$                
42,105
$                  
42,105
$                  
42,105
$                  
1,000,000
$             
1,000,000
$             
1,000,000
$             
1,000,000
$             
5,000,000
$               
1,000,000
$             
1,000,000
$             
1,000,000
$             
1,000,000
$             
5,000,000
$               
1,200,000
$             
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
1,200,000
$               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
700,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,400,000
                 
-
                          
1,000,000
               
1,000,000
               
1,000,000
               
3,000,000
                 
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
100,000
                    
1,900,000
$             
1,000,000
$             
1,000,000
$             
1,000,000
$             
5,700,000
$               
42,105
$                  
42,105
$                  
42,105
$                  
42,105
$                  
265
702 of 763

--- page 703 ---
Parking In-Lieu
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
5,865,562
$         
5,499,905
$         
Revenue
350,000
$            
-
$                   
Recommended Project Budgets
460632 DOWNTOWN REDEVELOPMENT SITE PARKING GARAGE
515,658
$            
-
$                   
461007 NEW DOWNTOWN GARAGE
200,000
              
-
                     
46F025 PARKING FACILITY STRUCTURAL REPAIRS
-
                     
3,200,000
           
Total Recommended Project Budgets
715,658
$            
3,200,000
$         
Ending Fund Balance
5,499,905
$         
2,299,905
$         
Due to a recent change in state law, the City's ability to assess parking in-lieu fees has been taken away. As such the 2023-28 CIP reflects 
the use of the remaining resources.
266
703 of 763

--- page 704 ---
Parking In-Lieu
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
2,299,905
$             
1,299,905
$             
299,905
$                
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
1,000,000
               
1,000,000
               
299,905
                  
-
                          
5,499,905
                 
1,000,000
$             
1,000,000
$             
299,905
$                
-
$                        
5,499,905
$               
1,299,905
$             
299,905
$                
-
$                        
-
$                        
267
704 of 763

--- page 705 ---
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
12,126,319
$       
(2,297,100)
$       
Revenue
INTEREST EARNINGS
182,000
$            
187,000
$            
PARKS AND RECREATION TAX AND FEES
-
                      
10,780,136
         
Total Revenue
182,000
$            
10,967,136
$       
Operating Expenditures
16,390
$              
16,882
$              
Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
46F036 KING POOL ASSESSMENT AND IMPROVEMENTS
-
$                    
100,000
$            
46F037 JOINVILLE POOL ASSESSMENT AND IMPROVEMENTS
-
                      
100,000
              
610012 LAURELWOOD AND SUGARLOAF OPEN SPACE
57,685
                
-
                      
610017 CITYWIDE PARK PLAY AREA UPGRADE
5,645,748
           
-
                      
610023 SPORTS FIELDS CONVERSION - SYNTHETIC TURF
178,157
              
500,000
              
610027 CENTRAL PARK
7,922,783
           
2,000,000
           
610030 PARK SITE AMENITIES
7,449
                  
-
                      
610035 CITYWIDE PARK SPECIAL FACILITIES UPGRADE
8,189
                  
-
                      
610036 RECREATION FACILITIES STRATEGIC PLAN
74,173
                
-
                      
610038 SKATE PLAZA UPDATES
400,000
              
-
                      
610060 PARKS IRRIGATION CONTROLLER UPGRADE
-
                      
150,000
              
612917 PARK RENOVATION SHOREVIEW PARK MASTER PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION
42,845
                
-
                      
618278 GOLF COURSE - WELL DRILLING
252,000
              
200,000
              
Total Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
14,589,029
$       
3,050,000
$         
Ending Fund Balance
(2,297,100)
$       
5,603,154
$         
268
705 of 763

--- page 706 ---
Parks and Recreation Tax and Fees
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
5,603,154
$             
14,920,002
$           
8,193,088
$             
6,102,632.82
$        
187,000
$                
187,000
$                
187,000
$                
187,000
$                
935,000
$                  
19,672,068
             
1,228,650
               
1,740,460
               
1,000,000
               
34,421,314
               
19,859,068
$           
1,415,650
$             
1,927,460
$             
1,187,000
$             
35,356,314
$             
17,220
$                  
17,564
$                  
17,915
$                  
18,274
$                  
87,855
$                    
3,000,000
$             
3,000,000
$             
-
$                        
-
$                        
6,100,000
$               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
100,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
3,375,000
               
1,625,000
               
2,000,000
               
2,000,000
               
9,000,000
                 
1,000,000
               
500,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
2,000,000
                 
3,000,000
               
3,000,000
               
2,000,000
               
-
                          
10,000,000
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
150,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
300,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
200,000
                    
10,525,000
$           
8,125,000
$             
4,000,000
$             
2,000,000
$             
27,700,000
$             
14,920,002
$           
8,193,088
$             
6,102,633
$             
5,271,359
$             
269
706 of 763

--- page 707 ---
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
2,166,192
$        
479,657
$           
Revenue
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION
2,293,553
$        
2,614,190
$        
INTEREST EARNINGS
15,000
               
17,000
               
Total Revenue
2,308,553
$        
2,631,190
$        
Transfer Out to Capital Program Fund
467772 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE II
1,995,088
$        
-
$                   
467773 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE III
2,000,000
          
2,000,000
          
469997 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PROGRAM
-
                     
-
                     
Total Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
3,995,088
$        
2,000,000
$        
Ending Fund Balance
479,657
$           
1,110,847
$        
270
707 of 763

--- page 708 ---
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
1,110,847
$                    
1,320,463
$                    
1,410,857
$                    
1,584,453.18
$               
2,692,616
$                    
2,773,394
$                    
2,856,596
$                    
2,942,294
$                    
13,879,090
$                  
17,000
                           
17,000
                           
17,000
                           
17,000
                           
85,000
                           
2,709,616
$                    
2,790,394
$                    
2,873,596
$                    
2,959,294
$                    
13,964,090
$                  
-
$                               
-
$                               
-
$                               
-
$                               
-
$                               
2,100,000
                      
-
                                 
-
                                 
-
                                 
4,100,000
                      
400,000
                         
2,700,000
                      
2,700,000
                      
2,700,000
                      
8,500,000
                      
2,500,000
$                    
2,700,000
$                    
2,700,000
$                    
2,700,000
$                    
12,600,000
$                  
1,320,463
$                    
1,410,857
$                    
1,584,453
$                    
1,843,747
$                    
271
708 of 763

--- page 709 ---
Sewer
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
109,975,918
$     
191,623,947
$   
Revenue
CAPITAL - FOSTER CITY
2,734,243
$         
2,844,706
$       
CAPITAL - CRYSTAL SPRINGS
815,235
              
736,502
            
CAPITAL - COUNTY OF SM
324,394
              
236,148
            
CAPITAL - HILLSBOROUGH
1,948,998
           
1,948,998
         
IMPACT FEES
100,000
              
-
                   
SEWER CAPACITY CHARGE
250,000
              
250,000
            
INTEREST/GAIN ON INVESTMENT
984,000
              
1,012,000
         
MISC. DISCHARGE FEES
66,653
                
66,653
              
WIFIA LOANS
219,232,065
       
-
                   
SEWER BOND PROCEEDS
137,000,000
       
-
                   
SEWER CHARGE-BELMONT
200,000
              
204,000
            
SEWER CHARGE-COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
24,000
                
24,480
              
SEWER CHARGE-CRYSTAL SPRINGS
350,000
              
357,000
            
SEWER CHARGE-FLORES GARDEN
70,000
                
71,400
              
SEWER CHARGE-FOSTER CITY
2,500,000
           
2,550,000
         
SEWER CHARGE-HILLSBOROUGH
900,000
              
850,000
            
SEWER CHARGE-MISC
25,000
                
25,500
              
SEWER CHARGE-PEN GOLF
17,000
                
17,340
              
SEWER SERVICE FEE-CITY OF SAN MATEO
73,576,734
         
75,784,036
       
SEWER SERVICE/CONNECT FEES
150,000
              
-
                   
Total Revenue
441,268,322
$     
86,978,763
$     
Operating Expenses
53,855,374
$       
56,548,403
$     
Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
461002 NEW CORPORATION YARD FACILITY
126,800
$            
-
$                 
469916 COLLECTION SYSTEM SCADA
292,752
              
160,000
            
469922 KINGRIDGE SEWER
432,601
              
-
                   
469933 ROOT FOAMING
1,454,383
           
400,000
            
469981 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT - SEWER PROJECTS
16,100,879
         
-
                   
469988 EAST SAN MATEO LIFT STATION
6,869,426
           
11,675,000
       
46F013 CORPORATION YARD UNDERGROUND TANK REPLACEMENT
78,000
                
-
                   
46S003 BASINS 2 AND 3 COLLECTION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS
50,891,535
         
855,000
            
46S005 BASIN 4 COLLECTION SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS
18,369,836
         
-
                   
46S090 CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) SEWER FLOW MONITORING AND REPORTING
351,743
              
90,000
              
46S091 CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) ANNUAL CITYWIDE SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION
23,071,314
         
11,700,000
       
46S093 CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION (CCTV) INSPECTION PROGRAM
1,807,506
           
770,000
            
46S095 LARGE DIAMETER CLEANING AND CONDITION ASSESSMENT
489,956
              
-
                   
46S101 TOTAL MAXIMUM DAILY LOAD (TMDL) ENHANCED PLANNING & INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
-
                     
1,000,000
         
46S190 SANITARY SEWER FLOW MONITORING & REPORTING
-
                     
-
                   
46S191 ANNUAL SANITARY SEWER REHABILITATION
-
                     
-
                   
46S192 SANITARY SEWER PUMP STATION UPGRADES
-
                     
-
                   
46S193 SANITARY SEWER CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION (CCTV) INSPECTION PROGRAM
-
                     
-
                   
46T003 WWTP AND FLOW MANAGEMENT UPGRADE AND EXPANSION
175,186,586
       
11,210,000
       
46T009 WWTP IMMEDIATE ACTION PROJECTS PACKAGE II
941,808
              
-
                   
46T010 WWTP IMMEDIATE ACTION PROJECTS PACKAGE III
6,237,924
           
-
                   
46T090 CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) WWTP ANNUAL MAJOR COMPONENTS
3,061,870
           
3,500,000
         
46T190 WWTP ANNUAL REPAIRS
-
                     
-
                   
Total Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
305,764,919
$     
41,360,000
$     
Ending Fund Balance
191,623,947
$     
180,694,307
$   
272
709 of 763

--- page 710 ---
Sewer
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
180,694,307
$        
179,884,686
$        
200,638,987
$        
203,091,845
$        
3,005,883
$            
868,311
$               
-
$                       
-
$                       
6,718,900
$               
264,811
                 
84,789
                   
-
                         
-
                         
1,086,102
                 
14,766
                   
4,728
                     
-
                         
-
                         
255,642
                    
1,948,998
              
1,948,998
              
1,948,998
              
1,948,998
              
9,744,990
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
250,000
                 
1,250,000
                 
1,032,240
              
1,052,885
              
1,073,942
              
1,095,421
              
5,266,489
                 
67,986
                   
69,346
                   
70,733
                   
72,147
                   
346,865
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
204,000
                 
204,000
                 
204,000
                 
204,000
                 
1,020,000
                 
24,970
                   
25,469
                   
25,978
                   
26,498
                   
127,395
                    
364,140
                 
371,423
                 
378,851
                 
386,428
                 
1,857,842
                 
71,400
                   
71,400
                   
71,400
                   
71,400
                   
357,000
                    
2,601,000
              
2,653,020
              
2,706,080
              
2,760,202
              
13,270,302
               
867,000
                 
884,340
                 
902,027
                 
920,067
                 
4,423,434
                 
25,500
                   
25,500
                   
25,500
                   
25,500
                   
127,500
                    
17,340
                   
17,340
                   
17,340
                   
17,340
                   
86,700
                      
77,299,717
            
78,845,711
            
80,422,625
            
82,031,078
            
394,383,167
             
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
88,059,750
$          
87,377,259
$          
88,097,475
$          
89,809,080
$          
440,322,328
$           
57,679,371
$          
58,832,958
$          
60,009,618
$          
61,209,810
$          
294,280,160
$           
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
160,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
400,000
                 
400,000
                 
400,000
                 
400,000
                 
2,000,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
11,675,000
               
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
855,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
95,000
                   
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
185,000
                    
11,000,000
            
4,890,000
              
-
                         
-
                         
27,590,000
               
765,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
1,535,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
2,500,000
              
2,500,000
              
2,500,000
              
2,500,000
              
11,000,000
               
-
                         
-
                         
125,000
                 
125,000
                 
250,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
5,120,000
              
10,350,000
            
15,470,000
               
-
                         
-
                         
13,020,000
            
3,000,000
              
16,020,000
               
-
                         
-
                         
900,000
                 
635,000
                 
1,535,000
                 
15,400,000
            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
26,610,000
               
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                           
1,030,000
              
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
4,530,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
3,570,000
              
-
                         
3,570,000
                 
31,190,000
$          
7,790,000
$            
25,635,000
$          
17,010,000
$          
122,985,000
$           
179,884,686
$        
200,638,987
$        
203,091,845
$        
214,681,115
$        
273
710 of 763

--- page 711 ---
Traffic Impact Fee
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
257,416
$            
(1,707,205)
$       
Revenue
INTEREST EARNINGS
-
$                    
32,000
$              
TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE
2,916,975
           
2,505,482
           
Total Revenue
2,916,975
$         
2,537,482
$         
Transfer Out to Capital Program Fund
460037 EL CAMINO REAL AT HIGHWAY 92 LANDSCAPRE IMPROVEMENT
549,612
$            
200,000
$            
460049 POPLAR AVENUE / HUMBOLDT STREET SIGNAL MODIFY - LEFT TURN
777,353
              
-
                      
462202 RAIL CORRIDOR GRADE SEPARATION
1,300,140
           
(1,300,140)
          
462204 HILLSDALE STATION RELOCATION PLAN
37,127
                
-
                      
462225 EL CAMINO REAL AND HIGHWAY 92 INTERCHANGE IMPROVEMENTS
479,865
              
-
                      
465157 HILLSDALE BOULEVARD AND US 101 BRIDGE OVERCROSSING CONSTRUCTION
90,000
                
-
                      
466600 CITYWIDE TRAFFIC CALMING
64,417
                
150,000
              
466601 TRAFFIC MODEL UPDATE
202,210
              
-
                      
467005 20TH AVENUE AND EL CAMINO REAL SOUTHBOUND RIGHT TURN LANE
280,872
              
-
                      
46R008 RAILROAD AVENUE WALL ENHANCEMENT
1,100,000
           
1,000,000
           
46R023 TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE UPDATE
-
                      
-
                      
46R024 BIKE SAN MATEO PROGRAM
-
                      
-
                      
Total Transfer Out to Capital Projects Fund
4,881,596
$         
49,860
$              
Ending Fund Balance
(1,707,205)
$       
780,417
$            
274
711 of 763

--- page 712 ---
Traffic Impact Fee
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
780,417
$                
3,387,279
$             
5,825,078
$             
5,541,078
$             
36,000
$                  
36,000
$                  
36,000
$                  
36,000
$                  
176,000
$                  
2,820,862
               
3,251,799
               
530,000
                  
500,000
                  
9,608,143
                 
2,856,862
$             
3,287,799
$             
566,000
$                
536,000
$                
9,784,143
$               
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
200,000
$                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
(1,300,140)
                
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
150,000
                  
150,000
                  
150,000
                  
150,000
                  
750,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,000,000
                 
100,000
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
100,000
                    
-
                          
700,000
                  
700,000
                  
700,000
                  
2,100,000
                 
250,000
$                
850,000
$                
850,000
$                
850,000
$                
2,849,860
$               
3,387,279
$             
5,825,078
$             
5,541,078
$             
5,227,078
$             
275
712 of 763

--- page 713 ---
Tree Replacement Fee
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
1,162,866
$         
935,553
$            
Revenue
150,000
$            
150,000
$            
Recommended Project Budgets
610008 TREE PLANTING - PARKS DIVISION
377,313
$            
200,000
$            
Total Recommended Project Budgets
377,313
$            
200,000
$            
Transfer In From General Fund
Ending Fund Balance
935,553
$            
885,553
$            
276
713 of 763

--- page 714 ---
Tree Replacement Fee
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
885,553
$                
935,553
$                
985,553
$                
1,035,553
$             
150,000
$                
150,000
$                
150,000
$                
150,000
$                
750,000
$                  
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
600,000
$                  
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
600,000
$                  
935,553
$                
985,553
$                
1,035,553
$             
1,085,553
$             
277
714 of 763

--- page 715 ---
Other Funding Sources
DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
GRANTS
(662,761)
$          
-
$                   
OTHER AGENCIES
(375,602)
            
-
                     
PRIVATE CONTRIBUTIONS
8,621,480
           
60,313
                
TAXES, FEES & CHARGES
29,673,582
         
801,578
              
MISCELLANEOUS
(178,538)
            
-
                     
Total Beginning Fund Balance
37,078,162
$       
861,891
$            
Revenue
GRANTS
13,641,285
$       
3,775,000
$         
OTHER AGENCIES
87,835,601
         
3,150,000
           
PRIVATE CONTRIBUTIONS
-
                     
1,484,181
           
TAXES, FEES & CHARGES
2,143,471
           
976,000
              
MISCELLANEOUS
8,099,412
           
623,885
              
Total Revenue
111,719,768
$     
10,009,066
$       
Recommended Project Budgets
GRANTS
12,978,524
$       
3,775,000
$         
OTHER AGENCIES
87,459,999
         
3,150,000
           
PRIVATE CONTRIBUTIONS
8,561,166
           
1,484,181
           
TAXES, FEES & CHARGES
31,015,475
         
976,000
              
MISCELLANEOUS
7,920,874
           
623,885
              
Total Recommended Project Budgets
147,936,039
$     
10,009,066
$       
Ending Fund Balance
GRANTS
-
$                   
-
$                   
OTHER AGENCIES
-
                     
-
                     
PRIVATE CONTRIBUTIONS
60,313
                
60,313
                
TAXES, FEES & CHARGES
801,578
              
801,578
              
MISCELLANEOUS
-
                     
-
                     
Total Ending Fund Balance
861,891
$            
861,891
$            
278
715 of 763

--- page 716 ---
Other Funding Sources
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
60,313
                    
60,313
                    
60,313
                    
60,313
                    
801,578
                  
801,578
                  
801,578
                  
801,578
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
861,891
$                
861,891
$                
861,891
$                
861,891
$                
8,914,545
$             
1,241,819
$             
4,288,636
$             
300,000
$                
32,161,285
$             
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
90,985,601
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
1,484,181
                 
875,000
                  
750,000
                  
750,000
                  
18,750,000
             
24,244,471
               
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
9,123,297
                 
9,889,545
$             
2,091,819
$             
5,138,636
$             
19,150,000
$           
157,998,835
$           
8,914,545
$             
1,241,819
$             
4,288,636
$             
300,000
$                
31,498,524
$             
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
90,609,999
               
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
10,045,347
               
875,000
                  
750,000
                  
750,000
                  
18,750,000
             
53,116,475
               
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
8,944,760
                 
9,889,545
$             
2,091,819
$             
5,138,636
$             
19,150,000
$           
194,215,105
$           
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
60,313
                    
60,313
                    
60,313
                    
60,313
                    
801,578
                  
801,578
                  
801,578
                  
801,578
                  
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
861,891
$                
861,891
$                
861,891
$                
861,891
$                
279
716 of 763

--- page 717 ---
Grants
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
460059 TRASH CAPTURE AT POPLAR AVENUE AND GOLF COURSE
(32,061)
$            
-
$                   
462250 BERMUDA DRIVE BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
(3,500)
                
-
                     
467010 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION - ONE BAY AREA GRANT 2 (OBAG 2) VARIOUS LOCATIONS
(21,500)
              
-
                     
610011 BOREL PARK DEVELOPMENT
(605,700)
            
-
                     
Total Beginning Fund Balance
(662,761)
$          
-
$                   
Revenue
13,641,285
$      
3,775,000
$        
Recommended Project Budgets
310416 HOUSING LAND PURCHASE NEW
650,000
$           
-
$                   
310520 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT (CDBG) COMMUNITY FACILITIES
43,969
               
-
                     
310521 MINOR HOME REPAIR
215,107
             
110,000
             
460059 TRASH CAPTURE AT POPLAR AVENUE AND GOLF COURSE
330,000
             
-
                     
461009 DOWNTOWN PARKING TECHNOLOGY
255,009
             
-
                     
461214 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT (CDBG) PROJECTS
417,493
             
500,000
             
462225 EL CAMINO REAL AND HIGHWAY 92 INTERCHANGE IMPROVEMENTS
5,865,000
          
-
                     
462250 BERMUDA DRIVE BRIDGE REPLACEMENT
4,967
                 
-
                     
466600 CITYWIDE TRAFFIC CALMING
72,000
               
-
                     
467010 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION - ONE BAY AREA GRANT 2 (OBAG 2) VARIOUS LOCATIONS
1,593,000
          
-
                     
46M001 RAILROAD CROSSING IMPROVEMENTS
176,250
             
-
                     
46R014 COMPLETE STREETS PLAN
490,882
             
-
                     
46R016 101/92 MULTI-MODAL (CLASS IV BIKE LANE)
-
                     
255,000
             
46R017 DOWNTOWN GRADE SEPARATION STUDY
-
                     
1,000,000
          
46R018 HILLSDALE BIKE/PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE FEASIBILITY STUDY
-
                     
150,000
             
46R022 DELAWARE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL CORRIDOR
-
                     
260,000
             
610011 BOREL PARK DEVELOPMENT
673,000
             
-
                     
610017 CITYWIDE PARK PLAY AREA UPGRADE
441,848
             
-
                     
665100 MARINA LIBRARY STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS
1,750,000
          
1,500,000
          
Total Recommended Project Budgets
12,978,524
$      
3,775,000
$        
Ending Fund Balance
-
$                   
-
$                   
280
717 of 763

--- page 718 ---
Grants
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
8,914,545
$             
1,241,819
$             
4,288,636
$             
300,000
$                
18,520,000
$             
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                          
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
110,000
                  
110,000
                  
-
                         
-
                         
330,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
300,000
                  
300,000
                  
300,000
                  
300,000
                  
1,700,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
6,550,000
               
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
6,550,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
554,545
                  
831,819
                  
3,988,636
               
5,630,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
1,000,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
150,000
                    
1,400,000
               
-
                         
-
                         
1,660,000
                 
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
1,500,000
                 
8,914,545
$             
1,241,819
$             
4,288,636
$             
300,000
$                
18,520,000
$             
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
281
718 of 763

--- page 719 ---
Other Agencies
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
460063 ENERGY EFFICIENT GRANT PROJECTS
15,019
$              
-
$                   
465510 28TH AVENUE BIKE BOULEVARD
(323,976)
            
-
                     
46M001 RAILROAD CROSSING IMPROVEMENTS
(66,645)
              
-
                     
Total Beginning Fund Balance
(375,602)
$          
-
$                   
Revenue
87,835,601
$       
3,150,000
$         
Recommended Project Budgets
460037 EL CAMINO REAL AT HIGHWAY 92 LANDSCAPRE IMPROVEMENT
1,100,000
$         
-
$                   
460063 ENERGY EFFICIENT GRANT PROJECTS
15,019
                
-
                     
462202 RAIL CORRIDOR GRADE SEPARATION
1,608
                  
-
                     
462225 EL CAMINO REAL AND HIGHWAY 92 INTERCHANGE IMPROVEMENTS
192,724
              
-
                     
465157 HILLSDALE BOULEVARD AND US 101 BRIDGE OVERCROSSING CONSTRUCTION
46,489
                
-
                     
467001 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE I
250,000
              
-
                     
469981 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT - SEWER PROJECTS
3,029,644
           
-
                     
46M001 RAILROAD CROSSING IMPROVEMENTS
1,566,125
           
500,000
              
46M004 28TH AVENUE GAP CLOSURE
153,000
              
-
                     
46R010 25TH AVENUE UNDERGROUNDING - PHASE II
-
                     
2,650,000
           
46T003 WWTP AND FLOW MANAGEMENT UPGRADE AND EXPANSION
76,497,406
         
-
                     
46T009 WWTP IMMEDIATE ACTION PROJECTS PACKAGE II
341,104
              
-
                     
46T010 WWTP IMMEDIATE ACTION PROJECTS PACKAGE III
2,860,621
           
-
                     
46T090 CLEAN WATER PROGRAM (CWP) WWTP ANNUAL MAJOR COMPONENTS
1,406,258
           
-
                     
Total Recommended Project Budgets
87,459,999
$       
3,150,000
$         
Ending Fund Balance
-
$                   
-
$                   
282
719 of 763

--- page 720 ---
Other Agencies
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
3,150,000
$               
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
500,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
2,650,000
                 
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
3,150,000
$               
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
283
720 of 763

--- page 721 ---
Private Contributions
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
202020 CIP UNALLOCATED FUNDS
4,925,496
$        
-
$                   
310600 CHILD CARE FACILITIES
10,721
               
-
                     
461110 DOWNTOWN TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION
191,445
             
-
                     
462249 HILLSDALE CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENTS
48,868
               
-
                     
465159 SIDEWALK STUDY - HILLSDALE BOULEVARD NEAR CLEARVIEW WAY
32,895
               
-
                     
466606 TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS - EL CAMINO REAL / CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD
17,537
               
-
                     
466608 EAST 3RD AVENUE / NORFOLK STREET INTERSECTION RECONSTRUCTION
235,000
             
-
                     
Total Beginning Fund Balance
5,461,962
$        
(3,099,205)
$       
Revenue
-
$                   
1,484,181
$        
Recommended Project Budgets
310330 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES
501,649
$           
990,000
$           
310416 HOUSING LAND PURCHASE NEW
4,000,000
          
-
                     
310600 CHILD CARE FACILITIES
3,820,239
          
-
                     
313134 EMERGENCY TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE
(18,971)
              
18,971
               
461110 DOWNTOWN TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION
146,445
             
-
                     
462249 HILLSDALE CORRIDOR IMPROVEMENTS
75,743
               
-
                     
463231 CITYWIDE SIDEWALK REPAIR PROGRAM
125,839
             
-
                     
463338 NORFOLK STREET AND FASHION ISLAND BOULEVARD INTERSECTION RECONSTRUCTION
-
                     
-
                     
465159 SIDEWALK STUDY - HILLSDALE BOULEVARD NEAR CLEARVIEW WAY
32,895
               
-
                     
466606 TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS - EL CAMINO REAL / CRYSTAL SPRINGS ROAD
17,537
               
-
                     
466608 EAST 3RD AVENUE / NORFOLK STREET INTERSECTION RECONSTRUCTION
235,000
             
-
                     
467001 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE I
(12,210)
              
12,210
               
467008 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE II
(363,000)
            
363,000
             
46R020 DOWNTOWN TRAFFIC SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
-
                     
100,000
             
Total Recommended Project Budgets
8,561,166
$        
1,484,181
$        
Ending Fund Balance
(3,099,205)
$       
(3,099,205)
$       
284
721 of 763

--- page 722 ---
Private Contributions
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
(3,099,205)
$           
(3,099,205)
$           
(3,099,205)
$           
(3,099,205)
$           
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
1,484,181
$               
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
990,000
$                  
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
18,971
                      
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
12,210
                      
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
363,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
100,000
                    
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
1,484,181
$               
(3,099,205)
$           
(3,099,205)
$           
(3,099,205)
$           
(3,099,205)
$           
285
722 of 763

--- page 723 ---
Taxes, Fees, and Charges
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
202020 CIP UNALLOCATED FUNDS
17,997,827
$      
-
$                   
210001 PEG PROJECT (PUBLIC EDUCATION GOVERNMENT CATV ACCESS)
1,258,929
          
-
                     
Total Beginning Fund Balance
19,256,757
$      
801,578
$           
Revenue
12,560,296
$      
976,000
$           
Recommended Project Budgets
210001 PEG PROJECT (PUBLIC EDUCATION GOVERNMENT CATV ACCESS)
-
$                   
200,000
$           
310007 SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN PLAN UPDATE
457,351.66
        
-
                     
310026 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT SERVICES IMPROVEMENT - ELECTRONIC AND DIGITAL
1,763,747
          
-
                     
460059 TRASH CAPTURE AT POPLAR AVENUE AND GOLF COURSE
1,253,194
          
-
                     
460062 TRASH CAPTURE AT POPLAR AVENUE AND MONTE DIABLO AVENUE
750,000
             
-
                     
466601 TRAFFIC MODEL UPDATE
61,101
               
-
                     
467001 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE I
539,546
             
-
                     
467008 CITYWIDE STREET REHABILITATION PACKAGE II
466,079
             
-
                     
467770 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION FY 2018-19
583,591
             
-
                     
467771 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE I
6,878,779
          
-
                     
467772 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE II
654,101
             
-
                     
467773 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE III
1,650,000
          
-
                     
468202 NORTH SHOREVIEW FLOOD IMPROVEMENTS (CONSTRUCTION)
4,469,379
          
-
                     
46C001 SMALL TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES
1,650,000
          
750,000
             
46C004 DEVELOPMENT DESIGN STANDARDS
-
                     
260,000
             
46C005 ADAPTATION PLAN
-
                     
100,000
             
46F007 CITY HALL RESTROOM IMPROVEMENTS
1,039,446
          
-
                     
46F008 CITY HALL IMPROVEMENTS
8,169,161
          
-
                     
46F013 CORPORATION YARD UNDERGROUND TANK REPLACEMENT
55,000
               
-
                     
46F014 CITY HALL PROJECTS
150,000
             
46F017 OFFICES - ACOUSTIC ATTENUATION - LIBRARY
425,000
             
(425,000)
            
46F018 PANIC BUTTONS AT COUNTERS AND OFFICES
-
                     
75,000
               
46F021 OFFICES - ACOUSTIC ATTENUATION - CITY HALL
-
                     
16,000
               
46F026 NEW CENTRAL PARK PARKING GARAGE
-
                     
-
                     
Total Recommended Project Budgets
31,015,475
$      
976,000
$           
Ending Fund Balance
801,578
$           
801,578
$           
286
723 of 763

--- page 724 ---
Taxes, Fees, and Charges
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
801,578
$               
801,578
$               
801,578
$               
801,578
$               
875,000
$               
750,000
$               
750,000
$               
18,750,000
$          
22,101,000
$             
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
-
$                       
200,000
$                  
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
750,000
                 
750,000
                 
750,000
                 
750,000
                 
3,750,000
                 
75,000
                   
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
335,000
                    
50,000
                   
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
150,000
                    
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                            
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
(425,000)
                  
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
75,000
                      
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
16,000
                      
-
                         
-
                         
-
                         
18,000,000
            
18,000,000
               
875,000
$               
750,000
$               
750,000
$               
18,750,000
$          
22,101,000
$             
801,578
$               
801,578
$               
801,578
$               
801,578
$               
287
724 of 763

--- page 725 ---
Miscellaneous
PROJECT # DESCRIPTION
2022-23 
ESTIMATED 
ACTUALS
2023-24 
PROPOSED 
BUDGET
Beginning Fund Balance
467770 CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION FY 2018-19
(338,304)
$          
-
$                   
664000 MAIN LIBRARY - CHILDREN'S SPACE ENHANCEMENTS
59,766
                
-
                     
665000 BRANCH LIBRARIES SPACE ENHANCEMENTS
100,000
              
-
                     
Total Beginning Fund Balance
(178,538)
$          
-
$                   
Revenue
8,099,412
$         
623,885
$            
Recommended Project Budgets
150001 DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM REPLACEMENT
144,113
$            
-
$                   
200001 ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING SOFTWARE
1,923,691
           
-
                     
310416 HOUSING LAND PURCHASE NEW
2,926,380
           
-
                     
460043 KING CENTER KITCHENS REMODEL
190,876
              
-
                     
460048 RELOCATE ELECTRICAL ROOM AT TRANSIT CENTER
152,200
              
-
                     
461203 LANDFILL MAINTENANCE
647,608
              
-
                     
463004 CITYWIDE STREET LIGHTS
(23,885)
              
23,885
                
46F032 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - UPS REPLACEMENT
-
                     
400,000
              
511000 RADIO DISPATCH CONSOLES
272,000
              
-
                     
610008 TREE PLANTING - PARKS DIVISION
597,255
              
200,000
              
610017 CITYWIDE PARK PLAY AREA UPGRADE
847,600
              
-
                     
665000 BRANCH LIBRARIES SPACE ENHANCEMENTS
243,035
              
-
                     
Total Recommended Project Budgets
7,920,874
$         
623,885
$            
Ending Fund Balance
-
$                   
-
$                   
288
725 of 763

--- page 726 ---
Miscellaneous
2024-25 PLAN
2025-26 PLAN
2026-27 PLAN
2027-28 PLAN
FIVE-YEAR TOTAL
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
1,023,885
$               
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
23,885
                      
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
400,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
100,000
                  
600,000
                    
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                          
-
                            
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
100,000
$                
1,023,885
$               
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
-
$                        
277
726 of 763

--- page 727 ---
Unfunded Projects
PROJECT # PROJECT NAME
 2023-24 
ESTIMATED 
COST 
 2024-25 
ESTIMATED 
COST 
 2025-26 
ESTIMATED 
COST 
 2026-27 
ESTIMATED 
COST 
 2027-28 
ESTIMATED 
COST 
 FIVE-YEAR 
TOTAL 
461002 NEW CORPORATION YARD FACILITY
-
$             
-
$                
-
$                
26,000,000
$      
-
$              
26,000,000
$      
610012 LAURELWOOD / SUGARLOAF OPEN SPACE
               -
1,370,000
        
5,070,000
        
1,775,000
          
-
                
8,215,000
          
610017 CITYWIDE PARK PLAY AREA UPGRADE
-
               
-
                  
1,000,000
        
1,000,000
          
-
                
2,000,000
          
610019 SHORELINE PARKS 
-
               
-
                  
21,000,000
      
18,900,000
        
-
                
39,900,000
        
610027 CENTRAL PARK
               -
4,500,000
        
10,000,000
      
9,000,000
          
-
                
23,500,000
        
610031 BAY MEADOWS COMMUNITY PARK
-
               
-
                  
-
                  
40,000,000
        
-
                
40,000,000
        
612917 PARK RENOVATION SHOREVIEW PARK MASTER PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION
               -
300,000
           
-
                  
1,200,000
          
-
                
1,500,000
          
TBD 16TH AVENUE DRAINAGE AREA
-
               
-
                  
-
                  
9,521,000
          
-
                
9,521,000
          
TBD 19TH AVENUE DRAINAGE AREA
-
               
-
                  
-
                  
11,972,000
        
-
                
11,972,000
        
TBD 3RD AVENUE/NORFOLK INTERSECTION PED/BIKE ACCESS IMPROVEMENT 
-
               
-
                  
-
                  
370,000
             
-
                
370,000
             
TBD ANNUAL PARKING REPAVING PROJECT
               -
561,000
           
100,000
           
-
                     
-
                
661,000
             
TBD BIO-TECH LEARNING CENTER AT MAIN LIBRARY (2ND FLOOR)
-
               
-
                  
54,247
             
-
                     
-
                
54,247
               
TBD BUSINESS LIBRARY (MAIN 2ND FLOOR)
-
               
-
                  
318,867
           
-
                     
-
                
318,867
             
TBD CITYWIDE PARK SIGNS
               -
125,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
125,000
             
TBD CONVERSION OF PERIODICAL STORAGE  AT MAIN LIBRARY (3RD FLOOR)
-
               
-
                  
670,812
           
-
                     
-
                
670,812
             
TBD DETROIT DRIVE DRAINAGE AREA
-
               
-
                  
-
                  
5,728,000
          
-
                
5,728,000
          
TBD DOWNTOWN TWINKLE LIGHT PHASE 2
               -
600,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
600,000
             
TBD DOWNTOWN TWINKLE LIGHT PHASE 3
               -
900,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
900,000
             
TBD EAST 5TH AVENUE PEDESTRIAN SCALE LIGHTING
               -
220,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
220,000
             
TBD FIRE STATION #27 IMPROVEMETNS
               -
260,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
260,000
             
TBD FIRE STATION 27 - ROOF REPLACEMENT
-
               
-
                  
-
                  
140,000
             
-
                
140,000
             
TBD FRIENDS BOOK SHOP & CAFÉ AT MAIN LIBRARY (1ST FLOOR)
-
               
-
                  
822,968
           
-
                     
-
                
822,968
             
TBD GOLF COURSE BUNKER RENOVATION
-
               
-
                  
175,000
           
-
                     
-
                
175,000
             
TBD GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE
               -
50,000
             
350,000
           
-
                     
-
                
400,000
             
TBD HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1B
               -
559,000
           
3,594,000
        
-
                     
-
                
4,153,000
          
TBD HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1C
-
               
307,000
           
1,707,000
        
-
                     
-
                
2,014,000
          
TBD HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1D
               -
247,000
           
1,615,000
        
-
                     
-
                
1,862,000
          
TBD HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1E
               -
625,613
           
4,711,868
        
-
                     
-
                
5,337,481
          
TBD HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1F
-
               
-
                  
328,000
           
1,782,243
          
-
                
2,110,243
          
TBD HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1G
-
               
-
                  
102,000
           
516,000
             
-
                
618,000
             
TBD HILLSDALE LIBRARY - ROOF REPLACEMENT
-
               
-
                  
-
                  
175,000
             
-
                
175,000
             
TBD INSTALL SECURITY CAMERAS AT SELECTED PARKS
               -
120,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
120,000
             
TBD JAPANESE GARDEN REFURBISHMENT
-
               
-
                  
150,000
           
-
                     
-
                
150,000
             
TBD JOB SEEKERS AT MAIN LIBRARY (2ND FLOOR)
-
               
-
                  
241,000
           
-
                     
-
                
241,000
             
TBD KING CENTER LARGE KITCHEN
               -
50,000
             
400,000
           
-
                     
-
                
450,000
             
TBD LAUREL CREEK DRAINAGE AREA
-
               
-
                  
-
                  
9,567,000
          
-
                
9,567,000
          
TBD LOBBY ENHANCEMENT BERESFORD / KING
-
               
185,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
185,000
             
TBD MAIN LIBRARY LOBBY IMPROVEMENTS (1ST FLOOR)
-
               
-
                  
420,746
           
-
                     
-
                
420,746
             
TBD MAIN LIBRARY TEEN LOUNGE (3RD FLOOR)
-
               
-
                  
654,935
           
-
                     
-
                
654,935
             
TBD MARINA LAGOON DREDGING
               -
1,900,000
        
10,000,000
      
1,900,000
          
1,900,000
     
15,700,000
        
TBD MONTE DIABLO AVENUE PEDESTRIAN SCALE LIGHTING
               -
300,000
           
3,000,000
        
-
                     
-
                
3,300,000
          
TBD PACIFIC BOULEVARD DRAINAGE CHANNEL REHABILITATION
               -
200,000
           
400,000
           
-
                     
-
                
600,000
             
TBD PALM AVENUE PEDESTRIAN SCALE LIGHTING
               -
300,000
           
3,000,000
        
-
                     
-
                
3,300,000
          
TBD PATHWAY REPAIRS AT VARIOUS PARKS
               -
115,000
           
135,000
           
125,000
             
-
                
375,000
             
TBD PENINSULA AVENUE BIKE CORRIDOR
               -
237,000
           
1,945,000
        
-
                     
-
                
2,182,000
          
TBD POLICE DEPARTMENT EXTERIOR - REDESIGN RAIN SCUPPER/PAINT MECH DECK
               -
80,000
             
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
80,000
               
TBD POLICE DEPARTMENT EXTERIOR - REPAINT DECK FENCING
               -
50,000
             
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
50,000
               
TBD POLICE DEPARTMENT INTERIOR WORK REORGANIZATION
               -
150,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
150,000
             
TBD REST ROOM BUILDING REPLACEMENT TRINTA
               -
350,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
350,000
             
TBD REST ROOM REFURBISHMENT PHASE 5 (LAKESHORE/SHOREVIEW)
               -
300,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
300,000
             
TBD SAN MATEO CREEK DRAINAGE AREA
-
               
-
                  
-
                  
2,620,000
          
-
                
2,620,000
          
TBD SHOREVIEW REC CENTER - ROOF REPLACEMENT
-
               
-
                  
-
                  
176,000
             
-
                
176,000
             
TBD SHOREVIEW TENNIS COURTS
               -
140,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
140,000
             
TBD STREETLIGHT MASTER PLAN
-
               
200,000
           
-
                  
-
                     
-
                
200,000
             
Total Recommended Project Budgets
-
$             
15,301,613
$    
71,966,443
$    
142,467,243
$    
1,900,000
$   
231,635,299
$    
278
727 of 763

--- page 728 ---
foo)
Ww
S
ra

{e)
oe)
N
S



--- page 729 ---
Financial Policies
Statement of Purpose
The financial integrity of our City government is of utmost 
importance. To discuss, write, and adopt a set of financial 
policies is a key element to maintaining this integrity. Our 
City has evolved with a variety of financial policies that can 
be found in many different sources, including City Council 
resolutions, budget documents, and capital improvement 
programs. The set of policies within this document, adopted 
each year with our budget, serves as a central reference 
point of the most important of our policies, which are critical 
to the continued financial health of our local government.
Written, adopted financial policies have many benefits, 
such as assisting elected officials and staff in the financial 
management of the City, saving time and energy when
discussing financial matters, engendering public 
confidence, and providing continuity over time as elected 
officials and staff members change. While these policies will 
be amended periodically, they provide the foundation and 
framework for many of the issues and decisions facing the 
City. They promote sound financial management and assist 
in the City’s stability, efficiency, and effectiveness.
The following policies are divided into ten (10) general 
categories for ease of reference. These categories include:
1. General
2. Accounting, Auditing, and Financial Reporting
3. Funding Balance and Reserve
4. Pension and Retirement Funding
5. Internal Service Fund
6. Debt
7. Revenue
8. Capital Improvement
9. Investment
10.	Operating Budget
Except as otherwise noted, all policies included in this 
document are currently adhered to.
Additionally, included at the end of this section are specific 
policy benchmarks along with their status.
General
The City will:
•
Manage its financial assets in a sound and prudent
manner.
•
Maintain and further develop programs to ensure its
long-term ability to fund core services and pay all
costs necessary to provide the level and quality of
service required by its citizens.
•
Establish and maintain investment policies that are in
accordance with State laws.
•
Follow the financial sustainability guiding principles to
provide a roadmap to guide future financial decisions.
Accounting, Auditing, and Financial 
Reporting
Accounting Standards
The City’s accounting of financial systems shall be 
maintained in accordance with Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP), standards of the 
Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), and the 
Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA).
Annual Audit
An independent certified public accounting firm will 
perform an annual audit, and its opinions will be included in 
the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report and presented 
to the City Council at a public meeting.
Financial Information
It is the policy of the City of San Mateo to provide all 
financial information in a thorough, timely fashion, and in 
a format that is easy for City Council, citizens, and City 
employees to understand and utilize.
It is the City’s goal to maintain accounting records, 
processes, and procedures in such a manner as to receive 
an unmodified audit opinion and to maintain a Certificate of 
Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting from the 
GFOA.
Funding Balance and Reserve
The City utilizes a variety of accounting funds for recording 
revenues and expenditures of the City. At the end of each 
fiscal year, budgeted/appropriated expenditure authority 
lapses, with the exception of capital project spending and 
operating expenses that have been incurred but not paid 
(encumbered). The remaining dollars left in each fund are 
unassigned and constitute available funds of the City. Fund 
balance will be reported in the following classifications:
279
729 of 763

--- page 730 ---
Financial Policies
Nonspendable Fund Balance
Amounts that are not in spendable form, such as inventory, 
prepaid amounts, long-term receivables, and those 
that legally or contractually must be kept intact, such as 
endowment corpus of revolving loan funds.
Restricted Fund Balance
Amounts that can be used only for specific purposes due to 
constitutional provisions, enabling legislation, or externally 
imposed constraints, such as restrictions imposed by 
creditors, grantors, or other governments.
Committed Fund Balance
Amounts that can only be used for specific purposes 
because of a formal action by the government’s highest 
decision-making authority. These constraints are binding 
unless removed in the same manner in which they were 
originally committed.
Assigned Fund Balance
Amounts intended for specific purposes but not restricted 
or committed. The assigned fund balance can never be in 
excess of the total fund balance less the non-spendable, 
restricted, and committed components of fund balance.
Ultimately, this is the residual fund balance for all funds 
other than General Fund.
Unassigned Fund Balance
The residual classification for the General Fund, the only 
governmental fund that can report a positive unassigned 
fund balance. Other funds might have a negative 
unassigned fund balance due to overspending restricted, 
committed, or assigned amounts.
General Fund
The General Fund reserve will be maintained in an amount 
equal to at least three months of the annual General Fund 
operating expenditure budget. This reserve is designed 
to be used in the event of significant financial emergency: 
for catastrophic events such as an earthquake, and for 
service stability to moderate the impact of economic 
cycles. City Council may, at its discretion, reserve additional 
funds above the minimum. Such additional reserves 
may be set aside for specific purposes, such as capital 
projects, for known significant future cost items, or as 
general operational reserves. As such, based on actual 
and projected General Fund revenues and expenditure 
trends, the General Fund Rainy Day Reserves, which are 
the remainder after accounting for the 25% reserve and the 
housing set- aside, will maintain a balance of $30 million. 
This amount reflects the difference between the peak of 
the Rainy Day Reserve in 2018-19 of $54 million to the 
projected trough of $24 million in 2026-27.
Enterprise Fund
The City’s Sewer Enterprise Fund will maintain reserves 
equal to four months of operating expenses.
Special Revenue Funds
The City’s Construction Services Fund will maintain 
reserves equal to twelve months of budgeted operating 
expenditures.
Pension and Retirement Funding
The City contracts with the California Public Employees' 
Retirement System for pension benefits. The City will 
make minimum annual payments for the employer share 
equal to the required Annual Required Contribution (ARC) 
established by actuarial valuation but, in any given year, no 
less than the normal cost.
The City offers a retiree health benefit to employees of
$160 per month. The City will fund the Actuarially-
Determined Contribution (ADC) established by actuarial 
valuation in an irrevocable trust. Actuarial valuations will be 
conducted on a biennial basis consistent with accounting 
standards.
Internal Service Fund
Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund
Through the use of the Vehicle/Equipment Replacement 
Fund, the City will annually budget sufficient funds to 
provide for the orderly replacement of the City’s fleet, 
vehicles, computers, radios, equipment, technology 
infrastructure, and other major capital outlay. The fund 
is supported by charges to user departments, which are 
adjusted annually based on the departments’ proportionate 
share of estimated expenses*. Sufficient reserves will be 
maintained in the Replacement Fund to provide for the 
scheduled replacement of equipment at the end of their 
useful lives.
Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund
Through the use of the Fleet and Building Maintenance 
Fund, the City will annually budget sufficient funds 
to provide for orderly fleet and building maintenance 
and repair. The fund is supported by charges to user 
departments which are adjusted annually based on the 
department’s proportionate share of estimated expenses*. 
Sufficient reserves will be maintained in the Replacement 
Fund to provide for the scheduled replacement of 
equipment at the end of their useful lives.
280
730 of 763

--- page 731 ---
Financial Policies
*Internal service funds are allocated proportionate to the expenses with
exception of the Community Development Block Grant Fund, which needs
to maintain less than 10% in indirect costs. Charges may be reduced in this
fund if necessary.
Risk Management Funds
The City maintains a Comprehensive Liability Insurance 
Fund and a Workers’ Compensation Insurance Fund for the 
purpose of property, liability, and workers’ compensation 
expenses. These funds pay insurance premiums, benefit 
and settlement payments, and administrative and operating 
expenses. The City will complete an actuarial valuation of 
these funds every other year. The Workers’ Compensation 
Fund is supported by charges to other City funds for the 
services it provides*. These annual charges for service 
shall reflect historical experience and shall be established 
to approximately equal the annual expenses of the fund. 
The Comprehensive Liability Fund is predominantly 
supported by the General Fund. Separate reserves shall 
be maintained for current and long-term general liability 
and workers’ compensation liability at a level which will 
adequately fund the City’s potential loss exposure in each 
area. The practice is to establish reserves in both funds at 
least at the marginally acceptable level as determined by 
the actuarial report.
Debt
The City is bound by a provision in State law limiting 
indebtedness for California cities to 15% of the assessed 
value of all real and personal property of the City. The 
City of San Mateo has been prudent in its use of debt to 
finance projects and major purchases. Prior to the issuance 
of any debt, the funding source for the debt service is 
identified and designated. The level of debt to which the 
City obligates itself is managed within available resources 
and represents a minimal cost to general taxpayers. 
By managing the repayment of new debt, current City 
operations are not affected.
Credit Rating
It is the City’s goal for its general obligation (GO) bonds to 
maintain a AAA rating, and for the Sewer Enterprise to
maintain a AA-/Aa2 credit rating. The factors that contribute 
to the high rating include the City’s strong financial 
management, low debt levels, budgetary and fiscal 
controls, and accountability. To support this policy, the 
City will continue to maintain its position of full financial 
disclosure and proactive fiscal planning.
Revenue
General Fund Revenue
The City will strive to develop and maintain a diversified 
and reliable revenue stream to avoid becoming overly 
dependent on any single type of revenue. Efforts will
be directed to optimize existing revenue sources while 
periodically reviewing potential new revenue sources. 
Budgeted revenues will be estimated conservatively using 
accepted standards and estimates provided by the state, 
other governmental agencies, or reliable economic
forecasters, when available. Due to the volatile nature of 
the property transfer tax, revenue is projected using a 
consistent methodology based on historical averages.
Grants
The City shall actively pursue federal, state, and other 
grant opportunities when deemed appropriate. Before 
accepting any grant, the City shall thoroughly consider 
the implications in terms of ongoing obligations that will 
be required in connection with acceptance of said grant, 
including replacement and ongoing operating costs.
Enterprise Fund Fees and Charges
The City will set user fees for its Enterprise Fund at a rate 
that fully covers direct and indirect costs of providing
the service, planned capital improvements that may be 
necessary from time to time, and maintains a debt coverage 
ratio of at least 120% of net revenues for compliance 
purposes with outstanding debt covenants.
User Service Fees
The City may impose user fees wherever appropriate. 
Such fees will recover the cost of providing the service, 
demonstrating a nexus to benefits received, including 
all direct and indirect costs, administrative overhead, 
depreciation, etc. By policy, Council may direct certain
fees to be lowered for particular purposes. Waivers of user 
fees will be presented for Council approval as appropriate. 
Certain fees are based upon market conditions and are not 
subject to the limitations of cost recovery. These fees may 
be adjusted periodically by the City Council. In general, 
fees will be reviewed no less than annually to ensure that 
full cost recovery levels are identified.
281
731 of 763

--- page 732 ---
Financial Policies
Capital Improvement
Five-Year Capital Improvement Program (CIP)
The City shall annually prepare a capital improvement 
spending program, projecting capital needs for a five-year 
period. This CIP shall be comprised of all the City’s funds. 
The City has been working toward providing a reasonable 
regular contribution from the General Fund to capital 
improvements without reducing services. The first year
of the five-year CIP will be consistent with, and adopted 
as a component of, the annual operating budget. In the 
development of the Capital Improvement Program, the 
operating costs associated with the capital project will be 
projected and considered in conjunction with the CIP.
Enterprise Fund Capital Improvements
Capital Improvements funded from the Enterprise Fund 
shall be paid for in a combination of “pay-as-you-go” 
financing and the use of long-term debt. The City shall 
periodically review its enterprise capital needs and 
establish capital spending plans that are appropriate and 
reflect a combination of debt and “pay-as-you-go,” while 
attempting to keep the enterprise service rates competitive 
with those in the surrounding area.
Investment
The Investment Advisory Committee and City Council shall 
annually review and update, or modify as appropriate, the 
City’s investment policy. The policy shall be adopted by 
resolution of the City Council based upon the City staff and 
Investment Advisory Committee’s recommendations.
Reports on the City’s investment portfolio shall be 
developed and presented to the City Council quarterly. City 
funds will be managed in a prudent and diligent manner 
with emphasis on safety, liquidity, and yield, in that order.
Operating Budget
Balanced Operating Budget
It is the City’s policy to adopt a balanced budget where 
operating revenues and available resources are equal to 
or exceed operating expenditures. Any year-end operating 
surpluses will revert to unappropriated balances for use
in maintaining reserve levels set by policy or available 
for capital projects and/or “one-time only” General Fund 
expenditures.
Budget Document
The budget document shall serve as the official financial 
plan for the City. It will serve as the policy document of the 
City Council for implementing Council goals and objectives. 
The budget shall provide staff the resources necessary to 
accomplish City Council-determined service levels.
The City has two-year business plan development 
procedures. The two-year business plan process requires 
that each department submit two one-year expenditure 
plans and revenue estimates to be provided to the City 
Council for approval. Only the first of the two-year budget 
will be adopted. The second year represents a projected 
plan which will be subject to amendment in the following 
year. In any budget cycle, to remain adaptable to changing 
economic and/or operational conditions, the City may 
choose to develop a one-year plan instead of a two-year 
budget plan.
Budget Control and Accountability
Department heads are responsible for containing 
expenditures within their budgeted appropriations as 
approved by the City Council. Subsequent to the adoption 
of the budget, all additional changes to the budget that 
have a financial impact require City Manager and City 
Council approval.
Activities of the General Fund, Special Revenue Funds, 
Debt Service Funds, Proprietary, and Capital Funds are 
included in the annual budget. The level of budgetary 
control is the department within each fund.
282
732 of 763

--- page 733 ---
Financial Policies
Policy Status
ACCOUNTING
Benchmark
The City's accounting of financial systems shall be maintained in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(GAAP), standards of the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), and the Government Finance Officers Association 
(GFOA).
Status
Met
Benchmark
It is the City’s goal to maintain accounting records, processes, and procedures in such a manner as to receive an unmodified audit 
opinion and to maintain a Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting from the GFOA.
Status
Met
RESERVE / SINKING FUND
Benchmark
The General Fund reserve will be maintained in an amount equal to at least three months of the annual General Fund operating 
expenditure budget.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The Rainy Day Reserves will maintain a balance of at least $30 million.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The City’s Sewer Enterprise Fund will maintain reserves equal to four months of operating expenses.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The City’s Construction Services Fund will maintain reserves equal to twelve months of budgeted operating expenditures.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The City will maintain Comprehensive Liability and Workers’ Compensation insurance reserves at no less than marginally 
acceptable confidence levels.
Status
Met
Benchmark
Through the use of the Vehicle and Equipment Replacement Fund, the City will annually budget sufficient funds to provide for the 
orderly replacement of the City’s fleet, vehicles, computers, radios, equipment, technology infrastructure, and other major capital 
outlay.
Status
Met 
Benchmark
Through the use of the Fleet and Building Maintenance Fund, the City will annually budget sufficient funds to provide for the 
orderly fleet and building maintenance and repair.
Status
Met 
Benchmark
A sinking fund for building component/replacement will be maintained.
Status
Annual baseline funding of $410,000 has been provided for HVAC, roofing, floor covering, and remodel projects. 
DEBT
Benchmark
It is the City’s goal for its general obligation (GO) bonds to maintain a AAA rating, and for the Sewer Enterprise to maintain a AA-/ 
Aa2 credit rating.
Status
Met. GO Bonds rated AAA by S&P. Sewer Enterprise rated Aa2 by Moody's, AA- by S&P.
283
733 of 763

--- page 734 ---
Financial Policies
REVENUE
Benchmark
Budgeted revenues will be estimated conservatively using accepted standards and estimates provided by the state, other 
governmental agencies, or reliable economic forecasters when available.
Status
Met
Benchmark
Property Transfer Tax is projected using a consistent methodology, which takes a long-term perspective to temper variance from 
year to year.
Status
Met. Property transfer tax is estimated at $8.0 million per year throughout the General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan, 
reflecting the expectation that the federal funds rate will gradually decline, and the lower interest rate environment will buoy 
the real estate market.
Benchmark
Full cost recovery for user fees will be achieved.
Status
Met. All charges for services are based on the cost of providing the services.
Benchmark
Full cost recovery for indirect costs will be achieved.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The City shall actively pursue federal, state, and other grant opportunities when deemed appropriate.
Status
Met. Continuing to assess and apply for grants with a focus on ensuring matching funds are identified, as applicable, and 
ongoing costs are considered.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
Benchmark
The City has been working toward providing a reasonable regular transfer from the General Fund to capital improvements without 
reducing services.
Status
Met. The baseline General Fund transfer is $2.66 million to fund streets, building components, and sidewalk repair.
Benchmark
Continue to use bond proceeds and other funding sources for capital projects.
Status
Met. Examples are streets and flood control, golf course, wastewater treatment plant, library, and fire station.
INVESTMENT
Benchmark
City funds will be managed in a prudent and diligent manner with emphasis on safety, liquidity, and yield; in that order.
Status
Met
OPERATING BUDGET
Benchmark
It is the City's policy to adopt a balanced budget, where operating revenues and available resources are equal to or exceed 
operating expenditures.
Status
Met
Benchmark
The City Manager shall annually prepare and present a proposed operating budget through two study sessions by no later than 
June of the prior fiscal year; and City Council will adopt said budget no later than June 30th of each year.
Status
Met
284
734 of 763

--- page 735 ---
Gann Appropriations Limit
CITY OF SAN MATEO APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023-24
 AMOUNT 
SOURCE
A
Last Year’s Limit
$
250,173,878
2022-23 Limit
B
Adjustment Factors
1.
Population
 0.997 
CA Dept. of Finance
2.
Inflation
 1.044 
CA Dept. of Finance
 1.041 
B1*B2
Total Adjustment %
 0.041 
B1*B2-1
C
Annual Adjustment
$
10,271,619
A*B
D
This Year’s Limit
$
260,445,497
A+C
E
Tax Proceeds Subject to the Limit
Property Tax
$
78,616,228
2023-24 Budget
Sales Tax
30,814,000
2023-24 Budget
Property Transfer Tax
8,000,000
2023-24 Budget
Other Tax
13,302,889
2023-24 Budget
Interest Allocation
4,804,000
2023-24 Budget
Total  
$
135,537,117
Amount Under / (Over) Limit
$
124,908,380
D-E
City of San Mateo Gann Appropriations Limit as Defined in Article XIII B of the       
California State Constitution
The voters of California, during a special election in 1979, 
approved Article XIII-B of the California State Constitution. 
Informally known as the “Gann Initiative,” Article XIII-B 
provides limits regarding the total amount of appropriations 
in any fiscal year from “the proceeds of taxes.”
In 1980, the State Legislature added Section 7900 et seq. 
to the Government Code, providing that the governing 
body of each local jurisdiction must establish, by resolution, 
an appropriations limit for the following year. The 
appropriations limit for any fiscal year was equal to the 
previous year’s limit, adjusted for population changes and 
the changes in the US Consumer Price Index (or California 
per capita personal income, if smaller). The necessary 
statistical information is provided by the California 
Department of Finance.
However, the original Article XIII-B (Proposition 4) and its 
implementing legislation were modified by Proposition 111 
and SB 88 by the voters in June 1980. The changes were 
incorporated into the fiscal year 1990-91 and fiscal year 
1991- 92 appropriations limits. Beginning with the fiscal 
year 1990- 91 appropriations limit, a city may choose annual 
adjustment factors. The adjustment factors include the 
growth in the California per capita income or the growth in 
the non- residential assessed valuation due to construction 
within the City and the population growth within the county 
or the city.
The table below provides the calculation for the 
appropriations limit for fiscal year 2023-24, as well as the 
total appropriations subject to the limit. The adjustment 
factors utilized for the fiscal year 2023-24 calculation 
include the growth in California per capita income and the 
population growth within the County of San Mateo. As the 
table demonstrates, the City’s appropriations subject to the 
limit ($135.5 million) are well below the appropriations limit 
itself ($260.4 million).
285
735 of 763

--- page 736 ---
Glossary
Appropriation
An authorization granted by the City Council to make 
expenditures and to incur obligations for specific purposes.
Audit
A review of the City’s accounts by an independent 
accounting firm to verify that the City’s financial statements 
accurately reflect the City’s financial position.
Base Budget
Estimate of the funding level, excluding limited term items, 
required to continue existing service levels during the next 
fiscal year.
Budget
A comprehensive financial plan of operation embodying an 
estimate of proposed expenditures for a given period and 
the proposed means of financing them.
Capital Acquisitions
Items of a permanent or semi-permanent nature that last 
multiple years.
Capital Improvements
A permanent major addition to the City’s real property 
assets including the design, construction, purchase, or 
major renovation of land, buildings, or facilities.  Examples 
are the installation or repair of new or existing streets, 
traffic signals, sewer lines, roads, and parks.
Capital Improvement Program (CIP)
An ongoing plan of single and multiple-year capital 
expenditures, which is updated annually.
Compensated Absences
An employee’s paid time off of work, which can consist of 
elements such as vacation time and sick leave.
Debt Service
The payment of interest and principal on borrowed funds.
Deficit
The result of an excess of expenditures over resources.
Department
A major administrative division of the City with overall 
management responsibility for an operation or a group of 
related operations within a functional area.
Depreciation
(1) Expiration in the service life of capital outlay assets
attributable to wear and tear, deterioration, action of the
physical elements, inadequacy, or obsolescence; (2) the
portion of the cost of a capital asset that is charged as an
expense during a particular period.
Division
An organizational subunit of a department which 
encompasses a substantial portion of the duties assigned 
to a department.
Encumbrance
A commitment of funds for goods or services for which the 
expenditure has not yet occurred.
Enterprise Fund
A fund established to account for operations of the City that 
are financed and operated in a manner similar to private 
business enterprises.
Expenditure
The amount of cash paid or to be paid for services 
rendered, goods received, or an asset purchased.
Fiscal Year
The twelve-month period to which the annual budget 
applies.  In San Mateo, this period of time is July 1 through 
June 30.
Full Time Equivalent (FTE)
Conversion of a position to full-time equivalent.  For 
example, one person working half time would count as 0.50 
FTE; one person working full time would count as 1.00 FTE.
Fund
A separate, independent accounting entity used to set forth 
the financial position of operations related to the specific 
purpose for which the fund was created.  Examples of funds 
used in the City of San Mateo are the General Fund, Capital 
Projects Fund, and Sewer Fund.
Fund Balance
The total dollars remaining in a fund after current 
expenditures for operations and capital improvements are 
subtracted.
General Fund
The City’s principal operating fund, which is supported by 
general taxes and fees and which can be used for any legal 
governmental purpose.
286
736 of 763

--- page 737 ---
Glossary
Grant
A contribution by a government or other organization to 
support a particular function or project.  Grants may be 
classified as either categorical or block, depending upon 
the amount of discretion allowed the recipient.
Interdepartmental Charges and Credits
A mechanism through which one program may bill another 
program (charges) and be reimbursed (credits) for the cost 
of various services provided.  Interdepartmental charges 
and credits are based on the actual, direct costs of the 
service provided.  They function as cost allocation tools, 
allowing the financial reports to more accurately reflect the 
real cost of individual programs.
Interfund Transfers
The movement of money from one fund to another to cover 
certain costs.
Internal Service Fund
A fund which is used to finance and account for goods and/
or services provided by one City department to other City 
departments on a cost-reimbursement basis.
Non-departmental
Program costs that do not relate to any one particular 
department, but represent costs of a general, City-wide 
nature.
Non-recurring Costs
One-time activities for which the expenditure should be 
budgeted only in the fiscal year in which the activity is 
undertaken.
Operating Budget
Annual appropriation of funds to support ongoing program 
costs, including employee services, maintenance, supplies, 
and equipment.
Ordinance
A formal legislative enactment by the City Council, 
which has the full force and effect of law within the City 
boundaries unless it is in conflict with any higher form of 
law, such as a state statute or constitutional provision.
Program
An activity or group of activities which is an operational 
subunit of a department and is directed toward providing 
a particular service or support function.  Each City 
department may be responsible for a number of programs.
Proprietary Fund
A term also used to describe funds that are accounted for 
on a “flow of economic resources” measurement basis and 
on a full accrual accounting basis.  Enterprise funds and 
internal service funds are classified as proprietary funds.
Reserve
Funds set aside for specific purposes.
Resolution
A special order by the City Council which requires less 
legal formality than an ordinance in terms of public notice 
prior to approval.
Resources
Total amount available for appropriation, including 
estimated revenues, beginning fund balances, and fund 
transfers.
Revenue
Income received during the fiscal year from taxes, fees, 
permits, franchises, interest, intergovernmental, and other 
sources.
Special Revenue Fund
A fund used to account for revenue sources that are 
restricted by law or administrative action to expenditures 
for specified purposes.
Structural Deficit
The permanent financial gap that results when ongoing 
revenues do not match or keep pace with ongoing 
expenditures.
287
737 of 763

--- page 738 ---
Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Personnel Changes
DEPARTMENT
DESCRIPTION
2023-24
2022-23 Adjusted Budget Total
 610.24 
Community Development
Add Principal Planner
 1.00 
Community Development
Add Deputy Building Official
 1.00 
Community Development
Reallocate Code Enforcement Officer to Senior Code Enforcement Officer
 -   
Community Development
Add Development Review Technician
 1.00 
Finance
Reallocate two (2) Accounting Assistant II to two (2) Senior Accounting Assistant
 -   
Finance
Reallocate Budget Analyst to Budget Manager
 -   
Public Works
Reallocate Administrative Assistant to Administrative Technician
 -   
Public Works
Add Traffic and Lighting Technician
 1.00 
Public Works
Add Associate Engineer
 1.00 
Public Works
Add Pump Station Mechanic II
 1.00 
Public Works
Add WWTP Operator I/II
 1.00 
Total Merit Changes
 7.00 
Total Per Diem Changes
 0.96 
2023-24 Total Positions
 618.20 
DEPARTMENT
DESCRIPTION
FUND
2023-24
City Manager
Increase funding for contribution to the Chamber of Commerce
General Fund
$ 
15,000 
Police
One-time funding for security improvements to property and evidence 
room in response to audit recommendations
General Fund
 60,400 
Police
Increase funding for Cellebrite Premium for access to digital evidence 
from iOS/Apple and android devices
General Fund
 93,000 
Police
One-time funding for staffing study
General Fund
 100,000 
Police
Increase funding for LAZ parking contract
Downtown Services Fund
 43,396 
Public Works
Increase funding for Marina lagoon maintenance expenses for algae 
harvesting and contract adjustments 
General Fund
 528,500 
Public Works
Increase fund for maintenance improvements for storm water pump 
stations to include pump replacements, instrumentation, monitoring and 
control modifications, diagnostics, and other general needs
General Fund
 80,000 
Public Works
Increase funding for cleaning and street sweeping services for the 
Downtown Kiku garage
Downtown Services Fund
 81,000 
Public Works
One-time funding for purchase of additional sweeper needed to address 
downtime associated with on-going vehicle problems and reliability
Solid Waste
 410,000 
Public Works
Increase funding for software costs associated with Maintenance 
Connection and SCADA/Wonderware
Sewer Fund
 50,000 
Public Works
Increase funding for transfer of maintenance costs for CNG cleaning skid 
maintenance from Facilities to WWTP
Sewer Fund
 78,000 
Public Works
Decrease funding for transfer of maintenance costs for CNG cleaning 
skid maintenance from Facilities to WWTP
Fleet and Building 
Maintenance
 (160,000)
Total
$ 
1,379,296 
Budget Changes
Operating Changes
288
738 of 763

--- page 739 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Martin McTaggart; Rich Lee
Subject:
FW: Item 30 -- Proposed 2023-28 Capital Improvement Program
Date:
Monday, June 5, 2023 11:14:37 AM
Attachments:
San Mateo FY24 CIP Bicycle.pdf
 
 
Patrice M. Olds, MMC
City Clerk
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
www.cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
 
From: Mark Eliot 
 
Sent: Sunday, June 4, 2023 7:33 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Item 30 -- Proposed 2023-28 Capital Improvement Program
 
Dear City Council,
 
The new Bike San Mateo Program in this year’s capital improvement budget perfectly exemplifies how the City
“invests” in bicycling.
 
At $2.1 million, it looks like a sizable commitment to build bicycle infrastructure. With the detailed budget for this
meeting we now know that the program won’t be funded until FY26 — two years from now. This program will not
build any new infrastructure this year or the next. This is a plan. It represents only a plan to build infrastructure. The
City, though, takes full credit for supporting this plan. Several Council Members have already said in prior meetings
essentially, see, we’re tripling our funding for bicycle projects in this budget. Really? Certainly not where it matters.
In reality, this new program is just kicking the proverbial can down the road once again. Projects like this show just
what a hollow promise that is.
 
The City is excellent at planning. There’s always money for new plans. In fact, this budget is full of more plans: 
there’s a new Hillsdale Bike Ped Bridge Feasibility Study, a Downtown Circulation Study, and a Downtown Grade
Separation Study. We already have a detailed plan for a Hillsdale bicycle bridge, but after a decade of delay building
it has become prohibitively expensive. The downtown study was made necessary, in part, because the City decided
to remove planned bike lanes on B St in downtown from the Bicycle Master Plan.
 
But then, the City is terrible at following through. There just never seems to money in the budget for implementing
plans. After seemingly embracing the idea of quick-build projects, the City always has an excuse for not actually
building any of them. The City says it needs apply for more new grants (which just further postpones building with
no guarantees or consequence) or it can’t reprioritize previously committed money (which it can) or it can’t use a
certain pot of discretionary money for bicycling (which it can) or it has to use a certain pot of money for only
matching grants (which it doesn’t). Meanwhile, somehow this year the City managed to appropriate $241,663 from
the General Fund that wasn’t in the budget for yet another plan: The Complete Streets North Central plan which will
study whether to remove bike lanes that are part of the Bicycle Master Plan and already installed. In other words:
going backwards. And just this week, we discovered that Bovet Rd from El Camino to Beresford had been repaved
without the separated bike lane required in the Bicycle Master Plan. So much for quick-building.
 
The FY24 budget says that “A total of $13.8 million is planned for bikeway and pedestrian walkway projects.”  I
can account for about $13.3 million by analyzing the budget document.  Please see attachment. With the funding
timelines of these projects, it seems pretty clear that the even the grant funded projects like the Fashion Island Bike
739 of 763

--- page 740 ---
Lanes and Delaware Safe Routes to Schools project will be spending their time next year on planning and design. Of
the $13+ million, the budget says “remaining $1.4 million is planned for other high priority bicycle projects” with
no funding timeline provided. This just seems like make-believe. 
 
Perhaps I’m a fool for trying to hold the City accountable for what it says and what it does, but I think you need to
know that some of us are paying attention. This is an exhausting and frustrating process where public input
obviously is not valued, but you can’t simply pretend the City is doing real substantive things when it isn’t. Some of
us won’t blindly accept that.  Bicyclists can’t ride on plans. They aren’t made safer by plans. We need the physical
infrastructure changes that matter for our safety. The City has to stop planning to do things and, instead, actually do
things.
 
Sincerely,
 
Mark Eliot
 
740 of 763

--- page 741 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Martin McTaggart
Subject:
FW: Item 30 -- Proposed 2023-28 Capital Improvement Program
Date:
Monday, June 5, 2023 11:23:39 AM
 
 
Patrice M. Olds, MMC
City Clerk
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
www.cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
 
From: Mark Eliot 
 
Sent: Monday, June 5, 2023 10:28 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Item 30 -- Proposed 2023-28 Capital Improvement Program
 
I need to correct an error in my earlier email. The repaving of Bovet Rd without separated bike lanes
runs from El Camino Real to Borel Ave.
On Jun 4, 2023, at 7:33 PM, Mark Eliot <mark@eliotlabs.org> wrote:
 
Dear City Council,
 
The new Bike San Mateo Program in this year’s capital improvement budget perfectly exemplifies
how the City “invests” in bicycling.
 
At $2.1 million, it looks like a sizable commitment to build bicycle infrastructure. With the detailed
budget for this meeting we now know that the program won’t be funded until FY26 — two years
from now. This program will not build any new infrastructure this year or the next. This is a plan. It
represents only a plan to build infrastructure. The City, though, takes full credit for supporting this
plan. Several Council Members have already said in prior meetings essentially, see, we’re tripling
our funding for bicycle projects in this budget. Really? Certainly not where it matters. In reality, this
new program is just kicking the proverbial can down the road once again. Projects like this show just
what a hollow promise that is.
 
The City is excellent at planning. There’s always money for new plans. In fact, this budget is full of
more plans:  there’s a new Hillsdale Bike Ped Bridge Feasibility Study, a Downtown Circulation
Study, and a Downtown Grade Separation Study. We already have a detailed plan for a Hillsdale
bicycle bridge, but after a decade of delay building it has become prohibitively expensive. The
downtown study was made necessary, in part, because the City decided to remove planned bike lanes
on B St in downtown from the Bicycle Master Plan.
 
But then, the City is terrible at following through. There just never seems to money in the budget for
implementing plans. After seemingly embracing the idea of quick-build projects, the City always has
an excuse for not actually building any of them. The City says it needs apply for more new grants
(which just further postpones building with no guarantees or consequence) or it can’t reprioritize
previously committed money (which it can) or it can’t use a certain pot of discretionary money for
741 of 763

--- page 742 ---
bicycling (which it can) or it has to use a certain pot of money for only matching grants (which it
doesn’t). Meanwhile, somehow this year the City managed to appropriate $241,663 from the General
Fund that wasn’t in the budget for yet another plan: The Complete Streets North Central plan which
will study whether to remove bike lanes that are part of the Bicycle Master Plan and already
installed. In other words: going backwards. And just this week, we discovered that Bovet Rd from El
Camino to Beresford had been repaved without the separated bike lane required in the Bicycle
Master Plan. So much for quick-building.
 
The FY24 budget says that “A total of $13.8 million is planned for bikeway and pedestrian walkway
projects.”  I can account for about $13.3 million by analyzing the budget document.  Please see
attachment. With the funding timelines of these projects, it seems pretty clear that the even the grant
funded projects like the Fashion Island Bike Lanes and Delaware Safe Routes to Schools project will
be spending their time next year on planning and design. Of the $13+ million, the budget says
“remaining $1.4 million is planned for other high priority bicycle projects” with no funding timeline
provided. This just seems like make-believe. 
 
Perhaps I’m a fool for trying to hold the City accountable for what it says and what it does, but I
think you need to know that some of us are paying attention. This is an exhausting and frustrating
process where public input obviously is not valued, but you can’t simply pretend the City is doing
real substantive things when it isn’t. Some of us won’t blindly accept that.  Bicyclists can’t ride on
plans. They aren’t made safer by plans. We need the physical infrastructure changes that matter for
our safety. The City has to stop planning to do things and, instead, actually do things.
 
Sincerely,
 
Mark Eliot
 
<San Mateo FY24 CIP Bicycle.pdf>
 
742 of 763

--- page 743 ---
ID Title
FY24
FY25
FY26
FY27
FY28
Total
461214 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT (CD
250,000
$    
250,000
$       
465162 CITYWIDE BICYCLE PARKING
10,000
$      
10,000
$    
20,000
$         
46R016 101/92 MULTI-MODAL (FASHION ISLAND CLASS 
255,000
$    
610,000
$    
914,950
$  
4,050,000
$ 
5,829,950
$    
46R018 HILLSDALE BIKE PED BRIDGE FEASIBILITY STUDY
165,000
$    
165,000
$       
46R019 CITYWIDE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL PROGRAM
140,000
$    
140,000
$    
140,000
$  
140,000
$    
560,000
$       
46R021 DOWNTOWN CIRCULATION STUDY
200,000
$    
200,000
$       
46R022 DELAWARE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL CORRIDO
260,000
$    
1,400,000
$ 
1,660,000
$    
46R024 BIKE SAN MATEO PROGRAM
700,000
$  
700,000
$    
700,000
$ 
2,100,000
$    
46R017 DOWNTOWN GRADE SEPARATION STUDY
1,100,000
$ 
1,100,000
$    
 per CIP "….planned for other high priority bicycle projects"
1,400,000
$    
13,284,950
$  
Unfuned Projects in the FY24 CIP
TBD 3RD AVE/NORFOLK INTERSECTION PED/BIKE ACCESS IMPROVEMENT
370000
370,000
TBD HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1B
559,000
3,594,000
4,153,000
TBD HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1C
307,000
1,707,000
2,014,000
TBD HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1D
247,000
1,615,000
1,862,000
TBD HIGH PRIORITY BICYCLE PROJECTS PACKAGE 1E
625,613
4,711,868
5,337,481
Really, what is this all about?
743 of 763

--- page 744 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  31
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 25-3112
File ID: 23-7480
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 05, 2023 
SUBJECT:
2023-2031 Housing Element Study Session
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction to staff on options to update the City’s 2023-2031 Housing Element in response to the California 
Department of Housing and Community Development’s (HCD’s) second review letter dated March 27, 2023.
BACKGROUND:
Since 1969, California has required that all local governments (cities and counties) adequately plan to meet the housing 
needs of their community. California’s local governments meet this requirement by adopting housing elements, which are 
updated every eight years. Housing elements are one of several "chapters,” or elements, of a city’s General Plan, and are 
required by the State. Housing elements are the only element of a General Plan subject to State requirements for content 
and they must be certified by the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD). State funding 
programs for transportation, infrastructure, and housing often require or consider a local jurisdiction’s compliance with 
housing element law. In addition, non-compliance with housing element requirements and targets could limit a local 
jurisdiction’s ability to impose local zoning and land use controls over housing development. 
 
For the upcoming eight-year housing element cycle (2023-2031), HCD has identified the nine-county Bay Area region’s 
housing need to be 441,176 units, with this number broken down into four income categories, from very low-income 
households (which includes extremely low) to above moderate (market rate) housing. This Regional Housing Needs 
Determination (RHND) is based on population projections produced by the California Department of Finance (DOF), as well 
as adjustments that incorporate the region’s existing housing need. 
 
The City of San Mateo’s Regional Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA) for this housing cycle is 7,015 new housing units 
distributed across the four income groups: very low, low, moderate and above moderate. The City’s Adopted Housing 
Element identifies how the City can accommodate its RHNA of 7,015 new homes over the next eight years, plus a buffer, 
and establishes goals, policies, and programs to help address the City’s current and future housing needs. 
 
Preparation of the City’s Housing Element initially started in January 2021, with a robust community engagement process 
consisting of community meetings, stakeholder meetings, pop-up events, and surveys. The Draft Housing Element was 
published from April 6, 2022 through May 6, 2022 for a 30-day Public Comment Period and was reviewed by the Planning 
Commission on April 26, 2022 and May 3, 2022. On May 23, 2022, the City Council reviewed the Draft Housing Element 
and provided staff direction to revise several programs and use the staff-recommended approach to the sites inventory. 
Staff revised the Draft based on Council’s direction and on July 1, 2022, the Draft 2023-2031 Housing Element was 
submitted to HCD. HCD completed their first 90-day review and provided a comment letter on September 28, 2022. 
 
Based on input and direction from Council, City staff revised the Housing Element in response to HCD’s first 90-day review 
744 of 763

--- page 745 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
letter. The revised draft Housing Element document was published from December 30, 2022 to January 10, 2023 for the 
mandated 7-day public comment period. The revised draft was reviewed by the Planning Commission at a public hearing 
on January 12, 2023 and adopted by the City Council on January 24, 2023, to affirmatively further fair housing and 
accommodate the City’s 7,015-unit Regional Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA) for the 2023-2031 Housing Element cycle. 
The content of the Adopted 2023-2031 Housing Element was structured for consistency with the requirements set forth in 
State law. In addition to responding to requirements of State law, the Adopted Housing Element also demonstrated the 
City’s strategy to meeting its housing needs as determined by local growth projections through identification of sites as 
well as policies and programs that promote housing development in the City. The Adopted Housing Element was 
submitted to the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) on January 27, 2023. HCD 
completed their review of the City’s Adopted Housing Element and provided written comments to the City on March 27, 
2023 (Attachment 1).
 
On April 17, 2023, City Council held a study session to provide an overview of HCD’s second review letter, receive public 
comment, and provide direction to staff on Housing Element updates and revisions to address HCD’s comments. At that 
study session, Council expressed support for updating the Housing Element to:

Be more explicit in the City’s commitment to complete the General Plan Update process in 2024 and put a ballot 
measure before the voters at the November 2024 election to update Measure Y, and include a commitment to:
o
Create capacity for at least 10,000 new housing units, and 
o
Increase base densities in the study areas by at least 25 du/ac and height limits by at least two 
stories

Eliminate the Pre-Application requirement for Housing Projects
o
Retain neighborhood meeting and Planning Commission study session, but include with formal 
Planning Application
 
In addition, staff was directed to further evaluate the following Housing Element policy/program updates and bring them 
back for Council consideration at a subsequent study session:

Update the Sites Inventory to address HCD comments and explore opportunities to add capacity; 

Evaluate options to allow for new affordable housing on quasi-public sites (e.g. church sites);

Evaluate the feasibility of creating an affordable housing overlay;

Explore increasing the size of housing projects that could be approved administratively; and 

Evaluate parking standard reductions/modifications.
 
DISCUSSION:
Sites Inventory Capacity
The HCD review letter includes several comments regarding the sites inventory, including that the Housing Element does 
not include a complete site analysis, that the adequacy of sites and zoning have not established a realistic capacity, that 
the suitability of nonvacant sites has not been sufficiently demonstrated, and that more analysis is needed to show that 
the sites inventory meets AFFH requirements.  In addition, HCD expressed concern about the realistic capacity estimates 
for two of the large sites (over 10 acres) on the sites inventory, including that the City’s inclusionary standard should be 
used to estimate affordable unit capacity.
 
Bridgepointe and Hillsdale Sites
Based on HCD’s comments, staff has re-evaluated the sites inventory capacity, with significant changes to the Bridgepointe 
Shopping Center and Hillsdale Mall sites. The site at Bridgepointe has been reduced from 22.4 acres to only contemplate 
development of the parking lot at the east end of the shopping center, with a total acreage of approximately 8.5 acres. 
With this reduction, the total capacity has been reduced from 672 units to 340 units (80% of base density). This reduced 
site approach focuses on the potential to develop new housing over a portion of underutilized surface parking while 
maintaining the existing commercial uses in the shopping center. For the Hillsdale sites, the total capacity is being 
maintained at 1,200 units in accordance with the correspondence provided by the property ownership, but the percentage 
of the units identified as affordable has been reduced to 15% to align with the City’s inclusionary policy. This results in a 
reduction in affordable units estimated on the site from 559 units to 180 units.
 
745 of 763

--- page 746 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Updated Sites Inventory Methodology and Capacity
In addition to the large sites adjustments, the realistic capacity calculation has been standardized depending on the rating 
assigned to each site. Sites with a score of 5 have been assigned a realistic capacity of 100%, a score of 4 have been 
assigned a realistic capacity of 80% and sites with a score of 3 have been assigned a realistic capacity of 50%. Per guidance 
provided by HCD to jurisdictions that have been certified, the ADU calculation has been updated to include data from 
years 2020, 2021, and 2022, which results in annual average of 60 ADUs per year. This has increased the total capacity to 
480 ADUs during the eight-year planning period of the Housing Element.
 
Each site – or potential aggregation of sites – was analyzed to discern the likelihood and feasibility of development during 
the period 2023-2031. Factors such as underperforming or vacant uses, owner or developer interest, age and size of 
current improvements, site size, and site constraints were reviewed. Depending on these considerations, sites were 
ranked from 1 to 5, with 1 being a site unlikely to develop/redevelop within the planning period, and 5 being highly likely 
to develop/redevelop during the period. A site was given a ranking of 3 based on its size and having the appropriate zoning 
designation, a ranking of 4 was assigned to sites that were very likely to develop such as underutilized sites and proximity 
to transit and a site was assigned a ranking of 5 if they are in the pipeline or have developer interest. 
 
With the updates to the sites inventory, there is a potential shortfall in the very low and moderate income categories. 
However, based on recent discussions with HCD, staff is exploring strategies to make some adjustments to the affordability 
calculations on sites that fall between 0.5 and 10 acres. With these adjustments, there appears to be a feasible path for 
the sites inventory to be able to accommodate the City’s RHNA. This approach would also rely on the significant additional 
housing capacity that would be realized with the adoption of the General Plan Update and Measure Y ballot measure in 
2024.  This significant amount of additional capacity, currently over 21,000 units of housing capacity with the General 
Plan’s Draft Land Use Map, along with the updated sites inventory methodology, appears to be a feasible path forward.  
Staff is still working on developing this strategy and additional information will be provided at the meeting.
 
Housing Element Policy Updates 
 
At the April 17, 2023 study session, Council directed staff to return with additional research on several items. The Housing 
Element team has made progress in several areas and the status for each of the items is described below.
 
1.
Facilitating Affordable Housing on Quasi-Public Sites
Creating an affordable housing overlay for quasi-public sites, such as churches, was previously discussed as an 
option to expand the City’s affordable housing capacity. Affordable housing overlays across the region were 
examined and are considered an important tool to allow for and incentivize the creation of housing.  However, a 
recent published appellate decision regarding the city of Clovis established that the base density of the underlying 
zone and the overlay must both meet certain minimum statutory density requirements for the developed units on 
the site to count towards the RHNA.  Thus, adding housing capacity by utilizing an overlay without changing the 
underlying zoning and base density is unlikely to be supported by HCD. Even though quasi-public sites offer 
opportunities for affordable housing production, it appears challenging to utilize these sites to add housing 
capacity on the sites inventory. Additional information on this topic will be presented at the meeting.
 
2.
Administrative Approval Threshold
Action by the Zoning Administrator (“ZA”) to approve a housing development administratively, without one or 
more public hearings, has been identified by HCD as an effective tool in fostering development of both missing 
middle and other forms of multi-family housing development. Jurisdictions around the region have been increasing 
their use of an administrative approval process and/or expanding the size of housing projects that can be 
approved administratively. In this model, the ZA, rather than the Planning Commission, would be the primary 
decision maker. A public notification and an appeals process would remain; however, approvals at the staff level 
would streamline the review process and could save a project time and money.  This streamlining is often 
established or expanded coincident with the adoption of multi-family objective development standards (ODS). 
Because State housing law requires any development with at least two units to be evaluated on the basis of ODS, 
rather than subjective standards, jurisdictions are finding that action by the ZA is a more appropriate venue than 
746 of 763

--- page 747 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the Planning Commission when considering conformance with ODS. 
 
San Mateo currently allows for ZA action on projects of fewer than six residential dwelling units or 10,000 square 
feet of non-residential floor areas. To address HCD comments and support increased housing production, staff 
recommends increasing the threshold to projects with up to 25 dwelling units citywide.  Additionally, the Council 
could consider further increasing the threshold for projects located within ½ mile of transit. Staff also recommends 
this be adopted for implementation coincident with the adoption of ODS for multi-family and mixed-use 
development with a housing component.
 
3.
Parking Standard Reductions/Modifications 
Parking minimums, and parking standards more generally, are a key policy tool that can influence housing 
production because of the cost to develop and the amount of land that is used to accommodate parking.  It is 
estimated that each parking space adds a minimum of $20,000-$40,000 in development costs, which increase the 
price of housing and thus significantly constrains housing production.  HCD’s review letter notes that the City 
needs to include specific implementation actions to reduce parking requirements for housing projects. 
 
To address this issue, staff reviewed best practices in other jurisdictions (See Attachment 2) and recommends 
updating the Housing Element to reduce parking requirements for housing projects to align with State density 
bonus law parking minimums, as provided in the table below. 
 
Unit Type
Existing Requirements
State Density Bonus Law Requirement
Studio 
1.0
1 space
1 Bedroom
1.8
1 space
2 Bedrooms
2.0
1.5 spaces
3+ Bedrooms
2.2
1.5 spaces
 
For projects within ½ mile of a major transit station, consistent with AB2097, Staff proposes removing all parking 
minimums. Additional information and options for addressing the issue will be provided at the meeting.
 
Staff is seeking Council input and direction on options to respond to HCD’s comments, based on the additional research 
presented by staff. Addressing HCD’s comments will bring the City closer to submitting a Housing Element that both the 
State and the City agree is substantially compliant. 
 
Next Steps 
Like most other cities in the Bay Area, the City of San Mateo is continuing to make progress on its Housing Element and is 
going through an iterative process with HCD. It is common for cities to receive several rounds of comment letters from 
HCD, and the majority of the cities in the Bay Area are still working toward HCD certification, which provides a range of 
benefits such as eligibility for important State funding.   
 
The Housing Element review process is very technical and involves complex land use, statutory and legal issues, and with a 
number of new requirements in this cycle, the City recognizes that HCD has a significant number of cities it has to certify. 
City staff are continuing to request additional meetings with HCD leadership and are looking forward to productive 
discussions to better understand their direction, with the goal of mutually agreed upon compliance with State law and 
planning for future housing development in the City.  
 
Staff is proposing the following next steps and anticipated timeline for approval and certification of the Housing Element:
 

June/July 2023 – Update the Housing Element in response to HCD second review letter comments and City Council 
direction 

June/July 2023 – Iterative review and communication with HCD staff

July 2023 – Publish revised Housing Element for public review/comments (minimum of seven days)
747 of 763

--- page 748 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

August 2023 – Submit revised Housing Element to HCD for third review.

August/September 2023 – HCD review period (60 days)

October 2023 – Update Housing Element in response to HCD Comments

October/November/December 2023 – Public hearings before the Planning Commission for a recommendation on 
the Housing Element and the City Council to re-adopt Housing Element, provided HCD has indicated the revised 
version is ready for certification. 
o
If further revisions are needed, a 4th submittal to HCD will be required.

December 2023 – Submit the re-adopted Housing Element to HCD for certification. 
 
Once the Adopted Housing Element has been updated to address all HCD comments, public hearings before the Planning 
Commission and City Council will be scheduled for final review and re-submittal to HCD. At the time that HCD reviews and 
finds the Housing Element to be in substantial compliance, the Housing Element will be presented to City Council for re-
adoption. After the Council re-adopts the Housing Element, it will be submitted to HCD for certification.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no direct budgetary impacts to taking this action. The preparation of the Housing Element has been accounted 
for in the City’s budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 21065). The adoption of the 2023-2031 Housing Element on 
January 27, 2023 was considered exempt under the “common sense” exemption under state CEQA Guidelines Section 
15061(b)(3) because the project involved policies, programs, and actions to meet the City’s RHNA and AFFH goals that 
would not have any potential for causing a significant effect on the environment and identifying programs and actions that 
could remove constraints and promote affordable housing development. Because the City did not have to rezone any sites 
or make any physical improvements to adopt the Housing Element, it could be seen with certainty that there was no 
possibility that the Housing Element would have a significant effect on the environment. A notice of exemption for the 
2023-2031 Housing Element was filed with the County of San Mateo Clerk-Recorder’s office on February 23, 2023.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - HCD Comment letter on 2023-2031 Housing Element
Att 2 – Parking Ratios by Jurisdiction
Att 3 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia, Housing Manager
emurillogarcia@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7223
748 of 763

--- page 749 ---
STATE OF CALIFORNIA - BUSINESS, CONSUMER SERVICES AND HOUSING AGENCY 
GAVIN NEWSOM, Governor 
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 
DIVISION OF HOUSING POLICY DEVELOPMENT 
2020 W. El Camino Avenue, Suite 500 
Sacramento, CA 95833 
(916) 263-2911 / FAX (916) 263-7453 
www.hcd.ca.gov 
 
 
 
 
March 27, 2023 
 
 
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA, 94403 
 
Dear Drew Corbet: 
 
RE: City of San Mateo’s 6th Cycle (2023-2031) Adopted Housing Element  
 
Thank you for submitting the City of San Mateo’s (City) housing element adopted 
January 24, 2023 and received for review on January 30, 2023. Pursuant to 
Government Code section 65585, subdivision (h), the California Department of Housing 
and Community Development (HCD) is reporting the results of its review. Our review 
was facilitated by a conversation on March 8, 2023 with Zachary Dahl, Eloiza Murillo-
Garcia, and consultant Diana Elrod. In addition, HCD considered comments from 
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo, Christopher Conway, Andrew Wofford, and 
David Kellogg pursuant to Government Code section 65585, subdivision (c). 
 
The adopted housing element addresses many statutory requirements described in 
HCD’s September 28, 2022 review; however, additional revisions are necessary to fully 
comply with State Housing Element Law (Article 10.6 of the Gov. Code), see enclosed 
Appendix. 
 
For your information, pursuant to Assembly Bill 1398 (Chapter 358, Statutes of 2021), if 
a local government fails to adopt a compliant housing element within 120 days of the 
statutory deadline (January 31, 2023), then any rezoning to make prior identified sites 
available or accommodate the regional housing needs allocation (RHNA) shall be 
completed no later than one year from the statutory deadline pursuant to Government 
Code sections 65583, subdivision (c) and 65583.2, subdivision (c). Please be aware, if 
the City fails to adopt a compliant housing element within one year from the statutory 
deadline, the element cannot be found in substantial compliance until these rezones are 
completed. 
 
Public participation in the development, adoption and implementation of the housing 
element is essential to effective housing planning. During the housing element revision 
process, the City must continue to engage the community, including organizations that 
represent lower-income and special needs households, by making information regularly 
available while considering and incorporating comments where appropriate. Please be 
749 of 763

--- page 750 ---
Drew Corbett, City Manager 
Page 2 
 
 
 
aware, any revisions to the element must be posted on the local government’s website 
and to email a link to all individuals and organizations that have previously requested 
notices relating to the local government’s housing element at least seven days before 
submitting to HCD. 
 
Several federal, state, and regional funding programs consider housing element 
compliance as an eligibility or ranking criteria. For example, the CalTrans Senate Bill 
(SB) 1 Sustainable Communities grant; the Strategic Growth Council and HCD’s 
Affordable Housing and Sustainable Communities programs; and HCD’s Permanent 
Local Housing Allocation consider housing element compliance and/or annual reporting 
requirements pursuant to Government Code section 65400. With a compliant housing 
element, the City will meet housing element requirements for these and other funding 
sources. 
 
For your information, some general plan element updates are triggered by housing 
element adoption. HCD reminds the City to consider timing provisions and welcomes 
the opportunity to provide assistance. For information, please see the Technical 
Advisories issued by the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research at: 
https://www.opr.ca.gov/planning/general-plan/guidelines.html. 
 
HCD appreciates the dedication that the housing element team provided throughout the 
course of the housing element review. We are committed to assist the City in 
addressing all statutory requirements of State Housing Element Law. If you have any 
questions or need additional technical assistance, please contact Hillary Prasad, of our 
staff, at Hillary.Prasad@hcd.ca.gov. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Paul McDougall 
Senior Program Manager
750 of 763

--- page 751 ---
City of San Mateo’s 6th Cycle Adopted Housing Element  
Page 1 
March 27, 2023 
 
 
APPENDIX 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
The following changes are necessary to bring the City’s housing element into compliance with 
Article 10.6 of the Government Code. Accompanying each recommended change, we cite the 
supporting section of the Government Code. 
 
Housing element technical assistance information is available on HCD’s website at 
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/planning-and-community-development/hcd-memos. Among other 
resources, the housing element section contains HCD’s latest technical assistance tool, 
Building Blocks for Effective Housing Elements (Building Blocks), available at 
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/planning-and-community-development/housing-elements/building-
blocks and includes the Government Code addressing State Housing Element Law and other 
resources. 
 
 
A. Housing Needs, Resources, and Constraints 
 
1. Affirmatively further[ing] fair housing in accordance with Chapter 15 (commencing with 
Section 8899.50) of Division 1 of Title 2…shall include an assessment of fair housing in 
the jurisdiction. (Gov. Code, § 65583, subd. (c)(10)(A).) 
 
Integration and Segregation: The element still must include a regional analysis of 
integration and segregation for persons with disabilities and familial status, comparing 
the City to the region. 
 
Disproportionate Housing Needs including Displacement: The element should analyze 
information on housing condition patterns within the City. This could include an analysis 
on concentrations of substandard housing geographically within the City. 
 
Sites Inventory: The element must include a locational analysis (neighborhood by 
neighborhood) of the regional housing needs allocation (RHNA) by income group and 
evaluate the impact of identified sites in each area. The element states that there are no 
units in the sites inventory located in Racially Concentrated Areas of Affluence (RCAA), 
but it should analyze whether conditions are exacerbated and promote strong housing 
mobility within the City’s programs to affirmatively further fair housing. In addition, the 
element stated no sites are identified in areas with high overcrowding and cost burden. 
The element should include an analysis of whether this affects the existing patterns and 
whether sites exacerbate conditions and identify further program actions that will be 
taken to promote equitable quality of life throughout the community (e.g., anti-
displacement and place-based community revitalization strategies).  
 
2. Include an analysis of population and employment trends and documentation of 
projections and a quantification of the locality's existing and projected needs for all 
income levels, including extremely low-income households. (Gov. Code, § 65583, subd. 
(a)(1).) 
 
751 of 763

--- page 752 ---
City of San Mateo’s 6th Cycle Adopted Housing Element  
Page 2 
March 27, 2023 
 
 
Extremely Low-Income Households (ELI): While the element was revised to include the 
number of existing ELI households, it must include the number of projected ELI 
households. In addition, the element must analyze ELI housing needs including 
characteristics magnitude, housing types, resources, strategies, and gaps to address 
the identified need. Please see HCD’s prior review for additional information. 
 
3. An inventory of land suitable and available for residential development, including vacant 
sites and sites having realistic and demonstrated potential for redevelopment during the 
planning period to meet the locality’s housing need for a designated income level, and 
an analysis of the relationship of zoning and public facilities and services to these sites. 
(Gov. Code, § 65583, subd. (a)(3).) 
 
Progress in Meeting the RHNA: While the element was revised to address affordability 
of the number of new units built since June 30, 2022, it must also address the 
availability of projects in the planning period, including the status of Projects 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 
and 8. The element should describe the status, any barriers to development, and other 
relevant factors to demonstrate their availability in the planning period. Barriers may 
include remediation of the gas station, projects including multiple owners, site cleanup, 
as well as Site 6 allowing building permit issuance within 15 years. 
 
Realistic Capacity: The majority of sites still assume 100 percent maximum density as 
realistic capacity. The analysis must demonstrate that all projects in those zones 
developed at maximum density to support assumptions. In addition, the calculation of 
residential capacity must also account for the likelihood of residential development in 
zoning where 100 percent nonresidential uses are allowed. The analysis should be 
based on factors such as development trends including nonresidential, performance 
standards requiring residential uses or other relevant factors such as enhanced policies 
and programs. For example, the element could analyze all development activity in these 
nonresidential zones, how often residential development occurs and adjust residential 
capacity calculations, policies, and programs accordingly. 
 
Small and Large Sites: While owner interest is helpful in determining the feasibility of 
development, the element must add additional information regarding likelihood of 
development during the planning period for the Hillsdale and Bridgepointe sites 
including feasibility during the planning period, whether the mall and other uses will 
remain, and timing of development, including affordable, on these large sites. The 
element could provide examples of other large site development with similar uses to 
support assumptions. In addition, to support assumptions for development of units 
affordable to lower-income households on small sites, the element should provide 
additional information on previous lot consolidations including zoning designations, 
number and size of parcels, and affordability of projects that developed on sites smaller 
than half an acre. 
 
Suitability of Nonvacant Sites: While the element was revised to add some additional 
information for the nonvacant sites, it should connect the existing uses and feasibility of 
development to the project examples described. In addition, the element should 
describe the likelihood that existing uses will discontinue during the planning period, 
whether there are current leases, or other factors of whether the uses will impede 
752 of 763

--- page 753 ---
City of San Mateo’s 6th Cycle Adopted Housing Element  
Page 3 
March 27, 2023 
 
 
residential development. The element should also analyze the feasibility of developing 
gas stations and car wash sites during the planning period. The element states that 
each parcel was ranked for likelihood of development, but it should describe the criteria 
used for ranking and how they were applied to feasibility of development. 
 
In addition, as noted in the housing element, the housing element relies upon nonvacant 
sites to accommodate more than 50 percent of the RHNA for lower-income households. 
For your information, the housing element must demonstrate existing uses are not an 
impediment to additional residential development and will likely discontinue in the 
planning period. (Gov. Code, § 65583.2, subd. (g)(2).) Absent findings (e.g., adoption 
resolution) based on substantial evidence, the existing uses will be presumed to impede 
additional residential development and will not be utilized toward demonstrating 
adequate sites to accommodate the regional housing need allocation. 
 
City-Owned Sites: While the element includes Program 1.2 to develop City owned sites, 
it must describe whether there are any plans to sell or dispose of the property during the 
planning period and how the jurisdiction will comply with the Surplus Land Act. 
 
Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU): The element did not address the finding regarding the 
City’s ADU projections, please see HCD’s prior review. In addition, Program 1.4 must 
commit to also monitoring affordability of the ADU units that are permitted as well as 
provide additional incentives or identify additional sites if production and affordability 
assumptions are not met. 
 
Infrastructure: While the element was revised to state all sites have access to water, 
sewer and dry utilities, it must state whether there is sufficient capacity to accommodate 
the City’s RHNA in the planning period. In addition, the element generally mentions 
infrastructure constraints for infill development. The element must describe and analyze 
the constraints as well as their impacts on the identified sites to meet the RHNA and 
add or modify programs as appropriate. 
 
In addition, regardless of sufficient sewer capacity, Program 1.20 must commit to 
establishing a written procedure to grant priority sewer service to developments with 
units affordable to lower-income households. 
 
4. An analysis of potential and actual governmental constraints upon the maintenance, 
improvement, or development of housing for all income levels, including the types of 
housing identified in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c), and for persons with disabilities as 
identified in the analysis pursuant to paragraph (7), including land use controls, building 
codes and their enforcement, site improvements, fees and other exactions required of 
developers, and local processing and permit procedures... (Gov. Code, § 65583, subd. 
(a)(5).) 
 
Land Use Controls: The element must identify and analyze all relevant land use controls 
impacts as potential constraints on a variety of housing types. The analysis should 
analyze land use controls independently and cumulatively with other land use controls. 
While the element includes Program 1.7 to reduce parking within half a mile of transit, 
the program is dependent on an analysis, but the element is missing the analysis. In 
753 of 763

--- page 754 ---
City of San Mateo’s 6th Cycle Adopted Housing Element  
Page 4 
March 27, 2023 
 
 
addition, Program 1.7 must include specific implementation actions to reduce parking 
requirements for studio and one-bedroom units city-wide as well as for units that are at 
least 1,400 square feet. Please see HCD’s prior finding. In addition, the element did not 
address the finding regarding analyzing lot coverage and limits on allowable densities. 
The element must also demonstrate feasibility of three-story developments in zones that 
limit height to 35 feet. Lastly, the element should analyze the open space requirements 
in the R-3 zone and include specific actions to reduce the constraint in the zone. 
 
Fees and Exaction: While the element was revised to add an environmental review fee, 
it must describe all required fees for single family and multifamily housing development 
including conditional use permits (CUP), general plan amendments, zoning changes, 
site plan review, planned unit developments, specific plan, and development agreement 
fees. In addition, Table 4 should also clarify whether the fees are the same for single 
family and multifamily developments. 
 
Local Processing and Permit Procedures: While the element includes information about 
processing times, it should also describe the procedures for a typical single family and 
multifamily development. The analysis should address the approval body, the number of 
public hearing if any, approval findings and any other relevant information, specifically 
for site plans and architectural review. The analysis should address impacts on housing 
cost, supply, timing and approval certainty. Many of the findings are ambiguous and 
should be addressed as a constraint including but not limited to findings one, two and 
three and add or modify programs as appropriate. Lastly, the preapplication process 
adds at least four months in addition to the typical approval times listed and the element 
should add or modify programs as appropriate to address the constraint. 
 
Local Ordinances: While the element was revised to state that community benefits are 
in addition to state law, it should clarify the ability to exceed Measure Y. In addition, the 
element should describe how the inclusionary program, the community benefit program, 
and state density bonus law interact with incentives provided. 
 
5. An analysis of potential and actual nongovernmental constraints upon the maintenance, 
improvement, or development of housing for all income levels, including… …requests to 
develop housing at densities below those anticipated in the analysis required by 
subdivision (c) of Government Code section 65583.2, and the length of time between 
receiving approval for a housing development and submittal of an application for 
building permits for that housing development that hinder the construction of a locality’s 
share of the regional housing need in accordance with Government Code section 
65584... (Gov. Code, § 65583, subd. (a)(6).) 
 
Developed Densities and Permit Times: This element generally was not revised to 
address this finding, please see HCD’s prior review. 
 
6. Analyze any special housing needs such as elderly; persons with disabilities, including a 
developmental disability; large families; farmworkers; families with female heads of 
households; and families and persons in need of emergency shelter. (Gov. Code, § 
65583, subd. (a)(7).) 
 
754 of 763

--- page 755 ---
City of San Mateo’s 6th Cycle Adopted Housing Element  
Page 5 
March 27, 2023 
 
 
Special Needs Populations: This element generally was not revised to address this 
finding. Please see HCD’s prior review for additional information. 
 
 
B. 
Housing Programs 
 
1. Include a program which sets forth a schedule of actions during the planning period, 
each with a timeline for implementation, which may recognize that certain programs are 
ongoing, such that there will be beneficial impacts of the programs within the planning 
period, that the local government is undertaking or intends to undertake to implement 
the policies and achieve the goals and objectives of the Housing Element... (Gov. Code,  
§ 65583, subd. (c).) 
 
To have a beneficial impact in the planning period and achieve the goals and objectives 
of the housing element, programs must have specific commitment and discrete timing 
(e.g., at least annually, by 2025), as follows:  
 
• Policy 1.4 (Incentivize ADU Development): The program should be revised to 
include specific commitment to reducing fees if found to be a constraint. 
• Policy 1.15 (Supportive Housing Requirements): The timing must be revised to 
implement the program by a specific date within the first two years of the 
planning period. 
• Policy 1.17 (Farmworker Housing): The program must be revised to comply with 
Health & Safety Code section 17021.5. 
• Policy 5.2.2 (Incentivize Developers): This program should be revised to include 
proactive outreach to developers throughout the planning period. 
• Policy 5.4.5 (Future Improvements in Disadvantaged Communities): The 
program must include an alternative action if the study is not implemented. 
 
2. Identify actions that will be taken to make sites available during the planning period with 
appropriate zoning and development standards and with services and facilities to 
accommodate that portion of the city’s or county’s share of the regional housing need 
for each income level that could not be accommodated on sites identified in the 
inventory completed pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) without rezoning, and 
to comply with the requirements of Government Code section 65584.09. Sites shall be 
identified as needed to facilitate and encourage the development of a variety of types of 
housing for all income levels, including multifamily rental housing, factory-built housing, 
mobilehomes, housing for agricultural employees, supportive housing, single-room 
occupancy units, emergency shelters, and transitional housing. (Gov. Code, § 65583, 
subd. (c)(1).) 
 
As noted in Finding A3, the element does not include a complete site analysis, 
therefore, the adequacy of sites and zoning were not established. Based on the results 
of a complete sites inventory and analysis, the City may need to add or revise programs 
to address a shortfall of sites or zoning available to encourage a variety of housing 
types.  
 
755 of 763

--- page 756 ---
City of San Mateo’s 6th Cycle Adopted Housing Element  
Page 6 
March 27, 2023 
 
 
In addition, Policy 3.7 (Expanding Homeless Shelters) must clarify implementation 
actions after the study in Action A.  
 
3. The Housing Element shall contain programs which assist in the development of 
adequate housing to meet the needs of extremely low-, very low-, low- and moderate-
income households. (Gov. Code, § 65583, subd. (c)(2).) 
 
While the element includes Policy 5.1.4 (Regional Forgivable Loan Program) to support 
the regional program to assist ELI households, it is a regional policy. The element 
should specify what actions the City is taking to address the ELI need. 
 
4. Address and, where appropriate and legally possible, remove governmental and 
nongovernmental constraints to the maintenance, improvement, and development of 
housing, including housing for all income levels and housing for persons with 
disabilities. The program shall remove constraints to, and provide reasonable 
accommodations for housing designed for, intended for occupancy by, or with 
supportive services for, persons with disabilities. (Gov. Code, § 65583, subd. (c)(3).) 
 
As noted in Findings A4 and A5, the element requires a complete analysis of potential 
governmental and nongovernmental constraints. Depending upon the results of that 
analysis, the City may need to revise or add programs and address and remove or 
mitigate any identified constraints. In addition, the element should be revised as follows: 
 
• Policy 1.7 (Update Zoning Code Development Standards): This program must 
make a firm commitment and specify which parking requirements will be 
removed that are a constraint to multifamily development. 
• Policy 1.14 (Evaluate and Update Special Needs Group Housing Requirements): 
The program should commit to revising procedural requirements to permit group 
homes for seven or more persons in all zones allowing residential uses based on 
objective criteria to facilitate approval certainty similar to other residential uses of 
the same form. 
• Design Review: While program 1.6 (Streamline Housing Application Review) was 
added to revise the design review process for multifamily and mixed-use 
developments, it should commit to ensuring the findings and process is objective 
if the process is not eliminated. 
• State Density Bonus Law: While the element includes Program 1.3 (Increase 
Below Market Rate Unit Production) to update the density bonus ordinance, the 
program should include specific timing early in the planning period for 
implementation. 
• Measure Y: While the element includes Program 1.21 (Adopt San Mateo General 
Plan 2040), it must include specific commitments to increase densities and 
adjustments to development standards. In addition, the element should include a 
specific program to address the constraint of Measure Y. 
 
 
756 of 763

--- page 757 ---
City of San Mateo’s 6th Cycle Adopted Housing Element  
Page 7 
March 27, 2023 
 
 
 
6. Promote and affirmatively further fair housing opportunities and promote housing 
throughout the community or communities for all persons regardless of race, religion, 
sex, marital status, ancestry, national origin, color, familial status, or disability, and other 
characteristics... (Gov. Code, § 65583, subd. (c)(5).) 
 
As noted in Finding A1, the element requires a complete affirmatively furthering fair 
housing (AFFH) analysis. Depending upon the results of that analysis, the City may 
need to revise or add programs. The element must be revised to add goals and actions 
based on the outcomes of a complete analysis. Goals and actions must specifically 
respond to the analysis and to the identified and prioritized contributing factors to fair 
housing issues and must be significant and meaningful enough to overcome identified 
patterns and trends. Actions must have specific commitment, metrics, and milestones 
as appropriate and must address housing mobility enhancement, new housing choices 
and affordability in high opportunity areas, place-based strategies for community 
preservation and revitalization and displacement protection. 
 
In addition, the element should reference the table in Appendix D in the programs 
section and the programs identified in Appendix D (Attachment 1) should include 
geographic targets for each identified action to affirmatively further fair housing. All 
programs that affirmatively further fair housing should include metrics, milestones and 
geographic targets. The analysis demonstrates a need for housing mobility in the RCAA 
and higher opportunity areas, but the sites analysis states no units were identified in 
these areas. Programs should be revised to include significant and meaningful action to 
overcome the identified patterns and trends. 
 
757 of 763

--- page 758 ---
San Mateo - Citywide outside 1/2 mile
(align with State Density Bonus)
San Mateo - Within 1/2 mile of station areas 
(Required by State Law)
San Mateo - General
San Mateo - CPID
RWC - Proposed Downtown Precise Plan 
(zones 1+2)
RWC - Existing Downtown Precise Plan 
(zones 1+2)
RWC - Mixed-Use districts and within 500 ft 
of El Camino Real or Woodside - Existing
RWC - Existing Citywide
Campbell - Walkable Areas Proposed
Campbell - Walkable Areas Existing
Campbell - Citywide Proposed
Campbell - Citywide Existing
San Bruno Transit Corridor 
San Bruno - Citywide
San Carlos - Mixed Use
San Carlos - Citywide
Burlingame - Downtown SP
Burlingame - Citywide
Single Family
Below x sf or bedroom
2
0
2
2
0
0.75
--
2
1.5
2
2
2
1
2
--
2
--
2
Above x sf or bedroom
3
0
3
2
0
2
--
2
2
2.5
by bed
3
2
2
--
2
--
3
Multifamily (per unit)
Studio
1
0
1.5
1.2
0 
(max 1)
0.75
1.5
2
1.5
2
1
2.5
0.75
1
1
1
1
1
1 bedroom
1
0
1.8
1.5
0 
(max 1)
1
1.5
2
1.5
2
1
2.5
1
1
1
1.5
1
1.5
2 bedrooms
1.5
0
2
1.7
0 
(max 1)
1.5
2
2
2
2.5
2
3
2
2
1.5
1.5
1.5
2
3+ bedrooms
1.5
0
2.2
2
0 
(max 1)
1.5
2
2
2
2.5
2
3
2
2
1.5
2
2
2.5
Guest Parking
0
0
--
--
0 
(max 1)
0
0.25
0.25
0
>0
0
>0
0
0.1
0.1
0.25
0
0.1
758 of 763

--- page 759 ---
1
Nicholas "Nicky" Vu
From:
Housing
Sent:
Wednesday, May 31, 2023 2:29 PM
To:
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia; Nicholas "Nicky" Vu
Subject:
FW: June 5 housing AND flood focus? Insufficient time for public discourse
 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Amy Jussel, Shaping Youth 
  
Sent: Wednesday, May 31, 2023 1:58 PM 
To: Housing <housing@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Richard Hedges <rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom 
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: June 5 housing AND ﬂood focus? Insuﬃcient Ɵme for public discourse 
 
City Council & Housing Oﬃcials, 
 
Quick note to be on record that cramming two huge issues of public interest into one council meeƟng is preposterous, 
given there is insuﬃcient Ɵme to oﬀer public discourse and outreach. 
 
Flooding impacted our enƟre city and many of us are sƟll navigaƟng repairs due to same and eager to have a robust 
conversaƟon on June 5 to ensure this NEVER happens again. We have many desiring to aƩend June 5 with speciﬁc 
quesƟons addressing same. 
 
Also, our communiƟes are being devastated by fast implementaƟon of poorly thought out development plans leaving 
huge gaping holes of destrucƟon that are not just an eyesore but a miƟgaƟon issue that many of us would like addressed 
given planning has pushed through oﬃce buildings and market rate housing under the guise of 'aﬀordable housing' 
w/only a smidge of same...We, as a public deserve to be heard with soluƟons, beƩer alternaƟves, inquiries and 
miƟgaƟon quesƟons regarding same. 
 
Finally, holding meeƟngs for hours on end into late night sessions and reducing public discourse to 60 second soundbites 
from ciƟzenry who would like to have serious conversaƟons about conscienƟous follow through is damaging the 
reputaƟon of a council that has been posiƟoned as desiring to 'rebuild trust' within the community. 
 
I urge you to separate out these two very important topics which the public has an extremely vested interest in seeing 
handled properly WITH public input. 
 
Anything less is giving lipservice to the concept of an informaƟve "public hearing" with community discourse...Thank you 
for your consideraƟon. 
 
AppreciaƟvely, 
 
Amy Jussel Bedard 
 
District 4 
 
MGA#1 Board 
759 of 763

--- page 760 ---
2
 
 
760 of 763

--- page 761 ---
1
Nicholas "Nicky" Vu
From:
Housing
Sent:
Thursday, June 1, 2023 8:51 AM
To:
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia; Nicholas "Nicky" Vu
Subject:
FW: HOUSING in SAN MATEO
 
 
From: worldview2000@yahoo.com 
  
Sent: Wednesday, May 31, 2023 4:31 PM 
To: Housing <housing@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: HOUSING in SAN MATEO 
 
The city of San Mateo really does not have enough space or land to accomodate 7,000 or 8000 new homes . This is an 
unrealistic amount   The City Council and powers to be need to tell SACTO and others that this kind of number is truly 
impossible. I do not want to see our precious tax revenues spent to purchase land to accommodate builders and other 
cronies ,,,, 
 
To begin with no entity is going to remove the R/R tracks or HWY 101 or 92 or similar ,,,Some roads are really too narrow 
to force in more buildings   We have a 55 foot height limit now in effect and many in your group just want to ignore it and 
allow buldings to go higher by getting waivers,,,The voters voted in this height limit for many reasons and those of you 
who seem to try and elude this 55 foot limit should understand that those of us who voted for this and similar past motions 
are not going away,,We will continue to fight any height structures over 55 feet. I have no objection to developers who 
build garages or keep it under 55 feet and go wide . We will fight these developers in many meetings and those of  you 
who are in our path , will be defeated in any public elections should you dream about being on the city council or similar. 
So that being said I implore all of you to listen to people like me who do not want monstrous.high edifices that seem to go 
to the stars. Huge intense densities and buildings that accumulate many people really put pressure on the existing 
infrastructures we have,,, 
 
I truly want a special tax to go on developers who will do new structures that will pay for all sewage and electricity 
lines  pipes and similar to be underground and also with sewage to go all the way to the sewage plant,,,the existing lines 
are oversubscribed so adding new pipes from new buildings will just call for new pipes to be installed every five years    
 
NO ONE CARES    Your planning commission has historically been DEAF to those of us who are concerned about too 
much growth here in San Mateo and you all seem to be swayed by tea and cookie  ( DOG AND PONY ) exhibits but these 
professional pro growth entities.that are plaging our sensibilities....We need to suggest that they go to other locations like 
MERCED or FRESNO that would love development but many of us here in SM are sick and tired or the charades being 
presented by the planning commission...It has gone on for too long and the gravy train these developers provide to you all 
needs to STOP  
 
I no longer like to attend your meeting and YES I have gone to many and spoken, I prefer now to again send you my 
thought and hope someone there will listen,,,OR DO  YOU JUST DELETE and trash comments from people like 
me???DUNNO  I know you will never answer my letter and have accepted your past actions very reluctantly.     
 
I have lived at 
 for 40 years ,,,I was born in Mills Hospital and not someone who just showed up. I am 
NOT a member of some political party or some political HACK... 
 
Rick Karr     
  
761 of 763

--- page 762 ---
1
Nicholas "Nicky" Vu
From:
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia
Sent:
Thursday, June 1, 2023 10:06 AM
To:
Nicholas "Nicky" Vu
Subject:
FW: Your June 5th Meeting / Housing Element Facts
 
 
From: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>  
Sent: Thursday, June 1, 2023 9:16 AM 
To: Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Eloiza 
Murillo-Garcia <emurillogarcia@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: FW: Your June 5th Meeting / Housing Element Facts 
 
 
 
Patrice M. Olds, MMC 
City Clerk 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388 
polds@cityofsanmateo.org 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7042 
  
From: Lisa Taner 
  
Sent: Wednesday, May 31, 2023 2:20 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Your June 5th Meeting / Housing Element Facts 
 
Dear City Councilmembers, 
  
As your June 5th meeting approaches and there is further discussion on the Housing Element, I point to critical 
details for those who would say San Mateo needs to identify yet more places for housing units to satisfy the 
HCD.  I shared these with Prasana, Drew and Zachary last week: 
  
The organization 'Our Neighborhood Voices' recently presented to SMUHA.  I learned some things about the 
HCD I found very disturbing, and feel that you should at the very least be aware as you continue to strive for 
the HCD to certify San Mateo's submission.  San Mateo might consider joining forces with other cities on a 
class action lawsuit against the HCD.  (This, at a cost of about $20k, seems very little in order to wrench control 
away from this rogue state department.)  
  
WE'RE GETTING SET UP TO FAIL 
  
The HCD essentially has no timeframe to approve a city’s submission.  More precisely, they may 
indiscriminately 'bounce' a submitted element for an unlimited number of times - opening the door for the 
Builder's Remedy. Some of the HCD requirements are quite subjective. The speaker from Our Neighborhood 
Voices noted that a consultant who had successfully worked with some Southern California cities to obtain 
762 of 763

--- page 763 ---
2
HCD approval for their housing plans began bumping into walls because the HCD then began requiring new 
information which completely stalled approvals.  This is not a one-off.  A city may experience a different 
requirement each time its submission is kicked back, again and again. There is no deadline by which 
submissions have to be approved because there is no limit to the number of times the HCD can deny 
them.  There is only the original deadline by which plans were supposed to be approved - placing cities in 
untenable situations as denials roll in. 
  
It very much feels like cities are being set up to fail.  The very long list of those waiting for approval is 
astounding – and gives special interests a megaphone to cry out that cities are not complying with the state. As 
you know, even San Mateo (whose staff has strongly defended their submission) has been placed on pause – 
allowing developer-friendly folks to suggest 'solutions' for this 'problem.' Not surprisingly, they include 
rezoning single-family neighborhoods, allowing up to 12 story buildings, and allowing for more rezoning by 
expanding definitions of 'transit' areas from a 1/2 mile to 3/4 of a mile, which throws doors open to more 
development. 
  
In final review, the HCD, on a very flimsy methodology (per the State Auditor), devises the thousands of 
housing units every city must build, then can sit on the plans each city submits so that they are punished with 
the Builder’s Remedy, etc.  Do not allow San Mateo to fall victim to the antics of the HCD when we have 
already done our job. 
  
Sincerely, 
  
Lisa Taner 
763 of 763