source: packet.pdf
sha256: ae5a85d4b642d495143a99b5361dcb3991507125d49a693454a4ad9707980270
pages: 268
ocr_pages: 17
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
December 4, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: December 4, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 811 5372 0813      Passcode: 215217
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Shop Small San Mateo – Raffle Winner Pull
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
2.
New Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family and Residential Mixed-Use Development – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the Zoning Code (Title 27) related to ODS and review processes for multi-family
and residential mixed-use projects, and align the fence height standards to match building code standards.
CEQA: In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, Section 15061(b)(3), adoption
of this ordinance is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies only to projects which have
the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment.
3.
Municipal Code Clean Up Amendments for San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.35 “Mandatory Organic Waste
Disposal Reduction Ordinance” – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.35, “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal
Reduction Ordinance” to Update the Title and Code References in Preparation for Enforcement Beginning January
1, 2024.
CEQA: In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, sections 15168, 15162, and
15308, this action does not require further environmental review because 1) in accordance with CEQA Guidelines
1 of 268

--- page 2 ---
Section 15168, the activities described in this Ordinance are entirely within the scope of a program Environmental
Impact Report prepared by CalRecycle concerning the SB 1383 Regulations (PEIR) and the PEIR adequately
described the activities described in this Ordinance; and 2) in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15168 and
15162, no conditions exist necessitating supplemental or subsequent environmental review. Additionally, this
action is categorically exempt from CEQA as it is an action taken to protect the environment. (CEQA Guidelines
Section 15308.)
4.
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bicycle Improvements – Appropriation, Budget Transfer, and
Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $28,000 from the City’s Measure A funds to the Delaware Street Safe Routes
to School Corridor Project in the Capital Project Fund; and transfer $92,400 from the Citywide Street
Reconstruction Package 1 Project to the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Project (Project) in the
Capital Project Fund, for a total Project design budget of $380,080; approve a Design Professional Services
Agreement with Sandis Civil Engineers Surveyors Planners for the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor
Bicycle Improvements Project in the amount of $290,980; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of
$29,100 for the agreement; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially
the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This Project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
5.
Police Vehicle Computer Replacement – Purchase
Adopt a Resolution to approve the use of an alternative purchasing procedure and Master Purchasing Agreement
and Participating Addendum with CDWG for the purchase of 56 Panasonic laptops per the City’s computer
replacement schedule in the amount of $252,996.21and 40 Havis laptop docking stations in the amount of
$27,582.65 for a total amount of $280,578.86; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
6.
Bermuda Drive Utility Relocation Project – Agreement
Approve an agreement with St. Francis Electric, LLC for the Bermuda Drive Utility Relocation Project in the
amount of $167,105; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $25,000; and authorize the Public Works
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders as allowed by the
contract documents and within the amount of the contingency amount.
CEQA: This Project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
7.
Staffing of Police Officers at College of San Mateo Football Games – Agreement
Approve an agreement with the San Mateo County Community College District to staff Police Officers at the
College of San Mateo home football games and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented.
2 of 268

--- page 3 ---
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
8.
Child Care Facilities Fund Loan for Improvements at 2575 Flores Street – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve a Child Care Facilities Fund loan of $430,000 to Mighty Tiger Preschool, LLC for
tenant improvements at 2575 Flores Street, Suite 1, San Mateo to establish a new child care facility, and
authorize the City Manager to execute the loan agreement, promissory note, short form deed of trust and
agreement containing covenants affecting real property and all related documents in such a manner that does
not substantially change the loan terms.
CEQA: The loan agreement and related childcare facility improvements are categorically exempt from CEQA as an
“existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor
alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features,
involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
9.
Citywide Tree Planting Services – Appropriation and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to authorize an appropriation of $288,942.50 from the Tree Replacement Fund to the Parks
and Recreation Capital Improvement Project Tree Planting Fund; approve an agreement with Loral Horticultural
Services Inc. for Citywide Tree Planting Services in the amount of $262,675.00; establish a 10 percent contingency
reserve of $26,275.50; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This agreement for tree planting is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it
consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public
or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no
expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
10.
CalRecycle – Grant Applications
Adopt a Resolution to approve the submission of grant applications to the California Department of Resources
Recycling and Recovery; and authorize the City Manager, or Solid Waste Supervisor as designee, to execute all
required documentation necessary for the grant application process.
CEQA: This action by the City in passing a resolution allowing receipt of State money and submission of grant
applications is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
11.
Fallen Heroes Memorial Artwork Fabrication – Appropriation and Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to authorize an appropriation in the amount of $103,400 from the Art in Public Places Fund to
the Parks and Recreation Capital Improvement Project Central Park Fund for the fabrication of the Fallen Heroes
Memorial artwork and approve a purchase agreement with Thomas-Swan Sign Company, Inc., for custom
fabricated signage in an amount not to exceed $103,400; and authorize the Director of the Parks and Recreation
to execute a purchase agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
 
3 of 268

--- page 4 ---
12.
Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance Policy for Calendar Years 2024 and 2025 – Purchase
Approve the purchase of excess workers' compensation insurance from Safety National in an amount projected to
be $491,604.00 for the two-year period commencing January 1, 2024, and ending December 31, 2025.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
13.
Receipt and Use of Development Impact Fees and In-Lieu Fees – Annual Report
Adopt a Resolution to make findings and accept the annual report on receipt and use of development impact fees
and in-lieu fees for the year ended June 30, 2023.
CEQA: This report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
CEREMONIAL - COUNCIL REORGANIZATION
Public Comment will be taken at the end of all Ceremonial - Council Reorganization actions.
 
14(a). Recognition of Mayor Amourence Lee
Adopt Commendatory Resolution No. C-3 commending Amourence Lee for her term as Mayor in 2023.
14(b). City Council Reorganization – Mayor
Nominations and vote for Mayor for 2024. 
14(c). City Council Reorganization – Deputy Mayor
Nominations and vote for Deputy Mayor for 2024.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
4 of 268

--- page 5 ---
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
5 of 268

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 23-8252
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
December 04, 2023 
SUBJECT:
New Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family and Residential Mixed-Use Development – Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the Zoning Code (Title 27) related to ODS and review processes for multi-family and 
residential mixed-use projects, and align the fence height standards to match building code standards.
BACKGROUND:
On November 20, 2023, the City Council introduced the attached proposed ordinance (Attachment 1) to amend the Zoning 
Code (Title 27) related to ODS and review processes for multi-family and residential mixed-use projects, and align the 
fence height standards to match building code standards. If adopted this ordinance will become effective 30 days after its 
adoption.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this ordinance adoption. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, Section 15061(b)(3), adoption of this 
ordinance is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA applies only to projects which have the potential to 
cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, it can be seen with certainty that the proposed amendments create 
objective design standards and a streamlined review process for small projects up to twenty-five (25) residential dwelling 
units subject to objective design standards would not cause a physical change in the environment and therefore would not 
have a significant effect on the environment. Proposals for multi-family or residential mixed-use development will be 
considered as individual projects and will be evaluated pursuant to CEQA at the time of application submittal. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
6 of 268

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT ORDINANCE 
 Amending Title 27, Zoning, Related to Objective Design Standards and Review Process for Multi-
Family and Mixed-Use Residential Projects, and Align Fence Height Standard for Planning Applications 
with Building Code Standards. 
WHEREAS, under the Housing Accountability Act, housing development projects, as defined, are 
subject to design review standards and criteria provided that they are objective in nature and not 
subjective; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (City) desires to update its existing design standards for multi-
family residential and residential mixed-use developments to offer objective design criteria for 
streamlined review of projects; and  
WHEREAS, the City’s draft 2023-2031 Housing Element identifies programs to further streamline 
processing for projects, including the adoption of objective design standards and the increase of Zoning 
Administrator approval authority to include projects with 6 to 25 residential dwelling units; and 
WHEREAS, the City has conducted extensive community outreach over the last three years 
regarding objective design standards, including three public outreach meetings and two Planning 
Commission study sessions; and  
WHEREAS, in accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, Section 
15061(b)(3), adoption of this ordinance is covered by the "common sense exemption" in that CEQA 
applies only to projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect on the environment. Here, 
it can be seen with certainty that the proposed amendments create objective design standards and a 
streamlined review process for small projects up to twenty-five (25) residential dwelling units subject to 
objective design standards would not cause a physical change in the environment and therefore would 
not have a significant effect on the environment. Proposals for multi-family or residential mixed-use 
development will be considered as individual projects and will be evaluated pursuant to CEQA at the 
time of application submittal; and 
WHEREAS, on October 24, 2023, the Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing, 
received all written and oral public comments, and recommended that the City Council approve the 
proposed ordinance. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: 
Section 1. Legislative Findings. 
At a duly noticed public hearing, the City Council of the City of San Mateo reviewed and 
considered the accompanying staff report and attachments thereto, the exemption from environmental 
review, together with comments received during the public review process, and hereby finds and 
determines that the proposed ordinance is consistent with the adopted General Plan in that it supports 
7 of 268

--- page 8 ---
successful completion of projects that implement and achieve the General Plan’s stated goals and 
policies. 
 
Section 2. Section 27.06.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.06.020 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR—POWERS AND DUTIES. 
 
The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this Title, and shall: 
 
(a) Conduct such inspections of buildings, structures, and use of land as are 
necessary to determine compliance with the terms of this Title; 
 
(b) Establish, with the approval of the Council, and administer rules for the 
conduct of the Zoning Administrator's office; 
 
(c) Maintain permanent and current records of documents and proceedings under this 
Title; 
 
(d) Provide and maintain a continuing program of education and public information on 
zoning matters; 
 
(e) Recommend abatement of violations of this Title and aid in prosecution thereof; 
 
(f) Receive, file, and transmit to the appropriate approval body all planning 
applications and all appeals which the designated approval body is authorized to review or 
to take final action upon under the provisions of this Title; 
 
(g) Interpret provisions of the zoning ordinance, subject to appeal of the 
decision to the Planning Commission; 
 
(h) Have the authority to review and approve, conditionally approve, or 
disapprove the following types of projects, provided that the projects do not result in any 
significant impacts pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), subject 
to public notice and to appeal of the final action to the Planning Commission: 
 
(1) Site plan and architectural review for projects that incorporate: 
 
(A) Up to twenty-five (25) residential dwelling units that 
meet objective design standards as adopted by resolution of the 
City Council; or 
 
(B) Up to (5) residential dwelling units that do not meet 
objective design standards as adopted by resolution of the City 
Council; or 
8 of 268

--- page 9 ---
(C) Up to 10,000 square feet of non- residential 
development; or 
 
(D) Other minor site improvements including but not 
limited to parking lots, landscaping, recreation facilities, accessory 
structures, recycling collection areas, circular driveways in R1, R2 
districts; 
 
(E) Fences over seven (7) feet and those over three (3) feet 
when located in a front yard and/or street side yard 
setback or within forty-five (45) feet of a street 
intersection line, authorized by Chapter 27.84. 
 
(F) Freestanding signs. 
 
(2) Site development permits for removal of major vegetation required 
for the construction of projects that require Zoning Administrator review and 
approval, or grading of five thousand (5,000) cubic yards or less under Chapter 
23.40. 
 
(3) Variances as authorized by Chapter 27.78, for single-family, 
accessory dwelling units,  duplex dwellings, or residential projects with up to 
six (6) residential dwelling units. 
 
(4) Temporary use permits authorized by Chapter 27.74. 
 
(5) Modifications authorized by Chapter 27.08. 
 
(6) Special permits to allow the following: 
 
(A) Recycling facilities subject to regulations established in Chapter 27.69; 
 
(B) Plumbing in detached accessory buildings in the R-1 zone, as 
authorized under Chapter 27.18 
 
(C) Substantial removal of existing residences in an R-1 zoning district; 
 
(D) Temporary real estate sales offices, as authorized under Chapters 
26.04 and 27.18;  
 
(E) Swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas located in required front 
or street side yards, as authorized under Chapter 27.18; and 
 
(F) Additional floor area ratio in the R-3 District, as authorized under 
9 of 268

--- page 10 ---
Chapter 27.22. 
 
(7) Concurrent development of two or more contiguous lots or parcels 
of real property in R-1 and R-2 districts. 
 
(8) Parcel Maps without exceptions as authorized by Title 26 (Subdivision). 
 
(9) Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) Applications. 
 
(10) City projects that meet the following criteria: 
 
(A) The project was conceptually approved as part of, or approved 
concurrent with, a Master Plan, program document, or project planning 
document that is in effect and has been previously approved by the City Council; 
and 
 
(B) The project does not propose major changes from previous City 
Council approval; and 
 
(C) The project would not result in a significant environmental impact 
pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). 
 
(i) Notwithstanding the above, the Zoning Administrator may refer the application to the Planning 
Commission for hearing and action when it is unclear whether the necessary findings for project 
approval can be made. 
 
 
Section 3. Section 27.06.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.06.040 PLANNING COMMISSION—JURISDICTION. 
(a) The Commission shall review and take final action, subject to appeal to the Council, upon all 
applications for: 
(1) Appeals from the decisions of the Zoning Administrator; 
(2) Special use permits other than for high rise buildings, or those identified under 
Section 27.06.020(h)(6); 
(3) Site Plan and Architectural Review for projects that incorporate: 
(A) Twenty-six (26) or more residential dwelling units that meet objective design 
standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council; or 
10 of 268

--- page 11 ---
(B) Six (6) or more residential dwelling units that do not meet objective design 
standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council; or  
(C) Over 10,000 square feet of non-residential development. 
(4) Site Development Planning Applications involving grading of more than five 
thousand (5,000) cubic yards under Section 23.40; 
(5) Tentative Maps and Parcel Maps with exceptions under Title 26 (Subdivisions); 
(6) Applications which are accompanied by environmental impact reports, other than 
reclassifications, planned developments, special use permits for high rise buildings, and general 
plan amendments; 
(7) Release of conditions or easements recorded by the City under Section 27.08.045. 
(8) Modifications under Section 27.08.080(b). 
(9) Variances as authorized in Section 27.78.040 for planning applications for structures 
other than single-family and duplex. 
(10) Planned signing districts and freestanding signs over eight (8) feet in height. 
(b) The Commission shall review and make recommendations to the Council upon all 
applications for reclassifications, planned developments, site plan and architectural review for buildings 
exceeding 55 feet in height, General Plan amendments, projects which are fully or partially funded by 
the City and otherwise require Planning Commission review, and projects which include as part of the 
site any parcel of land which is in whole or in part subject to the tidelands trust provisions of State law. 
(c) The Commission may, on its own initiative, recommend to the Council that proceedings be 
initiated for an amendment, supplement, change or repeal of the whole or any portion of this Title, 
provided that public hearings thereon shall be held in the manner prescribed in this Title. The 
Commission shall periodically initiate a comprehensive review of the provisions of this Title and make a 
report of its findings to the Council. 
Section 4. Section 27.08.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.08.030 
SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR). 
(a) The following projects, as well as other projects that may be designated in this code, require 
a site plan and architectural review and no such project shall commence until the approval body has 
approved a planning application for site plan and architectural review: any building, new parking lot, 
fence over seven (7) feet in height, or an extension, alteration, or addition of or to an existing building or 
parking lot; historic buildings within the Downtown Specific Plan area as specified in Chapter 27.66. 
11 of 268

--- page 12 ---
Single family and accessory buildings that conform to the standards contained in Chapter 27.18, or 
minor facade modifications as defined in Section 27.04.313, and which conform with Section 27.08.031, 
are exempt from this requirement, unless they are specifically designated by this section as requiring 
review. In making its review, the Zoning Administrator, Development Review Board, and Planning 
Commission shall be guided by the standards adopted by the Planning Commission and City Council. The 
application shall be approved if the Zoning Administrator or Commission finds all of the following to 
exist: 
(1) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the 
character of the neighborhood; 
(2) The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of 
the City; 
(3) The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare; 
(4) The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of 
the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site; 
(5) The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security. 
(b) All buildings, structures, landscaping, and other establishments shall be constructed in 
accordance with the approved drawings. 
(c) The City Council shall review and make the final determination on all buildings exceeding 
fifty-five (55) feet in height or where required by express General Plan provisions. 
Section 5. Section 27.21.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
 
27.21.030 Rules of Procedure 
Except as otherwise outlined below, the applicable rules of procedure contained in Chapter 
27.08 shall apply to all SB 9 planning applicaƟons. Where there is a conﬂict, standards in this Chapter 
shall prevail. 
(a) Planning Application Submittal. An SB 9 planning application, on the form(s) prescribed by 
the Department, for either an attached or detached unit(s) and/or urban lot splits, shall be submitted 
for all development pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. 
(1) An applicant may file concurrent planning applications under this Chapter for one or 
two-unit development and an urban lot split. 
12 of 268

--- page 13 ---
(2) Processing of Applications. Unless an SB 9 application is submitted pursuant to 
Section 27.21.045 of this Chapter, SB 9 application(s) shall be processed as prescribed in Section 
27.08.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, except that these applications shall be considered 
ministerially with no public hearing. 
(b) Informational Notice. Upon receipt of an SB 9 planning application, and once the project is 
deemed complete, the City shall provide an informational notice that an SB 9 application has been filed 
with the City to all property owners and tenants within a 500-foot radius of the subject parcel and to the 
applicable neighborhood association(s) in accordance with the noticing procedures adopted by the 
Department. 
(c) Ministerial Permit Approval. If an SB 9 planning application complies with the provisions of 
this Chapter, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit shall be issued. Notwithstanding anything contrary 
in this code, the issuance of a ministerial SB 9 Two-Unit Development permit and/or a SB 9 Urban Lot 
Split permit is not appealable. 
(d) Submittal Requirements. In addition to the requirements of Section 27.08.010(c), each 
application shall be accompanied by all of the following: 
(1) Application Forms. Completed SB 9 planning application forms as prescribed by the 
Department; 
(2) Property Ownership. Verification of property ownership in the form of a preliminary 
title report that is no more than a year old, showing the current owners of the property, the 
names of record owners of the land, and all existing easements and other reservations, 
restrictions, or covenants; and 
(3) Legal Description. An accurate legal description of the property and any resultant 
lots in the case of an urban lot split application; and 
(4) Plans. Scaled and accurate plans to include required applicable information as 
outlined in the Planning Application and/or Urban Lot Split Submittal Requirements checklists; 
and 
(5) Affidavit. A completed property owner tenant disclosure affidavit and 
acknowledgement that the application meets SB 9 eligibility requirements. 
(6) Findings. Findings of Approval. An SB 9 application not submitted pursuant to 
Section 27.21.045 of this Chapter shall be approved ministerially if the Zoning Administrator or 
designee makes all the following findings: 
(A) The parcel is within the Two-Unit Overlay District and meets all qualifying 
criteria as outlined in this Chapter; 
13 of 268

--- page 14 ---
(B) The development meets all applicable objective standards contained in and 
required by the General Plan, San Mateo Municipal Code or other City adopted plans, 
policies, or standards; 
(C) The development does not adversely affect matters regarding police 
protection, crime prevention, and security because it adheres to the objective standards 
of Chapter 23.54; 
(D) The proposed SB 9 unit(s) is consistent with all applicable SB 9 objective 
design standards of the Two-Unit Overlay District. 
(7) Findings of Denial. An SB 9 application shall be denied if the Building Official makes 
written findings, based upon a preponderance of evidence, that: 
(A) The proposed housing development would have a specific adverse impact, 
as defined and determined in paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, as 
amended, of the Government Code, upon public health and safety or the physical 
environment, and for which there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or 
avoid the specific adverse impact(s). 
Section 6. Section 27.39.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: 
27.39.120 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS. 
In this district, residenƟal uses shall be permited as part of mixed-use developments, subject to 
the City’s ObjecƟve Design Standards as adopted by resoluƟon of the City Council and requirements of 
SecƟon 27.38.130. 
Section 7. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA) Guidelines, Section 15061(b)(3), adoption of this ordinance is covered by the "common sense 
exemption" in that CEQA applies only to projects which have the potential to cause a significant effect 
on the environment. Here, it can be seen with certainty that the proposed amendments create objective 
design standards and a streamlined review process for small projects up to twenty-five (25) residential 
dwelling units subject to objective design standards would not cause a physical change in the 
environment and therefore would not have a significant effect on the environment. Proposals for multi-
family or residential mixed-use development will be considered as individual projects and will be 
evaluated pursuant to CEQA at the time of application submittal. 
 
Section 8. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be 
determined invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and 
all other sections or portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect. 
 
14 of 268

--- page 15 ---
Section 9. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general 
circulation, posted in the City Clerk’s Office, and posted on the City’s website, all in accordance with 
Section 2.15 of the City Charter.  
Section 10. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete, 
and adopted on Clerk to complete, and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption. 
15 of 268

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 23-8253
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
December 04, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Municipal Code Clean Up Amendments for San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.35 “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal 
Reduction Ordinance” – Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.35, “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction 
Ordinance” to Update the Title and Code References in Preparation for Enforcement Beginning January 1, 2024. 
BACKGROUND:
On November 20, 2023, the City Council introduced the attached proposed ordinance (Attachment 1) to amend San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 7.35, “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction Ordinance” to Update the Title and Code 
References in Preparation for Enforcement Beginning January 1, 2024. If adopted this ordinance will become effective 30 
days after its adoption.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this ordinance adoption. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, sections 15168, 15162, and 15308, this action 
does not require further environmental review because 1) in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15168, the 
activities described in this Ordinance are entirely within the scope of a program Environmental Impact Report prepared by 
CalRecycle concerning the SB 1383 Regulations (PEIR) and the PEIR adequately described the activities described in this 
Ordinance; and 2) in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15168 and 15162, no conditions exist necessitating 
supplemental or subsequent environmental review. Additionally, this action is categorically exempt from CEQA as it is an 
action taken to protect the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15308.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
16 of 268

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amending Chapter 7.35, “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction Ordinance” of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code 
WHEREAS, the State of California passed Senate Bill 1383 (Chapter 395, Statutes of 2016), the Short-
lived Climate Pollutant Reduction Act of 2016, which requires the California Department of Resources Recycling 
and Recovery (CalRecycle) to adopt regulations to reduce organic waste; and
WHEREAS, CalRecycle has finalized implementing regulations by revising Chapter 12 (Short-Lived 
Climate Pollutants) of Division 7 of Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations (SB 1383 Regulations); and
WHEREAS, the SB 1383 Regulations require a 50 percent reduction of organic waste by 2020 from 2014 
baseline levels and a 75 percent reduction by 2025, and further require the recovery by 2025 of at least 20 
percent of currently disposed of edible food for human consumption; and
WHEREAS, the SB 1383 Regulations require cities, counties, and special districts providing solid waste 
collection services to adopt and enforce an implementing ordinance or other mechanism by January 1, 2022 that 
includes the regulation of waste haulers and generators of organic waste and edible food, as well as 
enforcement provisions and penalties for violations; and
WHEREAS, the South Bayside Waste Management Authority (SBWMA) developed a Model Mandatory 
Organic Waste Disposal Reduction Ordinance for its member agencies to utilize; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo adopted the “Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction 
Ordinance” (Ordinance) on December 6, 2021; and
WHEREAS, the Ordinance provides for an education period for non-compliance from January 1, 2022 
through December 31, 2023; and
WHEREAS, the Ordinance provides for enforcement to begin on January 1, 2024; and
WHEREAS, amendments to the Ordinance’s enforcement section are necessary to correct certain code 
references prior to enforcement. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. The title of Chapter 7.35 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows: "Mandatory 
Organic Waste Disposal Reduction”.
Section 2. Section 7.35.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
7.35.010 Title
This Chapter shall be known as the "Mandatory Organic Waste Disposal Reduction" ordinance and may 
be so cited and commonly referred to in this Chapter as the "Ordinance."
17 of 268

--- page 18 ---
Section 3. Section 7.35.130 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
7.35.130 Enforcement
(a) Violation of any provision of this Chapter shall constitute grounds for issuance of a Notice of 
Violation and assessment of a fine by the Jurisdiction Enforcement Official, Designee for Edible Food Recovery, 
or representative. Enforcement Actions under this ordinance are issuance of an administrative citation and 
assessment of a fine. The City’s procedures on imposition of administrative fines are hereby incorporated in 
their entirety, as modified from time to time, and shall govern the imposition, enforcement, collection, and 
review of administrative citations issued to enforce this ordinance and any rule or regulation adopted pursuant 
to this ordinance, except as otherwise indicated in this ordinance.
(b) Other remedies allowed by law may be used, including civil action or prosecution as misdemeanor or 
infraction. The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery may pursue civil actions in the California courts to 
seek recovery of unpaid administrative citations. The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery may choose 
to delay court action until such time as a sufficiently large number of violations, or cumulative size of violations 
exist such that court action is a reasonable use of the City’s or Designee for Edible Food Recovery’s staff and 
resources.
(c) Responsible Entity for Enforcement
(1) Enforcement pursuant to this ordinance may be undertaken by the Jurisdiction Enforcement 
Official, which may be the city manager, city attorney, or their designee, or combination thereof, or 
Designee for Edible Food Recovery.
(A) Jurisdiction Enforcement Official(s) and Designee for Edible Food Recovery (for 
Edible Food Recovery provisions) will interpret ordinance; determine the applicability of 
waivers, if violation(s) have occurred; implement Enforcement Actions; and, determine if 
compliance standards are met. 
(B) Jurisdiction Enforcement Official(s) and Designee for Edible Food Recovery (for 
Edible Food Recovery provisions) may issue Notices of Violation(s). 
(d) Process for Enforcement
(1) Jurisdiction Enforcement Officials or Designee for Edible Food Recovery and/or their 
Designee will monitor compliance with the ordinance randomly and through Compliance Reviews, Route 
Reviews, investigation of complaints, and an Inspection program (that may include Remote Monitoring). 
Section 7.35.120 establishes Jurisdiction’s and Designee for Edible Food Recovery’s right to conduct 
Inspections and investigations. 
(2) The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery may issue an official notification to notify 
regulated entities of its obligations under the ordinance.
(3) For incidences of Prohibited Container Contaminants found in containers, the City or its 
Designee will issue a Notice of Violation to any generator found to have Prohibited Container 
18 of 268

--- page 19 ---
Contaminants in a container. Such notice will be provided via a cart tag or other communication 
immediately upon identification of the Prohibited Container Contaminants or within 30 days after 
determining that a violation has occurred. If the City or its Designee observes Prohibited Container 
Contaminants in a generator’s containers on more than two (2) consecutive occasion(s), the City or its 
Designee may assess contamination processing fees or contamination penalties on the generator 
provided by law.
The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery will issue a Notice of Violation to any Tier One or Tier 
Two Commercial Edible Food Generator found to have Edible Food in any waste container or to any 
Food Recovery Organization or Food Recovery Service found to have Edible Food recovered from a Tier 
One or Tier Two Edible Food Generator in a waste collection container which has not been documented 
by a notice of significant spoilage as required in this Ordinance. Such notice will be provided by email 
communication immediately upon identification of the violation or within three (3) calendar days after 
determining that a violation has occurred. If the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery observes 
Edible Food in a Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator, or Food Recovery 
Organization, or Food Recovery Service waste container on more than two (2) consecutive occasion(s), 
the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery may assess an administrative citation and fine, 
pursuant to the Edible Food Recovery penalties provisions contained in this Ordinance, on the Tier One 
or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator, Food Recovery Organization, or Food Recovery Service.
(4) With the exception of violations of generator contamination of container contents addressed 
under Section 7.35.130(d)(3), the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery shall issue a Notice of 
Violation requiring compliance within 60 days of issuance of the notice.
(5) Absent compliance by the respondent within the deadline set forth in the Notice of Violation, 
the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery (for the Edible Food Recovery provisions) may 
commence an action to impose penalties via an administrative citation and fine, pursuant to its 
Administrative citation and fine procedures. 
For the purposes of Edible Food Recovery, the Designee for Edible Food Recovery may commence an 
action to impose penalties, via an administrative citation and fine, pursuant to the Edible Food Recovery 
penalties provisions contained in this Ordinance and/or Title 1 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
Notices shall be sent to “owner” at the official address of the owner maintained by the tax collector for 
the City or if no such address is available, to the owner at the address of the dwelling or Commercial 
property or to the party responsible for paying for the collection services, depending upon available 
information 
(e) Penalty Amounts for Types of Violations
The penalty levels for violations unrelated to the Edible Food Recovery requirement are as follows: 
(1) For a first violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be $100 per violation. 
19 of 268

--- page 20 ---
(2) For a second violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be $200 per violation.
(3) For a third or subsequent violation, the amount of the base penalty shall be $500 per 
violation.
(f) Compliance Deadline Extension Considerations
The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery may extend the compliance deadlines set forth in a 
Notice of Violation issued in accordance with Section 7.35.130 if it finds that there are extenuating 
circumstances beyond the control of the respondent that make compliance within the deadlines 
impracticable, including the following:
(1) Acts of God such as earthquakes, wildfires, flooding, and other emergencies or natural 
disasters;
(2) Delays in obtaining discretionary permits or other government agency approvals; or,
(3) Deficiencies in Organic Waste recycling infrastructure or Edible Food Recovery capacity and 
the City is under a corrective action plan with CalRecycle pursuant to 14 CCR Section 18996.2 due to 
those deficiencies.
(g) Appeals Process
Persons receiving an administrative citation containing a penalty for an uncorrected violation may 
request a hearing to appeal the citation. A hearing will be held only if it is requested within the time 
prescribed and consistent with the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery’s procedures in the 
City’s or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery’s codes for appeals of administrative citations. Evidence 
may be presented at the hearing. The City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery will appoint a 
hearing officer who shall conduct the hearing and issue a final written order. 
(h) Education Period for Non-Compliance 
Beginning January 1, 2022 and through December 31, 2023, the City or its Designee for Edible Food 
Recovery (for edible food generator and food recovery organization and service requirements) may 
conduct Inspections, Remote Monitoring, Route Reviews or waste evaluations, and Compliance Reviews, 
depending upon the type of regulated entity, to determine compliance, and if the City or its Designee for 
Edible Food Recovery determines that Organic Waste Generator, Self-Hauler, hauler, Tier One 
Commercial Edible Food Generator, Food Recovery Organization, Food Recovery Service, or other entity 
is not in compliance, it shall provide educational materials and/or, for the purposes of Edible Food 
Recovery, training to the entity describing its obligations under this ordinance and a notice that 
compliance is required by January 1, 2022, and that violations may be subject to administrative civil 
penalties starting on January 1, 2024. 
(i) Civil Penalties for Non-Compliance
20 of 268

--- page 21 ---
Beginning January 1, 2024, if the City or its Designee for Edible Food Recovery (Designee for Edible Food 
determination only for Tier 1 and Tier 2 Commercial Edible food generator and food recovery 
organization and service requirements) determines that an Organic Waste Generator, Self-Hauler, 
hauler, Tier One or Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator, Food Recovery Organization, Food 
Recovery Service, or other entity is not in compliance with this ordinance, it shall document the 
noncompliance or violation, issue a Notice of Violation, and take Enforcement Action pursuant to 
Section 7.35.130, as needed.
Section 4. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, sections 15168, 15162, and 15308, this action does not require further environmental review 
because 1) in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15168, the activities described in this Ordinance are 
entirely within the scope of a program Environmental Impact Report prepared by CalRecycle concerning the SB 
1383 Regulations (PEIR) and the PEIR adequately described the activities described in this Ordinance; and 2) in 
accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15168 and 15162, no conditions exist necessitating supplemental or 
subsequent environmental review. Additionally, this action is categorically exempt from CEQA as it is an action 
taken to protect the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15308.)
Section 5. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 6. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 7. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
21 of 268

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4661
File ID: 23-8161
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
December 04, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bicycle Improvements – Appropriation, Budget Transfer, and Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $28,000 from the City’s Measure A funds to the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School 
Corridor Project in the Capital Project Fund; and transfer $92,400 from the Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 1 
Project to the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Project (Project) in the Capital Project Fund, for a total 
Project design budget of $380,080; approve a Design Professional Services Agreement with Sandis Civil Engineers 
Surveyors Planners for the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bicycle Improvements Project in the amount of 
$290,980; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $29,100 for the agreement; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency 
amount.
BACKGROUND:
In the City’s 2020 Bicycle Master Plan (Plan), Delaware Street is identified as a major north-south connector providing 
critical bicycle access to major connections and destinations, including Fiesta Gardens International School and George Hall 
Elementary School. The Plan recommends upgrading the existing Class II bike lanes to Class IV separated bike lanes on 
Delaware Street from 19th Avenue to 28th Avenue and upgrading the existing bicycle route to a bicycle boulevard on 
Delaware Street from 28th Avenue to Pacific Boulevard where they will connect with existing bicycle facilities southerly on 
Pacific Boulevard (Project). These new bicycle facilities on Delaware are necessary to create a low-stress corridor suitable 
for users of all ages serving, in particular, younger cyclists needing access to the nearby schools. A description of the 
various types of bicycle facilities described above is included in Attachment 3.
In April 2021, the California Transportation Commission awarded the City $1,661,000 in Regional Active Transportation 
Program (ATP) grant funding to Project 46R022 Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike Improvements for 
design and construction of the bicycle facility upgrades described above on Delaware Street. Community outreach is also 
included in the Project scope, which will solicit feedback from the community regarding the proposed bicycle facilities and 
their connection to current or future bicycle facilities and engage with residents directly adjacent to the project to identify 
any impacts (i.e. parking), concerns or challenges with the Project’s implementation and work toward addressing those 
issues. The feedback received will help inform the Project design.
Of the overall grant fund amount ($1,661,000), approximately $260,000 is allocated for design and $1.4M for construction. 
As the same segment of roadway on Delaware Street was planned to be resurfaced by the City Street Reconstruction 
Program in 2028, staff is looking to streamline the two (2) projects and leverage a smooth roadway surface for the 
proposed Class IV bike facility on Delaware Street. Therefore, it is proposed to transfer $92,400 from project 467008 
Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 1 to the 46R022 Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bike 
22 of 268

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Improvement project, in order to accelerate the design of the resurfacing of this roadway segment in advance of the Class 
IV separated bike lane improvements. As a result, the total design cost including design contingency and staff cost is 
approximately $380,080.
Sandis Civil Engineers Surveyors Planners (Sandis) was selected through a qualification process using a request for 
proposals (RFP) for professional engineering design services. The Project was advertised on September 7, 2023, and a total 
of five (5) proposals were received on October 12, 2023. Staff’s review of the proposals included an evaluation and scoring 
method based on each firm’s qualifications while taking into account the contract price proposed relative to the work to 
be performed. Staff reviewed the five proposals and selected Sandis based on their proposal. Sandis’s scope, schedule, and 
qualifications best align with the City’s needs. Therefore, staff recommends awarding an agreement to Sandis to perform 
the design services for this Project for an amount not to exceed $290,980. A contingency reserve of $29,100 (10% of the 
contract amount) is recommended to cover any unforeseen changes during the design process. 
Because the Project is being completed with ATP grant funds, which have a “timely use of funds” requirement, the City is 
working toward completing the design for this Project by October 2024 to meet the construction fund allocation deadline 
requirement in early 2025. Grant funds for preliminary engineering (design) are limited to $260,000, with a total Project 
design cost of approximately $380,080. There is a Project deficit of $28,000, when including the Project 467008 transfer of 
$92,400. To cover this deficit, staff recommends an appropriation of $28,000 from the City‘s Measure A funds and a 
transfer of $92,400 from the Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 1 Project. Please see Table 1. Design Cost Breakdown 
below for additional detail. 
Table 1. Design Cost Breakdown 
* rounded to the nearest thousandth
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in the City’s Measure A funds and the Citywide Street Reconstruction Package 1 (467008) Project 
for the recommended appropriation in the amount of $28,000 to cover increased design costs since the Project was 
initially estimated and budget transfer in the amount of $92,400 to cover pavement rehabilitation design costs. With the 
supplemental funding from the appropriation and budget transfer, the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor 
(46r022) Project will have sufficient available budget to fully fund the agreement, contingency reserve, staff costs, and 
locally funded Project components. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
23 of 268

--- page 24 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
Att 3 – Bicycle Network Facilities 
STAFF CONTACT
Sang Hee Cho, Associate Engineer
scho@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7348
Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer
blopez@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7313
24 of 268

--- page 25 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. 
(2023)
APPROVING AN APPROPRIATION IN THE AMOUNT OF $28,000 FROM THE CITY’S MEASURE A 
FUNDS AND AUTHORIZING A BUDGET TRANSFER IN THE AMOUNT OF $92,400 FROM THE 
CITYWIDE STREET RECONSTRUCTION PACKAGE 1 PROJECT TO THE DELAWARE STREET SAFE 
ROUTES TO SCHOOL CORRIDOR BICYCLE PROJECT IN THE CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
WHEREAS, at the September 8, 2020 City Council meeting, Council approved a letter of 
support to apply for $1,661,000 in California Transportation Commission Active Transportation 
Program (ATP) Cycle 5 grant funding for the Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor Project; 
and
WHEREAS, in June 2021, the California Transportation Commission awarded the City 
$1,661,000 in ATP Cycle 5 grant funding to complete the environmental, design, right-of-way, 
and construction phases for the Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor Project; and
WHEREAS, on October 2, 2023, City Council adopted a resolution to accept the grant 
funds and authorized the City Manager to execute the necessary funding agreements; and 
WHEREAS, design costs in the amount of $380,080 are needed for the Delaware Safe 
Routes to School Corridor Project; and
WHEREAS, the accepted grant funds are limited to $260,000 for preliminary engineering 
costs and additional funding appropriation to the Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor 
Project is required to supplement project design components that were not in the original grant 
application such as pavement and curb ramp improvements; and
WHEREAS, staff recommends an appropriation in the amount of $28,000 from the City’s 
Measure A funds and a budget transfer in the amount of $92,400 from the Citywide Street 
Reconstruction Package 1 Project to the Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor Project in the 
Capital Projects Fund.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and 
RESOLVES that:
1. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 
15301, this project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility” because 
it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or 
minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical 
equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing 
or former use.
2. An appropriation in the amount of $28,000 in the City’s Measure A funds to the 
25 of 268

--- page 26 ---
Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor (46r022) Project in the Capital Projects Fund is 
approved.
3. A budget transfer in the amount of $92,400 from the Citywide Street Reconstruction 
Package 1 (467008) Project to the Delaware Safe Routes to School Corridor (46r022) 
Project in the Capital Projects Fund is approved.
26 of 268

--- page 27 ---
Design Professional Services 2022 
 
Page 1 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH SANDIS CIVIL ENGINEERS SURVEYORS PLANNERS 
FOR DESIGN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
FOR 
Delaware Street Safe Routes to School Corridor Bicycle Improvements Project 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and SANDIS CIVIL ENGINEERS SURVEYORS PLANNERS, a corporation, (“CONSULTANT”), 
whose address is 636 9th St, Oakland, CA 94607: 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain professional design services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional design services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
27 of 268

--- page 28 ---
Design Professional Services 2022 
 
Page 2 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence upon execution of the 
Agreement and be completed by December 31, 2026. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $290,980, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
28 of 268

--- page 29 ---
Design Professional Services 2022 
 
Page 3 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent CONSULTANT as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or willful misconduct to the maximum extent permitted 
by state law.  To the extent permitted by Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONSULTANT’S 
duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
29 of 268

--- page 30 ---
Design Professional Services 2022 
 
Page 4 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
 
SECTION 16 – SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
sub-consultants shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
30 of 268

--- page 31 ---
Design Professional Services 2022 
 
Page 5 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Sang Hee Cho 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA, 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Sandis Civil Engineers Surveyors Planners
Attn:  Nate Levine 
636 9th St 
Oakland, CA, 94607 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
31 of 268

--- page 32 ---
Design Professional Services 2022 
 
Page 6 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONSULTANT have executed this Agreement the day and year 
first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Brad Underwood 
Interim Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Jeff Setera 
Its Authorized Agent 
President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
Tony Brubaker 
CFO 
 
Date 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
32 of 268

--- page 33 ---
Design Professional Services 2022 
 
Page 7 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
 
33 of 268

--- page 34 ---
S C O P E  O F  W O R K  
 
 
 
 EXHIBIT A: SCOPE OF SERVICES 
Task 1 - Project Management and Coordination 
Upon NTP, Our team will schedule a kick-off meeting to establish lines of communication with City staff to discuss scope of work, 
schedule, and budget. We will also request and compile available information from the City ahead of developing a Detailed Work 
Plan to confirm alignment with the City’s goals for the project. We will meet with City staff regularly and will provide project 
management services, including meeting agendas and notes, maintaining the project schedule and budget, invoices, and regular 
communication with the City. Our services will induce the following: 
• 
Ensure efficient, coordinated project development high-quality delivery within budget and on schedule. Manage the project, 
including subconsultants, and keep the City informed. Represent the City, with approval, in communications with external 
agencies. 
• 
Provide key personnel as proposed, no reassignment without City approval. Submit monthly progress reports, including 
completed activities, upcoming tasks, issues, mitigation actions, project decisions, updated schedule, budget status, work 
completion, and essential project details. 
• 
Submit baseline and monthly progress schedules, highlighting key permits and approvals needed for design and 
construction facilitation. 
• 
Participate in virtual and in-person meetings with the City, including kick-off, bi-weekly progress reviews, design submittal 
presentations, and other meetings as outlined in the scope of services. 
 
Deliverables: 
• Scope of work 
• Schedule 
• Budget/Invoices 
Task 2 - Community Outreach and Engagement 
Leshner Planning & Transportation (LPT) will lead Task 2 in close coordination with City Staff as well as support from the larger 
Sandis team, with the goals of raising awareness about the project, gathering information on existing conditions, evaluating 
potential improvements, and overall, developing a community-supported project. 
Task 2.1 Community Engagement Plan 
As a first step, LPT will review relevant recent community engagement activities and summaries from other planning efforts 
such as the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. LPT will then work collaboratively with City Staff and Sandis to develop an engagement 
plan that meaningfully engages key stakeholders (e.g., local businesses, schools) and community members and sets the 
project up to be responsive to community needs. The public engagement plan will identify specific engagement tools, events, 
approaches to advertising events/tools, etc., to support the project. 
We anticipate planning 2-3 engagement phases to collect feedback on: 
1. Existing conditions, gaps, opportunities 
2. Potential proposed improvements 
3. The draft project 
(Note: tasks 1 & 2 may be combined based on feedback from City staff.) We assume that the final engagement plan will be based 
on one round of consolidated comments on a draft engagement plan. 
Task 2.2 Community Engagement Activities 
For scoping purposes, we have assumed the following activities, which will be refined and finalized as part of developing the 
Community Engagement Plan in Task 2.1: 
 
• 
Stakeholder meetings – LPT will plan and lead two (2) meetings with relevant stakeholder groups such as local schools 
(i.e., Fiesta Gardens International School and George Hall Elementary School) and/or businesses (e.g., SurveyMonkey). We 
assume one meeting would occur virtually and one would occur in person. 
• 
Workshops (2) – LPT will plan for and lead one (1) virtual and one (1) in-person 2-hour workshop (or public meeting), with 
day of support from City staff and Sandis staff. 
34 of 268

--- page 35 ---
S C O P E  O F  W O R K  
 
• 
Outreach materials – LPT will develop outreach materials (e.g., graphics, flyers) based on Sandis’s drawings, with 
input/review from City Staff. 
 
• 
Project webpage content – LPT will work with Sandis to develop website copy and images/documents to post to the City’s 
website to inform the community about the overall project and provide project updates. We assume preparing up to 2 
website copy/materials updates. 
 
Task 2.3 Documentation 
LPT will summarize and analyze feedback from participants at the conclusion of the community engagement process and 
document outreach activities, findings, and results in summary memorandum. The final outreach memo will be based on one 
round of consolidated comments on the draft memo. 
 
Optional Task 2A – Demonstration project 
If selected by the City, the Sandis team can develop a detailed scope and fee estimate for planning and implementing a 
demonstration project, e.g., temporary Class IV separated bikeway. This type of event would help show the community what a 
potential proposed project would look like and how it would operate and could help educate the public about a newer bikeway 
facility type. 
 
Optional Task 2B – Standalone project website 
If selected by the City, our team can develop a specific scope and fee to create a standalone project website with additional 
functionality such as a map survey tools, comment collection, text message surveys, and more. The project website would serve 
as a virtual open house, and offer interactive features to engagement the community and solicit feedback. In our experience, 
this type of website may be beneficial for the project but not an outright requirement. Our team recommends discussing and 
refining the needs/goals of the website upon selection or at the project kick off. 
 
Optional Task 2C – Pop-up events 
If selected by the City, LPT will plan and lead two (2) in-person pop-up events with support from Sandis staff. Pop-up events or 
tabling at local events could occur at the Hillsdale Caltrain Station, Bay Meadows Park, the County Event Center or other local 
gathering places in the study area. 
 
Optional Task 2D – Online survey 
If selected by the City, LPT will develop an online survey to collect feedback on existing conditions and/or proposed 
improvements. Once the survey is closed, LPT will summarize survey results. 
 
Task 3 – Caltrans Approval (ROW Authorization) 
Sandis will prepare complete Plans, Specifications, and Estimates for work within Caltrans right of way so that the 
improvements at S Delaware St and 19th Ave can be reviewed, approved, and permitted by Caltrans for construction, if 
needed. It is assumed that these improvements would be limited to striping only, and would provide a transition from the 
Class IV facility on Delaware, to the intersection, as part of an interim condition We assume that only 1-2 plan sheets would be 
required for this.  
Task 4 – Site Investigations including Geotechnical, Survey, and Utility Potholing 
Our team will conduct preliminary site investigations that support the design and construction of project improvements, 
related to the sidewalks, intersections, and roadway. 
This includes the following: 
Task 4.1 Geotechnical Investigations and Recommendations 
Ninyo & Moore will provide subsurface exploration consisting of four borings up to 5 feet deep and preparation of a 
geotechnical report with recommendations for replacement pavement/sections for a determined traffic index. It is assumed 
that boring permits will not be needed due to the depth of exploration and encroachment permits for the exploration will be 
provided at no cost to Ninyo & Moore. Costs for analytical testing, exploration traffic control, and drilling subcontractor have  
 
35 of 268

--- page 36 ---
S C O P E  O F  W O R K  
 
been added as reimbursable expenses. Recommendations will include specific locations and treatment types and are 
assumed to be the following: 
 
• 
19th to Pacific (PCI 38) – 2” Grind and Overlay with 6” Deep Base Repairs 
• 
Pacific to 450’ south of 25th Ave (PCI 61) – 2” Grind and Overlay 
• 
450’ south of 25th Ave to 28th Ave (PCI 69) – Slurry 
 
 Work related to this task will be tracked and invoiced under a unique task, Task 4.1 
 
Task 4.2– Topographical Survey and Base Mapping 
Sandis will perform a topographic field survey to gather the necessary information and detail for the design of the Project 
along S Delaware St, between 19th Ave and Pacific Blvd. The boundary shall establish City right-of-way and be used to confirm 
that all improvements are within the City’s right-of-way. Sandis will use an aerial drone to collect information for the overall 
corridor; a topographic field survey will occur at the signalized intersections or at locations where new curb ramps will be 
provided. It is assumed that detailed elevations and underground information are not needed outside of the intersection/curb 
ramp improvement locations.  
Existing right of way will be based upon available maps and deeds on file in the County public records and Caltrans maps. We 
will include and show plottable easements, if any, and right-of-way lines with length and bearing (including reference on basis) 
on each boundary course. A Preliminary Title Report with referenced documents will be ordered if needed. 
Sandis will conduct fieldwork, office calculations, and drafting to produce a topographic survey of the project area at a 1” = 
20’ Scale. This survey will show the location and sizes of existing trees (Driplines will be assumed), grade breaks, high 
points, low points signs, fences, walls, buildings, striping, driveways, walkways, drainages, structures, lights, poles, bollards, 
vegetated or landscaped areas (including bushes, etc), USA markings, vaults, valves, meters, boxes, pedestals, cleanouts, 
manholes, drain inlets, catch basins, culverts, outfalls, and standpipes within the project area(s). Field measurements of 
inverts of accessible and unobstructed visible catch basins, area drains, storm drain manholes, and sanitary sewer manholes 
will be shown. 
Elevation spot grades and/or the combination of contours will be shown at one (1) foot intervals or as appropriate to clearly 
define the slopes. Elevations collected by ground surveys will be shown to an accuracy of 0.01’ (one hundredth) of a foot. 
Heavily brushed areas will be defined at the perimeter. Brush clearing will be the responsibility of the client if ground 
elevations need to be collected in those areas. Existing elevations shall be shown at a maximum of 100-foot cross sections. 
Spot elevations shall be shown at all points of vertical or horizontal change (grade break). Elevations will be based on available 
NGS or locally published benchmarks. 
Utility information will be based on surface evidence located in the field and the solicitation of the records of the various utility 
providers. Sandis will coordinate directly with the utility providers to achieve this. Sandis will issue an underground service 
alert to field-verify the data provided by various utilities, particularly where there may be conflicts with proposed pole and 
conduit locations. 
Mechanical detection of existing high-risk utilities will also be provided. Potholing can be provided at an additional expense. 
We recommend utilizing non-invasive utility locating methods first, utilizing potholing at critical and congested locations. 
 
Deliverables: 
• Geotechnical report 
• Topographic base map including utility information 
• Utility report 
Task 5 – Preliminary Engineering 
30% Design Plans 
Task 5 will include preparing 30% design plans (PDF) which will encompass plan layouts, typical sections, details, and budget- 
level construction cost estimates. The outcomes of Task 2 (Community Outreach and Engagement) and the selected design 
and operations alternative will be integrated into the preliminary engineering phase. Additionally, our team will explore 
connections to existing or potential future bicycle facilities within the city, including but not limited to 28th Avenue (between 
El Camino Real and Delaware Street) and 19th Avenue (between Pacific Boulevard and Fashion Island Boulevard). 
36 of 268

--- page 37 ---
S C O P E  O F  W O R K  
 
Sandis will prepare a Basis of Design to support and document design decisions used to prepare the 30% Design Plans. Our 
process will consist of the following: 
• Identify site constraints, including necessary curb ramp replacements, areas of ponding, impacts to private driveways, 
and other improvements to support successful reconstruction. 
• Identify existing utility conflicts and suggest utility relocation as needed, coordinating with third-party utilities 
in accordance with franchise agreements and addressing potential schedule impacts. 
• Create 30% design drawings outlining proposed improvements and work limits. 
• Determine the scope of traffic signal modifications required for the preferred alternative and provide preliminary 
layouts. Preliminary signal layouts will be based on utility research and locating to mitigate or identify utility conflicts. 
• Design bicycle facilities and connections, specifying materials (or parking separation) for separating vehicles 
and bicyclists. 
• Incorporate the above into a Basis of Design (BOD) and conduct a workshop attended by Public Works management 
for acceptance before proceeding with detailed design work. 
Deliverables: 
• 30% design submittal including plans, specifications outline, and cost estimate 
• Basis of Design (BOD) report 
• Technical review workshop agenda and minutes 
 
Task 6 – Preparation of Detailed Plans, Specifications, and Cost Estimates (PS&E) for Construction 
Sandis will advance the 30% design plan layout, as developed in Task 5, to the final construction documents. This process 
will involve creating 90% and final construction contract documents. Each submittal will include plans, specifications, and 
estimates. Sandis will utilize City of San Mateo bidding documents (bid list) throughout the process. 
The design documents will encompass all necessary traffic signal modifications essential for the existing traffic signals to 
function properly, as identified in the preferred design alternative selected during Task 5. 
This includes an array of critical components, such as upgrades to signal poles and mast arms, the implementation of multi- 
modal detection systems, emergency vehicle preemption, and potentially closed-circuit television (CCTV). The plan set will 
include information on existing traffic signal cabinets and their contents, conduits, conductors, and phase diagrams. 
Furthermore, the consultant will address the civil engineering aspects required to implement the signal operations and other 
corridor improvements outlined in the preferred scenario. 
This may include improvements such as: 
• 
Median cutback 
• 
Pedestrian refuges 
• 
Pavement restoration/rehabilitation 
• 
New or reconstructed ADA curb ramps, 
• 
Class IV Separation 
We assume that following plans (but not limited to) will be needed: 
• 
Demolition Plans 
• 
Layout Plans (Pavement Improvements Extents) 
• 
Grading Plans 
• 
Electrical and Signal Plans 
• 
Signing and Striping Plans 
• 
Construction Details 
 
 
 
 
37 of 268

--- page 38 ---
S C O P E  O F  W O R K  
 
 
We assumed that the City’s Traffic Consultant will prepare signal timing cards for any changes to the corridor signal phasing 
and timing. Sandis will coordinate with the Traffic Consultant to ensure that the design and operations are congruent. 
Depending on the selected layout and improvements, stormwater management and treatment may be needed. Sandis is 
experienced with treatment requirements and practices and can provide this, if identified, as an additional service. 
Our work approach for Task 6 is the following: 
• 
Communicate with various agencies and utility companies as necessary to obtain information, and coordinate 
other activities required to complete the scope of services. 
• 
Present in-progress plans at the biweekly progress meetings with the City, if requested. 
• 
Prepare and submit plans, specifications, and cost estimates for the 90% design development milestones. 
• 
Prepare for and facilitate a design review with City staff. 
• 
Prepare and submit final construction contract documents incorporating all comments from previous reviews. 
• 
Prepare plans using AutoCAD and plot at appropriate scales on 22-inch x 34-inch sheets. 
• 
Write specifications in the format of Caltrans standard specifications 2018 version. The City will provide standard 
City general conditions for consultant’s use.  Prepare all special provisions and technical specifications required for 
construction in a manner that integrates clearly with City and Caltrans specifications. Review general conditions and 
coordinate any proposed changes with City. This project may utilize federal funds for construction; write specifications 
accordingly. 
• 
Develop a schedule of bid items to address all required contract work and prepare clear specifications for 
measurement and payment. Provisions for alternate items may be considered as an approach to keep the project 
within budget. 
• 
Identify any physical work required for project implementation outside of the construction contract and provide 
recommendations for procurement methods. 
• 
We assume that consolidated comments will be issued after each City review. Sandis will provide responses to these 
comments as part of the subsequent submittal. 
 
Deliverables: 
• 90% PS&E submittals in electronic format (MS Word, Excel, and PDF) 
• Technical review workshop/meeting 
• Final bid documents: submit original stamped drawings and complete contract book including bid documents, 
general conditions and special provisions in electronic format (MS Word and PDF, plans in AutoCAD and PDF) 
• Final quantity estimates, quantity calculation sheets, final construction cost estimate submitted in the format 
of the schedule of bid items in electronic format (MS Word and PDF), including detailed construction cost 
estimate documentation 
• Other documentation as needed to clarify design and contract approach 
Task 7 – Bidding Support 
Our team will provide support during the bidding process, including but not limited to attending the pre-bid meeting, and 
preparing draft addenda or clarifications documents. 
Deliverables: 
• Contract addenda, if needed, for distribution by City 
• Written responses to bidder’s questions for distribution by City during bid phase 
Potential Additional Tasks 
The following task can be provided as an Alternate or Additional service, if requested.  
 
  Alternate Task 1 – Engineering Services During Construction 
Sandis can provide design support during the construction of the project, including but not limited to attending the pre- 
construction meeting, assisting with review and preparation of responses to contractor Requests for Information, assisting  
 
38 of 268

--- page 39 ---
S C O P E  O F  W O R K  
 
with review and preparation of responses to contractor submittals, assisting with preparation of contract change orders, 
participating in the final walk through, and assisting with preparation of the punch list. Construction Support. 
• Attend the pre-construction meeting to respond to questions concerning the PS&E 
• Review and prepare response to Request for Information (RFI) from the contractor 
• Review the Contractors submittals and shop drawings for compatibility with design 
• Assist the City in preparing the Contract Change Orders (CCO), if needed 
• Participate in the final walk-through of the constructed project 
• Perform final review/evaluation and assist with the preparation of the punch list of work deficiencies 
• Prepare Record Drawings (As-builts) 
39 of 268

--- page 40 ---
Design Professional Services 2022 
 
Page 8 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT RATES 
 
 
40 of 268

--- page 41 ---
Leshner Planning & 
Transportation
Sandis
PIC/QAQC
Sandis
PM
Sandis
PE
Sandis
DE
Sandis
Eng. Tech
Sandis
Survey PM
Sandis
Proj Surveyor
Principal
Project 
Manager
Senior Staff
Admin
Assistant
Lab
Technician
Principal
Fee Allowance
 
 
 
 
 
 
2023 Hourly Charge Rate*
$300
$215
$170
$130
$135
$215
$145
$220
$195
$180
$75
$110
$195
Task 1 Project Management and Coordination
116
$24,400
Schedule Updates
2
10
10
22
$4,450
Budgeting/Invoicing
2
12
14
$3,180
Project Meetings and Support
4
50
10
16
80
$16,770
Task 2 Community Outreach and Engagement
242
$43,330
2.1 - Prepare outreach plan
4
16
20
$3,980
2.2 - Stakeholder meetings and Workshops (2 each)
28
6
44
78
$15,410
2.2 - Project website content and materials (Concepts)
20
16
28
36
20
120
$19,420
2.3 - Documentation
4
4
16
24
$4,520
Task 3 Caltrans Approval (ROW Authorization)
20
$3,260
3.1 - Caltrans Permitting and Support
4
8
8
20
$3,260
Task 4 Site Investigations including Geotechnical, Survey, and 
Utility Potholing
150
$69,950
4.1 - Geotechnical Investigations, Testing and Report
5
20
20
6
21
$5,500
72
$16,860
4.2 - Topographical Survey and Base Mapping 
8
32
18
16
$30,000
74
$42,230
4.2 - Utility Locating and Pot Holing Allowance
4
$10,000
4
$10,860
Task 5 Preliminary Engineering
278
$44,350
5.1 - 30% Design
4
32
48
68
60
212
$33,180
5.2 - Basis of Design
2
18
18
28
66
$11,170
Task 6 Preparation of Detailed Plans, Specs, and Cost Estimate 
for Construction
635
$99,570
6.1 - 90% PS&E
4
62
104
140
92
402
$62,830
6.2- 100% PS&E
4
30
48
66
48
196
$30,870
6.3 - Pavement Rehabilitation Design
1
6
8
10
12
37
$5,870
Task 7 Bidding Support
36
$6,520
Contract Addenda
8
4
4
16
$2,920
RFI Response and Support
8
8
4
20
$3,600
Totals
23
308
282
356
290
18
16
5
20
20
6
21
112
1477
$285,880
Project Expenses
$2,000
$2,000
 Outreach Materials
$3,100
$3,100
Total
$290,980
Optional Tasks
Task 2.A: Pop-up Events (2)
$5,000
$5,000
Alt. Task 1 - Engineering Services During Construction
$30,000
$30,000
Totals
$35,000
Notes:
1. Hours and staff assignments may be adjusted by the consultant as needed to implement the tasks described during the course of the project.
2. Rates are subject to annual rate adjustments
CITY OF SAN MATEO DELAWARE STREET SAFE ROUTES TO 
SCHOOL CORRIDOR BIKE INSTRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Task 
Hours
check
Total Task Fee
Sandis
Ninyo & Moore
check
41 of 268

--- page 42 ---
Design Professional Services 2022 
 
Page 9 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall 
be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
42 of 268

--- page 43 ---
Design Professional Services 2022 
 
Page 10 of 10 
Rev 9/22 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
43 of 268

--- page 44 ---
SHARED-USE PATH (CLASS 1)
•	Two-way facility that is physically separated from motor vehicle traffic
•	Used by bicyclists, pedestrians, and other non-motorized users
•	May not serve all destinations directly
BIKE BOX
•	 Dedicated space between the crosswalk and vehicle stop line where bicyclists can 
wait during the red light at signalized intersections 
•	Improves visibility and motorists’ awareness of bicyclists at intersections
SEPARATED BIKE LANE (CLASS 4)
•	A bicycle-only facility that is physically separated from motor vehicle traffic and 
distinct from the sidewalk 
•	Appropriate on streets with medium or high traffic volumes and/or speeds
WAYFINDING 
•	Typically includes signage and pavement markings
•	Helps bicyclists identify the best routes to destinations and to connecting routes
•	May include distances or travel times to destinations
BIKE LANE (CLASS 2)
•	Provides exclusive space for bicyclists in the roadway; designated by pavement 
markings and signage
•	Buffered bike lanes increase comfort by adding a painted buffer to a standard 
bike lane
•	Appropriate on streets with low or medium traffic volumes
BIKE DETECTION/PUSH BUTTON
•	 Bicycle detectors are located in the street at intersections and trigger a green light 
for bicyclists who wait above the detector marking
•	Bicycle pushbuttons are located on signal poles within reach of a bicyclist waiting 
in the roadway; the buttons trigger a green light for bicyclists once pushed (similar 
to pedestrian pushbuttons)
BICYCLE BOULEVARD (CLASS 3)
•	Prioritize bicycle through-travel 
•	Use traffic calming to slow vehicle traffic and maintain low motor vehicle volumes
•	Often applied on quiet streets, in neighborhoods
PAINTED CONFLICT MARKINGS
•	Painted pavement markings can improve visibility of bike lanes at intersections 
•	Alerts all roadway users of expected behaviors to reduce conflicts with turning 
vehicles and at driveways
RURAL ROUTE (CLASS 3)
•	Provide shoulders to accommodate bicyclists
•	Supplement with warning signage and wayfinding 
•	Located in rural areas where dedicated bicycle facilities will not fit, or would be 
inappropriate given the surrounding context 
RECTANGULAR RAPID FLASHING BEACONS (RRFB)
•	 RRFBs combine a crossing warning sign with a bright flashing beacon that is 
activated only when a bicyclist or pedestrian is present
•	Increases motorists’ yielding compliance and bicyclist and pedestrian visibility 
These bicycle facilities and improvements are a part of the bicycle planning “toolbox” and will be considered as a part of the San Mateo Bicycle Master 
Plan recommendations.
 Bicycle Network Facilities
San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan
44 of 268

--- page 45 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5112
File ID: 23-8180
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
December 04, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Police Vehicle Computer Replacement – Purchase 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the use of an alternative purchasing procedure and Master Purchasing Agreement and 
Participating Addendum with CDWG for the purchase of 56 Panasonic laptops per the City’s computer replacement 
schedule in the amount of $252,996.21and 40 Havis laptop docking stations in the amount of $27,582.65 for a total 
amount of $280,578.86; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
Each of the Police Department’s patrol vehicles have an in-car computer, which are Panasonic CF-33 ‘Toughbook’ style 
laptops. Our City’s replacement strategy for computers is to replace after five years in service to mitigate potential 
maintenance issues, support problems, and to keep the equipment current with industry standards. The CF-33s were 
purchased in April, 2018, and are past due for replacement. The Police Department has identified the Panasonic FZ-55 
laptop as the optimal device, aligning with policing industry best practices for in-car computers. In addition to the new 
laptops, new docking stations, that hold the laptop and enable their usage in the patrol vehicles, are also needed. Havis 
docking stations have been identified by staff as the optimal hardware to meet this need.
 
Staff obtained the quotation for the proposed purchase through a purchasing cooperative known as the National 
Intergovernmental Purchasing Alliance (NIPA) with the City of Mesa, Arizona as the lead agency. NIPA contracts allow 
participants to pay less through competitively solicited, evaluated, and awarded contracts that leverage the cooperative 
buying power of local government agencies, avoiding costs normally associated with the development of highly technical 
bid specifications, while assuring that competitive prices were received. CDWG is a participating vendor under NIPA 
contract #2018011-01 and is recommended because the quality of its customer support and services, its efficient warranty 
and replacement policy, and because its products have proven to be of high quality and are stable and reliable.
Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use any purchasing procedures approved by the City 
Council, if the City Council makes a finding concurrent with the award of the contract that the procedures are in the best 
interest of the City. Utilizing NIPA’s procurement service is in the best interest of the City because it offers competitively 
priced contracts for goods and services, allows the City to avoid costs normally associated with the development of highly 
technical bid specifications, and assures that competitive prices are received. Based on the above, staff recommends 
approving the purchase of 56 laptop computers pursuant to the Master Purchasing Agreement and Participating 
Addendum with CDWG for an amount not to exceed $252,996.21; and 40 docking stations in an amount not to exceed 
$27,581.65.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funds have been accrued and are available for the laptop computers and docking stations through the City’s Computer 
45 of 268

--- page 46 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Replacement Fund (Fund 81) for the purchase, which includes a 5-year warranty.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1 – Proposed Resolution
Attachment 2 – CDWG Quote for Panasonic Laptops
Attachment 3 – CDWG Quote for Havis Docking Stations
Attachment 4 – City of Mesa, AZ, NIPA Agreement and Amendments
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Matt Lethin, Lieutenant
mlethin@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7663
46 of 268

--- page 47 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF PURCHASE ORDERS TO 
CDWG FOR PURCHASE OF REPLACEMENT IN-CAR COMPUTERS ($252,996.21) 
AND DOCKING STATIONS ($27,582.65) FOR POLICE PATROL VEHICLES
WHEREAS, the City replaces computer hardware on an ongoing basis once it has reached its operational 
lifespan of five (5) years; and 
WHEREAS, the City has identified that the Panasonic laptop computers inside the Police Department’s 
patrol vehicles have reached the end of their operational life per the replacement schedule; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use purchasing procedures 
approved by the City Council if the Council makes a finding that the procedures are in the best interest of the 
City; and
WHEREAS, as a public sector agency, the City may participate in the National Intergovernmental 
Purchasing Alliance (NIPA) which offers contracts that have been competitively bid and negotiated; and
WHEREAS, CDWG is a participating vendor under the current NIPA contract; and
WHEREAS, CDWG is the preferred vendor due to the quality of its customer support and services; and 
WHEREAS, the Department of Information Technology and Police Department have determined the 
Panasonic FZ-55 laptops and Havis docking stations purchased from CDWG best meets the City’s needs.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
2.
Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), the purchase of Panasonic FZ-55 laptops and Havis 
docking stations from CDWG through the National Intergovernmental Purchasing Alliance (NIPA) is in 
the best interest of the City because the NIPA procurement service officers competitively priced 
contracts for goods and services; and avoids costs normally associated with the development of highly 
technical bid specifications, while assuring the competitive prices were received. 
3.
The Chief of Police is authorized to issue purchase orders to CDWG in the amounts of $252,996.21 
(laptops) and $27,582.65 (docking stations) and execute related documents for the replacement of 
computers and docking stations inside patrol vehicles. 
47 of 268

--- page 48 ---
Hardware
Software
Services
IT Solutions
Brands
Research Hub
QUOTE CONFIRMATION
Thank you for choosing CDW. We have received your quote.
CURTIS JOE,
Thank you for considering CDW•G for your technology needs. The details of your quote are below. If 
you are an eProcurement or single sign on customer, please log into your system to access 
the CDW site. You can search for your quote to retrieve and transfer back into your system for 
processing.
For all other customers, click below to convert your quote to an order.
Convert Quote to Order 
QUOTE #
QUOTE DATE
QUOTE REFERENCE
CUSTOMER #
GRAND TOTAL
NPZP911
10/30/2023
NPZP911
6671948
$252,996.21
IMPORTANT - PLEASE READ
Fees applied to item(s):   7530155
QUOTE DETAILS
ITEM
QTY
CDW#
UNIT PRICE
EXT. PRICE
Panasonic Toughbook 55 - 14" - Intel Core i5 1145G7 - vPro - 
16 GB RAM - 51
56
7530155
$2,898.00
$162,288.00
Mfg. Part#: FZ-55FZ-4WAM
Contract: National IPA Technology Solutions (2018011-01)
LIND PA1580-1642 - car power adapter - 120 Watt
56
2090640
$129.00
$7,224.00
Mfg. Part#: CF-LNDDC120
UNSPSC: 39121006
Contract: National IPA Technology Solutions (2018011-01)
Panasonic Public Sector Service Package - extended service 
agreement - 2 ye
56
4195499
$549.00
$30,744.00
Mfg. Part#: CF-SVCPSY5
UNSPSC: 81112307
Electronic distribution - NO MEDIA
Contract: National IPA Technology Solutions (2018011-01)
Panasonic FZ-VZSU1HUIS - notebook battery - Li-Ion - 6500 
mAh
56
6677954
$181.93
$10,188.08
Mfg. Part#: FZ-VZSU1HUIS
Contract: National IPA Technology Solutions (2018011-01)
Panasonic Smart Battery Warranty - extended service 
agreement - 5 years - y
56
6700714
$349.00
$19,544.00
Mfg. Part#: CF-SVCBATX2SW5Y
5 YEAR DUAL SMART BATT WARR W/ SVCS
SMART BATT MONITORING SOFTWARE
Electronic distribution - NO MEDIA
Contract: National IPA Technology Solutions (2018011-01)
48 of 268

--- page 49 ---
Page 2 of 3
QUOTE DETAILS (CONT.)
PAN 5YR B2M SMART COMB YR 1-5
56
6518127
$98.00
$5,488.00
Mfg. Part#: CF-SVCB2MCMB5Y
5YR B2M SMART SUITE COMB SUB SVCS
SVC INCL SMARTBATT MNTRNG SMART DV
Electronic distribution - NO MEDIA
Contract: National IPA Technology Solutions (2018011-01)
RECYCLING FEE DETAILS
ITEM
QTY
CDW#
UNIT PRICE
EXT. PRICE
RECYCLING FEE 4" TO LESS THAN 15"
Fee Applied to Item: 7530155
56
654809
$4.00
$224.00
SUBTOTAL
$235,476.08
SHIPPING
$0.00
RECYCLING FEE
$224.00
SALES TAX
$17,296.13
GRAND TOTAL
$252,996.21 
PURCHASER BILLING INFO
DELIVER TO
Billing Address:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STEVE ENGLE
330 W 20TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1388
Phone: (650) 522-7062
Payment Terms: NET 30-VERBAL
Shipping Address:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CURTIS JOE
330 W 20TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1388
Phone: (650) 522-7062
Shipping Method: UPS Ground (2-3 days)
Please remit payments to:
CDW Government
75 Remittance Drive
Suite 1515
Chicago, IL 60675-1515
Sales Contact Info 
Kenny Stoller   |  (877) 246-8092 | kennsto@cdwg.com
LEASE OPTIONS
FMV TOTAL
FMV LEASE OPTION
BO TOTAL
BO LEASE OPTION
$235,700.08
$6,255.48/Month
$235,700.08
$7,243.06/Month
Monthly payment based on 36 month lease. Other terms and options are available. Contact your Account Manager for details. Payment quoted
is subject to change.    
Why finance?   
• Lower Upfront Costs. Get the products you need without impacting cash flow. Preserve your working capital and existing credit line. 
• Flexible Payment Terms. 100% financing with no money down, payment deferrals and payment schedules that match your company's
business cycles. 
• Predictable, Low Monthly Payments. Pay over time. Lease payments are fixed and can be tailored to your budget levels or revenue streams. 
• Technology Refresh. Keep current technology with minimal financial impact or risk. Add-on or upgrade during the lease term and choose to
return or purchase the equipment at end of lease. 
49 of 268

--- page 50 ---
Page 3 of 3
• Bundle Costs. You can combine hardware, software, and services into a single transaction and pay for your software licenses over time! We
know your challenges and understand the need for flexibility.   
General Terms and Conditions:   
This quote is not legally binding and is for discussion purposes only. The rates are estimate only and are based on a collection of industry data
from numerous sources. All rates and financial quotes are subject to final review, approval, and documentation by our leasing partners.
Payments above exclude all applicable taxes. Financing is subject to credit approval and review of final equipment and services configuration.
Fair Market Value leases are structured with the assumption that the equipment has a residual value at the end of the lease term.
Need Help?
My Account
Support
Call 800.800.4239
About Us | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions 
This order is subject to CDW's Terms and Conditions of Sales and Service Projects at
http://www.cdwg.com/content/terms-conditions/product-sales.aspx
For more information, contact a CDW account manager
© 2023 CDW•G LLC, 200 N. Milwaukee Avenue, Vernon Hills, IL 60061 | 800.808.4239
50 of 268

--- page 51 ---
Hardware
Software
Services
IT Solutions
Brands
Research Hub
QUOTE CONFIRMATION
Thank you for choosing CDW. We have received your quote.
CURTIS JOE,
Thank you for considering CDW•G for your technology needs. The details of your quote are below. If 
you are an eProcurement or single sign on customer, please log into your system to access 
the CDW site. You can search for your quote to retrieve and transfer back into your system for 
processing.
For all other customers, click below to convert your quote to an order.
Convert Quote to Order 
QUOTE #
QUOTE DATE
QUOTE REFERENCE
CUSTOMER #
GRAND TOTAL
NQBC847
10/31/2023
NQBC847
6671948
$27,581.65
QUOTE DETAILS
ITEM
QTY
CDW#
UNIT PRICE
EXT. PRICE
Panasonic Docking Station for TOUGHBOOK Rugged Notebook
40
5864668
$629.00
$25,160.00
Mfg. Part#: HA-55LVD0
HAVIS DOCKING STATION FOR DOCK
TOUGHBOOK 54 AND 55 RUGGED LAPTOP
Contract: Sourcewell 081419-CDW Tech Catalog (081419#CDW)
SUBTOTAL
$25,160.00
SHIPPING
$0.00
SALES TAX
$2,421.65
GRAND TOTAL
$27,581.65 
PURCHASER BILLING INFO
DELIVER TO
Billing Address:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STEVE ENGLE
330 W 20TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1388
Phone: (650) 522-7062
Payment Terms: NET 30-VERBAL
Shipping Address:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CURTIS JOE
330 W 20TH AVE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403-1388
Phone: (650) 522-7062
Shipping Method: DROP SHIP-COMMON CARRIER
Please remit payments to:
CDW Government
75 Remittance Drive
Suite 1515
Chicago, IL 60675-1515
Sales Contact Info 
Kenny Stoller   |  (877) 246-8092 | kennsto@cdwg.com
LEASE OPTIONS
51 of 268

--- page 52 ---
Page 2 of 2
FMV TOTAL
FMV LEASE OPTION
BO TOTAL
BO LEASE OPTION
$25,160.00
$680.58/Month
$25,160.00
$784.24/Month
Monthly payment based on 36 month lease. Other terms and options are available. Contact your Account Manager for details. Payment quoted
is subject to change.    
Why finance?   
• Lower Upfront Costs. Get the products you need without impacting cash flow. Preserve your working capital and existing credit line. 
• Flexible Payment Terms. 100% financing with no money down, payment deferrals and payment schedules that match your company's
business cycles. 
• Predictable, Low Monthly Payments. Pay over time. Lease payments are fixed and can be tailored to your budget levels or revenue streams. 
• Technology Refresh. Keep current technology with minimal financial impact or risk. Add-on or upgrade during the lease term and choose to
return or purchase the equipment at end of lease. 
• Bundle Costs. You can combine hardware, software, and services into a single transaction and pay for your software licenses over time! We
know your challenges and understand the need for flexibility.   
General Terms and Conditions:   
This quote is not legally binding and is for discussion purposes only. The rates are estimate only and are based on a collection of industry data
from numerous sources. All rates and financial quotes are subject to final review, approval, and documentation by our leasing partners.
Payments above exclude all applicable taxes. Financing is subject to credit approval and review of final equipment and services configuration.
Fair Market Value leases are structured with the assumption that the equipment has a residual value at the end of the lease term.
Need Help?
My Account
Support
Call 800.800.4239
About Us | Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions 
This order is subject to CDW's Terms and Conditions of Sales and Service Projects at
http://www.cdwg.com/content/terms-conditions/product-sales.aspx
For more information, contact a CDW account manager
© 2023 CDW•G LLC, 200 N. Milwaukee Avenue, Vernon Hills, IL 60061 | 800.808.4239
52 of 268

--- page 53 ---
City of Mesa, AZ 
Contract # 2018011-01 
for 
Information Technology Solutions and Services 
with 
CDW Government, LLC 
Effective: March 1, 2018 
53 of 268

--- page 54 ---
The following documents comprise the executed contract between the City 
of Meza, AZ and CDW Government, LLC., effective March 1, 2018: 
I.
Executed Contract
II.
Mayor and Council Approval
III.
Supplier Response
IV.
Original RFP 
54 of 268

--- page 55 ---
OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK 
 
COUNCIL MINUTES 
 
  
February 5, 2018 
 
The City Council of the City of Mesa met in a Regular Council Meeting in the Council Chambers, 
57 East 1st Street, on February 5, 2018 at 5:45 p.m. 
 
COUNCIL PRESENT 
COUNCIL ABSENT 
OFFICERS PRESENT 
 
John Giles  
David Luna 
Mark Freeman 
Christopher Glover 
Francisco Heredia 
Kevin Thompson 
Jeremy Whittaker 
  
 
None 
 
 
Christopher Brady 
Dee Ann Mickelsen 
Jim Smith 
Mayor’s Welcome. 
 
Invocation by Pastor Ben Diaz with Palabra de Vida (Word of Life). 
 
Pledge of Allegiance was led by Councilmember Thompson.  
   
Awards, Recognitions and Announcements. 
 
There were no awards, recognitions or announcements. 
 
1. 
Take action on all consent agenda items.  
 
All items listed with an asterisk (*) will be considered as a group by the City Council and will be 
enacted with one motion. There will be no separate discussion of these items unless a 
Councilmember or citizen requests, in which event the item will be removed from the consent 
agenda and considered as a separate item. If a citizen wants an item removed from the consent 
agenda, a blue card must be completed and given to the City Clerk prior to the Council’s vote on 
the consent agenda. 
 
It was moved by Councilmember Thompson, seconded by Councilmember Glover, that the 
consent agenda items be approved. 
 Carried unanimously. 
 
*2. 
Approval of minutes from previous meetings as written. 
 
 
Minutes from the January 8, 11, and 22, 2018 Council meetings. 
 
 
55 of 268

--- page 56 ---
Regular Council Meeting 
February 5, 2018 
Page 2 
 
 
3. 
Take action on the following liquor license applications: 
 
 
*3-a. 
It Ain’t Chemo 
 
This is a one-day event to be held on Saturday, February 10, 2018 from 9:00 A.M. to 
9:00 P.M. at Riverview Park, 2100 West Rio Salado Parkway. (District 1) 
 
 
*3-b. 
AMC Superstition East 12 
 
A multi-screen cinema is requesting a new Series 6 Bar License for American Multi-
Cinema Inc., 1935 South Signal Butte Road - Andrea Dahlman Lewkowitz, agent. There 
is no existing license at this location. (District 6) 
 
 
*3-c. 
ATL Wings 
 
A restaurant that serves lunch and dinner is requesting a new Series 12 Restaurant 
License for Stapley Wings LLC, 1455 South Stapley Drive, Suites 22-24 - Andrea 
Dahlman Lewkowitz, agent. The existing license held by Mark Killian, sole proprietor, will 
revert to the State. (District 4) 
 
 
*3-d. 
Elgin Distillery 
 
This is a one-day craft distillery festival to be held on Saturday, March 3, 2018 from 9:00 
A.M. to 4:00 P.M. at Sunland Village, 4601 East Dolphin Avenue. (District 2) 
 
 
*3-e. 
Village of Elgin Winery 
 
This is a one-day wine festival event to be held on Saturday, March 3, 2018 from 9:00 
A.M. to 4:00 P.M. at Sunland Village, 4601 East Dolphin Avenue. (District 2) 
 
4. 
Take action on the following off-track betting license application: 
 
 
*4-a. 
Turf Paradise, TP Racing LLLP 
 
New Off-Track Betting License for Turf Paradise, TP Racing LLLP to telecast at Moose 
& Bear, located at 118 East McKellips Road, Suite 103, TB Concepts LLC. Applicant: 
Vincent Acri Francia. (District 1) 
 
  
5. 
Take action on the following contracts: 
 
*5-a. 
One-Year Renewal to the Term Contract for Executive Physicals for Citywide 
Departments as requested by the Human Resources Department. (Citywide) 
 
This contract provides annual physicals for the City’s executive staff as a means of 
maintaining optimum health. There are approximately 65-70 positions eligible to 
participate in this program. 
 
The Human Resources Department and Purchasing recommend authorizing the renewal 
contract with Banner Occupational Health Clinics, at $88,500, based on estimated 
usage. 
 
56 of 268

--- page 57 ---
Regular Council Meeting 
February 5, 2018 
Page 3 
 
 
*5-b. 
One-Year Renewal to the Term Contract for Deceased Animal Collection Services for 
the Community Services Department. (Citywide) 
 
This contract provides a vendor to collect and dispose of deceased animals up to 150 
pounds that are reported within the City. The contractor is responsible for the proper 
disposal by cremation or other means in accordance with the standards and methods 
approved by the Maricopa County Health Department. 
 
The Community Services Department and Purchasing recommend authorizing the 
renewal contract with APM/Couts Enterprises, Inc., dba Arizona Pet Mortuary, at 
$54,000, based on estimated usage. 
 
*5-c. 
Purchase of One Replacement Fire Apparatus, an Air Light/Rehab Unit, for the Fire and 
Medical Department (Sole Source). (Citywide) 
 
The apparatus being replaced has met established replacement criteria and will be sold 
by a sealed bid process or traded-in as part of the City's fire apparatus purchase 
agreement with Pierce Manufacturing. In addition, Fire and Medical will trade-in two units 
to further offset the price for the Air/Light Rehab unit.  
 
The Fire and Medical Department and Purchasing recommend authorizing the purchase 
using the City’s five-year purchase agreement with Pierce Manufacturing Inc., through 
their designated local dealer, Hughes Fire Equipment Inc., at $502,264.75. This 
purchase is funded by the Capital-General Fund and authorized 2013 Public Safety 
Bonds. 
 
*5-d. 
Three-Year Term Contract for Landscape Maintenance Services for Parks, Retention 
Basins and Sports Fields - Zones 1, 2, 3 and 4 for the Parks, Recreation and Community 
Facilities Department (PRCF). (Citywide) 
 
These contracts provide landscape maintenance services for sports fields, parkways, 
medians, parks, retention basins or grounds adjacent to City facilities. The City has 
divided the landscaping into geographic areas known as Zones 1, 2, 3 and 4. PRCF has 
done an analysis to bring the work under this contract in-house and, at this time, 
contracting continues to be in the best financial interest of the City. 
 
The evaluation committee recommends awarding the contract to the highest-scored 
proposal from Mariposa Landscape Arizona, Inc.; Zone 1, at $1,435,319.57 annually; 
Zone 2, at $959,183.45 annually; Zone 3, at $974,364.20 annually; and Zone 4, at 
$1,221,738.22 annually; based on estimated usage. 
 
*5-e. 
Three-Year Term Contract for Plumbing Services for the Parks, Recreation and 
Community Facilities Department. (Citywide) 
 
This contract will establish a list of pre-qualified plumbing contractors to perform 
plumbing services on various City facilities/projects on an as-needed basis.  
 
The evaluation committee recommends awarding the contract to the four, highest-scored 
proposals from Mesa Energy Systems Inc.; RKS Plumbing and Mechanical Inc.; Sun 
Mechanical Inc.; and W.D. Manor Mechanical Contractors, Inc.; cumulatively not to 
exceed $100,000 annually, based on estimated usage. 
 
57 of 268

--- page 58 ---
Regular Council Meeting 
February 5, 2018 
Page 4 
 
 
*5-f. 
Purchase of Furniture for the Main Library as requested by the Library Services 
Department. (Citywide) 
 
This purchase will provide seating and tables for two new rooms at the Main Library, 
Teen Room and ThinkSpot. The Library worked with several vendors utilizing 
cooperative contracts specifying their needs and goals with this project. 
 
The Library Services Department and Purchasing recommend authorizing the purchase 
using the Northern Arizona University cooperative contract with Atmosphere Commercial 
Interiors, at $50,876.25. 
 
*5-g. 
Five-Year Term Contract with CDW Government, LLC and SHI International Corp. for 
Information Technology Solutions and Services for Various Departments throughout the 
City. (Citywide) 
 
This contract will provide the City and participating agencies a full range of information 
technology solution products and services to meet varying requirements of governmental 
agencies. The scope of products and services available under these contracts include 
standard business and high-end workstations; laptop and notebook computers; network 
equipment; computer and network products and peripherals; monitors; various cloud, 
consulting, and technical support services; financing; various software products; and the 
contractors' comprehensive product offering. 
 
Mesa, as the lead agency, has partnered with the National Intergovernmental 
Purchasing Alliance Company (National IPA) to lead this contract. The contract will be 
available to over 45,000 public agencies nationally. While no minimum volume is 
guaranteed to the suppliers, the estimated annual volume of IT Solutions purchased 
under this master agreement is approximately $500 million per year. The City will 
receive rebates annually for administering and awarding this contract. 
 
A committee representing the Police, and Information Technology Departments, City 
Manager’s Office, Police-Information Technology, National IPA and Purchasing 
evaluated responses. The evaluation committee recommends awarding the contract to 
the highest-scored proposals from CDW Government, LLC and SHI International Corp., 
at $3,100,000 annually, based on estimated usage. 
 
*5-h. 
One-Year Term Contract for Electrical and Lighting Supplies for the Materials and 
Supply Warehouse (for Citywide Departments). (Citywide) 
 
Multiple departments use this Citywide contract for their miscellaneous electrical 
equipment and supplies. 
 
The Business Services Department and Purchasing recommend authorizing the 
purchase using the State of Arizona cooperative contract with Border States Industries, 
Inc., at $100,000, based on estimated usage. 
 
*5-i. 
Re-Award the Three-Year Term Contract for Microfilm Conversion Services for the 
Police Department. (Citywide) 
 
This contract will provide services to convert Police Department data from microfilm to 
digital media. Police, Records Division use microfilm that is becoming worn and 
damaged. The previous vendor is unable to satisfactorily fulfill the contract requirements. 
58 of 268

--- page 59 ---
Regular Council Meeting 
February 5, 2018 
Page 5 
 
 
The Police Department and Purchasing recommend re-awarding the contract to the 
second highest scored proposal, ICM Conversions, at $400,000 annually, based on 
estimated usage. 
 
*5-j. 
Purchase of Falcon District Brand Signage as requested by the Economic Development 
Department. (Citywide) 
 
Continuing to build awareness and to promote the Falcon Field Economic Activity Area, 
this purchase for the Falcon District signage includes the installation of two branded 
monument signs to be located on Greenfield and Higley Roads, south of the 202. 
Additionally, the City will install utility and transit signal box wraps and will mount 
branded banners promoting aerospace, technology, and manufacturing on light poles 
around the airport. 
 
The Economic Development Department and Purchasing recommend authorizing the 
purchase using the City of Peoria cooperative contract with YESCO Phoenix, at 
$146,670.49. This purchase is funded by Local Streets Sales Tax. 
 
*5-k. 
Purchase of Three Replacement Rollback Trailers for the Transportation Department. 
(Citywide) 
 
These trailers will replace three aging equipment trailers that are at the end of their 
service life. The trailers will meet the needs and safety requirements for transporting the 
large equipment required to perform street and right-of-way maintenance. 
 
The Transportation Department and Purchasing recommend authorizing the purchase 
using the National Joint Powers Alliance contract with Empire Southwest (a Mesa 
business), at $176,764.77.  This purchase is funded by Local Streets Sales Tax. 
 
*5-l. 
One-Year Renewal to the Term Contract for Radio-Based Endpoint Encoders (for Water 
Meter Reading) for the Water Resources Department. (Citywide) 
 
This contract provides Itron radio-based endpoint encoders and accessories purchased 
directly from Itron, Inc., the manufacturer. The endpoint stores 40 days of hourly reads to 
ensure data integrity and offers advanced customer side leak detection and reverse flow 
and tamper alarms. Water Utility installs approximately 540 radio-based endpoint 
encoders on new and existing meters annually. 
 
The Water Resources Department and Purchasing recommend authorizing the renewal 
with Itron, Inc., at $100,000, based on estimated usage. 
 
*5-m. 
Purchase of Water Treatment Plant Shop Tools and Equipment for the New Signal Butte 
Water Treatment Plant as requested by the Water Resources Department. (Citywide) 
 
This purchase is for tools and equipment needed for the start-up and maintenance in the 
various shops at the new Signal Butte Water Treatment Plant. 
 
The Water Resources Department and Purchasing recommend awarding the contract to 
the lowest, responsive and responsible bidders: Copper State Bolt & Nut Co. (a Mesa 
business); Glendale Industrial Supply, LLC, dba UNICOA Construction and Industrial 
Supply; Mallory Safety & Supply LLC; and W.W. Grainger, Inc.; cumulatively not to 
exceed $153,000, based on estimated usage. 
59 of 268

--- page 60 ---
Regular Council Meeting 
February 5, 2018 
Page 6 
 
 
*5-n. 
One-Year Renewal to the Term Contract for Fire Hydrant Water Meters for the Water 
Resources Department. (Citywide) 
 
This contract provides 3” fire hydrant water meters to accurately measure construction 
water use of fire hydrants. The meters are installed by Water Utility staff to serve 
contractors and other customers needing to connect to City fire hydrants for temporary 
construction water service and dust control purposes.  
 
The Water Resources Department and Purchasing recommend authorizing the renewal 
with Badger Meter Inc., dba National Meter Automation, at $35,000, based on estimated 
usage. 
 
*5-o. 
Greenfield Water Reclamation Plant (GWRP), Phase III Expansion Guaranteed 
Maximum Price (GMP) No. 2. (Citywide) 
 
The City of Mesa, Town of Gilbert, and Town of Queen Creek seek to provide an 
additional 14 million gallons per day annual average day flow of liquids and solids 
treatment capacity at the existing GWRP, complete with the required infrastructure, 
technology, and environmental features to ensure a reliable, efficient, and expanded 
plant to meet the current and future demands.  
 
Staff recommends awarding the contract for the completion of this project to McCarthy 
Building Companies in the amount of $120,302,333 and authorize a change order 
allowance $6,015,117 (5%) for a total project amount of $126,317,450. This project is 
funded by the Greenfield Water Reclamation Plant Joint Venture Fund, with 
contributions coming from its members based on usage. Mesa’s portion of this GMP is 
$72,229,521 and is funded by 2014 authorized Wastewater Bonds. 
 
*5-p. 
Sewer Pipe and Manhole Rehabilitation: Mesa Drive, Millet Avenue, Horne, and 6th 
Avenue. (District 4) 
 
The existing sanitary sewer lines covered by this project were built during the 1950’s and 
1960’s. The age of these pipes greatly increases their risk of failure and emergency 
repairs. This method of construction can be completed while leaving the pipe in place 
and without excavation. Similarly, the sewer manholes will be cleaned, repaired, and 
coated in place. Only the concrete adjustment rings will be removed and replaced. 
 
Staff recommends awarding the contract for this project to the lowest, responsible 
bidder, B and F Contracting, Inc, in the amount of $1,394,294.67, and authorize a 
change order allowance in the amount of $139,430 (10%), for a total amount of 
$1,533,724.67. Funding for this project is available from the 2014 Wastewater Bond 
Program. 
 
*5-q. 
Sidewalks at Railroad Crossing on Alma School. (Districts 3 and 4) 
 
To continue to meet current railroad approach and clearance standards at the Alma 
School Road railroad crossing, additional safety improvements will need to be made. 
The project improvements for roadway and sidewalk approach at this location will 
facilitate greater public safety and needed clearances from railroad signals along with a 
smoother roadway crossing of the Union Pacific Railroad track. Mesa will participate in 
the federally-funded Railway-Highway Grade Crossing Program, and will be responsible 
60 of 268

--- page 61 ---
Regular Council Meeting 
February 5, 2018 
Page 7 
 
 
for adjusting the existing concrete sidewalks around the proposed cantilevers and gates, 
and installing concrete medians. 
 
This project was previously awarded by Council on July 10, 2017, however, the 
previously selected contractor could not comply with the federal requirements and the 
project was released for bid a second time.  
 
Staff recommends awarding the contract to the lowest, responsible bidder, AJP Electric, 
in the amount of $149,494, plus an additional $14,949 (10%) as a change order 
allowance, for a total amount of $164,443. Funding is available from the Local Streets 
Sales Tax, of which 94.3% will be reimbursed by Arizona Department of Transportation 
(Federal) Grant under the Railway-Highway Grade Crossing. 
 
  
6. 
Take action on the following resolutions: 
 
 
*6-a. 
Approving and authorizing the City Manager to submit the Second Substantial 
Amendment to the Fiscal Year 2017/2018 Annual Action Plan to the U.S. Department of 
Housing and Urban Development related to the allocation of funding obtained under the 
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. This Amendment will allow for 
reallocation of $600,000 in CDBG funds from the Senior Center Renovation Project (247 
North Macdonald) to the Eagles Park Project (828 East Broadway Road). (District 4) – 
Resolution No. 11088. 
 
 
*6-b. 
Approving and authorizing the City Manager to enter into a Grant Agreement with the 
Arizona Department of Public Safety to accept $1,335,284 in Victims of Crime Act 
(VOCA) grant funds. The finding will be used for salaries and expenses for the Mesa 
Prosecutors Office, Victim Services Unit for a three-year period. (Citywide) – Resolution 
No. 11089. 
 
 
*6-c. 
Approving and authorizing the City Manager to enter into a Lease Agreement with New 
Cingular Wireless PCS for a cellular site on a portion of 5950 East Virginia Street, also 
known as Mesa Fire Station 214. (District 5) – Resolution No. 11090. 
 
 
*6-d. 
Approving and authorizing the City Manager to enter into a Development Agreement for 
City-Share Reimbursement with PPGN-Ray, LLLP, for the reimbursement of $100,568 
for regional street and street lighting improvements that are being required by the City in 
conjunction with a proposed residential development known as Crismon Road at PPGN, 
located at 5461 South Ellsworth Road. (District 6) – Resolution No. 11091. 
 
 
*6-e. 
Approving and authorizing the City Manager to enter into an Intergovernmental 
Agreement with the Maricopa County, Department of Transportation for the pavement 
rehabilitation of Adobe Road from Higley Road to Recker Road. The City will contribute 
an estimated $54,417 for the portion of the project that is within City boundaries that will 
be funded from the 2013 Streets Bond Program. (District 5) – Resolution No. 11092. 
 
 
*6-f. 
Approving and authorizing the City Manager to enter into First Amendments to the 
Development Agreement, Ground and Air Lease, and License Agreement with 3W 
Management, LLC, to facilitate the development of, and job creation and retention at, the 
City-owned property generally located at the southwest corner of Main Street and South 
Pomeroy and 34 South Pomeroy, which is the development commonly known as The 
GRID. (District 4) – Resolution No. 11093. 
 
61 of 268

--- page 62 ---
Regular Council Meeting 
February 5, 2018 
Page 8 
 
 
7. 
Introduction of the following ordinance and setting February 26, 2018 as the date of the public 
hearing on this ordinance: 
 
*7-a. 
ZON17-00323 (District 5) The 8800 to 8900 blocks of East Main Street (south side). 
Located west of Red Mountain Freeway on the south side of Main Street (16.4± acres). 
Rezoning from RS-43 and GC to GC-PAD; and Site Plan Review. This request will allow 
for the development of an RV dealership and storage facility. Jeff Welker, Welker 
Development Resources, applicant; Roger D. Overson, owner. 
 
Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions 
 
P&Z Board Recommendation: Approval with conditions (Vote: 6-0) 
 
8. 
Discuss, receive public comment, and take action on the following ordinances: 
 
*8-a. 
ZON17-00309 (District 2) The 5200 block of East Inverness Avenue (south side). 
Located east of Higley Road south of the US60 Freeway (1.9 ± acres).  Rezoning from 
RM-3-PAD to LC; and Site Plan Review. This request will allow for the development of a 
commercial building. John Schoenauer, HD Management, applicant; Sevilla, LLC, 
owner. – Ordinance No. 5419. 
 
Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions 
 
P&Z Board Recommendation: Approval with conditions (Vote: 7-0) 
 
*8-b. 
ZON17-00283 (District 6) The 7100 to 7300 blocks of East Ray Road (north side). 
Located east of Power Road on the north side of Ray Road (56.0± acres). Rezone from 
LI-AF to LI-AF-PAD. This request will allow for the development of an industrial 
subdivision. Omar Cervantes, XCL Engineering, LLC, applicant; Phx-Mesa Gateway 
Airport 193, LLC, owner. – Ordinance No. 5420. 
 
Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions 
 
P&Z Board Recommendation: Approval with conditions (Vote: 7-0) 
 
*8-c. ZON17-00432 (District 3) The 800 and 900 blocks of West Southern Avenue (south 
side), the 1200 and 1300 blocks of South Extension Road (west side), and the 800 and 
900 blocks of West Grove Avenue (north side). Located at the southwest corner of 
Southern Avenue and Extension Road (19.3 ± acres). PAD Amendment; Site Plan 
Modification. This request will allow the development of a new multiple-residence 
building in an existing multiple-residence complex.  Reese Anderson, Pew and Lake, 
PLC, applicant; Edward B. Frankel, Trustee of the Frankel Family Trust, owner. – 
Ordinance No. 5421. 
 
Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions 
 
 
        
P&Z Board Recommendation: Approval with conditions (Vote: 7-0) 
 
9. 
Take action on the following subdivision plat: 
 
*9-a. 
"Allred Ranch" (District 2) The 2900 to 3100 blocks of East Southern Avenue (north 
side), and the 900 to 1200 blocks of South Los Alamos (west side).  Located east of 
62 of 268

--- page 63 ---
Regular Council Meeting 
February 5, 2018 
Page9 
Lindsay Road on the north side of Southern Avenue. 108 RSL-4.5 PAD lots (25± acres). 
KB Home Phoenix, Inc., developer; Dan Auxier, EPS Group, engineer. 
Items not on the Consent Agenda 
10. 
Items from citizens present. 
There were no items from citizens present. 
11. 
Adjournment. 
Without objection, the Regular Council Meeting adjourned at 5:57 p.m. 
ATTEST: 
DEE ANN MICKELSEN, CITY CLERK 
~ 
~AYOR 
I hereby certify that the foregoing minutes are a true and correct copy of the minutes of the Regular 
Council 
Meeting 
of the 
City 
Council 
of 
Mesa, 
Arizona, 
held 
on 
the 
5th 
day 
of 
February, 2018. I further certify that the meeting was duly called and held and that a quorum was 
present. 
DEE ANN MICKELSEN, CITY CLERK 
js 
63 of 268

--- page 64 ---
Page 1 of 32 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT PURSUANT TO SOLICITATION 
 
CITY OF MESA AGREEMENT NUMBER 2018011 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS & SERVICES 
 
CITY OF MESA, Arizona (“City”) 
Department Name  
City of Mesa – Purchasing Division 
Mailing Address 
P.O. Box 1466 
 
Mesa, AZ  85211-1466 
Delivery Address 
20 East Main St, Suite 400 
 
Mesa, AZ  85201 
Attention 
Sharon Brause, CPPO, CPPB, CPCP 
Senior Procurement Officer 
E-Mail 
Sharon.Brause@MesaAZ.gov      
Phone 
(480) 644-2815 
Fax 
(480) 644-2655 
 
AND 
 
CDW GOVERNMENT LLC, (“Contractor”) 
Mailing Address 
230 N. Milwaukee Ave 
 
Vernon Hills, IL  60061-9740 
Remit Address 
75 Remittance Dr, Suite #1515 
 
Chicago, IL  60675-1515 
Attention 
Jumana Dihu, Program Manager 
E-Mail 
 jumdihu@cdwg.com  
Phone 
(312) 547-2495 
Fax 
(312) 705-9437 
Website 
www.cdwg.com  
 
 
 
64 of 268

--- page 65 ---
Page 2 of 32 
 
CITY OF MESA AGREEMENT PURSUANT TO SOLICITATION 
 
This Agreement pursuant to solicitation (“Agreement”) is entered into this 28th day of February, 2018, by 
and between the City of Mesa, Arizona, an Arizona municipal corporation (“City”), and CDW 
GOVERNMENT LLC, an Illinois limited liability company (“Contractor”). The City and Contractor are each 
a “Party” to the Agreement or together are “Parties” to the Agreement.   
 
RECITALS 
 
A. 
The City issued solicitation number 2018011 (“Solicitation”) for INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
SOLUTIONS & SERVICES, to which Contractor provided a response (“Response”); and 
 
B. 
The City Selected Contractor’s Response as being in the best interest of the City and wishes to 
engage Contractor in providing the services/materials described in the Solicitation and Response. 
 
In consideration of the reciprocal promises contained in the Agreement, and for other valuable and good 
consideration, which the Parties acknowledge the receipt and sufficiency of, the Parties agree to the 
following Terms & Conditions. 
  
TERMS & CONDITIONS 
 
1. 
Term. This Agreement is for a term beginning on March 1, 2018 and ending on February 28, 2023.  
The use of the word “Term” in the Agreement includes the aforementioned period as well as any 
applicable extensions or renewals in accordance with this Section 1.  
 
1.1 
Renewals. On the mutual written agreement of the Parties, the Term may be renewed up 
to a maximum of two (2), one (1) year periods.  Any renewal(s) will be a continuation of 
the same terms and conditions as in effect immediately prior to the expiration of the then-
current term.   
 
1.2 
Extension for Procurement Processes.  Upon the expiration of the Term of this 
Agreement, including any renewals permitted herein, at the City’s sole discretion this 
Agreement may be extended on a month-to-month basis for a maximum of six (6) months 
to allow for the City’s procurement processes in the selection of a Contractor to provide the 
services/materials provided under this Agreement.  The City will notify the Contractor in 
writing of its intent to extend the Agreement at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the 
expiration of the Term.  Any extension under this Subsection 1.2 will be a continuation of 
the same terms and conditions as in effect immediately prior to the expiration of the then-
current term. 
 
1.3 
Delivery. Delivery shall be made to the location(s) contained in the Scope of Work within 
thirty (30) days after receipt of an order.  Title to Products and risk of loss or damage during 
shipment pass from Contractor to City upon delivery to the destination specified on the 
applicable purchase order (F.O.B. Destination, freight prepaid and allowed).  Contractor 
agrees to deliver all products to be delivered F.O.B. destination, freight pre-paid and 
allowed to various locations throughout the City.  In many cases within the City, the 
Contractor may be asked to deliver all products to the front counter within a given 
department. For special orders, the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith an alternative 
delivery date when necessary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, title to software will remain 
with the applicable licensor(s), and the City's rights therein are contained in the license 
agreement between such licensor(s) and the City. 
 
2. 
Scope of Work.   The Contractor will provide the necessary staff, services and associated 
resources to provide the City with the services, materials, and obligations attached to this 
Agreement as Exhibit A (“Scope of Work”) Contractor will be responsible for all costs and expenses 
incurred by Contractor that are incident to the performance of the Scope of Work unless otherwise 
65 of 268

--- page 66 ---
Page 3 of 32 
 
stated in Exhibit A.  Contractor will supply all equipment and instrumentalities necessary to perform 
the Scope of Work.  If set forth in Exhibit A, the City will provide Contractor’s personnel with 
adequate workspace and such other related facilities as may be required by Contractor to carry out 
the Scope of Work.   
 
The Agreement is based on the Solicitation and Response which are hereby incorporated by 
reference into the Agreement as if written out and included herein.  In addition to the requirements 
specifically set forth in the Scope of Work, the Parties acknowledge and agree that the Parties shall 
perform in accordance with all terms, conditions, specifications and other requirements set forth 
within the Solicitation and Response unless modified herein.  
 
3. 
Orders.  Orders must be placed with the Contractor by either a: (i) Purchase Order when for a one-
time purchase; (ii) procurement card; (iii) Delivery Order or Blanket Purchase Order for a 
requirements contract where multiple as-needed orders will be placed with the Contractor; (iv) 
Executed Statement of Work (SOW); or (v) Executed Cloud Service Order (CSO) Form. The City 
may use the Internet to communicate with Contractor and to place orders as permitted under this 
Agreement.  Unless explicitly stated in a separate writing executed by the Parties, the terms and 
conditions on any order form, quote, or similar document provided by Contractor to the City will not 
take precedence over the language set forth in this Agreement or any of the documents outlined in 
Section 4 below.       
 
4. 
Document Order of Precedence.  In the event of any inconsistency between the terms of the 
body of the Agreement, Exhibits, Solicitation, and Response, the language of the documents will 
control in the following order. 
 
a. 
Amendments to the Agreement 
b. 
Agreement  
c. 
Exhibits 
1. 
Mesa Standard Terms & Conditions (Exhibit C) 
2. 
Pricing (Exhibit B)  
3. 
Scope of Work (Exhibit A) 
4. 
Other Exhibits not listed above 
d. 
Solicitation including any addenda 
e. 
Contractor’s Response  
 
5. 
Payment.  Subject to the provisions of the Agreement, the City will pay Contractor the sum(s) 
described in Exhibit B (“Pricing”) in consideration of Contractor’s performance of the Scope of 
Work during the Term. 
 
6. 
Pricing.  Contractor’s pricing shall be in the format of a minimum percentage discount off a 
verifiable price index.  Contractor may submit discounts for various manufacturers.  At the time of 
purchase, Contractor may offer deeper discounts beyond the discounted price list, based on 
volume or other factors, as applicable. Minimum discounts will remain firm during the entirety of the 
Term of the Agreement, unless the Contractor requests to increase its discount percentage, and 
Pricing will include all charges that may be incurred in fulfilling requirement(s).  In addition to 
decreasing prices for the balance of the Term due to a change in market conditions, a Contractor 
may conduct sales promotions involving price reductions for a specified lesser period.  In the event 
a product is discontinued, Contractor will provide a product of the same or greater functionality, 
utilizing the discount structure.   
 
It is the Contractor’s responsibility to provide the City with an up-to-date price list for the duration 
of the Agreement. 
 
6.1 
Prices.  All pricing discounts shall be firm for the Term and all extensions or renewals of 
the Term except where otherwise provided in this Agreement, and will include all costs of 
the Contractor providing the materials/service including transportation, insurance and 
66 of 268

--- page 67 ---
Page 4 of 32 
 
warranty costs.  No fuel surcharges will be accepted unless allowed in this Agreement.  
The City shall not be invoiced at prices higher than those stated in the Agreement.  
 
 
 
No price modifications will be accepted without proper request by the Contractor and 
response by the City’s Purchasing Division. 
 
6.2 
Price Adjustment.  Any requests for reasonable price adjustments must be submitted in 
accordance with this Section.  Requests for adjustment in cost of labor and/or materials 
must be supported by appropriate documentation.  There is no guarantee the City will 
accept a price adjustment; therefore, Contractor should be prepared for the Pricing to be 
firm over the Term of the Agreement.  The City is only willing to entertain price adjustments 
based on an increase to Contractor’s actual expenses or other reasonable adjustment in 
providing the services/materials under the Agreement. If the City agrees to the adjusted 
price terms, the City shall issue written approval of the change.  
 
During the sixty (60) day period prior to the expiration of the then-current term date of the 
Agreement, the Contractor may submit a written request to the City to allow an increase to 
the prices in an amount not to exceed the twelve (12) month change in the Consumer 
Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U), US City Average, All Items, Not 
Seasonally Adjusted as published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor 
Statistics (http://www.bls.gov/cpi/home.htm). The City shall review the request for 
adjustment and respond in writing; such response and approval shall not be unreasonably 
withheld. 
 
6.3 
Renewal and Extension Pricing.  Any extension of the Agreement will be at the same 
pricing as the initial term.  If the Agreement is renewed in accordance with Section 1, pricing 
may be adjusted for amounts other than inflation that represent actual costs to the 
Contractor based on the mutual agreement of the Parties.  Contractor may submit a 
request for a price adjustment along with appropriate supporting documentation 
demonstrating the cost to the Contractor.  Renewal prices shall be firm for the term of the 
renewal period and may be adjusted thereafter as outlined in the Subsection 6.2. There is 
no guarantee the City will accept a price adjustment. 
 
6.4 
Invoices.  Payment will be made to Contractor following the City’s receipt of a properly 
completed invoice.  Any issues regarding billing or invoicing must be directed to the City 
Department/Division requesting the service or material from the Contractor.   A properly 
completed invoice should contain, at a minimum, all of the following: 
 
a. 
Contractor name, address, and contact information; 
b. 
City billing information;  
c. 
City contract number as listed on the first page of the Agreement; 
d. 
Invoice number and date;  
e. 
Payment terms; 
f. 
Date of service or delivery; 
g. 
Description of materials or services provided; 
h. 
If materials provided, the quantity delivered and pricing of each unit; 
i. 
Applicable taxes; and 
j. 
Total amount due. 
 
6.5 
Payment of Funds.  Contractor acknowledges the City may, at its option and where 
available use a Procurement Card/e-Payables to make payment for orders under the 
Agreement; otherwise, payment will be through a traditional method of a check or 
Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) as available. 
 
67 of 268

--- page 68 ---
Page 5 of 32 
 
6.6 
Disallowed Costs, Overpayment.  If at any time the City determines that a cost for which 
payment was made to Contractor is a disallowed cost, such as an overpayment or a charge 
for materials/service not in accordance with the Agreement, the City will notify Contractor 
in writing of the disallowance; such notice will state the means of correction which may be, 
but is not limited to, adjustment of any future claim/invoice submitted by Contractor in the 
amount of the disallowance or to require repayment of the disallowed amount by 
Contractor.  Contractor will be provided with the opportunity to respond to the notice. 
 
7. 
Insurance. 
 
7.1 
Contractor must obtain and maintain at its expense throughout the Term of the Agreement, 
at a minimum, the types and amounts of insurance set forth in this Section 7 from insurance 
companies authorized to do business in the State of Arizona; the insurance must cover the 
materials/service to be provided by Contractor under the Agreement.  For any insurance 
required under the Agreement, Contractor will name the City of Mesa, its agents, 
representatives, officials, volunteers, officers, elected officials, and employees as 
additional insured, as evidenced by providing either an additional insured endorsement or 
proper insurance policy excerpts.  
 
7.2 
Nothing in this Section 7 limits Contractor’s responsibility to the City.  The insurance 
requirements herein are minimum requirements for the Agreement and in no way limit any 
indemnity promise(s) contained in the Agreement. 
 
7.3 
The City does not warrant the minimum limits contained herein are sufficient to protect 
Contractor and subcontractor(s) from liabilities that might arise out of performance under 
the Agreement by Contractor, its agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractor(s).  
Contractor is encouraged to purchase additional insurance as Contractor determines may 
be necessary. 
 
7.4 
Each insurance policy required under the Agreement must be in effect at or prior to the 
execution of the Agreement and remain in effect for the Term of the Agreement.   
 
7.5 
Prior to the execution of the Agreement, Contractor will provide the City with a Certificate 
of Insurance (using an appropriate “ACORD” or equivalent certificate) signed by the issuer 
with applicable endorsements.  The City reserves the right to request additional copies of 
any or all of the policies, endorsements, or notices relating thereto required under the 
Agreement. 
 
7.6 
When the City requires a Certificate of Insurance to be furnished, Contractor's insurance 
is primary of all other sources available.  When the City is a certificate holder and/or an 
additional insured, Contractor agrees no policy will expire, be canceled, or be materially 
changed to affect the coverage available without advance written notice to the City. 
 
7.7 
The policies required by the Agreement must contain a waiver of transfer rights of recovery 
(waiver of subrogation) against the City, its agents, representatives, officials, volunteers, 
officers, elected officials, and employees for any claims arising out of the work of 
Contractor. 
 
7.8 
All insurance certificates and applicable endorsements are subject to review and approval 
by the City's Risk Management Division. 
 
7.9 
Types and Amounts of Insurance.  Contractor must obtain and retain throughout the 
term of the Agreement, at a minimum, the following: 
 
7.9.1 
Worker’s compensation insurance in accordance with the provisions of Arizona   
law.  If Contractor operates with no employees, Contractor must provide the City 
68 of 268

--- page 69 ---
Page 6 of 32 
 
with written proof Contractor has no employees.  If employees are hired during the 
course of this Agreement, Contractor must procure worker’s compensations in 
accordance with Arizona law.  
 
7.9.2 
The Contractor shall maintain at all times during the term of this contract, a 
minimum amount of $1 million per occurrence/$2 million aggregate Commercial 
General Liability insurance, including Contractual Liability.  For Commercial 
General Liability insurance, the City of Mesa, their agents, officials, volunteers, 
officers, elected officials or employees shall be named as additional insured, as 
evidenced by providing an additional insured endorsement.  
 
7.9.3 
Automobile liability, bodily injury and property damage with a limit of $1 million per 
occurrence including owned, hired and non-owned autos. 
 
8. 
Requirements Contract.  Contractor acknowledges and agrees the Agreement is a requirements 
contract; the Agreement does not guarantee any purchases will be made (minimum or maximum).  
Orders will only be placed when the City identifies a need and issues a purchase order or a written 
notice to proceed.  The City reserves the right to cancel purchase orders or a notice to proceed 
within three (3) business days of issuance; any such cancellation will be in writing.  Should a 
purchase order or notice to proceed be canceled, the City agrees to reimburse Contractor for any 
actual and documented costs incurred by Contractor.  The City will not reimburse Contractor for 
any avoidable costs incurred after receipt of cancellation including, but not limited to, lost profits, 
shipment of materials, or performance of services.  The City reserves the right to purchase 
contracted items through other sources if determined in the best interests of the City to do so. 
 
9. 
Notices. All notices to be given pursuant to the Agreement will be delivered to the Contractor at 
the address listed on Page 1 of this Agreement.  Notice will be delivered pursuant to the 
requirements set forth the Mesa Standard Terms and Conditions that are attached to the 
Agreement as Exhibit C.   
 
10. 
Representations of Contractor. To the best of Contractor’s knowledge, Contractor agrees that:  
 
a. 
Contractor has no obligations, legal or otherwise, inconsistent with the terms of the 
Agreement or with Contractor’s undertaking of the relationship with the City;  
 
b. 
Performance of the services called for by the Agreement do not and will not violate any 
applicable law, rule, regulation, or any proprietary or other right of any third party;  
 
c. 
Contractor will not use in the performance of Contractor’s responsibilities under the 
Agreement any proprietary information or trade secret of a former employer of its 
employees (other than City, if applicable); and  
 
d. 
Contractor has not entered into and will not enter into any agreement, whether oral or 
written, in conflict with the Agreement.  
 
11. 
Mesa Standard Terms and Conditions.  Exhibit C to the Agreement is the Mesa Standard Terms 
and Conditions as modified by the Parties, which are incorporated by reference into the Agreement 
as though fully set forth herein.  In the event of any inconsistency between the terms of the 
Agreement and the Mesa Standard Terms and Conditions, the language of the Agreement will 
control. The Parties or a Party are referred to as a “party” or “parties” in the Mesa Standard Terms 
and Conditions.  The Term is referred to as the “term” in the Mesa Standard Terms and Conditions. 
 
12. 
Counterparts and Facsimile or Electronic Signatures.  This Agreement may be executed in two 
(2) or more counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original and all of which, taken together, 
will constitute one agreement.  A facsimile or other electronically delivered signature to the 
69 of 268

--- page 70 ---
13.

14.

15.

16.

Agreement will be deemed an original and binding upon the Party against whom enforcement is
sought.

Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits. All Recitals and Exhibits to the Agreement are hereby
incorporated by reference into the Agreement as if written out and included herein. In the event of
any inconsistency between the terms of the body of the Agreement and the Exhibits, the language
of the Agreement will control.

Exhibits to this Agreement are the following:
(A) Scope of Work / Technical Specifications
(B) Pricing
(C) Mesa Standard Terms and Conditions

Attorneys’ Fees. The prevailing Party in any litigation arising out of the Agreement will be entitled
to the recovery of its reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, and other litigation related costs and
fees from the other Party.

Additional Acts. The Parties agree to execute promptly such other documents and to perform
such other acts as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of the
Agreement.

Headings. The headings of the Agreement are for reference only and will not limit or define the
meaning of any provision of the Agreement.

By executing below, each Party acknowledges that it understands, approves, and accepts all of the terms
of the Agreement and the attached exhibits.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.

CITY OF MESA, ARIZONA CDW GOVERNMENT LLC

Digitally signed by
Edward Quedens . ;
By: _ / A 4 Location: City of Mesa By: We te CoS

‘Business Services
Date: 2018.03.02

13:18:03 -07'00' Christina V. Rother
Printed Name Printed Name
President
Title Title
March 1, 2018
Date Date

Page 7 of 32

70 of 268


--- page 71 ---
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF WORK 
 
 
Page 8 of 32 
 
 
 
1. 
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.   Contractor must meet the following minimum qualifications: 
a. 
A full range of information technology solution products and services to meet varying 
requirements of governmental agencies.   
b. 
Have a strong national presence as a computer solutions provider. 
c. 
Have a distribution model capable of delivering products, free of charge, in a timely manner 
on a nationwide basis. 
d. 
Have a demonstrated sales presence. 
e. 
Ability to provide a toll-free telephone and state of the art electronic facsimile and internet 
ordering and billing capabilities. 
f. 
Be able to meet the minimum requirements of the cooperative purchasing program detailed 
herein. 
 
2. 
ORDERING.  Although the City is open to alternate ordering methods, the primary methods for 
customers placing orders with the Contractor is through the following: 
 
a. 
Online 
b. 
Telephone 
c. 
Fax 
d. 
Email 
 
3. 
SCOPE OF PRODUCTS.  Contractor will provide the ability to purchase a comprehensive, wide 
variety of Information Technology Solution Products including, but not limited to, the following 
categories:  
 
a. 
Personal Computer Systems:  National brand name desktop PCs, notebooks and laptops 
from Enterprise Tier and Middle Tier Contractors that are business related computers, 
manufactured by companies, such as, Apple, COMPAQ, Dell, Gateway, Hewlett Packard, 
IBM / Lenovo and Toshiba. 
 
b. 
Standard Business Workstation:  These will be used for typical tasks, which will include 
word processing, spreadsheet analysis, database management, business graphics, 
statistical analysis, internet, and other office automation activities.  Product will include the 
operating system license, software media and documentation in the hardware shipment. 
 
c. 
High End Workstation:  These will be used by application developers using GIS, CASE or 
other high-level language development tools, Computer Aided Design and Drafting 
professional, Internet Application developers or other sophisticated application work.  
Product will include the operating system license, software media and documentation in 
the hardware shipment. 
 
d. 
Laptop Computer or Notebook:  These will be used by traveling or remote access users for 
typical office automation and business productivity use.  With a port replicator or docking 
station, it may also be used as a standard desktop.  Product will include the operating 
system license, software media and documentation in the hardware shipment. 
 
e. 
Network Equipment:   This includes equipment primarily used for communications over an 
IP network.   This includes layer 2 and layer 3 switches, routers, area wireless access 
points, point-to-point wireless access, optics, media interfaces (i.e. serial, T1, T3, OC3) 
and fiber channel.   Class of equipment should include home office, small and medium 
business, and enterprise.  Contractors may include, but not limited to, Cisco Systems, Dell, 
Juniper Networks, HP, Extreme Networks, Enterasys Networks, D-Link, Netgear, and 
Brocade Communications Systems.   
 
71 of 268

--- page 72 ---
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF WORK 
 
 
Page 9 of 32 
 
f. 
Monitors:  These will include plug and play compatible monitors that are manufactured for 
the above systems and/or any other brand that may be specifically called for by the ordering 
entity and which meet the most current UL and OSHA requirements. 
 
g. 
Computer and Network Products and Peripherals:  Complete availability of major 
manufacturers Product lines on items such as, but not limited to RAM, graphic accelerator 
cards, network interface cards, cables, printers, scanners, keyboards, drives, memory 
cards, cables, batteries, etc. 
 
h. 
Services:   
 
i. Services means such as, consulting, technical support, trade-ins, repair, design, 
analysis, configuration, implementation, installation, training, and maintenance, 
etc.  In addition, services which are related to the design, use or operation of the 
Products 
being 
purchased 
such 
as 
system 
configurations, 
testing, 
hardware/software installation, upgrades, imaging, etc. as described generally in 
this Agreement and as more particularly described in a Statement of Work or SOW 
(meaning a document in electronic or written form that is signed and delivered by 
each of the Parties for the performance of Services. 
ii. Cloud Computing means third party cloud computing and storage services, where 
Contractor acts as a rebiller only and has no control over the delivery of the cloud 
computing and storage services. City acknowledges that the cloud service 
provider, and not Contractor, will be responsible for performance of the Cloud 
Services. Also, before Contractor can sell cloud computing and/or storage services 
from a third party to the City, City must execute an agreement governing said cloud 
computing and/or storage services with the third-party cloud services provider. 
 
i. 
Comprehensive Product Offering: Contractor’s catalog and Services set forth in Exhibit B 
shall be available.  The City reserves the right to accept or reject any or all items offered. 
 
j. 
Financing: Options available such as lease programs and conditional sales contracts.   
 
4. 
LICENSES. The City may be required to sign a separate agreement, rider or End User Licensing 
Agreement (“EULA”), or such other terms as required by manufacturers, software publisher, or 
cloud service provider. 
 
5. 
DEFECTIVE PRODUCT. All defective Products shall be replaced and exchanged by the 
Contractor. The cost of transportation, re-shipping or other like expenses shall be paid by the 
Contractor and in the case of certain, special orders, other reasonable charges may be paid by the 
Contractor as defined in the order or as otherwise agreed to by the Parties. All replacement 
Products must be received by the City within seven (7) days of initial notification, when such 
products are in Contractor stock; if replacement Product is not in Contractor’s stock, Contractor will 
use commercially reasonable efforts to order the product within one (1) business day of the initial 
notification from the City and will ensure product is received within seven (7) days after Contractor’s 
receipt of the product. 
72 of 268

--- page 73 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 10 of 32 
 
 
 
 
Item 
# 
Product 
Product / Group 
Discount 
Manufacturer Name 
1) 
Group 1 - Systems 
1)  Desktops 
2.10% All 
2)  Notebooks 
2.10% All 
3)  Tablets  
2.25% All 
4)  Servers                                                      
(1 Processor, 2 Processor, 4+ 
Processor, Blade, Tower, Unix, 
Handhelds, etc.) 
4.00% All 
2) 
Group 2 - Input Devices 
5)  Keyboards 
6.75% All 
6)  Mice 
6.75% All 
7)  Imaging Scanners 
3.00% All 
8)  POS Scanners 
3.00% All 
9)  Pointing Devices 
3.50% All 
10)  Bar Code Readers 
4.25% All 
11)  Audio Input 
15.00% All 
12)  Input Adapters 
5.00% All 
13)  PC and Network Cameras 
5.50% All 
14)  Input Cables 
15.00% All 
15)  Input Accessories 
6.75% All 
3) 
Group 3 - Output Devices 
16)  Displays 
3.50% All 
17)  Printers 
3.00% All 
18)  Inkjet Printers 
3.00% All 
19)  Inkjet Photo Printers 
3.00% All 
20)  Laser Printers 
3.00% All 
21)  Label Printers 
4.25% All 
22)  Dot Matrix Printers 
3.00% All 
23)  Multi-Function Printers 
3.00% All 
24)  Wide Format Printers 
3.00% All 
25)  Multi-Function Inkjet Printers 
3.00% All 
26)  Wide Format Printers 
3.00% All 
27)  Fax Machine Printers 
3.00% All 
28)  Printer Accessories 
3.00% All 
29)  Projectors 
3.50% All 
30)  Projector Accessories 
3.50% All 
31)  Audio Input 
15.00% All 
32)  Video Cards 
3.50% All 
73 of 268

--- page 74 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 11 of 32 
 
33)  Sound Cards 
3.50% All 
34)  Output Accessories 
6.75% All 
35)  Printer Consumables 
3.00% All 
4) 
Group 4 - Memory 
36)  Desktop 
13.00% All 
37)  Flash 
5.50% All 
38)  Networking 
13.00% All 
39)  Notebook 
13.00% All 
40)  Printer / Fax 
13.00% All 
41)  Server 
13.00% All 
5) 
Group 5 - Storage Devices 
42)  Adapters Fiber Channel 
5.50% All 
43)  Adapters FireWire / USB 
5.50% All 
44)  Adapters IDE/ATA/SATA 
5.50% All 
45)  Adapters RAID 
5.50% All 
46)  Adapters SCSI 
5.50% All 
47)  Bridges & Routers 
5.50% All 
48)  Disk Arrays 
5.50% All 
49)  Disk Arrays JBOD 
5.50% All 
50)  Drives Magneto-Optical 
5.50% All 
51)  Drives Removable Disks 
5.50% All 
52)  Fiber Channel Switches 
5.50% All 
53)  Hard Disks - External 
5.50% All 
54)  Hard Disks - Fiber Channel 
5.50% All 
55)  Hard Disks - IDE/ATA/S 
5.50% All 
56)  Hard Disks - Notebook 
5.50% All 
57)  Hard Disks - SCSI 
5.50% All 
58)  Networking Accessories 
5.50% All 
59)  Optical Drives - CD-ROM 
5.50% All 
60)  Optical Drives - CD-RW 
5.50% All 
61)  Optical Drives - DVD-CD 
5.50% All 
62)  Optical Drives - DVD-RW 
5.50% All 
63)  Storage Accessories 
5.00% All 
64)  Storage - NAS 
5.00% All 
65)  Storage - SAN 
5.00% All 
66)  Tape Autoloaders -AIT 
5.00% All 
67)  Tape Autoloaders - DAT 
5.00% All 
68)  Tape Autoloaders - DLT 
5.00% All 
69)  Tape Autoloaders - LTO 
5.00% All 
70)  Tape Drives - 4mm 
5.00% All 
74 of 268

--- page 75 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 12 of 32 
 
71)  Tape Drives - 8mm/VXA 
5.00% All 
72)  Tape Drives - AIT 
5.00% All 
73)  Tape Drives - DAT 
5.00% All 
74)  Tape Drives - DLT 
5.00% All 
75)  Tape Drives - LTO/Ultrium 
5.00% All 
76)  Tape Drives SDLT 
5.00% All 
77)  Tape Drives - Travan 
5.00% All 
6) 
Group 6 - Network 
Equipment 
78)  10/100 Hubs & Switches 
5.50% All 
79)  Bridges & Routers 
5.50% All 
80)  Gigabit Hubs & Switches 
5.50% All 
81)  Concentrators & Multiplexers 
5.50% All 
82)  Hardware Firewalls 
5.50% All 
83)  Intrusion Detection 
5.50% All 
84)  KVM 
4.00% All 
85)  Modems 
5.50% All 
86)  Network Test Equipment 
5.50% All 
87)  Network Adapters 
5.50% All 
88)  Network Cables 
15.00% All 
89)  Network Accessories 
5.50% All 
90)  Repeaters & Transceivers 
5.50% All 
91)  Wireless LAN Accessories 
5.50% All 
92)  Token Authentication 
5.50% All 
93)  10G Fiber Optic Transceivers 
5.50% All 
94)  1G Fiber Optic Transceivers 
5.50% All 
7) 
Group 7 - Software 
95)  Licensing Packages                               
(e.g. Microsoft) 
4.00% All 
96)  Licensing Backup 
4.00% All 
97)  Licensing Barcode/OC 
4.00% All 
98)  Licensing Business Application 
4.00% All 
99)  Licensing CAD/CAM 
4.00% All 
100)  Licensing -  Cloning 
4.00% All 
101)  Licensing - Computer Services 
4.00% All 
102)  Licensee - Database 
4.00% All 
103)  Licensing - Development 
4.00% All 
104)  Licensing - Entertainment 
4.00% All 
105)  Licensing - Financial 
4.00% All 
106)  Licensing - Flow Chart 
4.00% All 
107)  Licensing - Graphic Design 
4.00% All 
108)  Licensing - Handheld 
4.00% All 
75 of 268

--- page 76 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 13 of 32 
 
109)  Licensing - Network OS 
4.00% All 
110)  Licensing - OS 
4.00% All 
111)  Licensing - Personal Organization 
4.00% All 
112)  Licensing - Presentation 
4.00% All 
113)  Licensing - Reference 
4.00% All 
114)  Licensing - Report Analysis 
4.00% All 
115)  Licensing - Spreadsheet 
4.00% All 
116)  Licensing - Utilities 
4.00% All 
117)  Licensing - Warranties 
4.00% All 
118)  Licensing - Web Development 
4.00% All 
119)  Licensing - Word Processing 
4.00% All 
120)  Software - Backup 
4.00% All 
121)  Software - Barcode / OCR 
4.00% All 
122)  Software - Business Application 
4.00% All 
123)  Software - CAD/CAM 
4.00% All 
124)  Software - Cloning 
4.00% All 
125)  Software - Computer Services 
4.00% All 
126)  Software - Database 
4.00% All 
127)  Software - Development 
4.00% All 
128)  Software - Entertainment 
4.00% All 
129)  Software - Financial 
4.00% All 
130)  Software - Flow Chart 
4.00% All 
131)  Software - Graphic Design 
4.00% All 
132)  Software - Handheld 
4.00% All 
133) Software - OS 
4.00% All 
134)  Software - Personal Organization 
4.00% All 
135)  Software - Presentation 
4.00% All 
136)  Software - Reference 
4.00% All 
137)  Software - Report Analysis 
4.00% All 
138)  Software - Spreadsheet 
4.00% All 
139)  Software - Utilities 
4.00% All 
140)  Software - Warranties 
4.00% All 
141)  Software - Web Development 
4.00% All 
142)  Software - Word Processing 
4.00% All 
8) 
Group 8 - Media Supplies 
143)  Media - 4mm tape 
5.50% All 
144)  Media - AIT tape 
5.50% All 
145)  Media - DAT tape 
5.50% All 
146)  Media - DLT tape 
5.50% All 
76 of 268

--- page 77 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 14 of 32 
 
147)  Media LTO / Ultrium tape drive 
5.50% All 
148)  Media - Magneto - Optical 
5.50% All 
149)  Media - Optical 
5.50% All 
150)  Media - SLR tape 
5.50% All 
151)  Media - Travan tape 
5.50% All 
152)  Media - VXA tape 
5.50% All 
153)  Media - zip 
5.50% All 
9) 
Group 9 - Collaboration & 
IP Telephony 
154)  IP phones 
4.25% All 
155)  Video conferencing products 
4.25% All 
156)  Voice gateways / servers 
4.25% All 
157)  Headsets 
4.25% All 
158)  Audio conferencing products 
4.25% All 
159)  Analog phones 
4.25% All 
160)  Accessories 
4.25% All 
10) 
Group 10 - Other 
161)  Advanced Integration 
3.00% All 
162)  Asset Disposal 
3.00% All 
163)  Asset Management 
3.00% All 
164)  Cables 
15.00% All 
165)  Cables - custom 
15.00% All 
166)  Cables - printer 
15.00% All 
167)  Complex warranties 
3.00% All 
168)  Desktop Accessories 
6.75% All 
169)  Display Accessories 
3.50% All 
170)  Electronic Services 
3.00% All 
171)  Handheld Accessories 
6.75% All 
172)  Imaging Accessories 
6.75% All 
173)  Imaging - Camcorders 
3.50% All 
174)  Imaging - Digital Cameras 
3.50% All 
175)  Internal Lab Service 
3.00% All 
176)  Lab fees 
3.00% All 
177)  Managed Services 
3.00% All 
178)  Miscellaneous solutions 
3.00% All 
179)  Mounting hardware for vehicles 
2.50% All 
180)  Networking Warranties 
3.50% All 
181)  Notebook Accessories 
2.50% All 
182)  Notebook Batteries 
5.00% All 
183)  PC Lab order services 
3.00% All 
184)  POS Accessories 
4.25% All 
77 of 268

--- page 78 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 15 of 32 
 
185)  POS Displays 
4.25% All 
186)  Power Accessories 
5.00% All 
187)  Power Surge Protection 
5.00% All 
188)  Power UPS 
5.00% All 
189)  Server Accessories 
4.00% All 
190)  Service Charge 
2.00% All 
191)  System Components 
13.00% All 
192)  Training Courses 
3.00% All 
193)  Training Reference Manuals 
3.00% All 
194)  Warranties - Electronic 
3.00% All 
195)  iPAD / Tablet Stylus 
6.75% All 
196)  Mouse / Wrist Pads 
6.75% All 
197)  Security Locks and Hardware 
6.75% All 
198)  Tools 
6.75% All 
199)  Document Scanner Accessories 
3.00% All 
200)  Flatbed Scanners 
3.00% All 
201)  Mobile Scanners 
3.00% All 
202)  Network Scanners 
3.00% All 
203)  Sheet fed Scanners 
3.00% All 
204)  Wide Format Scanners 
3.00% All 
205)  Workgroup / Department 
Scanner 
3.00% All 
206)  Build to Order Desktops 
2.10% All 
207)  Nettop 
3.00% All 
208)  Point of Sale 
4.25% All 
209)  Ultra Small Form Factor 
2.10% All 
210)  Apple / Mac Memory Upgrades 
13.00% All 
211)  Chips / SIMMs/SIPPs / ROMs 
13.00% All 
212)  Computer Cases 
13.00% All 
213)  CPUs / Fans 
13.00% All 
214)  Memory Accessories 
13.00% All 
215)  Motherboards / Chassis 
13.00% All 
216)  1 - 2 port Serial Boards 
13.00% All 
217)  3+ port Serial Boards 
13.00% All 
218)  Console Server 
4.00% All 
219)  Device Server 
4.00% All 
220)  Terminal Server 
4.00% All 
221)  Content Management 
4.00% All 
222)  Firewall / VPN Appliances 
5.50% All 
78 of 268

--- page 79 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 16 of 32 
 
223)  Multifunction Security    
Appliances 
5.50% All 
224)  Network Camera Accessories 
5.50% All 
225)  Network Cameras 
5.50% All 
226)  Physical/Environmental Security 
5.50% All 
227)  Security Appliance Accessories 
5.50% All 
228)  Security Tokens 
5.50% All 
229)  Unified Threat Management 
5.50% All 
230)  2-way Radios / Walkie Talkies 
6.75% All 
231)  Apple Notebooks 
2.50% All 
232)  Convertible PCs / Slate PCs / 
iPAD 
2.25% All 
233) iPAD 
2.25% All 
234)  Slate Tablet Computers 
2.25% All 
235)  GPS / PDA 
6.75% All 
236)  Wireless Communication Devices 
2.50% All 
237)  Batteries 
5.00% All 
238)  Power Supplies / Adapters 
5.00% All 
239)  Rackmountain Equipment 
5.00% All 
240)  Remote Power Management 
5.00% All 
241)  Surge Suppressors 
5.00% All 
242)  UPS / Battery Backup 
5.00% All 
243)  14" & smaller LCD Display 
3.50% All 
244)  15-19" LCD Display 
3.50% All 
245)  15-19" Wide LCD Display 
3.50% All 
246)  15-19" Wide LED Display 
3.50% All 
247)  20-30" LCD Display 
3.50% All 
248)  20-30" Wide LCD Display 
3.50% All 
249)  20-30" Wide LED Display 
3.50% All 
250)  PCoIP and Zero Client Displays 
3.50% All 
251)  Arm Mounts 
3.50% All 
252)  Ceiling Mounts 
3.50% All 
253)  Combo Mounts 
3.50% All 
254)  Desktop Stands / Risers 
3.50% All 
255)  Flat Wall Mounts 
3.50% All 
256)  Mount Accessories 
3.50% All 
257)  Pole Display 
4.25% All 
258)  Stands / Carts / Feet 
3.50% All 
259)  Tilt Wall Mounts 
3.50% All 
79 of 268

--- page 80 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 17 of 32 
 
260)  C-Cure Products 
4.00% All 
261)  Istar Products 
5.50% All 
11) 
Group 11 - Services 
SERVICE 
STANDARD 
HOURLY 
RATE 
DISCOUNT FROM 
STANDARD RATE 
Design and Analysis 
 Please see 
CDW•G's 
Professional 
Services 
Offering below 
for descriptions 
of CDW•G's 
Professional 
Services.  
  
Configuration 
% 
Implementation 
% 
Installation 
% 
Training 
% 
Maintenance & Support 
% 
CDW Configuration Services 
  
5% 
12) 
Group 12 - Additional 
Products/Services Not 
Identified 
Please see CDW•G's Configuration 
Services Pricelist below for descriptions 
and pricing of CDW•G's Configuration 
Services. 
  
Apple Products for eligible 
Government and Educational Entities 
0.50% 
CDW•G has conformed to the National Pricing structure aligning to National IPA's product taxonomy, however, CDW•G will manage the 
resultant contract according to CDW•G's Product Tree below, which shall govern all purchases and provides more breadth and a more 
complete representation of the CDW•G Catalog. All discounts will be applied by product category listed below to CDW•G's Nationally 
Advertised Pricing which is publicly verifiable at www.cdwg.com. 
 
CDW•G Product Tree 
Categories 
Discount 
Accessories 
6.75% 
Power, Cooling & Racks 
5.00% 
Desktop Computers 
3.00% 
PC Compatible Desktop Computer 
2.10% 
PC Compatible Workstation 
3.00% 
Blade PCs 
3.00% 
RISC Processor Workstation 
3.00% 
Thin Clients 
3.00% 
Web TV Access Unit 
3.00% 
80 of 268

--- page 81 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 18 of 32 
 
Windows Based Terminals 
3.00% 
Data Storage / Drives 
5.50% 
Enterprise Storage 
5.00% 
Point of Sale/Data Capture 
4.25% 
Servers & Server Management 
4.00% 
Services (CDW Delivered) 
0.00% 
Notebook/Mobile Devices 
2.50% 
Notebook Computers 
2.10% 
Notebook Accessories 
2.50% 
Wireless Communication Devices 
2.50% 
Convertible PCs/Slate PCs/iPAD 
2.25% 
Chromebooks 
0.00% 
Netcomm Products 
5.50% 
Gigabit Switch 
6.00% 
Modular Switch Chassis 
6.00% 
Modular Switches 
5.50% 
Carts and Furniture 
5.00% 
Printing & Document Scanning 
3.00% 
Services (3rd Party Delivered) 
0.00% 
Warranties-Product Protection 
3.50% 
Software 
4.00% 
Collaboration Hardware 
4.25% 
Memory/System Components 
13.00% 
Video-Projection-Pro Audio 
3.50% 
Cables 
15.00% 
CDW Configuration Services 
5.00% 
Apple Products for Eligible Entities 
.50% 
 
 
CDW•G will work with Manufacturers and the City or Participating Agencies, as applicable, post award to ensure they are aware of and 
participating in special manufacturer programs.  
 
 
CDW•G Account Managers will work with the City or Participating Agencies, as applicable, post award to determine if large orders qualify 
to receive additional discounts. These discounts are dependent on order size, delivery schedule and will be negotiated with Manufacturers.  
 
As Apple's largest Corporate Channel Partner in the U.S., CDW•G has negotiated to offer Apple Products to Eligible Government and 
Educational Entities at the discount listed above and in the pricing table in this Exhibit B.  
 
 
 
 
 
81 of 268

--- page 82 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 19 of 32 
 
CDW•G Professional Services Offering 
  
Major Metro Service Areas  
  
Washington, DC 
Raleigh 
Madison 
  
New York City 
Metro 
Houston 
Wausau 
  
Los Angeles 
Tampa 
Milwaukee 
  
San Francisco 
Atlanta 
Appleton 
  
San Diego 
National 
Grand Rapids 
  
Boston Metro 
Dallas 
Indianapolis 
  
Chicago 
Cincinnati 
Cleveland 
  
Federal 
Detroit 
  
  
Philadelphia 
Minneapolis 
  
  
Seattle 
St. Louis/KC 
  
  
  
Denver 
  
  
Nashville 
  
  
Portland 
  
  
 Services apply to both CDW•G executed professional services and services which are sub-contracted through a 
CDW•G authorized third party provider. Hourly or fixed rates will be negotiated based on the customer, geography, 
scope of the professional service engagement, and level of engineer required to perform the service. CDW•G will 
create a Statement of Work (SOW) detailing the exact scoping and pricing of the Services to be provided, which 
will be executed by CDW•G and the National IPA member prior to the start of Services.  Sample SOW is included 
in our proposal. Expenses (T and E) may be an additional consideration depending on project specifics.  
  
Solution Domain 
Discipline 
Technology Domain 
Role 
  
Datacenter 
Storage 
Data Migration 
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
EMC 
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
IBM 
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
VMWare 
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
NetApp 
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
Datacenter 
Networking & Enterprise Networking 
Infrastructure & 
Networking 
Associate Consulting Engineer 
  
Consulting Engineer 
  
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
Principal Consulting Engineer 
  
Technical Lead 
  
Mobility 
Client Management 
Client Virtualization 
Endpoint Management 
Mobile Device 
Management 
Associate Consulting Engineer 
  
Consulting Engineer 
  
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
Principal Consulting Engineer 
  
Technical Lead 
  
VDI 
Citrix 
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
Security 
Network Security 
Network Security 
Associate Consulting Engineer 
  
Consulting Engineer 
  
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
Principal Consulting Engineer 
  
Technical Lead 
82 of 268

--- page 83 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 20 of 32 
 
  
Security 
Information Security 
Information Security 
Penetration Testing 
  
Gap Analysis (HIPAA gap, PCI Gap,  
NIST) 
  
Collaboration 
Communication 
Voice, Video 
Collaboration 
Associate Consulting Engineer 
  
Consulting Engineer 
  
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
Principal Consulting Engineer 
  
Technical Lead 
  
Collaboration 
Engagement 
Contact Center 
Associate Consulting Engineer 
  
Consulting Engineer 
  
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
Principal Consulting Engineer 
  
Technical Lead 
  
Collaboration 
Productivity 
Information Worker 
Associate Consulting Engineer 
  
Consulting Engineer 
  
Senior Consulting Engineer 
  
Principal Consulting Engineer 
  
Technical Lead 
  
Consulting Advisory Services 
Consulting Advisory Services 
Consulting Advisory 
Services 
CAS_Business_Analyst 
  
CAS_Consulting_Services_Architect 
  
CAS_Engagement_Manager 
  
CAS_Technology_Architect 
  
CAS_Business_Architect 
  
Project & Program 
Management 
Project & Program Management 
Project & Program 
Management 
Project Admin 
  
Project Manager 
  
Senior Project Manager 
  
Program Manager 
  
  
  
 
 
CDW•G Configuration Services 
Service 
Group 
EDC 
Description 
 
Advertised 
Price  
 Contract 
Discount  
 Contract 
Ceiling 
Price  
Hardware Configurations and Priority Service 
Priority 
1625768 
PRIORITY SERVICE 
 $  21.99  
5% 
 $       20.89  
Hardware 
1706188 
CDW Hardware Install for Server 
 $  32.99  
5% 
 $       31.34  
Hardware 
1706189 
CDW Hardware Install for DT-LT 
 $  17.99  
5% 
 $       17.09  
Hardware 
1820627 
CDW Hardware Install for Netcom 
 $  22.99  
5% 
 $       21.84  
Hardware 
3558560 
CDW MOBILE DEVICE SIM CARD INSTALL 
 $  9.99  
5% 
 $        9.49  
Hardware 
2437037 
CDW RACK CONFIG 1 CREDIT 
 $  82.99  
5% 
 $       78.84  
Hardware 
3803338 
CDW HARDWARE INSTALL FOR PRINTER             $  32.99  
5% 
 $       31.34  
Asset Tagging 
Asset Tags 
322170 
CDW ASSET TAGS NO INSTALL MAIL ONLY 
 $  0.98  
5% 
 $        0.93  
Asset Tags 
338519 
CDW ASSET TAG W/O INSTALL 
 $  9.99  
5% 
 $        9.49  
Asset Tags 
338521 
CUSTOMER ASSET TAG CONFIG SERVICE 
 $  9.99  
5% 
 $        9.49  
Asset Tags 
500814 
CDW CREATE CUSTOM TAG/LABEL 
 $  29.99  
5% 
 $       28.49  
Asset Tags 
500815 
BASIC CUSTOM TAG 
 $  9.99  
5% 
 $        9.49  
Asset Tags 
500817 
INTERMEDIATE CUSTOM TAG 
 $  17.99  
5% 
 $       17.09  
83 of 268

--- page 84 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 21 of 32 
 
Asset Tags 
500818 
ADVANCED CUSTOM TAG 
 $  22.99  
5% 
 $       21.84  
Asset Tags 
537315 
CDW CREATED CUSTOM TAG – MAIL ONLY 
 $  1.22  
5% 
 $        1.16  
Asset Tags 
955862 
CDWG UID TAG/LABEL 
 $  9.99  
5% 
 $        9.49  
Asset Tags 
1095109 
CDW RFID TAG 
 $  61.99  
5% 
 $       58.89  
Asset Tags 
3465262 
BASIC CUSTOM TAG W/BOX DUP TAG                 $ 10.99  
5% 
 $       10.44  
Asset Tags 
3465269 
CUSTOMER ASSET TAG W/BOX DUP REQ6330 
 $  10.99  
5% 
 $       10.44  
Asset Tags 
4347185 
CUSTOMER ASSET TAG W BOX DUP REQ6247 
 $ 12.99  
5% 
 $       12.34  
Asset Tags 
3465895 
INTERMEDIATE CUSTM TAG W-BOX DUP TAG 
 $ 21.99  
5% 
 $       20.89  
Asset Tags 
3982815 
ADV CUSTOM TAG W/BOX DUP 
 $ 24.99  
5% 
 $       23.74  
Configuration Service Bundles 
Bundle 
2342089 
CDW HW IMAGE CDW ASSET TAG-REQ1173 
 $  45.99  
5% 
 $       43.69  
Bundle 
2342092 
CDW HW IMAGE BASIC CUSTM TAG-REQ1174 
 $  52.99  
5% 
 $       50.34  
Bundle 
2342096 
CDW HW IMAG CUSTMR ASSET TAG-REQ1175 
 $  52.99  
5% 
 $       50.34  
Bundle 
2342098 
CDW IMAG CSTMR ASSET TAG PRI-REQ1176 
 $  46.99  
5% 
 $       44.64  
Bundle 
2342102 
CDW IMAGE CDW ASSET TAG PRI-REQ1177 
 $  39.99  
5% 
 $       37.99  
Bundle 
2342106 
CDW HW IMAGE PRIORITY-REQ1178 
 $ 53.99  
5% 
 $       51.29  
Bundle 
2423730 
CDW HW IMAGE CDW ASSET PRI-REQ1193 
 $ 53.99  
5% 
 $       51.29  
Bundle 
2423732 
CDW HW IMG BSC CSTM TAG PRI-REQ1194 
 $ 59.99  
5% 
 $       56.99  
Bundle 
2423734 
CDW HW IMAG CUSTMR ASSET PRI-REQ1195 
 $ 59.99  
5% 
 $       56.99  
Bundle 
2426793 
CDW IMAGE CUSTMER ASSET TAG-REQ1197 
 $ 39.99  
5% 
 $       37.99  
Bundle 
2426795 
CDW IMAGE CDW ASSET TAG-REQ1198 
 $ 32.99  
5% 
 $       31.34  
Bundle 
2426798 
CDW HARDWARE IMAGE DEPLOY-REQ1199 
 $ 45.99  
5% 
 $       43.69  
Bundle 
2853723 
CDW IMAGE BASIC CUSTOM TAG-REQ1324 
 $ 39.99  
5% 
 $       37.99  
Bundle 
2853726 
CDW IMAGE BIOS CUSTOMIZATION-REQ1325 
 $ 39.99  
5% 
 $       37.99  
Bundle 
3269810 
CDW HW IMG INTRM TAG CMPTRAC REQ1901 
 $ 63.99  
5% 
 $       60.79  
Bundle 
3327808 
CDW LIGHT TOUCH IMAGE DEPLOY W-VPN 
 $ 42.99  
5% 
 $       40.84  
Bundle 
4008018 
LEVEL 1 IOS\ETCH INSERT REQ 5075 
 $ 39.99  
5% 
 $       37.99  
Bundle 
4008025 
LEVEL 1 IOS\ETCH REQ 5076 
 $ 33.99  
5% 
 $       32.29  
Bundle 
4041681 
IOS LVL1 & SRVC CUST INSERT REQ5156 
 $ 28.99  
5% 
 $       27.54  
Bundle 
4056755 
INT CUST TAG&DUP + DATA CAP CONTRACT 
 $ 21.99  
5% 
 $       20.89  
Bundle 
4086733 
CDW LT IMAGE DEPLOY W/VPN&BOX LABEL 
 $ 44.99  
5% 
 $       42.74  
Bundle 
4171085 
COI SPECOPS & PROJECTMANGEMENT R5611 
 $ 569.99  
5% 
 $     541.49  
Diagnostics 
Diagnostics 
214266 
CDW BURN IN 12 HOURS 
 $ 21.99  
5% 
 $       20.89  
Imaging 
Imaging 
195856 
CDW INSTALLING CUSTOM SERVER IMAGE 
 $ 113.99  
5% 
 $     108.29  
Imaging 
247489 
HILL ROM CREATE CUSTOM RESTORE CD 
 $ 49.99  
5% 
 $       47.49  
Imaging 
266912 
CDW APPLE IMAGE DEPLOYMENT 
 $ 32.99  
5% 
 $       31.34  
Imaging 
283926 
CDW MASTER IMAGE CREATION CREDIT 
 $ 183.99  
5% 
 $     174.79  
Imaging 
379370 
CDW INSTALLING CUSTOM PDA IMAGE 
 $ 17.99  
5% 
 $       17.09  
Imaging 
534223 
CDW STANDARD IMAGE DEPLOYMENT DT/NB 
 $ 32.99  
5% 
 $       31.34  
Imaging 
763587 
FLASH DRIVE IMAGING 
 $ 9.99  
5% 
 $        9.49  
Imaging 
763593 
CDW USB RESTORE UPTO 16GB 
 $ 39.99  
5% 
 $       37.99  
Imaging 
809048 
CDW MAINTAIN CUSTOM PC IMAGE-CREDIT 
 $ 31.99  
5% 
 $       30.39  
Imaging 
1640342 
CDW INSTALLING ALTIRIS SERVER IMAGE 
 $ 113.99  
5% 
 $     108.29  
Imaging 
1926223 
CDW TERMINAL IMAGE DEPLOYMENT 
 $ 32.99  
5% 
 $       31.34  
Imaging 
2691836 
CDW ZERO TOUCH IMAGE DEPLOYMENT 
 $ 32.99  
5% 
 $       31.34  
Imaging 
2798606 
CDW IMAGE MODEL MIGRATION CREDIT 
 $ 113.99  
5% 
 $     108.29  
84 of 268

--- page 85 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 22 of 32 
 
Imaging 
2869570 
CDW USB RESTORE UPTO 32GB 
 $ 52.99  
5% 
 $       50.34  
Imaging 
3652393 
CDW CREATE CUSTOM RECOVERY PARTITION  
 $ 353.99  
5% 
 $     336.29  
Imaging 
3765107 
SERVER RACKING ADV IMAGING SVC                  $ 219.99  
5% 
 $     208.99  
Imaging 
3982809 
CDW USB RESTORE SVC UPTO 64GB 
 $ 63.99  
5% 
 $       60.79  
Imaging 
4008336 
CHROME WHITE GLOVE SERVICE TIER1 
 $ 22.93  
5% 
 $       21.78  
Imaging 
4008354 
CHROME WHITE GLOVE SERVICE TIER2 
 $ 24.93  
5% 
 $       23.68  
Imaging 
4419882 
CHROME UNMANAGED KIOSK APP INSTALL 
 $ 28.92  
5% 
 $       27.47  
Imaging 
4086723 
CDW IMAGE DEPLOY W BOX LABEL REQ6281 
 $ 33.99  
5% 
 $       32.29  
Imaging 
4086738 
CDW SCCM SRV-ZERO TOUCH W/BOX LABEL 
 $ 33.99  
5% 
 $       32.29  
Laser Etching / Color Branding 
Laser Etching 
1461344 
CDW LASER ETCHING-TIER 1 STATIC SML 
 $ 11.00  
5% 
 $       10.45  
Laser Etching 
2815190 
CDW LASER ETCHING-TIER 2 STATIC LRG 
 $ 15.00  
5% 
 $       14.25  
Laser Etching 
2815191 
CDW LASER ETCHING-TIER 3 DYNAMIC 
 $ 22.00  
5% 
 $       20.90  
Color Branding 
3223260 
CDW COLOR BRANDING TEMPLATE 
 $    -    
5% 
 $            -    
Color Branding 
4100630 
CDW COLOR BRANDING TIER 1 
 $ 15.00  
5% 
 $       14.25  
Color Branding 
3223250 
CDW COLOR BRANDING TIER 2 
 $ 22.00  
5% 
 $       20.90  
Color Branding 
3436605 
CDW COLOR BRANDING TIER 3 
 $  30.00  
5% 
 $       28.50  
Mobile Carts 
Mobile Carts 
4466480 
CDW CHROMEBOOK WIRE CART CONFIG 
 $ 120.00  
5% 
 $     114.00  
Netcom 
Netcom 
311718 
CDW NETWORK & SECURITY DEVICE CONFIG 
 $ 40.00  
5% 
 $       38.00  
Netcom 
1550455 
CDW NETWORK & SEC CHASSIS CONFIG BUN 
 $ 100.00  
5% 
 $       95.00  
Netcom 
1550460 
CDW NETWORK & SEC DEVICE CONFIG BUN 
 $ 65.00  
5% 
 $       61.75  
Netcom 
2394839 
CDW NETWORK & SEC CHASSIS CONFIG 
 $ 70.00  
5% 
 $       66.50  
Netcom 
2432019 
CDW VPN DOMAIN JOIN ONLY 
 $  8.00  
5% 
 $        7.60  
Netcom 
3628500 
CDW VPN DOMAIN JOIN ONLY-PCA                     $  8.00  
5% 
 $        7.60  
Netcom 
3651585 
CDW AP/ENDPOINT PROVISIONING 
 $  30.00  
5% 
 $       28.50  
Netcom 
4121801 
CDW AP/ENDPOINT FIRMWARE UPDATE 
 $ 16.00  
5% 
 $       15.20  
Netcom 
4219966 
CDW CLIENT VPN CONFIGURATION 
 $ 12.00  
5% 
 $       11.40  
Other 
Other 
504311 
CDW HP ILO ACTIVATION 
 $ 12.00  
5% 
 $       11.40  
Other 
872360 
CDW SYSTEM BIOS/FIRMWARE UPG 
 $ 16.00  
5% 
 $       15.20  
Other 
1197175 
CDW CUSTOM IP CONFIGURATION 
 $ 12.00  
5% 
 $       11.40  
Other 
1197180 
CDW BIOS CUSTOMIZATION 
 $  5.00  
5% 
 $        4.75  
Other 
1369901 
CDW SRVC CUSTOM ADDED INSERTS  
 $  5.00  
5% 
 $        4.75  
Other 
1369904 
CDW DDS / COMPUTRACE ACTIVATION 
 $  5.00  
5% 
 $        4.75  
Other 
1369905 
CDW DATA CAPTURE & TRACKING SRVC  
 $  5.00  
5% 
 $        4.75  
Other 
1713539 
CDW SPECIAL CONFIG REQ - 1 CREDIT               $  5.00  
5% 
 $        4.75  
Other 
1713542 
CDW SPECIAL CONFIG REQ - 6 CREDITS             $  30.00  
5% 
 $       28.50  
Other 
1713544 
CDW SPECIAL CONFIG REQ - 12 CREDITS            $  60.00  
5% 
 $       57.00  
Other 
2366694 
CDW APPLE IOS CUSTOMIZATION LVL 1 
 $ 15.00  
5% 
 $       14.25  
Other 
2366709 
CDW APPLE IOS CUSTOMIZATION LVL 2 
 $  30.00  
5% 
 $       28.50  
Other 
2613286 
CDW ANDROID CUSTOMIZATION LVL 1 
 $15.00  
5% 
 $       14.25  
Other 
2613287 
CDW ANDROID CUSTOMIZATION LVL 2 
 $  30.00  
5% 
 $       28.50  
Other 
2671476 
CDW SCREEN OVERLAY INSTALL SERVICE 
 $  8.00  
5% 
 $        7.60  
Other 
2696504 
CDW Hard Drive Data Encryption DT/NB 
 $  12.00  
5% 
 $       11.40  
Other 
2828923 
CDW SAS RAID Activation 
 $ 12.00  
5% 
 $       11.40  
Other 
2858009 
CDW KINDLE AD REMOVAL REQ1329 
 $ 30.00  
5% 
 $       28.50  
85 of 268

--- page 86 ---
EXHIBIT B 
PRICING 
 
 
Page 23 of 32 
 
Other 
3553290 
CDW APPLE ID CREATION                              
 $  5.00  
5% 
 $        4.75  
Other 
3899153 
CDW VPRO BASIC ACTIVATION REQ4717 
 $  5.00  
5% 
 $        4.75  
Other 
4248044 
CDW LENOVO IMM ACTIVATION 
 $ 12.00  
5% 
 $       11.40  
Other 
4176320 
CDW ASSET MGMNT UPDATE SVC REQ 5634 
 $  1.25  
5% 
 $        1.19  
Software 
Software 
76056 
CDW APPLICATION INSTALL DT/NB 
 $  36.00  
5% 
 $       34.20  
Software 
76980 
CDW NETWORK OPERATING SYSTEM INSTALL 
 $  200.00  
5% 
 $     190.00  
Software 
346243 
CDW STD WINDOWS CLIENT OS INSTALL 
 $  90.00  
5% 
 $       85.50  
Software 
931000 
CDW NETWORK APPLICATION INSTALL 
 $  100.00  
5% 
 $       95.00  
Software 
1197183 
CDW APPLICATION UPDATES AND 
MAINTENANCE 
 $  22.00  
5% 
 $       20.90  
Software 
1278296 
CDW OEM MFG OS INSTALLATION 
 $ 90.00  
5% 
 $       85.50  
Software 
1291101 
CDW LINUX INSTALLATION OS-ALL VERS 
 $  120.00  
5% 
 $     114.00  
Software 
1550439 
SUN SOLARIS INSTALLATION – ALL VERSIONS 
 $  200.00  
5% 
 $     190.00  
Software 
1550447 
VMWARE INSTALLATION – ALL VERSIONS 
 $  70.00  
5% 
 $       66.50  
Software 
3803347 
CDW SOFTWARE CONFIG FOR PRINTER              $ 24.00  
5% 
 $       22.80  
Software 
3982800 
CDW HDD OS SWAP SVC REQ5012 
 $  36.00  
5% 
 $       34.20  
Configuration Project Management / COI 
Proj. Mgmt 
3110955 
CDW CONFIG PROJECT COORD HRLY CREDIT      $ 75.00  
5% 
 $       71.25  
Proj. Mgmt 
4289890 
CDW CONFIG PM 150 HRLY CHARGE 
 $  150.00  
5% 
 $     142.50  
Proj. Mgmt 
3536706 
CDW COI PROJ COORD /OPS COST 
 $ 5,000.00  
5% 
 $  4,750.00  
Proj. Mgmt 
3543509 
CDW CONFIG PROJECT COORD CREDIT/UNIT 
 $ 5.00  
5% 
 $        4.75  
Proj. Mgmt 
3752290 
CDW PROJ MNGMNT CONFIG AP SVC 
 $ 7.00  
5% 
 $        6.65  
Proj. Mgmt 
4086747 
CONFIGS SERVICES PROJ MGMT(PER UNIT) 
 $  1.00  
5% 
 $        0.95  
Proj. Mgmt 
4087191 
CONFIGS SERVICES PROJ MGMT(PER UNIT) 
 $    0.50  
5% 
 $        0.48  
COI 
3268855 
CDW CONFIG PROJECT COORD COI SVC             $ 300.00  
5% 
 $     285.00  
COI 
3561536 
COI OPS PALLET RECEIVING/PROCESSING 
 $ 480.00  
5% 
 $     456.00  
COI 
4439488 
COI OPS PALLET/MONTH REC/PRO 
 $  40.00  
5% 
 $       38.00  
COI 
3659769 
CDW COI OPERATIONAL EXPENSE WITH SN        $  10.00  
5% 
 $        9.50  
COI 
3827583 
COI TEMP TAG NO INSTALL E-MAIL 
 $ 10.00  
5% 
 $        9.50  
 
86 of 268

--- page 87 ---
EXHIBIT C 
MESA STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
Page 24 of 32 
 
 
1. 
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR.  It is expressly understood that the relationship of Contractor to 
the City will be that of an independent contractor.  Contractor and all persons employed by 
Contractor, either directly or indirectly, are Contractor’s employees, not City employees.  
Accordingly, Contractor and Contractor’s employees are not entitled to any benefits provided to 
City employees including, but not limited to, health benefits, enrollment in a retirement system, paid 
time off or other rights afforded City employees.  Contractor employees will not be regarded as City 
employees or agents for any purpose, including the payment of unemployment or workers’ 
compensation.  If any Contractor employees or subcontractors assert a claim for wages or other 
employment benefits against the City, Contractor will defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City 
from all such claims. 
2. 
SUBCONTRACTING.  Contractor may not subcontract work under this Agreement without the 
express written permission of the City.  If Contractor has received authorization to subcontract work, 
it is agreed that all subcontractors performing work under the Agreement must comply with its 
provisions. Further, all agreements between Contractor and its subcontractors must provide that 
the terms and conditions of this Agreement be incorporated therein. 
3. 
ASSIGNMENT.  This Agreement may not be assigned either in whole or in part without first 
receiving the City’s written consent.  Any attempted assignment, either in whole or in part, without 
such consent will be null and void and in such event the City will have the right at its option to 
terminate the Agreement.  No granting of consent to any assignment will relieve Contractor from 
any of its obligations and liabilities under the Agreement. 
4. 
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, BINDING EFFECT.  This Agreement will be binding upon and 
inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective permitted successors and assigns. 
5. 
NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES.  This Agreement is intended for the exclusive benefit of the 
parties.  Nothing set forth in this Agreement is intended to create, or will create, any benefits, rights, 
or responsibilities in any third parties.  
6. 
NON-EXCLUSIVITY.  The City, in its sole discretion, reserves the right to request the materials or 
services set forth herein from other sources when deemed necessary and appropriate.  No 
exclusive rights are encompassed through this Agreement. 
7. 
AMENDMENTS.  There will be no oral changes to this Agreement.  This Agreement can only be 
modified in a writing signed by both parties.  No charge for extra work or material will be allowed 
unless approved in writing, in advance, by the City and Contractor. 
8. 
TIME OF THE ESSENCE.  Time is of the essence to the performance of the parties’ obligations 
under this Agreement. 
9. 
COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS. 
a. General.  Contractor must procure all permits and licenses, and pay all charges and fees 
necessary and incidental to the lawful conduct of business. Contractor must stay fully informed 
of existing and future federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations that in any 
manner affect the fulfillment of this Agreement and must comply with the same at its own 
expense. Contractor bears full responsibility for training, safety, and providing necessary 
equipment for all Contractor personnel to achieve throughout the term of the Agreement. Upon 
request, Contractor will demonstrate to the City's satisfaction any programs, procedures, and 
other activities used to ensure compliance.    
b. Drug-Free Workplace.  Contractor is hereby advised that the City has adopted a policy 
establishing a drug-free workplace for itself and those doing business with the City to ensure 
the safety and health of all persons working on City contracts and projects.  Contractor will 
require a drug-free workplace for all Contractor personnel working under this Agreement.  
Specifically, all Contractor personnel who are working under this Agreement must be notified 
in writing by Contractor that they are prohibited from the manufacture, distribution, 
dispensation, possession, or unlawful use of a controlled substance in the workplace.  
87 of 268

--- page 88 ---
EXHIBIT C 
MESA STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
Page 25 of 32 
 
Contractor agrees to prohibit the use of intoxicating substances by all Contractor personnel, 
and will ensure that Contractor personnel do not use or possess illegal drugs while in the course 
of performing their duties. 
c. Federal and State Immigration Laws.  Contractor agrees to comply with the Immigration 
Reform and Control Act of 1986 (IRCA) in performance under this Agreement and to permit the 
City and its agents to inspect applicable personnel records to verify such compliance as 
permitted by law.  Contractor will ensure and keep appropriate records to demonstrate that all 
Contractor personnel have a legal right to live and work in the United States. 
i. 
As applicable to Contractor, under the provisions of A.R.S. § 41-4401, Contractor hereby 
warrants to the City that Contractor and each of its subcontractors will comply with, and 
are contractually obligated to comply with, all federal immigration laws and regulations that 
relate to their employees and A.R.S. § 23-214(A) (hereinafter “Contractor Immigration 
Warranty”). 
ii. 
A breach of the Contractor Immigration Warranty will constitute as a material breach of this 
Agreement and will subject Contractor to penalties up to and including termination of this 
Agreement at the sole discretion of the City. 
iii. The City retains the legal right to inspect the papers of all Contractor personnel who provide 
services under this Agreement to ensure that Contractor or its subcontractors are 
complying with the Contractor Immigration Warranty. Contractor agrees to assist the City 
in regard to any such inspections. 
iv. The City may, at its sole discretion, conduct random verification of the employment records 
of Contractor and any subcontractor to ensure compliance with the Contractor Immigration 
Warranty. Contractor agrees to assist the City in regard to any random verification 
performed.  
v. Neither Contractor nor any subcontractor will be deemed to have materially breached the 
Contractor Immigration Warranty if Contractor or subcontractor establishes that it has 
complied with the employment verification provisions prescribed by Sections 274A and 
274B of the Federal Immigration and Nationality Act and the E-Verify requirements 
prescribed by A.R.S. § 23-214 (A). 
d. Nondiscrimination.  Contractor represents and warrants that it does not discriminate against 
any employee or applicant for employment or person to whom it provides services because of 
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or disability, and represents and warrants that it 
complies with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and executive orders regarding 
employment. Contractor and Contractor’s personnel will comply with applicable provisions of 
Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, Section 504 of the Federal 
Rehabilitation Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.), and 
applicable rules in performance under this Agreement. 
e. State Sponsors of Terrorism Prohibition.  Per A.R.S. § 35-392, Contractor must not be in 
violation of section 6(j) of the Federal Export Administration Act and subsequently prohibited 
by the State of Arizona from selling goods of services to the City. 
10. 
SALES/USE TAX, OTHER TAXES. 
a. Contractor is responsible for the payment of all taxes including federal, state, and local taxes 
related to or arising out of Contractor’s services under this Agreement, including by way of 
illustration but not limitation, federal and state income tax, Social Security tax, unemployment 
insurance taxes, and any other taxes or business license fees as required.  If any taxing 
authority should deem Contractor or Contractor employees an employee of the City, or should 
otherwise claim the City is liable for the payment of taxes that are Contractor’s responsibility 
under this Agreement, Contractor will indemnify the City for any tax liability, interest, and 
penalties imposed upon the City.   
88 of 268

--- page 89 ---
EXHIBIT C 
MESA STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
Page 26 of 32 
 
b. The City is exempt from paying certain federal excise taxes and will furnish an exemption 
certificate upon request. The City is not exempt from state and local sales/use taxes. 
11. 
AMOUNTS DUE THE CITY.  Contractor must be current and remain current in all obligations due 
to the City during the performance of Services under the Agreement.  Payments to Contractor may 
be offset by any delinquent amounts due the City or fees and charges owed to the City. 
12. 
PUBLIC RECORDS.  Contractor acknowledges that the City is a public entity, subject to Arizona’s 
public records laws (A.R.S. § 39-121 et. seq.) and that any documents related to this Agreement 
may be subject to disclosure pursuant to state law in response to a public records request or to 
subpoena or other judicial process.  
a. 
If Contractor believes document related to the Agreement contains trade secrets or other 
proprietary data, Contractor must notify the City and include with the notification a statement 
that explains and supports Contractor’s claim.  Contractor also must specifically identify the 
trade secrets or other proprietary data that Contractor believes should remain confidential.  
 
b. 
In the event the City determines it is legally required to disclose pursuant to law any 
documents or information Contractor deems confidential trade secrets or proprietary data, 
the City, to the extent possible, will provide Contractor with prompt written notice by certified 
mail, fax, email or other method that tracks delivery status of the requirement to disclose the 
information so Contractor may seek a protective order from a court having jurisdiction over 
the matter or obtain other appropriate remedies. The notice will include a time period for 
Contractor to seek court ordered protection or other legal remedies as deemed appropriate 
by Contractor. If Contractor does not obtain such court ordered protection by the expiration 
of said time period, the City may release the information without further notice to Contractor. 
 
13. 
AUDITS AND RECORDS.  Contractor must preserve the records related to this Agreement for six 
(6) years after completion of the Agreement.  The City or its authorized agent reserves the right to 
inspect any records related to the performance of work specified herein.  In addition, the City may 
inspect any and all payroll, billing or other relevant records kept by Contractor in relation to the 
Agreement.  Contractor will permit such inspections and audits during normal business hours and 
upon reasonable notice by the City.  The audit of records may occur at Contractor’s place of 
business or at City offices, as determined by the City.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any 
Agreement audits must be pursuant to a signed Confidentiality Agreement agreed to by both parties 
which will be subject to applicable law, including the Arizona Public Records law.  Contractor is not 
required to keep original documents and copies of relevant documents will suffice for the purposes 
of this provision.  The audit must be conducted during regular business hours at a mutually 
agreeable time and location, and upon reasonable advanced notice of records to be audited.  
14. 
BACKGROUND CHECK.  The City may conduct criminal, driver history, and all other requested 
background checks of Contractor personnel who would perform services under the Agreement or 
who will have access to the City’s information, data, or facilities in accordance with the City’s current 
background check policies.  Any officer, employee, or agent that fails the background check must 
be replaced immediately for any reasonable cause not prohibited by law. 
15. 
SECURITY CLEARANCE AND REMOVAL OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL.    The City will 
have final authority, based on security reasons: (i) to determine when security clearance of 
Contractor personnel is required; (ii) to determine the nature of the security clearance, up to and 
including fingerprinting Contractor personnel; and (iii) to determine whether or not any individual or 
entity may provide services under this Agreement.  If the City objects to any Contractor personnel 
for any reasonable cause not prohibited by law, then Contractor will, upon notice from the City, 
remove any such individual from performance of services under this Agreement. 
16. 
DEFAULT. 
a. A party will be in default if that party: 
89 of 268

--- page 90 ---
EXHIBIT C 
MESA STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
Page 27 of 32 
 
i. 
Is or becomes insolvent or is a party to any voluntary bankruptcy or receivership 
proceeding, makes an assignment for a creditor, or there is any similar action that affects 
Contractor’s capability to perform under the Agreement; 
ii. 
Is the subject of a petition for involuntary bankruptcy not removed within sixty (60) calendar 
days; 
iii. Conducts business in an unethical manner as set forth in the City Procurement Rules 
Article 7 or in an illegal manner; or 
iv. Fails to carry out any term, promise, or condition of the Agreement. 
 
b.  Contractor will be in default of this Agreement if Contractor is debarred from participating in 
City procurements and solicitations in accordance with Article 6 of the City’s Procurement 
Rules. 
c. Notice and Opportunity to Cure.  In the event a party is in default then the other party may, 
at its option and at any time, provide written notice to the defaulting party of the default.  The 
defaulting party will have thirty (30) days from receipt of the notice to cure the default; the thirty 
(30) day cure period may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties, but no cure period 
may exceed ninety (90) days. A default notice will be deemed to be sufficient if it is reasonably 
calculated to provide notice of the nature and extent of such default.  Failure of the non-
defaulting party to provide notice of the default does not waive any rights under the Agreement. 
d. Anticipatory Repudiation.  Whenever the City in good faith has reason to question 
Contractor’s intent or ability to perform, the City may demand that Contractor give a written 
assurance of its intent and ability to perform. In the event that the demand is made and no 
written assurance is given within five (5) calendar days, the City may treat this failure as an 
anticipatory repudiation of the Agreement. 
 
17. 
REMEDIES.  The remedies set forth in this Agreement are not exclusive.  Election of one remedy 
will not preclude the use of other remedies.  In the event of default: 
a. The non-defaulting party may terminate the Agreement, and the termination will be effective 
immediately or at such other date as specified by the terminating party. 
b. The City may purchase the services required under the Agreement from the open market, 
complete required work itself, or have it completed at the expense of Contractor. If the cost of 
obtaining substitute services exceeds the contract price, the City may recover the excess cost 
by: (i) requiring immediate reimbursement to the City; (ii) deduction from an unpaid balance 
due to Contractor; (iii) collection against the proposal and/or performance security, if any; (iv) 
collection against liquidated damages (if applicable); or (v) a combination of the 
aforementioned remedies or other remedies as provided by law.  Costs includes any and all, 
fees, and expenses incurred in obtaining substitute services and expended in obtaining 
reimbursement, including, but not limited to, administrative expenses, attorneys’ fees, and 
costs. 
c. The non-defaulting party will have all other rights granted under this Agreement and all rights 
at law or in equity that may be available to it. 
d. Neither party will be liable for incidental, special, or consequential damages. 
18. 
CONTINUATION DURING DISPUTES.  Contractor agrees that during any dispute between the 
parties, Contractor will continue to perform its obligations until the dispute is settled, instructed to 
cease performance by the City, enjoined or prohibited by judicial action, or otherwise required or 
obligated to cease performance by other provisions in this Agreement. 
19. 
TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE.  The City reserves the right to terminate this Agreement in 
part or in whole upon thirty (30) calendar days’ written notice. 
20. 
TERMINATION FOR CONFLICT OF INTEREST (A.R.S. § 38-511).  Pursuant to A.R.S. § 38-511, 
the City may cancel this Agreement within three (3) years after its execution, without penalty or 
90 of 268

--- page 91 ---
EXHIBIT C 
MESA STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
Page 28 of 32 
 
further obligation, if any person significantly involved in initiating, securing, drafting, or creating the 
Agreement for the City becomes an employee or agent of Contractor. 
21. 
TERMINATION FOR NON-APPROPRIATION AND MODIFICATION FOR BUDGETARY 
CONSTRAINT.  The City is a governmental agency which relies upon the appropriation of funds 
by its governing body to satisfy its obligations. If the City reasonably determines that it does not 
have funds to meet its obligations under this Agreement, the City will have the right to terminate 
the Agreement without penalty on the last day of the fiscal period for which funds were legally 
available.  In the event of such termination, the City agrees to provide written notice of its intent to 
terminate thirty (30) calendar days prior to the stated termination date.  
22. 
PAYMENT TO CONTRACTOR UPON TERMINATION.  Upon termination of this Agreement, 
Contractor will be entitled only to payment for those services performed up to the date of 
termination, and any authorized expenses already incurred up to such date of termination.  The 
City will make final payment within thirty (30) calendar days after the City has both completed its 
appraisal of the materials and services provided and received Contractor’s properly prepared final 
invoice. 
23. 
NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS.  There will be no waiver of any provision of this agreement unless 
approved in writing and signed by the waiving party.  Failure or delay to exercise any rights or 
remedies provided herein or by law or in equity, or the acceptance of, or payment for, any services 
hereunder, will not release the other party of any of the warranties or other obligations of the 
Agreement and will not be deemed a waiver of any such rights or remedies. 
24. 
INDEMNIFICATION/LIABILITY. 
 
 
 
a. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Contractor agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold the 
City, its officers, agents, and employees, harmless from and against any and all liabilities, 
demands, claims, suits, losses, damages, causes of action, fines or judgments, including 
costs, attorneys’, witnesses’, and expert witnesses’ fees, and expenses incident thereto, 
relating to, arising out of, or resulting from: (i) misconduct by Contractor personnel under this 
Agreement; (ii) any negligent acts, errors, mistakes or omissions by Contractor or Contractor 
personnel; and (iii) Contractor or Contractor personnel’s failure to comply with this 
Agreement. However, notwithstanding the prior sentence, any claim shall not be an 
indemnified claim if such claim or damage was caused in whole by the actions of the City, its 
employees, agents, contractors or representatives. 
b. Contractor will update the City during the course of the litigation to timely notify the City of any 
issues that may involve the independent negligence of the City that is not covered by this 
indemnification. 
c. The City assumes no liability for actions of Contractor and will not indemnify or hold Contractor 
or any third party harmless for claims based on this Agreement or use of Contractor-provided 
supplies or Services. 
d. IN THE EVENT OF ANY LIABILITY INCURRED BY CONTRACTOR OR ANY OF ITS 
AFFILIATES HEREUNDER, INCLUDING INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY BY CONTRACTOR, 
THE ENTIRE LIABILITY OF CONTRACTOR AND ITS AFFILIATES FOR DAMAGES FROM 
ANY CAUSE WHATSOEVER WILL NOT EXCEED $5,000,000.00 OVER THE ENTIRE TERM 
OF THE AGREEMENT. 
25. 
WARRANTY.  Contractor warrants that the services and materials will conform to the requirements 
of Exhibit A. Additionally, Contractor warrants that all services will be performed in a good, 
workman-like and professional manner, as stated below. 
a. Manufacturer’s Warranty.  The City understands that the Contractor is not the manufacturer of 
the products purchased by the City hereunder and the only materials (product) warranties 
offered are those of the manufacturer, not the Contractor or its affiliates unless the 
manufacturer is the Contractor or its affiliates. THE CONTRACTOR AND ITS AFFILIATES 
HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, 
91 of 268

--- page 92 ---
EXHIBIT C 
MESA STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
Page 29 of 32 
 
RELATED TO PRODUCTS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTY OF 
TITLE, ACCURACY, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, 
WARRANTY OF NONINFRINGEMENT, OR ANY WARRANTY RELATING TO THIRD PARTY 
SERVICES. THE DISCLAIMER CONTAINED IN THIS PARAGRAPH DOES NOT AFFECT 
THE TERMS OF ANY MANUFACTURER'S WARRANTY. 
 
b. Services Warranty.  City's sole and exclusive remedy with respect to a warranty on the Services 
provided by Contractor will be, at the sole option of Contractor, to either: (a) use its reasonable 
commercial efforts to reperform any services not in substantial compliance with this warranty, 
or (b) refund amounts paid by City related to the portion of the services not in substantial 
compliance; provided, in each case, City notifies Contractor in writing within five (5) business 
days after performance of the applicable Services.  City shall be solely responsible for daily 
back-up and other protection of its data and software against loss, damage or corruption during 
the performance of services and for any necessary reconstruction thereof.   
 
c. Third Party Services Warranty.  In connection with the products (materials), certain services, 
such as extended warranty service by manufacturers, are sold by the Contractor as a distributor 
or sales agent ("Third Party Services"). In the case of Third Party Services, the third party will 
be the party responsible for providing the services to the City and the City will look to the third 
party for any loss, claims or damages arising from or related to the provision of such Third-
Party Services. Any amounts, including, but not limited to, taxes, associated with Third Party 
Services which may be collected by the Contractor will be collected solely in the capacity as 
an independent sales agent. 
26. 
THE CITY’S RIGHT TO RECOVER AGAINST THIRD PARTIES.  Contractor will do nothing to 
prejudice the City’s right to recover against third parties for any loss, destruction, or damage to City 
property, and will at the City’s request and expense, furnish to the City reasonable assistance and 
cooperation, including assistance in the prosecution or defense of suit and the execution of 
instruments of assignment in favor of the City in obtaining recovery. 
27. 
NO GUARANTEE OF WORK.  Contractor acknowledges and agrees that it is not entitled to deliver 
any specific amount of materials or services or any materials or services at all under this Agreement 
and acknowledges and agrees that the materials or services will be requested by the City on an as 
needed basis at the sole discretion of the City.  Any document referencing quantities or 
performance frequencies represent the City's best estimate of current requirements, but will not 
bind the City to purchase, accept, or pay for materials or services which exceed its actual needs. 
28. 
OWNERSHIP.   
a. Except as it pertains to the Work Product in Subsection (b) below, all deliverables, services, 
and information provided by Contractor or the City pursuant to this Agreement (whether 
electronically or manually generated) including without limitation, reports, test plans, and 
survey results, graphics, and technical tables, originally prepared in the performance of this 
Agreement, are the property of the City and will not be used or released by Contractor or any 
other person except with prior written permission by the City.   
b. City's rights to Work Product (meaning deliverables to be provided or created individually or 
jointly in connection with the services, not materials, provided by Contractor, including but not 
limited to, all inventions, discoveries, methods, processes, formulae, ideas, concepts, 
techniques, know-how, data, designs, models, prototypes, works of authorship, computer 
programs, proprietary tools, methods of analysis and other information, whether or not capable 
of protection by patent, copyright, trade secret, confidentiality, or other proprietary rights, or 
discovered in the course of performance of this Agreement that are embodied in such work or 
materials) will be, upon payment in full, a non-transferable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license 
to use such Work Product solely for City's internal use. City obtains no ownership or other 
property rights thereto. City agrees that Contractor may incorporate intellectual property 
created by third parties into the Work Product and that City’s right to use such Work Product 
may be subject to the rights of, and limited by agreements with, such third parties 
92 of 268

--- page 93 ---
EXHIBIT C 
MESA STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
Page 30 of 32 
 
29. 
USE OF NAME.  Contractor will not use the name of the City of Mesa in any advertising or publicity 
without obtaining the prior written consent of the City. 
30. 
PROHIBITED ACTS.  Pursuant to A.R.S. § 38-504, a current or former public officer or employee 
within the last twelve (12) months shall not represent another organization before the City on any 
matter for which the officer or employee was directly concerned and personally participated in 
during their service or employment or over which they had a substantial or material administrative 
discretion.  Further, while employed by the City and for two (2) years thereafter, public officers or 
employees are prohibited from disclosing or using, without appropriate authorization, any 
confidential information acquired by such personnel in the course of his or her official duties at the 
City. 
31. 
FOB DESTINATION FREIGHT PREPAID AND ALLOWED.  All deliveries will be FOB destination 
freight prepaid and allowed unless otherwise agreed.   
32. 
RISK OF LOSS.  Contractor agrees to bear all risks of loss, injury, or destruction of Contractor’s 
goods or equipment incidental to providing these services and such loss, injury, or destruction will 
not release Contractor from any obligation hereunder. 
33. 
SAFEGUARDING CITY PROPERTY.  Contractor will be responsible for any damage to City real 
property or damage or loss of City personal property when such property is the responsibility of or 
in the custody of Contractor or its employees. 
34. 
WARRANTY OF RIGHTS.  Contractor warrants it has title to, or the right to allow the City to use, 
the materials and services being provided and that the City may use same without suit, trouble or 
hindrance from Contractor or third parties. 
35. 
PROPRIETARY RIGHTS INDEMNIFICATION.  Without limiting the foregoing, Contractor will at its 
expense defend the City against all claims asserted by any person that anything provided by 
Contractor infringes a patent, copyright, trade secret or other intellectual property right (collectively 
“Claim”) and must, without limitation, pay the costs, damages and attorneys' fees awarded against 
the City in any Claim, or pay any settlement of such Claim. Each party agrees to notify the other 
promptly of any matters to which this provision may apply and to cooperate with each other in 
connection with such defense or settlement. If a preliminary or final judgment is obtained against 
the City’s use or operation of the items provided by Contractor hereunder or any part thereof by 
reason of any alleged infringement, Contractor will, at its sole option and its expense and without 
limitation, either: (a) modify the item so that it becomes non-infringing; (b) procure for the City the 
right to continue to use the item; (c) substitute for the infringing item other item(s) having at least 
equivalent capability; or (d) refund to the City an amount equal to the price paid, less reasonable 
usage, from the time of installation acceptance through cessation of use, which amount will be 
calculated on a useful life not less than five (5) years based on a five (5) year straight line amortized 
basis. The forgoing provisions in this Section state the entire liability of Contractor and the sole and 
exclusive remedy of the City with respect to any Claim.  Contractor shall have no liability or 
obligation to the City to the extent any Claim is based upon: (i) any combination of anything provided 
by Contractor with other software, hardware or other materials not authorized by Contractor or 
manufacturer; or (ii) any addition to, or modification of, anything provided by Contractor made after 
delivery to the City by any person other than Contractor. 
36. 
CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION.  The contract will be administered by the Purchasing 
Administrator and/or an authorized representative from the using department.  All questions 
regarding the contract will be referred to the administrator for resolution.  Supplements may be 
written to the contract for the addition or deletion of services.  Payment will be negotiated and 
determined by the contract administrator(s). 
37. 
FORCE MAJEURE.  Failure by either party to perform its duties and obligations will be excused by 
unforeseeable circumstances beyond its reasonable control, including acts of nature, acts of the 
public enemy, riots, fire, explosion, legislation, and governmental regulation.  The party whose 
performance is so affected will within five (5) calendar days of the unforeseeable circumstance 
notify the other party of all pertinent facts and identify the force majeure event.  The party whose 
93 of 268

--- page 94 ---
EXHIBIT C 
MESA STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
Page 31 of 32 
 
performance is so affected must also take all reasonable steps, promptly and diligently, to prevent 
such causes if it is feasible to do so, or to minimize or eliminate the effect thereof.  The delivery or 
performance date will be extended for a period equal to the time lost by reason of delay, plus such 
additional time as may be reasonably necessary to overcome the effect of the delay, provided 
however, under no circumstances will delays caused by a force majeure extend beyond one 
hundred-twenty (120) calendar days from the scheduled delivery or completion date of a task 
unless agreed upon by the parties. 
38. 
COOPERATIVE USE OF CONTRACT.  This contract is available through National IPA to agencies 
nationwide. The City has also entered into various cooperative purchasing agreements with other 
Arizona government agencies, including the Strategic Alliance for Volume Expenditures (SAVE) 
cooperative.  Under the SAVE Cooperative Purchasing Agreement, any contract may be extended 
for use by other municipalities, school districts and government agencies through National IPA or 
SAVE in the State of Arizona with the approval of Contractor.  Any such usage by other entities 
must be in accordance with the statutes, codes, ordinances, charter and/or procurement rules and 
regulations of the respective government agency. 
A contractor, subcontractor or vendor or any employee of a contractor, subcontractor or vendor 
who is contracted to provide services on a regular basis at an individual school shall obtain a valid 
fingerprint clearance card pursuant to title 41, chapter 12, article 3.1. A school district governing 
board shall adopt policies to exempt a person from the requirements of this subsection if the 
person's normal job duties are not likely to result in independent access to or unsupervised contact 
with pupils. A school district, its governing board members, its school council members and its 
employees are exempt from civil liability for the consequences of adoption and implementation of 
policies and procedures pursuant to this subsection unless the school district, its governing board 
members, its school council members or its employees are guilty of gross negligence or intentional 
misconduct. 
 
Additionally, Contractor will comply with the governing body’s fingerprinting policy of each individual 
school district and public entity.  Contractor, subcontractors, vendors and their employees will not 
provide services on school district properties until authorized by the school district.   
 
Orders placed by other agencies and payment thereof will be the sole responsibility of that agency.  
The City is not responsible for any disputes arising out of transactions made by others.  The City is 
not a party to any agreements between the Contractor and National IPA, National IPA and other 
agencies, the Contractor and other agencies, or any third-party contracts in any way related to this 
Agreement or the cooperative use of this Agreement. 
39. 
FUEL CHARGES AND PRICE INCREASES.  No fuel surcharges will be accepted.  No price 
increases will be accepted without proper request by Contractor and response by the City’s 
Purchasing Division.  
40. 
NOTICES.  All notices to be given pursuant to this Agreement must be delivered to the parties at 
their respective addresses.  Notices may be (i) personally delivered; (ii) sent via certified or 
registered mail, postage prepaid; (iii) sent via overnight courier; or (iv) sent via email or facsimile.  
If provided by personal delivery, receipt will be deemed effective upon delivery.  If sent via certified 
or registered mail, receipt will be deemed effective three (3) calendar days after being deposited in 
the United States mail.  If sent via overnight courier, email or facsimile, receipt will be deemed 
effective two (2) calendar days after the sending thereof. 
41. 
GOVERNING LAW, FORUM.  This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Arizona. 
The exclusive forum selected for any proceeding or suit in law or equity arising from or incident to 
this Agreement will be Maricopa County, Arizona. 
42. 
INTEGRATION CLAUSE.  This Agreement, including all attachments and exhibits hereto, 
supersede all prior oral or written agreements, if any, between the parties and constitutes the entire 
agreement between the parties with respect to the work to be performed. 
94 of 268

--- page 95 ---
EXHIBIT C 
MESA STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
 
Page 32 of 32 
 
43. 
PROVISIONS REQUIRED BY LAW.  Any provision required by law to be in this Agreement is a 
part of this Agreement as if fully stated in it. 
44. 
SEVERABILITY.  If any provision of this Agreement is declared void or unenforceable, such 
provision will be severed from this Agreement, which will otherwise remain in full force and effect.  
The parties will negotiate diligently in good faith for such amendment(s) of this Agreement as may 
be necessary to achieve the original intent of this Agreement, notwithstanding such invalidity or 
unenforceability. 
45. 
SURVIVING PROVISIONS.  Notwithstanding any completion, termination, or other expiration of 
this Agreement, all provisions which, by the terms of reasonable interpretation thereof, set forth 
rights and obligations that extend beyond completion, termination, or other expiration of this 
Agreement, will survive and remain in full force and effect.  Except as specifically provided in this 
Agreement, completion, termination, or other expiration of this Agreement will not release any party 
from any liability or obligation arising prior to the date of termination. 
46. 
A.R.S. SECTIONS 1-501 and 1-502.  Pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes Sections 1-501 and 1-
502, any person who applies to the City for a local public benefit (the definition of which includes a 
grant, contract or loan) must demonstrate his or her lawful presence in the United States.  As the 
Agreement is deemed a local public benefit, if Contractor is an individual (natural) person or sole 
proprietorship, Contractor agrees to sign and submit the necessary documentation to prove 
compliance with the statutes as applicable.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
95 of 268

--- page 96 ---
Matt Bauer
9/12/2018
...... 
~~ 
mesa-az 
Contract Title: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS & SERVICES 
Contract Number: 2018011 
Amendment Number: 1 
Description of Change: Amendment to incorporate the below "Federal Certifications" 
document with the Contract. 
Effective Date of Change: 8/7/2018 
Acceptance: On behalf of the undersigned Contractor, I have given careful consideration to this Contract Amendment 
and hereby agree to the change(s) and except that as amended herein, all provisions of the Contract remain in full force 
and effect. 
CDW GOVERNMENT, LLC.: 
Signature 
Christina V. Rother 
Printed Name 
Date 
Signature 
Printed Name 
Date 
City of Mesa: 
Signature 
City Manager Designee 
Date 
96 of 268

--- page 97 ---
FEDERAL CERTIFICATIONS 
ADDENDUM FOR AGREEMENT FUNDED BY U.S. FEDERAL GRANT 
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: 
Participating Agencies may elect to use federal funds to purchase under the Master Agreement. This form should be completed and 
returned. 
The following certifications and provisions may be required and apply when a Participating Agency expends federal funds for any purchase resulting 
from this procurement process. Pursuant to 2 C.F.R. § 200.326, all contracts, including small purchases, awarded by the Participating Agency and 
the Participating Agency's subcontractors shall contain the procurement provisions of Appendix II to Part 200, as applicable. 
APPENDIX II TO 2 CFR PART 200 
(A) Contracts for more than the simplified acquisition threshold currently set at $150,000, which is the inflation adjusted amount determined 
by the Civilian Agency Acquisition Council and the Defense Acquisition Regulations Council (Councils) as authorized by 41 U.S.C. 1908, 
must address administrative, contractual, or legal remedies in instances where contractors violate or breach contract terms, and provide 
for such sanctions and penalties as appropriate. 
Pursuant to Federal Rule (A) above, when a Participating Agency expends federal funds, the Participating Agency reserves all rights and privileges 
under the applicable laws and regulations with respect to this procurement in the event of breach of contract by either party. 
Does offeror agree? YES 
C>J G....--
Initials of Authorized Representative of offeror 
(B) Termination for cause and for convenience by the grantee or subgrantee including the manner by which it will be effected and the 
basis for settlement. (All contracts in excess of $10,000) 
Pursuant to Federal Rule (8) above, when a Participating Agency expends federal funds, the Participating Agency reserves the right to immediately 
terminate any agreement in excess of $10,000 resulting from this procurement process in the event of a breach or default of the agreement by 
Offeror in the event Offeror fails to: (1) meet schedules, deadlines, and/or delivery dates within the time specified in the procurement solicitation, 
contract, and/or a purchase order; (2) make any payments owed; or (3) otherwise perform in accordance with the contract and/or the procurement 
solicitation. Participating Agency also reserves the right to terminate the contract immediately, with written notice to offeror, for convenience, if 
Participating Agency believes, in its sole discretion that it is in the best interest of Participating Agency to do so. Offeror will be compensated for 
work performed and accepted and goods accepted by Participating Agency as of the termination date if the contract is terminated for convenience of 
Participating Agency. Any award under this procurement process is not exclusive and Participating Agency 
reserves the right to purchase goods and services from other offerors when it is in Participating Agency's best interest. 
Does offeror agree? 
YES 
Q ':-iCT==: 
Initials of Authorized Representative of offeror 
(C) Equal Employment Opportunity. Except as otherwise provided under 41 CFR Part 60, all contracts that meet the definition of "federally 
assisted construction contract" in 41 CFR Part 60-1.3 must include the equal opportunity clause provided under 41 CFR 60-1.4(b), in 
accordance with Executive Order 11246, "Equal Employment Opportunity" (30 C FR 12319, 12935, 3 CFR Part, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 339), 
as amended by Executive Order 11375, "Amending Executive Order 11246 Relating to Equal Employment Opportunity," and implementing 
regulations at 41 CFR part 60, "Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor." 
Pursuant to Federal Rule (C) above, when a Participating Agency expends federal funds on any federally assisted construction contract, the equal 
opportunity clause is incorporated by reference herein. 
Does offeror agree to abide by the above? 
YES 
0>-.[ \l=-:-: 
Initials of Authorized Representative of offeror 
(D) Davis-Bacon Act, as amended (40 U.S.C. 3141-3148). When required by Federal program legislation, all prime construction contracts 
in excess of $2,000 awarded by non-Federal entities must include a provision for compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 3141-
3144, and 3146-3148) as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR Part 5, "Labor Standards Provisions Applicable to 
Contracts Covering Federally Financed and Assisted 
Construction"). In accordance with the statute, contractors must be required to pay wages to laborers and mechanics at a rate not less 
than the prevailing wages specified in a wage determination made by the Secretary of Labor. In addition, contractors must be required 
to pay wages not less than once a week. The non-Federal entity must place a copy of the current prevailing wage determination issued 
by the Department of Labor in each solicitation. The decision to award a contract or subcontract must be conditioned upon the 
acceptance of the wage determination. The non- Federal entity must report all suspected or reported violations to the Federal awarding 
agency. The contracts must also include a provision for compliance with the Copeland "Anti-Kickback" Act (40 U.S.C. 3145), as 
97 of 268

--- page 98 ---
CONTRACT AMENDMENT 
supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR Part 3, "Contractors and Subcontractors on Public Building or Public Work 
Financed in Whole or in Part by Loans or Grants from the United States"). The Act provides that each contractor or subrecipient must be 
prohibited from inducing, by any means, any person employed in the construction, completion, or repair of public work, to give up any 
part of the compensation to which he or she is otherwise entitled. The non-Federal entity must report all suspected or reported violations 
to the Federal awarding agency. 
Pursuant to Federal Rule (D) above, when a Participating Agency expends federal funds during the term of an award for all contracts and subgrants 
for construction or repair, offerer will be in compliance with all applicable Davis-Bacon Act provisions. 
Does offerer agree? YES ____ 
Q_,.__.<'-\l,._,.\L---::.=--- ----
-
-
-
-
-lnitials of Authorized Representative of offerer 
(E) Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act (40 U.S.C. 3701-3708). Where applicable, all contracts awarded by the non-Federal 
entity in excess of $100,000 that involve the employment of mechanics or laborers must include a provision for compliance with 40 
U.S.C. 3702 and 3704, as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR Part 5). Under 40 U.S.C. 3702 of the Act, each 
contractor must be required to compute the wages of every mechanic and laborer on the basis of a standard work week of 40 hours. Work 
in excess of the standard work week is permissible provided that the worker is compensated at a rate of not less than one and a half 
times the basic rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 40 hours in the work week. The requirements of 40 U.S.C. 3704 are 
applicable to construction work and provide that no laborer or mechanic must be required to work in surroundings or under working 
conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous or dangerous. These requirements do not apply to the purchases of supplies or materials or 
articles ordinarily available on the open market, or contracts for transportation or transmission of intelligence. 
Pursuant to Federal Rule (E) above, when a Participating Agency expends federal funds, offerer certifies that offerer will be in compliance with all 
applicable provisions of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act during the term of an award for all contracts by Participating Agency 
resulting from this procurement process. 
Does offerer agree? YES 
Q>J \l---
Initials of Authorized Representative of offerer 
(F) Rights to Inventions Made Under a Contract or Agreement. If the Federal award meets the definition of "funding agreement" under 
37 CFR §401.2 (a) and the recipient or subrecipient wishes to enter into a contract with a small business firm or nonprofit organization 
regarding the substitution of parties, assignment or performance of experimental, developmental, or research work under that "funding 
agreement," the recipient or subrecipient must comply with the requirements of 37 CFR Part 401, "Rights to Inventions Made by 
Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative Agreements," and any 
implementing regulations issued by the awarding agency. 
Pursuant to Federal Rule (F) above, when federal funds are expended by Participating Agency, the offerer certifies that during the term of an award 
for all contracts by Participating Agency resulting from this procurement process, the offerer agrees to comply with all applicable requirements as 
referenced in Federal Rule (F) above. 
Does offerer agree? YES _ _ _ _ _ c""'""'-~-""""(L, 
______ _ _ _ _ lnitials of Authorized Representative of offerer 
(G) Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.) and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 -1387), as amended-Contracts and 
subgrants of amounts in excess of $150,000 must contain a provision that requires the non- Federal award to agree to comply with all 
applicable standards, orders or regulations issued pursuant to the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q) and the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act as amended (33 U.S.C. 1251 · 1387). Violations must be reported to the Federal awarding agency and the Regional Office 
of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
Pursuant to Federal Rule (G) above, when federal funds are expended by Participating Agency, the offerer certifies that during the term of an award 
for all contracts by Participating Agency member resulting from this procurement process, the offerer agrees to comply with all applicable 
requirements as referenced in Federal Rule (G) above. 
Does offerer agree? YES 
C>.f ~ 
Initials of Authorized Representative of offerer 
(H) Debarment and Suspension (Executive Orders 12549 and 12689)-A contract award (see 2 CFR 180.220) must not be made to parties 
listed on the government wide exclusions in the System for Award Management (SAM), in accordance with the 0MB guidelines at 2 CFR 
180 that implement Executive Orders 12549 (3 CFR part 1986 Comp., p. 189) and 12689 (3 CFR part 1989 Comp., p. 235), "Debarment 
and Suspension." SAM Exclusions contains the names of parties debarred, suspended, or otherwise excluded by agencies, as well as 
parties declared ineligible under statutory or regulatory authority other than Executive Order 12549. 
Pursuant to Federal Rule (H) above, when federal funds are expended by Participating Agency, the offerer certifies that during the term of an award 
for all contracts by Participating Agency resulting from this procurement process, the offeror certifies that neither it nor its principals is presently 
debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation by any federal department or agency. 
Rev. July 2017 
98 of 268

--- page 99 ---
CONTRACT AMENDMENT 
Does offerer agree? YES _____ 
C_AJ 
......... _,~___,_,~ ________ lnitials of Authorized Representative of offeror 
(I) Byrd Anti-Lobbying Amendment (31 U.S.C. 1352)-Contractors that apply or bid for an award exceeding $100,000 must file the 
required certification. Each tier certifies to the tier above that it will not and has not used Federal appropriated funds to pay any person 
or organization for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a member of Congress, officer or employee 
of Congress, or an employee of a member of Congress in connection with obtaining any Federal contract, grant or any other award 
covered by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Each tier must also disclose any lobbying with non-Federal funds that takes place in connection with obtaining 
any Federal award. Such disclosures are forwarded from tier to tier up to the non-Federal award. 
Pursuant to Federal Rule (I) above, when federal funds are expended by Participating Agency, the offerer certifies that during the term and after 
the awarded term of an award for all contracts by Participating Agency resulting from this procurement process, the offeror certifies that it is in 
compliance with all applicable provisions of the Byrd Anti-Lobbying Amendment (31 U.S.C. 1352). The undersigned further certifies that: 
(1) 
No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid for on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to 
influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of congress, or an employee of a Member of 
Congress in connection with the awarding of a Federal contract, the making of a Federal grant, the making of a Federal loan, the entering into a 
cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative 
agreement. 
(2) 
If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to 
influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of congress, or an employee of a Member of 
Congress in connection with this Federal grant or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, "Disclosure 
Form to Report Lobbying", in accordance with its instructions. 
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all covered sub-awards exceeding 
$100,000 in Federal funds at all appropriate tiers and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly. 
Does offerer agree? YES ------'C 
........ J~(L~"---------- ----lnitials of Authorized Representative of offerer 
RECORD RETENTION REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACTS INVOLVING FEDERAL FUNDS 
When federal funds are expended by Participating Agency for any contract resulting from this procurement process, offerer certifies that it will comply 
with the record retention requirements detailed in 2 CFR § 200.333. The offerer further certifies that offeror will retain all records as required by 2 
CFR § 200.333 for a period of three years after grantees or subgrantees submit final expenditure reports or quarterly or annual financial reports, 
as applicable, and all other pending matters are closed. 
Does offeror agree? YES 
C:.>-J C7 < 
Initials of Authorized Representative of offerer 
CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT 
When Participating Agency expends federal funds for any contract resulting from this procurement process, offerer certifies that it will comply with 
the mandatory standards and policies relating to energy efficiency which are contained in the state energy conservation plan issued in compliance 
with the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6321 et seq.; 49 C.F.R. Part 18). 
Does offeror agree? YES 
Q.,.A) D---:: 
Initials of Authorized Representative of offeror 
CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH BUY AMERICA PROVISIONS 
To the extent purchases are made with Federal Highway Administration, Federal Railroad Administration, or Federal Transit Administration 
funds, offerer certifies that its products comply with all applicable provisions of the Buy America Act and agrees to provide such certification or 
applicable waiver with respect to specific products to any Participating Agency upon request. Purchases made in accordance with the Buy 
America Act must still follow the applicable procurement rules calling for free and open competition. 
Does offerer agree? YES ____ 
("'---'-'A}__,,_~~=-----------lnitials of Authorized Representative of offerer 
CERTIFICATION OF ACCESS TO RECORDS - 2 C.F .R. § 200.336 
Offerer agrees that the Inspector General of the Agency or any of their duly authorized representatives shall have access to any books, documents, 
papers and records of offerer that are directly pertinent to offerer's discharge of its obligations under the Contract for the purpose of making audits, 
examinations, excerpts, and transcriptions. The right also includes timely and reasonable access to offerer's personnel for the purpose of interview 
Rev. July 2017 
99 of 268

--- page 100 ---
CONTRACT AMENDMENT 
and discussion relating to such documents. 
Does offerer agree? YES _ _ _ _ G 
___ -&
~ {i---=
L ~-- ---------lnitials of Authorized Representative of offerer 
CERTIFICATION OF APPLICABILITY TO SUBCONTRACTORS 
Offerer agrees that all contracts it awards pursuant to the Contract shall be bound by the foregoing terms and conditions. 
Does offerer agree? YES 
QN (2___ 
Initials of Authorized Representative of offerer 
Offeror agrees to comply with all federal, state, and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances, as applicable. It is further 
acknowledged that offeror certifies compliance with all provisions, laws, acts, regulations, etc. as specifically noted above. 
Offerer's Name: _ _ C=D:C...W'--'--'G--=o-'-ve=r=nm"'"'"e"'"n=t-=L=LC=-----------------
-
- ----
- --
Address, City, State, and Zip Code: 230 N. Milwaukee Ave Vernon Hills IL 60061-9740 
Phone Number: 
866.339.9816 
Fax Number: ___ _ __________ _ 
Printed Name and Title of Authorized Representative:_=Christina
=· 
=· =V~·=Roth=er=-------------- ----
Email Address: 
i::.:PSe.i::D.;:;:@""cc::.dw""'g:,..:..c:e::o""'m.,__ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _________ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _____ _ 
Signature of Authorized Representative: ru~ \( ~ 
Date: 
<\-~ ~ \ 1t 
Rev. July 201 7 
100 of 268

--- page 101 ---
CONTRACT AMENDMENT 
Rev. July 2017 
Contract Title: Information Technology Solutions 
Contract Number: 2018011   
MA Number: 19000009 
Amendment Number: Two (2) 
Description of Change:  Contract renewal. Term of contract March 1, 2023 through February 28, 
2025. 
Effective Date of Change:  March 1, 2023 
Acceptance:  On behalf of the undersigned Contractor, I have given careful consideration to this Contract Amendment 
and hereby agree to the change(s) and except that as amended herein, all provisions of the Contract remain in full force 
and effect. 
CDW Government LLC: 
City of Mesa: 
Signature 
Signature 
Printed Name 
City Manager Designee 
______________________________________ 
Date 
Date 
Reviewed by: 
Ted Stallings,  Procurement Officer II 
Robert F. Kirby, President
05/25/2022
101 of 268

--- page 102 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Martin McTaggart
Subject:
FW: Cost of 56 laptops for SMPD
Date:
Friday, December 1, 2023 8:43:05 AM
Attachments:
image001.png
image004.emz
image002.png
 
 
Patrice M. Olds, MMC
City Clerk
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
www.cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
 
From: Laurie Strange <strange@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Sent: Friday, December 1, 2023 8:42 AM
To: Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: FW: Cost of 56 laptops for SMPD
 
From: Doris Nishimoto 
 
Sent: Thursday, November 30, 2023 9:10 PM
To: Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz
Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Richard Hedges <rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob
Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Noel
Nish <bay_dental@yahoo.com>; Ed Barberini <ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: David Canepa <dcanepa@smcgov.org>
Subject: Cost of 56 laptops for SMPD
 
Dear City Council and Manager,
 
RE: Item on upcoming City Agenda:  Laptop purchase for SMPD
 
Is there any way to get this cost down for 56 laptops?  What's going to happen to the
old laptops?  I went to the CDW-G website and found that the Panasonic toughbook
is now on sale, so 56 laptops= $186,613.28.  (Unless there is an upgrade not
mentioned??)
Maybe renegotiate with the vendor to match this current price.
 
Panasonic TOUGHBOOK G2 10.1" Core i5-10310U 16GB RAM 512GB Windows 10
Pro - FZ-G2AZ002KM - 2-in-1 Laptops - CDWG.com
 
 
102 of 268

--- page 103 ---
Panasonic TOUGHBOOK G2 10.1" Core i5-10310U 16GB
RAM 512GB Windows 10 Pr...

Police Vehicle Computer Replacement — Purchase Adopt a Resolution to approve the
use of an alternative purchasing procedure and Master Purchasing Agreement and
Participating Addendum with CDWG for the purchase of 56 Panasonic laptops per the
City’s computer replacement schedule in the amount of $252,996.21and 40 Havis
laptop docking stations in the amount of $27,582.65 for a total amount of
$280,578.86; and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented.

This is a way to balance the City Budget. Thank you.

Doris Nishimoto, D.D.S.

103 of 268


--- page 104 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 26-4662
File ID: 23-8185
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
December 04, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Bermuda Drive Utility Relocation Project – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with St. Francis Electric, LLC for the Bermuda Drive Utility Relocation Project in the amount of 
$167,105; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $25,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute 
the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders as allowed by the contract documents and 
within the amount of the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
In 2008, the City applied for preliminary engineering funds through the Highway Bridge Replacement and Rehabilitation 
Program (HBRRP) to evaluate the condition of the Bermuda Drive Bridge over Borel Creek and address the structural 
deficiencies identified in a bridge inspection report prepared by the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans). In 
2010, Caltrans approved the HBRRP funds and City Council approved a professional services agreement with Biggs Cardosa 
Associates, Inc. (BCA) to perform the preliminary engineering to structurally retrofit the bridge. 
Structural assessments and a detailed seismic analysis done in 2011 and 2012 by BCA recommended a full replacement of 
the bridge rather than a structural retrofit. In 2017, Caltrans provided official approval to proceed with a revised scope of 
work that includes full bridge replacement. On May 21, 2018, City Council approved the award of a professional services 
agreement with BCA for design and environmental documentation services for the Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement 
Project. The design is currently anticipated to be completed during 2024. 
The Bermuda Drive Utility Relocation Project (Project) is a subproject that is part of the larger Bermuda Drive Bridge 
Replacement Project. This Project involves undergrounding high-voltage electrical lines across Bermuda Drive to avoid 
conflict during pile installation during the Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement Project. The Engineer’s Estimate for the 
Project is $250,000. The Project was advertised on October 2, 2023, and a total of five (5) bids were received and opened 
on October 24, 2023. The bids received are listed below in order of increasing bid amount. 
Contractor
Grand Total Bid Amount
St. Francis Electric, LLC
$167,105.00
W.R. Forde Associates, Inc.
$224,815.00
Corcus Construction, Inc.
$260,475.00
MBS Engineering
$284,406.32
PAR Western Line Contractors
Nonresponsive
Staff reviewed the bids and determined that St. Francis Electric, LLC is the lowest responsive, responsible bidder and 
104 of 268

--- page 105 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
recommends it be awarded the construction contract. PAR Western Line Contractors’ bid was deemed nonresponsive as 
the bid amount was missing.
Based on staff’s prior experience, the Project presents a higher risk profile than other typical City construction contracts. 
The Project includes trenching, utility relocation, and coordinated construction tasks with multiple utility companies. The 
requested contingency (15% of the construction contract) will allow staff to mitigate risk due to unanticipated conditions 
that may rise during construction.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Bermuda Drive Bridge Replacement Project (#462250) to award this agreement.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Leo Chow, Acting Senior Engineer
Lchow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7344
Jerred Cayabyab, Assistant Engineer
jcayabyab@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7578
105 of 268

--- page 106 ---
AGREEMENT WITH ST. FRANCIS ELECTRIC, LLC
FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT
FOR
BERMUDA DRIVE UTILITY RELOCATION PROJECT
CITY PROJECT NO. 462250UG
THIS AGREEMENT FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (“Agreement”), made and entered into in the City 
of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a 
municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California, (hereinafter called "City") and ST. 
FRANICS ELECTRIC, LLC, a corporation, with offices at 975 Carden Street, San Leandro, CA 94577 
(hereinafter called "Contractor"), entered into this day of ____________________.  
RECITALS:
(a) City has taken appropriate proceedings to authorize construction of the public work and improvements or 
other matters herein provided, and execution of this Agreement.
(b) A notice was duly published for bids for the contract for the improvement hereinafter described.
(c) After notice duly given, on the date hereof, the City awarded the contract for the construction of the 
improvements hereinafter described to Contractor.
IT IS AGREED, as follows:
1.
Scope of Work. Contractor shall perform the work according to the Contract Book entitled:
BERMUDA DRIVE UTLITY RELOCATION PROJECT
CITY PROJECT NO. 462250UG
2.
Contract Price. City shall pay, and the Contractor shall accept, the sum of one hundred sixty-seven thousand 
one hundred five dollars ($167,105) in full payment for the work set forth above.
Said price is determined by the prices contained in Contractor's bid, and shall be paid as described in the 
Contract Book. In the event work is performed or materials furnished in addition to or a reduction of those set 
forth in Contractor's bid and the specifications herein, such work and materials will be paid for as described 
in the Contract Book.
3.
The Contract Documents. The complete contract consists of the following documents: this Agreement; the 
Notice Inviting Sealed Proposals; the Accepted Proposal; the Contract Book which includes the Special 
Provisions, Revised Standard Specifications dated April 16, 2021, and Contract Drawings, the State of 
California Standard Specifications 2018 Edition, the State of California Department of Transportation 
Standard Plans, 2018 Edition, the Faithful Performance Bond, and the Labor and Material Bond (hereinafter 
referred to as the “contract documents”).
106 of 268

--- page 107 ---
All rights and obligations of City and Contractor are fully set forth and described in the contract documents.  
The contract documents constitute the entire contract between the parties hereto pertaining to the subject 
matter hereof, fully supersede any and all prior understandings, representations, warranties and agreements 
between the parties hereto, or any of them, pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and may be modified only 
by written agreement signed by all of the parties hereto.
All of the above-named documents are complementary and are intended to operate in harmony, so that any 
work called for in one, and not mentioned in the other, or vice versa, is to be executed the same as if mentioned 
in all said documents. In the event of any variation or discrepancy between any portion of this Agreement and 
any portion of the contract documents, this Agreement shall prevail. The precedence of the remaining contract 
documents will be as specified in the Contract Book.
4.
Schedule. All work shall be performed in accordance with the schedule provided pursuant to the Contract 
Book.
5.
Performance by Sureties. In the event of any termination as hereinbefore provided, City shall immediately give 
written notice thereof to Contractor and Contractor's sureties, and the sureties shall have the right to take over 
and perform the Agreement, provided, however, that if the sureties, within 5 days after giving them said notice of 
termination, do not give City written notice of their intention to take over the performance thereof within 5 days 
after notice to City of such election, City may take over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by 
contract or by any other method it may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and 
the sureties shall be liable to City for any excess cost or damages occasioned City thereby; and, in such event, 
City may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing the work, such materials, 
appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as may be on the site of the work and necessary 
therefor.
6.
Legal Work Day - Penalties for Violation. Eight hours of labor shall constitute a legal day's work. Contractor 
shall not require more than 8 hours labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar week from any person 
employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such excess work is compensated for at not 
less than 1-1/2 times the basic rate of pay. Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to City the sum of $25.00 for 
each laborer, workman or mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any 
subcontractor for each calendar day during which such laborer, workman or mechanic is required or 
permitted to labor more than 8 hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in any one calendar week in violation 
of the provisions of Sections 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of the Labor Code of the State of California.
7.
Prevailing Wage Scale. The prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations of the 
State of California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all craftsmen and 
laborers working on this project. Contractor shall also require any subcontractors who work or provide any 
services related to the project to pay all persons performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or 
other arrangement at least the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective 
crafts and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work. A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site. It is understood that it is the responsibility of Contractor to determine 
the correct scale. Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at the City Clerk's office, however, errors or 
defects in the materials in the City Clerk's office will not excuse a bidder's failure to comply with the actual scale 
then in force. Contractor must submit certified payrolls to the Department of Industrial Relations in accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1776.
Contractor agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code Chapter 
5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator.
8.
Senate Bill 854 Compliance Required.  In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, all 
contractors and subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations. In 
accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4 the contractor must post job site notices as required by 
107 of 268

--- page 108 ---
regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of 
Industrial Relations.
9.
Insurance. The Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and five years thereafter 
the insurance as specified in Exhibit A of this agreement.
10.
Indemnity. Contractor agrees to hold harmless and indemnify City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising out of 
Contractor’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of City’s sole negligence or 
willful misconduct.  Contractor agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents 
against any such claims. The Contractor’s duty to indemnify shall survive expiration or early termination of this 
Agreement.
11.
Attorney Fees. Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.  The 
above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or 
otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this provision 
that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or 
actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
12.
Mediation. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation. The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request. The mediator shall be agreed to by 
the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one name from mediators 
listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, 
or other agreed-upon service. The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties. Neither party shall be deemed the prevailing party. 
No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith 
attempt to reach a mediated settlement. The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the 
mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum 
time is extended by the parties.
13.
Provisions Cumulative. The provisions of this agreement are cumulative, and in addition to and not in 
limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to City.
14.
Notices. All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person or transmitted by certified mail, postage 
prepaid. 
a.
Notices required to be given to City shall be addressed as follows:
Director of Public Works
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Notices required to be given to Contractor shall be addressed as appears in the signature block as 
shown on the Bidder's Statement.
15.
Interpretation. As used herein any gender includes each other gender, the singular includes the plural and 
vice versa.
108 of 268

--- page 109 ---
16.
Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, the contract documents, and the performance hereon shall be 
governed, interpreted, construed, and regulated by the laws of the State of California. The parties agree that 
any action related to this Agreement or the contract documents will be venued in the County of San Mateo.
17.
Headings. The title and headings of the various sections of this Agreement and the contract documents are 
intended solely for convenience of reference and are not intended to explain, modify, or place any 
construction on any provisions.
18.
No Partnership or Agency. Nothing in this Agreement nor the contract documents shall be deemed to 
constitute a partnership in law between City and Contractor, or any sub-contractor, to constitute either party 
as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or bind the other in any manner 
unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.
19.
Severability. If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be valid as to its other 
provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be concluded from the circumstances 
that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and void, the parties would not have entered into the 
contract documents. The parties shall use all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts 
found to be null and void with provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their 
original intention.
20.
Waiver. None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, or of any 
power herein reserved by the City, or any right to damages herein provided: 1) inspection by the City or its 
authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance 
of the whole or any part of the work by the City; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the City or its 
authorized agents or representatives.
21.
Warranty. Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be at least of the 
quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract documents, and, if no quality is 
specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in 
facilities of similar size and complexity, that the work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the 
work will conform to the requirements of the contract documents.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
109 of 268

--- page 110 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and ST. FRANCIS ELECTRIC, LLC have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Brad B. Underwood
Interim Public Works Director
Date
Guy Smith
Its Authorized Agent
President
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President 
plus an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
Date
<Insert Name> 
<Insert Title>
Date
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Attachments:
Exhibit A:
Insurance Requirements
110 of 268

--- page 111 ---
Exhibit A 
Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five years thereafter, insurance 
against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the 
performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors. 
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1.
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering CGL 
on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property damage, bodily injury 
and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence. If a general 
aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location 
(ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.  
2.
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), with 
limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3.
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or 
disease. 
4.
Surety Bonds as described below.
5.
Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.
If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City 
requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained by the contractor. Any 
available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be 
available to the City.
Self-Insured Retentions 
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At the option of the City, either: the 
contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its 
officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; or the Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to 
the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. 
The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be satisfied by 
either the named insured or City.
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
1.
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on 
behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor. 
General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance 
(at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 
38; and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used).
2.
For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, officials, 
employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its officers, 
officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not 
contribute with it. 
111 of 268

--- page 112 ---
3.
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
with notice to the City.
Claims Made Policies – (If at all possible avoid and require occurrence type CGL policies)
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form: 
1.
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date of the contract or 
the beginning of contract work.
2.
Insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least five years after 
completion of contract work. 
3.
If coverage is canceled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form with a 
retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, the Contractor must purchase 
extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of five years after completion of contract work. 
4.
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review. 
5.
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution 
Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos exclusions. If the services involve mold 
identification/remediation, the Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, 
and the definition of Pollution shall include microbial matter, including mold. 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. Best rating 
of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor may acquire 
from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be 
necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a 
waiver of subrogation in favor of the City for all work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and 
subcontractors. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required amendatory 
endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause) and a copy 
of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work 
begins. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the 
Contractor’s obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, at any time.    
Subcontractors 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all the requirements stated 
herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on insurance required from subcontractors. 
For CGL coverage subcontractors shall provide coverage with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13.
Surety Bonds 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds:
1.
Bid bond
2.
Performance bond
3.
Payment bond
4.
Maintenance bond
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. If the Performance 
Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is not necessary.  If the warranty period 
specified in the contract is for longer than one year a Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is 
required.  Bonds shall be duly executed by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the 
State of California and secured through an authorized agent with an office in California.
112 of 268

--- page 113 ---
Special Risks or Circumstances
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior 
experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances
113 of 268

--- page 114 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5112
File ID: 23-8189
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
December 04, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Staffing of Police Officers at College of San Mateo Football Games – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with the San Mateo County Community College District to staff Police Officers at the College of San 
Mateo home football games and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The College of San Mateo hosts numerous football games on their campus throughout their college football season, and it 
has been past practice for the San Mateo Police Department to staff officers at these games as part of the overall security 
component.  The San Mateo Community College District and the City had previously adopted an agreement outlining this 
relationship from 2018-2023; however, the agreement recently expired. Both the SMCCD and the Police Department wish 
to adopt an updated service agreement to continue this partnership, and the proposed agreement outlines the service 
details. The agreement in no way commits the Police Department to having to staff an officer if unable to do so for a 
variety of reasons.
The terms of the agreement run through June 30, 2026, with an option for the agreement to be extended for two 
additional years. The District will reimburse the City for the cost of officers, and the cost will increase annually, 
commensurate with the rates charged by the City’s comprehensive annual fee schedule. It is the City’s policy that City 
Council approve inter-governmental agency agreements.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
The annual revenue generated by this agreement is expected to be negligible, with no negative budgetary impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
114 of 268

--- page 115 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Matt Lethin, Captain
mlethin@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7663
115 of 268

--- page 116 ---
Location: ____________________________________ 
Agreement No. __________________ 
Standard Services Agreement – Modified 10/18/23 
Page 1 of 8 
3401 CSM Drive, San Mateo, CA 94402 
STANDARD SERVICES AGREEMENT 
WITH 
CONTRACTOR NAME 
This Agreement is entered into by and between the San Mateo County Community College District, a public 
educational agency (hereinafter called “District”) and the City of San Mateo, through the San Mateo Police 
Department, having its principal business address at 200 Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA 94403 (hereinafter 
called "Contractor"). This Agreement shall become effective upon the execution date of this Agreement by both 
Contractor and District, whichever shall later occur (the “Effective Date”). District and Contractor are referred to in this 
Agreement individually as “Party” and collectively as “Parties.” 
WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable that Contractor be engaged by District for the purpose of performing 
services hereinafter described; 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises set forth below, the Parties agree as follows: 
1.
Exhibits and Attachments. The following exhibits and attachments are attached to this Agreement and
incorporated into this Agreement by this reference:
Exhibit A — Scope of Services 
Exhibit B — Data Sharing and Security Standards (if applicable) 
Appendix 1 — Supplemental Terms and Conditions (if applicable) 
2.
Services to be Provided by Contractor. Contractor shall perform the agreed-upon services as defined by the
scope of work, deliverables, and standard of performance identified in Exhibit A, and in accordance with the
terms and conditions in this Agreement. The services listed in this Agreement and in Exhibit A are referred to
as “Services."
3.
Term. The term of this Agreement shall be from August 1st, 2023 through June 30, 2026.
3.1 
Option to Extend. This Agreement may be renewed for additional time periods so long as: (1) the original 
Agreement Term plus the renewal periods does not exceed five years; (2) both Parties execute a 
renewal in writing; and (3) insurance coverage continues pursuant to the requirements in Section 11 of 
this Agreement.  
4.
Payment. In consideration of the services rendered in accordance with all terms and conditions set forth herein
and in Exhibit A, District shall make payment to Contractor in the manner specified in Exhibit A.
5.
Termination. Either party may terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, for its convenience at any time by
written notice to Contractor thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of termination. In the event of termination,
all finished or unfinished documents, data, studies, maps, photographs, reports, and materials (hereafter
referred to as materials) prepared by Contractor under this Agreement shall become the property of the District
and shall be promptly delivered to the District. In the event of termination under this section,  Contractor shall
be paid for all work satisfactorily performed through the date of termination. Such payment shall be that prorated
portion of the full payment determined by comparing the work/services actually completed to the work/services
required by the Agreement.
6.
Relationship of the Parties. It is understood that this is an Agreement by and between independent contractors
and is not intended to, and shall not be construed to, create the relationship of agent, servant, employee,
partnership, joint venture of association, or any other relationship whatsoever other than that of independent
contractor.  Except as District may specify in writing, Contractor shall have no authority, expressed or implied,
to act on behalf of District in any capacity whatsoever. Contractor shall have no authority, expressed or implied,
pursuant to this Agreement to bind District to any obligation whatsoever.
College of San Mateo
1179917
116 of 268

--- page 117 ---
Standard Services Agreement – Modified 10/18/23 
Page 2 of 8 
 
7. 
Time of Performance. Time is of the essence and Contractor shall perform the services required by this 
Agreement in an expeditious and timely manner so as not to unreasonably delay the purpose of this Agreement. 
8. 
Non-Discrimination. Contractor and District mutually agree that they will comply with all applicable Federal 
and California state anti-discrimination laws and regulations and agree not to unlawfully discriminate against 
any person, on the basis of race, color, age, ancestry, national origin, sex, religious creed, marital status, or 
physical or mental disability, or sexual orientation or any other category protected by law, including but not 
limited to, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, and any other Federal or State laws and regulations 
related to Equal Employment Opportunity. Contractor's personnel policies shall be made available to District 
upon request. In addition, Contractor agrees to require like compliance by all hired subcontractors. 
9. 
Ownership of Property. – Intentionally Omitted. 
 
10. 
Licenses, Patents, Permits. Prior to commencement of work/services to be performed under this Agreement, 
Contractor shall apply for, obtain and maintain in current status, at his/her own expense, any license, permit or 
approval required from any agency for the performance of said work/services, or forfeit any right to 
compensation under this Agreement. 
 
11. 
Insurance. Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the Agreement insurance against claims 
for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with the performance of 
the work hereunder and the results of that work by the Contractor, its agents, representatives, employees or 
subcontractors.  
11.1 
Minimum Scope and Limit of Insurance. Coverage shall be at least as broad as the amount(s) specified 
below: 
a. 
Commercial General Liability in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 
general aggregate for personal injury, bodily injury, death, other injury, and property damage. 
b. 
☒ Automobile Liability in an amount not less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and 
property damage applicable to all owned, non-owned and hired vehicles.  
            (to be checked if motor vehicle used in performing services) 
c. 
Workers' Compensation as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and Employer’s 
Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease.  
d. 
Umbrella Liability in an amount not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence and general aggregate. 
e. 
☐ Professional liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the Contractor’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate.  
           (to be checked if the work or a portion of the work is expected to involve the use of professional knowledge) 
 
If the Contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the District requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained.  Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified 
minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the District. 
 
11.2 
Other Insurance Provisions. The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the 
following provisions: 
a. Additional Insured Status. Contractor shall name District and its Board of Trustees, officers, 
employees, and agents as Additional Insured under its Commercial General Liability policy. 
b. Primary Coverage. Contractor’s insurance shall be primary to any insurance or self-insurance 
maintained by the District. 
c. Acceptability of Insurers. Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business 
in the state with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A(-)X, unless otherwise acceptable to 
the District. 
d. Certificates of Insurance and Endorsements. Contractor shall furnish the District with original 
certificates of insurance and amendatory endorsements effecting coverages required by this 
117 of 268

--- page 118 ---
Standard Services Agreement – Modified 10/18/23 
Page 3 of 8 
Agreement and indicating a thirty (30) day cancellation notice or notice of reduction in coverage prior 
to the commencement of any work. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the 
work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them. Contractor shall be 
responsible for all damages to persons or properties that occur as a result of Contractor's or 
Contractor's employees fault or negligence in connection with the performance of this Agreement. 
 
12. 
Indemnification.  
12.1 
Contractor shall indemnify and save harmless the District and its officers, agents, employees, and 
servants from all claims, suits, or actions of every name, kind, and description resulting from this 
Agreement, the performance of any work or services required of Contractor under this Agreement, or 
payments made pursuant to this Agreement brought for, or on account of, any of the following:  (a) 
injuries to or death of any person, including the Contractor’s employees/officers/agents; (b) damage to 
any property of any kind whatsoever and to whomever belonging; (c) any sanctions, penalties, or claims 
of damages resulting from Contractor’s failure to comply, if applicable, with the requirements set forth in 
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and all Federal regulations 
promulgated thereunder, as amended; or (d) any other loss or cost, including but not limited to that 
caused by the concurrent active or passive negligence of the District and/or its officers, agents, or 
servants. However, Contractor’s duty to indemnify and save harmless under this Section shall not apply 
to injuries or damage for which the District has been found in a court of competent jurisdiction to be 
solely liable by reason of its own negligence or willful misconduct. 
 
12.2 
The duty of Contractor to indemnify and hold harmless, as set forth herein, shall include the duty to 
defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the California Civil Code. 
 
12.3 
The obligations set forth in this Section shall continue beyond the term of this Agreement as to any act 
or omission that occurred during or under this Agreement. 
 
12.4 
The indemnification and hold harmless agreement set forth above includes, but is not limited to, 
Contractor’s agreement at its sole expense to indemnify District, its officers, agents and employees from 
and defend or settle any claim or action brought against District to the extent that it is based on a claim 
that any services furnished hereunder infringed a patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, trade 
secret, or other legally protected intellectual property rights. Contractor shall pay all costs, fees (including 
attorneys' fees) and damages which may be incurred by District, its officers, agents and employees for 
any such claim or action or settlement thereof. 
 
13. 
Accessibility. Contractor hereby warrants that the products and services to be provided under this Agreement 
comply with the accessibility requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 
U.S.C. 794d) and its implementing regulations set forth in Title 36, Code of Federal Regulations, part 1194. 
Contractor agrees to promptly respond to and resolve any complaint regarding accessibility of its products and 
services which is brought to Contractor's attention. Contractor further agrees to indemnify and hold harmless 
the San Mateo County Community College District, its governing board, officers, employees and agents, the 
California Community Colleges Chancellor's Office, and any California community college using Contractor's 
products and services from any claim arising out of Contractor's failure to comply with the aforesaid 
requirements. Failure to comply with the aforesaid requirements shall constitute a breach and shall be cause 
for termination of this Agreement. 
14. 
Assignability. Contractor shall not assign this Agreement or any portion thereof to a third party without the prior 
written consent of District, and any attempted assignment without such prior written consent in violation of this 
paragraph 14 is null and void and shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement by Contractor. In the 
event of any assignment, Contractor shall remain liable to District as principal for the performance of all 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
15. 
Failure to Perform. If, at any time, in the opinion of District, Contractor fails to render services of proper quality 
or has failed to perform, keep, and observe any of the terms or conditions herein contained on the part of 
Contractor to be performed, kept, and observed, District may give Contractor written notice to correct such 
conditions or cure such default; and if any such condition or default shall continue for ten (10) days after said 
118 of 268

--- page 119 ---
Standard Services Agreement – Modified 10/18/23 
Page 4 of 8 
written notice, then, and in that event, this Agreement shall cease and expire.  Thereupon District or its duly 
authorized representative may employ other parties or carry this Agreement to completion as District may deem 
proper. 
 
16. 
Force Majeure. Neither party shall be responsible for delays or failure in performance resulting from acts beyond 
the control of such parties. Such acts shall include, but not be limited to, Acts of God, labor disputes, civil 
disruptions, acts of war, pandemics, epidemics, fire, electrical power outages, earthquakes or other natural 
disasters, crisis incidents, major criminal investigation or serious local public safety matters. 
 
17. 
Dispute Resolution. Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, the parties agree to meet in mediation 
and attempt to reach a resolution with the assistance of a mutually agreed upon mediator. The mediation 
process shall provide for the selection, within fifteen (15) days of either party notifying the other of the existence 
of a dispute, by both parties of a disinterested third person as mediator and shall be concluded within forty-five 
(45) days from the commencement of the mediation unless a time requirement is extended by stipulation of both 
parties. If a mediated settlement is reached, neither party shall be the prevailing party for the purposes of the 
mediated settlement. Each party agrees to bear an equal quota of the expenses of the mediator. A party that 
refuses to participate in mediation or refuses to participate in the selection of a mediator cannot file a legal 
action.  The non-refusing party shall be permitted to file a legal action immediately upon the other party’s refusal 
to participate in mediation or the selection of a mediator. 
 
18. 
Waivers. No waiver by District of Contractor’s default of any terms or conditions hereof to be performed, kept, 
or observed by Contractor shall be construed to be or act as a waiver of any subsequent default of any of the 
terms and conditions herein contained. 
 
19. 
Notices. All notices to be given between the parties hereto shall be in writing and may be served by commercial 
express/overnight courier service or by depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid and 
certified receipt requested and addressed as follows: 
 
For District: 
San Mateo County Community College District 
Office of the Executive Vice Chancellor of Administrative Services 
3401 CSM Drive 
San Mateo, CA  94402 
 
For Contractor: 
San Mateo Police Department 
Matt Lethin, Captain/Field Operations Division 
200 Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, CA  94403 
Either party by written notice to the other party may change the address of the notice or the names of the persons 
or parties to receive written notices. 
 
20. 
Expenditure of Public Funds. Contractor agrees to comply with Government Code Section 8546.7 which 
provides that any agreement involving expenditure of public funds in excess of $10,000 shall be subject to the 
examination and audit by the Auditor General for a period of three (3) years after final payment under the 
agreement. 
 
21. 
Public Record.  All agreements become the property of the District and as such become public documents 
available to be reviewed by the public upon request. Government Code Sections 6250 et. seq., the Public 
Records Act, define a public record as any writing containing information relating to the conduct of public 
business. “Writing” means any handwriting, typewriting, printing, photostating, photographing, photocopying, 
transmitting by electronic mail or facsimile, and every other means of recording upon any tangible thing any 
form of communication or representation, including letters, words, pictures, sounds, or symbols, or combinations 
thereof, and any record thereby created, regardless of the manner in which the record has been stored.  Any 
agreement may be published and made available to the public as part of the Board of Trustees approval 
process.  
22. 
Protection of Confidential Information. - Intentionally Omitted.  
119 of 268

--- page 120 ---
Standard Services Agreement – Modified 10/18/23 
Page 5 of 8 
23.
Severability. Should any part of this Agreement be declared through a final decision by a court or tribunal of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional, invalid, or beyond the authority of either party to enter into or to
carry out, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this Agreement, which shall continue in
full force and effect, provided that the remainder of this Agreement, absent the unexercised portion, can be
interpreted reasonably to give effect to the intentions of the parties.
24.
Amendments. This Agreement may be amended only by written instrument signed by both District and
Contractor which writing shall state expressly that it is intended by the parties to amend the terms and conditions
of this Agreement.
25.
Governing Law and Venue. This Agreement, including all exhibits attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference, shall be construed in and governed by the laws of the State of California.  The parties consent to the
exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the Superior Court of San Mateo County, California.
26.
Captions. Any captions to or headings of the articles, sections, subsections, paragraphs, or subparagraphs of
this Agreement are solely for the convenience of the parties, are not a part of this Agreement, and shall not be
used for the interpretation or determination of validity of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
27.
Contrary Tax Positions. - Intentionally Omitted.
28.
Counterparts and Electronic Signatures. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be deemed an original, but all which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Both
District and Contractor wish to permit this Agreement and future documents relating to this Agreement to be
digitally signed in accordance with California Law. Any party to this Agreement may revoke such agreement to
permit electronic signatures at any time in relation to all future documents by providing written notice pursuant
to this Agreement.
29.
Entire Agreement.  This Agreement, including all exhibits attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference, constitutes the sole agreement of the parties hereto and correctly states the rights, duties and
obligations of each party.  Any prior agreement, promises, negotiations, or representations between the parties
not expressly stated in this document are of no force or effect. In the event of a conflict between the terms and
conditions set forth herein and those in the exhibits attached hereto, the terms and conditions set forth herein
shall prevail.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the respective parties have executed this Agreement on the dates indicated below. 
CONTRACTOR 
SAN MATEO COUNTY COMMUNITY 
COLLEGE DISTRICT 
Signature 
Signature  
Yanely Pulido, Director of General Services 
Name/Title of Authorized Signatory 
District Authorized Signatory 
Date 
Employer Identification Number:  
Date 
Federal Tax Payer Identification Number 
(EIN): _________________________
94-3084147
120 of 268

--- page 121 ---
Standard Services Agreement – Modified 10/18/23 
Page 6 of 8 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
1.
Description of Services to be Performed and work product to be delivered to District by Contractor:
(reference and attach additional pages, if necessary)
Provide SMPD post-certified police officers to provide police services to CSM home football games, with payment
rates subject to potential adjustment on an annual basis to correspond to the Outside Detail Rates for police
services as adopted in the City of San Mateo’s Comprehensive Annual Salary Schedule.
2.
Roles and Responsibilities:
Contractor agrees to:
Provide SMPD post-certified police officers to provide police services to CSM home football games
District agrees to: 
Provide payment in timely manner. 
3.
Main Point of Contact:
Contractor
District/College: College of San Mateo 
Name: Matt Lethin 
Name: Jacqueline Pigozzi 
Title: Captain, Field Operations Division 
Title: Assistant Athletic Director    
Phone: 650-522-7663 
Phone: 650-574-6420    
Email Address: mlethin@cityofsanmateo.org 
Email Address: pigozzij@smccd.edu 
4.
Amount and Method of Payment:
☐Single payment, upon successful completion of services/deliverables.
☒Multiple payments. Explain how payments will be made (i.e., milestone payments, monthly payments etc.).
Payment will be made when invoices are sent from the vendor for each game worked. 
In any event, the total amount paid under this Agreement shall not exceed $5,000 annually. 
Services shall be billed to “San Mateo County Community College District” and become payable after satisfactory 
completion of services and upon presentation of detailed invoice(s) specifying services being provided. All invoices 
must be reviewed and approved by assigned District/College Main Point of Contact prior to payment being made to 
Contractor. Contractor shall send invoices immediately upon performance of work with original receipts (if 
applicable), to: SMCCCD Accounts Payable Office, 3401 CSM Drive, San Mateo, CA  94402.
121 of 268

--- page 122 ---
Standard Services Agreement – Modified 10/18/23 
Page 7 of 8 
APPENDIX 1 
SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
1.
Compliance With Prevailing Wage and DIR Registration.  Sections 1.1 or(and) 1.2 applicable only if the box(es)
is(are) checked.
☐1.1   Employee / Prevailing Wages; Records; Apprentices.  Pursuant to California Labor Codes 1771, 1774, and
1775, this Work is subject to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial 
Relations. Contractor shall post job site notices as prescribed by regulation. Contractor and all 
subcontractors shall pay prevailing wages to its employees on any Agreement in excess of $1,000.00. 
Copies of the prevailing rate of per diem wages are on file at Owner’s principal office.  Contractor shall 
comply with the 8-hours per day/40 hours per week/overtime/working hours restrictions for all employees, 
pursuant to the California Labor Codes 1813 and 1815. Contractor and all subcontractors shall keep and 
maintain accurate employee payroll records for Work performed.  The payroll records shall be certified and 
submitted as required by law, including Labor Code Section 1771.4 and 1776, including (if this Agreement 
is awarded on or after April 1, 2015 or continues on or after January 1, 2016) to the Labor Commissioner no 
less frequently than monthly. Contractor shall comply fully with Labor Code Section 1777.5 in the hiring of 
apprentices for work relating to this Agreement.  If any Order exceeds $2,000 and is funded with federal 
funds, then Contractor shall pay federal Davis Bacon wages and comply with applicable federal 
requirements. 
☐1.2   Mandatory Contractor and Subcontractor Registration. Pursuant to Labor Code Section 1771.1(a),
Contractor represents that it and all of its Subcontractors are currently registered and qualified to perform 
public work pursuant to Labor Code Section 1725.5. Contractor covenants that any additional or substitute 
Subcontractors will be similarly registered and qualified. 
2.
COVID-19 Safety.
2.1 
Contractor, for itself and its employees, agents and subcontractors, shall ensure that all services performed 
on District facilities under this Agreement comply with applicable federal, State and local requirements 
regarding COVID-19. The Contract Price shall include all such costs of compliance. 
2.2 
Contractor shall have protocols and procedures in place during the term of the Agreement to prevent the 
spread of coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2). Measures implemented shall at a minimum follow applicable legal 
mandates and guidance regarding COVID-19. 
2.3 
Contractor agrees to indemnify and save harmless the District and its officers, agents, employees, and 
servants from all claims, suits, or actions of every name, kind, and description arising from or related to 
Contractor’s obligations under Section 1 (COVID-19 Safety) of this Appendix 1. The duty of Contractor to 
indemnify and save harmless, as set forth herein, shall include the duty to defend as established in Section 
2778 of the California Civil Code. 
3.
Remote Services/Use of Virtual Online Platforms. With District’s written consent, Contractor may provide
services to District remotely, including by means of telephone or internet telephony, or over the internet through the
use of virtual online platforms. Any live event will be broadcast through a private transmission solely sent to invited
participants in the virtual attendance through a secure and password protected online platform. Contractor will work
with District/College’s Point of Contact to set up the remote transmission and to ensure optimal broadcasting quality
and security measures are in place leading up to the live event. Contractor will provide standard equipment including
working computer with camera and computer microphone, reliable high-speed internet, and video capability. Prior
to the event date, District will provide login links with instructions and download links to any required software
programs at no cost to Contractor.
4.
Reimbursable Expenses. Contractor may bill for reimbursable expenses incurred only in connection with the
Scope of Services. Authorized reimbursables shall be billed by Contractor to the District at cost (1.0) times the
expense incurred by the Contractor and subcontractors. Contractor shall submit invoices for expense costs with
Contractor’s invoice for payment. Expenses must be supported with documentation that includes but is not limited
to receipts, invoices, etc., which clearly associate the expense with the Services.
4.1 
“Reimbursable Expenses” mean actual expenses incurred by Contractor or subcontractors, such as
expenses for: transportation and subsistence incidental thereto; toll telephone calls and telegrams, mail and
overnight delivery services; reproduction of reports, drawings, specifications and similar publications related
to the Services.
4.2 
Reimbursable Expenses shall not include Local Travel.
122 of 268

--- page 123 ---
Standard Services Agreement – Modified 10/18/23 
Page 8 of 8 
4.3 
“Local Travel” means travel between Contractor’s offices and San Mateo County, and travel to any location 
within a fifty-mile radius of either Contractor’s office or San Mateo County. 
4.4 
Travel expense beyond Local Travel for travel by automobile shall be reimbursed at the current rate set by 
the U.S. Government, and for travel by other means shall be the actual expense incurred by Contractor. 
5.
Not Used.
123 of 268

--- page 124 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-3159
File ID: 23-7739
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
December 4, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Child Care Facilities Fund Loan for Improvements at 2575 Flores Street – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a Child Care Facilities Fund loan of $430,000 to Mighty Tiger Preschool, LLC for tenant 
improvements at 2575 Flores Street, Suite 1, San Mateo to establish a new child care facility, and authorize the City 
Manager to execute the loan agreement, promissory note, short form deed of trust and agreement containing covenants 
affecting real property and all related documents in such a manner that does not substantially change the loan terms. 
BACKGROUND:
The Child Care Facilities Fund was originally established in 2004 with the Child Care Development Fee to address the 
critical need for more childcare spaces in the City. It took several years to receive sufficient fee revenue to facilitate 
financial assistance for projects that result in an increase in new, licensed, and high-quality childcare spaces. In October 
2018, the City Council approved the Interim Child Care Fund Guidelines and authorized the release of a Notice of Funding 
Available (NOFA) in 2019, making San Mateo the first jurisdiction in the County to offer funds for childcare construction. 
That NOFA resulted in the completion of three childcare projects which created a total of 98 new, licensed childcare 
spaces; with six of those spaces dedicated for infants of low-income families, which helps address a critical childcare need. 
Despite several challenges for each of the borrowers, the three projects completed construction and opened during the 
first two years of the Covid-19 pandemic with limited capacity. The three completed facilities continue to operate and 
have been increasing their attendance as conditions and staffing allow.
The 2019 NOFA experience provided lessons and new ideas. There has been a longtime need for greater amount of 
information and assistance for potential childcare providers who are interested in starting or expanding their businesses. 
With feedback and advocacy from childcare professionals and the lessons learned from the first completed projects, the 
City developed a comprehensive program for creating child care facilities. The first and most important tool is the new 
Child Care Start Up Guide, which is available in both English and Spanish. This publication is available on the City’s website 
(www.cityofsanmateo.org/childcarefacilitiesfund ) and helps identify important definitions, key steps and information 
about local and state requirements, and to navigate the City's permit process. 
The Site Assessment Report is a unique service offered by the City that was created in response to the common questions 
received by potential child care providers and offers the most important information needed when selecting a location for 
a child care facility. This is a service available for anyone who is prepared with some basic information of the location and 
plans for the facility and needs help in determining if a potential property or location is viable. The site assessment is 
conducted by a collaborative of several divisions of the Community Development Department including the childcare 
facilities loan program staff, a plan checker, a building inspector, and a planner; a fire inspector with the San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department; and a representative from the Public Works Engineering team. This is a free and valuable 
opportunity for a cross-department service from City staff, especially for those who may not be as familiar with the various 
124 of 268

--- page 125 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
requirements specific to childcare facilities. It is intended to provide a broad summary of the conditions, requirements, 
and/or recommendations that can help inform the viability of a potential location. Loan applicants are required to 
complete this assessment to use for project planning and budgeting.
For those interested in obtaining financial assistance, the City has a variety of methods. To date, the primary method has 
been secured loans. The funds are legally restricted to capital expenditures only which is limited to construction and 
elements that are fixed in the property. The funds may not be used for operational or programmatic expenditures. These 
loans are available to childcare providers and/or developers to specifically develop, expand, or otherwise enhance 
childcare facilities resulting in new licensed child care spaces. The benefits to the loan option are that the terms include 
zero percent interest, deferred/no payments, and a loan forgiveness schedule based on the amount of money borrowed. 
The loan forgiveness is contingent upon consistently meeting the annual performance requirements.
The City completed a comprehensive fee study in 2021 that included updates for applicability and increase of the Child 
Care Development Fee and adopted Municipal Code Chapter 23.65 Child Care Development Fee. The City Council revised 
the Interim Child Care Fund Guidelines in August 2022 to include the revised fee, new ordinance, additional information 
about the loan terms, and program processes. Upon approval of the interim guidelines, the Child Care Facility Fund (CCFF) 
program was initiated and was made available to applicants on a first-come first-serve basis with a priority for requests 
from projects that are the most “shovel ready”. The Child Care Development Fee that was adopted for FY 2023-2024 is 
$4,677.29 for a new single-family residential unit and $3,373.46 for a new multi-family unit.  For new commercial 
development, which includes retail, office, industrial and hotels, the fee ranges from $0.14 to $0.67 per square-foot of new 
floor area.
DISCUSSION:
On April 12, 2023, Geoffrey Choy and Ruth H. Choy were the first applicants for the new CCFF program who inquired about 
obtaining a loan. Ms. Choy is an elementary teacher and operated a licensed small family childcare business in Belmont. 
That business expanded to the current large family childcare business, which is currently running at full capacity. They 
have identified a new location at 2575 Flores Street in San Mateo to expand their business to create a new childcare 
center.  They are in the process of obtaining a Child Care Center License and will transfer their existing Large Family Child 
Care Home license to the child care center license.  Mr. Choy has a business background in small business lending and 
many years of project management with the federal government, the nonprofit sector, and the tech sector. 
Prior to their inquiry, Mr. Choy had already reviewed the CCFF program materials and submitted his request for the Site 
Assessment Report with his inquiry. The assessment was completed onsite on May 4, 2023, including Mr. Choy, City staff, 
and Mr. Choy’s selected architect for his project. The report outcome supported the determination that the proposed 
location is viable, concurrent with the plans of the applicants.  With a viable location confirmed, the next step was for the 
applicants to complete and submit the loan application, which was submitted on May 30, 2023.
Staff reviewed the initial application and provided follow up questions, along with recommended adjustments to the 
requested budget. Mr. Choy provided adequate responses that supported a complete application. Upon determination of 
a complete application, the staff committee of the Interim Department Director, Housing Manager, and Sr. Management 
Analyst assessed the application. The committee had some clarifying questions regarding the project completion timeline 
and received the subsequent satisfactory responses. 
With the determination of the loan application as viable, the committee recommends City Council approval of the 
$430,000 loan to Mighty Tiger Preschool, LLC, resulting in 48 new licensed childcare spaces per the Resolution in 
Attachment 1. This loan and tenant improvements are comparable to one of the earlier project loans provided by the CCFF 
program, which was for $464,000. The borrowers will be required to enforce prevailing wage requirements in accordance 
with California law, and the loan forgiveness period will be 10 years. The documents to process the loan are included as 
Exhibit 1. Property owner CBR Flores LLC has reviewed the loan and understands that the agreement is effective upon the 
executing signature of the City. The termination of the loan agreement will occur on the earlier of: (1) the borrower 
satisfying the Program Requirements for ten (10) years during the Term, in which case the entire Loan amount shall be 
forgiven; (2) the full repayment of the loan; or (3) thirty (30) years after the effective date.
125 of 268

--- page 126 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Child Care Facility Fund currently has approximately $1,300,000 allocated funds available for projects, sufficient to 
fund the $430,000 loan.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The loan agreement and related childcare facility improvements are categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing 
facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of 
existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no 
expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Exhibit 1 – Loan Agreement
Exhibit 2 – Promissory Note
Exhibit 3 – Short Form Deed of Trust
Exhibit 4 – City Use Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia, Housing Manager
emurillogarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
126 of 268

--- page 127 ---
1 
660\01\2564992.4 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023) 
 
APPROVING A CHILD CARE FACILITIES FUND LOAN OF $430,000 TO MIGHTY TIGER 
PRESCHOOL, LLC FOR TENANT IMPROVEMENTS AT 2575 FLORES STREET, SUITE 1 IN SAN 
MATEO TO ESTABLISH A NEW CHILD CARE FACILITY AND AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF 
LOAN DOCUMENTS 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City Council has prioritized its commitment to providing and developing 
innovative approaches to increase the supply of child care spaces within our community and 
strives to serve as a model for other communities throughout the county and the country; and 
 
WHEREAS, on November 15, 2021, the City Council adopted an ordinance codifying 
Chapter 23.65, “Child Care Development Fee;” and 
 
WHEREAS, on August 15, 2022, the City Council approved the revision of the Interim 
Child Care Fund Guidelines facilitating the implementation of the Child Care Facilities Fund 
program; and 
 
WHEREAS, in November 2022, the new Child Care Facilities Fund program was launched, 
allowing for access to funding assistance on an open and rolling basis; and 
 
WHEREAS, in April 2023, the first request for financial assistance from the Child Care 
Facilities Fund was submitted; and 
 
WHEREAS, a City staff committee including the Housing Manager, the Interim 
Community Development Department Director, and Senior Management Analyst reviewed the 
project application for viability and concurred in a recommendation of approval for a loan in 
the amount of $430,000 to Mighty Tiger Preschool, LLC for tenant improvements at 2575 Flores 
Street, Suite 1 in San Mateo to establish a new child care facility.  
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, 
HEREBY RESOLVES that:  
 
1. This loan is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational and 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) In addition, the child care 
facility is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists 
of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor 
alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, 
or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.) 
127 of 268

--- page 128 ---
2 
660\01\2564992.4 
2. Funds have previously been allocated to CIP project CHILD CARE FACILITIES 310600 
with a balance of $1,300,000 and the loan will be drawn from project PRJ-00016. 
3. The project loan listed below is approved and the City Manager or his designee is 
authorized to execute the loan documents, including the Loan Agreement Between 
the City of San Mateo and Mighty Tiger Preschool, LLC ( Exhibit 1), Promissory Note 
(Exhibit 2), Short Form Deed of Trust (Exhibit 3) and Agreement Containing 
Covenants Affecting Real Property (Exhibit 4) and any related documents that do not 
substantially change the loan terms, on behalf of the City: 
a. Mighty Tiger Preschool, LLC - $430,000 
 
 
128 of 268

--- page 129 ---
3 
660\01\2564992.4 
Exhibit 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
 
 
BETWEEN 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
AND 
 
 
 
MIGHTY TIGER PRESCHOOL, LLC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
129 of 268

--- page 130 ---
4 
660\01\2564992.4 
ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS AND EXHIBITS ............................................................................. 7 
Section 1.1 
Definitions................................................................................................... 7 
Section 1.2 
Exhibits. ...................................................................................................... 8 
ARTICLE 2. LOAN PROVISIONS ............................................................................................... 9 
Section 2.1 
Loan. ........................................................................................................... 9 
Section 2.2 
Interest......................................................................................................... 9 
Section 2.3 
Use of Loan Funds. ..................................................................................... 9 
Section 2.4 
Security. ...................................................................................................... 9 
Section 2.5 
Subordination. ............................................................................................. 9 
Section 2.6 
Conditions Precedent to Disbursement of Loan Funds............................. 10 
Section 2.7 
Repayment Schedule. ................................................................................ 12 
Section 2.8 
Non-Recourse. .......................................................................................... 12 
Section 2.9 
Compliance with Laws. ............................................................................ 13 
Section 2.10 State Prevailing Wages. ............................................................................ 13 
Section 2.11 Accessibility. ............................................................................................. 14 
Section 2.12 Equal Opportunity. .................................................................................... 14 
Section 2.13 Change in Development; Progress Reports. ............................................. 15 
Section 2.14 Inspections. ............................................................................................... 15 
Section 2.15 Approved Development Budget; Revisions to Budget. ............................ 15 
Section 2.16 Construction Contract. .............................................................................. 15 
Section 2.17 Performance and Payment Bonds. ............................................................ 15 
Section 2.18 Commencement and Completion of Construction. ................................... 17 
ARTICLE 3. LOAN REQUIREMENTS ...................................................................................... 17 
Section 3.1 
Annual Report; Information. ..................................................................... 17 
Section 3.2 
Hazardous Materials. ................................................................................ 17 
Section 3.3 
Maintenance; Damage and Destruction. ................................................... 19 
Section 3.4 
Fees and Taxes. ......................................................................................... 20 
Section 3.5 
Operation of Development as Childcare Facility. ..................................... 20 
Section 3.6 
Nondiscrimination..................................................................................... 20 
Section 3.7 
Transfer. .................................................................................................... 20 
Section 3.8 
Insurance Requirements. ........................................................................... 21 
ARTICLE 4. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF BORROWER ......................... 22 
Section 4.1 
Representations and Warranties. ............................................................... 22 
ARTICLE 5. DEFAULT AND REMEDIES ................................................................................ 24 
Section 5.1 
Events of Default. ..................................................................................... 24 
Section 5.2 
Remedies. .................................................................................................. 25 
Section 5.3 
Right of Contest. ....................................................................................... 26 
Section 5.4 
Remedies Cumulative. .............................................................................. 26 
130 of 268

--- page 131 ---
5 
660\01\2564992.4 
ARTICLE 6. GENERAL PROVISIONS ..................................................................................... 26 
Section 6.1 
Relationship of Parties. ............................................................................. 26 
Section 6.2 
No Claims. ................................................................................................ 27 
Section 6.3 
Amendments. ............................................................................................ 27 
Section 6.4 
Indemnification. ........................................................................................ 27 
Section 6.5 
Non-Liability of City Officials, Employees and Agents. ......................... 27 
Section 6.6 
No Third Party Beneficiaries. ................................................................... 28 
Section 6.7 
Discretion Retained By City. .................................................................... 28 
Section 6.8 
Notices, Demands and Communications. ................................................. 28 
Section 6.9 
Applicable Law. ........................................................................................ 28 
Section 6.10 Parties Bound. ........................................................................................... 28 
Section 6.11 Attorneys' Fees. ......................................................................................... 29 
Section 6.12 Severability. .............................................................................................. 29 
Section 6.13 Force Majeure. .......................................................................................... 29 
Section 6.14 City Approval............................................................................................ 29 
Section 6.15 Waivers. .................................................................................................... 29 
Section 6.16 Title of Parts and Sections. ....................................................................... 29 
Section 6.17 Entire Understanding of the Parties. ......................................................... 29 
Section 6.18 Multiple Originals; Counterpart. ............................................................... 30 
 
 
Exhibit A 
Legal Description of the Property 
Exhibit B 
Approved Development Budget 
Exhibit C 
Program Requirements 
Exhibit D 
Form of Annual Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
131 of 268

--- page 132 ---
6 
660\01\2564992.4 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
(City of San Mateo Child Care Loan Program) 
This Loan Agreement (the “Agreement”) is dated as of _______________, 20___ (the 
“Effective Date”), and is between the City of San Mateo, a California municipal corporation (the 
“City”), and MIGHTY TIGER PRESCHOOL, a California Limited Liability Company 
(“Borrower”). 
RECITALS 
A. 
In addition to defined terms in these recitals, defined terms used, but not defined, 
in these recitals are as defined in Article 1 of this Agreement. 
B. 
On August 15, 2022, the City Council approved revision of the Interim Child 
Care Fund Guidelines for Child Care Fund Program (the “Program”).   
C. 
Borrower leases the real property commonly known as 2575 Flores St, Suite 1, 
San Mateo, California, as more particularly described in Exhibit A (the “Property”), and the 
Borrower desires to construct, or otherwise expand, an approximately three thousand three 
hundred seven (3,307) square foot childcare facility to provide child care services for up to 
forty-eight (48) participants on the Property (the “Development”).  The Development and any 
additional improvements constructed on the Property are referred to as the “Improvements”.  The 
Property Owner has provided consent for the Improvements. 
D. 
Borrower owns the real property more commonly known as 115 Agustin 
Narvaez Street #4, San Jose, California, as more particularly described in Exhibit A (the 
“Collateral Property”), and Borrower desires to use this real property as collateral for the Loan. 
E. 
Borrower submitted an application and the City has selected the Borrower’s 
application for funding.  Pursuant to the Program the Borrower desires to borrow from the City, 
and the City desires to lend to the Borrower four hundred thirty thousand Dollars ($430,000) 
(the “Loan”) for the development of the Development. 
F. 
The Loan is evidenced by the Note, the Regulatory Agreement, and is secured by 
the Deed of Trust.  The Loan is being made solely to finance the construction of the 
Development, and is intended to increase the supply of quality childcare within the City.  Due to 
the assistance provided Borrower through the Loan, the City is requiring the Borrower to enter 
into the Regulatory Agreement. 
The Parties therefore agree as follows: 
 
 
132 of 268

--- page 133 ---
7 
660\01\2564992.4 
AGREEMENT 
 
ARTICLE 1. 
DEFINITIONS AND EXHIBITS 
Section 1.1 
Definitions.  The following terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Agreement” means this Loan Agreement. 
(b) 
“Annual Report” shall mean the Borrower’s annual report to the City 
regarding the Borrower’s compliance with the Program Requirements.  A form of the Annual 
Report is attached as Exhibit D. 
(c) 
“Approved Development Budget” means the proforma budget for the 
construction of the Development, including sources and uses of funds, as approved by the City, 
and attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit B. 
(d) 
“City” means the City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation. 
(e) 
“Deed of Trust” means the Short Form Deed of Trust and Assignment of 
Rents of even date herewith among Borrower, as Trustor, First American Title Company Title 
Company, as trustee, and the City, as beneficiary, that will encumber the Collateral Property to 
secure repayment of the Loan and performance of the covenants of the Loan Documents. 
(f) 
“Default Rate” means the lesser of the maximum rate permitted by law 
and ten percent (10%) per annum. 
(g) 
“Development” has the meaning set forth in Paragraph C of the Recitals. 
(h) 
“Event of Default” has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1. 
(i) 
“Hazardous Materials” means:  (1) any substance, material, or waste that 
is petroleum, petroleum-related, or a petroleum by-product, asbestos or asbestos-containing 
material, polychlorinated biphenyls, flammable, explosive, radioactive, freon gas, radon, or a 
pesticide, herbicide, or any other agricultural chemical; and (2) any waste, substance or material 
defined as or included in the definition of “hazardous substances”, “hazardous wastes”, 
“hazardous materials”, “toxic materials”, “toxic waste”, “toxic substances”, or words of similar 
import under any Hazardous Materials Law. 
(j) 
“Hazardous Materials Claims” means with respect to the Property:  (1) 
any and all enforcement, cleanup, removal or other governmental or regulatory actions instituted, 
completed or threatened against Borrower or the Property pursuant to any Hazardous Materials 
Law; and (2) all claims made or threatened by any third party against Borrower or the Property 
relating to damage, contribution, cost recovery compensation, loss or injury resulting from any 
Hazardous Materials. 
(k) 
“Hazardous Materials Law” means any federal, state or local laws, 
ordinances, or regulations relating to any Hazardous Materials, health, industrial hygiene, 
environmental conditions, or the regulation or protection of the environment, and all 
133 of 268

--- page 134 ---
8 
660\01\2564992.4 
amendments thereto as of this date and to be added in the future and any successor statute or rule 
or regulation promulgated thereto. 
(l) 
“Improvements” has the meaning set forth in Paragraph C of the Recitals. 
(m) 
“Loan Documents” means this Agreement, the Note, the Regulatory 
Agreement, and the Deed of Trust. 
(n) 
“Loan” has the meaning set forth in Paragraph D of the Recitals. 
(o) 
“Note” means the promissory note of even date herewith that evidences 
Borrower’s obligation to repay the Loan.  
(p) 
“Program Requirements” shall mean the requirements set forth in Exhibit 
C, including, but not limited to, the Borrower’s obligation to provide child care services at the 
Property in accordance with the Loan Documents. 
(q) 
“Property” has the meaning set forth in Paragraph C of the Recitals. 
“Collateral Property” has the meaning set forth in Paragraph C of the Recitals. 
(r) 
“Regulatory Agreement” means the Agreement Containing Covenants 
Affecting Real Property, of even date herewith, between the City and Borrower related to the 
Loan, to be recorded against the Property. 
(s) 
“Retention Amount” means ten percent (10%) of each disbursement of the 
Loan made by the City to Borrower (other than the final disbursement of the Loan). 
(t) 
“Senior Loan” has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5. 
(u) 
“Term” means the term of the Loan which shall commence on the 
Effective Date and shall terminate on the earlier of: (i) the full forgiveness of the Loan by the 
City, in accordance with the Note; (ii) the full repayment of the Loan; or (iii) thirty (30) years 
following the Effective Date. 
(v) 
“Transfer” has the meaning set forth in Section 3.8 below. 
Section 1.2 
Exhibits. 
The following exhibits are attached to this Agreement and incorporated into this 
Agreement by this reference: 
Exhibit A: 
Legal Description of the Property 
Exhibit B: 
Approved Development Budget 
Exhibit C: 
Program Requirements 
Exhibit D: 
Form of Annual Report 
 
 
134 of 268

--- page 135 ---
9 
660\01\2564992.4 
ARTICLE 2. 
LOAN PROVISIONS 
Section 2.1 
Loan. 
Upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.6 of this Agreement, the City 
shall lend to Borrower the Loan for the purposes set forth in Section 2.3 of this Agreement.  
Borrower’s obligation to repay the Loan is evidenced by the Note. 
Section 2.2 
Interest. 
(a) 
Loan. Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, no interest will 
accrue on the outstanding principal balance of the Loan.   
(b) 
Default Interest.  Upon the occurrence of an Event of a Default, interest on 
the outstanding principal balance of the Loan will begin to accrue, beginning on the date of such 
occurrence and continuing until the date the Loan is repaid in full or the Event of Default is 
cured, at which time the accrued interest shall be automatically forgiven at the Default Rate. 
Section 2.3 
Use of Loan Funds. 
Borrower shall use the Loan for the construction of the Development consistent with the 
Approved Development Budget.  Borrower may not use the Loan proceeds for any other 
purposes without the prior written consent of the City. 
Section 2.4 
Security. 
In consideration of the Loan, Borrower shall: (a) secure its obligation to repay the Loan, 
as evidenced by the Note, by executing the Deed of Trust, and cause or permit it to be recorded 
as a lien against the Collateral Property, and (b) execute the Regulatory Agreement, and cause or 
permit it to be recorded against the Property.  
Section 2.5 
Subordination. 
(a) 
Any agreement by the City to subordinate the Deed of Trust and/or 
Regulatory Agreement to an encumbrance securing and/or evidencing any loan obtained by 
Borrower to finance the Development (each, a “Senior Loan”) shall be subject to the satisfaction 
of each of the following conditions: 
(1) 
All of the proceeds of the Senior Loan, less any transaction costs, 
are used to provide acquisition, construction and/or permanent financing for the Development. 
(2) 
The lender of the Senior Loan is a state or federally chartered 
financial institution, a nonprofit corporation or a public entity that is not affiliated with Borrower 
or any of Borrower’s affiliates, other than as a depositor or a lender. 
(3) 
Borrower demonstrates to the City’s satisfaction that subordination 
of the Deed of Trust and the Regulatory Agreement is necessary to ensure the viability of the 
Development, including the operation of the Development as a childcare facility, as required by 
135 of 268

--- page 136 ---
10 
660\01\2564992.4 
the Loan Documents.  To satisfy this requirement, Borrower must provide to the City, in addition 
to any other information reasonably required by the City, evidence demonstrating that the 
proposed amount of the Senior Loan is necessary to provide adequate acquisition, construction, 
and/or permanent financing to ensure the viability of the Development, and adequate financing 
for the Development would not be available without the proposed subordination. 
(4) 
The subordination agreement(s) is structured to minimize the risk 
that the Deed of Trust and the Regulatory Agreement will be extinguished as a result of a 
foreclosure by the holder of the Senior Loan.  To satisfy this requirement, the subordination 
agreement must provide the City with adequate rights to cure any defaults by Borrower, 
including:  (i) providing the City or its successor with copies of any notices of default at the same 
time and in the same manner as provided to Borrower; and (ii) providing the City with a cure 
period of at least sixty (60) days to cure any default. 
(5) 
The subordination(s) of the Loan is effective only during the 
original term of the Senior Loan and any extension of its term that is approved in writing by the 
City. 
(6) 
The subordination does not limit the effect of the Deed of Trust 
and the Regulatory Agreement before a foreclosure, nor require the consent of the Bank prior to 
the City exercising any remedies available to the City under the Loan Documents. 
(b) 
Upon a determination by the City Manager that the conditions in this 
Section have been satisfied, the City Manager, or his/her designee, will be authorized to execute 
the approved subordination agreement without the necessity of any further action or approval. 
Section 2.6 
Conditions Precedent to Disbursement of Loan Funds. 
(a) 
Conditions to Disbursement.  The total disbursements made pursuant to 
this Section 2.6 may not exceed four hundred thirty thousand Dollars ($430,000).  The City is 
not obligated to disburse any portion of the Loan, or to take any other action under the Loan 
Documents unless all of the following conditions have been and continue to be satisfied:  
(1) 
There exists no Event of Default nor any act, failure, omission or 
condition that would constitute an Event of Default under the Loan Documents; 
(2) 
Borrower holds a legal or equitable property interest in the 
Property or is acquiring a legal or equitable property interest in the Property simultaneously with 
the disbursement of the Loan proceeds;  
(3) 
Borrower has delivered to the City a copy of a corporate resolution 
authorizing Borrower to obtain the Loan, and execute the Loan Documents; 
(4) 
There exists no material adverse change in the financial condition 
of Borrower from that shown by the financial statements and other data and information 
furnished by Borrower to the City prior to the Effective Date; 
136 of 268

--- page 137 ---
11 
660\01\2564992.4 
(5) 
Borrower has furnished the City with evidence of the insurance 
coverage meeting the requirements of Section 3.8 below; 
(6) 
Borrower has executed and delivered to the City the Loan 
Documents and has caused all other documents, instruments, and policies required under the 
Loan Documents to be delivered to the City, including, but not limited to the construction 
contract, the payment and performance bonds, and the applicable permits for the construction of 
the Development, all as more particularly set forth below; 
(7) 
The Deed of Trust has been recorded against the Collateral 
Property in the Office of the Recorder of the County of Santa Clara, and the Regulatory 
Agreement has been recorded against the Property in the Office of the Recorder of the County of 
San Mateo; 
(8) 
A title insurer reasonably acceptable to the City is unconditionally 
and irrevocably committed to issuing an LP-10 2006 ALTA Lender’s Policy of title insurance 
insuring the priority of the Deed of Trust in the amount of the Loan, subject only to such 
exceptions and exclusions as may be reasonably acceptable to the City, and containing such 
endorsements as the City may reasonably require.  To the extent applicable, the Borrower shall 
provide whatever documentation (including an indemnification agreement), deposits or surety is 
reasonably required by the title company in order for the City’s Deed of Trust to be senior in lien 
priority to any mechanics liens in connection with any start of work that has occurred prior to the 
recordation of the Deed of Trust against the Collateral Property; 
(9) 
The City has received a written draw request from Borrower, 
including certification that the condition set forth in Section 2.6(a)(1) continues to be satisfied, 
and setting forth the proposed uses of funds consistent with this Agreement, the amount of funds 
needed less the Retention Amount, and, where applicable, a copy of the bill or invoice covering a 
cost incurred or to be incurred.  When a disbursement is requested to pay any contractor in 
connection with work performed on, or for the benefit of, the Property, the written request must 
be accompanied by lien releases and/or mechanics lien title insurance endorsements reasonably 
acceptable to the City. The City reserves the right to inspect the Property and make an 
independent evaluation that all work has been completed. 
(b) 
Retention Amount.  The City is not obligated to disburse any portion of 
the Retention Amount unless all of the following conditions have been and continue to be 
satisfied: 
(1) 
There exists no Event of Default nor any act, failure, omission or 
condition that would constitute an Event of Default under this Agreement; 
(2) 
Borrower has caused the completion of the construction of the 
Development (as evidenced by a certificate of occupancy, or equivalent document); and 
(3) 
The City has received a written draw request from Borrower, 
including certification that the condition set forth in Section 2.6(a)(1) continues to be satisfied, 
and setting forth the proposed uses of funds consistent with this Agreement, the amount of the 
Retention Amount requested, and, where applicable, a copy of the bill or invoice covering a cost 
137 of 268

--- page 138 ---
12 
660\01\2564992.4 
incurred or to be incurred.  When a disbursement is requested to pay any contractor in 
connection with work performed on, or for the benefit of, the Property, the written request must 
be accompanied by lien releases and/or mechanics lien title insurance endorsements reasonably 
acceptable to the City.  The City reserves the right to inspect the Property and make an 
independent evaluation that all work has been completed. 
Section 2.7 
Repayment Schedule. 
(a) 
Partial Forgiveness.  For each year the Borrowers satisfies the Program 
Requirements, as evidenced by the City’s approval of the Annual Report, in accordance with 
Section 3.1, the City shall forgive a portion of the Loan in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) 
of the original principal amount four hundred thirty thousand Dollars ($430,000). In the event 
the Borrower satisfies the Program Requirements for ten (10) years, during the Term, then the 
entire Loan amount shall be forgiven, and in such event, the following shall occur: (i) this 
Agreement shall terminate; (ii) the City shall mark the Note as “Cancelled” and return the 
original Note to the Borrower; and (iii) the City shall cause the reconveyance of the Deed of 
Trust and termination of the Regulatory Agreement.  In the event the Borrower fails to satisfy the 
Program Requirements for ten (10) years during the Term, then upon expiration of the Term, the 
Loan (less any portion previously forgiven by the City pursuant to the Loan Documents) shall be 
immediately due and payable. 
(b) 
Payment in Full of Loan.  Borrower shall pay all outstanding principal and 
accrued interest on the Loan, in full, on the earliest to occur of:  (i) any Transfer other than as 
permitted pursuant to Section 3.7; (ii) an Event of Default; and (iii) the expiration of the Term. 
(c) 
Prepayment.  Borrower may prepay the Loan at any time without premium 
or penalty. 
Section 2.8 
Non-Recourse.  
Except as provided below, Borrower shall not have any direct or indirect personal 
liability for payment of the principal of, and interest on, the Loan.  Following recordation of the 
Deed of Trust, the sole recourse of the City with respect to the principal of, or interest on, the 
Note will be to the property described in the Deed of Trust; provided, however, that nothing 
contained in the foregoing limitation of liability limits or impairs the enforcement of all the 
rights and remedies of the City against all such security for the Note, or impairs the right of City 
to assert the unpaid principal amount of the Note as demand for money within the meaning and 
intendment of Section 431.70 of the California Code of Civil Procedure or any successor 
provision thereto.  The foregoing limitation of liability is intended to apply only to the obligation 
to repay the principal and interest on the Note.  Except as hereafter set forth; nothing contained 
herein is intended to relieve Borrower of its obligation to indemnify the City under this 
Agreement, or liability for:  (i) loss or damage of any kind resulting from waste, fraud or willful 
misrepresentation; (ii) the failure to pay taxes, assessments or other charges which may create 
liens on the Property that are payable or applicable prior to any foreclosure under the Deed of 
Trust (to the full extent of such taxes, assessments or other charges); (iii) the fair market value of 
any personal property or fixtures removed or disposed of by Borrower other than in accordance 
with the Deed of Trust; and (iv) the misappropriation of any proceeds under any insurance 
138 of 268

--- page 139 ---
13 
660\01\2564992.4 
policies or awards resulting from condemnation or the exercise of the power of eminent domain 
or by reason of damage, loss or destruction to any portion of the Property. 
Section 2.9 
Compliance with Laws. Borrower shall cause all work performed in 
connection with the Development to be performed in compliance with:  
(a) 
All applicable laws, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations of federal, 
state, City or municipal governments or agencies now in force or that may be enacted hereafter; 
and  
(b) 
All directions, rules and regulations of any fire marshal, health officer, 
building inspector, or other officer of every governmental agency now having or hereafter 
acquiring jurisdiction.  Borrower may permit the work to proceed only after procurement of each 
permit, license, or other authorization that may be required by any governmental agency having 
jurisdiction, and Borrower is responsible to the City for the procurement and maintenance 
thereof. 
Section 2.10 State Prevailing Wages. 
(a) 
To the extent required by applicable law, Borrower shall: 
(1) 
pay, and shall cause any consultants or contractors to pay, 
prevailing wages for the construction of the Development as those wages are determined 
pursuant to California Labor Code Sections 1720 et seq.;  
(2) 
cause any consultants or contractors to employ apprentices as 
required by California Labor Code Section 1777.5 et seq., and the implementing regulations of 
the Department of Industrial Relations (the “DIR”), and to comply with the other applicable 
provisions of California Labor Code Sections 1720 et seq., 1777.5 et seq., and implementing 
regulations of the DIR;  
(3) 
keep and retain, and shall cause any consultants and contractors to 
keep and retain, such records as are necessary to determine if such prevailing wages have been 
paid as required pursuant to California Labor Code Section 1720 et seq., and apprentices have 
been employed are required by California Labor Code Section 1777.5 et seq.;  
(4) 
post at the Property, or shall cause the contractor to post at the 
Property, the applicable prevailing rates of per diem wages.  Copies of the currently applicable 
current per diem prevailing wages are available from DIR;  
(5) 
cause contractors and subcontractors performing work on the 
Property to be registered as set forth in California Labor Code Section 1725.5;  
(6) 
cause its contractors and subcontractors, in all calls for bids, 
bidding materials and the construction contract documents for work on the Property to specify 
that: 
139 of 268

--- page 140 ---
14 
660\01\2564992.4 
(A) 
no contractor or subcontractor may be listed on a bid 
proposal nor be awarded a contract for work on the Property unless registered with the DIR 
pursuant to California Labor Code Section 1725.5; and 
(B) 
the work at the Property is subject to compliance 
monitoring and enforcement by the DIR; 
(7) 
provide the City all information required by California Labor Code 
Section 1773.3 as set forth in the DIR’s online form PWC-100 within 2 days of the award of any 
contract (https://www.dir.ca.gov/pwc100ext/); 
(8) 
cause its contractors to post job site notices, as prescribed by 
regulation by the DIR; and 
(9) 
cause its contractors to furnish payroll records required by 
California Labor Code Section 1776 directly to the Labor Commissioner, at least monthly in the 
electronic format prescribed by the Labor Commissioner. 
(b) 
Borrower shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend (with counsel 
reasonably acceptable to the City) the City against any claim for damages, compensation, fines, 
penalties or other amounts arising out of the failure or alleged failure of any person or entity 
(including Borrower, its contractor and subcontractors) to pay prevailing wages as determined 
pursuant to California Labor Code Section 1720 et seq., to employ apprentices pursuant to 
California Labor Code Section 1777.5 et seq., to meet the conditions of California Labor Code 
Section 1771.4, and implementing regulations of the DIR, or to comply with the other applicable 
provisions of California Labor Code Sections 1720 et seq., 1777.5 et seq., and 1771.4, and the 
implementing regulations of the DIR, in connection with the work undertaken at the Property.  
The requirements in this Section survive the repayment of the Loan, and the reconveyance of the 
Deed of Trust. 
Section 2.11 Accessibility. 
Borrower shall cause the Development to be constructed in compliance with all 
applicable federal and state disabled persons accessibility requirements including but not limited 
to the Americans with Disabilities Act; and Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations 
(collectively, the “Accessibility Requirements”).  Borrower shall indemnify, hold harmless and 
defend (with counsel reasonably acceptable to the City) the City against any claim for damages, 
compensation, fines, penalties or other amounts arising out of the failure or alleged failure of any 
person or entity (including Borrower, its architect, contractor and subcontractors) to construct the 
Development in accordance with the Accessibility Requirements.  The requirements in this 
Section survive repayment of the Loan and the reconveyance of the Deed of Trust.  
Section 2.12 Equal Opportunity. 
During the construction of the Development, discrimination on the basis of race, color, 
creed, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, or disability 
in the hiring, firing, promoting, or demoting of any person engaged in the construction work on 
the Property is not allowed.  
140 of 268

--- page 141 ---
15 
660\01\2564992.4 
Section 2.13 Change in Development; Progress Reports. 
Following the Effective Date, the Borrower shall not make any change to the total square 
footage of the Development or any other change that will result in the reduction of the permitted 
number of users of the childcare facility without the City’s prior written consent, which shall not 
be unreasonably withheld, delayed, or conditioned.  Until such time as Borrower has received a 
certificate of occupancy from the City for the Development, Borrower shall provide the City 
with quarterly progress reports regarding the Property.   
Section 2.14 Inspections. 
Borrower shall permit and facilitate, and shall require its contractors to permit and 
facilitate, observation and inspection at the Development by the City and by public authorities 
during reasonable business hours during the Term, for the purposes of determining compliance 
with this Agreement.   
Section 2.15 Approved Development Budget; Revisions to Budget. 
As of the Effective Date, the City has approved the Approved Development Budget set 
forth in Exhibit B.  Borrower shall submit any required amendments to the Approved 
Development Budget to the City for approval within five (5) days after the date Borrower 
receives information indicating that actual costs of the Development vary or will vary from the 
costs shown on the Approved Development Budget.  Written consent of the City will be required 
to amend the Approved Development Budget. 
Section 2.16 Construction Contract. 
(a) 
Prior to commencement of work at the Property, Borrower shall submit to 
the City for its approval a draft of the proposed contract for the construction of the Development.  
All work and professional services are to be performed by persons or entities licensed or 
otherwise authorized to perform the applicable work or service in the State of California.  The 
City’s approval of the construction contract shall not be deemed to constitute approval of or 
concurrence with any term or condition of the construction contract except as such term or 
condition may be required by this Agreement. 
(b) 
Upon receipt by the City of the proposed contract, the City shall promptly 
review same and approve or disapprove it within five (5) days.  If the construction contract is not 
approved by the City, the City shall set forth in writing and notify Borrower of the City’s reasons 
for withholding such approval.  Borrower shall thereafter submit a revised contract for City 
approval, which approval is to be granted or denied in five (5) days in accordance with the 
procedures set forth above.   
Section 2.17 Performance and Payment Bonds. 
Prior to the commencement of work at the Property, Borrower shall deliver to the City 
copies of labor and material bonds and performance bonds for the construction of the 
Development in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the scheduled cost of the 
work (the “Construction Bonds”).  Such bonds shall:  (i) be in a form reasonably acceptably to 
141 of 268

--- page 142 ---
16 
660\01\2564992.4 
the City; (ii) be issued by a surety licensed to do business in California, named in the current list 
of “Surety Companies Acceptable on Federal Bonds” as published in the Federal Register by the 
Audit Staff Bureau of Accounts, U.S. Treasury Department, and reasonably acceptable to the 
City; and (iii) name the City as a co-obligee.   
 
 
142 of 268

--- page 143 ---
17 
660\01\2564992.4 
Section 2.18 Commencement and Completion of Construction. 
Borrower shall make best efforts to commence construction of the Development on or 
prior to October 1, 2023; provided, however, in no event shall Borrower cause any construction 
work to be performed on the Property unless and until the Borrower has obtained all necessary 
permits for such work from the City and/or any other applicable governmental authority.  
Borrower acknowledges that nothing in this Agreement obligates the City to issue any permit to 
the Borrower or for any proposed work on the Property.  Borrower shall make best efforts to 
diligently prosecute such work to completion by no later than January 31, 2024. 
 
ARTICLE 3. 
LOAN REQUIREMENTS 
Section 3.1 
Annual Report; Information. 
No later than each March 1, throughout the Term, the Borrower shall submit to the City 
the Annual Report that includes the status of implementation of the Program Requirements for 
the preceding year. The Annual Report shall also include a narrative summarizing the annual 
efforts, highlights, and challenges in achievement of goals that assure a high-quality program and 
includes a description of professional development and/or continuing education for staff that 
support quality and continuous improvement.  The Borrower’s submission of, and the City’s 
approval of, the Annual Report is a condition precedent to the annual forgiveness of the Loan (if 
any).  In the event the City disapproves of an Annual Report, then the City shall deliver, within 
sixty (60) days after receipt of the Annual Report, a written notice to the Borrower setting forth, 
in reasonable detail, the reasons for the City’s disapproval.  Upon approval by the City of the 
Annual Report, the City shall deliver a written notice to the Borrower setting forth the portion of 
the Loan forgiven and the remaining balance of the Loan.  In addition to such Annual Report, 
Borrower shall deliver such other information regarding the Development the City may 
reasonably request from time to time during the Term, including, but not limited to any litigation 
affecting the Borrower or the Property, or any notices from any licensing agency. 
Section 3.2 
Hazardous Materials. 
(a) 
Borrower shall keep and maintain the Property (including but not limited 
to, soil and ground water conditions) in compliance with all Hazardous Materials Laws and may 
not cause or permit the Property to be in violation of any Hazardous Materials Law.  Borrower 
may not cause or permit the use, generation, manufacture, storage or disposal of on, under, or 
about the Property or transportation to or from the Property of any Hazardous Materials, except 
such of the foregoing as may be customarily used in projects like the Development or kept and 
used in and about property of this type. 
(b) 
Borrower shall immediately advise the City in writing if at any time it 
receives written notice of any Hazardous Materials Claims, and Borrower’s discovery of any 
occurrence or condition on any real property adjoining or in the vicinity of the Property that 
could cause the Property or any part thereof to be subject to California Health and Safety Code, 
Section 25220 et seq., or any regulation adopted in accordance therewith, or to be otherwise 
143 of 268

--- page 144 ---
18 
660\01\2564992.4 
subject to any restrictions on the ownership, occupancy, transferability or use of the Property 
under any Hazardous Materials Law. 
(c) 
The City has the right to join and participate in, as a party if it so elects, 
and be represented by counsel acceptable to the City (or counsel of its own choice if a conflict 
exists with Borrower) in any legal proceedings or actions initiated in connection with any 
Hazardous Materials Claims and to have its reasonable attorneys’ fees in connection therewith 
paid by Borrower.   
(d) 
Borrower shall indemnify and hold harmless the City and its board 
members, supervisors, directors, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns from and 
against any loss, damage, cost, fine, penalty, judgment, award, settlement, expense or liability, 
directly or indirectly arising out of or attributable to:  (1) any actual or alleged past or present 
violation of any Hazardous Materials Law; (2) any Hazardous Materials Claim; (3) any actual or 
alleged past or present use, generation, manufacture, storage, release, threatened release, 
discharge, disposal, transportation, or presence of Hazardous Materials on, under, or about the 
Property; (4) any investigation, cleanup, remediation, removal, or restoration work of site 
conditions of the Property relating to Hazardous Materials (whether on the Property or any other 
property); and (5) the breach of any representation of warranty by or covenant of Borrower in 
this Section 3.5, and Section 4.1(l).  Such indemnity shall include, without limitation:  (A) all 
consequential damages; (B) the costs of any required or necessary investigation, repair, cleanup 
or detoxification of the Property and the preparation and implementation of any closure, remedial 
or other required plans; and (z) all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the City in 
connection with clauses (A) and (B), including but not limited to reasonable attorneys’ fees and 
consultant fees except to the extent caused by the City’s active negligence or willful misconduct.  
This indemnification applies whether or not any government agency has issued a cleanup order.  
Losses, claims, costs, suits, liability, and expenses covered by this indemnification provision 
include, but are not limited to:  (1) losses attributable to diminution in the value of the Property, 
(2) loss or restriction of use of rentable space on the Property and/or the Collateral Property, (3) 
adverse effect on the marketing of any rental space on the Property, and (4) penalties and fines 
levied by, and remedial or enforcement actions of any kind issued by any regulatory agency 
(including but not limited to the costs of any required testing, remediation, repair, removal, 
cleanup or detoxification of the Property and/or the Collateral Property and surrounding 
properties).  This obligation to indemnify will survive termination of this Agreement and will not 
be diminished or affected in any respect as a result of any notice, disclosure, knowledge, if any, 
to or by the City of Hazardous Materials. 
(e) 
Without the City’s prior written consent, which will not be unreasonably 
withheld, Borrower may not take any remedial action in response to the presence of any 
Hazardous Materials on, under or about the Property, nor enter into any settlement agreement, 
consent decree, or other compromise in respect to any Hazardous Material Claims, which 
remedial action, settlement, consent decree or compromise might, in the City’s judgment, impair 
the value of the City's security hereunder; provided, however, that the City’s prior consent is not 
necessary in the event that the presence of Hazardous Materials on, under, or about the Property 
either poses an immediate threat to the health, safety or welfare of any individual or is of such a 
nature that an immediate remedial response is necessary and it is not reasonably possible to 
obtain the City’s consent before taking such action, provided that in such event Borrower shall 
144 of 268

--- page 145 ---
19 
660\01\2564992.4 
notify the City as soon as practicable of any action so taken.  The City agrees not to withhold its 
consent, where such consent is required hereunder, if:  (i) a particular remedial action is ordered 
by a court of competent jurisdiction; (ii) Borrower will or may be subjected to civil or criminal 
sanctions or penalties if it fails to take a required action; (iii) Borrower establishes to the 
reasonable satisfaction of the City that there is no reasonable alternative to such remedial action 
which would result in less impairment of the City’s security hereunder; or (iv) the action has 
been agreed to by the City. 
(f) 
Borrower hereby acknowledges and agrees that:  (1) this Section is 
intended as the City’s written request for information (and Borrower’s response) concerning the 
environmental condition of the Property as required by California Code of Civil Procedure 
Section 726.5; and (2) each representation and warranty in this Agreement (together with any 
indemnity obligation applicable to a breach of any such representation and warranty) with 
respect to the environmental condition of the Property is intended by the Parties to be an 
“environmental provision” for purposes of California Code of Civil Procedure Section 736. 
(g) 
In the event that any portion of the Property is determined to be 
“environmentally impaired” (as that term is defined in California Code of Civil Procedure 
Section 726.5(e)(3)) or to be an “affected parcel” (as that term is defined in California Code of 
Civil Procedure Section 726.5(e)(1)), then, without otherwise limiting or in any way affecting the 
City’s or the trustee’s rights and remedies under the Deed of Trust, the City may elect to exercise 
its rights under California Code of Civil Procedure Section 726.5(a) to:  (1) waive its lien on 
such environmentally impaired or affected portion of the Property; and (2) exercise, (A) the 
rights and remedies of an unsecured creditor, including reduction of its claim against Borrower 
to judgment, and (B) any other rights and remedies permitted by law. For purposes of 
determining the City’s right to proceed as an unsecured creditor under California Code of Civil 
Procedure Section 726.5(a), Borrower will be deemed to have willfully permitted or acquiesced 
in a release or threatened release of Hazardous Materials, within the meaning of California Code 
of Civil Procedure Section 726.5(d)(1), if the release or threatened release of Hazardous 
Materials was knowingly or negligently caused or contributed to by any lessee, occupant, or user 
of any portion of the Property and Borrower knew or should have known of the activity by such 
lessee, occupant, or user which caused or contributed to the release or threatened release.  All 
costs and expenses, including (but not limited to) attorneys’ fees, incurred by the City in 
connection with any action commenced under this paragraph, including any action required by 
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 726.5(b) to determine the degree to which the 
Property is environmentally impaired, plus interest thereon at the Default Rate, until paid, will be 
added to the indebtedness secured by the Deed of Trust and is due and payable to the City upon 
its demand made at any time following the conclusion of such action. 
Section 3.3 
Maintenance; Damage and Destruction. 
(a) 
During the course of construction and operation of the Development 
Borrower shall maintain the Development and the Property in good repair and in a neat, clean 
and orderly condition.  If there arises a condition in contravention of this requirement, and if 
Borrower has not cured such condition within thirty (30) days after receiving a City notice of 
such a condition, then in addition to any other rights available to the City, the City may perform 
all acts necessary to cure such condition, and to establish or enforce a lien or other encumbrance 
against the Property, subject to the provisions provided in subsection (b) below. 
145 of 268

--- page 146 ---
20 
660\01\2564992.4 
(b) 
Subject to the requirements of senior lenders, and if economically feasible 
in the City’s judgment after consultation with Borrower, if any improvement now or in the future 
on the Property is damaged or destroyed, then Borrower shall, at its cost and expense, diligently 
undertake to repair or restore such improvement consistent with the plans and specifications 
approved by the City with such changes as have been approved by the City.  Such work or repair 
is to be commenced no later than the later of one hundred twenty (120) days, or such longer 
period approved by the City in writing, after the damage or loss occurs or thirty (30) days 
following receipt of the insurance proceeds, and is to be complete within one (1) year thereafter.  
Any insurance proceeds collected for such damage or destruction are to be applied to the cost of 
such repairs or restoration and, if such insurance proceeds are insufficient for such purpose, then 
Borrower shall make up the deficiency.  If Borrower does not promptly make such repairs then 
any insurance proceeds collected for such damage or destruction are to be promptly delivered by 
Borrower to the City as a special repayment of the Loan, subject to the rights of the senior 
lenders, if any. 
Section 3.4 
Fees and Taxes. 
Borrower is solely responsible for payment of all fees, assessments, taxes, charges, and 
levies imposed by any public authority or utility company with respect to the Property or the 
Development, and shall pay such charges prior to delinquency.  However, Borrower is not 
required to pay and discharge any such charge so long as:  (a) the legality thereof is being 
contested diligently and in good faith and by appropriate proceedings; and (b) if requested by the 
City, Borrower deposits with the City any funds or other forms of assurance that the City in good 
faith from time to time determines appropriate to protect the City from the consequences of the 
contest being unsuccessful. 
Section 3.5 
Operation of Development as Childcare Facility. 
Borrower shall operate the Development as a childcare facility consistent with:  (a) the 
Regulatory Agreement; and (b) any other regulatory requirements imposed on the Borrower or 
the Property, including, but not limited to, obtaining and maintaining any required license(s).  
Section 3.6 
Nondiscrimination. 
Borrower covenants by and for itself and its successors and assigns that there will be no 
discrimination against or segregation of a person or of a group of persons on account of race, 
color, religion, creed, age, familial status, disability, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, 
ancestry or national origin in the admission of users of the Development, nor may Borrower or 
any person claiming under or through Borrower establish or permit any such practice or practices 
of discrimination.  The foregoing covenant will run with the land. 
Section 3.7 
Transfer. 
For purposes of this Agreement, “Transfer” means any sale, assignment, or transfer, 
whether voluntary or involuntary, of:  (i) any rights and/or duties under this Agreement; and/or 
(ii) any interest in the Development, including (but not limited to) a fee simple interest, a joint 
tenancy interest, a life estate, a partnership interest, a leasehold interest, a security interest, or an 
146 of 268

--- page 147 ---
21 
660\01\2564992.4 
interest evidenced by a land contract by which possession of the Development is transferred and 
Borrower retains title.   
(a) 
No Transfer is permitted without the prior written consent of the City, 
which the City may withhold in its sole discretion.  Notwithstanding any provision to the 
contrary, the Loan will automatically accelerate and be due in full upon any Transfer made 
without the prior written consent of the City. In the event of any conflict between this subsection 
and any other provision of the Loan Documents, this subsection shall prevail. 
(b) 
The City hereby approves the grant of the security interests in the 
Development for any deed of trust to which the City has agreed to subordinate. 
Section 3.8 
Insurance Requirements. 
(a) 
Borrower shall maintain the following insurance coverage throughout the 
Term of the Loan: 
(1) 
Workers’ Compensation insurance to the extent required by law, 
including Employer’s Liability coverage, with limits not less than One Million Dollars 
($1,000,000) each accident. 
(2) 
Commercial General Liability insurance with limits not less than 
Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) each occurrence combined single limit for Bodily Injury and 
Property Damage, including coverages for Contractual Liability, Personal Injury, Broadform 
Property Damage, Products and Completed Operations.  
(3) 
Automobile Liability insurance with limits not less than One 
Million Dollars ($1,000,000) each occurrence combined single limit for Bodily Injury and 
Property Damage, including coverages for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles, as applicable. 
(4) 
Builders’ Risk insurance during the course of construction and 
upon completion, property insurance covering the Development, in form appropriate for the 
nature of such property, covering all risks of loss, excluding earthquake, for one hundred percent 
(100%) of the replacement value, with deductible, if any, acceptable to the City, naming the City 
as a Loss Payee, as its interests may appear.  Flood insurance must be obtained if required by 
applicable federal regulations.  
(5) 
Commercial crime insurance covering all officers and employees, 
for loss of Loan proceeds caused by dishonesty, in an amount approved by the City, naming the 
City a Loss Payee, as its interests may appear which insurance shall be maintained only until the 
entire balance of the Loan has been disbursed. 
(b) 
Borrower shall cause any general contractor, agent, or subcontractor 
working on the Development under direct contract with Borrower or subcontract to maintain 
insurance of the types and in at least the minimum amounts described in subsections (1), (2), and 
(3) above, except that the limit of liability for commercial general liability insurance for 
subcontractors must be One Million Dollars ($1,000,000), and must require that such insurance 
will meet all of the general requirements of subsections (d) and (e) below. 
147 of 268

--- page 148 ---
22 
660\01\2564992.4 
(c) 
The required insurance must be provided under an occurrence form, and 
Borrower shall maintain the coverage described in subsection (a) continuously throughout the 
Term.  Should any of the required insurance be provided under a form of coverage that includes 
an annual aggregate limit or provides that claims investigation or legal defense costs be included 
in such annual aggregate limit, such annual aggregate limit must be three times the occurrence 
limits specified above. 
(d) 
Commercial General Liability, Automobile Liability and Property 
insurance policies must be endorsed to name as an additional insured the City and its officers, 
agents, employees and members of the City Council.  
(e) 
All policies and bonds are to contain:  (i) the agreement of the insurer to 
give the City at least thirty (30) days’ notice prior to cancellation (including, without limitation, 
for non-payment of premium) or any material change in said policies; (ii) an agreement that such 
policies are primary and non-contributing with any insurance that may be carried by the City; 
(iii) a provision that no act or omission of Borrower shall affect or limit the obligation of the 
insurance carrier to pay the amount of any loss sustained; and (iv) a waiver by the insurer of all 
rights of subrogation against the City and its authorized parties in connection with any loss or 
damage thereby insured against. 
 
ARTICLE 4. 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF BORROWER  
Section 4.1 
Representations and Warranties. 
Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the City as follows and acknowledges, 
understands, and agrees that the representations and warranties set forth in this Article are 
deemed to be continuing during all times when any portion of the Loan remains outstanding: 
(a) 
Organization.  Borrower is duly organized, validly existing and in good 
standing under the laws of the State of California and has the power and authority to own its 
property and carry on its business as now being conducted.   
(b) 
Authority of Borrower.  Borrower has full power and authority to execute 
and deliver this Agreement and to make and accept the borrowings contemplated hereunder, to 
execute and deliver the Loan Documents and all other documents or instruments executed and 
delivered, or to be executed and delivered, pursuant to this Agreement, and to perform and 
observe the terms and provisions of all of the above.   
(c) 
Authority of Persons Executing Documents.  This Agreement and the 
Loan Documents and all other documents or instruments executed and delivered, or to be 
executed and delivered, pursuant to this Agreement have been executed and delivered by persons 
who are duly authorized to execute and deliver the same for and on behalf of Borrower, and all 
actions required under Borrower’s organizational documents and applicable governing law for 
the authorization, execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Loan 
Documents and all other documents or instruments executed and delivered, or to be executed and 
delivered, pursuant to this Agreement, have been duly taken. 
148 of 268

--- page 149 ---
23 
660\01\2564992.4 
(d) 
Valid Binding Agreements.  The Loan Documents and all other 
documents or instruments executed and delivered pursuant to or in connection with this 
Agreement constitute or, if not yet executed or delivered, will when so executed and delivered 
constitute, legal, valid and binding obligations of Borrower enforceable against it in accordance 
with their respective terms.  
(e) 
No Breach of Law or Agreement.  Neither the execution nor delivery of 
the Loan Documents or of any other documents or instruments executed and delivered, or to be 
executed or delivered, pursuant to this Agreement, nor the performance of any provision, 
condition, covenant or other term hereof or thereof, will:  (i) conflict with or result in a breach of 
any statute, rule or regulation, or any judgment, decree or order of any court, board, commission 
or agency whatsoever that is binding on Borrower, or conflict with any provision of the 
organizational documents of Borrower, or conflict with any agreement to which Borrower is a 
party; or (ii) result in the creation or imposition of any lien upon any assets or property of 
Borrower, other than liens established pursuant hereto.  
(f) 
Compliance with Laws; Consents and Approvals.  The construction of the 
Development will comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of federal, 
state and local governments and agencies and with all applicable directions, rules and regulations 
of the fire marshal, health officer, building inspector and other officers of any such government 
or agency. 
(g) 
Pending Proceedings.  Borrower is not in default under any law or 
regulation or under any order of any court, board, commission or agency whatsoever, and there 
are no claims, actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of Borrower, threatened 
against or affecting Borrower or the Development, at law or in equity, before or by any court, 
board, commission or agency whatsoever which might, if determined adversely to Borrower, 
materially affect Borrower’s ability to repay the Loan or impair the security to be given to the 
City pursuant hereto.  
(h) 
Title to Land.  At the time of recordation of the Deed of Trust, Borrower 
will have good and marketable fee title to the Collateral Property and there will exist thereon or 
with respect thereto no mortgage, lien, pledge or other encumbrance of any character whatsoever 
other than liens for current real property taxes and liens in favor of the City or approved in 
writing by the City.  
(i) 
Financial Statements.  The financial statements of Borrower and other 
financial data and information furnished by Borrower to the City fairly and accurately present the 
information contained therein.  As of the date of this Agreement, there has not been any material 
adverse change in the financial condition of Borrower from that shown by such financial 
statements and other data and information.  
(j) 
Sufficient Funds.  Borrower holds sufficient funds and/or binding 
commitments for sufficient funds to complete the construction of the Development in accordance 
with the terms of this Agreement. 
(k) 
Taxes.  Borrower and its subsidiaries have filed all federal and other 
material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all federal and other material 
149 of 268

--- page 150 ---
24 
660\01\2564992.4 
taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their 
income or the Property otherwise due and payable, except those that are being contested in good 
faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been provided in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  There is no proposed tax assessment 
against Borrower or any of its subsidiaries that could, if made, be reasonably expected to have a 
material adverse effect on the property, liabilities (actual or contingent), operations, condition 
(financial or otherwise) or prospects of Borrower and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or which 
could result in:  (i) a material impairment of the ability of Borrower to perform under any loan 
document to which it is a party; or (ii) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, 
binding effect or enforceability against Borrower of any Loan Document. 
(l) 
Hazardous Materials.  To the best of Borrower’s knowledge, except as 
disclosed in writing by Borrower to the City prior to the  Effective Date:  (i) no Hazardous 
Material has been disposed of, stored on, discharged from, or released to or from, or otherwise 
now exists in, on, under, or around, the Property; (ii)  neither the Property nor Borrower is in 
violation of any Hazardous Materials Law; and (iii) neither the Property nor Borrower is subject 
to any existing, pending or threatened Hazardous Materials Claims.   
 
ARTICLE 5. 
DEFAULT AND REMEDIES  
Section 5.1 
Events of Default. 
Any one or more of the following constitutes an “Event of Default” by Borrower under 
this Agreement: 
(a) 
Failure to Obtain Permit; Failure to Complete Work.  If Borrower fails to 
obtain the necessary permit(s), or Borrower otherwise fails to comply with the requirements of 
Section 2.17. 
(b) 
Failure to Make Payment.  If Borrower fails to make any payment when 
such payment is due pursuant to the Loan Documents and such failure continues for ten (10) 
days after receipt of written notice form the City. 
(c) 
Breach of Covenants.  If Borrower fails to duly perform, comply with, or 
observe any other condition, term, or covenant contained in this Agreement, or in any of the 
other Loan Documents, and Borrower fails to cure such default within thirty (30) days after 
receipt of written notice thereof from the City to Borrower, or if such breach cannot be cured 
within such 30 day period, Borrower shall not be in breach so long as Borrower is diligently 
undertaking to cure such breach and such breach is cured within sixty (60) days; provided, 
however, that if a different period or notice requirement is specified under any other section of 
this Article, the specific provisions shall control.   
(d) 
Default Under Other Loans.  If a default is declared under any other 
financing for the Development by the lender of such financing and such default remains uncured 
following any applicable notice and cure period. 
150 of 268

--- page 151 ---
25 
660\01\2564992.4 
(e) 
Insolvency.  If a court having jurisdiction makes or enters any decree or 
order:  (1) adjudging Borrower to be bankrupt or insolvent; (2) approving as properly filed a 
petition seeking reorganization of Borrower, or seeking any arrangement for Borrower under the 
bankruptcy law or any other applicable debtor’s relief law or statute of the United States or any 
state or other jurisdiction; (3) appointing a receiver, trustee, liquidator, or assignee of Borrower 
in bankruptcy or insolvency or for any of their properties; (4) directing the winding up or 
liquidation of Borrower if any such decree or order described in clauses (1) to (4), inclusive, is 
unstayed or undischarged for a period of ninety (90) calendar days; or (5) Borrower admits in 
writing its inability to pay its debts as they fall due or will have voluntarily submitted to or filed 
a petition seeking any decree or order of the nature described in clauses (1) to (4), inclusive.  The 
occurrence of any of the Events of Default in this paragraph will act to accelerate automatically, 
without the need for any action by the City, the indebtedness evidenced by the Note. 
(f) 
Assignment; Attachment.  If Borrower assigns its assets for the benefit of 
its creditors or suffers a sequestration or attachment of or execution on any substantial part of its 
property, unless the property so assigned, sequestered, attached or executed upon is returned or 
released within ninety (90) calendar days after such event or, if sooner, prior to sale pursuant to 
such sequestration, attachment, or execution.  The occurrence of any of the events of default in 
this paragraph shall act to accelerate automatically, without the need for any action by the City, 
the indebtedness evidenced by the Note. 
(g) 
Suspension; Termination.  If Borrower voluntarily suspends or terminates 
its business. 
(h) 
Liens on Property and the Development.  If any claim of lien (other than 
liens approved in writing by the City) is filed against the Development or any part thereof, or any 
interest or right made appurtenant thereto, or the service of any notice to withhold proceeds of 
the Loan and the continued maintenance of said claim of lien or notice to withhold for a period 
of twenty (20) days, without discharge or satisfaction thereof or provision therefor (including, 
without limitation, the posting of bonds) satisfactory to the City. 
(i) 
Condemnation.  If there is a condemnation, seizure, or appropriation of all 
or the substantial part of the Property and the Development. 
(j) 
Unauthorized Transfer.  If any Transfer occurs other than as permitted 
pursuant to this Agreement. 
(k) 
Representation or Warranty Incorrect.  If any Borrower representation or 
warranty contained in this Agreement, or in any application, financial statement, certificate, or 
report submitted to the City in connection with any of the Loan Documents, proves to have been 
incorrect in any material respect when made. 
Section 5.2 
Remedies. 
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default and until such Event of Default is cured or 
waived, the City is relieved of any obligation to disburse any portion of the Loan.  In addition, 
upon the occurrence of an Event of Default and following the expiration of all applicable notice 
and cure periods the City may proceed with any and all remedies available to it under law, this 
151 of 268

--- page 152 ---
26 
660\01\2564992.4 
Agreement, and the other Loan Documents.  Such remedies include but are not limited to the 
following: 
(a) 
Acceleration of Note.  The City may cause all indebtedness of Borrower to 
the City under this Agreement and the Note, together with any accrued interest thereon, to 
become immediately due and payable.  Borrower waives all right to presentment, demand, 
protest or notice of protest or dishonor.  The City may proceed to enforce payment of the 
indebtedness and to exercise any or all rights afforded to the City as a creditor and secured party 
under the law including the Uniform Commercial Code, including foreclosure under the Deed of 
Trust.  Borrower is liable to pay the City on demand all reasonable expenses, costs and fees 
(including, without limitation, reasonable attorney’s fees and expenses) paid or incurred by the 
City in connection with the collection of the Loan and the preservation, maintenance, protection, 
sale, or other disposition of the security given for the Loan. 
(b) 
Specific Performance.  The City has the right to mandamus or other suit, 
action or proceeding at law or in equity to require Borrower to perform its obligations and 
covenants under the Loan Documents or to enjoin acts on things that may be unlawful or in 
violation of the provisions of the Loan Documents. 
(c) 
Right to Cure at Borrower’s Expense.  The City has the right (but not the 
obligation) to cure any monetary default by Borrower under a loan other than the Loan.  Upon 
demand therefor, Borrower shall reimburse the City for any funds advanced by the City to cure 
such monetary default by Borrower, together with interest thereon from the date of expenditure 
until the date of reimbursement at the Default Rate. 
Section 5.3 
Right of Contest. 
Borrower may contest in good faith any claim, demand, levy, or assessment the assertion 
of which would constitute an Event of Default hereunder.  Any such contest is to be prosecuted 
diligently and in a manner unprejudicial to the City or the rights of the City hereunder. 
Section 5.4 
Remedies Cumulative. 
No right, power, or remedy given to the City by the terms of this Agreement or the other 
Loan Documents is intended to be exclusive of any other right, power, or remedy; and each and 
every such right, power, or remedy is cumulative and in addition to every other right, power, or 
remedy given to the City by the terms of any such instrument, or by any statute or otherwise 
against Borrower and any other person.  Neither the failure nor any delay on the part of the City 
to exercise any such rights and remedies will operate as a waiver thereof, nor does any single or 
partial exercise by the City of any such right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of 
such right or remedy, or any other right or remedy. 
ARTICLE 6. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
Section 6.1 
Relationship of Parties. 
152 of 268

--- page 153 ---
27 
660\01\2564992.4 
Nothing contained in this Agreement is to be interpreted or understood by any of the 
Parties, or by any third persons, as creating the relationship of employer and employee, principal 
and agent, limited or general partnership, or joint venture between the City and Borrower or its 
agents, employees or contractors, and Borrower will at all times be deemed an independent 
contractor and to be wholly responsible for the manner in which it or its agents, or both, perform 
the services required of it by the terms of this Agreement.  Borrower has and retains the right to 
exercise full control of employment, direction, compensation, and discharge of all persons 
assisting in the performance of services under the Agreement.  In regards to the demolition or 
construction work, and operation of the Development, Borrower is solely responsible for all 
matters relating to payment of its employees, including compliance with Social Security, 
withholding, and all other laws and regulations governing such matters, and must include 
requirements in each contract that contractors are solely responsible for similar matters relating 
to their employees.  Borrower is solely responsible for its own acts and those of its agents and 
employees. 
Section 6.2 
No Claims. 
Nothing contained in this Agreement creates or justifies any claim against the City by any 
person that Borrower may have employed or with whom Borrower may have contracted relative 
to the purchase of materials, supplies or equipment, or the furnishing or the performance of any 
work or services with respect to the work, or the operation of the Development, and Borrower 
shall include similar requirements in any contracts entered into for the construction or operation 
of the Development. 
Section 6.3 
Amendments. 
No alteration or variation of the terms of this Agreement is valid unless made in writing 
by the Parties. 
Section 6.4 
Indemnification. 
Borrower shall indemnify, defend and hold the City and its Council members, directors, 
officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns harmless against any and all claims, suits, 
actions, losses and liability of every kind, nature and description made against it and expenses 
(including reasonable attorneys’ fees) which arise out of or in connection with this Agreement, 
including but not limited to the construction, marketing and operation of the Development, 
except to the extent such claim arises from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the 
City, its agents, and its employees.  The provisions of this Section will survive the expiration of 
the Term and the reconveyance of the Deed of Trust. 
Section 6.5 
Non-Liability of City Officials, Employees and Agents. 
No member, official, employee or agent of the City is personally liable to Borrower in the 
event of any default or breach of this Agreement by the City or for any amount that may become 
due from the City pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
 
153 of 268

--- page 154 ---
28 
660\01\2564992.4 
Section 6.6 
No Third Party Beneficiaries. 
There are no third party beneficiaries to this Agreement. 
Section 6.7 
Discretion Retained By City. 
The City’s execution of this Agreement in no way limits any discretion the City may 
have in the permit and approval process related to the construction of the Development. 
Section 6.8 
Notices, Demands and Communications. 
Formal notices, demands and communications between the City and the Borrower shall 
be sufficiently given if, and shall not be deemed given unless, (a) dispatched by certified mail, 
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or (b) sent by express delivery or overnight courier 
service, or (c) sent via email to the email address set forth below, with a copy of such notice 
concurrently sent by either of the methods set forth in the preceding clauses (a) or (b), to the 
office of the Parties shown as follows, or such other address as the Parties may designate in 
writing from time to time: 
City: 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Attn:  Community Development Department 
Email:  childcarefacilitiesfund@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
Borrower: 
Mighty Tiger Preschool, LLC 
508 Davey Glen Rd 
Belmont, CA 94002 
 
Such written notices, demands and communications may be sent in the same manner to 
such other addresses as the affected party may from time to time designate by mail as provided 
in this Section.  Receipt will be deemed to have occurred on the date shown on a written receipt 
as the date of delivery or refusal of delivery (or attempted delivery if undeliverable). 
Section 6.9 
Applicable Law. 
This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of California. 
Section 6.10 Parties Bound. 
Except as otherwise limited herein, this Agreement binds and inures to the benefit of the 
parties and their heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors, and assigns.  
This Agreement is intended to run with the land and to bind Borrower and its successors and 
assigns in the Property and the Development for the entire Term, and the benefit hereof is to 
inure to the benefit of the City and its successors and assigns. 
 
 
154 of 268

--- page 155 ---
29 
660\01\2564992.4 
Section 6.11 Attorneys’ Fees. 
If any lawsuit is commenced to enforce any of the terms of this Agreement, the prevailing 
party will have the right to recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of suit from the other 
party. 
Section 6.12 Severability. 
If any term of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, 
void or unenforceable, the remainder of the provisions will continue in full force and effect 
unless the rights and obligations of the parties have been materially altered or abridged by such 
invalidation, voiding or unenforceability. 
Section 6.13 Force Majeure. 
In addition to specific provisions of this Agreement, performance by either party will not 
be deemed to be in default where delays or defaults are due to war, insurrection, strikes, lock-
outs, riots, floods, earthquakes, fires, quarantine restrictions, freight embargoes, lack of 
transportation, or court order.  An extension of time for any cause will be deemed granted if 
notice by the party claiming such extension is sent to the other within ten (10) days from the 
commencement of the cause and such extension of time is not rejected in writing by the other 
party within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice.  In no event will the City be required to 
agree to cumulative delays in excess of one hundred eighty (180) days. 
Section 6.14 City Approval. 
The City has authorized the City Manager, or his or her designee, to execute the Loan 
Documents and deliver such approvals or consents as are required by this Agreement, and to 
execute estoppel certificates concerning the status of the Loan and the existence of Borrower 
defaults under the Loan Documents. 
Section 6.15 Waivers. 
Any waiver by the City of any obligation or condition in this Agreement must be in 
writing.  No waiver will be implied from any delay or failure by the City to take action on any 
breach or default of Borrower or to pursue any remedy allowed under this Agreement or 
applicable law.  Any extension of time granted to Borrower to perform any obligation under this 
Agreement does not operate as a waiver or release from any of its obligations under this 
Agreement.  Consent by the City to any act or omission by Borrower may not be construed to be 
consent to any other or subsequent act or omission or to waive the requirement for the City’s 
written consent to future waivers. 
Section 6.16 Title of Parts and Sections. 
Any titles of the sections or subsections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience of 
reference only and are to be disregarded in interpreting any part of the Agreement’s provisions.  
Section 6.17 Entire Understanding of the Parties. 
155 of 268

--- page 156 ---
30 
660\01\2564992.4 
The Loan Documents constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the 
Loan.  This Agreement shall not be construed as if it had been prepared by one of the Parties, but 
rather as if both Parties had prepared it.  The parties have read and reviewed this Agreement and 
agree that any rule of construction to the effect that ambiguities are to be resolved against the 
drafting party (including but not limited to Civil Code Section 1654 as may be amended from 
time to time, or any other state law, or common law principle) shall not apply to the 
interpretation of this Agreement. 
Section 6.18 Multiple Originals; Counterpart. 
This Agreement may be executed in multiple originals, each of which is deemed to be an 
original, and may be signed in counterparts. 
 
 
 
Remainder of Page Left Intentionally Blank 
156 of 268

--- page 157 ---
A-1 
660\01\2564992.4 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by the Parties as of the 
Effective Date. 
 
 
 
 
CITY: 
CITY OF SAN MATEO,  
a California municipal corporation 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
Name: Alex Khojikian 
 
 
 
Its: 
City Manager 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
CHILD CARE FACILITATOR: 
MIGHTY TIGER PRESCHOOL,  
a California Limited Liability Company 
 
By: 
 
 
By: 
 
Name: 
Mazarin Vakharia 
 
Name: Geoffrey K. Choy 
Its: 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
Its: 
LLC Member 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
Name: Ruth-Heidi Choy 
 
 
 
Its: 
LLC Member 
 
 
 
 
 
 
157 of 268

--- page 158 ---
A-2 
660\01\2564992.4 
EXHIBIT A 
 
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPERTY 
 
2575 Flores Street, Unit #1, San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
BEGINING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE EASTERLY LINE OF FLORES STREET WITH 
THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF A 15 FOOT EASEMENT FOR STREET OR TRAVEL 
PURPOSES AND PUBLIC UTILITIES, AS GRANTED BY DEED OF DEDICATION OF 
EASEMENT FROM STADER, ALSO KNOWN AS FRED WILLIAM STADER, TO THE CITY OF 
SAN MATEO, A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, DATED AUGUST 7,1950 AND RECORDED 
NOVEMBER 13,1950 IN BOOK 1974 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS AT PAGE 535, RECORDS OF 
SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA; THENCE FROM SAID POINT OF BEGINNING, ALONG 
SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE, NORTH 70’ 44' EAST 167.87 FEET; THENCE LEAVING SAID 
NORTHWESTERLY LINE, NORTH 27° 41' WEST 40.44 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 70° 44' 
WEST 151,99 FEET TO THE EASTERLY LINE OF FLORES STREET AS ABOVE 
MENTIONED; THENCE ALONG SAID EASTERLY LINE SOUTH 1’ 58’ EAST 3.07 FEET AND 
ALONG A CURVE TO THE LEFT, WITH A RADIUS OF 305.00 FEET, A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 
7° 10' 22", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 38.18 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING. 
 
 
 
158 of 268

--- page 159 ---
A-3 
660\01\2564992.4 
 
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF THE COLLATERAL PROPERTY 
 
 
115 Agustin Narvaez Street #4, San Jose, CA 95136 
 
 
159 of 268

--- page 160 ---
ORDER NO. : 0360027736

EXHIBIT A

The land referred to is situated in the County of Santa Clara, City of San Jose, State of
California, and is described as follows:

Parcel One (Unit):

Unit 17, of Building Common Area Parcel 39, of Lot 59, as shown on the Final Map of Tract
10368, filed for record on June 20, 2018, in Book 915 of Maps, at Pages 4 through 17, inclusive,
in the Official Records of the County of Santa Clara, State of California ("Map"), as such Building
Common Area Parcel and Unit are shown on the Condominium Plan recorded February 25,
2019, as Document No. 24122138, of Official Records together with any amendments or
modifications, thereto ("Condominium Plan") and described and defined in the Declaration of
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions of Communications Hill, recorded April 19, 2016, as
Document No. 23280806, of Official Records together with any amendments, modifications, or
annexations thereto, as may occur from time to time ("Declaration"), in the Official Records of
the County of Santa Clara, State of California.

Parcel Two (Undivided Interest in Building Common Area):

An undivided one-seventh (1/7th) interest as Tenant in Common in and to the Building
Common Area (as that term is defined in the Declaration) contained in the Building Common
Area Parcel in which the Owner's Unit described in Parcel One, above, is situated, and as shown
on the Condominium Plan.

(A) Excepting therefrom, all numbered Condominium Units shown on the Condominium Plan
and described in the Declaration and in the Declaration of Annexation;

(B) Reserving therefrom unto Grantor, exclusive use Common Areas for the possession, use,
and enjoyment of those areas designated on the Condominium Plan and defined in the
Declaration as Decks, Patios, and Porches, together with the right to subsequently grant and
convey such easements;

(C) Further reserving therefrom unto the Grantor, non-exclusive easements for use,
enjoyment, ingress, egress, and support in and to the Building Common Area, as shown on the
Condominium Plan and described in the Declaration and in the Declaration of Annexation,
together with the right to subsequently grant and convey such easements; and

(D) Further reserving therefrom unto Grantor, all easements as provided for in the Declaration
and in the Declaration of Annexation, together with the right to subsequently grant and convey
such easements.

Parcel Three (Non-Exclusive Easements):

Non-exclusive easements for use, enjoyment, ingress, egress, and support in and to the
Building Common Area and the Project Common Area, as shown on the Condominium Plan and

Page 1 of 2

A-4
660\01\2564992.4

160 of 268


--- page 161 ---
described in the Declaration and in the Declaration of Annexation, for the benefit of Parcel One,
above.

Parcel Four (Exclusive Use Common Area):

Exclusive easement appurtenant to Parcel One above, for the possession, use and enjoyment of
the Deck shown as "D" and the corresponding Unit Number on the Plan, as said easement is
provided for in the Declaration.

APN: 455-98-020

A-5
660\01\2564992.4

161 of 268


--- page 162 ---
B-1 
660\01\2564992.4 
EXHIBIT B 
 
APPROVED DEVELOPMENT BUDGET 
 
162 of 268

--- page 163 ---
C-1 
660\01\2564992.4 
EXHIBIT C 
 
PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
1. Child Care Spaces.  Borrower shall retain and make available a total of [written 
number] (#) licensed child care spaces. Exception only accepted if Borrower is unable to 
provide a sufficient number of qualified staff to meet required ratios for a period of time 
not exceeding ninety (90) days. 
2. Affordable Child Care Spaces.  Borrower shall provide [written number] (#) of affordable 
spaces available to households who do not exceed 80% Area Median Income (AMI) as is 
annually published by the City.  This shall include the reporting of the following documented 
data: 1) number of households, 2) annual household income, 3) amount of child care tuition 
charged, and 4) market rate tuition. 
3. Licensing.  Borrower shall provide third-party confirmation of current facility licensing.  
4. Financial Reports.  Borrower shall submit annual financial documents for the facility 
operation, either organizational audits or tax records. 
 
 
 
163 of 268

--- page 164 ---
D–1 
660\01\2564992.4 
EXHIBIT D 
 
FORM OF ANNUAL REPORT 
This document will be provided to borrowers in Word format to complete and submit.  
This is an image of the document template. 
164 of 268

--- page 165 ---
Contact Information

If you need to provide any changes for the contacts that follow, do that here. If not, you can select this
placeholder (arrow to the left of the section title} and press Delete to remove it.

Borrower Primary Contact Child Care Facility Operator Contact
Office: Office Phone Office: Office Phone

Mobile: Cell Phone Mobile: Cell Phone

Email: Email Email: Email

Required Documentation

Please attach the following documents:

1. Third-party confirmation of current facility licensing.
2. Annual financial documents for the facility operation, either organizational audits or tax records.

Program Narrative
Please provide a brief narrative summarizing the annual efforts, highlights, and challenges in achievement of

goals that assure a high-quality program and includes a description of professional development and/or
continuing education for staff that support quality and continuous improvement.

CITY OF SAN MATEO — CHILD CARE LOAN ANNUAL REPORT v4

660\01\2564992.4

165 of 268


--- page 166 ---
1 
660\01\2572024.1 
 
Exhibit 2 
PROMISSORY NOTE 
(San Mateo-Child Care Loan Program) 
 
 
$430,000 
San Mateo, California 
 
____________________, 20____ 
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, MIGHTY TIGER PRESCHOOL, a California Limited 
Liability Company ("Borrower"), promises to pay to the City of San Mateo, a California 
municipal corporation ("Holder"), the principal sum of four hundred thirty thousand Dollars 
($430,000) plus interest thereon pursuant to Section 2 below. All capitalized terms used but not 
defined in this Promissory Note (the "Note") have the meanings set forth in the Loan Agreement 
(as defined below).    
  
1. 
Borrower's Obligation.  This Note evidences the Borrower's obligation to pay the 
Holder the principal amount of four hundred thirty thousand Dollars ($430,000) loaned to 
Borrower by Holder pursuant to that certain Loan Agreement between Borrower and Holder of 
even date herewith (the "Loan Agreement").  
 
2. 
Interest.  Except as otherwise set forth herein, this Note does not bear interest. If a 
Default occurs, interest on the principal balance will begin to accrue as of the date of Default 
(following expiration of applicable notice and cure periods) and continuing until such time as the 
Loan funds are repaid in full or the Default is cured, at which time the accrued interest shall be 
automatically forgiven at the default rate of the lesser of ten percent (10%), compounded 
annually, or the highest rate permitted by law.  
 
3. 
Term and Repayment Requirements.  Annual forgiveness and payments due 
under this Note, if any, are due in accordance with this Note and as set forth in Section 2.7 of the 
Loan Agreement.  
 
4. 
No Assumption.  This Note is not assumable by the successors and assigns of 
Borrower without the prior written consent of the Holder, except as may be otherwise set forth in 
the Loan Agreement. 
 
5. 
Security.  This Note is secured by that certain Short Form Deed of Trust and 
Assignment of Rents (the "Deed of Trust") wherein the Borrower is the trustor and the Holder is 
the beneficiary.  
 
6. 
Terms of Payment. 
 
(1) 
 
Borrower shall make all payments due under this Note in currency 
of the United States of America to Holder at the City of San Mateo, 330 W. 20th Avenue, San 
Mateo, CA 94403, Attn:  Community Development Department, or such other place as Holder 
may from time to time designate.  
 
166 of 268

--- page 167 ---
2 
660\01\2572024.1 
 
(a) 
All payments on this Note are without expense to Holder.  Borrower shall 
pay all costs and expenses, including reconveyance fees and reasonable attorney's fees of Holder, 
incurred in connection with the payment of this Note and the release of any security hereof. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Note, or any instrument 
securing the obligations of Borrower under this Note, if, for any reason whatsoever, the payment 
of any sums by Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Note would result in the payment of 
interest that exceeds the amount that Holder may legally charge under the laws of the State of 
California, then the amount by which payments exceed the lawful interest rate will automatically 
be deducted from the principal balance owing on this Note, so that in no event is Borrower 
obligated under the terms of this Note to pay any interest that would exceed the lawful rate. 
 
(c) 
The obligations of Borrower under this Note are absolute and Borrower 
waives any and all rights to offset, deduct or withhold any payments or charges due under this 
Note for any reason whatsoever. 
 
(d) 
Upon recordation of the Deed of Trust, this Note will be nonrecourse to 
the Borrower, pursuant to and except as provided in Section 2.8 of the Loan Agreement.   
 
7. 
Default. 
 
(a) 
The entire unpaid principal balance, together with all interest thereon, and 
together with all other sums payable under this Note, shall at the option of the Holder become 
immediately due and payable without further demand, upon occurrence of: 
 
(i) 
Any failure of Borrower to pay, in full, any payment required 
under this Note within five (5) days after receipt of written notice that such payment is due; 
 
(ii) 
Any failure in the performance by the Borrower of any other term, 
condition, provision or covenant set forth in this Note subject to the notice and cure period set 
forth in the Loan Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
The occurrence of any Default under any of the Loan Documents, 
or other instrument securing the obligations of the Borrower under this Note or under any other 
promissory notes hereafter issued by the Borrower to the Holder pursuant to the Loan Agreement 
or the Deed of Trust, subject to notice and cure periods, if any, set forth therein. 
 
(b) 
The Holder's failure to exercise the remedy set forth in Subsection 7(a) 
above or any other remedy provided by law upon the occurrence of a default will not constitute a 
waiver of the right to exercise any remedy at any subsequent time in respect to the same or any 
other default.  The acceptance by Holder hereof of any payment which is less than the total of all 
amounts due and payable at the time of such payment will not constitute a waiver of the right to 
exercise any of the foregoing remedies or options at that time or at any subsequent time, or 
nullify any prior exercise of any such remedy or option, without the express consent of the 
Holder, except as and to the extent otherwise provided by law.  
 
167 of 268

--- page 168 ---
3 
660\01\2572024.1 
 
8. 
Waivers. 
 
(a) 
Borrower hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand, and 
notice of protest, notice of demand, notice of dishonor and notice of non-payment of this Note.  
Borrower expressly agrees that this Note or any payment hereunder may be extended from time 
to time, and that Holder may accept further security or release any security for this Note, all 
without in any way affecting the liability of Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any extension of time for payment of this Note or any installment hereof 
made by agreement of Holder with any person now or hereafter liable for payment of this Note 
must not operate to release, discharge, modify, change or affect the original liability of Borrower 
under this Note, either in whole or in part. 
 
9. 
Miscellaneous Provisions. 
 
(a) 
All notices to Holder or Borrower are to be given in the manner and at the 
addresses set forth in the Loan Agreement, or to such addresses as Holder and Borrower may 
therein designate. 
 
(b) 
Borrower promises to pay all costs and expenses, including reasonable 
attorney's fees, incurred by Holder in the enforcement of the provisions of this Note, regardless 
of whether suit is filed to seek enforcement. 
 
(c) 
This Note may not be changed orally, but only by an agreement in writing 
signed by the party against whom enforcement of any waiver, change, modification or discharge 
is sought. 
 
(d) 
This Note is governed by the laws of the State of California. 
 
(e) 
The times for the performance of any obligations hereunder are to be 
strictly construed, time being of the essence. 
 
(f) 
The Loan Documents, of which this Note is a part, contain the entire 
agreement between the parties as to the Loan.  This Note may not be modified except upon the 
written consent of the parties. 
 
Remainder of Page Left Intentionally Blank 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
168 of 268

--- page 169 ---
4 
660\01\2572024.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Promissory Note is executed by Borrower and is 
effective as of the date first written above. 
 
 
BORROWER: 
 
MIGHTY TIGER PRESCHOOL,  
a California Limited Liability Company 
 
By: 
 
Name: 
Geoffrey K. Choy 
Its: 
LLC Member 
 
 
By: 
 
Name: 
Ruth-Heidi Choy 
Its: 
LLC Member 
 
 
 
169 of 268

--- page 170 ---
660\01\2574271.1 
1
 
 Exhibit 3
 
 
 
RECORDING REQUESTED BY 
AND WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO: 
 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
Attention:  Community Development Department 
 
 
NO FEE FOR RECORDING PURSUANT  
TO GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 27383 
 
SPACE ABOVE THIS LINE FOR RECORDER'S USE 
 
ARTICLE 7.SHORT FORM DEED OF TRUST AND ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS 
 
 
This Deed of Trust, made as of _________________, 20___, between, Eddy K. Choy and Maria Y. 
Choy and Geoffrey Kamen Choy, herein called Trustor, 
whose address is: 
508 DAVEY GLEN RD, 
BELMONT, CA 94002 
 
 
 
 
 
First American Title Company, a California corporation, herein called Trustee, and the City of San 
Mateo, a California municipal corporation, herein called Beneficiary, 
 
Witnesseth:  That Trustor IRREVOCABLY GRANTS, TRANSFERS AND ASSIGNS to TRUSTEE 
IN TRUST, WITH POWER OF SALE, That property located at 115 Agustin Narvaez Street #4, 
San Jose, California, 95136, described as follows:   
 
SEE EXHIBIT A, incorporated herein by this reference 
 
 
TOGETHER WITH the rents, issues and profits thereof, SUBJECT, HOWEVER, to the right, power 
and authority given to and conferred upon Beneficiary by paragraph (10) of the provisions 
incorporated herein by reference to collect and apply such rents, issues and profits. 
 
For the Purpose of Securing: 
 
1.  Performance of each agreement of Trustor incorporated by reference or contained herein.  2.  
Payment of the indebtedness evidenced by one promissory note of even date herewith, and any 
170 of 268

--- page 171 ---
660\01\2574271.1 
2
extension or renewal thereof, in the principal sum of up to four hundred thirty thousand Dollars 
($430,000) executed by Trustor in favor of Beneficiary or order.  3.  Payment of such further sums 
as the then record owner of said property hereafter may borrow from Beneficiary, when evidenced 
by another note (or notes) reciting it is so secured. 
To Protect the Security of This Deed of Trust, Trustor Agrees:  By the execution and delivery of 
this Deed of Trust and the note secured hereby, including the provisions set forth EXHIBIT B of this 
Deed of Trust, which are incorporated by this reference, and the provisions (1) to (14) inclusive, of 
the fictitious deed of trust recorded in San Mateo County, in the book and at the page of Official 
Records in the office of the county recorder of the county where said property is located, noted 
below opposite the name of the county, viz.:  
(a) 
 
(b) 
COU
NTY BOOK PAGE 
Alameda 
435 
684 
Alpine 
1 
250 
Amador 
104 
348 
Butte 
1145 
1 
Calaveras 145 
152 
(1) 
Colusa 
296
 
617 
Contra Costa3978 47 
Del Norte 
78 
414 
El Dorado 568 
456 
Fresno 
4626 
572 
(c) 
 
(d) 
C
OUNTY 
BOOK PAGE 
(1) 
Kings 
792 
833 
(2) 
Lake 
362 
39 
Lassen 
171 471 
Los AngelesT2055
 
899 
(3) 
Madera 
810 
170 
Marin 
1508 339 
Mariposa 
77 292 
(e) 
(f) COUNTY
 
BOOK PAGE 
Placer 
895 301 
Plumas 
151 
5 
(1) Ri
verside 
3005 
523 
Sacramento4331 62 
San Benito 271 383 
San Bernardino 5567
 
61 
San FranciscoA332
 
905 
San Joaquin2470311 
San Luis Obispo1151
(g) 
 
(h) 
CO
UNTY 
BOOK PAGE 
Sierra 
29 335 
Siskiyou 468 181 
Solano 1105 182 
Sonoma 1851 689 
Stanislaus1715 456 
Sutter 
572 297 
Tehama 401 289 
Trinity 
93 366 
Tulare 
2294 275 
Tuolumne 135 
47 
Ventura 2062 386 
Yolo 
653 245 
(which provisions, identical in all counties, are printed on attached herewith) hereby are adopted 
and incorporated herein and made a part hereof as fully as though set forth herein at length; that 
Trustor will observe and perform said provisions; and that the references to property, obligations 
and parties in said provisions shall be construed to refer to the property, obligations, and parties set 
forth in this Deed of Trust. 
171 of 268

--- page 172 ---
660\01\2574271.1 
3
 
TRUSTOR: 
Eddy K. Choy and Maria Y. Choy, 
husband and wife and Geoffrey Kamen 
Choy, a single man as joint tenants  
By: 
 
Name: 
Eddy K. Choy  
Its: 
Owner 
 
 
By: 
 
Name: 
Maria Y. Choy 
Its: 
Owner 
 
 
By: 
 
Name: 
Geoffrey Kamen Choy 
Its: 
Owner 
 
172 of 268

--- page 173 ---
660\01\2574271.1 
 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
) 
 
) 
COUNTY OF __________________ 
) 
 
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, 
personally appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the 
basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within 
instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their 
authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), 
or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument. 
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
 
______________________________________ 
  Name:   ______________________________ 
 
Notary Public 
 
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document. 
173 of 268

--- page 174 ---
A-1 
660\01\2574271.1 
Exhibit A 
Property Description 
 
 
174 of 268

--- page 175 ---
ORDER NO. : 0360027736

EXHIBIT A

The land referred to is situated in the County of Santa Clara, City of San Jose, State of
California, and is described as follows:

Parcel One (Unit):

Unit 17, of Building Common Area Parcel 39, of Lot 59, as shown on the Final Map of Tract
10368, filed for record on June 20, 2018, in Book 915 of Maps, at Pages 4 through 17, inclusive,
in the Official Records of the County of Santa Clara, State of Califormia ("Map"), as such Building
Common Area Parcel and Unit are shown on the Condominium Plan recorded February 25,
2019, as Document No. 24122138, of Official Records together with any amendments or
modifications, thereto (“Condominium Plan") and described and defined in the Declaration of

Conditions and Restrictions of Communications Hill, recorded April 19, 2016, as
Document No. 23280806, of Official Records together with any amendments, modifications, or
annexations thereto, as may occur from time to time ("Declaration"), in the Official Records of
the County of Santa Clara, State of California.

Parcel Two (Undivided Interest in Building Common Area):

An undivided one-seventh (1/7th) interest as Tenant in Common in and to the Building
Common Area (as that term is defined in the Declaration) contained in the Building Common
Area Parcel in which the Owner's Unit described in Parcel One, above, is situated, and as shown
on the Condominium Plan.

(A) Excepting therefrom, all numbered Condominium Units shown on the Condominium Plan
and described in the Declaration and in the Declaration of Annexation;

(B) Reserving therefrom unto Grantor, exclusive use Common Areas for the possession, use,
and enjoyment of those areas designated on the Condominium Plan and defined in the
Declaration as Decks, Patios, and Porches, together with the right to subsequently grant and
convey such easements;

(C) Further reserving therefrom unto the Grantor, non-exclusive easements for use,
enjoyment, ingress, egress, and support in and to the Building Common Area, as shown on the
Condominium Plan and described in the Declaration and in the Declaration of Annexation,
together with the right to subsequently grant and convey such easements; and

(DB) Further reserving therefrom unto Grantor, all easements as provided for in the Declaration
and in the Declaration of Annexation, together with the right to subsequently grant and convey
such easements.

Parcel Three (Non-Exclusive Easements):

Non-exclusive easements for use, enjoyment, ingress, egress, and support in and to the
Building Common Area and the Project Common Area, as shown on the Condominium Plan and

Page 1 of 2

A-2

660\01\2574271.1

175 of 268


--- page 176 ---
described in the Declaration and in the Dediaration of Annexation, for the benefit of Parcel One,
above.

Parcel Four (Exdusive Use Common Area):

Exclusive easement appurtenant to Parcel One above, for the possession, use and enjoyment of
the Deck shown as "D" and the corresponding Unit Number on the Plan, as said easement is
provided for in the Declaration.

APN: 455-98-020

A-3

660\01\2574271.1

176 of 268


--- page 177 ---
660\01\2574271.1 
TO BE REMOVED PRIOR TO RECORDATION: 
 
 
 
177 of 268

--- page 178 ---
660\01\2574271.1

SHORT FORM DEED OF TRUST AND ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS (INDIVIDUAL)

The following is a copy of provisions (1) to (14), inclusive, of the fictitious deed of trust, recorded in each county in California, as stated in the
foregoing Deed of Trust and incorporated by reference in said Deed of Trust as being a part thereof as if set forth at length therein.
To Protect the Security of This Deed of Trust, Trustor Agrees:

(1) To keep said property in good condition and repair, not to remove or demolish any building thereon; to complete or restore promptly in good
and workmanlike manner any building which may be constructed, damaged or destroyed thereon and to pay when due all claims for labor performed and
materials furnished therefor; to comply with all laws affecting said property or requiring any alterations or improvements to be made thereon: not to
commit or permit waste thereof; not to commit, suffer or permit any act upon said property in violation of law; to cultivate, irrigate, fertilize, prune and do
all other acts which from the character or use of said property may be reasonably necessary, the specific enumerations herein not excluding the general.

(2) To provide, maintain and deliver to Beneficiary fire insurance satisfactory to and with loss payable to Beneficiary. The amount collected under
any fire or other insurance policy may be applied by Beneficiary upon any indebtedness secured hereby and in such order as Beneficiary may determine,
or at option of Beneficiary the entire amount so collected or any part thereof may be released to Trustor. Such application or release shall not cure or
waive any default hereunder or invalidated any act done pursuant to such notice.

(3) To appear in and defend any action or proceeding purporting to affect the security hereof or the rights or powers of Beneficiary or Trustee; and
to pay all costs and expenses, including cost of evidence of title and attorney's fees in a reasonable sum, in any such actions or proceeding in which
Beneficiary or Trustee may appear, and in any suit brought by Beneficiary to foreclose this Deed.

(4) To pay: at least ten days before delinquency all taxes and assessments affecting said property, including assessments on appurtenant water

stock; when due, all encumbrances, charges and liens with interest, on said property or any part thereof, which appear to be prior or superior hereto; all
costs, fees and expenses of this Trust.
Should Trustor fail to make any payment or to do any act as herein provided, the Beneficiary or Trustee, but without obligation so to do and without
notice to or demand upon Trustor and without releasing Trustor from any obligation hereof, may: make or do the same in such manner and to such extent
as either may deem necessary to protect the security hereof, Beneficiary or Trustee being authorized to enter upon said property for such purposes; appear
in and defend any action or proceeding purporting to affect the security hereof or the rights or powers of Beneficiary or Trustee; pay, purchase, contest or
compromise any encumbrance, charge or lien which in the judgment of either appears to be prior to or superior hereto; and, in exercising any such powers,
pay necessary expenses, employ counsel and pay his reasonable fees.

(5) To pay immediately and without demand all sums so expended by Beneficiary or Trustee, with interest from date of expenditure at amount
allowed by law in effect at the date hereof, and to pay for any statement provided for by law in effect at the date hereof regarding the obligation secured
hereby any amount demanded by the Beneficiary not to exceed the maximum allowed by law at the time when said statement is demanded.

That any award of damages in connection with any condemnation for public use or injury to said property or any part thereof is hereby assigned and shall
be paid to Beneficiary who may apply or release such moneys received by him/her/them in the same manner and with the same effect as above provided
for disposition of proceeds of fire or other insurance.

(6) That any award of damages in connection with any condemnation for public use or injury to said property or any part thereof is hereby assigned
and shall be paid to Beneficiary who may apply or release such moneys received by him/her them in the same manner and with the same effect as above
provided for disposition of proceeds of fire or other insurance.

(7) That by accepting payment of any sum secured hereby after its due date, beneficiary does not waive his right either to require prompt payment
when due all other sums so secured or to declare default for failure so to pay.

(8) That at any time or from time to time, without liability therefor and without notice, upon written request of Beneficiary and presentation of this
Deed and said Note for endorsement, and without affecting the personal liability of any person for payment of the indebtedness secured hereby, Trustee
may; reconvey any part of said property, consent to the making of any map or plat thereof; join in granting any easement thereon, or join in any extension
agreement or any agreement subordinating the lien or charge hereof.

(9) That upon written request of Beneficiary stating that all sums secured hereby have been paid, and upon surrender of this Deed and said Note to
Trustee for cancellation and retention and upon payment of its fees, Trustee shall reconvey, without warranty, the property then held hereunder. The
recitals in such reconveyance of any matters or facts shall be conclusive proof of the truthfulness thereof. The grantee in such reconveyance may be
described as "the person or persons legally entitled thereto.” Five years after issuance of such full reconveyance, Trustee may destroy this document
(unless directed in such request to retain it).

(10) That as additional security, Trustor hereby gives to and confers upon Beneficiary the right, power and authority, during the continuance of
these Trusts, to collect the rents, issues and profits of said property, reserving unto Trustor the right, prior to any default by Trustor in payment of any
indebtedness secured hereby or in performance of any agreement hereunder, to collect and retain such rents, issues and profits as they become due and
payable. Upon any such default, Beneficiary may at any time without notice, either in person, by agent, or by a receiver to be appointed by a court, and
without regard to adequacy of any security for the indebtedness hereby secured enter upon and take possession of said property or any part thereof, in
his/her/their own name sue for or otherwise collect such rents, issues and profits, including those past due and unpaid, and apply the same, less costs and
expenses of operation and collection, including reasonable attorney's fees, upon any indebtedness secured hereby, and in such order as Beneficiary may
determine. The entering upon and taking possession of said property, the collection of such rents issues and profits and the application thereof as
aforesaid, shall not cure or waive any default or notice of default hereunder or invalidate any act done pursuant to such notice.

(11) That upon default by trustor in payment of any indebtedness secured hereby or in performance of any agreement hereunder, Beneficiary may
declare all sums secured hereby immediately due and payable by delivery to Trustee of written declaration of default and demand for sale and of written
notice of default and of election to cause to be sold said property, which notice Trustee shall cause to be filed for record. Beneficiary also shall deposit
with Trustee this Deed, said Note and all documents evidencing expenditures secured hereby.

After the lapse of such time as may then be required by law following the recordation of said notice of default, and notice of sale having been given
as then required by law, Trustee, without demand on Trustor, shall sell said property at the time and place fixed by it in said notice of sale, either as a
whole or in separate parcels, and in such order as it may determine, at public auction to the highest bidder for cash in lawful money of the United States,
payable at time of sale. Trustee may postpone sale of all or any portion of said property by public announcement at such time and place of sale and from
time to time thereafter may postpone such sale by public announcement at the time fixed by the preceding postponement. Trustee shall deliver to such
purchaser its deed conveying the property so sold, but without any covenant or warranty, express or implied. The recitals in such deed of any matters of
facts shall be conclusive proof of the truthfulness thereof. Any person, including Trustor, Trustee, or Beneficiary as hereinafter defined, may purchase at
such sale.

After deducting all costs, fees and expenses of Trustee and of this Trust, including cost of evidence of title in connection with sale, Trustee shall
apply the proceeds of sale to payment of: all sums expended under the terms hereof, not the repaid, with accrued interest at the amount allowed by law in
effect at the date hereof; all other sums then secured hereby; and the remainder, if any, to the person or persons legally entitled thereto.

(12) Beneficiary, or any successor in ownership of any indebtedness secured hereby, may from time to time, by instrument in writing, substitute a
successor or successors to any Trustee named herein or acting hereunder, which instrument executed by the Beneficiary and duly acknowledged and
recorded in the office of the recorder of the county or counties where said property is situated, shall be conclusive proof of proper substitution of such
successor Trustee or Trustees, who shall, without conveyance from the Trustee predecessor, succeed to all its title, estate, rights, powers and duties. Said
instrument must contain the name of the original Trustor, Trustee and Beneficiary hereunder, the book and page where this Deed is recorded and the name
and address of the new Trustee.

(13) That this Deed applies to inures to the benefit of, and binds all parties hereto, their heirs, legatees, devisees, administrators, executors,
successors and assigns. The term Beneficiary shall mean the owner and holder, including pledgees, of the Note secured hereby, whether or not named as
Beneficiary herein. In this Deed, whenever the context so requires, the masculine gender includes the feminine and/or neuter, and the singular number
includes the plural.

(14) That trustee accepts this Trust when this Deed, duly executed and acknowledged, is made a public record as provided by law. Trustee is not
obligated to notify any party hereto of pending sale under any other Deed of Trust or of any action or proceeding in which Trustor, Beneficiary or Trustee
shall be a party unless brought by Trustee.

178 of 268


--- page 179 ---
4870-5435-6876v1
1 
RECORDING REQUESTED BY 
AND WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO: 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
Attention:  Community Development Department 
NO FEE FOR RECORDING PURSUANT  
TO GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 27383 
AGREEMENT CONTAINING COVENANTS AFFECTING REAL PROPERTY 
(Child Care Loan Program)  
This Agreement Containing Covenants Affecting Real Property (this "Agreement") is 
made and entered into as of _________________, 20___ (the "Effective Date"), by and between 
the City of San Mateo, a California municipal corporation (the "City"), MIGHTY TIGER 
PRESCHOOL, LLC a California Limited Liability Company, and its successors or assigns 
(collectively, the “Child Care Operator”), and CBR Flores LLC, a California Limited 
Liability Company (the “Owner”), with reference to the following facts, purposes, and 
understandings. 
RECITALS 
A.
The Child Care Operator will operate a child care facility on that certain real
property located at 2575 Flores St, Suite 1, San Mateo, CA 94403 in the City of San Mateo, 
County of San Mateo, State of California, as more particularly described in Exhibit A and also 
known by Assessor Parcel Number 039-371-370 (the “Child Care Facility” as further defined 
below). 
B.
Owner owns a fee title interest in the real property and the improvements located
at 2575 Flores St, San Mateo, CA 94403 in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State 
of California, as more particularly described in Exhibit A (collectively, the “Property”). 
C.
The Child Care Operator and the City are parties to that certain Loan Agreement
dated as of ______________, 20___ (the "Loan Agreement").  Pursuant to the Loan Agreement, 
the City has made a loan to the Child Care Operator in the amount four hundred thirty 
thousand Dollars ($430,000) (the "Loan") for the development of an approximately three 
thousand three hundred seven (3,307) square foot childcare facility providing child care 
services for up to forty-eight (48) participants (the "Child Care Facility"). 
D.
In addition to this Agreement, the Loan is evidenced by certain loan documents,
as more particularly set forth in the Loan Agreement (collectively, the "Loan Documents"), 
including, but not limited to a deed of trust executed by the Child Care Operator, as trustor, in 
Exhibit 4
179 of 268

--- page 180 ---
4870-5435-6876v1  
2 
 
favor of the City, as beneficiary, recorded against the Collateral Property (the "Deed of Trust") 
in the official records of the County of San Mateo (the "Official Records").  The City, the 
Owner, and the Child Care Operator desire to enter into this Agreement to set forth their mutual 
understandings regarding the use of a portion of the Property for the Child Care Facility. 
THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby 
acknowledged, the City, the Child Care Operator, and the Owner (each a "Party", and, 
collectively, the "Parties") hereby agree as follows. 
 
Section 1. 
Use Restriction. The Child Care Facility shall be used as a licensed child 
care facility providing child care services for up to forty-eight (48) participants, including eight 
(8) spaces for participants whose income does not exceed eighty percent (80%) of area median 
income for the County of San Mateo, in accordance with the Loan Documents (the "Permitted 
Use").  No other use of the Child Care Facility that is inconsistent with the Permitted Use is 
permitted by this Agreement.  Owner and Child Care Operator acknowledge that the City made 
the Loan to the Child Care Operator, pursuant to the Loan Documents, in consideration for, and 
in reliance on, the Owner’s and Child Care Operator's obligation to restrict the Child Care 
Facility for the Permitted Use, in accordance with this Agreement, and that the City would not 
have agreed to make the Loan without the Owner’s and Child Care Operator's execution of, and 
obligation to comply with, this Agreement. The use restriction of the Permitted Use applies only 
to the ground floor (Suite 1) of the Property. The second floor of the Property is currently leased 
to another tenant and not part of the Permitted Use. 
Section 2. 
Term of Agreement.  The term of this Agreement shall commence as of 
the Effective Date and shall expire on the day that is ten (10) years from the Effective Date (the 
"Term").  This Agreement shall automatically terminate (without further action of the Parties) 
upon the expiration of the Term, and as evidenced by the reconveyance of the Deed of Trust; 
provided, however, upon the written request of the Child Care Operator, following the expiration 
of the Term, the City shall promptly execute a release, termination or similar document 
necessary to cause the release of this Agreement as an encumbrance on the title of the Property.  
The Child Care Operator shall be solely liable and responsible for all costs and expenses related 
to the removal of this Agreement as an encumbrance against the Property following the 
expiration of the Term.  Any damage to, or destruction of, the Child Care Facility shall have no 
impact on the Term. The Permitted Use shall terminate upon expiration of the Term or in the 
event of default, after the tenant default and lender cure period described below. 
Section 3. 
Violations by Child Care Operator and Owner.  The use of the Child Care 
Facility for any use other than the Permitted Use, in accordance with the requirements of this 
Agreement, shall be a violation of this Agreement.  The failure of the Child Care Operator and/or 
Owner to cure any default in the Child Care Operator's obligations under the terms of this 
Agreement within thirty (30) days after the delivery of a written notice of default from the City 
or Owner, or such longer period of time up to an additional sixty (60) days as may be necessary 
to remedy such default, provided that the Child Care Operator has commenced action during the 
thirty (30) days necessary to remedy such default and the Child Care Operator is proceeding with 
reasonable diligence to remedy such default, will constitute a default under this Agreement. In 
180 of 268

--- page 181 ---
4870-5435-6876v1  
3 
 
the event of default by the Child Care Operator, Owner shall have right to replace the Child Care 
Operator with a new child care operator tenant following the end of the cure period.  
Section 4. 
Remedies.   
(a) 
Subject to the applicable notice and cure period set forth above, the City 
may exercise any and all remedies available to it under the Loan Documents, or otherwise 
available at law or equity, with respect to the Child Care Operator's or Owner’s failure to satisfy 
the terms of this Agreement.  Child Care Operator and Owner acknowledge that any breach in 
Child Care Operator's performance of Child Care Operator's obligations under this Agreement 
would frustrate the public policy objectives desired by the City pursuant to the Loan Documents, 
and shall cause irreparable harm to the City.  Therefore, Child Care Operator and Owner agree 
that the City is entitled to equitable relief in the form of specific performance, and that an award 
of damages may not be adequate to compensate the City for Child Care Operator's or Owner’s 
failure to perform according to the terms of this Agreement.  The City, in its sole and absolute 
discretion, may elect the appropriate remedy for Child Care Operator's default under this 
Agreement. The City, in its sole and absolute discretion, may elect the appropriate remedy for 
Owner's default under this Agreement. 
(b) 
The City may exercise any and all remedies available to it at law or equity 
with respect to Owner’s failure to have the Child Care Facility used for the Permitted Use for the 
Term of this Agreement. 
Section 5. 
Covenants to Run With the Land.  The Parties hereby declare their express 
intent that the covenants and restrictions set forth in this Agreement shall run with the land, and 
shall bind all successors in title to the Property, provided, however, that on the expiration of the 
Term said covenants and restrictions shall expire.  Throughout the Term, each and every 
contract, deed or other instrument hereafter executed covering or conveying the Property or any 
portion thereof shall be held conclusively to have been executed, delivered and accepted subject 
to such covenants and restrictions, regardless of whether such covenants or restrictions are set 
forth in such contract, deed or other instrument, unless the City expressly releases such conveyed 
portion of the Property from the requirements of this Agreement.  All of the provisions of this 
Agreement shall be enforceable as equitable servitudes and shall constitute covenants running 
with the land pursuant to applicable laws, including without limitation Section 1468 of the 
California Civil Code. Each covenant to do, or to refrain from doing, some act on the Property 
hereunder: (a) is for the benefit of the Property and is a burden on the Property, (b) runs with the 
Property, and (c) is binding upon each Party and each successive Child Care Operator during its 
operation of the Child Care Facility at the Property or any portion thereof, and shall be a benefit 
to and a burden upon each Party and the Property hereunder and each other person or entity 
succeeding in an interest to the Property. 
Section 6. 
Recording and Filing.  The Parties shall cause this Agreement, and all 
amendments and supplements to it (if any), to be recorded against the Property in the Official 
Records. 
181 of 268

--- page 182 ---
4870-5435-6876v1  
4 
 
Section 7. 
Amendments, Modifications, and Waivers.  This Agreement may not be 
amended, modified or changed, nor shall any waiver of any provision hereof be effective, except 
by an instrument in writing and signed by the Parties.   
Section 8. 
Waiver.  In accordance with Section 7 above, the City may (but shall not 
be obligated to) waive any obligation imposed on the Owner and/or Child Care Operator 
pursuant to this Agreement; provided, however, the City's waiver of any term, covenant, or 
condition shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such term, covenant or condition of any 
subsequent breach of the same or any other term, covenant or condition.  The City's failure to 
exercise any right, option or privilege hereunder shall not be deemed a waiver of such right, 
option or privilege nor shall it relieve the Owner and/or Child Care Operator from: (1) their 
obligation to perform each and every covenant and condition on their part to be performed, or (2) 
from any damages or other remedy for failure to perform the obligations of this Agreement. 
Section 9. 
Entire Understanding of the Parties.  This Agreement constitutes the entire 
understanding and agreement of the Parties with respect to the use of the Improvements on the 
Property.  In the event of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Loan 
Documents, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.  The Parties and their counsel have read 
and reviewed this Agreement and agree that any rule of construction to the effect that 
ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party (including, but not limited to Civil Code 
Section 1654, as may be amended from time to time) shall not apply to the interpretation of this 
Agreement. 
Section 10. 
Severability.  If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this 
Agreement is held in a final disposition by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or 
unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect. 
Section 11. 
Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in 
accordance with the laws of the State of California, without reference to conflict of laws 
principles.  In the event that suit shall be brought by either Party to this Agreement, the Parties 
agree that venue shall be exclusively vested in the state courts of the County of San Mateo, and 
the Parties consent to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction and venue of such court. 
Section 12. 
Time.  In all matters under this Agreement, the Parties agree that time is of 
the essence.  References in this Agreement to days shall be to calendar days, unless otherwise 
indicated.  If the last day of any period to give or reply to a notice, meet a deadline or undertake 
any other action occurs on a day that is not a day of the week on which the City of San Mateo is 
open to the public for carrying on substantially all business functions (a "Business Day"), then 
the last day for giving or replying to such notice, meeting such deadline or undertaking any such 
other action shall be the next succeeding Business Day.  In no event shall a Saturday or Sunday 
be considered a Business Day. 
Section 13. 
Notice.  All notices given or certificates delivered under this Agreement 
shall be in writing and be deemed received on the delivery, or refusal, date shown on the delivery 
receipt, if:  (i) personally delivered, (ii) mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage 
prepaid, addressed as shown below, or (iii) delivered by reputable overnight delivery service 
with a receipt showing date of delivery.  Either of the Parties may, by notice given hereunder, 
182 of 268

--- page 183 ---
4870-5435-6876v1  
5 
 
designate any further or different addresses to which subsequent notices, certificates or 
communications shall be sent. 
City:  
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
Attention:  Community Development Department 
 
 
Child Care Operator: 
Mighty Tiger Preschool, LLC 
508 Davey Glen Rd 
Belmont, CA 94002 
 
Owner 
CBR Flores LLC 
1336 Sanchez Ave. 
Burlingame, CA 94010 
Attn.: Chris Baker 
 
Section 14. 
Indemnity.   
(a) 
The Child Care Operator shall indemnify, defend (with counsel reasonably 
selected by the City), and hold harmless the City and its officers, officials, agents, and employees 
against any and all liability, claims, actions, causes of action or demands whatsoever against any 
of them, including any injury or death of any person or damage to property or other liability of 
any nature, arising out of the Child Care Operator's and Owner’s performance of their 
obligations hereunder, except where the cause of such is solely due to the negligence or willful 
misconduct of City.  The indemnification obligations set forth in this Section shall survive any 
termination of this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Owner shall indemnify, defend (with counsel reasonably selected by 
the City), and hold harmless the City and its officers, officials, agents, and employees against 
any and all liability, claims, actions, causes of action or demands whatsoever against any of 
them, including any injury or death of any person or damage to property or other liability of any 
nature, arising out of the Child Care Operator's and Owner’s performance of their obligations 
hereunder, except where the cause of such is solely due to the negligence or willful misconduct 
of City.  The indemnification obligations set forth in this Section shall survive any termination of 
this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Child Care Operator shall indemnify, defend (with counsel reasonably 
selected by the Owner), and hold harmless the Owner and its officers, officials, agents, and 
employees against any and all liability, claims, actions, causes of action or demands whatsoever 
against any of them, including any injury or death of any person or damage to property or other 
liability of any nature, arising out of the Child Care Operator's performance of their obligations 
hereunder and the lease for the Child Care Facility, except where the cause of such is solely due 
to the negligence or willful misconduct of Owner.  The indemnification obligations set forth in 
this Section shall survive any termination of this Agreement. 
183 of 268

--- page 184 ---
4870-5435-6876v1  
6 
 
Section 15. 
Discretion Retained by City. The Owner and Child Care Operator 
acknowledge and agree that nothing in this Agreement shall waive, limit, or otherwise impair 
any municipal power or authority of any office or department of the City acting in its capacity as 
a governmental regulatory authority with jurisdiction over the development, use, or operation of 
the Property. 
Section 16. 
City Approval.  The City has authorized the City Manager, or his or her 
designee, to execute this Agreement and deliver such approvals or consents as are required by 
this Agreement, and to execute estoppel certificates concerning the status of the Loan and the 
existence of Child Care Operator’ defaults under the Loan Documents. 
Section 17. 
No Third Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is not intended to create, 
nor shall it be in any way interpreted or construed to create any third party beneficiary rights in 
any person not a party hereto. 
Section 18. 
No Partnership.  This Agreement shall not be construed to constitute any 
form of partnership or joint venture between the Parties.  
Section 19. 
Interpretation.  The use in this Agreement of the words "including", "such 
as" or words of similar import when used with reference to any general term, statement or matter 
shall not be construed to limit such statement, term or matter to the specific statements, terms or 
matters, unless language of limitation, such as "and limited to" or words of similar import are 
used with reference thereto. The headings of this Agreement are for convenience only and do not 
in any way limit or amplify the terms or provisions hereof.  All pronouns and variations thereof 
shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, or neuter, and to the singular or plural, as the 
identity of the party or parties may require. 
Section 20. 
Estoppel Certificate.  Upon the Owner and/or Child Care Operator's 
request, the City will execute and deliver to Owner or the Child Care Operator no more than 
fifteen (15) business days after the Owner’s and/or Child Care Operator's written request an 
estoppel certificate, stating that, to the best of the City's knowledge: 
(a) 
This Agreement is unmodified and in full force and effect, or, if the 
Agreement is modified, how it has been modified; 
(b) 
There is no outstanding default under the Agreement, or identifying any 
default which exists; and 
(c) 
Such other matters as may be reasonably requested by the Owner and/or 
Child Care Operator. 
If the Owner and/or Child Care Operator requests an estoppel certificate, and the City 
does not respond within fifteen (15) business days, the City shall be deemed to have delivered a 
certificate containing the requested statements. 
Section 21. 
Owner and Child Care Operator Acknowledgement.  The Owner and/or 
Child Care Operator agree and acknowledge that adequate, and good and valuable, consideration 
has been obtained by the Owner and/or Child Care Operator, pursuant to this Agreement and the 
184 of 268

--- page 185 ---
4870-5435-6876v1  
7 
 
Loan Documents.  The Owner and/or Child Care Operator further acknowledges that due to the 
limitations on the Child Care Operator’s use of the Property, as set forth in this Agreement, the 
Owner and/or Child Care Operator may suffer economic loss or other consequences, including, 
but not limited to, economic loss or other consequences due to the Child Care Operator's 
inability to operate, or to permit the operation of, any particular form of business at the Property 
that does not constitute the Permitted Use.  The Owner and/or Child Care Operator, on behalf of 
themselves and anyone claiming by, through or under the Owner and/or Child Care Operator 
specifically release and waive any claim against the City for such loss or economic consequences 
in connection with the limitations imposed pursuant to this Agreement, including but not limited 
any claim for inverse condemnation or similar claims. By its execution of this Agreement, the 
Owner and/or Child Care Operator, on behalf of themselves and anyone claiming by, through or 
under the Owner and/or Child Care Operator, hereby assume the above-mentioned risks and 
hereby expressly waives any right the Owner and/or Child Care Operator and anyone claiming 
by, through or under the Owner and/or Child Care Operator, may have against the City pursuant 
to Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which reads as follows: 
"A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor or releasing party does not 
know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release and that, if 
known by him or her, would have materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor 
or released party." 
 
Section 22. 
Multiple Originals; Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in 
multiple originals, each of which is deemed to be an original, and may be signed in counterparts. 
 
Remainder of Page Left Intentionally Blank 
185 of 268

--- page 186 ---
4870-5435-6876v1  
8 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement by duly authorized 
representatives, all as of the Effective Date. 
 
 
 
CITY: 
CITY OF SAN MATEO,  
a California municipal corporation 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
Name: 
Alex Khojikian 
 
 
 
Its: 
City Manager 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
CHILD CARE OPERATOR: 
MIGHTY TIGER PRESCHOOL,  
a California Limited Liability Company 
 
By: 
 
 
By: 
 
Name: 
Mazarin Vakharia 
 
Name: 
Geoffrey K. Choy 
Its: 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
Its: 
LLC Member 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
Name: 
Ruth-Heidi Choy 
 
 
 
Its: 
LLC Member 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Signatures continue on next page) 
186 of 268

--- page 187 ---
4870-5435-6876v1  
9 
 
 
 
 
OWNER: 
CBR Flores LLC, a California Limited 
Liability Company 
 
 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
Name: 
Chris Baker 
 
 
 
Its: 
Manager 
187 of 268

--- page 188 ---
4870-5435-6876v1  
A-1 
 
EXHIBIT A 
 
LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY 
(2575 Flores Street, San Mateo, CA) 
 
BEGINING AT THE INTERSECTION OF THE EASTERLY LINE OF FLORES STREET WITH 
THE NORTHWESTERLY LINE OF A 15 FOOT EASEMENT FOR STREET OR TRAVEL 
PURPOSES AND PUBLIC UTILITIES, AS GRANTED BY DEED OF DEDICATION OF 
EASEMENT FROM STADER, ALSO KNOWN AS FRED WILLIAM STADER, TO THE CITY OF 
SAN MATEO, A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, DATED AUGUST 7,1950 AND RECORDED 
NOVEMBER 13,1950 IN BOOK 1974 OF OFFICIAL RECORDS AT PAGE 535, RECORDS OF 
SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA; THENCE FROM SAID POINT OF BEGINNING, ALONG 
SAID NORTHWESTERLY LINE, NORTH 70’ 44' EAST 167.87 FEET; THENCE LEAVING SAID 
NORTHWESTERLY LINE, NORTH 27° 41' WEST 40.44 FEET; THENCE SOUTH 70° 44' 
WEST 151,99 FEET TO THE EASTERLY LINE OF FLORES STREET AS ABOVE 
MENTIONED; THENCE ALONG SAID EASTERLY LINE SOUTH 1’ 58’ EAST 3.07 FEET AND 
ALONG A CURVE TO THE LEFT, WITH A RADIUS OF 305.00 FEET, A CENTRAL ANGLE OF 
7° 10' 22", AN ARC DISTANCE OF 38.18 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING. 
 
 
 
188 of 268

--- page 189 ---
4870-5435-6876v1  
A-1 
 
 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
) 
 
) 
COUNTY OF __________________ 
) 
 
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, personally 
appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the basis of 
satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and 
that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the 
person(s) acted, executed the instrument. 
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
 _____________________________________  
  Name:   ______________________________  
 
Notary Public 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
) 
 
) 
COUNTY OF __________________ 
) 
 
On ____________________, before me, ___________________________, Notary Public, personally 
appeared ______________________________________, who proved to me on the basis of 
satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and 
that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the 
person(s) acted, executed the instrument. 
I certify UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the 
foregoing paragraph is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
 
 _____________________________________  
  Name:   ______________________________  
 
Notary Public 
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document. 
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the 
identity of the individual who signed the document to which this certificate is 
attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document. 
189 of 268

--- page 190 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 00-5718
File ID: 23-8167
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
December 4, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Tree Planting Services – Appropriation and Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize an appropriation of $288,942.50 from the Tree Replacement Fund to the Parks and 
Recreation Capital Improvement Project Tree Planting Fund; approve an agreement with Loral Horticultural Services Inc. 
for Citywide Tree Planting Services in the amount of $262,675.00; establish a 10 percent contingency reserve of 
$26,275.50; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented.
BACKGROUND:
Tree Replacement Fees are levied on all development projects necessitating approval through a planning application, 
except for single-family dwelling design review applications, where trees will be removed as part of the development 
process.
Over the next two years, the Parks and Recreation Department plans to plant a total of 520 trees in the public right of way 
and within City parks. On October 19, 2023, a Notice Inviting Sealed Bids was posted on the City’s website and in the San 
Mateo Daily Journal. A total of five (5) bids were received by the submission deadline on October 31, 2023. The bid results 
are detailed below: 
Bidder
Total Base Bid
Loral Horticultural Services Inc.
 $          262,675.00 
Arborist Now
 $          282,815.00 
West Coast Arborists
 $          298,800.00 
SavATree
 $          349,915.00 
Professional Tree Care Co.
 $          638,000.00 
The lowest bidder, Loral Horticultural Services Inc., has satisfactorily met all the bid submission requirements. They also 
have a proven track record of successfully executing large landscape maintenance contracts for the City of San Mateo. 
Therefore, staff recommends the award of contract to Loral Horticultural Services, Inc. for citywide tree planting services.
Staff recommends the award of contract to Loral Horticulture Services, Inc. and authorizing a budget appropriation of 
$288,942.50 from the Tree Replacement Fund (015-0194) to the Parks and Recreation Capital Improvement Project Tree 
Planting Fund (610008) for citywide planting services. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Tree Replacement Fund (015-0194) has a current fund balance of $1,232,868.30, which is sufficient for this 
190 of 268

--- page 191 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
appropriation.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement for tree planting is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the 
operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, 
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Matthew Fried, Managing Arborist
mfried@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7422
191 of 268

--- page 192 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023) 
 
AUTHORIZING A BUDGET APPROPRIATION OF $288,942.50 FROM THE TREE REPLACEMENT FUND TO THE 
PARKS AND RECREATION CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT TREE PLANTING FUND FOR CITYWIDE TREE 
PLANTING SERVICES
WHEREAS, the City Council is awarding a contract for the Citywide Tree Planting Services Project in the 
amount of $262,675.00, plus a 10% contingency of 26,275.50, concurrently with this resolution; and
WHEREAS, an appropriation of $288,942.50 from the Tree Replacement Fund to the Parks and 
Recreation Capital Improvement Project Tree Planting Fund is necessary to fund the contract for tree planting 
services.
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
1.
This budget appropriation and the associated tree planting is categorically exempt from CEQA as an 
“existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, 
licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, 
or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.) 
2.
The budget appropriation in the amount of $288,942.50 from the Tree Replacement Fund (015-0194) 
to the Parks and Recreation Capital Improvement Project Tree Planting Fund (610008) is approved.
192 of 268

--- page 193 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
AGREEMENT WITH LORAL HORTICULTURAL SERVICES INC. 
FOR CITYWIDE TREE PLANTING SERVICES 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between the CITY 
OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California ("CITY"), and 
LORAL HORTICULTURAL SERVICES INC., a corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 704 South 
Amphlett Blvd, San Mateo, CA 94402. 
 
 
RECITALS: 
 
A.       CITY desires certain Tree Planting Services hereinafter described. 
 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these Tree Planting Services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
.
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference.  
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
193 of 268

--- page 194 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on the date of execution 
of this Agreement and be completed on November 25, 2025. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment request 
upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full performance 
of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR an amount not to exceed 
$262,675.00, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR .  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
194 of 268

--- page 195 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONTRACTOR’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
195 of 268

--- page 196 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
 
To CITY: 
Matthew Fried 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
196 of 268

--- page 197 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
To CONTRACTOR: 
Loral Horticultural Services Inc. 
Attn: Mike Bergstrom 
704 South Amphlett Blvd 
San Mateo, CA 94402 
 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
197 of 268

--- page 198 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and LORAL HORTICULTURAL SERVICES INC. 
have executed this Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Joanne Magrini 
Director of Parks and Recreation 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Mike Bergstrom 
President 
Loral Horticultural Services Inc. 
 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President 
plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) 
who shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mazarin Vakharia 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
11/13/2023
198 of 268

--- page 199 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
EXHIBIT A - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
Summary of Scope of Services 
 
Receive delivery of approximately 260 trees (mixture of 15 gallon and 24” box) annually. 
 
Maintain tree health and vigor until planting. 
 
Plant trees in various locations throughout the City of San Mateo. 
 
Provide stump-grinding services as needed to plant trees according to specifications. 
 
Follow all applicable ANSI A300 Standards and BMPs and all specifications detailed below. 
 
City to provide trees and staging area at 2001 Pacific Blvd, San Mateo, CA 94403. 
 
Contractor to provide all labor and equipment necessary for scope of work, including receipt of tree 
deliveries. 
 
Contractor to provide all tree stakes, tree tie, soil (as needed), debris disposal, watering equipment, tree 
fencing, TreeDiapers. 
 
Timing of Operations 
Tree planting work will occur during the following time periods: 
 
YEAR 1 - November 25, 2023 – March 15, 2024 
 
YEAR 2 - November 15, 2024  – March 15, 2025 
 
The complete list of tree planting locations will be provided to the contractor no later than November 20 in 
YEAR 1 and November 1 in YEAR 2. 
All work must occur between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Contractor may not 
work on weekends, nor any holidays observed by the City of San Mateo. Once work has begun each year, the 
contractor must maintain a planting crew working on the project full-time until the project until completion. This 
work is not to be done “on the fly,” or suffer from multiple interruptions.  
Contractor to maintain shared online log, updated daily, of all locations planted. There should never be 
ambiguity about what has/hasn’t been completed. 
Utility Conflicts 
Contractor is responsible for calling USA to determine potential utility conflicts for all planting sites. Where 
existing utilities prevent the planting of the tree in line with the green paint marking on the curb, contractor 
must alert Managing Arborist (or designee) to adjust planting location. Some underground utilities will not be 
reflected by a USA investigation. One example anticipated is private irrigation piping in the tree planting area. 
Contractor assumes all responsibility for damage to underground utilities and irrigation, marked or not, and will 
promptly arrange for repairs to be made in the event of damage. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
199 of 268

--- page 200 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
Tree Procurement, Delivery,  
The City will tag and purchase all trees for this project at area nurseries.  
The City will connect contractor with nurseries so that mutually agreed upon delivery may be scheduled.   
Trees will be delivered to, and stored at, City of San Mateo Landscape Resources Yard (2001 Pacific Blvd). This is 
a secure site with access to water. 
Contractor will provide equipment and labor to offload trees. 
Upon delivery, contractor will refuse any material that does not meet American Association of Nursery 
Standards ANSI 760.1-2014. Contractor has authority to refuse any trees upon delivery, and shall notify CoSM of 
any rejected material.  
Contractor to inspect all trees for an intact leader. If the leader is broken at the time of the planting, contractor 
will be responsible for replacement. 
Storage 
Once received, contractor assumes responsibility for watering and tree health and safety until trees are planted. 
City to supply access to water. Contractor to provide a hose. 
Tree Transport to Job Site 
Trees are to be loaded, transported, and planted in such a way as to not injure any parts of the tree during these 
activities. Trees should be tarped prior to transport. 
Traffic Control 
Where necessary, contractor is responsible for setting up necessary signage and protocols to ensure the safety 
of workers, pedestrians, and motorists, and to comply with state and local regulations. 
‘No Parking’ Signs 
Contractor is responsible for posting “No Parking” signs, if needed to perform work. All signs must be posted a 
minimum of 48 hours in advance of work. Signs may be valid for a period not to exceed two business days. The 
City will provide signs to contractor upon request. 
Site Preparation 
Some of the planting sites will have existing stumps, shrubbery, or small dead trees. Contractor is responsible for 
removing these items from the planting site.  
Where stump grinding is necessary, contractor shall remove grindings from site to bring planting area to grade. 
Trees are not to be planted in a mixture any greater than 10% wood chips. See Figure 1. 
Pavement, concrete and rocks over 2-inches in any dimension shall be removed from the planting pit to a 
minimum 24-inch depth.  
Where backfilling is necessary to bring planter pit soil to grade or to replace stump grindings or other debris, 
contractor to supply quality topsoil. See Figure 2. 
Below is a summary of the planting requirements. Contractor responsible for reviewing and ascribing to ISA 
BMP Tree Planting, 2nd Edition. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
200 of 268

--- page 201 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
Planter Pit 
Follow ANSI A300 64.4 and ISA BMP Tree Planting 2nd Edition. Planter hole width to be minimum 1.5 times 
rootball diameter.  
Planting Depth 
The bottom of true trunk flare must be at or slightly above finished grade. As defined in ISA BMP Tree Planting 
2nd Edition, If trunk flare is not visible at top of root ball/container, contractor shall expose trunk flare prior to 
planting. Adventitious roots that have resulted from poor nursery practices do not constitute the TRUE trunk 
flare. Keep looking! 
Root Care 
After container is removed, root ball shall be trimmed in the following way: 
1. Thick circling roots – straighten and/or cut cleanly 
2. Thin roots—make three to four vertical cuts ½ inch deep around the root ball. Spread bottom out if 
necessary. 
 
Tree Placement 
Locate tree in hole and rotate to direct main branches away from street and pedestrian passages. 
Watering at Planting 
Water must be added to root zone and surrounding soil to bring root zone to field capacity. 
Berm 
Contractor to form a soil berm no less than 3 inches but no greater than 6 inches around perimeter of root ball. 
Staking 
Refer to ANSI A300 Part 3 and BMP Tree Support Systems, 3rd Edition. 
If tree is delivered with a stake in the box/container, that stake is to be removed during planting.  
Each tree is to get three treated stakes that are a minimum of 8 feet in height and 2 inches in diameter. The 
three stakes shall be laterally stabilized by three cross braces.  The cross braces, to be provided by the 
contractor, will be 19” wide x 3.75” high, cut from 5/8" plywood or fencing. The braces shall be nail/screwed to 
the stakes at about 5 feet high. Nails shall not protrude from the surface of the wood. (Note: past contractors 
have found redwood fence boards of adequate width for this task.) See Figure 3. 
Contractor will use staple gun to fasten one 3” x 15” vinyl sign to each of the three cross braces (3 stickers per 
tree using 4-8 staples per sticker). Educational signs to be provided by CoSM. See Figure 4. 
Stakes should not extend more than 18 inches above cross brace signs. 
Sites with Tree Grates 
Sites with existing tree grates will require grate-specific tree stakes. One (1) J.R. Partners R2 Grate Stake must be 
installed in accordance with manufacturer specifications. Alternative grate stakes must be approved by the 
Managing Arborist.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
201 of 268

--- page 202 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
Tree Tie 
Trees are to be secured with ties of a stretchable rubber material. Tie material and configuration should prevent 
main stem and branches from rubbing against staking and cross braces. Contractor to present tying methods to 
Managing Arborist for approval prior to contract start. 
Ties shall be secured in a manner allowing movement of trunk to permit proper trunk taper development. 
TreeDiapers 
On a limited number of sites, primarily median islands, TreeDiapers must be installed according to the 
manufacturer’s instructions. 15-gallon trees are to receive a Tree Diaper TD36R (Model#1036vA). 24-inch box 
trees are to receive a Tree Diaper TD48R (Model#1048). All vegetation beneath the TreeDiapers must be 
grubbed out prior to installation. On sites where TreeDiapers are installed, all ice plant and/or ivy must be 
grubbed out for radius of 6 feet from the tree. 
Staffing and Supervision 
One crew leader is to be assigned to work on this project for its entire duration. That crew leader shall be fluent 
in English and be able to accept instruction from the City’s Managing Arborist (or designee). The name of this 
supervisor should be submitted with the proposal, and they shall have at all times a charged mobile phone on 
which City staff can reach them. 
Post-planting Inspection and Performance Criteria 
The Managing Arborist or designee will conduct detailed post-planting inspections to ensure trees are planted 
according to the contract specifications. Contractor responsible for correcting all deviations noted during the 
post-work inspection. No Exceptions. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
202 of 268

--- page 203 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
EXHIBIT B - PAYMENT RATES 
 
Invoices are to be submitted no more frequently than once per 14 days. Each invoice shall include the full 
species name and container size of each tree planted and the corresponding address where that tree was 
planted. Total services invoiced under this Agreement shall not exceed $262,675.00. 
 
Work shall be invoiced and will be paid according to the Schedule of Services and Service Descriptions below. 
 
SCHEDULE OF SERVICES AND SERVICE DESCRIPTIONS 
 
ITEM 
NO. 
SERVICE DESCRIPTION 
YEAR 1 
UNIT PRICE  
 
YEAR 2 
UNIT PRICE  
 
1 
Standard Street Tree (15 gallon) 
 $            290.00  
 $            300.00  
2 
Standard Street Tree (24-inch box) 
 $            555.00  
 $            575.00  
3 
Street Tree w/ Existing Tree Grate (15 gallon) 
 $            525.00  
 $            540.00  
4 
Street Tree w/ Existing Tree Grate (24-inch box) 
 $            850.00  
 $            875.00  
5 
Park Tree (15 gallon) 
 $            325.00  
 $            340.00  
6 
Park Tree (24-inch box) 
 $            585.00  
 $            600.00  
7 
Park Tree w TreeDiaper (15 gallon) 
 $            425.00  
 $            440.00  
8 
Park Tree w TreeDiaper (24-inch box) 
 $            745.00  
 $            770.00  
 
1. Standard Street Tree (15 gallon) – Planting of one (1) 15-gallon tree along a city street, using 3 tree 
stakes and cross-brace signage, as described in Exhibit A. 
 
2. Standard Street Tree (24-inch box)  - Planting of one (1) 24-inch box tree along a city street, using 3 
tree stakes and cross-brace signage, as described in Exhibit A. 
 
3. Street Tree w/ Existing Tree Grate (15 gallon)  - Planting of one (1) 15-gallon tree in a planting site 
with an existing tree grate. Providing and installing one J.R. Partners R2 Grate Stake, as described in 
Exhibit A. 
 
4. Street Tree w/ Existing Tree Grate (24-inch box) - Planting of one (1) 24-inch box tree in a planting 
site with an existing tree grate. Providing and installing one J.R. Partners R2 Grate Stake, as described 
in Exhibit A. 
 
5. Park Tree (15 gallon) – Planting of one (1) 15-gallon tree in a city park, using 2 tree stakes. No cross-
braces or signage. 
 
6. Park Tree (24-inch box) – Planting of one (1) 24-inch box tree in a city park, using 2 tree stakes. No 
cross-braces or signage. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
203 of 268

--- page 204 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
7. Park Tree w/ TreeDiaper (15 gallon) – Planting of one (1) 15-gallon tree in a park or park-like planting 
area, using 2 tree stakes. Providing and installing according to the manufacturer's instructions one 
(1) Tree Diaper TD36R (Model#1036vA). No cross-braces or signage. 
 
8. Park Tree w/ TreeDiaper (24-inch box) – Planting of one (1) 24-inch box tree in a park or park-like 
planting area, using 2 tree stakes. Providing and installing according to the manufacturer's 
instructions one (1) Tree Diaper TD48R (Model#1048). No cross-braces or signage. 
 
With the exception of the trees and the signage, the Contractor shall be provide all labor and 
materials required to successfully deliver the bid items above. 
 
The City will purchase all plant material and signage.  
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
204 of 268

--- page 205 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 13 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
205 of 268

--- page 206 ---
Signing In Process
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 14 of 14 
Rev 12/22 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8EC13FEF-6900-4B8A-8915-B1BD04BF2BBA
206 of 268

--- page 207 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 21-4678
File ID: 23-7707
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
December 4, 2023 
SUBJECT:
CalRecycle – Grant Applications
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the submission of grant applications to the California Department of Resources Recycling 
and Recovery; and authorize the City Manager, or Solid Waste Supervisor as designee, to execute all required 
documentation necessary for the grant application process.
BACKGROUND:
The California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery (CalRecycle) is a branch of the California Environmental 
Protection Agency that oversees the state's waste management, recycling, and waste reduction programs. City staff work 
closely with CalRecycle to meet its waste diversion goals for recycling and compost, construction and demolition recycling, 
mattress and tire collection, illegal dumping, and other state mandates.
When eligible, the City’s Solid Waste program submits grant applications to receive grant money from CalRecycle for 
promotion of waste diversion and help defray the costs to implement the requirements of SB 1383. SB 1383 is California’s 
Short Term Pollutants Reduction legislation, which seeks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by reducing the amount of 
organics sent to landfill in the state. The City receives grants to promote recycling through the City/County Payment 
Program and uses this money for staff time and supplies to promote waste diversion at our special events, Music in the 
Park, B St. Nights, Beresford shredding/e-waste events, and the Bayfront Cleanup. 
The City also receives money through the Cal Recycle Local Assistance Grant to defray some of the costs to implement SB 
1383.  These costs include recycled organics waste products procurement, education and outreach, and contamination 
analysis. In the next grant cycle, the City is on target to receive approximately $188,000 to be spent for SB 1383 
implementation over the next two years.
To process our applications and receive these funds, CalRecycle requires the City of San Mateo to adopt a resolution 
authorizing the submission of applications and, if awarded, the administration of the funds. The resolution would 
authorize the execution of grant agreements and related documentation and will meet the CalRecycle grant application 
requirements for a time period of five years from the date of the Resolution.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is currently no budgetary impact associated with this action, however not approving the resolution for grants with 
CalRecycle will cause the City not to receive the anticipated $188,000. If a Grant is awarded, a future request of Council 
will be appropriation of the grant funding to the Waste Disposal program in the Solid Waste Fund. 
207 of 268

--- page 208 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action by the City in passing a resolution allowing receipt of State money and submission of grant applications is not a 
project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific 
project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Jack Johnson, Waste Management Supervisor
jjohnson@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7346
Sven Edlund, Regulatory Compliance Manager
Sedlund@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7296
208 of 268

--- page 209 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
AUTHORIZING SUBMITTAL OF APPLICATION(S) FOR ALL CALRECYCLE GRANTS FOR WHICH THE CITY OF SAN 
MATEO IS ELIGIBLE
WHEREAS, Public Resources Code sections 48000 et seq. authorizes the Department of Resources 
Recycling and Recovery (CalRecycle) to administer various grant programs (Grants) in furtherance of the State of 
California’s efforts to reduce, recycle and reuse solid waste generated in the state thereby preserving landfill 
capacity and protecting public health and safety and the environment; and
WHEREAS, in furtherance of this authority CalRecycle is required to establish procedures governing the 
application, awarding, and management of Grants; and
WHEREAS, CalRecycle’s grant application procedures require, among other things, an applicant’s 
governing body to declare by resolution certain authorizations related to the administration of CalRecycle 
Grants.   
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This action by the City in passing a resolution authorizing the submission of grant applications is not 
subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment 
to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.
The City Council authorizes the submittal of applications to CalRecycle for all grants for which the 
City of San Mateo is eligible.
3.
The City Manager, or Solid Waste Supervisor as designee, is hereby authorized to execute all grant 
documents, including but not limited to, applications, agreements, amendments, and requests for 
payment, necessary to secure grant funds and implement the approved grant project on behalf of 
the City of San Mateo. 
4.
This authorization is effective for five (5) years from the date of adoption of this resolution.
209 of 268

--- page 210 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4679
File ID: 23-8219
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
Dec. 4, 2023
SUBJECT:
Fallen Heroes Memorial Artwork Fabrication – Appropriation and Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize an appropriation in the amount of $103,400 from the Art in Public Places Fund to the 
Parks and Recreation Capital Improvement Project Central Park Fund for the fabrication of the Fallen Heroes Memorial 
artwork and approve a purchase agreement with Thomas-Swan Sign Company, Inc., for custom fabricated signage in an 
amount not to exceed $103,400; and authorize the Director of the Parks and Recreation to execute a purchase agreement 
in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo Municipal Code (23.60.030) states there is a fund known as the "Art in Public Places Fund" and that 
this fund shall be maintained by the City treasurer, and shall be used for the acquisition, installation, improvement, and 
maintenance of artwork to be displayed in the City, and the administration of the Art in Public Places Program.
The Parks and Recreation Department is constructing a Fallen Heroes Memorial at the direction of the City Council as part 
of the implementation of the Central Park Master Plan. Throughout the years, residents had been inquiring about where 
San Mateo has formal recognition for our fallen heroes and veterans. While there are six separate plaques scattered in 
Central Park recognizing veterans and service members, the City has no formal memorial. In response to community 
interest in 2015, Mayor Maureen Freschet recommended the creation of a memorial in Central Park to recognize all the 
City's Fallen Heroes, including public safety personnel. The San Mateo City Council unanimously agreed with the 
recommendation and directed that a Fallen Heroes Memorial be added to the Central Park Master Plan. An eleven- 
member steering committee, comprised of City Councilmembers, veterans, retired police and fire representatives, 
community members, and city staff was assembled to develop the memorial's concept.
The City contracted with RRM Design Group to develop a design concept for committee consideration. RRM returned with 
two concepts, including the Remembrance Poppy inspired by the national emblem of remembrance that was worn 
following World War I (Attachment 3). The Committee overwhelmingly chose the Remembrance Poppy which is the 
preferred design recommended to the Park and Recreation Commission. The City Council expressed unanimous support 
and approval for the design at its November 20, 2020, City Council Meeting, and later, at its May 17, 2021, meeting the 
Council appropriated $50,000 for construction of the memorial and approved the Fallen Heroes Recognition Policy. The 
design consists of seven vertical stainless-steel columns, each containing a segment of the poppy that, when viewed from 
a certain angle, will unite to form a single image. Each column will represent a branch of the military and the San Mateo 
Police and Fire Departments with engraved names of those who died in service. 
Per the Purchasing Policy, the department conducted a public solicitation for quotes for the fabrication of the artwork and 
Thomas - Swan Sign Company, Inc. was chosen based on price and execution of previous work examples of similar scale.
Per Municipal Code Section 23.60.030, “Art In Public Places Fund,” the department gained unanimous approval from the 
Civic Arts Committee, at their November 13, 2023 meeting, to approve $94,000 plus a 10% contingency in the amount of 
210 of 268

--- page 211 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
$9,400 for a total of $103,400 for the fabrication of the Fallen Heroes Memorial artwork. Staff recommends that City 
Council approve the appropriation of the funds and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute a purchase 
agreement with Thomas - Swan Sign Company, Inc. in substantially the form presented inclusive of a 10% contingency.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient funding available for the budget appropriation. The current fund balance of the Art in Public Places Fund 
stands at $999,946.84, with $294,567 appropriated (and available) by the Civic Arts Committee. This action will result in a 
reduction of this balance by $103,400.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) The Fallen 
Heroes Memorial sitework is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, 
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301) and because it consists of construction and location of limited numbers of new, small facilities or structures; 
installation of small new equipment and facilities in small structures; and the conversion of existing small structures from 
one use to another where only minor modifications are made in the exterior of the structure. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15303.)  
  NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1- Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Purchase Agreement Thomas – Swan Sign Company, Inc.
Att 3 - Remembrance Poppy Rendering 
STAFF CONTACT
King Leong
kleong@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7542
211 of 268

--- page 212 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023) 
 
APPROVING A BUDGET APPROPRIATION FOR THE FALLEN HEROES MEMORIAL ARTWORK FABRICATION
WHEREAS, the "Art in Public Places Fund" must be used for the acquisition, installation, improvement, 
and maintenance of artwork to be displayed in the City, and the administration of the Art in Public Places 
Program; and
WHEREAS, the Parks and Recreation Department of the City of San Mateo is constructing a Fallen 
Heroes Memorial depicting a Remembrance Poppy at the direction of the City Council as part of the 
implementation of the Central Park Master Plan; and
WHEREAS,  the Parks and Recreation Department submitted the Remembrance Poppy to the Civic Arts 
Committee for consideration as artwork for the Arts in Public Place Program, and the Civic Art Committee 
approved the artwork; and
WHEREAS, the Civic Arts Committee approved the recommendation of the budget appropriation at their 
November 13, 2023 meeting for the fabrication of the poppy artwork.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
1.
This budget appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA because it is an organization or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes to the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)). The Fallen Heroes Memorial sitework is categorically exempt 
from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, 
permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301) and because it consists of construction and location of limited numbers of 
new, small facilities or structures; installation of small new equipment and facilities in small 
structures; and the conversion of existing small structures from one use to another where only minor 
modifications are made in the exterior of the structure. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15303.)  
2.
The appropriation of $103,400 from the Art in Public Places Fund to the Parks and Recreation Capital 
Improvement Project Central Park 610027, for the fabrication of the Fallen Heroes Memorial artwork 
is approved.
212 of 268

--- page 213 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 1 of 8
Rev 7/21
PURCHASE CONTRACT 
FOR THE CENTRAL PARK FALLEN HEROES MEMORIAL REMEMBERANCE POPPY
FROM THOMAS-SWAN SIGN COMPANY, INC.
This Purchase Contract (“Contract”), made and entered into this day of _________, 20__, by 
and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of 
California (“CITY”), and Thomas-Swan Sign Company, Inc., a Corporation (“VENDOR”).
RECITALS:
A.
CITY desires to purchase certain custom fabricated signage hereinafter described to be 
placed in Central Park as part of the Fallen Heroes Memorial.
B.
CITY desires to engage VENDOR to provide this custom fabricated signage by reason of 
its qualifications and experience and VENDOR has offered to provide the required goods on the terms 
and in the manner set forth herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows:
SECTION 1 - PURCHASE
The goods to be purchased from VENDOR under this Contract are described in Exhibit A, which 
is attached and incorporated by reference.
SECTION 2 - PRICE AND TAXES
All prices shall be as stated in this Contract and are firm and not subject to escalation.  
This purchase is subject to all California sales tax.  Municipalities are exempt from federal excise and 
transportation taxes.  Prices shall exclude these taxes.  
SECTION 3 - PAYMENT
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from date of 
delivery and acceptance of goods.  Invoices must cite the purchase order number to prevent delay in 
payment.  All invoices must be mailed to City of San Mateo, Attn:  Accounts Payable, 330 West 20th 
Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403.
213 of 268

--- page 214 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 2 of 8
Rev 7/21
SECTION 4 - DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE
Time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract.  Delivery of goods shall occur no 
later than March 3, 2024. If delivery of goods cannot be made at the specified time, VENDOR shall 
promptly notify the CITY of the earliest possible date for delivery.  Notwithstanding such notice, if 
VENDOR for any reason fails to deliver goods within the time specified or to the CITY’s satisfaction the 
CITY may terminate this Contract or any part thereof without liability except for goods previously 
provided and accepted.  The CITY’s receipt or acceptance of all or part of a non-conforming delivery 
shall not constitute a waiver of any claim, right or remedy the CITY has under this Contract or 
applicable law. 
SECTION 5 - SHIPMENT AND INSPECTION
VENDOR assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, packing, 
handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No charges for 
transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the vendor unless so specified in this Contract.  
All shipments shall be F.O. B. to the CITY’s Park Yard, at 2001 Pacific Blvd., San Mateo.  Transportation 
charges shall be shown as a separate item on the invoice.
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped.  The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at VENDOR’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY.  By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any 
defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of 
the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance.  VENDOR shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods.  Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number.
SECTION 6 - WARRANTIES
In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise agreed in 
writing, VENDOR warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable for use as 
described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; in 
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens and 
encumbrances.  These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude VENDOR’s standard warranties or 
other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain.
SECTION 7 - INDEMNITY
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of VENDOR’s performance of this Contract, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  VENDOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents against any such claims. The VENDOR’s duty to indemnify shall survive 
expiration or early termination of this Contract.
214 of 268

--- page 215 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 3 of 8
Rev 7/21
SECTION 8 - TERMINATION
This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the CITY at its 
discretion.  The CITY may cancel an order for goods at any time with written notice to VENDOR, stating 
the extent and effective date of termination.  Upon receipt of this written notice, VENDOR shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, VENDOR shall 
be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted.
SECTION 9 - REMEDIES
In the event of VENDOR’s breach of this Contract, City may take any or all of the following 
actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the City by law:  (a) require 
Vendor to repair or replace such goods, and upon VENDOR’s failure or refusal to do so, repair or 
replace the same at VENDOR’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery containing defective or 
nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at VENDOR’s option, said return to be 
made at VENDOR’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by 
VENDOR as VENDOR’s repudiation of this contract.  In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, 
VENDOR’s exclusive remedy shall be VENDOR’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for 
goods shipped prior to such breach.
SECTION 10 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
VENDOR warrants that it will comply with all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules 
and regulations applicable to its performance under this Contract.  VENDOR shall obtain and maintain 
throughout the life of the Contract all permits or licenses required in connection with the manufacture, 
sale, and shipment of the products ordered under this Contract.  
SECTION 11 - ASSIGNMENT
VENDOR shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign any rights or claims 
under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent.
SECTION 12 - ARTWORK, DESIGNS, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS
VENDOR hereby agrees that the sale, use or incorporation into manufactured products of all 
machines, software, hardware, materials and other devices furnished under this Contract are free and 
clear of infringement of any valid patent, copyright, or trademark.  VENDOR shall hold the CITY 
harmless from any and all costs and expenses, including attorney fees, liability, and loss of any kind 
growing out of claims, suits or actions alleging such infringement, and VENDOR agrees to defend such 
claims, suits or actions.
215 of 268

--- page 216 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 4 of 8
Rev 7/21
SECTION 13 - GOVERNING LAW
The Purchase Order and the Contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed and 
governed by the laws of that state.
SECTION 14 - VENUE
This Contract shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.
SECTION 15 - WAIVER
The waiver of any term, condition or provision hereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of 
any other such term, condition or provision, nor shall such waiver be deemed a waiver of a subsequent 
breach of the same term, condition or provision.
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement.
SECTION 17 - MEDIATION
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board 
of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a 
"blindfolded" process.
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties.
216 of 268

--- page 217 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 5 of 8
Rev 7/21
SECTION 18 - NOTICES
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows:
To CITY:
Joanne Magrini
City of San Mateo
330 W 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
To VENDOR:
Thomas-Swan Sign Company, Inc.
Attn:  Mike Roberts
2717 Goodrick Ave.
Richmond, CA 94801
SECTION 19 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral.
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and VENDOR.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
217 of 268

--- page 218 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 6 of 8
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and THOMAS-SWAN SIGN COMPANY, INC. have 
executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
VENDOR
Alex Khojikian
City Manager
Date
Thomas-Swan Sign Company, Inc.
Mike Roberts
President
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Mazarin Vakharia
Assistant City Attorney
Date
218 of 268

--- page 219 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 7 of 8
Rev 7/21
EXHIBIT A
219 of 268

--- page 220 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods
Page 8 of 8
Rev 7/21
220 of 268

--- page 221 ---
ꢀꢁꢂꢁꢂꢃꢄꢅꢆꢇꢁꢈꢉꢊꢋꢋꢌꢈ
ꢀ-&E9&%E8788CꢁEA-/$-E#&$"4&E"E6"<076"2E&4#3&5E7'E9&4&4#9"6$&E/6E
ꢂꢃꢄꢅꢁE/;EA796E<7E-7679E"6%E4&479/"2/D&E=-7;&EA-7E+"@&E<-&/9E2/@&;E<7E
897<&$=E7?9E$7?6<9Cꢆ;E):&&%74ꢇEꢈ<ꢆ;E./;<79/$"2E977=;E%"<&E#"$1E<7E!792%E
!"9EꢉꢁEA-&6E"Eꢊ/&?<&6"6<Eꢋ7276&2EA";E7@&9$74&EA0<-E;7997AE"'<&9E"E
#"<<2&E/6E<-&E8788Cꢌ$7@&9&%Eꢍ2"6%&9;Eꢍ/&2%E06Eꢎ&2+/?4ꢏEꢀ-&Eꢋ7376&3E
A97=&E"E87&4E=7E$-"66&3E-/;E+9/&'ꢁE$"22&%Eꢐꢉ6Eꢍ2"6%&9;Eꢍ/&3%;ꢑꢒE
ꢀ-/;E87&4E$"?+-<E<-&E&C&E7'E"E897(&;;79E"<E<-&E 60@&9;/<CE7'Eꢓ&79+/"ꢁE
"6%E;-&E@7A&%E<7E"2A"C;EA&"9E"E9&%E8788CE/6E9&4&4#9"6$&E7'E<-7;&EA-7E
-"%E#&&6E3&'=E#&-/6%ꢒEꢔ-&E27##/&%E<7E4"1&E<-&E9&%E8788CE"E6"=/76"2E
4&479/"2E;C4#73ꢁE"6%E76Eꢔ&8<&4#&9EꢄꢕꢁEꢖꢃꢄꢅꢁE<-&E9&%E8788CE7*0$/"22CE
#&$"4&E<-&E ꢏꢔꢏE6"</76"2E&4#2&4E7'E9&4&4#9"6$&ꢏE
ꢗ&%E8788/&;E"9&E%766&%E76Eꢘ&479/"2Eꢙ"CE"6%E"2;7E76Eꢚ"</76"2Eꢛ788CE
ꢙ"CꢏEꢀ-&Eꢜ4&9/$"6Eꢊ&,/76Eꢜ?B/2/"9CEꢌ '&4"3&E9&2">/@&;E7'EA"9<04&E
@&<&9"6;ꢁE/;E<-&E4"/6E+97?8E<-"<E9"/;&;E476&CE<-97?+-E<-&E%/;<9/#?</76E
7'E$9&8&ꢝ8"8&9E8788/&;ꢞEꢀ-&;&E8788/&;E"9&E-"6%$9"'<&%E#CE@&<&9"6;E"6%E
897@/%&;E<-&4EA"+&;E"6%E"E<-&9"8&?</$E7?<2&<ꢒE
ꢀꢀꢁꢂ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃꢂꢄꢅꢆꢇꢈꢃꢉꢊꢋꢌꢌꢍꢉ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃꢄꢅꢆꢃꢅꢂꢇꢃꢈꢉꢊꢃꢋꢅꢆ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃꢄꢅ
ꢄꢆꢇꢈꢉꢊ
221 of 268

--- page 222 ---
ꢉꢃ ꢃꢋꢌꢈ
ꢊ
ꢀꢁꢋꢂ ꢂꢇ#ꢌꢄꢃꢅꢇꢁꢂꢌꢌ#ꢌꢄꢂꢂꢁ
ꢊꢆꢇꢍꢊꢂꢇꢄꢌ#!ꢅꢄꢎ#ꢂꢇꢏꢉꢃ ꢂꢐ#ꢇꢃꢊꢂꢌ
ꢀꢁꢑꢇꢅꢄ#ꢙꢚꢛꢜꢚ$ꢂꢄꢒꢎꢂꢐ#ꢝꢞꢛꢚ$ꢒꢆꢇꢒꢉꢂꢄꢂ#
ꢂꢁꢓꢃꢅꢇꢄꢂꢐ#ꢌꢄꢂꢂꢁ#ꢔꢌꢁꢅꢒꢂꢕ#ꢆꢖ#ꢗꢆꢗꢗ"#ꢅꢊꢃꢏꢂ#
ꢂꢁ"ꢂꢇꢒꢎ#(changed to curved wood
& metal)
ꢃꢁꢘꢂꢒꢆꢙꢃꢄꢅ ꢂ#ꢗꢃ ꢅꢇꢏ#
ꢄꢁꢚꢁꢍꢌꢎꢛꢊꢆꢍꢇꢄ#ꢁꢅꢏꢎꢄꢌ#ꢄꢆ#illuminate names
ꢀꢁꢂꢃꢄꢅꢁꢆꢇꢈ
# 3ꢀꢁꢂꢃꢄꢅꢆꢆ$ꢆꢀꢅꢅꢄ
# ꢇꢁꢈꢃꢀꢅꢉ$ꢆꢀꢅꢅꢄ
# ꢊꢀꢋꢌꢅꢉ$ꢋꢍꢃꢋꢎꢅꢀꢅ
ꢏꢌꢅꢃ$!ꢈꢅ"ꢅꢉ$ꢐꢎꢍꢑ$ꢍꢃꢅ$ꢆꢒꢅꢋꢈꢓꢈꢋ
ꢒꢍꢈꢃꢀꢔ$ꢀꢌꢅ$ꢆꢅ!ꢅꢃ$ꢑꢍꢃ ꢑꢅꢃꢀꢆ$
 ꢃꢈꢀꢅ$ꢀꢍ$ꢕꢖꢎꢑ$ꢁ$ꢆꢈꢃꢗꢄꢅ$ꢈꢑꢁꢗꢅꢘ$
ꢀ
$
ꢁ
ꢀ
 
ꢂ
ꢀꢁꢂ ꢃꢄꢅꢆꢇ#ꢈꢉꢆꢊ#ꢁꢃ!ꢇ#
ꢀꢀꢁꢂ
ꢆꢀꢁꢂꢃꢂꢄꢅꢆꢇꢈꢃꢉꢊꢋꢌꢌꢍꢉ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃꢄꢅ
ꢄꢆꢇꢈꢉꢊ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃꢄꢅꢆꢇꢈꢅꢇꢁꢉꢊꢆ
222 of 268

--- page 223 ---
Remembrance Poppy rm

GGG design
DESIGN CONCEPT BRR group

223 of 268


--- page 224 ---
Legend

(1) Seven steel monuments
with engraved names

ee EON Z Hi YY; 2) Decorative paving
,

i yy ; Dz wemensee |e | (4) Mottos etched in concrete
Uy

S

NSS5

SN

AY

SSIES

echNeACl
secant 1 A

want
ee

ay,

ye : OFSCOAL ana CAC LORE 2 wa 6) Existing tree
i,

4 ALR tn
c

POSS

YY,
Nie
Y,

li
1 # é

SS

SS

LOI ae
he Ties '
7 Hn /

i if Ui “if
~*~ ‘ i ia if  H lifer ‘

SS

=

SS

SS

SZVJ
=

SS

Yi MYM MY

YY , Yi]
YY, MM YY
i) MU MY HY

LM iY
Yi ih) MMM

Remembrance Poppy 8 TM

3 10 20" 30" 4G design
PLAN VIEW group

224 of 268



--- page 225 ---
Attachment 3

|'-4" WIDTH,
TYPICAL

1/8” THICKNESS,
TYPICAL

FALLEN HEROES MEMORIAL avs

MONUMENT DIMENSIONS / aa design
SAN MATEO, CA (il af Qroup

225 of 268


--- page 226 ---
ꢈꢉꢊꢋꢌꢍ#ꢉꢎ%ꢏꢐꢋꢑ ꢐꢉꢋ%
ꢍꢒ ꢓꢍꢉ%ꢁꢔ%
ꢕꢉꢋꢌꢁ$ꢕꢎ%ꢖꢍꢉꢖꢌꢕ ꢕꢗ%
ꢍꢒ ꢓꢍꢉ%ꢘꢔ%
ꢕꢉꢋꢌꢁ$ꢕꢎ%ꢋꢌꢁꢉꢓ ꢕ%
ꢙꢒꢑꢍ ꢍ%ꢖꢌꢕꢎꢓ ꢚ
ꢛꢁ%ꢜꢍꢝꢞꢁ%ꢕ!ꢖꢑꢓꢉꢋ
ꢃꢂꢁꢀ
ꢀꢁꢂꢂꢃꢄꢅ ꢆꢃꢇꢈꢃꢉꢅ ꢊꢃꢊꢈꢇꢋꢁꢂꢅ
ꢀꢁꢂꢃꢄꢅꢁꢆꢇꢈ
ꢀꢁꢂꢁꢃꢄꢅꢆꢇꢈꢉꢅꢊꢋꢊꢋꢅ
ꢀꢀꢁ
ꢅ
ꢄ
ꢂꢃ
ꢁ
ꢀꢀꢁꢂꢃꢄ
ꢀꢁꢂ%ꢃꢁ"ꢄꢅꢆ%ꢇꢁ%
226 of 268

--- page 227 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 87-2314
File ID: 23-8221
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
December 04, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Excess Workers' Compensation Insurance Policy for Calendar Years 2024 and 2025 – Purchase
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the purchase of excess workers' compensation insurance from Safety National in an amount projected to be 
$491,604.00 for the two-year period commencing January 1, 2024, and ending December 31, 2025.
BACKGROUND:
The City has been insured for excess workers' compensation coverage with Safety National since 2009. In September of 
2023, we requested that our benefits broker, Newfront, issue a bid request for coverage. The market for excess coverage 
in California is quite limited. Of the carriers contacted during the renewal process last year, only Safety National submitted 
a quote. Another carrier, Arch Insurance Co., indicated that they might be interested, but the premium they mentioned is 
significantly higher for the same level of self-insured retention. Municipal Code 3.60.050(c) provides that the City can forgo 
the competitive bidding process related to the placement of insurance coverage. 
Based on the information provided by Newfront, Safety National is now again offering a two-year policy; this type of policy 
was not offered during the years 2020 through 2023. Our current policy provides workers' compensation liability limits of 
$25 million with a $2 million employer liability limit and a self-insured retention (SIR) of $1 million for each occurrence. 
There is a $500,000 corridor deductible. 
There are two options available for renewal:
Option 1: Renew Workers’ Compensation Excess Coverage Policy with Safety National for a period of one (1) year.  The 
premium quoted by Safety National for a one-year policy is $245,802.00, which is an 8.64% increase compared to the 
premium for the current year ($226,244.00). Workers’ compensation liability limits will remain unchanged.
Option 2:  Renew Workers’ Compensation Excess Coverage Policy with Safety National for a period of two (2) years.  The 
premium quoted by Safety National for a two-year rate guarantee policy is $491,604.00 ($245,802.00 for the first year and 
$245,802.00 for the second year), which is an 8.64% increase in the first year of the policy compared to the premium for 
the current year ($226,244.00) and remains at the same for the second year of the policy, at $245,802.00 (0% increase in 
the premium). Workers’ compensation liability limits will remain unchanged compared to the current year policy. This 
option allows the City to avoid rate increase for the Workers’ Compensation Excess Coverage Policy in 2025.
To keep the premium at the same level for the second year of the policy, several conditions must be met, such as: 
•
Program Commitment Agreement is signed by the Employer and returned to Safety National within 60 days 
following the effective date of the Current Period. 
227 of 268

--- page 228 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
No certified “act of terrorism”, as defined under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 or any subsequent acts, 
amendments, or reauthorizations thereto (“TRIA”), occurs during the Current Period (1/1/2024-1/1/2025). 
•
No “pandemic” first originates and/or is first declared during the Current Period with “pandemic” defined as a 
disease prevalent throughout an entire state, country, continent, or world that meets either of the following 
criteria: 
(a) Such disease is declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization; or 
(b) Any branch or agency of the United States Federal Government, or any state covered by the Excess Policy(ies), 
declares the spread of such disease to be a public health emergency. 
•
No significant change in allocation of Exposure Basis (basis upon which the policy is rated and may include, but is 
not limited to, payroll or man hours) among states for the Renewal Period from that in place for the Current Period 
with “significant” being understood to mean a ±5% change in Exposure Basis of any state that represents more 
than 25% of the total policy Exposure Basis written in each preceding Liability Period or a ±50% change in Exposure 
Basis in any state that represents less than 25% of the total Exposure Basis for such preceding Liability Period.  
o
In other words, to keep the premium for CY 2025 at the same level as it is in 2024, the City’s Exposure 
Basis for CY 2025 should not change by more than 5% compared to the Exposure Basis for CY 2024.
•
No significant change in core business underwriting exposure, with “significant” being understood to mean a ±15% 
change in exposure for the Renewal Period over that in place for the Current Period.
•
No significant change in underwriting exposure through development of, or acquisition of, non-core business, with 
“significant” being understood to be a change in exposure that is in excess of 5% for the Renewal Period over that 
for the Current Period.
•
No new, individual incurred loss during the Current Period to exceed 75% of that Excess Policy's applicable 
SIR/Retention amount with such losses to be valued as of 10/1/2024.
•
No development of existing claims having a date of loss prior to the effective date of the Current Period, to exceed 
75% of the Excess Policy's applicable SIR/Retention amount with such losses to be valued as of 10/1/2024. 
o
The foregoing does not apply to specified claims that have been already taken into consideration for the 
premium pricing for the 2023 policy. 
Our broker, Newfront, is recommending that we utilize Option 2 for renewal due to the savings it provides.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The premium quoted by Safety National for 2023 for both options is calculated at a rate of $0.3706 per $100 of covered 
estimated payroll, which results in an expected expenditure of $245,802.00 for each year, over the next two years. This 
rate is an 8.64% increase from our 2023 annual premium of $226,244 at a rate of $0.3598 per $100 of covered estimated 
payroll. 
According to our broker, it would be most beneficial for the City to utilize Option 2, as this will allow the City to avoid 
potential rate increase in the year 2025. There are sufficient funds budgeted in the Workers' Compensation Fund for this 
expense. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Coverage Summary 
228 of 268

--- page 229 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Yuliya Shukhat, Senior Risk Management Analyst
yshukhat@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7263
229 of 268

--- page 230 ---
Newfront

Coo

an

Presented by: 2024-2025

Stephen Leveroni '
Executive Vice President/ Founding Principal (415) 385-0178 Excess Wo rke rs
steve.leveroni@newfront.com .
yd Compensation

ay Chung
SVP - Team Leader Commercial Lines (650) 412-7013 Renewal Pro pos al
gay.chung@newfront.com Prepared for

City of San Mateo

10/23/2023

230 of 268


--- page 231 ---
231 of 268

--- page 232 ---
232 of 268

--- page 233 ---
233 of 268

--- page 234 ---
234 of 268

--- page 235 ---
235 of 268

--- page 236 ---
236 of 268

--- page 237 ---
237 of 268

--- page 238 ---
Z08‘SvZ$

wei6oig pesodoig

z08‘Srz$ 9oze'0 (d) e€90‘Sze‘99$

(a) 000‘000'1$

000°
pepnjou|

ad) 000°00S$

(1) _000‘000‘2$

(1) 000‘000'sz$

|
|
|
|
|
|
08"

038'srz$

co)
-

jemouay

SZO7/LIL - VCO?/LIL
uo}je1odio5 Ayjensey jeuonen Ajyoyes

INVYSOYd GaSOd0udd

238 of 268

vy7'9zz$

6Bulidxy

v7‘ 972$ g6se0 (d) 929‘'088'29$ -NOILVSNAdINNOD SYSAMYOM SSS9X4 WLOL

ee V9 ‘SALVLS
Yr té<‘“isé*dS ST (a) 00000051 $ QOUBNIIO Jaq ‘UONUs}JeyY painsuy-jjas

ool [|  ——C—CisCis Jojoe 4 UOReOyIPOW eoualiedxy
} papnyou| uoneBoigns jo Janre vA Jeyuelg
| ‘| (a) o000'00s$ ajebaib6y jenuuy :(,uondwnseald,,) a[quonpeq JOpIOD
1 | G)__000‘000'z$ Ww Ager s,sieAojdwy

vee 9ez$ |__| _()_000‘000'sz$ Q0USHINIIO JOq WWI] WNWIXe/\
| winimeid | aye | aunsodxg NOILVSN3dNO9 SYSMYOM SS3OX

Buidxy
VCOCILIL - EZOS/LIL

uoneiodiog Ayjensey jeuoijen Ajyayes
6Bulidxy

LNOYAMAN
o9}e IN ungao Aus “owen ono UOSI J ed WUOD) 9beL DA0D)


--- page 239 ---
239 of 268

--- page 240 ---
240 of 268

--- page 241 ---
Additional Items

Coverage: Option/Higher Self-Insured Retention Limits

«= See Executive Summary and Workers' Compensation Summary Pages

You have a unique risk profile. We look at your risk
management needs along with industry benchmarks,
so that you have a smart program that aligns with
your goals and reflects your company culture.

Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc. Confidential and Proprietary: Reproduction or disclosure of this material is prohibited without the written
consent of Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc

This is an overview of your insurance program. Policy conditions, exclusions and/or terms in this summary may be limited. Refer to your policy for all
conditions, exclusions and/or terms. In the event they differ, the policy will prevail. Higher limits may be available upon request.
©2020 Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved | License #OH55918

12 241 of 268


--- page 242 ---
Subjectivities
Coverage

« Proposal Acceptance Page

At Newfront, we see things differently than other \ } 7
consulting companies do. We look at protection as a Qs =
tool to progress, not simply as a barrier to risk. We

offer the freedom to create a healthy business and
support your brand for a brighter tomorrow.

Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc. Confidential and Proprietary: Reproduction or disclosure of this material is prohibited without the written
consent of Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc

This is an overview of your insurance program. Policy conditions, exclusions and/or terms in this summary may be limited. Refer to your policy for all
conditions, exclusions and/or terms. In the event they differ, the policy will prevail. Higher limits may be available upon request.
©2020 Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved | License #OH55918

13 242 of 268


--- page 243 ---
243 of 268

--- page 244 ---
244 of 268

--- page 245 ---
245 of 268

--- page 246 ---
246 of 268

--- page 247 ---
247 of 268

--- page 248 ---
248 of 268

--- page 249 ---
249 of 268

--- page 250 ---
250 of 268

--- page 251 ---
251 of 268

--- page 252 ---
Company Highlights

Newfront is a full-service brokerage and consulting firm, crafting innovative solutions
to help address risk for clients of varying growth, sizes, stages, and industries across
the globe.

16 92.46 700+ (77

Number of Premium Employees Net
Specialized Volume Promoter
Industries Score

Practices Global Reach
Local knowledge and experience WB

in 500 offices

Employee Benefits

Executive Risk Solutions

HR Services .
In over 1 00 countries
M&A Advisory
Private Client Services Property & on 6 continents
Casualty
Retirement Services Founding Member of BrokerTech
Ventures, the convener of broker-centric

Wholesale Benefits Brokerlech innovation.

Accolades

Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc. Confidential and Proprietary: Reproduction or disclosure of this material is prohibited without the written
consent of Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc

This is an overview of your insurance program. Policy conditions, exclusions and/or terms in this summary may be limited. Refer to your policy for all
conditions, exclusions and/or terms. In the event they differ, the policy will prevail. Higher limits may be available upon request.

©2020 Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved | License #OH55918
23 252 of 268


--- page 253 ---
BP
 ¢ |W] We’re building the modern insurance

BEST PLACES 10 WORE experience

1008!

HEALTHIEST

Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc. Confidential and Proprietary: Reproduction or disclosure of this material is prohibited without the written
consent of Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc

This is an overview of your insurance program. Policy conditions, exclusions and/or terms in this summary may be limited. Refer to your policy for all
conditions, exclusions and/or terms. In the event they differ, the policy will prevail. Higher limits may be available upon request.

©2020 Newfront Insurance Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved | License #OH55918
24 253 of 268


--- page 254 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2021
File ID: 23-8230
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
December 4, 2023
SUBJECT:
Receipt and Use of Development Impact Fees and In-Lieu Fees – Annual Report
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to make findings and accept the annual report on receipt and use of development impact fees and in-
lieu fees for the year ended June 30, 2023. 
BACKGROUND:
Development Impact Fees
The City of San Mateo assesses four development impact fees – Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase II Expansion Fee, 
Transportation Improvement Fee, South Trunk Area Sewer Improvement Fee, and Park Impact Fee.
Local governments often charge fees as a condition of approval for development projects to fund public improvements in 
order to compensate for the demands that the developments have on public resources. These fees are commonly known 
as development impact fees. In 1989, the State Legislature passed Assembly Bill 1600 (AB 1600), which added Sections 
66000 et seq. to the California Government Code, commonly known as the Mitigation Fee Act. Government Code Section 
66006 requires that the City make available to the public the following information regarding development impact fees 
within 180 days after the end of each fiscal year:
1.
A brief description of the type of fee.
2.
The amount of the fee.
3.
The fee’s beginning and ending balances for the fiscal year.
4.
Total fees collected and the interest earned, if applicable.
5.
Identification of each public improvement on which impact fees were expended and the amount of expenditure 
on each improvement, including the total percentage of the cost of the public improvement that was funded with 
impact fees.
6.
Identification and timeline of public improvements any unexpended fees will be used for.
a.
This information is listed in Exhibit A to the Resolution. Exhibit A shows the five-year plan for public 
improvement projects and their anticipated expenditures related to the Mitigation Fee Act and Quimby 
Act. Specific details on each of the projects listed in Exhibit A can be found in the five-year capital 
improvement program section in the City’s 2023-24 Budget, which was adopted by City Council on June 
20, 2023.
7.
Description and uses for transfers or loans of fees, if applicable.
8.
Amounts of any refunds and allocations.
Further, the Mitigation Fee Act requires that findings describing the continuing need for impact fees  be made every five 
years specifying the intended use of any unexpended impact fees, regardless of whether the fees are committed or 
254 of 268

--- page 255 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
uncommitted. If findings are not presented as scheduled, the City may be subjected to go through a refunding procedure. 
The City is opting to make such findings every year.
In-Lieu Fees
In-lieu fees are fees that are collected by the City instead of requiring developers to provide or construct specified 
improvements or amenities with their projects. The City of San Mateo assesses five in-lieu fees – Parking In-Lieu Fee, Art in 
Public Places Fee, Tree Replacement Fee, Below Market Rate Housing Fee, and Park In-Lieu Fee. 
Park
 In-Lieu Fees are assessed pursuant to the Quimby Act under Government Code Section 66477. The other in-lieu fees do 
not have statutory reporting requirements but are included in this report. In an abundance of caution, and based on recent 
caselaw, this report and resolution include the same reporting requirements and findings for in-lieu fees that apply to 
impact fees.  Under the Quimby Act, local governments may require the dedication of land for parks or the payment of 
fees in-lieu of land dedication as a condition of subdivision map approval. While park in-lieu fees are exempt from the 
reporting requirements included in the Mitigation Fee Act, these fees have separate Quimby Act reporting requirements, 
specifically:
1.
The City must develop a schedule specifying the use of land or fees to develop park or recreational facilities to 
serve the residents of the subdivision. 
2.
Any Quimby fees collected must be committed within five years after the payment of the fees or the issuance of 
building permits on one-half of the lots created by the subdivision, whichever occurs later. 
3.
If not committed, the fees shall be distributed and paid to the record owners of the subdivision in the same 
proportion that the size of the lot bears to the total area of lots within the subdivision (Gov. Code section 
66477(a)(6)).
Linkage Fees
Linkage fees are exactions for social needs indirectly related to development projects. The City of San Mateo assesses two 
linkage fees – Child Care Development Fee and Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee. While these are linkage fees, 
they are included in this report with reporting requirements under the Mitigation Fee Act for informational purposes and 
to make sure that information is available in the event that a court rules in the future that linkage fees are subject to the 
reporting requirements of the Mitigation Fee Act. 
This report complies with requirements of the Mitigation Fee Act and the Quimby Act outlined above.
Analysis
Development Impact Fees
Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase II Expansion FeeWastewater Treatment Plant Phase II Expansion Fee
In April 2005, construction began to increase capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, and construction was 
substantially completed in the spring of 2009. Funds from the Sewer Enterprise Fund were used to pay for the expansion 
project. Under a Joint Powers Agreement (JPA), the treatment plant is partially owned by the Estero Municipal 
Improvement District (Foster City). Based on San Mateo’s share of the treatment plant and based on the total projected 
cost attributable to development based on the 2005 expansion study, the amount that is to be recovered through 
development fees is $3.52 million in total. 
The Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase II Expansion Fee is imposed on all development that results in a change of use and 
that adds more sewage to the City’s sewage treatment system. The fee took effect on July 1, 2006 and will continue to be 
charged until $3.52 million is collected. Funds collected are transferred annually to the fund balance of the Sewer 
Enterprise Fund as a repayment to the Fund for the expansion cost. The fee is charged as shown in the 2022-23 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule on page 10.8. The fees are determined by reference to site sewer study or engineering 
standards.
 
255 of 268

--- page 256 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The following table shows collections in 2022-23, as well as collections to date.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Expansion Impact Fee
2022-23
Beginning Balance
 $                       -   
Developer Fees
 $              18,007
Interest Income / (Expense)
 $                       -   
Transfer to Sewer Enterprise Fund
 $            (18,007)
Ending Balance
 $                       -   
 
Collections to 
Date
Total Developer Fees Collected as of 2022-23
 $        2,864,310 
Total Developer Fees Needed
 $        3,520,000 
% Collected
81%
Transportation Improvement Fee
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.13 establishes a transportation improvement fee for new development to fund 
City-wide traffic improvements to mitigate the cumulative impacts of new development and to accommodate future 
development. The fee is charged as shown in the 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule:
Residential
•
Single-family
Per dwelling unit
$6,867.99
•
Multi-family
Per dwelling unit
$3,468.58
Commercial and Industrial
•
Retail            
Per 1,000 sq. ft.
$27,735.48
•
Office
           Per 1,000 sq. ft.
  $8,366.76
•
Industrial
 
Per 1,000 sq. ft.                $4,589.64
•
Hotel
Per Room
          
 $4,367.84
•
Institution
Per 1,000 sq. ft.
 $3,568.50
The following table shows activities in 2022-23.
Transportation Improvement Fee
2022-23
Beginning Balance
 $                257,416
Developer Fees
 $                  10,353
Interest Income / (Expense)
 $                    7,849
Expenditures
 $             (146,717)
Reclassification of Prior Years
 $                186,802
Ending Balance
 $                315,704 
2022-23
 
 
 
Transportation Improvement Fee
 Total Expended 
 Impact Fees Used 
% of Total
Project Expenditures:
460037 El Camino at Highway 92 Landscape Improvements
$                   33,362
$                   33,362
100%
460049 Poplar/Humboldt Signal Modify-Left Turn
$                         470 $                         470 
100%
466600 Citywide Traffic Calming
$                 144,531 
 $                   112,631 
78%
46R008 Railroad Ave Wall Enhancement
$                          524 $                         524
100%
Total Expenditures:
$                 178,886
 $                   146,717
82%
256 of 268

--- page 257 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The total ending balance as of the end of fiscal year was $315,704. The fund balance and continued collection of the 
Transportation Improvement Fee will be utilized to fund the project(s) listed in Exhibit A.     
Park Impact Fee
Under San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 13.05, a park impact fee is imposed on the construction of new residential units 
to accommodate the increased demand on park and recreation facilities. The fee is charged as shown in the 2022-23 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule:
Per residential unit type:
Single family
$29,598 per unit
Multi-family 2-4 units
$27,172 per unit
Multi-family 5+ units
$20,476 per unit
Mobile homes
$17,564 per unit
The following table shows activities in 2022-23.
Park Impact Fee
2022-23
Beginning Balance
$     3,436,986
Developer Fees
$           27,172
Interest Income / (Expense)
$                     -
Expenditures
$                     - 
Ending Balance
$     3,464,158 
The total ending balance as of the end of fiscal year was $3,464,158. The fund balance and continued collection of the Park 
Impact Fee will be utilized to fund the project(s) listed in Exhibit A.   
The Council is asked to make the following findings regarding development impact fees collected but not expended – these 
findings are detailed in the proposed resolution:
1.
Development impact fees are collected to mitigate direct and indirect impacts from development.
2.
These funds are expended in a timely manner to fund continued improvements to public facilities related to the 
increased demand on the facilities resulting from development.
3.
There is a reasonable relationship between these impact fees and their purpose.
4.
These impact fees continue to be required to fund applicable improvements, and as such, these fees will continue 
to be collected for utilization solely for their intended purpose.
In-Lieu Fees
Parking In-Lieu Fee
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 11.62 establishes a parking in-lieu fee for new development to fund for additional 
parking in downtown San Mateo. Applicants for planning approval within the Central Parking Improvement District may 
pay a fee in lieu of providing required parking on the property site in accordance with Title 27 of the municipal code. As 
shown in the 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule, the fee is $57,699.90 per space.
The following table shows activities in 2022-23.
Parking In-Lieu Fee
2022-23
Beginning Balance
 $    5,865,562 
Developer Fees
 $        515,658
Interest Income / (Expense)
 $        130,587 
Expenditures
 $     (515,658)
Ending Balance
 $    5,996,149 
257 of 268

--- page 258 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The total ending balance as of the end of fiscal year was $5,996,149. The fund balance and continued collection of the 
Parking In-Lieu Fee will be utilized to fund the project(s) listed in Exhibit A.   
Art in Public Places Fee
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.60 establishes a fee on developers in lieu of placing approved artwork at the 
development sites to balance the community’s physical growth and revitalization with its cultural and artistic resources. 
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family residential projects exceeding three million dollars in building permit 
valuation, which is computed using the latest building valuation data as set forth by the International Conference of 
Building Officials (ICBO) unless, in the opinion of the Building Official, a different valuation measure should be used. As 
shown in the 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule, the fee is charged 1.19% of total building valuation.
The following table shows activities in 2022-23.
Art in Public Places Fee
2022-23
Beginning Balance
 $          999,947
Developer Fees
 $               7,082
Interest Income / (Expense)
 $             23,461 
Expenditures
 $            (7,082) 
Ending Balance
 $       1,023,408
The total ending balance as of the end of fiscal year was $1,023,408. The fund balance and continued collection of the Art 
in Public Places Fee will be utilized to fund the project(s) listed in Exhibit A.
Tree Replacement Fee
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.71 establishes a fee on all development requiring approval of a planning 
application, except for single-family dwelling design review applications, for the removal of existing trees on development 
sites. The fee is imposed if the trees to be removed are not made up with replacement trees on-site. As shown in the 2022-
23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule, the fee is charged $740 per landscape unit, which is a unit of measurement that indicates 
the value of each tree that is to be removed relative to the tree that is to be replaced. 
Under San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 13.35, the City may also impose a fee on any person or entity for removing 
trees that encroach on City streets. The fee is imposed if the tree to be removed is not replanted with a like tree satisfying 
City requirements. The fee is to be used by the City for plantings on public land. As shown in the 2022-23 Comprehensive 
Fee Schedule, the tree replacement cost is $740 per tree.
The following table shows activities in 2022-23.
Tree Replacement Fee
      2022-23
Beginning Balance
 $       1,178,640
Developer Fees
 $          149,523 
Interest Income / (Expense)
 $                    87
Expenditures
 $        (149,523)
Ending Balance
 $       1,178,727
2022-23
 
 
 
Tree Replacement Fee
 Total Expended  In-Lieu Fees Used 
% of Total
Project Expenditures:
610008 Tree Planting - Parks Division
 $            152,803 
 $               149,523
98%
Total Expenditures:
 $            152,803 
 $               149,523
98%
The total ending balance as of the end of fiscal year was $1,178,727. The fund balance and continued collection of the Tree 
258 of 268

--- page 259 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Replacement Fee will be utilized to fund the project(s) listed in Exhibit A.   
Below Market Rate Housing Fee
The Below Market Rate Housing Fee, which became effective January 1, 2010 pursuant to City Council Resolution No. 121 
(2008), is collected from developers in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite as required under the City’s 
Below Market Rate program. The fee applies to developments that contain fewer than 11 residential units, and to 
fractional unit requirements of less than .5 for developments that contain 11 or more units. The fee is charged as shown in 
the 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule:
A. Fractional required units for projects 
consisting of 11 or more residential units
1.
Rental
0.1 housing unit
$30,788
0.2 housing unit
$61,577
0.3 housing unit
$92,365
0.4 housing unit
$123,153
2.
Owner
0.1 housing unit
$27,354
0.2 housing unit
$54,708
0.3 housing unit
$82,062
0.4 housing unit
$109,416
B. Requirement for projects less than 11 units
1.
Rental
5 unit project
$153,942
6 unit project
$184,730
7 unit project
$215,519
8 unit project
$246,307
9 unit project
$277,095
10 unit project
$307,884
2.
Owner
5 unit project
$136,770
6 unit project
$164,124
7 unit project
$191,478
8 unit project
$218,832
9 unit project
$246,186
10 unit project
$273,540
The following table shows activities in 2022-23.
Below Market Rate Housing Fee
2022-23
Beginning Balance
 $          253,820 
Developer Fees
 $                  461   
Interest Income / (Expense)
 $                      -   
Expenditures
 $                      -   
Ending Balance
 $          254,281 
The total ending balance as of the end of the fiscal year was $254,281. A public improvement project is not currently 
identified in the five-year plan. The Below Market Rate Housing Fee will continue to be collected to build its fund balance, 
and potential housing related projects will be identified as the fund balance reaches to an appropriate level. 
Park In-Lieu Fee
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 26.64 establishes a park in-lieu fee on subdivisions in residential planning application 
projects. Pursuant to the authority of the Subdivision Map Act, and in conformity with the parks and recreation element of 
the General Plan, the fee is imposed as a condition of final approval of a subdivision or parcel map for park and recreation 
259 of 268

--- page 260 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
facilities to serve the subdivision. The fee is charged as shown in the 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule:
Per residential unit type:
Single family
$29,598 per unit
Multi-family 2-4 units
$27,172 per unit
Multi-family 5+ units
$20,476 per unit
Mobile homes
$17,564 per unit
The following table shows activities in 2022-23.
Park In-Lieu Fee
2022-23
Beginning Balance
 $    9,048,433
Developer Fees
 $                   -
Interest Income / (Expense)
 $                   - 
Expenditures
 $                   -
Ending Balance
 $    9,048,433
No fees were collected or expended in 2022-23, and the total ending balance as of the end of the fiscal year was 
$9,048,433. The fund balance and continued collection of the Park In-Lieu Fee will be utilized to fund the project(s) listed 
in Exhibit A.   
Linkage Fees
Child Care Development Fee
The Child Care Development Fee, which became effective on July 1, 2004 pursuant to City Council Resolution No. 34 
(2004), is collected to mitigate the impact of commercial development on the need for child care facilities. The fee is 
charged as shown in the 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule:
Per Dwelling unit:
Single family
$4,412.54
Multi-family
$3,182.51
Per Sq. Ft.:
Retail
$0.37
Office
Industrial
$0.63
$0.21
Hotel
$0.13
The following table shows activities in 2022-23.
Child Care Development Fee
2022-23
Beginning Balance
 $   2,156,369 
Developer Fees
 $           2,400
Interest Income / (Expense)
 $         50,584 
Expenditures
 $         (2,400)
Ending Balance
 $    2,206,953
260 of 268

--- page 261 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2022-23
 
 
 
Child Care Development Fee
 Total Expended 
 In-Lieu Fees Used 
% of Total
Project Expenditures:
310600 Child Care Facilities
$                 2,400
$                 2,400
100%
Total Expenditures:
$                 2,400
$                 2,400
100%
The total ending balance as of the end of the fiscal year was $2,206,953. The fund balance and continued collection of the 
Child Care Development Fee will be utilized to fund the project(s) listed in Exhibit A.
Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.61 establishes an Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee to mitigate the 
impact that developments have on the demand for affordable housing in the City. The fee is imposed on commercial 
projects over 5,000 sq. ft. and is charged as shown in the 2022-23 Comprehensive Fee Schedule:
Hotels
Per square foot
$12.46
Retail, restaurants, and services
Per square foot
$  6.23
Office, research & development uses, and medical offices
Per square foot
$31.14
The fee does not apply to public use developments such as hospitals, nonprofit and government facilities, as well as 
churches, schools, and child care centers. Developers who enter written agreements to pay area standard wages to all 
construction workers on the project are entitled to a 25% reduction of the fee. Additionally, developers may provide 
construction of affordable housing units in lieu of the fee payment.
The following table shows activities in 2022-23.
Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee
2022-23
Beginning Balance
 $    3,159,518 
Developer Fees
 $                    - 
Interest Income / (Expense)
 $          91,269 
Miscellaneous items
 $          (4,936)
Expenditures
 $                    - 
Ending Balance
 $    3,245,851 
The total ending balance as of the end of fiscal year was $3,245,851. The fund balance and continued collection of the 
Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee will be utilized to fund the project(s) listed in Exhibit A.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact resulting from this report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code Section 66006, all meeting noticing requirements were met. This information was 
made available to the public at least 15 days before the meeting. 
261 of 268

--- page 262 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution - Exhibit A: Public Improvement Project Expenditures Related to the Mitigation Fee Act and 
Quimby Act Five-Year Plan
STAFF CONTACT
Karley Toffey, Senior Management Analyst 
ktoffey@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7106 
Renee Halcon, Acting Budget Manager 
rhalcon@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7127
Karen Huang, Finance Director 
khuang@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7102
262 of 268

--- page 263 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO.
(2023)
ACCEPTING THE ANNUAL REPORT ON RECEIPT AND USE OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES, IN-LIEU FEES, 
AND LINKAGE FEES FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2023 AND MAKING FINDINGS REGARDING 
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES AND IN-LIEU FEES COLLECTED BUT NOT EXPENDED
WHEREAS, Government Code Sections 66000 et seq., commonly known as the Mitigation Fee
Act, regulate the imposition, collections, expenditure, and reporting of development impact fees; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 66001 requires that certain information be made 
available to the public regarding development impact fees on an annual basis; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 66001 requires the City Council to make findings describing 
the continuing need for impact fees every five years specifying the intended use of any unexpended 
impact fees; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo assesses four development impact fees – Wastewater Treatment 
Plant Phase II Expansion Fee, Transportation Improvement Fee, South Trunk Area Sewer Improvement Fee, 
and Park Impact Fee; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo also collects in-lieu fees and linkage fees; and
WHEREAS, even though a court has not yet ruled that linkage fees are subject to the state 
Mitigation Fee reporting requirements, the City of San Mateo adheres to those requirements for linkage 
fees in addition to development impact fees, and, based on recent caselaw, in-lieu fees;
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of San Mateo has read and considered the Development 
Impact Fees, In-Lieu Fees, and Linkage Fees Annual Report for the Year Ended June 30, 2023, and all 
accompanying attachments.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, 
FINDS AND RESOLVES, that:
1.
Acceptance of this report is an administrative activity that will not impact the environment and is 
therefore exempt from CEQA review in accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15378(b)(5).
2.
The City Council accepts the Development Impact Fees, In-Lieu Fees, and Linkage Fees Annual Report 
(Report) for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2023, with attachments, and a copy is on file in the City 
Clerk’s Office.
3.
Based on the Report and the schedule for expenditure of improvements attached as Exhibit A to this 
resolution, the City Council makes the following findings with regard to the development impact fees, 
in-lieu fees, and linkage fees collected but not expended in Fiscal Year 2022-2023 and listed below:
263 of 268

--- page 264 ---
a.   Transportation Improvement Fee
(1) This fee is used to build transportation infrastructure that is necessary to serve 
new development.
(2) There is a reasonable relationship between the fee and its purpose, because the 
amount of the fee is determined based on the anticipated amount of traffic that will be 
generated by new development.
(3) The sources and amounts of funding anticipated to complete the financing of the 
incomplete public improvements are shown in Exhibit A.
(4) The approximate dates on which the necessary funding is expected to be 
deposited are shown in Exhibit A.
b.   Park Impact Fee
(1) This fee is used to develop parkland and parkland improvements that are 
necessary to serve new development.
(2) There is a reasonable relationship between the fee and its purpose, because the 
amount of the fee is determined based on the need for parkland and parkland 
improvements that will be generated by new development.
(3) The sources and amounts of funding anticipated to complete the planned projects are 
shown in Exhibit A.
(4) The approximate dates on which the necessary funding is expected to be 
deposited are shown in Exhibit A. 
c.   Child Care Development Fee
(1) This fee will be used to support child care facilities that are necessary in order to 
serve new development.
(2) There is a reasonable relationship between the fee and its purpose, because the 
amount of the fee is determined based upon the anticipated need for child care that will 
be generated by new commercial development.
(3) The sources and amounts of funding expected to complete the anticipated projects are 
shown in Exhibit A.
(4) The approximate dates on which the necessary funding is expected to be 
deposited are shown in Exhibit A.
d.   Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee
(1) This fee will be used to support affordable housing that are necessary in order to 
serve new development.
(2) There is a reasonable relationship between the fee and its purpose, because the 
amount of the fee is determined based upon the anticipated need for affordable housing 
that will be generated by new commercial development.
(3) The sources and amounts of funding expected to complete the anticipated projects 
are shown in Exhibit A.
(4) The approximate dates on which the necessary funding is expected to be deposited 
are shown in Exhibit A.
264 of 268

--- page 265 ---
e.   Parking In-Lieu Fee
(1) This fee will be used to support for new development to fund for additional parking in 
downtown San Mateo.
(2) There is a reasonable relationship between the fee and its purpose, because the 
amount of the fee is determined based upon the anticipated need for additional parking 
that will be generated by new development.
(3) The sources and amounts of funding expected to complete the anticipated projects 
are shown in Exhibit A.
(4) The approximate dates on which the necessary funding is expected to be deposited 
are shown in Exhibit A.
f.   Art in Public Places Fee
(1) This fee will be used to support placing approved artwork at the development sites to 
balance the community’s physical growth and revitalization with its cultural and artistic 
resources.
(2) There is a reasonable relationship between the fee and its purpose, because the 
amount of the fee is determined based upon the anticipated cost of future artwork 
related to future development.
(3) The sources and amounts of funding expected to complete the anticipated projects 
are shown in Exhibit A.
(4) The approximate dates on which the necessary funding is expected to be deposited 
are shown in Exhibit A.
g.   Tree Replacement Fee
(1) This fee will be used for plantings on public land where applicants remove existing 
trees on development sites.
(2) There is a reasonable relationship between the fee and its purpose, because the 
amount of the fee is determined based upon the value of each tree that is to be removed 
relative to the tree that is to be replaced.
(3) The sources and amounts of funding expected to complete the anticipated projects 
are shown in Exhibit A.
(4) The approximate dates on which the necessary funding is expected to be deposited 
are shown in Exhibit A.
h.   Below Market Rate Housing Fee
(1) This fee will be used to support affordable housing that is necessary in order to serve 
new development.
(2) There is a reasonable relationship between the fee and its purpose, because the 
amount of the fee is determined based upon the anticipated need for affordable housing 
265 of 268

--- page 266 ---
that will be generated by new development.
(3) The Below Market Rate Housing Fee will continue to be collected to build its fund 
balance, and potential housing related projects will be identified as the fund balance 
reaches to an appropriate level.
i.     Park In-Lieu Fee
(1) This fee will be used for park and recreation facilities to serve the subdivision.
(2) There is a reasonable relationship between the fee and its purpose, because the 
amount of the fee is determined based upon the anticipated need for park and 
recreation facilities that will be generated by new subdivisions.
(3) The sources and amounts of funding expected to complete the anticipated projects 
are shown in Exhibit A.
(4) The approximate dates on which the necessary funding is expected to be deposited 
are shown in Exhibit A.
266 of 268

--- page 267 ---
Exhibit A
City of San Mateo
Public Improvement Project Expenditures Related to the Mitigation Fee Act and Quimby Act
Five-Year Plan
* Specific details on each of these projects can be found in the five-year capital improvement program section in the City’s 2023-24 Budget, 
which is adopted by City Council on June 20, 2023.
267 of 268

--- page 268 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Martin McTaggart
Subject:
FW: Council rotation
Date:
Monday, December 4, 2023 8:40:50 AM
 
 
Patrice M. Olds, MMC
City Clerk
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
www.cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
 
From: Stacy Jimenez-Councilmember 
 
Sent: Monday, December 4, 2023 8:07 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Council rotation
 
Dear Council,
 
I wish to first congratulate you all on a year well done. Despite a bumpy beginning, as
a new council you have been able to come together, transcending differences in
personality and ideology, and unite over your shared love of San Mateo. Thank you to
outgoing Mayor Amourance Lee for your leadership.
 
As Foster City shares your meeting schedule, I will be unable to speak in person, but
I nevertheless wanted to express my hope and expectation that you will continue to
work together, and allow for a smooth and quick rotation of the positions tonight
without drama or unnecessary histrionics, particularly because many eyes both within
San Mateo and beyond will be watching. 
 
It has been said that a true leader leads from any seat, and I hope that your city and
the rest of San Mateo county will see that tonight. I look forward to continuing to
watch this strong and capable council represent San Mateo well.
 
Best of luck to the new mayor and vice-mayor!
 
Regards,
 
Stacy Jimenez
Councilmember, Foster City
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS
268 of 268