source: packet.pdf
sha256: 98de0d0d22a4c03491fa2c97189e1d00fe9e342658803c994df0e4d89475b789
pages: 68
ocr_pages: 10
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting 
March 20, 2023
5:30 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: March 20, 2023 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 861 9357 8718      Passcode: 889690
Council Member Rich Hedges will teleconference into this meeting from:
2405 Kalanianaole Avenue – PH-11 Hilo, Hawaii 96720
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
 
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Initiation of litigation pursuant to paragraph (4) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9: One case
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
2.
Leaf Blower Regulations
Receive a report and presentation on leaf blower regulations and provide feedback and guidance on potential
leaf blower policy approaches.
CEQA: This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will
not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
1 of 68

--- page 2 ---
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 68

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-7247
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 20, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Leaf Blower Regulations
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive a report and presentation on leaf blower regulations and provide feedback and guidance on potential leaf blower 
policy approaches.
BACKGROUND:
As part of the 2022-23 Strategic Plan, the San Mateo City Council asked staff to evaluate leaf blower policy options and 
best practices from other cities. Regulating leaf blowers can help address their environmental and greenhouse gas 
emission reduction impact, as well as noise and air quality impacts. This report provides an overview of leaf blower 
impacts and the City’s history with leaf blower regulations since this topic was extensively reviewed by City Council 
between 2011 and 2013 and revisited by the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission in 2020 and most recently in 
November 2022. This report reviews leaf blower policy approaches for the City Council’s feedback and consideration. 
CITY HISTORY WITH LEAF BLOWER REGULATIONS
The City of San Mateo currently has time of day restrictions for leaf blowers in residential zoning districts and in areas 
bordering residentially-zoned neighborhoods. San Mateo Municipal Code Section 10.80 “Operation of Leaf Blowers” 
(Attachment 4) limits the use of leaf blowers to between 8:00 am to 5:00 pm on weekdays and between 9:00 am to 5:00 
pm on Saturdays. The use of leaf blowers is prohibited on Sundays and holidays. In addition, the code requires that leaf 
blowers run at low speeds and use nozzle extensions to minimize noise. These restrictions have been in place since 1997.
 
In 2011 through 2013, staff from the Community Development Department led a comprehensive exploration of leaf 
blower regulations in response to community complaints about noise and air quality impacts. Staff brought forward 
reports to City Council on five separate occasions.  At a March 2013 City Council meeting, staff presented three options for 
updating the leaf blower ordinance: 
1)
Improve enforcement of current ordinance 
2)
Implement a certification and enforcement program limiting leaf blowers that meet a 65 decibel (dB) threshold
3)
Implement complete ban on gas and electric leaf blowers
Ultimately, the City Council did not move forward to any of the three options primarily because of concerns of the 
economic impact to commercial landscapers and challenges with enforcement. Many of the commercial landscapers in San 
Mateo are small businesses or sole-proprietorships and many are also minority-owned. A complete leaf blower ban would 
require landscapers to spend more time per job site, impacting the number of jobs they could complete and therefore 
potentially reduce their revenues. Establishing a new decibel limit on leaf blowers would require many commercial 
landscapers to purchase new equipment, another financial burden to landscapers. If commercial landscapers passed on 
3 of 68

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the cost of the new equipment or job time to their customers, concerns were raised regarding affordability for those with 
fixed incomes who rely on landscaping services. Additionally, for all of the policy options, City Council was concerned 
about the financial commitment from the City to develop effective enforcement. 
 
During the pandemic, as a result of many people working from home, the City received an uptick in complaints about leaf 
blower noise, which prompted the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission to request that leaf blower policy options 
be brought before them for consideration. At the November 12, 2020, the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
received a report on leaf blower regulations and different policy approaches to restricting gas leaf blower use. Staff 
presented four options for consideration:
1)
Noise and/or time of day restrictions
2)
Temporary leaf blower ban days
3)
Gas leaf blower ban, and 
4)
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban.
The majority of Commissioners declined to make a recommendation to City Council to update leaf blower regulations. 
Commissioners acknowledged that commercial landscapers, who are also small businesses, would be significantly 
impacted by potential leaf blower restrictions and were likely already struggling to retain customers in the face of the 
pandemic. Commissioners were also concerned about recommending the Council take up leaf blower regulations at a time 
when there were so many other pressing COVID-19 issues and community concerns. Finally, Commissioners were 
interested to understand the State’s timeline to phase out the sale of new gas equipment to help evaluate potential leaf 
blower regulations. Commissioners directed staff to prioritize incentives for electric leaf blowers.  
On July 1, 2021, staff launched the Electric Leaf Blower rebate program. The program provides a rebate of up to 75% of the 
purchase price (maximum $500) to commercial landscapers and up to 50% of the purchase price (maximum $100) to 
residents. Using the City’s business license information, mailers were sent to landscaping business in San Mateo to alert 
businesses about the rebate opportunity. The mailing list included roughly 150 businesses. Rebate information was also 
included in the City’s e-newsletter and social media channels. To date, the City has issued rebates to 8 landscaping 
businesses and 32 residents. The average rebate for a landscaping business is $375 and the average rebate for a resident is 
$75. 
ELECTRIC EQUIPMENT AND CITY PARKS OPERATIONS 
City Parks staff have been piloting electric equipment since 2018 and recognizing the State’s goal to prohibit the sale of 
two-stroke engine equipment and the City’s climate goals, is preparing for a transition to electric equipment and making a 
conscious effort to reduce reliance on leaf blowers. The Parks Department goal is to provide safe and attractive parks 
while maintaining current levels of debris removal. Parks Department maintains 280,890 square feet of parking lot and 
pathways. 
During the fiscal year 2020-21, the Parks Department purchased $8,000 in electric equipment including backpack and 
handheld blowers, hedge trimmers, chain saws and weed trimmers. Using the electric equipment in the Japanese Garden 
and on Spare the Air Days has helped Parks staff identify challenges and limitations of electric leaf blower technology. One 
major challenge with electric leaf blowers is battery life limitations. In most park settings a blower with 2 batteries 
provides about 45 minutes of use and requires 2 hours for recharge. While electric leaf blowers work well for small sites, 
they have been challenging to use at larger park settings where staff would have to use multiple batteries. Another major 
limitation is the equipment performance, as electric leaf blowers are less powerful and therefore take staff longer to 
accomplish the same work compared to using gas leaf blowers. 
Staff provided cost estimates for transitioning to electric blower equipment. Currently the Parks Department has an 
inventory of 12 gas blowers. An electric backpack blower costs $300 plus four batteries that cost $300 each, amounting to 
$1,500 for each replacement. The Parks Department estimates an $18,000 initial investment to replace the gas blower 
equipment and $14,000 every 2 years for battery replacements. Additionally, there is also the cost of electricity and 
charging infrastructure. For comparison, a typical gas-powered blower costs $375 plus the cost of fuel. Parks’ main shop 
4 of 68

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
area requires an estimated $20,000 of electrical upgrades for charging batteries to use electric equipment on a consistent 
basis. Additional upgrades to field shops will be necessary but have not yet been evaluated. 
In addition to transitioning to electric equipment, the Parks Department is requesting a budget allocation for a multi-
purpose sweeper that will be used for removal of pathway and parking lot debris and to reduce the use of leaf blower 
equipment. This budget request will be presented as part of a separate agenda item. The sweeper has certified 4-star 
containment of pollution, essentially eliminating the dust levels created by the blowers currently used. Additionally, the 
proposed sweeper would help create efficiencies in staffing, freeing highly-skilled landscape maintenance staff from 
backpack blower detail. At this time every Parks staff person has some part of their week dedicated to debris removal. This 
sweeper will efficiently complete the task of debris removal and eliminate more dust than possible with backpack blowers. 
STATE REGULATIONS
In October 2021, California became the first state with a statewide ban on new gas leaf blowers and lawn mowers when 
Governor Newsom signed Assembly Bill 1346 prohibiting the sale of new small off-road engines beginning January 1, 2024. 
The California Air Resources Board (CARB) regulates leaf blowers as part of small off-road engines (SORE) category. SORE 
are defined as spark-ignition engines rated at or below 19 kilowatts, primarily used for lawn, garden, and other outdoor 
power equipment such as leaf blowers, lawn mowers, hedge trimmers, and chippers. SORE smog-forming emissions are 
significant; CARB estimates that one hour of commercial leaf blowing activity emits the same pollution as driving a 2017 
Toyota Camry for 1,100 miles. CARB recognizes that the cumulative volume of smog-forming emissions from SORE 
equipment now exceed those from passenger cars on an annual basis. It is important to note that the prohibition of the 
sale of new SORE equipment in 2024 will still allow for the use of older SORE equipment. As a result, local restrictions still 
make sense to evaluate. 
POLICY APPROACHES
There are three main policy approaches local jurisdictions use to regulate leaf blowers: 1) time of day restrictions, 2) gas 
leaf blower ban, and 3) complete gas and electric leaf blower ban. The following details the different policy approaches 
and provides examples of cities that have taken on the policy approach.
1)
Time of day restrictions
Enacting noise and time of day restrictions is the most common approach employed by jurisdictions to manage the noise 
impacts of leaf blower equipment. While time of use and noise restrictions are effective in managing noise pollution, they 
do not address environmental impact or smog forming emissions. Although the City of San Mateo currently has time of 
day restrictions and a nozzle extension requirement already in place, the City could explore establishing a schedule and 
zone system to manage leaf blowing activity and/or narrowing the time restrictions.  In addition, the City may want to 
consider expanding the time of day restrictions to impact areas of the City currently not covered by the ordinance as more 
mixed-use development is constructed in formerly commercial-only zones.
 
An example of this approach is the City of Burlingame’s leaf blowing schedule and zone approach, which was adopted in 
2012. This approach helps address noise pollution since it limits leaf blower activity to specific days of the week. Their 
ordinance requires the following:

Commercial blowers may be used on only ONE day per week, per area, with an extra day for R3 and R4 buildings 
on Fridays.

Residents may use their own blowers on Saturdays from 9:00 am to 2:00 pm and Sundays from 10:00 am to 2:00 
pm, as well as on their assigned weekday.
The City of Burlingame developed a map to delineate the different neighborhood zones and schedules. Implementation of 
this ordinance relied on residents informing their gardening services of the operational requirements. 
 
Alternatively, some cities have narrower time restrictions than the City of San Mateo. For example, the Town of Atherton 
has a later leaf blower schedule for weekends: 10:00 am – 5:00 pm on Saturdays and 10:00 am – 3:00 pm on Sundays. This 
is likely because many feel that leaf blower noise is a nuisance on weekend mornings. 
5 of 68

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2)
Gas leaf blower ban (allows electric leaf blower)
Banning gas leaf blowers helps reduce smog-forming emissions but only partially addresses the noise pollution aspect. 
Electric leaf blowers can be as loud as gas leaf blowers and will have similar impacts in terms of kicking up particles and 
creating fugitive dust. However, electric leaf blowers do not create engine-related fumes and thus can help mitigate air 
quality concerns. 
 
One of the primary concerns about electric leaf blowers include durability and battery life as discussed earlier in this report 
regarding City Parks operations. Electric leaf blowers can be cord-powered or battery-powered. Both types of electric leaf 
blowers can be easily adapted for most household personal use, but commercial landscapers must consider how long the 
equipment will last in the field. Cord-powered electric blowers are not viable on all types of property, limit the range of 
use, and are therefore impractical for commercial landscapers. Battery-powered electric blowers require commercial 
landscapers to purchase multiple batteries, increasing the costs to landscapers. 
 
Over twenty cities in California have adopted gas leaf blower bans and recently, several Bay Area cities have taken up gas 
leaf blower bans:

The Town of Portola Valley adopted an ordinance in 2019 with an enforcement date of January 2021; 

The City of Oakland adopted an ordinance in October 2020 with and enforcement date of April 2021; and

The City of Alameda adopted an ordinance in September 2021 with an enforcement date of January 1, 2023; and

The City of Novato adopted ordinance in June 2022 with an enforcement date of July 2023. 
In February 2022, the Atherton Town Council was divided on whether to move forward with a gas leaf blower ban and 
directed staff to do more research and outreach to residents. The Menlo Park City Council will consider a gas leaf blower 
ban in 2023 with a July 2024 enforcement date. 
Staff reached out to the City of Alameda, Town of Portola Valley, and City of Los Altos and received feedback that 
enforcement is the primary challenge with gas leaf blower bans. Typically, this type of ordinance relies on community 
members to report violations to the city’s nonemergency phone number and enforcement is handled by the code 
enforcement division. Oftentimes, when a code enforcement officer goes to investigate the violation, the subject is gone 
or no longer using the device. Law requires the code enforcement officer to personally witness the Municipal Code 
violation in order to enforce the violation. Enforcement can range from a verbal warning with education on the municipal 
code to issuance of a citation. If the subject is still on-scene but not using the device, the code enforcement officer can 
take the opportunity to provide education about the ordinance. 
The Town of Portola Valley does not have a full-time code enforcement officer and has relied on sending educational 
letters to addresses where violations are reported. Portola Valley staff receive a handful complaints each month and have 
not issued any formal citations. The City of Los Altos has had a leaf blower ban in place since 1991 and continues to face 
challenges with enforcement. According to a letter submitted by a citizen advocacy group, the City of Los Altos Police 
Department receives a high volume of complaints, roughly 350 per year. 
The City of Palo Alto enacted a gas leaf blower ban in 2005 and enforcement has fluctuated over the years. Palo Alto staff 
report the same challenges with enforcement as other cities have experienced. In 2022, Palo Alto made two recent 
updates regarding leaf blowers. The Palo Alto City Council voted to in increase fines ($250 for the first violation, $500 for 
the second, and $1,000 for subsequent violations). The City of Palo Alto also hired a code enforcement officer whose full-
time role is dedicated to leaf blower education and enforcement. The code enforcement officer has prioritized proactive 
engagement with landscapers and homeowner associations and has been in the role for 10 months. For reference for the 
City of San Mateo, a code enforcement officer I salary and benefits costs an estimated $116,000 annually.
3)
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban
Five jurisdictions in California adopted ordinances to ban both gas and electric leaf blowers altogether. An outright ban on 
all mechanized blowers is probably easiest to enforce since it is clear when a user is in violation, as opposed to 
6 of 68

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
distinguishing when a blower is in compliance with a decibel noise limit regulation or if it is gas or electric-powered. 
However, it would still be necessary to witness the leaf blower being used in order to issue a citation. A complete ban on 
gas and electric leaf blowers addresses all concerns related to noise, emissions and air quality, however, an outright ban 
would have significant impacts to commercial landscapers and City operations. By banning all leaf blower use, residents 
and commercial landscapers would need to rely on manual methods (i.e., raking, sweeping). This would greatly increase 
the time it takes for commercial landscapers to complete jobs. 
There are a limited number of cities in Southern California that have a gas and electric leaf blower ban including Santa 
Monica, Del Mar, Hermosa Beach, Laguna Beach and Manhattan Beach. As mentioned in an earlier section of this report, 
in 2013 City Council debated this policy option in depth and decided not to move forward with a ban because of the 
impact to commercial landscapers and also to City staff ability to maintain our parks and landscaping. 
SUSTAINABILITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMMISSION FEEDBACK
On November 9, 2022, staff presented leaf blower regulations to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
requesting feedback and direction on the policy options presented above. During the discussion, there were a variety of 
concerns raised about gas leaf blower regulations. Commissioners voiced concern that a ban on gas leaf blowers might not 
fully address noise concerns since electric leaf blowers still generate some noise and concern about the use of gas 
generators to charge batteries. One commissioner was opposed to the adoption of a leaf blower ban because of the 
financial implications and economic impacts to small landscaping businesses. 
Most commissioners were in favor of a gas leaf blower ban with a delayed implementation date, possibly aligning with 
CARB’s phase-out date in 2024. Some commissioners were also interested pairing the gas leaf blower ban with limiting leaf 
blower use on specific days in certain zones (like Burlingame’s approach). Commissioners expressed support of gas leaf 
blower ban and regulations because of noise impacts to the community and health impacts to leaf blower operators.
All commissioners recommended staff engage directly with landscapers to understand the impact of potential regulations 
prior to bringing policy option to City Council for consideration.
LANDSCAPER FEEDBACK
To solicit feedback from commercial landscapers, staff sent a mailer to 180 landscaping businesses that have a registered 
business license with the City. The mailer included a letter with an overview of the potential leaf blower regulations, a 
survey on leaf blower use, information about the City’s Electric Leaf Blower Rebate program and a stamped envelope to 
facilitate return of the surveys. All materials were provided in English and Spanish. Recipients could provide feedback in 
three ways, participate online via Survey Monkey, mail the paper survey with the stamped envelope, or call or email staff 
directly. In addition, staff attempted to contact 10 businesses for phone interviews. This included the businesses that 
participated in the City’s electric leaf blower rebate and other contacts made through the Parks Department.
The City received 8 online survey responses in English, 9 paper survey responses in English, and 1 paper survey response in 
Spanish. Paper surveys were manually inputted into Survey Monkey for analysis. Overall, the survey showed the majority 
of respondents oppose a gas leaf blower ban with a diverse amount of feedback. Most survey respondents (70%) use gas 
leaf blowers and only 27% report using exclusive electric products; 47% of respondents use both gas and electric products. 
Of the 11 people who responded to why use electric products, the most popular benefit was related to noise and due to 
local regulations in other cities. Survey respondents identified battery life, equipment strength, and cost as the leading 
disadvantages with electric leaf blower equipment. 
The open-ended question showed that most survey respondents were opposed to a gas leaf blower ban. Respondents 
expressed concern about the increased amount of time jobs would take without gas leaf blowers. Respondents were 
concerned about being able to increase costs to clients to cover the increased time. Multiple respondents cited the 
faultiness with equipment and need for expensive repairs as a barrier to electric equipment. Finally, there is also a concern 
about the enforcement of the current ordinance and that a new regulation would be ignored by businesses without 
thorough enforcement.
Survey respondents were split regarding the time of use restrictions similar to Burlingame’s leaf blower regulations. 56% 
7 of 68

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
were opposed, arguing that this limitation would constrain their schedules and that clients already have preferences for 
their gardening services. One landscaper said they had too many client schedules, which resulted in negative and upset 
clients so they let go all of their Burlingame clients.
Phone interviews with electric leaf blower rebate participants revealed that rebate participants were more supportive of 
electric leaf blower use and already relied on electric leaf blowers. One landscaping company cited horticultural best 
practices as a driving reason to reduce blower use overall.
CITY COUNCIL FEEDBACK NEEDED
This report presents a high-level overview of the different policy options that can be considered to address community 
concerns over leaf blowers. Feedback is needed if City Council is interested in pursuing any of the three policy options 
presented in this report:
1)
Time of day restrictions
2)
Gas leaf blower ban (allows electric leaf blower)
3)
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban
Potential leaf blower regulations would impact personal household leaf blower use, commercial landscaping businesses, 
and City operations. It is important to consider that each of the policy options have varying impact in terms of addressing 
leaf blower related noise pollution, air quality and greenhouse gas emission reduction. If the City Council is interested in 
pursuing any of the proposed policy options, staff would then initiate a robust community outreach process to both 
residents and commercial landscapers to get additional feedback prior to bringing any potential ordinance to City Council 
for consideration. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Receiving this informational report does not result in any fiscal impact. Adoption of leaf blower regulations would have a 
fiscal impact on City operations that would be evaluated at the time of consideration.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Public Comment
Att 2 – Summary of Survey Responses
Att 3 – Individual Survey Responses
Att 4 – Municipal Code Section 10.80 
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
8 of 68

--- page 9 ---
From:
To:
Andrea Chow
Subject:
Re: Leaf Blower Survey Reminder
Date:
Tuesday, February 21, 2023 11:03:40 PM
Attachments:
image013.png
image014.png
image015.png
image016.png
image017.png
image018.png
ANDREA.  sorry for reply late.
i received your letter regarding your request for feedback on the new policy concerning
electric leaf blowers.   i think this is NOT a good idea for gardeners or their customers for the
following reasons:
          .  Electric blowers are three times the cost of a gas blower which will add expense back
to the                         customers.
           . Batteries for leaf blowers only last approximately 30 minutes Wich would require a
Gardner                           to carry additional batteries and chargers again adding additional
expense. 
           .  Gardners who have tried electric blowers say there is a very short life span for this
equipment 
              and poor quality.
          .   Electric blowers do not have the same power as a gas blower, therefore. requiring
more 
              manual labor and more customer expense in order to do the job correctly.
           . Designated days for gas blowers only make the problem worse and require more
scheduling
              which could amount to less business for the gardeners and additional expense for
customers 
Hopefully, this will help your survey and the people it serves.
Sincerely,
Jose l hernandez.
De: Andrea Chow <achow@cityofsanmateo.org>
Enviado: viernes, 3 de febrero de 2023 01:22 p. m.
Asunto: Leaf Blower Survey Reminder
9 of 68

--- page 10 ---
Hello,
 
The City of San Mateo is considering new rules that could affect your business and would like
to learn more about the use of gas and electric leaf blowers by landscaping businesses. Your
feedback will be shared with the San Mateo City Council as they consider leaf blower policy
options at an upcoming City Council Meeting (tentatively scheduled for Monday, March 20 at
5:30 pm). A start date for potential regulations has not been determined and businesses will
be given time to transition and prepare for new rules. Your feedback is very important and
urgently wanted about leaf blower use. Please share your feedback by February 17, 2023.
 
Regulations being considered include:
Only allowing leaf blower use during certain days/times of the week
Prohibiting gas leaf blowers and only allowing electric leaf blowers
Complete gas and electric leaf blower ban
 
The online survey is available at https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/leafblowersm. Feel free
to call or email me with your feedback.
 
Sincerely,
 
Andrea
 
Andrea Chow
Sustainability Analyst | City Manager’s Office
330 W. 20th Ave. San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7007 | achow@cityofsanmateo.org
  
 
 
 
 
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It
may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the
intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please
notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
10 of 68

--- page 11 ---
1of8

January 28, 2022

Andrea Chow

City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Silver Fox a

Hi Andrea,
Thank you for the opportunity to give feedback on commercial leaf blower use.

This is the issue we’re debating: Should we allow heavily polluting, very dangerous, fossil fuel
burning tools for tidying up our lawns?

With climate change’s rapidly worsening storms, heat waves, and drought, the answer should
be obvious. Yet, here we are with more hand-wringing over imaginary “economic” effects.
We’re fiddling while the planet burns.

| founded Silver Fox Landscaping to offer an electric-only landscaping service, which
minimizes leaf blower use. The community needs it.

I’m sure commercial landscapers will overwhelmingly tell you they must use gas yard tools. In
fact, the business case isn’t there. | wrote a legislation proposal to Senator Josh Becker
(enclosed). | haven’t seen the business case explained alongside gas tools’ health and safety
hazards, so the legislation proposal does that.

I've also included a Daily Journal article | very quickly annotated. My handwriting isn’t going to
win any penmanship awards, so | hope it’s clear enough.

Thank you for your time,

Dustin Chase
Silver Fox Landscaping

11 of 68


--- page 12 ---
2 of 8

California State Legislation
Proposal

Problem

Gas yard tools pollute the air, damage the land, destroy wildlife habitat and endanger their
users.

Legislation

The legislation would be called “The Smart Landscaping Act.”

The City of San Francisco recently passed the “Healthier, Cleaner, Quieter Communities Act”

( Ordinance No. 202-22, File No. 220199), which bans gas yard tools. It is excellent legislation.
This proposal adds 2 provisions: citizen affidavits to to make the ban’s enforcement easier and
recommendations for public education.

The California state government could use the San Francisco example. Generally, the
legislation would do the following:

Prohibit gas yard tool use in California.
1. 2 year phase-in period for public government operators

2. 4 year phase-in for private operators

Small Business Support Program

12 of 68


--- page 13 ---
3 of 8

1. Gas yard tool exchange program

2. Gas yard tool disposal program

3. Electric yard tool transition support
1. Education program for both business and citizen audiences
2. Electric and hand tool demonstrations

3. Electric and hand transition tool training

Problem Details

Our communities have been forced to accept gas yard tools’ ear splitting noise, carcinogenic
fumes and environmental destruction for decades. Everyone, especially landscapers, would
benefit from a gas yard tool ban.

Paradoxically, the ones most harmed by gas yard tools have fought the hardest to keep them.
Generally, landscapers don’t know gas yard tools’ health risks. More importantly, they believe
their livelinood depends on them. So, this proposal will address the business case for electric
yard tools.

Many cities have banned gas yard tools, specifically leaf blowers. However, the bans are not
enforced.' This proposal will address enforcement barriers.

Current Law is Inadequate

Recent California legislation, AB 1346 Air pollution: small off-road engines, only mildly impacts
gas yard tools. It only bans the sale of gas yard tools in California. Any gas yard tools in use
today and purchased in at /east the next two years will remain legal to use. The landscaping
industry is lobbying to push the effective date back.2

Further, the law is easily circumvented and many in the industry do not intend to comply.3
The Business Case

Using gas yard tools is simply bad business. Gas yard tools are destructive, hazardous

and expensive.

Oddly, the NALP also contradicts itself. While vehemently protesting an electric tool shift, its
own magazine features a large Bay Area company that has successfully made the change.4

1 Opinion: An Earth Day goal: Let's end the use of gas-powered leaf blowers - berkeleyside.org

2 National Association of Landscape Professionals - Battery-Power Transition/CARB Regulation
Messaging

3 California’s landscapers bear brunt of ban on gas-powered mowers - The Guardian

“The Edge, January/February 2022 page 27

13 of 68


--- page 14 ---
4 of 8

Destruction

Consistently, landscapers have blocked gas yard tool bans because they believe their
businesses depend on them. However, gardening businesses do not depend on the tools. They
depend on the /and. Without gas yard tools, the business can adapt and carry on. But if the
land is destroyed, so is the business.

Yet, landscaping practice tends to be destructive. Leaf blowers are the worst offenders. They
strip top soil and desiroy vital insect and other wildlife habitat: wildlife necessary to support
their customers’ lawns.§

Leaf blowers also send debris and particulate matter, like old animal feces, into the air.

The landscaping industry claims electric tools are too expensive. However, it costs more to use
gas yard tools than it does to use electric yard tools. Gas yard tools operating costs are high:
they need careful tuning, specialized oil, and, of course, gasoline. Electric yard tools require
little more than battery charging.

The latest electric tools are as powerful as their equivalent gas tools. They also do not require
any special charging infrastructure. They charge on standard household electric (120 Volt) in as
little as 30 minutes.§

Let’s look at electric tools’ upfront costs. Gas and electric tools cost about the same. For an
example, a gas leaf blower costs about the same as its electric equivalent (with large capacity
battery and charger).’” Andrew Bray, vice president of government relations for the National
Association of Landscape Professionals (NALP) claims a commercial electric commercial
mower costs double its gas equivalent.8 However, an electric commercial mower can cost /ess
than its gas cousin.®

Batteries, however, cost anywhere from $100 to $400, depending on their capacity.
Landscapers claim they would need dozens of batteries to get through a single work day.
However, that is based on a false assumptions about battery life and how yard tools are
actually used.

The leaf blower is the most energy-hungry, and the first to doubt cast on electric yard tools. On
a typical job, a landscaper runs the blower in short bursts, ranging from low to high power. The
5Soils Alive: How Leaf Blowers Destroy Your Top Soil

6 EGO Power+ Charger Operator’s Manual page 12

7 Echo ECHO PB-580T at Home Depot & Ego Power+ LB6003 at Leaf Blowers Direct

8 California moves toward ban on gas lawn mowers and leaf blowers - LA Times October 9,
2021 .

28 EGO Power+ Z6 ZT5207L 52 in. Electric 56 V Battery Zero Turn Riding Mower Kit (Battery &
Charger) at Ace Hardware retrieved December 9, 2022, Z740R
Ztrak™ Zero Turn Mower at John Deere retrieved December 9, 2022

14 of 68


--- page 15 ---
5 of 8

gas tool idles much of the time, and is turned off and on as needed. An electric blower lasts
about 3 hours on low power, which is sufficient to blow around dry leaves. Short bursts of high
power can be used as needed. Sure, the blower’s battery will drain in about 30 minutes on high
speed, so the landscaper must be thoughtful and use only the energy the job requires. It’s
impossible to say how many batteries a particular business would need, but it’s hard to believe
the industry’s wild claims about them.

Leaf blowers sometimes cause more problems than they solve. After all, they are called leaf
blowers, not leaf cleaners. Gardeners are often fighting their own tools but don’t realize it. |
have observed landscapers at work in my city for over a year, and | saw many examples:

* They blow leaves and dirt too far, so blow them back. Back and forth they go, eventually
moving the leaves into a pile.

- They go over Area 1 several times, blowing leaves around and gradually piling them up.
While cleaning Area 2, they blow leaves back into Area 1. They clean Area 1 again.

» They blow leaves around an entire large area, when they could have simply swept up the
piles the wind had blown together.

Worst, one crew will blow leaves into a neighbor’s yard, then a different crew blows them back
the next day. The awful noise, clouds of dust and noxious air pollution is all for nothing.

| make this argument from personal experience. | bought a suite of electric yard tools at my
own expense and tested them around my building. My electric blower took longer than simply
using a push broom and rake.

Obviously, there are use cases for leaf blowers. But today, they are the hammer that makes
everything look like a nail.

To be fair, electric tools’ upfront costs can be hefty. However, any business is expected to look
after its costs, and invests wisely to reduce them. In addition, this legislation would subsidize
those business investments. It is challenging to adapt to electric tools, but the investment pays
off handsomely.19

Business Case Summary

The fact is, our communities must adapt to the global warming crisis. Gas yard tools are no
longer acceptable, and the industry must change.

There’s nothing onerous about a gas yard tool ban. Any business should be interested in both
the greater safety and the greater profits electric tools provide. The incentive to switch to
electric tools is built-in!

As they adapt to electric yard tools, gardeners can alter their practices to better support both
the land, their livelihoods, and their health. Many businesses have already made the wise

10 Jandscapemanagement.net Battery boon: breaking down the benefits of battery-powered
equipment

15 of 68


--- page 16 ---
6 of 8

choice.11 12 In fact, the NALP contradicts itself on this point. While vehemently protesting an
aleciric tool shift, its own magazine features a large Bay Area company that has successfully
made the change."

Cities

Some city governments may object to a gas yard tool ban because their own efforts have
failed. My city, San Mateo, had an electric tool rebate program in 2021 - 2022. Only a handful
of landscapers took advantage of the program. The San Mateo Mayor claims this as proof
landscapers aren't interested in electric tools. However, there was no serious follow-through
after the program began. The city mailed a program application to the 130 businesses
registered in San Mateo when the program began, and another toward the end of the program.
That’s not nearly enough effort to raise awareness. In addition, there was no Spanish language
promotional materials. Later, this proposal describes a better marketing program.

City governments have an excellent example to follow: Southampton, New York. They phased
out gas yard tools years ago, and they love the results.'4 California cities can learn from their
leadership.

Community Health

Gas yard tools are heavy contributors to global warming and their emissions contain
carcinogens.15 16 Engine emissions also damage children’s lungs.'” There are more community
health threats. Leaf blowers are the most noxious example.

For decades, landscapers have claimed that leaf blowers save time. That’s only true if we
consider everyone else’s time to be worthless.

Leaf blowers’ are very loud, and their low-frequency noise easily passes through windows. For
example, gas leaf blower noise travels up to 800 feet. The noise impairs cognitive performance
in children and adults and “[t]he loudness of [gas powered leaf blowers’] sound at point of
operation is especially concerning for the auditory and non- auditory health of workers and
others regularly exposed in close proximity.”'® Even workers who use ear protection have
suffered permanent hearing loss. One gardener lost 65% of his high frequency hearing. '9

it Washington DC Public Testimony, Sainburg

12The Edge, January/February 2022 page 27

13The Edge, January/February 2022 page 27

14 https://youtu.be/HS3JSXPXPx!

15 CARB Fact Sheet - Small Off Road Engine Fact Sheet

16 How bad for the environment are gas-powered leaf blowers? - Washington Post September
16, 2013

17 The Washington Post and the Leaf Blower Show Down - The Atlantic January 18, 2016

18 Journal of Environmental and Toxicology Studies: Characteristics of Lawn and Garden
Equipment Sound: A Community Pilot Study

19 Washington DC Public Testimony, Fallows

16 of 68


--- page 17 ---
7 of 8

In addition, the noise impairs child development.2°

Opponents of electric yard tools point out the “longer tailpipe.” True, electric tools don’t
eliminate emissions altogether: their electricity is often produced with fossil fuels. However,
burning fossil fuels in a power plant is much more efficient than burning them in an engine.

Battery material mining has environmental costs, and end of life battery disposable does, too.
Still, switching away from gas power is a net gain in the global warming fight.21

In any case, the drawbacks of electric yard tools make a better argument for hand tools than
they do for sticking with gas tools.

Global Warming Equity

Gas yard tool operators are largely Latinx, so that group is hurt the most. They are exposed to
the gas yard tools deafening noise and carcinogenic exhaust throughout their work days.
California state government has pledged to address inequities in global warming affects, so
this legislation aligns with the state government's goals.22

In addition, frustrated people resent the invasive blower noise and come to resent landscapers
themselves. This fractures our communities.23

Barriers

Enforcement

Many cities have managed to pass gas powered yard tools, but the ordinances are not
enforced. City departments do not have enforcement resources, and it’s difficult to respond to
a complaint quickly enough. By the time the enforcement officer gets there, the landscaper
using the gas tools is long gone. Finally, the penalties are seen as an unfair burden on small
businesses.

Citizen affidavits eases enforcement. Citizens may document the illegal activity themselves,
including date, time and location. These are to be turned over to the responsible department,
which first warns the property owner. The property owner would then be fined for additional
violations.

Of course, the business could also be penalized. The key concept, however, is the property
owner typically has the deepest pockets, so few could complain about unfairness.

20 frontiers in Psychology: Does noise affect learning? A short review on noise effects on
cognitive performance in children

21 How much CO2 is emitted by manufacturing batteries? - As MIT Climate July 15, 2022

22 City and County of San Francisco Press Release: Supervisor Myrna Melgar Introduces the
Healthier, Cleaner, Quieter, Communities Act

23 Things | Never Told You About Being a Latino Gardener - Medium Jul 14, 2018

17 of 68


--- page 18 ---
https://www.Smdailyjournal.com/news/local/san-mateo-examining-ban-on-gas-leaf-blowers/article_29fd0462-64a1 -11ed-b4ce-0360518f81c0.html

From the Daily Journal archives
San Mateo examining ban on gas leaf blowers

New rules being discussed to help address environmental concerns

Curtis Driscoll Daily Journal staff
Nov 15, 2022

Momentum is building for a gas ban on leaf blowers in San Mateo and a phased switch to
an electric option, with the city exploring possibilities at a recent Sustainability and
Infrastructure meeting.

The city is discussing a ban to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and air and noise impact
for residents, along with more restrictions on when to allow usage.

“These darn things truly pollute,” Sustainability and Infrastructure Chair Cliff Robbins
said. “I’m not sure why we have somehow treated them differently than all the natural
gas appliances that we regulate the heck out of for new development because these are

18 of 68


--- page 19 ---
worse.”

concerns about how the added costs and hassle would affect the landscaper industry. —
However, it took the issue back up at its Nov. 9 meeting, with a commission majority

recommending a phased gas ban in the coming years and further restvictions on use Fp op 9 Pot
based on city zoning to the council. F a wd :

In 2020, the commission decided against making any regulation recommendation over; +n we err
a a i
\ 7 {? L
la a C tA

Leaf blower use is only allowed from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays and from 9 a.m. to 5 Lag ;
p.m. on Saturdays. Several commissioners suggested following Burlingame’s example of ye — oj
having a zoned approach. Under the model, certain neighborhoods would use \ ia ttt “4 if L
commercial blowers on specific days, with a map created to show the different zones and \ ply xf
schedules. {aX

The state is also playing a role after it banned new gas leaf blowers and lawnmowers he / \ t Ve
through Assembly Bill 1346 in 2021, which prohibited the sale of new small off-road wos aa
engines in 2024. a a -

The city also receives noise complaints about leaf blowers, with about 15 leaf blower Les 5 ror

omplaints per vear, according to city staff, However, if does not typically issue citations

because most people comply with changes, according to staff. Several public speakers
asked for more restrictions to reduce gas fumes in dense neighborhoods and noise.

While the city is transitioning to-eleettic equipmenttoalign with state environmental ; , \
it aIS0 comes with challenges in performance and cost. A city staff report noted
battery limitations in leaf blowers means it only gets 45 minutes of use but needs two.
hours to charge, making use difficult at large parks. Electric equipment is also-less
powerful and requires more time for the same amount of work. Costs also remain
challenging as an electric backpack blower costs $300 plus four batteries
_each, totaling $1,5(
ifivestment of $18,000 to replace the city gas blower equipment and $14,000 every two
ears for battery replacements. A gas- powered option typically costs $375 plus fuel. The_

cjty has.an electric leaf blower rebate: program it started in 2021 that provides rebates for

purchases with some takers. It issued eight commercial landscaper rebates and 30

residential rebates since it stated, a city staff report’said. The average rebate amount for ‘ na th iN

the commercial was $311, while the residential was STBNX. { ; { /¢ (ew “
ree

a t

Robbins suggested a gas ban with some transition time and a rebate program to help ial wil é { hy ;
mitigate hardship for landscapers and a zoned concept. Robbins said the issue was about he ak ) o

adjusting, similar to homeowners remodel adjustment to the electric appliance } le S ¢ p ues

restrictions through the city’s new reach codes. vos * Be ‘ v ><)
U9 a! Ve ar LI

I think homeowners and landscapers are just going to have to suck it up and adjust,” iP 4 c™ oi or re

Robbins said. “I don’t think it’s that difficult”, .. . . [-« wn we
Curr EF¢ | . \ I

While the commission called for a ban, it did believe the city must do more outreach to | ;
landscapers and the public. Commission Kimiko Narita favored a gas ban and more ; Cf > | ¢. ¥;
research about the public health effect of gas leaf blowers. She called for comprehensive ' (s L Uv [ \
outreach to contractors and the Latino community disproportionately affected by the (Cu
changes. She noted a gas ban would affect businesses every year and could potentially
reduce income, as opposed to a one-time appliance change through reach codes.
“We need to be respectful and really thorough in that stakeholder engagement, or else | 4?
we fail,” Narita said. an aie

Zz oU”
cH xt
qv

19 of 68


--- page 20 ---
Over 20 cities in California have adopted gas leaf blower bans, including Portola Valley in
2019 and Oakland in 2020.

. ;
“Having those as really helpful case studies will provide a lot more assurance to a new is + h f RL at Y o~
council that this issue has been thoroughly researched for the third time,” Narita said h , pwr “ kL
TH PU
Vice Chair Susan Rowinski said she was not comfortable with a gas ban currently. She uv (02 t ‘\ | Ve)
cited the economic hardships and tight margins many landscapers face in trying to run a il gt A o{b- 4
business but favored zoning changes to fight noise issues. | WW J

“We’ve heard from a lot of people tonight, but we didn’t hear from landscapers, a
that’s key,” Rowinski said.

The City Council will have a study session on the issue in February or March 2023. ; “) Nes “

curtis@smdailyjournal.com

(650) 344-5200 ext. 102

fyvy=s 8 BOQ in

Curtis Driscoll Daily Journal staff
Reporter

Curtis Driscoll covers transportation and the cities of San Mateo, Foster City, Belmont and Half Moon Bay. See my other
articles: https://bit.ly/3Iruw6p

20 of 68


--- page 21 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
70.59%
12
17.65%
3
41.18%
7
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that apply)
Answered: 17
Skipped: 1
Total Respondents: 17
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Gas
Electric-corded
Electric
battery-powered
ANSWER CHOICES
RESPONSES
Gas
Electric-corded
Electric battery-powered
1
21 of 68

--- page 22 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
45.45%
5
72.73%
8
45.45%
5
36.36%
4
54.55%
6
9.09%
1
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
Answered: 11
Skipped: 7
Total Respondents: 11
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
	Environmental
concerns
	Noise,
electric...
	Health
impacts
	Client
preference
	Other areas
I work have...
Other (please
specify)
ANSWER CHOICES
RESPONSES
	Environmental concerns
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas equipment
	Health impacts
	Client preference
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Other (please specify)
2
22 of 68

--- page 23 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
70.59%
12
58.82%
10
58.82%
10
23.53%
4
23.53%
4
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers? (Check all
that apply)
Answered: 17
Skipped: 1
Total Respondents: 17
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
	Battery
charge does ...
	Electric
leaf blowers...
	Cost of
purchasing n...
	There are no
disadvantage...
Other (please
specify)
ANSWER CHOICES
RESPONSES
	Battery charge does not last long enough
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf blowers
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
	There are no disadvantages of electric leaf blowers
Other (please specify)
3
23 of 68

--- page 24 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
37.50%
6
25.00%
4
18.75%
3
6.25%
1
12.50%
2
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities affected your
business?
Answered: 16
Skipped: 2
TOTAL
16
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
	I do not
work in any...
	I purchased
electric lea...
	I already
use electric...
	I have not
changed my...
	I no longer
serve areas...
ANSWER CHOICES
RESPONSES
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas leaf blower ban
	I purchased electric leaf blower equipment to meet gas leaf blower ban requirements
	I already use electric leaf blowers and did not need to change my business practices
	I have not changed my business practices to accommodate changes in regulations
	I no longer serve areas where gas leaf blowers are banned
4
24 of 68

--- page 25 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
41.18%
7
58.82%
10
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf blower use to
only 1 day per week in specific neighborhood zones) would have an impact
on your business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf blower
regulations.
Answered: 17
Skipped: 1
TOTAL
17
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
No
Yes, please
explain
ANSWER CHOICES
RESPONSES
No
Yes, please explain
5
25 of 68

--- page 26 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential
regulations:
Answered: 14
Skipped: 4
#
RESPONSES
DATE
1
*Porque no trabanjan con el fabricante y no con el pobre trabajador? *Tengan en cuenta que
fall y winter es desagradable usar electric super batt tools.
*Please don't do like Burlingame, is
a headedge to re schedule our long time routes.
English Translation:
* Why don't they work
with the manufacturer and not with the poor worker?
*Keep in mind that fall and winter is
unpleasant to use electric super batt tools.
2/27/2023 9:52 AM
2
Battery powered saws and blowers are not available enough to replace gas powered equipment
2/24/2023 8:33 AM
3
While watching the 11/09/22 Sustainability + Infrastructure Commission meeting I learned
about the California CORE program. I just started the process in January. I was told it has
been taking 3 months to have it finalized.
The current enforcement of the leaf blower ordinance
is a joke. If you want any new regulation to work you will have to have a new team that just
handles the leave blower ordinance and actually do enforcement. In the past I would report leaf
blower ordinance violations but I stopped after seeing the same crews continuing with the
same violations.
2/22/2023 1:04 PM
4
I am all for battery operated blower w/ good batteries!!
2/22/2023 1:01 PM
5
I'm a landscape architect so I design landscapes. I don't install or maintain them.
2/22/2023 12:58 PM
6
I use my gas leaf blowers to not only clean residential yards, but the streets and clear the
drains near my clients' homes, as I know the majority of other gardeners do. We keep the
streets clean and if I have to use a battery/electric leaf blower, it would take too much time of
my battery and time to continue to do the same amount of work.
2/22/2023 12:57 PM
7
It does not surprise me how dumb California is turning, yet how people will allow all of our tax
money to go towards a city - that will soon look and feel disgusting, wanting to push for an "all"
electric environment yet landscaping to only be done once a week? Ridiculous! Wake up CA.
Allowing this will only make San Mateo appear as Oakland.
2/22/2023 12:55 PM
8
This isn't the time for half measures. Ban all gas yard tools. The businesses can adapt.
2/22/2023 12:51 PM
9
I think the council is biased to banning as blowers. This is a wasted effort.
2/22/2023 12:49 PM
10
I think electric blowers are fine and should be allowed to be used any day of the week. In
general, I think leaf blowers should be used less frequently than they are - raking is a better
way to remove targeted debris and leave beneficial organic matter in garden beds. However,
blowers are important for thoroughly cleaning hardscaped surfaces like patios, driveways and
sidewalks. I am a professional horticulturist and have strong opinions about the overuse of
blowers and their detriment to garden health, but they have their place and should be allowed.
2/6/2023 12:31 PM
11
The cost of a new tools and the time extended to blow the costumer won’t pay as many people
do garden maintenance is ease to find some work for less, and the situation is crossing in the
country everything goes up food,gas and items necessities, it has doble or more than use to
cost before pandemic but if you rise up the cost of the service they say you only can rase up
5% of the cost of the service that percent don’t cover the cost of new equipment
2/3/2023 2:32 PM
12
I support electric because of reduced noise and 2 stroke gas engine pollution
1/29/2023 2:47 PM
13
Palo Alto’s policy for electric leaf blowers only have already shown stress on landscapers.
They are paying out of pocket to repair and buy new electrical equipment and struggle to keep
up with buying expensive batteries due to their lack of longevity. Most have stuck to only
raking making their hours longer and more physically draining.
1/26/2023 11:36 PM
14
Setting aside my landscape use of an electric blower, only periodically, I find myself barraged
in my neighborhood by loud, smelly leaf blowers at all hours of the day, early morning, into the
1/26/2023 6:52 PM
6
26 of 68

--- page 27 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
evening when my family wants to enjoy quiet time in the garden....I would love for them to be
used only at certain times, especially gas, but both if possible.
7
27 of 68

--- page 28 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
1 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Environmental concerns,
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Health impacts,
	Client preference
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	There are no disadvantages of electric leaf blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I already use electric leaf blowers and did not need to
change my business practices
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
#1
#1
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Thursday, January 26, 2023 6:49:11 PM
Thursday, January 26, 2023 6:49:11 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Thursday, January 26, 2023 6:52:03 PM
Thursday, January 26, 2023 6:52:03 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:02:51
00:02:51
IP Address:
IP Address:

135.180.130.226
135.180.130.226
Page 1
28 of 68

--- page 29 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
2 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
Setting aside my landscape use of an electric blower, only periodically, I find myself barraged in my neighborhood by loud, smelly leaf 
blowers at all hours of the day, early morning, into the evening when my family wants to enjoy quiet time in the garden....I would love 
for them to be used only at certain times, especially gas, but both if possible.
29 of 68

--- page 30 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
3 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas,
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment,
Other (please specify):
Batteries when used for long periods of times drain and
damage cells within the batteries resulting in replacing $200
batteries regularly.
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I purchased electric leaf blower equipment to meet gas
leaf blower ban requirements
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
My schedule is based on efficiency and not by city. Most of
my clients hve set days they prefer me and this would
ultimately ruin my schedule and make unecessary trips
back in forth.
Yes, please explain:
#2
#2
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Thursday, January 26, 2023 11:25:47 PM
Thursday, January 26, 2023 11:25:47 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Thursday, January 26, 2023 11:36:09 PM
Thursday, January 26, 2023 11:36:09 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:10:22
00:10:22
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.226.87.105
76.226.87.105
Page 1
30 of 68

--- page 31 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
4 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
Palo Alto’s policy for electric leaf blowers only have already shown stress on landscapers. They are paying out of pocket to repair and 
buy new electrical equipment and struggle to keep up with buying expensive batteries due to their lack of longevity. Most have stuck to
only raking making their hours longer and more physically draining.
31 of 68

--- page 32 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
5 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Electric-corded
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Health impacts,
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	There are no disadvantages of electric leaf blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I already use electric leaf blowers and did not need to
change my business practices
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I support electric because of reduced noise and 2 stroke gas engine pollution
#3
#3
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Sunday, January 29, 2023 2:41:51 PM
Sunday, January 29, 2023 2:41:51 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Sunday, January 29, 2023 2:47:00 PM
Sunday, January 29, 2023 2:47:00 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:05:08
00:05:08
IP Address:
IP Address:

45.26.53.176
45.26.53.176
Page 1
32 of 68

--- page 33 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
6 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these
potential regulations:
Respondent skipped this question
#4
#4
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 01, 2023 6:16:34 PM
Wednesday, February 01, 2023 6:16:34 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 01, 2023 6:20:15 PM
Wednesday, February 01, 2023 6:20:15 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:03:40
00:03:40
IP Address:
IP Address:

24.5.182.227
24.5.182.227
Page 1
33 of 68

--- page 34 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
7 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
This would limit how much I can work and my livelihood. I
have too many clients to be limited to one day a week.
Yes, please explain:
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these
potential regulations:
Respondent skipped this question
#5
#5
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Thursday, February 02, 2023 8:20:19 PM
Thursday, February 02, 2023 8:20:19 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Thursday, February 02, 2023 8:27:35 PM
Thursday, February 02, 2023 8:27:35 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:07:15
00:07:15
IP Address:
IP Address:

107.131.72.247
107.131.72.247
Page 1
34 of 68

--- page 35 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
8 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I have not changed my business practices to
accommodate changes in regulations
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
The costumer some times don’t understand to change the
service day
Yes, please explain:
#6
#6
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Friday, February 03, 2023 2:10:52 PM
Friday, February 03, 2023 2:10:52 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Friday, February 03, 2023 2:32:16 PM
Friday, February 03, 2023 2:32:16 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:21:23
00:21:23
IP Address:
IP Address:

70.236.211.75
70.236.211.75
Page 1
35 of 68

--- page 36 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
9 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
The cost of a new tools and the time extended to blow the costumer won’t pay as many people do garden maintenance is ease to find 
some work for less, and the situation is crossing in the country everything goes up food,gas and items necessities, it has doble or 
more than use to cost before pandemic but if you rise up the cost of the service they say you only can rase up 5% of the cost of the 
service  that percent don’t cover the cost of new equipment
36 of 68

--- page 37 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
10 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Environmental concerns,
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
Other (please specify):
easier to use, cheaper than gas, just as effective
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I already use electric leaf blowers and did not need to
change my business practices
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
I work 5 days a week and am only at clients homes 1x per
week. I would have to do every client's blowing in one day
which leaves 4 days when I could not work. Also, for
construction, leaf blowers are used for daily cleanup.
Jobsites would get messy if they could only be used one
day.
Yes, please explain:
#7
#7
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Monday, February 06, 2023 12:25:24 PM
Monday, February 06, 2023 12:25:24 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Monday, February 06, 2023 12:30:43 PM
Monday, February 06, 2023 12:30:43 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:05:19
00:05:19
IP Address:
IP Address:

142.254.109.200
142.254.109.200
Page 1
37 of 68

--- page 38 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
11 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I think electric blowers are fine and should be allowed to be used any day of the week. In general, I think leaf blowers should be used 
less frequently than they are - raking is a better way to remove targeted debris and leave beneficial organic matter in garden beds. 
However, blowers are important for thoroughly cleaning hardscaped surfaces like patios, driveways and sidewalks. I am a professional 
horticulturist and have strong opinions about the overuse of blowers and their detriment to garden health, but they have their place and 
should be allowed.
38 of 68

--- page 39 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
12 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Electric-corded,
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Environmental concerns,
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Health impacts
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I purchased electric leaf blower equipment to meet gas
leaf blower ban requirements
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these
potential regulations:
Respondent skipped this question
#8
#8
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:06 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:06 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:56 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:56 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:00:49
00:00:49
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
39 of 68

--- page 40 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
13 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas,
Electric-corded
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I no longer serve areas where gas leaf blowers are
banned
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I think the council is biased to banning as blowers. This is a wasted effort.
#9
#9
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:59 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:46:59 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:49:01 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:49:01 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:02:02
00:02:02
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
40 of 68

--- page 41 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
14 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Environmental concerns,
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Health impacts
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	There are no disadvantages of electric leaf blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
This isn't the time for half measures. Ban all gas yard tools. The businesses can adapt.
#10
#10
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:49:04 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:49:04 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:50:57 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:50:57 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:01:53
00:01:53
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
41 of 68

--- page 42 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
15 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment,
Other (please specify):
in the near future your electric product will cause more toxic
radiation than gas
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
This is ridiculous how do you expect a city to be well kept
and clean to be done only once a week with with an
"electric" product.
Yes, please explain:
#11
#11
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:51:00 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:51:00 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:54:42 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:54:42 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:03:42
00:03:42
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
42 of 68

--- page 43 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
16 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
It does not surprise me how dumb California is turning, yet how people will allow all of our tax money to go towards a city - that will 
soon look and feel disgusting, wanting to push for an "all" electric environment yet landscaping to only be done once a week? 
Ridiculous! Wake up CA. Allowing this will only make San Mateo appear as Oakland.
43 of 68

--- page 44 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
17 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment,
Other (please specify):
Battery charge - I wouldn't be able to do all of my clients.
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I no longer serve areas where gas leaf blowers are
banned
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
When I would work in Burlingame I'd have to move around
too many clients schedules which resulted in negative/upset
clients so I had to let go all of my Burlingame clients
Yes, please explain:
#12
#12
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:54:46 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:54:46 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:57:17 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:57:17 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:02:31
00:02:31
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
44 of 68

--- page 45 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
18 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I use my gas leaf blowers to not only clean residential yards, but the streets and clear the drains near my clients' homes, as I know 
the majority of other gardeners do. We keep the streets  clean and if I have to use a battery/electric leaf blower, it would take too much 
time of my battery and time to continue to do the same amount of work.
45 of 68

--- page 46 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
19 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
Respondent skipped this question
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
Respondent skipped this question
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I'm a landscape architect so I design landscapes. I don't install or maintain them.
#13
#13
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:57:18 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:57:18 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:58:12 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:58:12 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:00:53
00:00:53
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
46 of 68

--- page 47 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
20 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas,
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Client preference
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I purchased electric leaf blower equipment to meet gas
leaf blower ban requirements
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
Yes, as a landscape contractor I need blowers 5 times per
week.
Yes, please explain:
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these
potential regulations:
Respondent skipped this question
#14
#14
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:58:14 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:58:14 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:00:04 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:00:04 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:01:49
00:01:49
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
47 of 68

--- page 48 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
21 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Environmental concerns,
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Health impacts,
	Client preference,
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
,
	There are no disadvantages of electric leaf blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
No
#15
#15
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:00:08 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:00:08 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:01:04 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:01:04 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:00:55
00:00:55
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
48 of 68

--- page 49 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
22 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
I am all for battery operated blower w/ good batteries!!
49 of 68

--- page 50 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
23 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
Respondent skipped this question
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I do not work in any cities where there has been a gas
leaf blower ban
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
I'm the boss and worker so that would mean I would have to
let go some of my clients. I can only do so many yard per
day.
Yes, please explain:
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
While watching the 11/09/22 Sustainability + Infrastructure Commission meeting I learned about the California CORE program. I just 
started the process in January. I was told it has been taking 3 months to have it finalized.
The current enforcement of the leaf blower ordinance is a joke. If you want any new regulation to work you will have to have a new 
team that just handles the leave blower ordinance and actually do enforcement. In the past I would report leaf blower ordinance 
violations but I stopped after seeing the same crews continuing with the same violations.
#16
#16
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:01:11 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:01:11 PM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:03:50 PM
Wednesday, February 22, 2023 1:03:50 PM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:02:38
00:02:38
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
50 of 68

--- page 51 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
24 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Cost of purchasing new electric equipment,
Other (please specify):
Short supply
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
Respondent skipped this question
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
Clients like their properties clean when we leave. 9 am to
5pm are reasonable hours
Yes, please explain:
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
Battery powered saws and blowers are not available enough to replace gas powered equipment
#17
#17
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 1
Web Link 1
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Friday, February 24, 2023 8:29:26 AM
Friday, February 24, 2023 8:29:26 AM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Friday, February 24, 2023 8:33:08 AM
Friday, February 24, 2023 8:33:08 AM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:03:42
00:03:42
IP Address:
IP Address:

12.218.214.34
12.218.214.34
Page 1
51 of 68

--- page 52 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
25 / 26
Q1
What type of leaf blowers do you use? (Check all that
apply)
Gas,
Electric battery-powered
Q2
If you use electric leaf blowers, why do you use electric
leaf blowers? (Check all that apply)
	Noise, electric equipment is quieter than gas
equipment
,
	Client preference,
	Other areas I work have banned gas leaf blowers
Q3
What are the disadvantages of using electric leaf blowers?
(Check all that apply)
	Battery charge does not last long enough,
	Electric leaf blowers are not as strong as gas leaf
blowers
Q4
How has the banning of gas leaf blowers in other cities
affected your business?
	I purchased electric leaf blower equipment to meet gas
leaf blower ban requirements
Q5
Do you think time of use restrictions (e.g. limiting leaf
blower use to only 1 day per week in specific
neighborhood zones) would have an impact on your
business? This approach is similar to Burlingame’s leaf
blower regulations.
Dias especiales es algo super ridiculo como en Burlingame,
es un dolor de cabeza.
Yes, please explain:
#18
#18
COMPLETE
COMPLETE
Collector:
Collector:

Web Link 2
Web Link 2
(Web Link)
(Web Link)
Started:
Started:

Monday, February 27, 2023 9:32:36 AM
Monday, February 27, 2023 9:32:36 AM
Last Modified:
Last Modified:

Monday, February 27, 2023 9:51:57 AM
Monday, February 27, 2023 9:51:57 AM
Time Spent:
Time Spent:

00:19:21
00:19:21
IP Address:
IP Address:

76.14.0.98
76.14.0.98
Page 1
52 of 68

--- page 53 ---
Landscaper Leaf Blower Use Survey
SurveyMonkey
26 / 26
Q6
Please provide any additional feedback about these potential regulations:
*Porque no trabanjan con el fabricante y no con el pobre trabajador? 
*Tengan en cuenta que fall y winter es desagradable usar electric super batt tools.
*Please don't do like Burlingame, is a headedge to re schedule our long time routes.
English Translation:
* Why don't they work with the manufacturer and not with the poor worker?
*Keep in mind that fall and winter is unpleasant to use electric super batt tools.
53 of 68

--- page 54 ---
3/9/23, 8:45 AM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
1/3
City of San Mateo Law Library / City of San Mateo Municipal Code. / Title 10 PEACE, SAFETY
AND MORALS / Chapter 10.80 OPERATION OF LEAF BLOWERS
Chapter 10.80 OPERATION OF LEAF BLOWERS
10.80.010 PURPOSE.
It has been found that leaf blowers cause considerable noise and air pollution and have been the
source of numerous complaints by San Mateo citizens living in residential zoning districts.
This chapter is intended to regulate the use of leaf blowers to minimize noise and air pollution in
the City's residentially zoned neighborhoods and in areas bordering residentially zoned
neighborhoods.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
10.80.020 LEAF BLOWER—DEFINITION.
Leaf blowers are defined as portable equipment that is powered by a self-contained fuel engine
and used in any landscape, maintenance, construction, property repair, or property maintenance
for the purpose of blowing, dispersing or redistributing dust, dirt, leaves, grass, clippings, cuttings
and trimmings from trees, shrubs or other debris.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
10.80.030 HOURS OF OPERATION.
No person shall use or operate a leaf blower in a residential zoning district or in areas bordering a
residential zoning district before 8:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, nor prior to
9:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays. Use of leaf blowers on Sundays or on the following
54 of 68

--- page 55 ---
3/9/23, 8:45 AM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
2/3
holidays is prohibited: New Years Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday, Presidents' Day, Memorial
Day, 4th of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving, Christmas.
(Ord. No. 1998-6 § 1; Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
10.80.040 LIMITATIONS ON USE.
Any person who uses or operates a leaf blower in a residential zoning district or in areas bordering
a residential zoning district shall use a blower nozzle extension and shall run the blower at a low
speed to minimize noise. No more than one blower shall be operated at a residence at any time.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
10.80.050 REMOVAL OF DEBRIS.
No material or matter blown by leaf blowers shall be blown upon neighboring properties or onto
any portion of the public right-of-way, including but not limited to sidewalks and streets, without
being immediately removed.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
10.80.060 VIOLATIONS.
It is unlawful for any person or entity to violate the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
55 of 68

--- page 56 ---
3/9/23, 8:45 AM
City of San Mateo Law Library
about:blank
3/3
10.80.070 CONSTRUCTION.
No section of this chapter shall impose a mandatory duty on the City, or on any officer, official,
agent, employee, board, council, or commission of the City. Instead, if any section purports to
impose a mandatory duty of enforcement, that section shall be deemed to invest the City, and the
appropriate officer, official, agent, employee, board, council, or commission with discretion to
enforce the section or not to enforce it.
(Ord. No. 1997-2 § 1.)
56 of 68

--- page 57 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC 
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED 
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION 
OF THE AGENDA PACKET 
57 of 68

--- page 58 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Peter Breining 
Sent:
Saturday, March 18, 2023 3:09 PM
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Leaf blower support comment
Please do not change the current leaf blower regulations.  The 
regulations are a good compromise as they currently exist. 
 
Leaf blowers are a valuable tool.  I use my gas-powered leaf blower 
to blow off dust and debris from public tennis courts before I play 
tennis, making them much less slippery and safer. 
 
It would not be possible for me to sweep the tennis courts off each 
time. 
 
Also, I recently noticed a park employee using a battery powered 
blower and it was much louder and much more shrill than my gas 
powered one.  So there is no noise benefit of electric vs. gasoline, 
as far as I can see. 
 
Thank you for your consideration of this safety-related use of leaf 
blowers and please do not change the current regulations. 
 
Peter Breining 
 
San Mateo 
58 of 68

--- page 59 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Kristie Eglsaer 
Sent:
Sunday, March 19, 2023 4:18 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo); Clerk
Cc:
Stephanie Gindlesperger; Sang Hee Cho; Bethany Lopez; Sue-Ellen Atkinson; Azalea Mitch; 
Amourence Lee; Lisa Diaz Nash; Rob Newsom; Adam Loraine; Richard Hedges; Andrea Chow
Subject:
Comments for Mon 3/20 CC meetings
Dear City Council,  
 
Here are my public comments for the meetings on Monday, March 20.  
 
Slow Speed School Zone (Item #16) 
Thank you so much for starting the slow streets around schools project!  
 
Ped/Bike Priority List Action (Item #19)  
I look forward to the City making changes to our streets this year, and I am wondering if that is what is meant 
by “Create a pedestrian master plan implementation plan” because a 2012 Ped Plan Implementation Plan 
already exists ✅ ‐ Ch 7 titled Implementation, with things like pedestrian scale lighting, curb extensions, and 
signal timing with specific locations and cost estimates. Many near term actions, like those also mentioned 
in the 2022 TOD Ped Access Plan, can't happen soon enough, like minimizing vehicle conflicts with 
pedestrians at signalized intersections via turn restrictions at El Camino Downtown (p.63). My neighbor was 
just telling me yesterday about a really scary near miss there due to the ped-vehicle signal conflict.  
 
Add Pilot Installations as part of Complete Streets Community Engagement Plan (Item #22) 
Pilot Installations are designed to be temporary, allowing for modifications based on real-world and real-time 
feedback from users, allowing the community and City to engage in a cycle of action and feedback. The city 
has had some real success with pilot installations and community engagement recently. Now it’s about folding 
that practice into the Complete Streets Community Engagement Process.  
 
Leaf Blowers and #LeaveTheLeaves (Special Session) 
Does the City of San Mateo Parks Dept have a policy similar to what is laid out by the NYC Parks Dept 
to leave fallen leaves on the ground, like keeping leaves around tree bases or mulch mowing lawns? Thank 
you for the City listing alternatives to leaf blowing on the leaf blower webpage, like letting the leaves lie, and 
thank you for the electric leaf blower rebate program (and great flyer with QR code!). 
 
Thanks very much!  
 
Best, Kristie  
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4566/TOD‐Pedestrian‐Access‐Plan 
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2218/Pedestrian‐Master‐Plan 
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/10061/10‐‐‐Implementation?bidId= 
 
https://www.nycgovparks.org/learn/trees‐and‐plants/leave‐the‐leaves‐why‐our‐parks‐gardeners‐may‐leave‐fallen‐
autumn‐leaves‐on‐the‐ground 
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4544/Electric‐Leaf‐Blower‐Rebate 
59 of 68

--- page 60 ---
2
 
 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/85710/Electric‐Leaf‐Blower‐Rebate‐Flyer?bidId= 
60 of 68

--- page 61 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Patrice Olds
Sent:
Monday, March 20, 2023 1:56 PM
To:
Martin McTaggart; Andrea Chow; Sue-Ellen Atkinson
Subject:
Fwd: Comments for 3/20 meeting
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: Lisa Rayle 
 
Sent: Monday, March 20, 2023 1:22:16 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments for 3/20 meeting  
  
Dear Councilmembers,   
 
As a resident of San Mateo, I am writing to comment on three items on tonight's agenda:  
 
1. City Council Priority List ‐ Draft Review, item #32 
 
On item #32, I urge council to be more specific.  
 
"Refine programmatic timeline for future bike improvements" --> we should create a timeline to build all 
priority projects in the Bike Master Plan 
 
" Create a pedestrian master plan implementation plan" --> Does it really take all year to make a plan to 
implement a plan? Can we also identify quick-build projects that can be implemented this year? 
2. Complete Streets Plan ‐ Introduction & Community Engagement 
 
I strongly support the design of streets that are truly complete, which means making streets safe and welcoming for 
people on foot and on bike. San Mateo roads are too often designed for cars with pedestrians and bicycles as an 
afterthought. It's past time to correct that imbalance by prioritizing design for people over design for cars.   
 
3. Leaf blowers 
 
Gas leaf blowers create air pollution hazardous to health, with few benefits. When I lived in Palo Alto, where gas leaf 
blowers are banned, the landscapers were fine using an electric blower and the cost was basically the same. Why 
continue to subject residents and workers to hazardous fumes when there are perfectly good alternatives available?  
 
Thank you, 
Lisa Rayle 
 
61 of 68

--- page 62 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Patrice Olds
Sent:
Monday, March 20, 2023 2:15 PM
To:
Andrea Chow; Martin McTaggart
Subject:
Fwd: Leaf blower ordinance.
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: Rick 
 
Sent: Monday, March 20, 2023 2:12:13 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Leaf blower ordinance.  
  
Good afternoon,  
 
I never seen anyone using a leaf blower (gas or electric) collect the debris 
and take it away.  Have you?  The debris gets blown onto the street or 
the neighbors property.  This ends up in the storm drain system and clogs 
it up and eventually the pollutants flow into the SF Bay which is a 
violation of the Clean Water Act.   A broom and a rake are the Green zero 
emissions alternative.  If we are banning everything that is gas or gasoline 
powered allowing gasoline leaf blowers, that sends the wrong message to 
everyone.   
sincerely  
Rick Sakuda 
San Mateo, CA 
62 of 68

--- page 63 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Elaine Salinger 
Sent:
Sunday, March 19, 2023 8:03 PM
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Citizens Climate Lobby members' comments about Leaf Blowers
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Dias Nash, Councilmembers Loraine, Newsom and Hedges, 
 
The San Mateo County chapter of Citizens Climate Lobby has the following comments on Item 2 of the 
March 20  Special Meeting of the City Council related to Leaf Blower Regulations. We have 1000 members in 
SMC and 200 members living in the City of San Mateo.  
 
Recommendations for Regulations of Leaf Blowers 
 
 
1. Effective January 1, 2026  or sooner, ban use of all gasoline powered landscaping equipment in San Mateo 
(an expansion of policy option two in the staff report). 
 
 
2. Immediately enforce the widely ignored operating hours for leaf blowers; and enforce the limits on noise 
levels. 
 
 
3. Expand the electric leaf blower rebate program to include batteries.  
 
 
4. Use alternative landscaping methods that include leaving the leaves on the ground, letting the grass grow 
longer, and/or trimming shrubbery less often and educate the public. (Please see this link. for a good 
explanation of why this is beneficial.)  
 
5.  Have the Parks Dept trial mulch mowing and other ways to leave fallen leaves, like placing leaf piles around 
tree bases to protect tree roots. 
 
Discussion of Recommendations 
 
After January 1, 2024, new gasoline powered leaf blowers and other new gasoline powered equipment such as 
hedge trimmers can no longer be sold in California. The staff report for the March 20 City Council meeting very 
correctly outlines the reasoning: the environmental damage done by one hour of gasoline powered leaf 
blowers is equivalent to the emissions from driving a Toyota Camry for 1,100 miles.  
 
Besides creating annoying noise pollution and carbon pollution, gas leaf blowers blow away topsoil, blow away 
pollinator larvae that live in the leaf litter, and blow away annual flower seeds. Over time, the ground that has 
been blown is visibly eroded and barren. While electric blowers have the same problems, because they are not 
as powerful, the environmental damage is less severe.  
 
However, we do recognize that as long as landscapers are expected to remove every leaf, it will be 
economically challenging for them to cease operations of all leaf blowers.  Although leaves, grass clippings and 
63 of 68

--- page 64 ---
2
other material can be hand raked and swept, very few, if any, homeowners or businesses would be willing to 
pay the higher labor cost such hand work would require. Actually, leaf litter is nature's best mulch. And about 
3” of mulch is recommended to reduce water needs and keep plant roots cool. What is really needed is 
education of the public to accept landscaping that is more natural. 
 
We thank the City for their electric leaf blower rebate program, and the California Air Resources Board for 
their recent launch of a voucher incentive program for zero emission landscape equipment, referred to as the 
CORE program, available to landscape professionals. We understand that the leaf blower battery may not last 
the entire day and landscapers will need to carry extra batteries. One solution is to expand the landscape 
professionals' rebate for electric leaf blowers to include additional batteries.  
 
In addition to air pollution, gasoline powered leaf blowers create significant noise pollution and thus, by San 
Mateo Municipal Code, may legally be operated only between the hours of 8 AM and 5 PM in residential and 
adjacent areas. Please note that during hours of legal operation, the Municipal Code also sets some very clear 
noise level standards. Unfortunately, in San Mateo, the hours of operation and sound level limitations are 
widely ignored, especially in commercial and office areas adjacent to residential properties.  
 
An outright ban on gasoline powered landscaping equipment, effective January 1, 2026, gives landscape 
professionals almost  three years to find electric battery powered alternatives. With financial assistance from 
the CORE program and the City’s rebates, this is an equitable and fair approach.   
 
Finally, the problem of leaf blowers potentially could be addressed through alternative landscaping methods 
that involve less frequent use of leaf blowers, which would also yield other environmental benefits.  The Parks 
and Recreation Department could try leaving the leaves on the ground to create natural mulch and provide 
habitat for the creatures. However, this was not on the objectives list from the City Council, and therefore, 
further awareness and public education of this option is needed.  
  
Thank you. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elaine Salinger, Group Co-Leader 
San Mateo County Chapter  
 
 
 
 
64 of 68

--- page 65 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Nancy Schneider 
Sent:
Sunday, March 19, 2023 8:34 PM
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Revised letter on Leaf Blower regulations
Hello Patrice ‐‐ 
Would you please replace the letter I sent a few minutes ago with the one below.  I made a change on the signature. 
Thank you, 
Nancy  
 
Dear Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Councilmembers Loraine, Newsom and Hedges, 
 
The  San Mateo Climate Action Team has the following comments on Item 2 of the March 20  Special 
Meeting of the City Council  related to Leaf Blower Regulations.   
 
Recommendations for Regulations of Leaf Blowers 
 
1. Effective January 1, 2026  or sooner, ban use of all gasoline powered landscaping equipment in San 
Mateo (an expansion of policy option two in the staff report). 
 
2. Immediately enforce the widely ignored operating hours for leaf blowers; and enforce the limits on 
noise levels. 
 
3. Expand the electric leaf blower rebate program to include batteries.  
 
4. Use alternative landscaping methods that include leaving the leaves on the ground, letting the grass 
grow longer, and/or trimming shrubbery less often and educate the public. (Please see this link. for a 
good explanation of why this is beneficial.)  
 
5.   Have the Parks Dept trial mulch mowing and other ways to leave fallen leaves, like placing leaf piles around 
tree bases to protect tree roots. 
 
Discussion of Recommendations 
 
After January 1, 2024, new gasoline powered leaf blowers and other new gasoline powered equipment such as 
hedge trimmers can no longer be sold in California. The staff report for the March 20 City Council meeting very 
correctly outlines the reasoning: the environmental damage done by one hour of gasoline powered leaf 
blowers is equivalent to the emissions from driving a Toyota Camry for 1,100 miles.  
 
Besides creating annoying noise pollution and carbon pollution, gas leaf blowers blow away topsoil, blow away 
pollinator larvae that live in the leaf litter, and blow away annual flower seeds. Over time, the ground that has 
been blown is visibly eroded and barren. While electric blowers have the same problems, because they are not 
as powerful, the environmental damage is less severe.  
 
However, we do recognize that as long as landscapers are expected to remove every leaf, it will be 
economically challenging for them to cease operations of all leaf blowers.  Although leaves, grass clippings and 
65 of 68

--- page 66 ---
2
other material can be hand raked and swept, very few, if any, homeowners or businesses would be willing to 
pay the higher labor cost such hand work would require. Actually, leaf litter is nature's best mulch. And about 
3” of mulch is recommended to reduce water needs and keep plant roots cool. What is needed is education of 
the public to accept landscaping that is more natural. 
 
We thank the City for their electric leaf blower rebate program, and the California Air Resources Board for 
their recent launch of a voucher incentive program for zero emission landscape equipment, referred to as the 
CORE program, available to landscape professionals. We also note that the experience of some of our 
members with electric leaf blowers has been like that of the San Mateo Parks Department: battery life makes 
switching from gasoline to electric a challenge.  One solution is to expand the landscape professionals' rebate 
for electric leaf blowers to include additional batteries.  
 
In addition to air pollution, gasoline powered leaf blowers create significant noise pollution and thus, by San 
Mateo Municipal Code, may legally be operated only between the hours of 8 AM and 5 PM in residential and 
adjacent areas. Please note that during hours of legal operation, the Municipal Code also sets some very clear 
noise level standards. Unfortunately, in San Mateo, the hours of operation and sound level limitations are 
widely ignored, especially in commercial and office areas adjacent to residential properties.  
 
An outright ban on gasoline powered landscaping equipment, effective January 1, 2026, gives landscape 
professionals almost  three years to find electric battery powered alternatives. With financial assistance from 
the CORE program and the City’s rebates, this is an equitable and fair approach.   
 
Finally, the problem of leaf blowers potentially could be addressed through alternative landscaping methods 
that involve less frequent use of leaf blowers, which would also yield other environmental benefits.  The Parks 
and Recreation Department could try leaving the leaves on the ground to create natural mulch and provide 
habitat for useful creatures. However, this was not on the objectives list from the City Council, and therefore, 
further awareness of this option is needed.  
  
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Sincerely, 
Nancy Schneider and Elaine Salinger  on behalf of the 
180 Members of the San Mateo Climate Action Team 
 
66 of 68

--- page 67 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Patrice Olds
Sent:
Monday, March 20, 2023 1:20 PM
To:
Andrea Chow; Martin McTaggart
Subject:
Fwd: Ban gas-powered leafblower use
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
From: Carol Steinfeld 
 
Sent: Monday, March 20, 2023 1:01:03 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Ban gas‐powered leafblower use  
  
Councillors: 
 
Please ban use of gas‐powered leafblowers—for at least residential use as an interim measure until a complete ban is 
enacted. 
 
A study shows that gas leafblowers do not increase cost to the yard workers. But if if it did, this cost must be charged to 
the customers.  
 
After all, yard maintenance is a discretionary cost, and I feel my neighbors should pay more for polluting the air, creating 
noise, and harming insects/plants/wildiife, as well as damaging everyone's health, including the yard workers'.  
 
You might look at the Palo Alto regulations as a model.  
 
Yard workers know the days of gas powered leafblowers are coming to an end. 
 
Thank you. 
Carol Steinfeld 
 
67 of 68

--- page 68 ---
1
Martin McTaggart
From:
Maggie Trinh 
Sent:
Monday, March 20, 2023 9:22 AM
To:
Clerk
Subject:
Agenda Item #2 - Gas Leaf Blowers
To the City Council: 
 
I am writing in my personal capacity to strongly urge a ban on gas leafblowers. We have in the past used landscaping 
services that used gas leafblowers and they created lots of noxious fumes that are unpleasant and dangerous to breathe 
in, similar to standing next to an idling pickup truck (but much worse). We purchased an electric leafblower for the 
landscaping service to use, which was better from an environmental standpoint. The landscaper simply plugged it into 
an outlet on the side of our house using a long extension cord, which will be sufficient for the vast majority of residential 
jobs and will not require carrying a battery at all. I believe the fears of costs being passed onto the consumer are much 
exaggerated; electricity is much cheaper than gas, which customers are already paying for. And it will be much 
healthier for the people actually operating the leafblowers who have to breathe in these fumes day after day. Banning 
gas leafblowers will be a step in the right direction ‐‐ we need to do everything we can to address the climate change 
crisis. 
 
On a side note: I recognize that everyone will have different needs and preferences for how they clean up their yards, 
particularly commercial applications, but I have actually stopped using these services altogether and my soil is much 
healthier and more productive and absorbs more rainwater, avoiding runoff/flooding. 
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
Regards, 
 
Maggie Trinh 
68 of 68