--- page 1 ---
Ithaca Common Council votes to end
contract with Flock Safety
WSKG | By Aurora Berry
Published March 4, 2026 at 11:24 PM EST
Aurora Berry / WSKG News
A protester dressed as a Flock Camera at Wednesday's rally.
Ithaca is the latest city to end its relationship with Flock Safety over privacy and data-
sharing concerns.
The Ithaca Common Council passed a resolution Wednesday night that ends the
city’s contract with the company. Flock sells automatic license plate readers (ALPR),
which record the license plate numbers and other identifying characteristics of
passing vehicles.
Law enforcement can search Flock’s database for cars based on that information.
Give Now

--- page 2 ---
Flock sells hardware and software to both law enforcement agencies and private
customers like schools, homeowners associations, universities, and retailers.
Alongside their ALPRs and corresponding software, the company also produces
drones and gunshot-detection devices.
The Ithaca Police Department announced its plan to contract with Flock in 2023. The
Tompkins County Sheriff’s Office has a contract with the company for cameras and
audio-detection software, although the Tompkins County Legislature recently
discussed plans for a working group that will examine the county’s policies regarding
Flock.
The county legislature previously voted to accept the state’s Gun Involved Violence
Elimination (GIVE) grant, which pays for the Flock contract, despite pushback from
some residents. Ithaca’s cameras are also paid for by the grant.
Ithaca’s cancellation comes amid an ongoing campaign by activists to end all local
contracts with Flock Safety. Protesters rallied outside city hall before the meeting
Wednesday.
Ithaca resident Ann Johnson said the cameras in her neighborhood unsettled her and
made her feel like she was being treated like a criminal.
“It just felt extremely wrong to me, just wrong in the bones of my body,” Johnson said.
Local law enforcement have defended their contracts with Flock.
At Wednesday’s meeting, Ithaca Police Chief Thomas Kelly described the cameras
as a valuable tool.
“What keeps me up is not being able to do my job, and not being able to have the
resources to accomplish that,” he said.
Ithaca Mayor Robert Cantelmo voted in favor of the resolution.
“I don't know that I could live with myself if I allowed something to exist in our
community that directly or indirectly led to someone's civil liberties being violated,” he
said.

--- page 3 ---
Some council members responded to language in the contract that allows Flock to
share footage with law enforcement authorities, government officials and third parties
“if legally required to do so, or if Flock has a good faith belief that such access, use,
preservation or disclosure is reasonably necessary to comply with the legal process,
enforce this agreement or detect, prevent or otherwise address security, privacy,
fraud or technical issues for emergency situations.”
The resolution to end the city’s contract with Flock Safety was submitted by
Alderperson Robin Trumble, who says the technology conflicts with Ithaca's
“sanctuary city” policies.
Trumble and multiple other alderpersons said that the resolution to cancel the
contract was not meant to be a disparagement of the police chief or police
department.
“I just want to reiterate, too, a lot of my colleagues have been saying that this is not at
all attacking IPD or law enforcement,” Trumble said at the meeting. “In fact, I think
you've been doing an amazing job so far with what’s a very challenging role. But
yeah, I mean, this is clearly an anti-Flock issue.”
In a memo presented alongside the resolution, Trumble cites the use of the
company’s database for immigration enforcement across the country as a reason for
cancellation.
“While proponents argue that such surveillance tools can assist law enforcement in
solving crimes and recovering stolen property, critics point to documented instances
where data was accessed by outside agencies without explicit local authorization,
fueling privacy concerns and eroding public trust,” the document reads.
Some police departments outside of Ithaca have deliberately shared access to their
database with federal agencies for immigration enforcement purposes. 
However, federal agencies have also accessed camera data from some police
departments without their explicit permission or awareness.
Last year, the Central Current reported that Syracuse was included in 175 “CBP-
related” searches because the city had "inadvertently" opted into a nationwide

--- page 4 ---
database.
According to a January blog post from Flock, “if a local agency chooses not to
collaborate with any federal entity, including ICE, Flock has no ability to override that
decision. Similarly, if a community chooses to work with a federal agency, Flock has
no ability to change that decision.”
Last year, the Illinois Secretary of State found that the company unlawfully shared its
data with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). Flock announced that it had
paused its work with CBP and Homeland Security shortly afterwards.
Ithaca is not the first city to end their relationship with Flock. Austin, Texas, Flagstaff,
Arizona, Eugene, Oregon and the Village of Saranac Lake in New York are just a few
municipalities that have voted to stop or pause their relationship with the company.
Tags
Local News
 
flock safety
ithaca
Aurora Berry
See stories by Aurora Berry
News
Binghamton man dies from injuries after assault, five teens charged with
murder
Latest From WSKG:

--- page 5 ---
Stay Connected
© 2026 WSKG
Please send correspondence and donations to the Vestal address below:
601 Gates Road
Vestal, NY 13850
217 N Aurora St
Ithaca, NY 14850
FCC LICENSE RENEWAL
FCC Public Files:
WSKG-FM · WSQX-FM · WSQG-FM · WSQE · WSQA · WSQC-FM · WSQN · WSKG-TV · WSKA
About Us
Local News
Videos show Cornell University president reversing car into student
Local News
Broome legislature cancels special session about land bank funding
Local News
Residents weigh in on Broome Technology Park at public hearing

--- page 6 ---
Mission & Station
WSKG Board of Trustees
Community Advisory Board (CAB)
Jobs
Contact Us
Staff Directory
WSKG Public Reports & Policies
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
Protect My Public Media
TV & Radio Full Frequency Information
Caption & Reception Issues
Report an Outage
Newsletter Sign-Up
Pay Underwriting Invoice