source: packet.pdf
sha256: 31ec57c7b39288b3c2849933ba38236b559c6389dc792e0740bdcf847237180e
pages: 7
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
September 7, 2021
5:30 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: Tuesday, September 7, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 816 0461 1804
Passcode: 548764
CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the consideration of these items. Following the meeting a report of action
from Closed Session will be provided if required.
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Workers' Compensation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9 Name of cases: Manuel Avalos, Raymont
Afuhaamango
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
2.
Reducing the Impact Fee Burden on Affordable Housing – Policy Options Review
Review policy options for reducing the impact fee burden on affordable housing projects and provide staff
direction on exploring possible incentive programs for affordable housing.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
(continue on next page)
1 of 7

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 7

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CLOSED SESSION
File ID: 21-5105
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
September 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Workers' Compensation
RECOMMENDATION:
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9 
Name of cases: Manuel Avalos, Raymont Afuhaamango
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Yuliya Shukhat, Senior Risk Management Analyst
yshukhat@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7263
3 of 7

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
File ID: 21-5061
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
September 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Reducing the Impact Fee Burden on Affordable Housing – Policy Options Review
RECOMMENDATION:
Review policy options for reducing the impact fee burden on affordable housing projects and provide staff direction on 
exploring possible incentive programs for affordable housing.
BACKGROUND:
On June 7, 2021, staff presented City Council with the findings of a comprehensive development impact fee study. This 
study was carried out to ensure the City’s development impact and in-lieu fees align with the actual costs various types of 
developments impose on San Mateo’s infrastructure. During that meeting, City Council approved a number of structural 
changes to streamline the existing fee structure and asked staff to set the fees at a level that would recover costs for most 
land uses. In addition, City Council requested additional information about possible subsidies or fee reductions for 
affordable housing.
Over the last several weeks, staff have conducted a review of various policies utilized by other California jurisdictions to 
incentivize affordable housing. In general, these fall into one of two categories:
1.
Fee Deferral Programs: Although many jurisdictions collect impact fees when a building permit is issued, some 
offer developers the opportunity to defer the payment of impact fees to a later date, such as the issuance of a 
certificate of occupancy. This allows developers additional time to secure necessary financing and would save 
developers any interest that would have otherwise accrued on a loan in the intervening period. In addition, even 
though the payment itself might occur at a later date, these programs also generally lock in the fee rates in effect 
at the time of the building permit issuance, giving developers a guarantee that the fee rates will not increase 
during the deferral period.
2.
Fee Waiver Programs: Some jurisdictions allow affordable housing projects to apply for fee waivers if they are 
located in certain geographic areas or meet specific conditions. These waivers or reductions can be used to 
incentivize certain types of development, like affordable housing, but present jurisdictions with the trade-off of 
identifying alternative funding sources to pay for any necessary infrastructure improvements associated with that 
development. 
This report will examine each of these types of policies in greater detail and how they could be implemented in San Mateo.
Fee Deferrals
Currently, the City assesses and collects payments for development impact fees at the time of building permit issuance. 
Depending on a project’s size, this could be several months to a few years before an applicant receives a certificate of 
4 of 7

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
occupancy for their development. In general, the earlier that the fee assessment occurs in the development pipeline, the 
more the applicant will need to pay in accrued interest, depending on how the project is financed. For example, Table 1 
illustrates how the deferred collection of impact fees might impact a hypothetical residential project:
Table 1: Financial Implications of Impact Fee Deferral
225 Unit Multifamily Residential Project
18 month timeline from issuance of building permits to certificate of occupancy
Total Impact Fees (Based on New Nexus Study)
$9,800,000
Construction Loan Interest Rate
4.0%
Interest Saved with Deferred Payment
$588,000
Although this is the more common policy, it does raise some challenges for local jurisdictions, particularly when it comes to 
projecting future revenue. To that end, it increases the uncertainty of a payment timeline and would delay the City’s ability 
to pay for infrastructure projects. In addition, when the City worked with Economic and Planning Systems, Inc. to update 
the inclusionary housing requirements, the development costs of a multi-family project were estimated to be in excess of 
$800,000 per unit, which means a total savings of $588,000 would likely not serve as much of an incentive for a developer 
to add additional affordable units. 
Fee Waivers
Other jurisdictions have utilized fee waivers or fee reductions to lower construction costs for affordable projects. In some 
cases, this is tied to projects built in a certain geographic area, to encourage transit-oriented development, for example. In 
others, jurisdictions have either waived or significantly reduced their impact fees on projects with a certain concentration 
of affordable housing. 
For example, in 2018, the City of Sacramento passed a resolution to reduce certain impact fees to a zero-dollar rate for 
affordable dwelling units. As a result, affordable dwelling units subject to a regulatory agreement between the relevant 
public agency and the property owner are not subject to any impact fees charged by the City of Sacramento. Sacramento 
County offers a similar program for affordable housing projects constructed in the County’s unincorporated areas with an 
annual cap of 200 dwelling units.
A full or partial fee waiver can offer a much stronger financial incentive than a fee deferral program. To demonstrate the 
possible impact, Table 2 shows the estimated impact fee charges for Kiku Crossing, the City’s recently-approved downtown 
affordable housing project. In this case, even a small percentage reduction in impact fees would create significant savings 
for the developer.
Table 2: Full Cost Impact Fees
Kiku Crossing, Downtown Affordable Housing Site with 225 Affordable Units
Park In-Lieu / Impact Fee
$4,380,750
Waste Water Treatment Plant Phase II Expansion Fee
$146,718
Transportation Improvement Fee
$657,536.50
Sewer Connection Charge
$415,594
Total Impact Fees
$5,600,598.50
However, this greater financial incentive means a jurisdiction forgoes a larger amount of funding for future infrastructure 
improvements and must seek out alternative funding sources to make up for the shortfall. Jurisdictions can mitigate those 
losses by setting an annual cap, either based on a number of units or an overall dollar figure, or by including only certain 
fees in the waiver program if there are concerns about the costs of a certain type of infrastructure improvement.  
Policy Options for San Mateo
San Mateo already has policies in place to require the development of affordable housing, including its existing 
inclusionary requirement whereby all new multifamily residential projects consisting of 11 or more units are required to:
5 of 7

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

set aside 15% of ownership units to be affordable to moderate income families, or;

set aside 15% of rental units to be affordable to low income families.
These requirements, which were revised in February 2020, ensure that at least 15% of units in large residential projects 
constructed in San Mateo are affordable. In the past, a few projects, including 303 Baldwin and 1650 S. Delaware, actually 
exceeded the City’s inclusionary requirements to take advantage of State density bonus law.  Other current pipeline 
projects have expressed interest in providing units at lower levels of affordability than what the City requires to achieve a 
larger density bonus and improve the economic feasibility of their projects.
However, affordable housing projects continue to face significant financial constraints, and the proposed development fee 
increases could make the creation of affordable housing even more difficult in San Mateo. As a result, and in response to 
City Council’s request to explore possible incentive programs for affordable housing, staff is putting forward the following 
options for Council consideration:
1.
Waive or Reduce Fees for Any Units Provided Above and Beyond the City’s Inclusionary Requirements
As an added incentive for developers to provide additional affordable units, the City could waive or reduce the impact 
fees charged on any units that exceed the City’s inclusionary housing requirements. Based on the proposed impact 
fees presented to Council on June 7, 2021, multifamily housing developments would be subject to a per-unit cost of 
roughly $38-43,000 in development impact fees, depending on the number of bedrooms in the unit. 
Table 3 illustrates the potential fee burden for a 100% affordable 225 unit project under the new proposed fees with 
no reduction for affordable units, a reduction of 50% for units above and beyond the City’s inclusionary requirements, 
and a full 100% waiver for units above and beyond the City’s inclusionary requirements.
Table 3: Impact/In-Lieu Fee Scenarios for 225 Affordable Unit Multifamily Residential Project
Fee Type
No Waiver or Reduction
50% Fee Reduction for 
Units Above Inclusionary 
Requirement
100% Fee Reduction for 
Units Above Inclusionary 
Requirement
Park Impact Fee
$6,037,200
$3,474,744
$912,288
Sewer Capacity Charge
$1,878,525
$1,081,170
$283,860
Transportation 
Improvement Fee
$710,775
$409,091
$107,406
Childcare Impact Fee
$699,075
$402,357
$105,638
Total Fees Paid
$9,325,530
$5,367,362
$1,409,192
Total Saved vs. Full Cost
$3,958,168
$7,916,338
This assumes each unit contains 2 bedrooms on average for the purposes of the Sewer Capacity Charge. In addition, this 
table does not include the Art in Public Places fee, which is based on a project’s valuation rather than number of units. 
However, Art in Public Places could be included in a fee reduction or waiver policy should Council wish to do so.
Fee waivers or reductions present a clear financial benefit for projects that are comprised solely (or mostly) of 
affordable units. It is more difficult to determine whether such a waiver would incentivize market-rate projects to 
provide additional affordable units on the margins, particularly with frequent changes to State density bonus law and 
fluctuations in construction costs. However, a full or partial waiver of impact fees may encourage developers to 
include additional affordable units to receive a greater density bonus, something that developers have done 
voluntarily on a very small scale before under the City’s previous inclusionary housing guidelines.
Should the City Council decide to implement this type of waiver or reduction, the City would need to identify 
alternative funding sources to make up for the shortfall and fund future infrastructure improvements. This funding 
could come from a variety of sources, but the City cannot use fees by paid market rate developers to make up for any 
shortfall.
2.
Create a Fee Deferral Program for Affordable Housing Projects
6 of 7

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
If Council believes the potential cost of a fee waiver or reduction policy is too high, a fee deferral program could also 
offer some financial relief for affordable housing developers. The City would still recover the full impact fee amount 
from a given development, but the collection of the fee would be delayed for a specified period of time. This deferral 
would allow a developer to avoid financing the fee amount for that period of time and likely provide greater funding 
and financing flexibility for the project. In addition, the project would be subject to the fees in place at the time of 
building permit issuance, so any annual increases or fee revisions would not impact the financing of the project.
However, as noted above, a fee deferral program would introduce some additional uncertainty for the City’s revenue 
projections, likely require significant administrative support to create and process deferral agreements, and provide 
less of a financial incentive for affordable housing developers than a fee waiver or reduction.
CITY COUNCIL GUIDANCE REQUESTED:

Would the Council like to pursue a fee waiver or reduction program? 
o
If so:

What percentage of which fees would Council like to reduce?

Is Council comfortable with applying said reduction to affordable units in excess of the City’s 
inclusionary requirements?
o
If not:

Would Council instead wish to implement a deferral program for affordable housing projects?

Does the Council have any additional direction or policies they would like staff to evaluate? 
NEXT STEPS:
Following the Study Session, staff will work to put together Council’s preferred policy option and return to Council at a 
future date for further discussion and adoption. In addition, staff will be bringing the revised impact and in-lieu fees to 
Council in two phases this fall. The first will include the adoption of those fees reviewed at the June 7, 2021 Council 
meeting that do not require changes to the City’s Municipal Code. Staff will then return at a subsequent meeting with the 
proposed Code amendments necessary to implement the remaining impact and in-lieu fees.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The budget impact of the chosen policy option will be dependent on both Council direction and the amount of future 
construction.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This policy review is not a project subject to CEQA, because the City Council is not taking action at this time.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Brian Alexander, Senior Management Analyst
balexander@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7209
7 of 7