Springfield shares Flock camera data with ICE-affiliated agencies, blocks immigration searches | Local | springfieldnewssun.com Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Close Facebook Twitter TikTok Instagram Site search Search Log In Log In Subscribe for 99¢ Subscriber Benefits Sign Up for Newsletters Help Center Subscriber Benefits Sign Up for Newsletters Help Center Subscribe for 99¢ ePaper Quick Links My Account ePaper Newsletters Subscribe Subscriber Benefits Help Center News Tip Letter to the Editor News Local News Crime & Public Safety Business & Economy Investigations Schools & Education Community Government & Politics Elections Health & Wellness Military News Ohio News Nation & World Latest Photos Traffic Weather Lifestyles Events & Things to Do Food & Dining Best of Springfield In Your Prime Entertainment Sports Athlete of the Week High School Sports Cincinnati Bengals Cincinnati Reds Cleveland Browns OSU Buckeyes Sponsored Content Opinion ePaper Obituaries Homes Puzzles & Games Classifieds Legal Notices Daily Law Journal Grow Your Business Newspaper Archives Help Center Homes Obituaries Legal Notices ePaper 76° Clear Site search Search Menu Log In Log In Subscribe for 99¢ Subscriber Benefits Sign Up for Newsletters Help Center Subscriber Benefits Sign Up for Newsletters Help Center Subscribe for 99¢ ePaper Log In Log In Subscribe for 99¢ Subscriber Benefits Sign Up for Newsletters Help Center Subscriber Benefits Sign Up for Newsletters Help Center Subscribe for 99¢ ePaper Home About Us Contact Us ePaper Local Best of Springfield Business Sports Investigations Food Things to Do Share This Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Weather Alert Heat Advisory from FRI 8:00 PM EDT until SAT 8:00 PM EDT Air Quality Alert until SAT 1:00 AM EDT Weather Alert ...HEAT ADVISORY REMAINS IN EFFECT UNTIL 8 PM EDT SATURDAY... ...EXTREME HEAT WARNING WILL EXPIRE AT 8 PM EDT THIS EVENING... * WHAT...Heat index values up to 100 expected. * WHERE...Portions of east central and southeast Indiana, northeast and northern Kentucky, and central, south central, southwest, and west central Ohio. * WHEN...Until 8 PM EDT Saturday. * IMPACTS...Hot temperatures and high humidity may cause heat illnesses. PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS... Drink plenty of fluids, stay in air-conditioned rooms, stay out of the sun, and check up on relatives and neighbors. Take extra precautions when outside. Wear lightweight and loose fitting clothing. Try to limit strenuous activities to early morning or evening. Take action when you see symptoms of heat exhaustion and heat stroke. && Weather Alert ...AIR QUALITY ALERT IN EFFECT UNTIL MIDNIGHT EDT SUNDAY NIGHT... The Miami Valley Regional Planning Commission and the Regional Air Pollution Control Agency have issued an Air Quality Alert for Clark, Darke, Greene, Miami, Montgomery, Preble, and Shelby counties in the Miami Valley Region, from midnight tonight to midnight EDT Sunday night. Fine particulate levels are expected to be in the Unhealthy for Sensitive Groups range. Active children and adults, and people with respiratory disease, such as asthma should limit prolonged outdoor exposure. For additional actions and information, visit miamivalleyair.org or call 937-223-6323 Close Lowe’s stores across the region have automated license plate readers, typically at entry points into the properties or in the parking lots. Records of Flock shared networks obtained by this news outlet indicate that Lowe’s and Home Depot stores in the state provide at least some local police agencies with access to their stores’ ALPR databases. CORNELIUS FROLIK / STAFF CORNELIUS FROLIK / STAFF Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save A Flock camera on Xenia Avenue, in Dayton, in May. The city of Dayton has since covered its Flock cameras in the city. CORNELIUS FROLIK / STAFF CORNELIUS FROLIK / STAFF Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Springfield police cruisers in 2022. FILE Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Featured Springfield shares Flock camera data with ICE-affiliated agencies, blocks immigration searches Cornelius Frolik and Jessica Orozco - Staff Writers Jun 25, 2026 Jun 25, 2026 Updated Jun 26, 2026 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Lowe’s stores across the region have automated license plate readers, typically at entry points into the properties or in the parking lots. Records of Flock shared networks obtained by this news outlet indicate that Lowe’s and Home Depot stores in the state provide at least some local police agencies with access to their stores’ ALPR databases. CORNELIUS FROLIK / STAFF CORNELIUS FROLIK / STAFF Springfield, like many Ohio cities, uses automated license plate readers and shares the data the cameras collect with outside agencies. However, the city remains a unique flashpoint in the national immigration debate following Donald Trump’s debunked 2024 claims regarding Haitian migrants. Springfield police provide about 2,500 outside agencies with access to its Flock automated license plate reader database, including some groups that have cooperation agreements with Immigration and Customs Enforcement and others that have searched local police departments’ ALPR databases for immigration-related reasons, according to Flock network records obtained by the Springfield News-Sun. Haitian nationals who have lived in Springfield lawfully through the Temporary Protected Status program potentially could be detained and deported after the U.S. Supreme Court on Thursday, June 25, gave the Trump administration the green light to cancel Haiti’s TPS designation. Springfield police cruisers in 2022. FILE Some community members and immigrant advocacy groups say they fear that federal authorities may try to use data from Springfield’s ALPR system to locate immigrants and take action against them. However, Springfield Police Division Captain Jeff Williams said as of earlier this year that the agency filters out any immigration-related searches. “We wanted to make sure that any searches for anyone that might be in Springfield or the vehicles that might be in Springfield are truly crime-related,” Williams said. “Our position on immigration is that we are here to make sure that everyone in this city is safe, regardless if they’re a legal immigrant, an illegal immigrant, someone who’s been here for decades, someone who just moved here; we don’t care. We want everybody to be safe.” Springfield Police Chief Allison Elliott said all law enforcement agencies who access Flock data do so with the understanding that they must be searching for a legitimate law enforcement purpose, very similar to the rules surrounding accessing the Ohio Law Enforcement Gateway, which SPD uses as its reporting system. “We recognize that things do occur and if something [wrong] is brought to our attention, obviously we will be sure that we address that … but we operate in good faith,” Elliott said. “And that they are operating in good faith in accordance with our guidelines and their agency’s policies and guidelines.” The Springfield News-Sun, through a public records request, obtained a list of outside agencies that can access the Springfield Police Department’s Flock ALPR database. Springfield has 38 ALPR Flock cameras in the city, which officials say were installed in “hot spot” locations that were selected based on an analysis of crime and public safety data. Flock cameras: How they work and why some are concerned The 2,500 groups with network access include many Ohio police departments and sheriff’s offices, and a variety of agencies around the country. Springfield has access to about 2,755 Flock networks and Williams said some data was shared “proactively” and the sharing agency did not ask Springfield to reciprocate. Some networks are from private businesses that would not be privy to law enforcement data. The Springfield Police Division denied this news outlet’s request for audit logs that would show which external agencies have searched the department’s ALPR database and the reasons they provided for running their queries. They cited state law that they said states ALPR search data is not a public record and search audits would be classified as data. Other police departments in southwest Ohio have provided audit logs to the Springfield News-Sun, which revealed that many have allowed external agencies to search their databases explicitly for immigration reasons. In internal audits of Springfield Flock camera searches, Elliott said none related to immigration have been found. However, there usually are far more database searches by external agencies than there are internal queries. Flock, a leading maker of ALPR systems, says the company does not have any agreements with ICE, and federal authorities do not have direct access to its customers’ ALPR systems. However, local and state law enforcement with Flock cameras can share their data with ICE or potentially can search external databases on ICE’s behalf. Records reveal that about 150 of the agencies that have permission to search the Springfield police’s Flock database have 287(g) agreements with ICE, according to this news outlet’s analysis. 287(g) memorandums of understanding allow local law enforcement to enforce some aspects of federal immigration law. A Flock camera on Xenia Avenue, in Dayton, in May. The city of Dayton has since covered its Flock cameras in the city. CORNELIUS FROLIK / STAFF CORNELIUS FROLIK / STAFF For instance, the Sevierville Police Department in Tennessee, which has access to Springfield’s Flock network, recently helped ICE make more than 100 arrests of people suspected of living in the country illegally. The eastern Tennessee police department also conducted dozens of immigration-related searches of the Tipp City Police Department’s ALPR database from early March to early April, according to Tipp City’s Flock audit records. Springfield police also share network access with the Marshall County Sheriff’s Office in northeastern Alabama. The sheriff’s office, which has an ICE 287(g) agreement, arrested around 14 people for immigration-related offenses during a traffic operation late last year, and the agency also searched Tipp City’s ALPR database dozens of times in March for immigration-related purposes. The Springfield News-Sun identified about 18 agencies that have access to Springfield’s ALPR database that also both have ICE agreements and recently searched local police departments’ Flock networks explicitly for immigration reasons. Melissa Rexroth, a community activist in Springfield, recently publicly asked the Springfield City Commission to cancel the city’s contract with Flock . Rexroth told the Springfield News-Sun that she does not think the police department should be sharing ALPR data with outside organizations. She said the city right now cannot be trusted to protect people’s privacy. “The way that they run things there is no transparency, there’s no accountability, there’s no oversight,” she said. “I don’t trust them to have any of this information. … There’s so many things we don’t know.” Dayton Public Schools board votes to continue using Flock cameras Rexroth said ALPRs are a real threat to immigrants, including Haitian-born community members who could lose legal protections. She said Springfield police, generally speaking, have been fairly good to the city’s Haitian population, but ALPR data is a big problem if it winds up in the wrong hands. Many Haitian TPS holders have lawfully lived in the United States long enough that they have automobiles registered in their names, and ALPR data potentially could help authorities track these community members and determine where they go and where they can be found, said Kathleen Kersh, managing attorney at Advocates for Basic Legal Equality, a nonprofit that provides legal services to immigrants. Kersh said she has come to the conclusion that there are no safeguards that can be put in place that can truly prevent Flock ALPRs from being misused, including for immigration enforcement. “If the point of cameras is to share data with other agencies — which I think it is, at the end of the day — then you can’t really ever make sure that those agencies are not sharing data with ICE,” she said. Vilès Dorsainvil, president of the local Haitian Community Help and Support Center, said he believes ICE will use whatever method they can to access the data of Haitian immigrants. “I think whichever way possible for them to attain their objectives or their purpose, they will do it, whether it is through the police force or the through any type of institution,” Dorsainvil said, though he noted he has not heard of this happening in Springfield. Immigration-related searches are not the only type of query that concerns privacy advocacy groups. An investigation by the Springfield Sun-News found that outside law enforcement can search Flock ALPR systems for all kinds of stated reasons, and there is no surefire way to verify that the reasons provided are the actual reasons for the searches. Countless ALPR network searches have vague search descriptions, like “investigation,” “other — information” or “other — investigation.” But Williams said Springfield has a setting enabled that requires agencies to type a reason after selecting a more vague reason like “other” and if SPD found anyone was being “deceptive,” they would immediately stop sharing the network with them and take appropriate steps. The cameras are set up in a way that ensures they only capture images visible in a public right-of-way, Williams said. The Springfield police department is working toward finalizing an update to the audit policy, Elliott said. The city of Dayton recently turned off its fixed-site ALPR cameras after revealing that thousands of external searches of its network were conducted explicitly for immigration-related reasons, even though this violated police policy. The city of Kettering stopped allowing immigration-related searches by outside groups after this news outlet requested — and later obtained — ALPR data showing that this type of query was taking place. Kersh, with ABLE, believes that communities should get rid of their plate readers, because she says there is no way to guarantee they are being used the right way, in line with policies and community expectations. But, failing that, she said cities and police departments should restrict how long ALPR data is retained. A Springfield training bulletin says Flock will only maintain ALPR images for 30 days. Some agencies only keep the data for 24 hours or less. Kersh said this is one way to help ensure that ALPR data is used for law enforcement purposes and not for mass surveillance. Elliott said the police department has heard privacy concerns and take those seriously. She said since the department starting using ALPRs in 2023, the technology’s ability to solve crimes has “drastically increased.” “We understand why folks become concerned, especially if you’re not familiar with the different platforms and their capabilities,” Elliott said. “We want to have those conversations with people and we take each matter seriously that somebody brings to our attention. We’re constantly evolving as well with our systems and putting safeguards into place, and if we do find an issue that has come up we want to be aware of it and we want to make sure that we’re looking into it and addressing it as needed. Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save Cornelius Frolik Author email Jessica Orozco Staff Writer Author email Latest Regional News Local Cincinnati Reds Hayes to rehab with Dayton Dragons tonight Local Huber Heights man dead after multi-car crash on I-70 near Springfield Opinion OPINION: God bless America for all of her flaws and splendor Opinion OPINION: Ohioans foot the bill for Mike Turner’s mess Opinion OPINION: Ohioans foot the bill for Mike Turner’s mess Customer Service Help Center Contact Us Our Newsroom Grow Your Business Newspaper Archives Work Here Our Products ePaper Newsletters All Products Download iOS App Download Android App Subscription Manage Subscription Subscribe Subscription Terms & Conditions NIE/Newspapers in Education Follow Us Facebook Twitter TikTok Instagram × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 Springfield News-Sun. All Rights Reserved. | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Manage Choices We use cookies and similar technologies to understand site performance, enable social media functions, enhance our marketing efforts, and serve more relevant content and advertisements to you. We record, use, and share this information with third parties for their own marketing and business purposes. To opt out or manage your preferences, Manage Choices . For more information, visit our Privacy Policy . Accept Cookies Reject All Non-Essential Cookies Manage Choices Opt-Out Request Honored Preference Center When you visit our website, we may store or retrieve information on your browser, mostly in the form of cookies. This information might be about you, your preferences, or your device, and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to. Because we respect your right to privacy, you can choose not to allow some types of cookies. However, blocking some types of cookies may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. Also, you cannot opt-out of “essential” cookies as these are deployed to ensure the proper functioning of our website (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, etc.). Click on the different category headings to find out more. To change the default setting for any category of “non-essential” cookies, click the toggle next to that category and then click the “Confirm My Choices” button below. To opt-out of targeted advertising or the sale or sharing of your personal information online, click the “Reject All Non-Essential Cookies” button below. To submit a request to opt-out of targeted advertising or the sale or sharing of your personal information offline, click here and submit the applicable form. For more information, visit our Privacy Policy . Manage Consent Preferences Essential Cookies Always Active These cookies are necessary for the site to function and cannot be switched off using this system. These cookies are usually only set in response to actions made by you such as setting your privacy preferences or accessing your account. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site may not work if you do so. Performance Cookies Performance Cookies These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic on the site so we may understand how people use our site and improve its performance. These cookies may be placed on our site by us (or by our vendors) to collect analytics, statistics, and other information about how you and others use the site. Targeting Cookies Targeting Cookies These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising. Functional Cookies Functional Cookies These cookies enable the site to provide enhanced functionality and personalization, including services and tools we have added to the site that are provided by other parties. If you do not allow these cookies, then some or all of these services or tools may not function properly. Cookie List Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Accept All Reject All Non-Essential Cookies Confirm My Choices