source: packet.pdf
sha256: 326eba1258847f1f321b58f562d138cb61505830be870f8662930535055b63fe
pages: 22
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
SAN MATEO – FOSTER CITY
PUBLIC FINANCING AUTHORITY
February 6, 2020
6:00 PM
MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, San Mateo Council, Chair
Catherine Mahanpour, Foster City Council, Vice Chair
Drew Corbett, City Manager, San Mateo
Jeff Moneda, City Manager, Foster City
San Mateo City Hall
Conference Room C
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
REGULAR MEETING AGENDA
ROLL CALL
FOSTER CITY REPRESENTATIVES for this meeting will be located at this address: 610 Foster City Blvd., Foster City, CA
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to staff a “Request to Speak” form. State law
prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on the agenda. Your comments may be referred to staff for further
review.
NEW BUSINESS
1.
Approval of Bond Sale
Adopt a resolution authorizing the sale of lease revenue bonds to finance capital improvement projects and the
refinancing of outstanding bonds for the benefit of the City of San Mateo, and approving related documents and
official actions.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission request for scheduling future items.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the City Clerk's Office at (650) 522-7040 or polds@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 22

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 20-2349
TO:
San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority
FROM:
Rich Lee
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
February 06, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Approval of Bond Sale
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a resolution authorizing the sale of lease revenue bonds to finance capital improvement projects and the 
refinancing of outstanding bonds for the benefit of the City of San Mateo, and approving related documents and official 
actions. 
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority (the “Authority”) was created in 2016 to finance the public 
improvements of its members. The City of San Mateo (the “City”) and the Estero Municipal Improvement District are its 
only members.
In 2011, the City caused the City of San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority to issue lease revenue bonds (the “2011 
Bonds”) to finance levee improvements benefitting the South Bayfront neighborhood.  Due to lower interest rates, the 
2011 Bonds can be refinanced at this time to achieve debt service savings.
Further, the City is undertaking a major city-wide street reconstruction project and a flood control improvement project 
that it will finance using a lease-leaseback financing structure, and proposes to use the Authority as a lessor.  
To provide sufficient funds to achieve these objectives, the City will lease its main library to the Authority for a lump sum 
payment pursuant to a site lease, and will lease the library back from the Authority pursuant to a lease agreement (the 
“Lease Agreement”), making lease payments over a 30-year period.  The Authority, which does not have sufficient funds to 
make the payment due under the site lease, will sell lease revenue bonds secured by the Lease Agreement, and will use 
the lease payments to be made by the City to pay debt service on the revenue bonds.  The Authority will use the proceeds 
of the bonds to make the site lease payment and to pay for the costs of issuing the bonds.
The City will use the proceeds of the site lease payment to construct the street improvements and the flood control 
improvements, and to refinance the 2011 Bonds.  
The bonds are a limited obligation of the Authority, payable solely from the lease payments to be made by the City and 
installment payments made by the City under two installment payment contracts (the City will make the installment 
payments from assessment revenues collected in the South Bayfront and North Shoreview assessment districts).
On Monday, January 21, 2020, the City of San Mateo City Council held a noticed public hearing and passed a resolution 
authorizing the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority to sell bonds in an amount not greater than $54 million 
2 of 22

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
(subject to limits on the bond cost of money expressed as a “net interest cost,” the underwriting discount, and the net 
present value savings achieved on the refinancing of the 2011 Bonds) and approving documents and actions in connection 
with the sale of such bonds.
The City previously used the City of San Mateo Joint Powers Public Authority for financings such as this.  However, that 
authority is a joint powers authority between the City and the City’s redevelopment agency, and the City’s bond counsel 
has determined that because the redevelopment agency has been dissolved and succeeded by the successor agency 
(which will dissolve when its final enforceable obligation has been satisfied), the existing joint powers authority cannot 
issue bonds that amortize beyond the longest maturity of the successor agency’s outstanding bonds, which is 2032. 
Because the 2020 Bond maturity extends beyond this date, the San Mateo – Foster City Public Financing Authority is being 
used in this financing. 
REQUIRED APPROVALS
The resolution before the Authority approves the sale of lease revenue bonds in an amount not greater than $54 million, 
approves an indenture of trust, a site lease, the Lease Agreement, the two installment payment contracts described above, 
a bond purchase agreement with the underwriter of the bonds, and an assignment agreement whereby the Authority 
assigns certain of its rights under the Lease Agreement to the bond trustee, approves the preliminary official statement 
describing the 2020 Bonds in substantially the form on file with the Authority Secretary, and approves the distribution of 
the final official statement by the underwriter.  The resolution further approves execution of an agreement with Jones Hall 
for bond counsel/disclosure counsel services and agreements with the firms of William Euphrat Municipal Finance, Inc. and 
Kitahata & Company as municipal advisors to the Authority in connection with the issuance of the 2020 Bonds.  Finally, the 
resolution identifies officers of the Authority who are authorized to execute any and all other such documents that are 
necessary for the sale of the 2020 Bonds.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The 2020 Bonds are limited obligations of the Authority, payable solely from the lease payments and the installment 
payments to be made by the City.  In the event bonds are not sold, all costs incurred by the Authority in connection with 
the preparation of the sale of the 2020 Bonds shall be paid by the City. The responsibility for lease payments and 
installment payments to the Authority for the 2020 Bonds are solely the City of San Mateo. The City of Foster City has no 
debt obligation with the 2020 Bonds.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The sale of bonds is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)[same comment re 
CEQA]
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – Administrative Report and Resolution from the City of San Mateo
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
3 of 22

--- page 4 ---
SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY PUBLIC FINANCING 
AUTHORITY
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-__
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF LEASE REVENUE 
BONDS TO FINANCE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS AND TO 
REFINANCE OUTSTANDING BONDS FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, AND APPROVING RELATED DOCUMENTS 
AND OFFICIAL ACTIONS
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (the “City”) wishes to finance the acquisition 
and construction of public improvements (the “Project”) of the City, including street and 
flood control improvements; and
WHEREAS, under the Benefit Assessment Act of 1982 (the “Benefit Assessment 
Act”), Resolution No. 46 (2009) adopted by the City Council on April 20, 2009, and 
Resolution No. 122 (2009) adopted by the City Council on July 13, 2009, the City 
established the City of San Mateo South Bayfront Levee and Flood Control Facilities 
Assessment District (the “South Bayfront Levee and Flood Control Facilities Assessment 
District”) to finance flood control improvements along portions of the San Francisco Bay 
shoreline; and
WHEREAS, under the Benefit Assessment Act, Resolution No. 41 (2013) adopted 
by the City Council on April 1, 2013, and Resolution No. 95 (2013) adopted by the City 
Council on July 15, 2013, the City modified the boundaries of the South Bayfront Levee 
and Flood Control Facilities Assessment District and levied a modified assessment; and
WHEREAS, under the Benefit Assessment Act, Resolution No. 3 (2018) adopted 
by the City Council on January 2, 2018, and Resolution No. 34 (2018) adopted by the City 
Council on March 19, 2018, the City established the City of San Mateo North Shoreview 
Flood Control Facilities Improvement Assessment District (the “North Shoreview Flood 
Control Facilities Improvement Assessment District”) to finance flood control 
improvements in the North Shoreview neighborhood along portions of the San Francisco 
Bay shoreline; and
WHEREAS, the City previously caused the City of San Mateo Joint Powers 
Financing Authority (the “JPFA”) to issue its City of San Mateo Joint Powers Financing 
Authority Revenue Bonds (South Bayfront Flood Control Project), Series 2011A in the 
aggregate initial principal amount of $5,745,000 (the “2011 Bonds”) pursuant to a Trust 
Agreement, dated as of February 1, 2011 (the “2011 Trust Agreement”), by and between 
the JPFA and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the “2011 
Trustee”), for the purpose of financing certain levee and flood control projects known as 
the “South Bayfront Flood Control Project; and
WHEREAS, the 2011 Bonds are payable from (i) installment payments made by 
the City to the JPFA (the “2011 Installment Payments”) under an Installment Payment 
Contract, dated as of February 1, 2011 (the “2011 Installment Payment Contract”), and (ii) 
4 of 22

--- page 5 ---
- 2 -
lease payments made by the City under a Facility Lease (South Bayfront Flood Control 
Project), dated as of February 1, 2011 (the “2011 Facility Lease”); and
WHEREAS, the 2011 Installment Payments are payable from benefit assessments 
that are levied and collected under the Benefit Assessment Act in the South Bayfront 
Levee and Flood Control Facilities Assessment District; and
WHEREAS, in order to take advantage of current bond market conditions, the City 
wishes to refinance the 2011 Installment Payment Contract and the 2011 Facility Lease, 
and to cause the advance refunding of the 2011 Bonds, and the outstanding 2011 Bonds 
are subject to redemption on any date on or after August 1, 2021, without premium; and
WHEREAS, for the purpose, among others, of creating a separate public entity 
that could provide assistance with the financing of public capital improvements to be 
owned and operated by the City, the City and the Estero Municipal Improvement District 
previously established the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority (the 
“Authority”) under the Joint Exercise of Powers Act (Government Code §6500 et seq.) and 
a Joint Exercise of Powers Agreement dated as of February 29, 2016 (the “Joint Powers 
Agreement”); and
WHEREAS, in order to assist the City with its financing program, and to provide 
funds for the payment of the Site Lease Payment described below, the Authority proposes 
to issue two series of bonds (the “2020 Bonds”) under Article 4 of Chapter 5, Division 7, 
Title 1 of the Government Code of the State of California, commencing with Section 6584 
of said Code (the “Bond Law”):
(a)
San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority Revenue Bonds, 
Series 2020A (City of San Mateo Street and Flood Control Projects) (the “2020A 
Bonds”); the 2020A Bonds will be issued to finance the Project, and
(b)
San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority Revenue Bonds, 
Series 2020B (City of San Mateo 2011A South Bayfront Refinancing) (Federally 
Taxable); the 2020B Bonds will be issued to refinance the 2011 Installment 
Payment Contract and the 2011 Facility Lease and advance refund the 2011 
Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the City has proposed to lease to the Authority certain real property 
and improvements (the “Leased Property”) under a Site Lease (the “Site Lease”), in 
consideration of the payment by the Authority of an upfront rental payment (the “Site Lease 
Payment”) that is sufficient to provide funds to (a) finance the Project and (b) refinance the 
2011 Installment Payment Contract and the 2011 Facility Lease, and refund the 2011 
Bonds; and
WHEREAS, under the Act and the Benefit Assessment Act (the “Benefit 
Assessment Act”), and in order to provide revenues equal to a portion of the debt service 
on the 2020A Bonds, the Authority and the City will enter into an installment payment 
contract (the “2020A Installment Payment Contract”) and the City will pledge all North 
Shoreview Assessment Revenues (as defined therein) to the City’s semiannual 
installment payments due thereunder (the “2020A Installment Payments”); and
5 of 22

--- page 6 ---
- 3 -
WHEREAS, under the Act, the Benefit Assessment Act, and Articles 10 and 11 of 
Chapter 3 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 (the “Refunding Law”), and in order to provide 
revenues which are sufficient to enable the Authority to pay debt service on the 2020B 
Bonds, the Authority and the City will enter into an installment payment contract (the 
“2020B Installment Payment Contract”) and the City will pledge all South Bayfront 
Assessment Revenues (as defined therein) to the City’s semiannual installment payments 
due thereunder (the “2020B Installment Payments”); and
WHEREAS, in order to secure the payments of principal of and interest on the 
2020 Bonds, the Authority proposes to lease the Leased Property back to the City under 
a Lease Agreement (the “Lease Agreement”), under which the City is obligated to pay 
semiannual lease payments (the “Lease Payments”) as rental for the Leased Property, 
and, pursuant to an Assignment Agreement (the “Assignment Agreement”), the Authority 
will assign substantially all of its rights under the Lease Agreement to The Bank of New 
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee for the 2020 Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the City will receive a credit against its obligation to pay the Lease 
Payments attributable to the 2020A Bonds in the amount of any 2020A Installment 
Payments paid by the City under the 2020A Installment Payment Contract; and
WHEREAS, the City will receive a credit against its obligation to pay the Lease 
Payments attributable to the 2020B Bonds in the amount of any 2020B Installment 
Payments paid by the City under the 2020B Installment Payment Contract; and
WHEREAS, in order to comply with Government Code Section 5852.1, certain 
information relating to the 2020 Bonds is set forth in Appendix A attached to this 
Resolution, and such information is hereby disclosed and made public; and
WHEREAS, as required by Section 6586.5 of the Joint Exercise of Powers Act, 
the City has caused publication of a notice of a public hearing on the Authority’s issuance 
of the 2020A Bonds to finance the Project once at least five days prior to the hearing in a 
newspaper of general circulation in the City; and  
WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing at which all interested persons 
were provided the opportunity to speak on the subject of financing the Project, and, 
following the hearing, found that issuance of the 2020A Bonds for the purpose of financing 
the Project will result in significant public benefits of the type described in Section 6586 of 
the Act, including, but not limited to, demonstrable savings in bond preparation, bond 
underwriting and bond issuance costs; and
WHEREAS, the Authority wishes at this time to approve all proceedings to which 
it is a party relating to the issuance and sale of the 2020 Bonds and assist the City in the 
financing of the Project;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Governing Body of the San Mateo-
Foster City Public Financing Authority as follows:
Section 1.  Recitals. The foregoing recitals are true and correct and the Authority 
hereby so finds and determines.
6 of 22

--- page 7 ---
- 4 -
Section 2.  Issuance of Bonds.  The Authority hereby authorizes the issuance of 
the 2020 Bonds under the Bond Law in the maximum principal amount of $54,000,000, 
for the purpose of providing funds to finance the Project, refinance the 2011 Installment 
Payment Contract and the 2011 Facility Lease, and refund the 2011 Bonds, provided that 
(a) the aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Bonds may not exceed $54,000,000, (b) 
the net interest cost of the 2020A Bonds may not exceed 3.75%, (c) the net interest cost 
of the 2020B Bonds may not exceed 3.35%, (d) the underwriter's discount (exclusive of 
any original issue discount) may not exceed 0.35% of the principal amount of the 2020 
Bonds, and (e) the net present value of debt service savings realized by the City as a 
result of the refunding of the 2011 Bonds will be equal to 3% or more of the outstanding 
principal amount of the 2011 Bonds.  The 2020 Bonds shall be issued under the Bond 
Law and the Indenture of Trust that is approved below.
Section 3.  Approval of Related Financing Agreements.  The Authority hereby 
approves each of the following agreements required for the issuance and sale of the 2020 
Bonds, in substantially the respective forms on file with the Secretary together with any 
changes therein or additions thereto deemed advisable by the Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, Executive Director, Treasurer-Auditor-Controller or General Counsel of the 
Authority, or an authorized representative thereof (each, an “Authorized Officer”), subject 
to approval as to form by the General Counsel; execution of the agreements by an 
Authorized Officer, acting alone, shall be conclusive evidence of the approval of any such 
changes or additions.  An Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed for and on 
behalf of the Authority to execute, and the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to 
attest, the final form of each such agreement, as follows:

Indenture of Trust, between the Authority and The Bank of New York 
Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the “Trustee”), setting forth the 
terms and provisions relating to the 2020 Bonds.

Site Lease, between the City as lessor and the Authority as lessee, 
under which the City leases the Leased Property to the Authority in 
consideration of the payment of an amount which will be applied by the 
Authority to finance the Project.

Lease Agreement, between the Authority as lessor and the City as 
lessee, under which the Authority leases the Leased Property back to 
the City and the City agrees to pay semiannual lease payments which 
are sufficient to provide revenues with which to pay principal of and 
interest on the 2020 Bonds when due.

Assignment Agreement, between the Authority and the Trustee, 
whereby the Authority assigns certain of its rights under the Lease 
Agreement to the Trustee for the benefit of the 2020 Bond owners.

2020A Installment Payment Contract between the Authority and the 
City, under which the City agrees to make semiannual installment 
payments equal to a portion of the principal of and interest on the 2020A 
Bonds when due.
7 of 22

--- page 8 ---
- 5 -

2020B Installment Payment Contract between the Authority and the 
City, under which the City agrees to make semiannual installment 
payments which are sufficient to provide revenues with which to pay 
principal of and interest on the 2020B Bonds when due.

Bond Purchase Agreement among the Authority, the City and Citigroup 
Global Markets Inc. (the “Underwriter”), in substantially the form on file 
with the City Clerk.
The Chairperson of the Authority (or a designee thereof) is hereby authorized and 
directed for and in the name and on behalf of the Authority to execute, and the Secretary 
of the Authority is hereby authorized and directed to attest and affix the seal of the 
Authority to, the final form of each of the foregoing agreements, if applicable.  The 
Governing Body hereby authorizes the delivery and performance of each of the foregoing 
agreements.
Section 4.  Official Statement.  The Authority hereby approves the preliminary 
Official Statement describing the 2020 Bonds in substantially the form on file with the 
Secretary.  An Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed to approve any 
changes in or additions to said preliminary Official Statement and to execute an 
appropriate certificate stating the Authorized Officer’s determination that the preliminary 
Official Statement (together with any changes therein or additions thereto) has been 
deemed final within the meaning of Rule 15c2-12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  
Distribution of the preliminary Official Statement by the underwriter is hereby approved.  
An Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed to approve any changes in or 
additions to a final form of said Official Statement, and the execution thereof by the 
Authorized Officer shall be conclusive evidence of approval of any such changes and 
additions.  The Authority hereby authorizes the distribution of the final Official Statement 
by the underwriter.  The final Official Statement shall be executed on behalf of the Authority 
by an Authorized Officer.
Section 5.  Official Actions.  The Chairperson of the Authority (the “Chair”) and 
the Vice Chairperson of the Authority (the “Vice Chair”) or their designees are each 
authorized and directed on behalf of the Authority to make any and all assignments, 
certificates, requisitions, agreements, notices, consents, instruments of conveyance and 
other documents, which they or any of them deem necessary or appropriate in order to 
consummate any of the transactions contemplated by the agreements and documents 
approved under this Resolution, including any agreements required to purchase a debt 
service insurance policy or a municipal bond insurance policy. An Authorized Officer may 
revise the identity of the Leased Property as necessary in order to accomplish the 
purposes of this Resolution.  Whenever in this resolution any officer of the Authority is 
authorized to execute or countersign any document or take any action, such execution, 
countersigning, or action may be taken on behalf of such officer by any person designated 
by such officer to act on his or her behalf if such officer is absent or unavailable.
Section 6. Approval of Professional Services.   The Authority hereby appoints 
the firm of Jones Hall, A Professional Law Corporation, as bond counsel and disclosure 
counsel to the Authority in connection with the issuance of the 2020 Bonds, and the 
General Counsel is authorized to execute an agreement with said firm in substantially the 
form of the agreement on file with the Secretary.
8 of 22

--- page 9 ---
- 6 -
The Authority hereby appoints the firms of William Euphrat Municipal Finance, Inc. 
and Kitahata & Company as municipal advisors to the Authority in connection with the 
issuance of the 2020 Bonds, and the Treasurer-Auditor-Controller is authorized to execute 
agreements with said firms in substantially the form of the agreement on file with the 
Secretary.
 Section 7. Effective Date.  This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its 
passage and adoption.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 6th day of February, 2020, by the following vote.
AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:
ABSTAIN:
ATTEST:
_____________________________
Patrice Olds, Secretary
_____________________________
______, Chairperson
9 of 22

--- page 10 ---
- 7 -
APPENDIX A
Government Code Section 5852.1 Disclosure
The following information consists of estimates that have been provided in 
good faith by the City’s Municipal Advisors, based on the Underwriter’s market 
rates from December 19, 2019 plus a cushion of 50 basis points (0.50%):
2020A Bonds
(A)  True Interest Cost of the 2020A Bonds: 3.29%
(B)  Finance Charge of the 2020A Bonds (Sum of all fees/charges paid to 
third parties): $441,130
(C)  Net Proceeds of 2020A Bonds to be Received (net of finance charges, 
reserves and capitalized interest, if any): $50,000,000
(D)  Total Payment Amount on the 2020A Bonds Through Maturity: 
$78,013,112
2020B Bonds
(A)  True Interest Cost of the 2020B Bonds: 3.09%
(B)  Finance Charge of the 2020B Bonds (Sum of all fees/charges paid to 
third parties): $35,770
(C)  Net Proceeds of the 2020B Bonds to be Received (net of finance 
charges, reserves and capitalized interest, if any): $3,419,230
(D)  Total Payment Amount on the 2020B Bonds Through Maturity: 
$4,071,191
The foregoing estimates constitute good faith estimates only. The principal amount of the 
2020 Bonds, the true interest cost of the 2020 Bonds, the finance charges thereof, the 
amount of proceeds received therefrom and total payment amount with respect thereto 
may differ from such good faith estimates due to (a) the actual date of the sale of the 2020 
Bonds being different than the date assumed for purposes of such estimates, (b) the actual 
principal amount of Bonds sold being different from the estimated amount used for 
purposes of such estimates, (c) the actual amortization of the 2020 Bonds being different 
than the amortization assumed for purposes of such estimates, (d) the actual market 
interest rates at the time of sale of the 2020 Bonds being different than those estimated 
for purposes of such estimates, (e) other market conditions, or (f) alterations in the City’s 
financing plan, or a combination of such factors. The actual date of sale of the 2020 Bonds 
and the actual principal amount of Bonds sold will be determined by the City based on the 
timing of the need for proceeds of the 2020 Bonds and other factors. The actual interest 
10 of 22

--- page 11 ---
- 8 -
rates borne by the 2020 Bonds will depend on market interest rates at the time of sale 
thereof. The actual amortization of the 2020 Bonds will also depend, in part, on market 
interest rates at the time of sale thereof. Market interest rates are affected by economic 
and other factors beyond the control of the City.
11 of 22

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 20-2349
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
January 21, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Street and Flood Control Improvements – Bond Sale
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority’s (the “Authority”) sale of revenue 
bonds (the “2020 Bonds”) in a maximum $54 million principal amount to provide financing for public improvements to be 
owned and operated by the City of San Mateo (the “City”) and to provide for the refinancing of outstanding bonds, 
approving related documents,  declaring the intention to reimburse expenditures from bond proceeds, and directing 
certain actions in connection with the sale of such bonds.
BACKGROUND:
The proposed financing will provide funds to finance two new projects, street reconstruction improvements Citywide and 
flood control improvements benefiting the North Shoreview neighborhood, and to refinance the City’s outstanding City of 
San Mateo Joint Powers Financing Authority Revenue Bonds (South Bayfront Flood Control Project), Series 2011A (the 
“2011 Bonds”) (collectively, the “Project”). The two new projects will be financed with the “2020A Bonds,” and the 
refinancing of the 2011 Bonds will be financed with the “2020B Bonds.”
Street Reconstruction
In response to the public and City Council priorities to reconstruct or rehabilitate failed streets, the City developed the 
Smooth Streets Program in 2013. The program is a multi-year endeavor to reconstruct a total of 22 miles that were 
identified as failed streets in 2013, with targeted completion by 2024. Public Works staff develops specific projects 
annually based on budgeted funds and prioritizes them based on criteria such as traffic volume and pedestrian corridor 
accessibility. Since 2013, 11 miles of the original 22 miles of failed streets have been reconstructed.
In November 2015, San Mateo voters approved Measure S, which extended through 2048 the City’s ¼ cent transactions 
and use tax that was set to expire in 2018, as an affirmation of support to provide a funding source for various 
infrastructure projects.  Revenues collected under Measure S are accounted for in the General Fund, and may be used for 
any legally permitted General Fund expenditure.  These revenues have been programmed for application to street 
reconstruction and certain flood control projects (the latter are described below).  A portion of the Measure S revenues 
will be applied directly to street reconstruction costs on a pay-as-you-go basis, and, because street CIP expenditures will 
need to be made before the bulk of the Measure S revenue is available, the City will leverage future Measure S revenues 
by selling bonds, and future Measure S revenues will be applied to debt service on these bonds.
Flood Control
The City maintains a system of levee and flood walls (the “Coyote Point Levee”) that protects the northeastern corner of 
the City known as the North Shoreview neighborhood against high tides, storm surges, and wave action from the San 
Francisco Bay and operates a series of pump stations to drain North Shoreview residual interior flooding during rain 
12 of 22

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
events.
In 2015, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) decertified the Coyote Point Levee. Decertification means 
that this levee no longer meets National Flood Insurance Program minimum standards for reducing the risks associated 
with a major flood event (a flood with a one percent chance of occurring in any given year). As a result, the area behind 
the Coyote Point Levee, which has approximately 2,800 structures, has been designated as a high-risk area, also known as 
a Special Flood Hazard Area. Flood insurance is required for structures with mortgages from federally regulated or insured 
lenders when a levee becomes decertified or is uncertified. Structures without flood insurance in Special Flood Hazard 
Areas are ineligible for any type of federal assistance in the event of flooding. Flood insurance for structures in Special 
Flood Hazard Areas is several times more expensive than for structures not in such areas.
Improvements necessary to recertify the Coyote Point Levee consist of replacing two pump stations with new structures, 
pumps, electrical equipment, and discharge piping to San Francisco Bay, and raising approximately 1,300 feet of the 
Coyote Point Levee 3 to 5 feet.  The total project cost is estimated at $25 million.  
In 2018, North Shoreview residents approved assessment levies to pay for a portion of the project (approximately $2.4 
million).  The City will pay for the balance of the project using the proceeds of lease revenue bonds secured by General 
Fund revenues.  Future Measure S revenues have been programmed to make the payments on bonds sold to finance these 
flood control projects.  The North Shoreview assessment levies will pay a portion of the debt service on the bonds used to 
finance flood control projects, and the remainder will be paid from the General Fund.
Refinancing of 2011 Bonds
In 2011, the City sold lease revenue bonds to finance improvements to a levee protecting the South Bayfront 
neighborhood.  Those improvements are paid for with assessment levies approved by South Bayfront property owners.  
Due to a general decline in interest rates, the 2011 Bonds can be refinanced with lower cost debt.  This will allow the City 
to save approximately 10% in debt service. 
Plan of Finance
The Project
California cities may not pledge their general fund revenues to repay debt obligations that extend 13 months beyond the 
end of a fiscal year unless such obligations have been approved by a 2/3rd vote of the electorate. However, because 
California courts have ruled that a lease is not a debt, cities may enter into multi-year leases secured by their general 
funds.  To finance the Project, the City will enter into a 30-year lease payable from its General Fund, and apply Measure S 
sales tax revenues to make the lease payments.
Generally, the project or projects being financed in a lease financing serve as the asset being leased.  However, because a 
city cannot legally be obligated to make lease payments until it has beneficial use of the asset being leased, using the 
Project as the leased asset for this financing would require that all interest due during the construction period for the 
Project be borrowed, increasing the size of the financing and the amount of interest paid.  Additionally, an assortment of 
financed assets comprising pump stations, levee improvements for North Shoreview and South Bayfront, and street 
reconstruction projects makes for a more complicated presentation to investors than does the leasing of a single, essential 
city asset.  
Consequently, the City’s municipal advisors have recommended that the City use its main library, which is equivalent in 
value to the cost of the Project, as the leased asset.  Using a lease-leaseback structure, the City will, pursuant to a site 
lease, lease the library to the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority (the “Authority”) for a sum sufficient to 
construct the Project, and the Authority will lease the library back to City pursuant to a facility lease over a 30-year period.  
Because the Authority does not have sufficient assets to make the site lease payment to the City, it will sell lease revenue 
bonds secured by the lease payments to be made by the City, and use the proceeds from the bond sale to make the site 
lease payment to the City, which the City will use to construct the Project.  The lease payments will mirror the debt service 
on the revenue bonds.
13 of 22

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
San Mateo - Foster City Public Financing Authority
The City previously used the City of San Mateo Joint Powers Public Authority for financings such as this.  However, that 
authority is a joint powers authority between the City and the City’s redevelopment agency, and the City’s bond counsel 
has determined that because the redevelopment agency has been dissolved and succeeded by the Successor Agency 
(which will dissolve when its final enforceable obligation has been satisfied), the existing joint powers authority cannot 
issue bonds that amortize beyond the longest maturity of the Successor Agency’s outstanding bonds, which is 2032. 
Because the 2020 Bond maturity extends beyond this date, the San Mateo – Foster City Public Financing Authority is being 
used in this financing. 
The table shown in Attachement 2 shows the estimated sources and uses of funds.
Refinancing
The 2011 Bonds were sold in the amount of $5,745,000, of which $3,795,000 remains outstanding.  By selling refunding 
bonds and using the proceeds to call the outstanding bonds on their first optional redemption date, annual debt service 
can be reduced by approximately 10% annually.  Net present value savings (“NPV Savings”), which is a savings metric that 
discounts all future year savings into a single present value savings number, is estimated at $278,274, or 7.33% of the par 
amount of bonds to be refinanced.  Best practices established by the Government Finance Officers Association and the 
City’s Debt Policy require an NPV Savings floor of 3% of the par amount of bonds to be refinanced.
REQUIRED APPROVALS
The resolution before the City Council tonight approves the Authority’s sale of revenue bonds provided that: (a) the 
aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Bonds may not exceed $54,000,000 (b) the net interest cost of the 2020A Bonds 
may not exceed 3.75%, (c) the net interest cost of the 2020B Bonds may not exceed 3.10%, (d) the underwriter's discount 
(exclusive of any original issue discount) may not exceed 0.35% of the principal amount of the 2020 Bonds, and (e) the net 
present value of debt service savings realized by the City as a result of the refunding of the 2011 Bonds will be equal to 3% 
or more of the outstanding principal amount of the 2011 Bonds.  The resolution further approves a site lease, a facility 
lease, two installment payment contracts, a bond purchase agreement, and a continuing disclosure certificate that 
obligates the City to make certain annual disclosures to investors, and approves the preliminary official statement 
describing the 2020 Bonds in substantially the form on file with the City Clerk, and the distribution of the final official 
statement by the underwriter.  The resolution further approves execution of an agreement with Jones Hall for bond 
counsel/disclosure counsel services and agreements with the firms of William Euphrat Municipal Finance, Inc. and Kitahata 
& Company as municipal advisors to the City in connection with the issuance of the 2020 Bonds.  Finally, the resolution 
identifies officers of the City who are authorized to execute any and all other such documents that are necessary for the 
sale of the 2020 Bonds.
Under applicable law, the City may approve the sale of the bonds only after holding a public hearing and making findings 
of significant public benefit from the Authority’s issuance of the bonds. 
RESPONSIBILITIES OF ELECTED OFFICIALS UNDER FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS 
The preliminary official statement has been reviewed and approved for transmittal to the City Council and the Authority by 
staff and its financing team. The preliminary official statement must include all facts that would be material to an investor 
in the 2020 Bonds. Material information is information that would have a substantial likelihood of actual significance in the 
deliberations of a reasonable investor in deciding whether to buy or sell the 2020 Bonds.  Members of the City Council and 
the Authority should review the preliminary official statement and may question staff and consultants to make sure 
members feel comfortable that it includes all material facts, and in particular, those portions that disclose information 
relating to the City.  
The security for the 2020 Bonds is described in the sections of the preliminary official statement entitled “SECURITY FOR 
THE 2020 BONDS”; information about the City and its finances is set forth in “CITY FINANCIAL INFORMATION,” “THE 
LEASED PROPERTY,” and “Appendix A”; the key risk factors associated with the 2020 Bonds are described in the section of 
14 of 22

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the preliminary official statement entitled “BOND OWNERS’ RISKS”; and certain limitations imposed by the California 
Constitution are described in “CONSTITUTIONAL AND STATUTORY LIMITATIONS ON TAXES AND APPROPRIATIONS.” 
Information about the assessment district established in the South Bayfront neighborhood to finance levee improvements 
is described in the section of the preliminary official statement entitled “THE CITY OF SAN MATEO SOUTH BAYFRONT 
LEVEE AND FLOOD CONTROL FACILITIES ASSESSMENT DISTRICT”.  Information about the assessment district established in 
the South Bayfront neighborhood to finance levee improvements is described in the section of the preliminary official 
statement entitled “THE CITY OF SAN MATEO SOUTH BAYFRONT LEVEE AND FLOOD CONTROL FACILITIES ASSESSMENT 
DISTRICT”.   Information about the assessment district established in the North Shoreview neighborhood to contribute to 
the improvements necessary to recertify the Coyote Point Levee are described in the section of the preliminary official 
statement entitled “THE CITY OF SAN MATEO NORTH SHOREVIEW LEVEE AND FLOOD CONTROL FACILITIES 
IMPROVEMENTS ASSESSMENT DISTRICT.” 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The financing consists of a new money portion, the 2020A Bonds, which will add a lease payment obligation to the General 
Fund that is new, and a refinancing portion, the 2020B Bonds, which will lower an existing lease obligation that the City 
incurred in connection with the 2011 Bonds.
New Money Portion
The sale of the 2020A Bonds will cause the City’s General Fund to assume annual lease payments that will be 
approximately $2.785 million annually.  These lease payments, which will extend through the end of fiscal year 2047-48, 
are not optional.  A portion of these lease payments will be paid from assessments levied in the North Shoreview 
Assessment District. Net General Fund payments are shown in the following table:
Fiscal Year
City Gross Lease Payment
(less North Shoreview Assessment Levy)
City Net Lease Payment
2021 – 2022
$2,785,000
$0.00
$2,785,000
2023 – 2042
$2,785,000
$197,200
$2,587,800
2043 – 2048
$2,785,000
$0.00
$2,785,000
The City will be under a legal obligation to make gross lease payment appropriations annually. The Measure S ¼ cent sales 
tax, forecast at $5.6 million in fiscal year 2019-20, is expected to be sufficient to provide the revenue necessary to make 
these payments in future years.  In the event of a recession, or a decline in retail sales activity caused by other factors, 
these lease payments, if not off-set by an increase in other General Fund revenues, will compete with discretionary 
General Fund expenditures, such as services and CIP expenditures, and may require a reduction in such competing 
expenditures.
Refinancing Portion
The City’s existing lease obligation in connection with the 2011 Bonds is approximately $500,000 annually, and is paid first 
from South Bayfront assessment levies, and then only to the extent these amounts are insufficient to pay annual debt 
service on the 2011 Bonds, from the City’s General Fund.  The South Bayfront assessment levies have never been 
insufficient and the City has never been required to make payments from its General Fund in connection with the 2011 
Bonds.  The 2020B Bonds are expected to have lower debt service than the 2011 Bonds and the benefits realized from the 
refinancing will accrue to the assessed properties in the South Bayshore Assessment District.  There will be no adverse 
financial impact to the City’s General Fund by virtue of the sale of the 2020B Bonds.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This resolution approving the sale of the 2020 Bonds by the San Mateo – Foster City Public Financing Authority is not a 
project subject to CEQA, because it is government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific 
project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
15 of 22

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Sources and Uses of Funds
Att 3 – Preliminary Official Statement
Att 4 – Summary of Principal Legal Documents
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
16 of 22

--- page 17 ---
<div><div>&nbsp;<div style="text-align: right;"><br /><br /><br /><span style="font-size:11pt;"><span sty

--- page 18 ---
<div><div>&nbsp;<div style="text-align: right;"><br /><br /><br /><span style="font-size:11pt;"><span sty

--- page 19 ---
<div><div>&nbsp;<div style="text-align: right;"><br /><br /><br /><span style="font-size:11pt;"><span sty

--- page 20 ---
<div><div>&nbsp;<div style="text-align: right;"><br /><br /><br /><span style="font-size:11pt;"><span sty

--- page 21 ---
<div><div>&nbsp;<div style="text-align: right;"><br /><br /><br /><span style="font-size:11pt;"><span sty

--- page 22 ---
<div><div>&nbsp;<div style="text-align: right;"><br /><br /><br /><span style="font-size:11pt;"><span sty