Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock.com
Town of Los Gatos CA
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Mon Jul 27 2026

Overview

The Town of Los Gatos uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising individual privacy. The Town of Los Gatos utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, the Town of Los Gatos utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

37

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

543,364

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

209

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

1,752

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Town of Los Gatos CA data.

Campbell CA PD
Foothill-DeAnza CA PD
Gilroy CA PD
Los Alto Hills CA PD
Los Altos CA PD
Milpitas CA PD
Morgan Hill CA PD
Palo Alto CA PD
San Jose - Evergreen Community College Campus PD CA
San Jose CA PD
San Jose State University CA
Santa Clara CA PD
Stanford University CA PD
Sunnyvale CA PD
West Valley Mission College Dist Campus (CA)
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Los Gatos Monte Sereno PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
More Info

ALPR POLICY

https://www.losgatosca.gov/DocumentCenter/View/23300/Automated-License-Plate-Reader-Policypdf

Provided by Flock Safety