source: packet.pdf
sha256: e4cbd1d63e67f429ae357d1469bebd344549b3d8b39c0ba8b23de191c52443d5
pages: 7
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission 
September 14, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20  Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Clifford Robbins, Chair 
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair
Adam Loraine
Kimiko Narita
Sigalle Michael
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: September 14, 2022
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 880 8758 6190      Passcode: 930104
The Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move to the next regular meeting.
 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting of August 10, 2022.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Green Fleet Informational Update
Receive information on the Council priority of converting City fleet vehicles to a Green Fleet by the year 2030.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
th
1 of 7

--- page 2 ---
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org  until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Public Work’s Office at (650) 522-7300 or publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting
will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 7

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6613
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 14, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission meeting of August 10, 2022.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the August 10, 2022 meeting
3 of 7

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
August 10, 2022 
7:00 PM 
 
City Hall Council Chamber 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Clifford Robbins, Chair  
Susan Rowinski, Vice Chair 
Adam Loraine 
Kimiko Narita 
 
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER – This meeting is being held pursuant to the Governor’s Executive Orders which suspend 
certain requirements of the Brown Act. 
 
This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) in which 
Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health 
emergency. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Present:  Chair Robbins, Commissioners Loraine and Narita.  Vice Chair Rowinski is absent and excused.  
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion made to approve the minutes of July 13, 2022.  Motion passed 3-0. 
Moved:   Narita Seconded: Loraine 
Ayes:       3 - Robbins, Narita, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT –  
Skye Nygaard spoke on the poor condition of the bike lanes, causing him to fall and break his arm. 
Sean Lacson commented on the lack of bike racks in the downtown particularly in front of storefronts.  
Suggested the San Mateo Municipal Code be adjusted to allow bikes to park in metered parking spaces by 
implementing a bike coral utilizing some metered parking spaces. 
  
 
NEW BUSINESS  
 
2. Bicycle and Pedestrian Projects Update 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner provided a presentation updating the Commission, acting 
as the City of San Mateo’s Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Committee, on bicycle and pedestrian projects. 
 
Commissioners asked questions of staff. 
4 of 7

--- page 5 ---
Public Comment.  Following members of the public spoke to the item: Richard Hedges, David Hunt, Syke 
Nygaard.  
 
No motion needed for this item, but commissioners asked for an update on the North Central survey; an update 
by year-end on 28th and 25th Avenue grade separation on Class 2 and Class 4 bike lanes; look at coordination 
with Belmont on extending the bike lane past Pacific Blvd. and suggested this topic be future agenda item; look 
at the east side of San Mateo as it is often neglected regarding bike projects.  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
• Director Mitch informed the Commission that Public Works will start the CIP program budget and will 
incorporate many of the commissioner’s comments. 
• Commissioner Loraine informed folks that the Silicon Valley Bike Coalition Bike Summit is August 18 
in Millbrae. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Adjourn:  8:25pm 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website  www.cityofsanmateo.org 
at least 72 hours preceding each Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of 
the agenda will be available for public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
5 of 7

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
Account Number: 
File ID: 22-6641
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
September 14, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Green Fleet Informational Update 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive information on the Council priority of converting City fleet vehicles to a Green Fleet by the year 2030. 
BACKGROUND:
The City currently has a total fleet of 189 vehicles valued at approximately $10 million. Currently, Public Works and Parks 
both use Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) vehicles (20 vehicles); electric vehicles are mostly associated with parking 
enforcement and small utility vehicles (14 vehicles); and hybrid (gasoline) vehicles are mostly for inspectors and used as 
pool cars (22 vehicles). As part of the Council’s strategic planning effort, they established a priority for Public Works to 
“Implement a Green Fleet by 2030”. Based on their direction, staff has begun developing a transition plan for the 
conversion to zero emission vehicle (ZEV) alternatives. 
Compressed Natural Gas Facility
In 2016, the City began using renewable natural gas. Built in 2016, the CNG facility was designed to treat biogas generated 
by the wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) to fuel a portion of the City’s vehicles. The CNG facility cost approximately 
$6.1 million to design and construct and received approximately $2.5 million in grant funding from the California Energy 
Commission. At the time of construction, use of CNG in City vehicles and the potential sale of CNG to third parties was 
considered very viable. While the City had previously retained a third-party seller and met with companies and agencies 
that manage large commercial vehicle fleets regarding the potential purchase of the City’s excess CNG, there have been no 
potential buyers to date. 
Of the City’s fleet, 68 vehicles were originally designated for conversion to CNG fuel as they were to be replaced with new 
vehicles. To date, the City replaced 20 petroleum-fueled vehicles with vehicles that utilize CNG fuel. On August 16, 2021, 
Council directed staff to begin the CNG decommissioning process and to focus on the electrification of the City’s fleet. Of 
the existing fleet, 126 vehicles will be replaced within the next five years and near-term investments in appropriate 
technologies will be necessary to meet the Council’s Green Fleet priority. 
Conversion to Fossil-Fuel-Free Fuels 
It may be that not all vehicles, particularly for very large vehicles and construction equipment such as backhoes, will have 
viable ZEV alternatives available in the 5-year time frame. However, the use of fossil-fuel-free (F3) liquid fuels that use 
renewable biomass as their fuel source has increased and could be considered for all City vehicles and equipment when 
commercially available. Currently, a number of cities, including Fremont and Berkeley, have transitioned to renewable 
diesel for use in their fleet without the need to replace fueling infrastructure or modify vehicle engines. Additionally, 
renewable diesel can be manufactured such that it is chemically identical to fossil fuel diesel, significantly reduces overall 
6 of 7

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
carbon emissions compared to fossil fuel diesel, and does not result in performance issues known to be caused by some 
biodiesels or diesel blends. The use of F3 liquid fuels could be a component of the City’s more sustainable green fleet 
efforts particularly for large vehicles and equipment that may not have viable ZEV alternatives. Additionally, F3 liquid fuels 
could be used as part of a transition to ZEVs by allowing continued use of renewable fuels pending commercial availability 
of ZEVs or to allow time for construction of charging infrastructure. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no impact to the budget associated with this agenda report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7303
7 of 7