source: packet.pdf
sha256: 0c36d6ad85bc4f8bf98952bc083d92d4cbf3d451436e02d54589d3960989b29b
pages: 250
ocr_pages: 2
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
May 2, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Eric Rodriguez
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: Monday, May 2, 2022 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Webinar ID: 817 7591 2961
Passcode: 094578
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Jewish American Heritage Month
2.
Professional Municipal Clerks Week
3.
San Mateo High Schools 4.0 Grade Point Average Graduate Recognition
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
4.
Ordinance Adoption – Military Equipment Policy
Adopt an Ordinance to establish a Military Equipment Policy in accordance with state law.
5.
Community Development Block Grant 2022-23 Annual Action Plan – Adoption
Adopt the 2022-23 Annual Action Plan for the Community Development Block Grant program.
1 of 250

--- page 2 ---
6.
Temporary Accounting Services – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Maze & Associates for temporary accounting services in the amount of $144,115 to
support implementation of the enterprise resource planning system and implementation of Governmental
Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 87, and authorize the Finance Director to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented.
7.
Indian Springs Park Restrooms Remodel – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to Newton
Construction, Inc. to remodel the restrooms at Indian Springs Park in the amount of $212,828.37; establish a
contingency reserve in the amount of $22,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in
substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
8.
City Hall Staff Restrooms Remodel – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to authorize a budget transfer of $410,000 and approve an alternative purchasing procedure
to award a construction contract to Angeles Contractor, Inc. to remodel the staff restrooms at City Hall in the
amount of $492,932.79; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $50,000; and authorize the Public
Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the
contingency amount.
9.
480 East 4th Avenue – Grant of Easements
Adopt a Resolution to grant four easements to Pacific Gas & Electric Company on the City-owned property at 480
East 4th Avenue in order to install and maintain the necessary infrastructure to provide electrical service to the
Kiku Crossing affordable housing project under construction at 480 East 4th Avenue and the public parking garage
under construction at 400 East 5th Avenue, and authorize the Mayor to execute the grant of easements in
substantially the form presented.
10.
COVID-19 Declaration of Emergency – Termination
Receive an update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm the decision to
allow the City’s declaration of emergency to lapse as of April 30, 2022.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
(continue)
2 of 250

--- page 3 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
REQUEST TO SPEAK DURING THE MEETING:
Zoom - Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest is
open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By Telephone - Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person - Complete a “Request to Speak” form available before the meeting or submit a request at the speaker kiosk in the Council Chamber.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
3 of 250

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5922-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
April 18, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – Military Equipment Policy
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to establish a Military Equipment Policy in accordance with state law.
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance Introduction date: April 18, 2022
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Dave Peruzzaro, Police Captain
dperuzzaro@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7684
4 of 250

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DRAFT ORDINANCE 
AN UNCODIFIED ORDINANCE REGARDING POLICE ACQUISITION AND USE OF MILITARY EQUIPMENT 
WHEREAS, on September 30, 2021, Governor Gavin Newsom signed into law Assembly Bill 481 (AB 481), 
relating to the use of military equipment by law enforcement agencies, and is codified at California Government 
Code sections 7070 through 7075; and 
 
WHEREAS, prior to taking certain actions relating to the funding, acquisition, or use of military 
equipment, as defined in Government Code section 7070, AB 481 requires the San Mateo Police Department to 
obtain City Council approval of an ordinance adopting a military equipment use policy at a regular meeting held 
pursuant to open meeting laws; and 
 
WHEREAS, AB 481 allows the City Council to approve the funding, acquisition, or use of military 
equipment within its jurisdiction only if it makes specified determinations; and 
 
WHEREAS, the proposed military equipment use policy is found within San Mateo Police Department 
(SMPD) Policy 709, attached hereto as Exhibit A; and 
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 7071(b), SMPD Policy 709 was published on 
the SMPD website on March 15, 2022, more than thirty days before presentation of the policy to the City 
Council on April 18, 2022; and  
 
WHEREAS, SMPD Policy 709 complies with Government Code section 7070(d), which sets forth the 
requirements of a military equipment use policy.   
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: 
Section 1. CEQA. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378, this 
action is not a project because adopting an ordinance to approve a military equipment use policy is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in any direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment.      
Section 2. Incorporation of Recitals.  The recitals set forth above are hereby incorporated into this ordinance as 
if fully set forth herein.  
Section 3. Findings and Determinations.  Based on the recitals set forth above, in addition to information 
provided to the City Council at the public meeting, the City Council finds and determines that: 
(a) The military equipment identified in SMPD Policy 709 is necessary because there are no reasonable 
alternatives that can achieve the same objectives of officer and civilian safety. 
(b) SMPD Policy 709 will safeguard the public’s welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties. 
Section 4. Approval of Military Equipment Use Policy.  SMPD Policy 709, attached hereto as Exhibit A and 
incorporated by reference, is hereby approved and adopted.   
5 of 250

--- page 6 ---
Section 5. Annual Review of Ordinance and Military Equipment Report.  The City Council will review this 
ordinance at least annually, and at that time vote on whether to renew the ordinance at a regular meeting.  An 
annual military equipment report shall also be submitted to the City Council after making the report publicly 
available on a City internet website and following community outreach, all in accordance with state law. 
Section 6. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined invalid 
or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect. 
Section 7. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter. 
Section 8. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A – SMPD Policy 709 
6 of 250

--- page 7 ---
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2022/03/13, All Rights Reserved. 
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department 
***DRAFT*** 
Military Equipment - 1 
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Military Equipment 
709.1 PURPOSE, SCOPE AND PHILOSOPHY 
This policy establishes guidelines for the acquisition, funding, use and reporting of "military 
equipment", as the term is defined in Government Code section 7070. This policy is provided 
to fulfill the obligations set forth in Assembly Bill No. 481 (2021) (AB 481). These obligations 
include but are not limited to seeking approval on specific items deemed to be military equipment 
and requirements related to compliance, annual reporting, cataloging, and complaints regarding 
these items. 
It is the policy of the San Mateo Police Department (Department) that there are legally enforceable 
safeguards, including transparency, oversight, and accountability measures in place to protect the 
public's welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties before military equipment is funded, acquired, 
or used. 
The acquisition of military equipment and its deployment in our communities may impact the 
public's safety and welfare. AB 481 has declared that the public has a right to know about any 
funding, acquisition, or use of military equipment by local government officials, as well as a right 
to participate in any government agency's decision to fund, acquire, or use such equipment. 
Decisions regarding whether and how military equipment is funded, acquired, or used should give 
strong consideration to the public's welfare, safety, civil rights, and civil liberties, and should be 
based on meaningful public input. 
709.1.1 DEFINITIONS 
Definitions related to this policy include (Government Code § 7070): 
Governing body – The City Council. 
Military equipment – Includes but is not limited to the following: 
•
Unmanned, remotely piloted, powered aerial or ground vehicles.
•
Mine-resistant ambush-protected (MRAP) vehicles or armored personnel carriers.
•
High mobility multipurpose wheeled vehicles (HMMWV), two-and-one-half-ton trucks,
five-ton trucks, or wheeled vehicles that have a breaching or entry apparatus attached.
•
Tracked armored vehicles that provide ballistic protection to their occupants.
•
Command and control vehicles that are either built or modified to facilitate the
operational control and direction of public safety units.
•
Weaponized aircraft, vessels, or vehicles of any kind.
•
Battering rams, slugs, and breaching apparatuses that are explosive in nature. This
does not include a handheld, one-person ram.
•
Firearms and ammunition of .50 caliber or greater, excluding standard-issue shotguns
and standard-issue shotgun ammunition.
•
Specialized firearms and ammunition of less than .50 caliber, including firearms and
accessories identified as assault weapons in Penal Code § 30510 and Penal Code §
30515, with the exception of standard-issue firearms.
Policy 
709 
DRAFT 
EXHIBIT A
7 of 250

--- page 8 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Military Equipment 
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2022/03/13, All Rights Reserved. 
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department 
***DRAFT*** 
Military Equipment - 2 
 
 
DRAFT 
 
 
• 
Any firearm or firearm accessory that is designed to launch explosive projectiles. 
• 
Noise-flash diversionary devices and explosive breaching tools. 
• 
Munitions containing tear gas or OC, excluding standard, service-issued handheld 
pepper spray. 
• 
TASER® Shockwave, microwave weapons, water cannons, and long-range acoustic 
devices (LRADs). 
• 
Kinetic energy weapons and munitions. 
• 
Any other equipment as determined by the governing body or a state agency to require 
additional oversight. 
 
709.2 POLICY 
It is the policy of the San Mateo Police Department that members of this Department comply with 
the provisions of Government Code § 7071 with respect to military equipment. 
 
709.3 MILITARY EQUIPMENT COORDINATOR 
The Chief of Police shall designate a member of this Department to act as the military equipment 
coordinator. The responsibilities of the military equipment coordinator include but are not limited to: 
(a) 
Acting as liaison to the governing body for matters related to the requirements of this 
policy. 
(b) 
Identifying Department equipment that qualifies as military equipment in the current 
possession of the Department, or the equipment the Department intends to acquire 
that requires approval by the governing body. 
(c) 
Conducting an inventory of all military equipment at least annually. 
(d) 
Collaborating with any allied agency that may use military equipment within the 
jurisdiction of San Mateo Police Department (Government Code § 7071). 
(e) 
Preparing for, scheduling, and coordinating the annual community engagement 
meeting to include: 
1. 
Publicizing the details of the meeting. 
2. 
Preparing for public questions regarding the Department's funding, acquisition, 
and use of military equipment. 
(f) 
Preparing the annual military equipment report for submission to the Chief of Police 
and ensuring that the report is made available on the Department website (Government 
Code § 7072). 
(g) 
Establishing the procedure for a person to register a complaint or concern, or how that 
person may submit a question about the use of a type of military equipment, and how 
the Department will respond in a timely manner. 
 
709.4 MILITARY EQUIPMENT INVENTORY 
The list of qualifying equipment for the Department is set forth in Attachment A.    
 
8 of 250

--- page 9 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Military Equipment 
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2022/03/13, All Rights Reserved. 
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department 
***DRAFT*** 
Military Equipment - 3 
 
 
DRAFT 
709.5 APPROVAL 
The Chief of Police or the authorized designee shall obtain approval from the governing body by 
way of an ordinance adopting the military equipment policy. As part of the approval process, the 
Chief of Police or the authorized designee shall ensure the proposed military equipment policy 
is submitted to the governing body and is available on the department website at least 30 days 
prior to any public hearing or ordinance introduction concerning the military equipment at issue 
(Government Code § 7071). The military equipment policy must be approved by the governing 
body prior to engaging in any of the following (Government Code § 7071): 
(a) 
Requesting military equipment made available pursuant to 10 USC § 2576a. 
(b) 
Seeking funds for military equipment, including but not limited to applying for a grant, 
soliciting or accepting private, local, state, or federal funds, in-kind donations, or other 
donations or transfers. 
(c) 
Acquiring military equipment either permanently or temporarily, including by borrowing 
or leasing. 
(d) 
Collaborating with another law enforcement agency in the deployment or other use of 
military equipment within the jurisdiction of this department. 
(e) 
Using any new or existing military equipment for a purpose, in a manner, or by a person 
not previously approved by the governing body. 
(f) 
Soliciting or responding to a proposal for, or entering into an agreement with, any other 
person or entity to seek funds for, apply to receive, acquire, use, or collaborate in the 
use of military equipment. 
(g) 
Acquiring military equipment through any means not provided above. 
 
709.6 USE IN EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES 
 
In exigent circumstances and with the approval of the Chief of Police or his/her designee, the 
Police Department may acquire, borrow and/or use military equipment that is not included in this 
policy.  
 
If the Department acquires, borrows, and/or uses military equipment in exigent circumstances, in 
accordance with this section, it must take all of the following actions: 
• 
Provide written notice of that acquisition or use to the City Council within 30 days following 
the commencement of such exigent circumstance, unless such information is confidential or 
privileged under local, state or federal law. 
• 
If it is anticipated that the use will continue beyond the exigent circumstance, submit a 
proposed amended policy to the City Council within 90 days following the borrowing, 
acquisition and/or use, and receive approval, as applicable, from the City Council. 
• 
Include the military equipment in the Department’s next annual military equipment report. 
 
 
709.7 COORDINATION WITH OTHER JURISDICTIONS 
Absent exigent circumstances, military equipment should not be used by any other law 
enforcement agency or member in this jurisdiction unless the military equipment is approved for 
use in accordance with this policy. 
 
9 of 250

--- page 10 ---
San Mateo Police Department 
POLICIES 
Military Equipment 
Copyright Lexipol, LLC 2022/03/13, All Rights Reserved. 
Published with permission by San Mateo Police Department 
***DRAFT*** 
Military Equipment - 4 
 
 
DRAFT 
 
709.8 ANNUAL REPORT 
Upon approval of a military equipment policy, the Chief of Police or the authorized designee shall 
submit a military equipment report to the governing body for each type of military equipment 
approved within one year of approval, and annually thereafter for as long as the military equipment 
is available for use (Government Code § 7072). 
The Chief of Police or the authorized designee should also make each annual military equipment 
report publicly available on the department website for as long as the military equipment is 
available for use. The report shall include all information required by Government Code § 7072 
for the preceding calendar year for each type of military equipment in department inventory. 
 
709.9 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 
Within 30 days of submitting and publicly releasing the annual report, the Department shall hold 
at least one well-publicized and conveniently located community engagement meeting, at which 
the Department should discuss the report and respond to public questions regarding the funding, 
acquisition, or use of military equipment. 
 
10 of 250

--- page 11 ---
DRAFT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          ATTACHMENT A 
AB 481 (attachment list 709.4) 
MILITARY USE EQUIPMENT 
 
1. Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS):  An unmanned aircraft along with the associated equipment 
necessary to control it remotely. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost of current UAS:  
i. Matrice 210, cost $15,000, quantity 1: The DJI Matrice 210 is a powerful, 
industrial-grade fight platform with world-class agility and speed, two 
barometers, and redundant IMUs for maximum reliability, and new smart flight 
features that make capturing complex shots easy. The aircraft’s visual sensors 
enable enhanced hovering precision even when flying indoors or in 
environments where GNSS is unavailable. The drone’s new airframe design gives 
it an IP43 Ingress Protection Rating, in accordance with the global IEC 60529 
standard. The M210/M210 RTK’s mechanical design, along with quick release 
landing gears and mounted folding arms, makes it easy to transport, store, and 
prepare for flight.   
ii. Mavik II Enterprise, cost $5,000.00, quantity 1: The DJI Mavic II Enterprise 
features omnidirectional Vision Systems and Infrared Sensing Systems, and 
comes with a fully stabilized 3-axis gimbal camera with an equivalent 24-48 mm 
2x optical enterprise lens capable of shooting 4k videos and 12 megapixel 
photos that support up to 6x FHD zoom. DJI signature tecUologies such as 
Obstacle Sensing and the Advanced Pilot Assistance System, help you capture 
complex shots effortlessly. Additional features like the built in AirSense make 
you aware of your surrounding airspace, and password protection helps you 
maintain secure access to your aircraft and protect your data. The Mavic II 
Enterprise also has attachable modular accessories like the M2E spotlight, M2E 
Beacon, and M2E Speaker that are purpose built for various applications. The 
Mavic II Enterprise boasts a maximum flight speed of 44.7 mph and a maximum 
flight time of 31 minutes. 
iii. Sky Hero Loki MkII, quantity 2, cost $10,000.00 (for kit of 2): The Loki MkII is the 
most incredible indoor small tactical UAV system in the world, fully purpose 
built for close quarter, under roof, tactical scouting missions. Operating in 
congested and dark environment, its purpose is to place a microphone and a 
camera practically anywhere to collect critical life-saving intelligence of 
immediate threats ahead of a team. It enables reliable and rapid situational 
awareness for precise decision making, while maximizing the team’s safety. 
b. Purpose and authorized use:  UAS/Drones and robots may be utilized to enhance 
the Department’s mission of protecting lives and property when other means and 
resources are not available or are less effective.  Any use of SMPD drones will be for 
official law enforcement purposes, and in a manner that respects the privacy of our 
community.  Uses may include but are not limited to: search and rescue; suspect 
apprehension; crime scene documentation; tactical operations; scene security; hazard 
11 of 250

--- page 12 ---
DRAFT 
monitoring, identification and mitigation; response to emergency calls; crisis 
communications; legally authorized surveillance. 
c. Fiscal Impact:  Varies depending on replacement parts and re-occurring costs due to 
software associated with the drone program $1,000.00 to $2,500.00. 
d. Legal and procedural rules:  Any use of a UAS will be in strict accordance with 
constitutional and privacy rights and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations. 
The use of the UAS potentially involves privacy considerations. Absent a warrant or 
exigent circumstances, operators and observers shall adhere to FAA altitude regulations 
and shall not intentionally record or transmit images of any location where a person 
would have a reasonable expectation of privacy (e.g., residence, yard, enclosure). 
Operators and observers shall take reasonable precautions to avoid inadvertently 
recording or transmitting images of areas where there is a reasonable expectation of 
privacy. Reasonable precautions can include, for example, deactivating or turning 
imaging devices away from such areas or persons during UAS operations. 
e. Required training:  Prior to piloting any UAS/Drone staff members must secure an FAA 
Remote Pilot License and complete all training required by our FAA certificate or 
authorization. For the ground vehicles agency-authored orientation course with annual 
refresher training. 
f. Lifespan: All UAS equipment, 5-7 years. 
 
2. Robots: Unmanned remotely operated machines on the ground utilized to enhance the safety to 
the community and officers. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. Robotex Avatar II, cost $14,000, quantity 3: The AVATAR® enhances the 
capabilities of SWAT and tactical response teams by allowing them to quickly 
and safely inspect dangerous situations, there is no longer a need to send 
personnel in before you’ve had a chance to assess the situation. The AVATAR® 
saves lives by keeping first responders out of harm’s way, and it does so at a 
fraction of the price of other robots. 
ii. iRobot packbot 510, cost $0.00, quantity 1: The 510 PackBot is a multi-mission 
tactical mobile robot developed and manufactured by iRobot. It is designed for 
use by warfighters and first responders to carry out dangerous missions in high-
threat battlefield scenarios. The 510 PackBot can perform surveillance and 
reconnaissance, chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) detection, 
building and route clearance, explosive ordnance disposal (EOD), HazMat 
handling, improvised explosives device (IED) detection, checkpoint, and vehicle 
and personnel inspections. It can be easily configured based on the operators’ 
mission needs. 
iii. Recon robotics recon scout, cost $0.00, quantity 1: The Throwbot® 2 (TB2) robot 
is a throwable micro-robot platform that enables operators to obtain 
instantaneous video and audio reconnaissance within indoor or outdoor 
environments. Designed to withstand repeated drops of up to 30 feet (9 m) 
onto concrete, the Throwbot® 2 robot can be thrown into hazardous situations 
to allow operators to quickly make informed decisions when seconds count. This 
12 of 250

--- page 13 ---
DRAFT 
micro-robot is designed to be able to crawl over a variety of terrain, 
clearing obstacles up to 2″ (5 cm) tall. Conversion kits are available which can 
increase the ability of the Throwbot® 2 robot to cross obstacles up to 4″ (10 cm) 
tall or to carry and tow a combined 4 lbs (1.8 kg) of payloads using integrated 
mount points or a Picatinny Rail accessory. 
b. Purpose and authorized use:  To be used to remotely gain visual/audio intelligence, 
deliver equipment, open doors, and clear buildings ahead of a search team.  Officers 
who have been trained may deploy any of the robots.  Any use of SMPD robots will be 
for official law enforcement purposes, and in a manner that respects the privacy of our 
community.  Uses may include but are not limited to: search and rescue; suspect 
apprehension; tactical operations; scene security; hazard monitoring, identification and 
mitigation; response to emergency calls; crisis communications; legally authorized 
surveillance. 
c. Fiscal Impact:  Varies depending on replacement parts and repairs. 
d. Legal and procedural rules:  Any use of SMPD robots will be for official law enforcement 
purposes, and in a manner that respects the privacy of our community. 
e. Required training:  Officers utilizing the robots will have received training from SMPD 
SWAT members prior to deployment of the robots.  
f. Lifespan: All robots and associated equipment, 8-10 years. 
3. Armored Vehicles: Commercially produced wheeled armored personnel vehicle utilized for law 
enforcement purposes. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. International Armor Group Sentinel, cost $0.00, quantity 1: The all new IAG 
Sentinel ARV is an armored rescue vehicle re-designed specifically for tactical 
response teams, with added interior space and overall functionality in the event 
of a rapid deployment. Standard vehicle armoring is available in NIJ III/CEN B6, 
.50 cal and NIJ IV/CEN B7 that is rated to withstand multiple impacts from armor 
piercing 7.62x51mm rifle ammunition. The armoring system on the Sentinel 
Armored Rescue Vehicle protects the entire cabin with blast protection 
underneath the vehicle. The engine bay and fuel tank are also armored to 
prevent the vehicle from being disabled from ballistic threats or shrapnel. High 
payload wheels and tire package features an integrated run-flat and bead lock 
system to prevent the tires from dismounting from the wheel, as well as enables 
the vehicle to continue operating in the event of tire punctures. The vehicle can 
be outfitted with a large variety of equipment such as hydraulic ram, gas 
insertion equipment, 360-degree surveillance system, thermal and night vision 
capability, LRAD, ATF approved storage and much more. The interior layout can 
be completely customized to suit the specific mission requirements/application 
and allows for loading of a standard medical stretcher in emergency rescue 
situations. The dual rear doors are designed to lock into place at both 45° and 
90° while built-in steps provide access to the no-slip roof. The oversized rear 
step and platform ensure ease of entry and exit while also providing plenty of 
space for operators to utilize the outside of the vehicle for rapid deployment. 
b. Purpose and authorized uses:  To provide for the safe transport, security, and rescue of 
agency personnel and citizens in high-risk incidents.  Any use of the armored rescue 
13 of 250

--- page 14 ---
DRAFT 
vehicle will be for official law enforcement purposes and will fall 
under Lexipol SOP 501. 
c. Fiscal Impact: Purchased on a grant, $1500.00 annual maintenance. 
d. Legal and procedural rules:  Use shall be in accordance with California State law 
regarding the operation of motor vehicles.  
e. Required training:  Agency-authored orientation course; annual refresher. 
f. Lifespan: 12-15 years depending on use 
 
4. Command and control vehicles:  A mobile command post that provides shelter, access to Police 
Department computer systems and information during a critical incident and other planned 
events. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. Braun Northwest mobile command vehicle, cost $0.00, quantity 1:  The MCV is 
build on a Ford F550 chassis and can be utilized for SWAT/CNT and other critical 
incidents, pre-planned large events, searching for missing persons, natural 
disasters, and community events. Effective, reliable communication is critical in 
an emergency or crisis situation. To meet this important need, Braun Northwest 
custom-builds are durable, functional command/communication units.  
ii. Ford motor vehicle F53 motorhome command post, cost $100,000.00, quantity 
1:  The F53 command vehicle can be utilized for SWAT/CNT and other critical 
incidents, preplanned large events, searching for missing persons, natural 
disasters, and community events. This vehicle can also be used as a mobile 
office that provides shelter, access to the Police Department computer systems, 
and restroom facilities on extended events. 
b. Purpose and authorized uses:  To serve as a mobile command post during any incident 
that requires command and control beyond a static dispatch center.  Any use of the 
MCV vehicle will be for official law enforcement purposes, pre-planned events, or 
training exercises. 
c. Fiscal impact: Purchased on a grant; $5,000.00 annual maintenance. 
d. Legal and procedural rules: Use shall be in accordance with California State law 
regarding the operation of motor vehicles. 
e. Required training:  Agency-authored orientation course; annual refresher. 
f. Lifespan: 12-15 years depending on use 
 
 
5. Rifles:  A shoulder fired rifle capable of firing a projectile accurately at over 100 yards.   
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities and purchase cost: 
i. Daniel Defense DDM4 V7, cost $2,000.00 each, quantity 36: The AR15 style 
firearm features M-LOK attachment technology with the Daniel Defense 15.0 
rail. Built around a cold hammer forged, 16-inch barrel, the V7 has a DD 
improved flash suppressor to reduce flash signature. The mid-length gas system 
provides smooth and reliable cycling under any condition and reduces both 
perceived recoil and wear on moving parts. With the M-LOK attachment points 
that run along 7 positions and an uninterrupted 1913 Picatinny rail on top, the 
V7 has plenty of room for the sights, optics, and accessories the user may 
require.  The independently ambidextrous GRIP-N-RIP charging handle 
accommodates left- and right-handed shooters.  This rifle also comes with the 
ergonomic Daniel Defense Buttstock and Pistol Grip. 
14 of 250

--- page 15 ---
DRAFT 
ii. Daniel Defense personal defense weapon (PDW) 300 Blk, cost 
$2,000.00 each, quantity 14: The AR15 style firearm features M-LOK attachment 
technology with the Daniel Defense MFR rail. Built around a Cold Hammer 
Forged, 7.5-inch barrel, the PDW has a Daniel Defense improved flash 
suppressor to reduce flash signature. The mid-length gas system provides 
smooth and reliable cycling under any condition and reduces both perceived 
recoil and wear on moving parts. With the M-LOK attachment points that run 
along 7 positions and an uninterrupted 1913 Picatinny rail on top, the PDW has 
plenty of room for the sights, optics, and accessories the user may require.  The 
independently ambidextrous GRIP-N-RIP charging handle accommodates left- 
and right-handed shooters.  This rifle also comes with the ergonomic Daniel 
Defense Buttstock and pistol grip. 
iii. Whindham weaponry AR15, cost $1,800.00, quantity 14: Windham AR15: 
Caliber: .223 Rem. / 5.56mm Semi-Automatic, Gas Impingement System Safety: 
Manual Lever with Indicator Markings on Both Sides of Receiver, Receiver 
Material: Forged 7075 T6 Aircraft Aluminum with Aluminum Trigger Guard, 
Receiver Finish: Hardcoat Black Anodize Finish, Bolt Material: Carpenter 158 
Steel, Barrel: 11.5” Heavy Profile, Chrome Lined with A2 Flash Suppressor, Barrel 
Material: 4150 Chrome Moly Vanadium 11595E Steel w. M4 Feed Ramps, 
Rifling: 1 in 7” – Right Hand Twist, Stock: 6 Position Telescoping Stock with W-W 
Logo, Forend: 10″ Midwest Industries Combat Rail One Piece Free Float 
Handguard, M-LOK™ Compatible,  Pistol Grip: A2 Black Plastic Grip, Rear Sight: 
None: Mil Std 1913 Rail Ready for Accessory Sights/Optics, Front Sight: None: 
Mil Std 1913 Rail Ready for Accessory Front Sights, Weight / Length: 6.0 lbs. 
(without magazine) / 32“(28.25” with Telestock collapsed),Packaging: Hard 
Plastic Gun Case & Operators Manual 
iv. Georgia Precision AR10, cost $2,500.00 each, quantity 3: GAP 10 308: Upper and 
lower receiver, precision manufactured for us from 7075 Billet by Seekins 
Precision, Bartlein Stainless 5r rifled barrel to match your projectile and caliber. 
(standards: 11.25 for 308, 8 for 6.5mm, 7.7 for 6mm), Gas tube: Mid-length for 
16.5"-18", Rifle-length for 19"-22" Geissele SSA-E 2-stage trigger standard. 
Optional: Trigger Tech Adaptable AR Primary Trigger. SP3R V3 Rail, 15" MLOK 
accessory attachment points, Seekins DNA charging Handle / Optional Upgrade: 
Badger Ambidextrous gen 3 SLR Sentry 8 (.875") adjustable gas block installed 
Standard finish is a matte black hard coat anodization on handguard and 
receivers, barrel cerakoted black. Ambidextrous bolt release. 
v. SPEER GOLD DOT .223 CALIBER 62 GRAIN RIFLE ROUND, cost: $260 per case of 
500, quantity: 400 cases. Remington ammunition made by Speer is reloadable, 
features nickel plated brass cases and Boxer primers, and this is a non-corrosive 
round. The Gold Dot LE ammunition goes through a process of joining the jacket 
and core one molecule at a time, thanks to this Speer eradicates the potential 
for the leading cause of bullet failure (jacket/core separation). This process will 
guarantee extraordinary weight retention through barriers as strong as auto-
glass. In addition to its remarkable strength, Gold Dot rifle ammunition asserts 
remarkable accuracy. With exact tolerances and unparalleled bullet uniformity 
of jacket thickness. 
vi. FEDERAL 9MM LUGER GRAIN HST DUTY AMMUNITION, cost: $9600, quantity: 
8000 rounds. This 9mm ammo load features nickel plated brass casings and 
15 of 250

--- page 16 ---
DRAFT 
non-corrosive primers. A specially designed hollow-point tip will not 
plug while passing through a variety of barriers and this bullet holds its jacket in 
the toughest conditions HST is engineered to provide 100% weight retention 
through most barriers 
vii. Hornady 300, blackout 110 grain GMX, cost $25,000.00, quantity 12,000 rounds. 
The 300 Blackout TAP® offers excellent barrier performance from 6.75 - 16" 
barreled rifles. The monolithic copper alloy bullet design fouls less than pure 
copper bullets while maintaining accuracy and consistent terminal performance. 
The 300 Blackout TAP® is the absolute optimum choice for patrol rifles in 300 
Blackout. 
viii. Hornady 308, 168 grain AMAX, quantity 1,000 rounds, cost $2,000.00: The 168 
gr. A-MAX® bullet is a traditional match grade bullet with the performance 
advantages of a polymer tip. This bullet demonstrates an increase in 
penetration and retained weight over the 155 gr. A-MAX® bullet. Standard 
barrier performance is exemplary, and this load demonstrates controlled and 
impressive soft tissue expansion without over penetration. The Hornady® 168 
gr. A-MAX® TAP Precision® offers industry leading all-around performance for 
law enforcement precision marksmen providing the ability to stop a threat. 
b. Purpose and authorized uses:  To be used as precision weapons to address a threat with 
more precision and/or greater distances than a handgun, if present and feasible.  The 
use and deployment of the rifle falls under Lexipol policy 312 and 408.  Only Officers 
who have attended the POST certified patrol rifle course may deploy the rifle. 
c. Fiscal impact:  Annual maintenance is $25.00 per rifle.  Total ammunition budget is 
$50,000 per year.  
d. Legal and procedural rules: Use is established under Lexipol policy 312 and 408. It is the 
policy of SMPD to utilize rifles only for official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant 
to State and Federal law regarding the use of force. 
e. Required training: Quarterly qualifications and ongoing training 
f. Lifespan: Rifles 10-20 years depending on use. No expiration on ammunition. 
 
6. Distraction Devices:  A distraction device is ideal for distracting dangerous suspects during 
assaults, hostage rescue, room entry or other high-risk arrest situations. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. COMBINED TACTIACL SYSTEMS, 7290-2 FLASH-BANG, cost: $52, quantity: 20. A 
non-bursting, non-fragmenting multi-bang device that produces a thunderous 
bang with an intense bright light. Ideal for distracting dangerous suspects during 
assaults, hostage rescue, room entry or other high-risk arrest situations. 
ii. COMBINED TACTICAL SYSTEMS, 7290M MINI FLASH-BANG, cost: $38, quantity: 
20. The 7290M Flash-Bang exhibits all the same attributes of its larger 
counterpart but in a smaller and lighter package. Weighing in at just 15 ounces 
the new 7290M is approximately 30% lighter than the 7290 but still has the 
same 175db output of the 7290 and produces 6-8 million candelas of light. 
b. Purpose and authorized uses: Distraction devices are ideal for distracting dangerous 
suspects to allow tactical teams to complete a dangerous mission or task.  Distraction 
devices shall only be used by officers trained in the proper use and deployment. 
Diversionary Devices shall only be used: 
i. By officers who have been trained in their proper use. 
ii. In hostage and barricaded subject situations. 
16 of 250

--- page 17 ---
DRAFT 
iii. In high risk warrant (search/arrest) services where there may be 
extreme hazards to officers. 
iv. During other high-risk situations where their use would enhance officer safety. 
v. During training exercises. 
c. Fiscal Impact:  Varies depending on use. 
d. Legal and procedural rules:  It is the policy of the SMPD to utilize diversion devices only 
for official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant to State and Federal law regarding 
the use of force. 
e. Required training: Officers must attend training hosted by certified POST instructors 
which is followed by an annual refresher training.  
f. Lifespan:  Upon use.   
 
7. Explosive breaching tools:  Tools that are used to conduct a positive breach using kinetic 
energy. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. DETONATING CORD, cost: $1 per foot, quantity: 0 feet. The detonating cord is a 
thin, flexible plastic tube usually filled with pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN, 
pentrite). With the PETN exploding at a rate of approximately 6400 m/s, any 
common length of detonation cord appears to explode instantaneously. It is a 
high-speed fuse which explodes, rather than burns, and is suitable for 
detonating high explosives. 
ii. BLASTING CAP, cost: $12, quantity: 0. A blasting cap is a small sensitive primary 
explosive device generally used to detonate a larger, more powerful, and less 
sensitive secondary explosive such as TNT, dynamite, or plastic explosive. 
Blasting caps come in a variety of types, including non-electric caps, electric 
caps, and fuse caps. 
iii. REMINGTON 870 BREACHING SHOTGUN, cost: $500, quantity: 5. This weapon 
allows for breachers to safely utilize shotgun breaching rounds to destroy 
deadbolts, locks, and hinges. The stand-off that is attached to the end of the 
barrel allows for positive placement of the gun into the correct position and 
vents gases to prevent overpressure. This weapon can also defeat windows and 
sliding glass doors with a flash bang round. A less lethal 2.4-inch 12-gauge 
shotgun round firing a ballistic fiber bag filled with 40 grams of lead shot at a 
velocity of 270-290 feet per second (FPS). 
iv. DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY FRANGILBE BREACHING ROUND, cost: $5 per round, 
quantity: 50. The round is fired from a breaching shotgun and is used to destroy 
deadbolts, locks and hinges. 
b. Purpose and authorized use:  To safely create a positive breach and enter a structure.  
Kinetic and shotgun breaching may only occur after authorization by the Incident 
Commander or SWAT Commander in the field, and during training exercises. 
c. Fiscal Impact:  Cost varies depending on use in the field.  Annual maintenance and 
training costs are approximately $1,500.00 to $5,000.00. 
d. Training:  All Officers who use kinetic and shotgun breaching tools shall attend a 40-
hour explosive breaching course and will train regularly.   
e. Legal and procedural rules:  Breaching tools will only be used for official law 
enforcement purposes and will be pursuant to State and Federal law. 
f. Lifespan: Detonating cord 10 years, blasting caps 10 years, breaching shotguns 20 years, 
breaching shotgun rounds 5 years.  
17 of 250

--- page 18 ---
DRAFT 
 
8. Chemical agents:  Canisters that contain OC and CS chemical agents that are released when 
deployed.  
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. CTS 7290M, cost $35.00 each, quantity 20: The CTS 7290M Mini Flash-Bang is 
the newest generation in the evolution of the Flash-Bang. Our Model 7290M 
Flash-Bang exhibits all the same attributes of its larger counterpart but in a 
smaller and lighter package. Weighing in at just 15 ounces the new 7290M is 
approximately 30% lighter than the 7290 but still has the same 175db output of 
the 7290 and produces 6-8 million candelas of light.  The patented design of the 
7290M, incorporates a porting system that eliminates movement of the body at 
detonation even if the top or bottom of the device should be in contact with a 
hard surface. In addition, internal adjustments have greatly reduced smoke 
output. 
ii. CTS 5230, cost $30.00 each, quantity 20: 5230 JL large diameter burning 
grenade designed to discharge a high volume of smoke and chemical agent 
rapidly through multiple emission ports. The smoke composition is formulated 
to burn rapidly decreasing the possibility that the grenade can be picked up and 
thrown back at crowd management officers.  
iii. CTS 6330 and 6340, cost $25.00 each, quantity 12: 6330 / 6340 A unique 
grenade delivering an invisible vapor and rendering an intense respiratory 
effect.  Provides best results when used indoors and requires no personal 
decontamination. 
iv. CTS 5230B, cost $35.00 each, quantity 10: 5230B Pyrotechnic grenade designed 
for indoor use delivering a maximum amount of irritant smoke throughout 
multiple rooms with minimal risk of fire. 
v. CTS 8210, cost $25.00 each, quantity 10: 8210 Small diameter pyrotechnic 
irritant smoke grenade for outdoor use to disperse crowds. Emits smoke for up 
to 30 seconds and is small enough to carry in a pocket. Can be hand thrown or 
launched.  
b. Purpose and authorized use: To limit the escalation of conflict where employment of 
lethal force is prohibited or undesirable.  Situations for use may include, but are not 
limited to: 
i. Self-destructive, dangerous, and/or combative individuals 
ii. Barricaded suspects 
iii. Riot/crowd control and civil unrest incidents 
iv. Training exercises 
c. Fiscal impact:  Varies depending on use in the field, $1,500.00 to $2,500.00 per year. 
d. Training:  Sworn members utilizing chemical agent canisters are certified by POST less 
lethal and chemical agents’ instructors. 
e. Legal and procedural rules: It is the policy of the SMPD to utilize chemical agents only 
for official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant to State and Federal law, including 
those regarding the use of force. 
f. Lifespan: 5 years from date of manufacture.  
 
9. Long Range Acoustical Device (LRAD):  
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
18 of 250

--- page 19 ---
DRAFT 
i. Long Range Acoustical Device (LRAD), cost $0.00 (purchased on a 
grant), quantity 1: is a high intensity directional acoustical array for long range, 
crystal clear hailing, notification, and an unmistakable warning tone. The LRAD is 
primarily used as a communication device. 
b. Purpose and authorized uses: To be used to issue dispersal orders during crowd and 
riot control situations or to address the public in the event of civil emergencies, natural 
disasters, evacuations, and police incidents (e.g., missing persons, perimeters for 
wanted suspects/ K9 deployments, etc.). The LRAD may also be used to issue a warning 
tone. The LRAD shall only be used by officers trained in its deployment and used in a 
manner consistent with department policy and training. 
c. Fiscal impact: None 
d. Training: All operators receive training prior to operating any of the LRAD’s in the field. 
e. Legal and procedural rules: It is the policy of the SMPD to utilize the LRAD only for 
official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant to State and Federal law. 
f. Lifespan: 20 years. 
 
10. CTS Launching cup: Has the capability to launch an OC or CS cannister from a 12 gauge less 
lethal shotgun. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. COMBINED SYSTEMS LC5 40MM LAUNCHING CUP, cost: $302, quantity: 2. The 
LC5 Launching Cups are designed for the 5200 series grenades. The cups can be 
attached to virtually any 12gauge shotgun and the munition launched with our 
model 2600 launching cartridge. 
b. Purpose and authorized use:  To limit the escalation of conflict where employment of 
lethal force is prohibited or undesirable.  Situations for use may include, but are not 
limited to: 
i. Self-destructive, dangerous, and/or combative individuals 
ii. Barricaded suspects 
iii. Riot/crowd control and civil unrest incidents 
iv. Training exercises 
c. Fiscal impact:  None 
d. Training:  Sworn members utilizing chemical agent canisters are certified by POST less 
lethal and chemical agents’ instructors. 
e. Legal and procedural rules: It is the policy of the SMPD to utilize chemical agents only 
for official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant to State and Federal law, including 
those regarding the use of force. 
f. Lifespan: 20 years. 
 
11. 40mm Launchers and rounds:  40MM Launchers are utilized by department personnel as a less 
lethal tool to launch less lethal impact and OC/CS rounds. 
a. Manufacturer description, quantity, capabilities, and purchase cost: 
i. PENN ARMS 40mm launcher, cost $1,000.00, quantity: 26.  The 40mm launcher 
is a single shot launcher that has set the standard for less-lethal launchers 
worldwide for over 20 years. The patented designs are small, lightweight, and 
operationally versatile.  
ii. 4330 – Liquid CS filled projectile penetrates intermediate barriers and delivers 
irritant agents into an adjacent room. 
19 of 250

--- page 20 ---
DRAFT 
iii. 4431 – CS powder filled projectile penetrates intermediate barriers 
and delivers irritant agents into an adjacent room. 
iv. 4340 – Liquid OC filled projectile penetrates intermediate barriers and delivers 
irritant agents into an adjacent room. 
v. Less lethal foam-tipped projectile capable of travelling 250 fps to a maximum 
range of 100 feet.   
b. Purpose and authorized uses:  To limit the escalation of conflict where employment of 
lethal force is prohibited or undesirable.  Situations for use may include, but are not 
limited to: 
i. Self-destructive, dangerous, and/or combative individuals 
ii. Barricaded suspects 
iii. Riot/crowd control and civil unrest incidents 
iv. Training exercises 
c. Fiscal impact:  Annual costs can range from $5,000 to $20,000 depending on use. 
d. Training:  Sworn members utilizing chemical agent canisters are certified by POST less 
lethal and chemical agents’ instructors. 
e. Legal and procedural rules: It is the policy of the SMPD to utilize chemical agents only 
for official law enforcement purposes, and pursuant to State and Federal law, including 
those regarding the use of force. 
f. Lifespan: Penn arms 40mm launcher 20 years, 40mm foam tipped projectile until used, 
all chemical agent rounds 5 years from date of manufacture.  
 
20 of 250

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-6064
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 02, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Community Development Block Grant 2022-23 Annual Action Plan – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt the 2022-23 Annual Action Plan for the Community Development Block Grant program.
BACKGROUND:
The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program provides flexible funding for community development projects 
and programs to assist individuals and families from extremely low- to moderate-income households as defined by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The City receives an entitlement grant based on a national 
formula and has participated in this program since 1977.
The City also received an entitlement amount of HOME Investment Partnerships Program (HOME) funds from 1994 to 
2015 that were used to assist housing programs and projects for very low-income households. In 2016, the City joined a 
consortium with the County of San Mateo and the City of South San Francisco to pool HOME funds to provide more 
efficiency and timeliness in expending those funds. The City continues to collect loan payments from loans made prior to 
2015 and must re- program those funds into HOME-eligible projects.
2022-23 Annual Action Plan
The Annual Action Plan outlines the City’s budget for the coming program year with details of the programs and projects 
that will be undertaken to address the needs identified in the Consolidated Plan. The City has not yet received an award 
letter from HUD detailing the exact amount of funding it will receive for the coming year. However, the CDBG grant is 
estimated to be $732,000 for the 2022-23 program year using past year averages. The following budget was developed 
based upon this estimate and will be adjusted as needed when the exact amount is known. The remaining funds for the 
budget will come from program income and prior year resources. The annual plan also includes programs to address 
affordable housing and other community needs. The major CDBG activities are:
• Administration – a maximum of 20% of the CDBG grant is eligible for administrative costs. The fair housing grant of 
$25,000 is included in the administration budget.
• Community Funding – the cap for public services is 15% of the grant and prior year program income. The Community 
Relations Commission (CRC) identified nine non-profit agencies for provision of public services to meet priority needs at 
the previous CRC meeting, providing the agencies with two-year agreements.
• Economic Development – the City will fund one grant for $25,000 for microenterprises assistance.
• Minor Home Repair – the City will fund three providers for home repair, energy upgrades, and accessibility 
modifications to eligible households.
21 of 250

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
• Street Improvement Project – the Department of Public Works will manage this project, prioritizing sidewalk repair 
and pedestrian improvements located in the CDBG Priority Target Area consisting of the North Shoreview and North 
Central neighborhoods.
• Public Facilities – the City will fund one grant of $100,000 for renovations to the San Mateo Free Clinic.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The following CDBG budget is in the 2022-23 Annual Action Plan, as well as incorporated into the City budget. 
CDBG Revenues
CDBG
CDBG Expenditures
CDBG
Administration 
   
105,000 
Entitlement
732,000
Community Funding 
   
111,000 
Program Income
   
    8,000
Economic Development
  25,000
Minor Home Repair
   
105,000 
Capital Improvement Carryover
195,000
Street Improvement
   
600,000 
Public Facilities
100,000
Unprogrammed Carryover
190,000
Reserve
  77,000
TOTAL Revenues
~1,125,000
TOTAL Expenditures
   
1,123,000 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of this plan is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. In addition, per the Community Participation Plan, a public hearing and 
comment periods are required. Public notice of the draft Annual Plan was published in the San Mateo Daily Journal on 
March 25, 2022, starting the 30-day public comment period through April 25, 2022. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 2022-2023 Annual Action Plan
STAFF CONTACT
Nicky Vu, Housing Specialist
nvu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7229
22 of 250

--- page 23 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
1
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2022-2023
ANNUAL ACTION PLAN
PREPARED BY:
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
NEIGHBORHOOD IMPROVEMENT & HOUSING DIVISION
330 W. 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7220
23 of 250

--- page 24 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
2
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Executive Summary 
AP-05 Executive Summary - 91.200(c), 91.220(b)
1.
Introduction
The Annual Action Plan (Annual Plan) is required of the City of San Mateo by the U.S. Department of 
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in order for the City to receive federal Community Development 
Block Grant (CDBG) funds. The City's Annual Plan for fiscal year 2022-23 is the fifth year of the multi-year 
2018-22 Consolidated Plan. The Annual Plan outlines needs and develops strategies to address priority 
needs of low- and moderate-income populations in San Mateo.
2.
Summarize the objectives and outcomes identified in the Plan  
This could be a restatement of items or a table listed elsewhere in the plan or a reference to 
another location. It may also contain any essential items from the housing and homeless needs 
assessment, the housing market analysis or the strategic plan.
The City's Consolidated Plan identifies the following needs and has developed goals and activities that 
further HUD's program goals. 
Need: Affordable Housing
Goal: Increase, maintain, and improve the supply of affordable housing for low- and moderate-income 
families and individuals. 
Activities: The City will use CDBG and local funds for development of housing, acquisition and/or 
rehabilitation of housing, minor home repairs, weatherization, and accessibility modifications. 
Additionally, the City will continue to administer its existing below-market rate housing rental and 
ownership units. 
Need: Public Facilities Improvements
Goal: Preserve and improve public facilities that serve a high percentage of low- and moderate-income 
families as well as those with special needs. 
Activities: The City will use CDBG funds, when feasible, to make accessibility modification to public 
facilities and to provide funds for rehabilitation of facilities with urgent needs. 
Need: Public Services
24 of 250

--- page 25 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
3
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal: Provide services to improve quality of life for low- and moderate-income families, individuals, 
businesses including those at risk of becoming homeless and special needs populations.
Activities: The City will allocate the 15% of its entitlement and 15% of the previous year's program 
income, as allowed by CDBG regulation, for the Community Funding Program. Additional funding will 
also be provided to assist microbusinesses. These funds will be granted to non-profit agencies for 
provision of public services to individuals and businesses. 
Need: Community Development
Goal: Infrastructure improvements in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood.
Activities: The City will use CDBG funds for capital projects such as replacement of failed streets and 
sidewalks, accessible curb ramps, traffic calming, as well as pedestrian and bikeways improvements. The 
Department of Public Works will manage projects. 
Need: Affirmatively Further Fair Housing
Goal: Address fair housing issues and contributing factors as determined by the Assessment of Fair 
Housing, which was approved by HUD in January 2018.
Activities: The City will allocate funds from administration for provision of fair housing services to be 
granted to a non-profit partner. The City will also work towards the goals from the Assessment of Fair 
Housing. 
3.
Evaluation of past performance 
This is an evaluation of past performance that helped lead the grantee to choose its goals or 
projects.
The City recognizes the ongoing needs of the San Mateo community and continues to fund core service 
needs. All of the Community Funding programs have met or exceeded their goals for service, showing an 
ongoing need for the services they are providing the community. The cost of housing continues to be 
extremely high in San Mateo and as a result many of the activities focus on services related to housing.
The City's Minor Home Repair programs have been slower to meet their goals, but all three 
organizations and City staff agree that there is a great need for their services. One concern from the sub 
grantees is that the rising costs of doing projects paired with new logistical difficulties from the COVID-
19 pandemic have made it difficult to find and complete enough home repairs to stay on track of 
meeting goals.
25 of 250

--- page 26 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
4
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
For the 2022-2023 fiscal year the City will allocate an additional $600,000 for Street and Sidewalk 
Reconstruction activities. The City’s Public Works Department adopted a Bike Master Plan, which 
identifies priorities that will be carried out with the CDBG Street and Sidewalk Reconstruction Projects in 
the CDBG Target Areas. Based on input from both community members, City Council and Public Works 
department, there is demonstrated ongoing need for this type of funding.
4.
Summary of Citizen Participation Process and consultation process 
Summary from citizen participation section of plan.
A Community Needs Assessment meeting was held in September 2021 by the Community Resources 
Commission (CRC), Outreach included notices to both social service providers and resident, inclusion in 
City E-newsletter, and posted on the City website. Feedback from this meeting was used to guide the 
development of the draft 2022-2023 Annual Action Plan, which will be presented to the CRC once again 
in April 2022 for review and later to the City Council in May 2022 for final approval.
5.
Summary of public comments
This could be a brief narrative summary or reference an attached document from the Citizen 
Participation section of the Con Plan.
Public comments were received by the City prior and during a public meeting for the Community 
Relations Commission (CRC). The meeting was held virtually on September 29, 2021. Comments from 
citizen stakeholders described their concerns over rising cost of renting, lack of affordable housing, and 
need for more pedestrian infrastructure. At the April 6, 2022 meeting of the CRC, if the 2022-2023 
Annual Action Plan receives a positive response from the commission, the draft plan will be 
recommended for approval. The plan will be tentatively adopted on May 2, 2022 during a City Council 
meeting if staff does not receive any outstanding public comments.
6.
Summary of comments or views not accepted and the reasons for not accepting them
There weren't any community comments or views that were not considered for this year.
7.
Summary
The City's 2022-23 Annual Plan has been developed based on the City's four service priority needs as 
well as the goals set forth in the 2018-22 Consolidated Plan. 
26 of 250

--- page 27 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
5
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
PR-05 Lead & Responsible Agencies - 91.200(b)
1.
Agency/entity responsible for preparing/administering the Consolidated Plan
The following are the agencies/entities responsible for preparing the Consolidated Plan and those responsible for administration of 
each grant program and funding source.
Agency Role
Name
Department/Agency
CDBG Administrator
SAN MATEO
Community Development Department
HOME Administrator
SAN MATEO
Community Development Department
Table 1 – Responsible Agencies
Narrative
Consolidated Plan Public Contact Information
City of San Mateo 
Neighborhood Improvement and Housing Division
330 W. 20th Ave
San Mateo, CA 94403
Phone: (650) 522-7223
Email: housing@cityofsanmateo.org
27 of 250

--- page 28 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
6
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
AP-10 Consultation - 91.100, 91.200(b), 91.215(l)
1.
Introduction
The City consulted with many different stakeholders in developing this Annual Action Plan. Meetings 
were held internally with the Department of Public Works regarding prioritizing street reconstruction 
and pedestrian safety projects. Non-profit partners from the area were invited to Community Needs 
Assessment workshops and Community Relations Commission meetings. 
Provide a concise summary of the jurisdiction’s activities to enhance coordination between 
public and assisted housing providers and private and governmental health, mental health 
and service agencies (91.215(l)).
Throughout the Annual Action Plan period, the City will maintain its relationships with organizations that 
serve the public, especially low- and moderate-income residents. Efforts will include:

Working with other entitlement jurisdictions in San Mateo County to coordinate and streamline 
the CDBG process

Working with non-profit social service providers, the County of San Mateo, other entitlement 
jurisdictions, and other stakeholders to coordinate the provision of needed services in the 
community

Providing funds through the community funding program to non-profit service providers 

Working with non-profit organizations, private developers, and the County of San Mateo to 
build and maintain affordable housing
Working with the Continuum of Care, Homeless Outreach Team, and non-profit service providers to 
coordinate homeless services.
Describe coordination with the Continuum of Care and efforts to address the needs of 
homeless persons (particularly chronically homeless individuals and families, families with 
children, veterans, and unaccompanied youth) and persons at risk of homelessness.
The Continuum of Care (COC) guides the implementation of the county's housing and service system to 
meet the needs of homeless individuals and families. The City of San Mateo participates in COC 
meetings and monitors decision-making to better understand latest trends in homeless outreach. The 
COC coordinates the following activities:

System planning (identifying gaps, developing strategies to fill gaps, responding to emerging 
best practices, etc.)

Setting funding priorities for Emergency Solutions Grant and COC funds

Assessing system performance and making system redesigns as needed
28 of 250

--- page 29 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
7
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)

Coordinating with other planning entities such as the Community Action Agency

Undertakes a wide range of efforts to meet the needs of homeless individuals and families
Chronically Homeless: COC has created a multi-disciplinary, bilingual, Homeless Outreach Team (HOT) to 
conduct intensive outreach and engagement with unsheltered and chronically homeless individuals and 
families located throughout the County, with specialized HOT teams in the cities of San Mateo, Redwood 
City, South San Francisco, Half Moon Bay, Pacifica, and East Palo Alto.
Families with children: To reduce the number of unsheltered families, the COC has developed a rapid re-
housing program. The San Mateo County Human Services Agency has provided funding for a motel 
voucher program to assist families with children that are waiting to access shelter.
Veterans: Needs include housing and assistance for homeless, employment and education services, and 
improved and increased liaisons with the Veterans Benefits Administration. 
Youth: Currently, HUD COC funds are provided to the San Mateo County Mental Health Association to 
operate its Support and Advocacy for Young Adults in Transition Program, which provides case 
management and housing search/stabilization services to homeless youth. The San Mateo County 
Housing Authority administers the Family Unification Program vouchers. 
Describe consultation with the Continuum(s) of Care that serves the jurisdiction’s area in 
determining how to allocate ESG funds, develop performance standards for and evaluate 
outcomes of projects and activities assisted by ESG funds, and develop funding, policies and 
procedures for the operation and administration of HMIS
The City of San Mateo does not receive Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG) funding, as the San Mateo 
County Department of Housing (DOH) is the sole recipient in the county. However, the City does 
participate in COC meetings as part of its ongoing responsibility in receiving HUD funding. DOH 
coordinates closely with the COC in regards to the County's ESG, COC, and CDBG funding and is 
represented on the COC Steering Committee. DOH has also delegated responsibility for management of 
all ESG funds, plus the portion of the County CDBG funds used for homeless activities, to the COC Lead 
Agency, and the San Mateo County Human Services Agency (HSA). Management responsibilities include 
issuing requests for proposals for ESG funding, awarding contracts, gathering community input, data 
analysis, and contract monitoring. The COC Lead Agency is also the Homeless Management Information 
System (HMIS) Lead Agency and develops the policies and procedures for operation and administration 
of HMIS for ESG funded projects. 
2.
Agencies, groups, organizations and others who participated in the process and 
consultations
29 of 250

--- page 30 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
8
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Table 2 – Agencies, groups, organizations who participated
Agency/Group/Organization
City of San Mateo
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Agency - Managing Flood Prone Areas
Agency - Management of Public Land or Water Resources
Agency - Emergency Management
Other government - Local
Grantee Department
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Infrastructure
1
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
The Department of Public Works was consulted for prioritization of funds for 
community development projects. Pedestrian safety and street reconstruction 
are priorities in the neighborhood. City Council has asked PW to prioritize 
implementation of its bike master plan. The Public Works department is 
responsible for overseeing public land, water resources, and flood plain area 
management. The Fire Department coordinates the annual review of the City's 
local hazard mitigation plan.
Agency/Group/Organization
MID-PENNINSULA HOUSING
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Housing
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
2
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from Mid-Peninsula Housing spoke at the September 21, 2020 
Community Relations Commission special meeting about the progress on their 
upcoming affordable housing project, Kiku Crossing. They cited studies that have 
shown that the high housing costs have disproportionately affected people of 
color. Historically, resources have not been shared equally; and that affordable 
housing can and should be in San Mateo’s future
30 of 250

--- page 31 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
9
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Agency/Group/Organization
Housing Choices
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services-Persons with Disabilities
Services - Housing
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
3
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative and a client on spoke on behalf of Housing Choices at the 
September 29, 2021 Community Relations Commission special meeting. They 
reported that many persons living with developmental disabilities are forced to 
live with their parents due to a lack of available supportive housing. They asked 
the City address this need by incentivizing developers to include units for people 
with severe disabilities and granting additional points for housing or services in 
developments for people with developmental disabilities.  
Agency/Group/Organization
HIP Housing
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services - Housing
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
4
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from HIP Housing attended the Community Relations 
Commission special meeting on September 29, 2021 to provide input on housing 
needs within the community and to provide updated statistics on home sharing 
in the City of San Mateo. The Home Sharing program matches those in need of 
affordable housing with members of the community that have extra space and 
are willing to share. HIP Housing reported a lack of affordable housing and 
increased difficulties at finding available housing during the corona virus 
pandemic.
31 of 250

--- page 32 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
10
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Agency/Group/Organization
PROJECT SENTINEL
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services - Housing
Service-Fair Housing
Regional organization
Neighborhood Organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
5
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from Project Sentinel spoke at the February 16, 2022 
Community Relations Commission regular meeting about the increasing need for 
fair housing services and how the organization has overcome barriers from 
COVID. Project Sentinel investigates issues of fair housing on behalf of the City of 
San Mateo.
Agency/Group/Organization
Rebuilding Together Peninsula
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services - Housing
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing
6
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from Rebuilding Together Peninsula spoke at February 16, 2022 
Community Relations Commission regular meeting about the need for minor 
home repair services, particularly for seniors and those living with disabilities.
Agency/Group/Organization
Rape Trauma Services
7
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services-Victims
Services-Children
Regional organization
32 of 250

--- page 33 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
11
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Other Basic Human Needs
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from Rape Trauma Services spoke at the February 16, 2022 CRC 
meeting to speak about the importance of housing stability is to those who have 
experienced sexual abuse. Healing and ending the cycles of violence are tied by 
the emotional safety that stable housing brings. Most families they interacted 
with needed rehousing to create a healthy living environment.
Agency/Group/Organization
LEGAL AID SOCIETY OF SAN MATEO COUNTY
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services - Housing
Service-Fair Housing
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
8
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from the Legal Aid Society of San Mateo spoke at the February 
16, 2022 Community Relations Commission regular meeting about the great 
difficulty low income residents face with rising rents and lack of income due to 
COVID. They continue to provide legal defense for unjustly evicted tenants 
throughout the pandemic despite growing challenges.
Agency/Group/Organization
CALLPrimrose
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Other Basic Human Needs
9
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from CALLPrimrose spoke at the February 16, 2022 CRC 
meeting to describe the dramatic rise of people in need of food assistance in San 
Mateo as loss of income is experienced. As the pandemic continues, they will 
operate their drop-in food pantry to all those who need assistance.
33 of 250

--- page 34 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
12
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Agency/Group/Organization
OMBUDSMAN SERVICES OF SAN MATEO COUNTY, INC.
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services-Elderly Persons
Service-Fair Housing
Regional organization
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
10
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from Ombudsman spoke at the February 16, 2022 Community 
Relations Commission special meeting. The representative reported a need for 
rental assistance for the elderly and provided an update on their program. They 
expressed concerns about the lack of affordable housing for seniors.
Agency/Group/Organization
St. James AME Zion Church
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services-Children
Regional organization
Services-Education
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Other Basic Human Needs
11
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from St. James spoke at the February 16, 2022 CRC meeting to 
report the need of low income children who lack proper school uniforms, 
supplies, and food to do well in school. They promoted their program, which 
seeks to provide these necessities to children in need.
Agency/Group/Organization
LifeMoves
12
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services-homeless
Regional organization
34 of 250

--- page 35 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
13
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Homeless Needs - Chronically homeless
Homeless Needs - Families with children
Homelessness Needs - Veterans
Homelessness Needs - Unaccompanied youth
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from LifeMoves spoke at the February 16, 2022 CRC meeting to 
report the interim housing and safe shelter programs have both served even 
more people in the past year due to growing housing instability from the 
pandemic. Funding is requested to continue housing case management for 
individuals experiencing homelessness.
Agency/Group/Organization
Samaritan House
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services - Housing
Services-homeless
Services-Health
Regional organization
Food, Clothing
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Housing Need Assessment
Other Basic Human Needs
13
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from Samaritan House described at the February 16, 2022 CRC 
meeting the exponentially increased demand of food, housing, and financial 
assistance to low/mod-income families due to the spread of COVID-19. They 
continue to be the CORE service agency of City of San Mateo in distributing 
general assistance to low income individuals and families experiencing hardship.
Agency/Group/Organization
RENAISSANCE ENTREPRENEURSHIP CENTER/START-UP
14
Agency/Group/Organization Type
Services-Employment
Regional organization
35 of 250

--- page 36 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
14
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
What section of the Plan was addressed by 
Consultation?
Economic Development
Briefly describe how the 
Agency/Group/Organization was consulted. What 
are the anticipated outcomes of the consultation or 
areas for improved coordination?
A representative from the Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center spoke at the 
February 16, 2022 Community Relations Commission regular meeting. The 
representative provided an update on their economic development program 
during the COVID-19 pandemic. New programs for business recovery, online 
training, and virtual marketplaces were being explored to adjust to working 
under shelter-in-place regulations.
Identify any Agency Types not consulted and provide rationale for not consulting
Despite outreach to an extensive stakeholder list, the agencies who provide the following services did not provide the City with consultation:

Services - Broadband Internet Service Providers

Services - Narrowing the Digital Divide

Services-Persons with HIV/AIDS

Services-Victims of Domestic Violence

Despite the lack of response, several of these needs are addressed by grants awarded to public service agencies in the community 
funding program.
Other local/regional/state/federal planning efforts considered when preparing the Plan
Name of Plan
Lead Organization
How do the goals of your Strategic Plan overlap with the goals of each plan?
Continuum of 
Care
San Mateo County 
Human Services 
Agency
The City has identified the core service needs of Basic Human Needs and Preserving or Providing 
Affordable Housing, both of which support homelessness programming.
36 of 250

--- page 37 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
15
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Name of Plan
Lead Organization
How do the goals of your Strategic Plan overlap with the goals of each plan?
Housing 
Element
City of San Mateo
The Housing Element documents the housing needs in San Mateo and includes the programs and 
policies to address its Four Goals: Maintain the quality and character of residential neighborhoods; 
Provide a diversity of housing types, responsive to household size, income and age needs; Ensure 
that all new housing is developed or remodeled in a sustainable manner; Encourage conservation 
improvements and measures to the existing housing stock.
Local Hazard 
Mitigation Plan
City of San Mateo - 
Fire
The plan focuses on the protection of the community from risks associated with disaster. Included 
are goals to protect community, housing stock, and economic resources. This plan overlaps with the 
Consolidated Plan as it identifies social vulnerability of low-income households to disasters.
Table 3 - Other local / regional / federal planning efforts
Narrative
37 of 250

--- page 38 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
16
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
AP-12 Participation - 91.401, 91.105, 91.200(c)
1.
Summary of citizen participation process/Efforts made to broaden citizen participation
Summarize citizen participation process and how it impacted goal-setting
The City of San Mateo followed guidelines specified in its Community Participation Plan, engaging as many stakeholders as possible in setting 
goals and prioritizing the community's needs for the Annual Action Plan. The following actions were taken:

September 13, 2021 - Sent notification via email to the listserv of community members signed up for Community Relations Commission 
events

September 13, 2021 – Sent meeting announcement slide to Channel 27 public service channel

September 13, 2021 - Email to non-profit partners, neighborhood associations, and other community stakeholders with event 
information with promotional flyer

September 17, 2021 - Newspaper ad with meeting notification

September 27, 2021- Posted on City Community Needs Assessment webpage

September 29, 2021 - Regular meeting of the Community Relations Commission for the Needs Assessment

February 16, 2022 – Regular meeting of the Community Relations Commission to score applicants for the CDBG Community Funding 
program

March 25, 2022 - City Web posting, and email notification of draft Annual Plan

March 25, 2022 - Email to non-profit partners, neighborhood associations, and other community stakeholders with event information, 
sent notification via email to the listserv of community members signed up for Community Relations Commission events

March 25, 2022 - Newspaper Ad

April 6, 2022 - Special meeting of Community Relations Commission, hearing for the draft Annual Plan

May 2, 2022 – Regular meeting of the City Council, approval of Annual Plan for submission to HUD
38 of 250

--- page 39 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
17
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Citizen Participation Outreach
Sort Or
der
Mode of Outr
each
Target of Outr
each
Summary of 
response/atten
dance
Summary of 
comments rec
eived
Summary of com
ments not 
accepted 
and reasons
URL (If applicable)
1
Promotional 
Flyer
Non-
targeted/broa
d community
September 13, 
2021. Shared 
promotional 
flyer in English 
and Spanish via 
email.
No comments 
were received.
n/a
 
2
Newspaper 
Ad
Non-
targeted/broa
d community
September 17, 
2021. Ad posted 
in Examiner to 
announce the 
Community 
Needs Hearing 
at the 
Community 
Relations 
Commission 
meeting. The ad 
also announced 
a public 
comment 
period.
No comments 
received.
n/a
 
39 of 250

--- page 40 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
18
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Sort Or
der
Mode of Outr
each
Target of Outr
each
Summary of 
response/atten
dance
Summary of 
comments rec
eived
Summary of com
ments not 
accepted 
and reasons
URL (If applicable)
3
Public 
Meeting
Non-
targeted/broa
d community
September 29, 
2021. Several 
members of the 
community, 
representatives 
from local non-
profits, and 
other 
stakeholders 
were in 
attendance for 
the special 
meeting of the 
Community 
Relations 
Commission. A 
summary of 
community 
member 
comments is 
included here, 
and comments 
from other 
stakeholders is 
included in the 
consultation 
A community 
member 
provided 
comments on 
the growing 
need for 
affordable 
housing as 
well as 
handicap 
spaces and 
loading zones 
to assist 
people with 
disabilities 
enter their 
homes in 
multifamily 
buildings.
n/a
 
40 of 250

--- page 41 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
19
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Sort Or
der
Mode of Outr
each
Target of Outr
each
Summary of 
response/atten
dance
Summary of 
comments rec
eived
Summary of com
ments not 
accepted 
and reasons
URL (If applicable)
section of the 
plan.
4
Internet 
Outreach
Non-
targeted/broa
d community
September 13, 
2021; March 25, 
2022. Emails 
sent out to the 
Community 
Relations 
Commission 
interest list 
announcing the 
meetings.
No comments 
received.
n/a
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3988
/Community-Conversations
5
Newspaper 
Ad
Non-
targeted/broa
d community
March 25, 2022. 
Ad posted in 
Examiner to 
announce the 
Draft Action 
Plan at the 
Community 
Relations 
Commission 
meeting. The ad 
also announced 
a public 
comment 
period.
No comments 
received.
n/a
 
41 of 250

--- page 42 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
20
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Sort Or
der
Mode of Outr
each
Target of Outr
each
Summary of 
response/atten
dance
Summary of 
comments rec
eived
Summary of com
ments not 
accepted 
and reasons
URL (If applicable)
6
Public 
Meeting
Non-
targeted/broa
d community
April 6, 2022. 
Special meeting 
of Community 
Relations 
Commission, 
hearing for the 
draft Annual 
Plan.
No comments 
received.
n/a
 
7
Public 
Meeting
Non-
targeted/broa
d community
May 2, 2022. 
Regular meeting 
of the City 
Council, 
approval of 
Annual Plan for 
submission to 
HUD.
No comments 
received
n/a
 
Table 4 – Citizen Participation Outreach
42 of 250

--- page 43 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
21
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Expected Resources
AP-15 Expected Resources - 91.420(b), 91.220(c)(1,2)
Introduction
Anticipated resources from CDBG include the 2022 entitlement grant of $732,000. Unless waived by HUD, CDBG pre-award costs for FY 2022-
2023 will not exceed 25% of the grant and will be used for the CDBG eligible activities as indicated above. Should the HUD grant be different 
than the estimate, the Community Funding program will be adjusted to remain below 15% of the grant plus program income, and the balance 
will go into the Street work Repairs project.
CDBG CONTINGENCY LANGUAGE
If the City receives more than what is estimated above:

15% of the extra funding will go towards Public Service Activities. Priority will be given to those agencies that can assist the most 
people/households with the extra funding.

20% of the extra funding will go towards administration costs.

The remaining balance will go towards the Street and Sidewalk Improvements Program.
If the City receives less what is estimated above:

Funding for Public Service Activities shall be reduced proportionately (unless agreed upon by the City and agency) in order to keep 
funding for public service agencies below 15% of the allocation plus 15% of prior year program income.

Funding for Administration shall be reduced so as to keep the funding under 20% of the allocation plus the estimated program income 
for FY21/22.

The remaining reduction will go to reduce the Street and Sidewalk Improvements Program.
43 of 250

--- page 44 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
22
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Anticipated Resources
Expected Amount Available Year 1
Program
Source 
of 
Funds
Uses of Funds
Annual 
Allocation: 
$
Program 
Income: 
$
Prior Year 
Resources: 
$
Total:
$
Expected 
Amount 
Available 
Remainder 
of ConPlan 
$
Narrative Description
CDBG
public - 
federal
Acquisition
Admin and 
Planning
Economic 
Development
Housing
Public 
Improvements
Public Services
732,000
8,000
197,000
937,000
937,000
Annual Allocation includes CDBG 2022 
entitlement of $732,000.
Other
public - 
federal
Housing
Other
0
0
0
0
0
City is now part of HOME Consortium 
with County of San Mateo and South San 
Francisco for new HOME grant funds. 
However City still occasionally receives 
program income in the form of loan 
repayments from projects funded with 
HOME funds prior to 2015.
Other
public - 
local
Housing
7,658,000
0
0
7,658,000
7,658,000
Local funds from commercial linkage fee, 
and annual 20% of tax increment 
(boomerang funds) and loan repayments 
from former Redevelopment Agency.
Table 5 - Expected Resources – Priority Table
Explain how federal funds will leverage those additional resources (private, state and local funds), including a description of how 
44 of 250

--- page 45 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
23
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
matching requirements will be satisfied
The City receives direct entitlement funds from Federal CDBG Program that are used to address identified needs. The City is also part of the San 
Mateo County HOME Consortium; HOME funds formerly granted directly to the City are now combined with the County of San Mateo and the 
City of South San Francisco in order to use the funds more efficiently. The City also receives HOME loan repayments from projects assisted with 
HOME funds provided prior to joining the consortium in 2015.
The City manages a varied portfolio of housing loans from several programs including Housing Rehabilitation and First Time Homebuyer 
programs as well as developer loans for new construction or acquisition/rehabilitation projects. Program income from this portfolio augments 
the CDBG and HOME funds as well as now defunct programs such as Redevelopment and former CalHOME owner rehab loan program. Loan 
repayments from loans funded with former Redevelopment funds are deposited in the Low Mod Housing Asset Fund to be used for future 
affordable housing programs.  The City also sets aside the equivalent of 20% of the property tax increment attributed to the former 
Redevelopment areas for housing, known as “boomerang funds”. The City collects subordination processing fees and fractional unit fees 
associated with its Below Market Rate Program in its City Housing Fund, which is typically used to assist regional housing initiatives that are 
outside of the San Mateo’s city limits. 
The City Council adopted a commercial linkage fee ordinance which became effective on 11/5/16. New commercial projects with square footage 
in excess of 5,000 square feet pay a fee to mitigate the impact of new jobs on local housing supply.
The City also receives an annual allocation of the State Permanent Local Housing Allocation (PHLA) as provided by the Building Homes and Jobs 
Act to increase the supply of affordable housing.  It is estimated that the City will receive approximately $531,000 for 2021.  There are a number 
of new State programs that City will watch and apply for as they become available including Local Early Action Planning grants to support 
planning efforts to increase the supply of housing, as well as the Local Housing Trust Fund Program.  The City also tracks and supports legislation 
that promotes and increases resources for affordable housing.
Section 8 funds are provided to San Mateo residents through the San Mateo County Housing Authority. McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 
Act funds are managed by the San Mateo County Human Services Agency as part of the Continuum of Care, in which San Mateo participates. The 
County of San Mateo also supports housing projects countywide with its HOME and CDBG funds which often are used to leverage City resources. 
The Housing Endowment and Regional Trust (HEART) of San Mateo County is a public/private partnership whose goal is to raise funds to create 
affordable housing opportunities in San Mateo County. 
45 of 250

--- page 46 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
24
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Low-Income Housing Tax Credits are offered through the State on a competitive process and with the dissolution of Redevelopment, 
applications for these funds are expected to become even more in demand and competitive. The State also has also set aside a portion of the 
Cap and Trade funds for housing located close to transit in its Affordable Housing Sustainable Communities program. The City will support 
developer applications for tax credits and other State Housing programs as they become available for appropriate and eligible projects.
If appropriate, describe publicly owned land or property located within the jurisdiction that may be used to address the needs 
identified in the plan
As a result of the dissolution of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo, a Long Range Property Management Plan has been drafted 
and approved by the State. City chose MidPen Housing for the development of two sites (approx. 2.4 acres total) located in downtown San 
Mateo that were owned by the former Redevelopment Agency. The sites will be developed with 225 affordable housing units and a public 
parking garage. The project obtained full planning approvals and an executed Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement in summer of 
2020. Construction is to commence throughout 2022.
Discussion
46 of 250

--- page 47 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
25
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Annual Goals and Objectives
AP-20 Annual Goals and Objectives - 91.420, 91.220(c)(3)&(e)
Goals Summary Information 
Sort 
Order
Goal Name
Start 
Year
End 
Year
Category
Geographic Area
Needs Addressed
Funding
Goal Outcome Indicator
1
Maintain and 
Preserve Existing 
Housing
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: 
$105,000
City sources: 
$500,000
Homeowner Housing 
Rehabilitated:  31 Household 
Housing Unit
2
Community Funding
2018
2022
Public Services
 
Public Services
CDBG: 
$111,000
Public service activities other 
than Low/Moderate Income 
Housing Benefit: 5,054 
Persons Assisted
Businesses assisted: 50 
Businesses Assisted
3
Street and Sidewalk 
Improvements
2018
2022
Non-Housing 
Community 
Development
CDBG Priority 
Neighborhood
Community 
Development
CDBG: 
$600,000
Public Facility or 
Infrastructure Activities other 
than Low/Moderate Income 
Housing Benefit: 20000 
Persons Assisted
4
AFH Goal: 
Affirmative 
Marketing of 
Housing
2018
2021
Affordable 
Housing
 
AFH Factor: Lack 
of Effective 
Marketing 
Strategies
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
47 of 250

--- page 48 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
26
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Sort 
Order
Goal Name
Start 
Year
End 
Year
Category
Geographic Area
Needs Addressed
Funding
Goal Outcome Indicator
5
AFH Goal: Facilitate 
Streamlined Review 
of Housing
2018
2019
Affordable 
Housing
 
AFH Factor: 
Development 
Approval 
Challenges
AFH Factor: Lack 
of Support for 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
6
AFH Goal: Support 
Education of 
Stakeholders
2018
2020
Affordable 
Housing
 
AFH Factor: Lack 
of Support for 
Affordable 
Housing
AFH Factor: 
Resistance to 
Density and 
Growth
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
7
AFH Goal: 
Strengthen Section 8 
Program
2018
2019
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
8
AFH Goal: Retention 
of Special Needs 
Housing
2018
2020
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
9
AFH Goal: Support 
Displaced 
Households
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
48 of 250

--- page 49 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
27
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Sort 
Order
Goal Name
Start 
Year
End 
Year
Category
Geographic Area
Needs Addressed
Funding
Goal Outcome Indicator
10
AFH Goal: 
Reasonable 
Accommodation 
Policy
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
AFH Factor: Lack 
of Zoning 
Flexibility
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
11
AFH Goal: Dev. of 
Accessory Dwelling 
Units
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
Other: 1 Other
12
First Time 
Homebuyer
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
City sources: 
$300,000
Direct Financial Assistance to 
Homebuyers: 6 Households 
Assisted
13
Affordable Housing
2018
2022
Affordable 
Housing
 
Affordable 
Housing
CDBG: $0
City sources: 
$6,850,000
Rental units constructed: 225 
Household Housing Unit
14
Public Facilities
2018
2022
Non-Housing 
Community 
Development
Community 
Development
CDBG: 
$100,000
Other: 1
Table 6 – Goals Summary
Goal Descriptions
49 of 250

--- page 50 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
28
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal Name
Maintain and Preserve Existing Housing
1
Goal 
Description
Provide funds to preserve, repair, and maintain existing housing stock. Emphasis on repairs that clear health and safety 
issues, retrofits to homes for more sustainability and energy efficiency, and make properties more accessible for 
individuals with special needs. 
This is the fifth year of the 2018 Consolidated Plan, and the outcome below will be a part of the larger goal represented 
in that plan. 
Goal Name
Community Funding
2
Goal 
Description
Provide grants to non-profit organizations for provision of public services to low- and moderate-income individuals, 
families, and businesses in San Mateo.
This is the fifth year of the 2018 Consolidated Plan, and the outcome below will be a part of the larger goal represented 
in that plan. 
Goal Name
Street and Sidewalk Improvements
3
Goal 
Description
Repair deteriorated streets, as well as provide accessibility and public safety improvements to streets and sidewalks for 
pedestrians, bicycles and autos in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood. 
This is the fifth year of the 2018 Consolidated Plan, and the outcome below will be a part of the larger goal represented 
in that plan. 
50 of 250

--- page 51 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
29
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Affirmative Marketing of Housing
4
Goal 
Description
Ensure affirmative marketing of City assisted affordable housing is targeted to all segments of the community. Develop 
marketing plan with developers of affordable housing projects during final phase of construction. Focus outreach to 
those least likely to apply based on racial make-up of neighborhood. Include Spanish marketing materials and ensure 
bilingual interpretation services are available. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Lack of awareness of effective affirmative marketing strategies
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

displacement due to rent increases for Spanish speaking and large households

Lack of accessible housing for persons with disabilities

Limited housing for families
Metrics and milestones: 

Develop Marketing Plan with developers of affordable housing projects during final phase of construction

Focus outreach to those least likely to apply based on racial make-up of neighborhood

Include Spanish marketing materials and ensure bilingual interpretation services are available
Timeframe for achievement: 
Marketing Plan for Kiku Crossing Housing project is updated to Summer of 2023.
51 of 250

--- page 52 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
30
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Facilitate Streamlined Review of Housing
5
Goal 
Description
Adopt additional development review practices that facilitate housing creation including streamlining reviews. This has 
been addressed by State legislation recently as well and will continue to be part of the conversation around affordable 
housing developments going forward. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Challenges with development approval process

Lack of support for affordable housing, creating barriers to approval 
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs
Metrics and milestones: 

Draft Guidelines for concurrent Planning Building Plan Check pilot program was implemented and not successful 
(2017-18)

New milestones to streamline reviews is to implement electronic plan check to speed up approval 
process.(completed 2020)

Utilize CEQA exemptions for affordable housing when appropriate.
Timeframe for achievement: 
Ongoing
52 of 250

--- page 53 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
31
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Support Education of Stakeholders
6
Goal 
Description
As part of a regional goal, support and engage in efforts to educate community stakeholders and residents about 
housing gaps and the effects of programs and policies on addressing those gaps. City’s Downtown Specific Plan, along 
with the 2023 Housing Element have been combined with the General Plan Update which makes the project more 
complex and requiring additional outreach.  The City has participated in countrywide Home For All programs to learn 
about best practices from others and has expanded the community outreach efforts, especially targeting those who 
typically do not attend public meetings. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Lack of support for housing

Suburban scale communities resistant to added density

Frustration with recent growth implications
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Lack of support for affordable housing
Metrics and milestones: 

Continue community engagement process for General Plan (including Housing Element) 
update                                                     

Participate in countywide Home For All "Learning Network" to share best practices (completed 2019)
Timeframe for achievement: 
General Plan adoption target is revised to 2023
53 of 250

--- page 54 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
32
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Strengthen Section 8 Program
7
Goal 
Description
As part of the regional goal, strengthen utilization of the Section 8 program. Explore a multi-family rehabilitation and 
accessibility improvement program to provide an incentive for landlords to remain in the Housing Choice Voucher 
program and those willing to offer naturally occurring affordable rental housing. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Loss of affordable housing

Lack of affordable housing supply

High housing costs
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

Displacement due to rent increases for Spanish speaking and large households

Lack of accessible housing for persons with disabilities

Limited housing for families
Metrics and milestones: 

Collaborate with County Housing Authority staff to review current practices and potential options.

Explore Section 8 non discrimination policy was resolved by State legislation SB 329 passed October 2019.
Timeframe for achievement: 
Ongoing
54 of 250

--- page 55 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
33
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Retention of Special Needs Housing
8
Goal 
Description
Assist with the retention of special needs housing that is at risk of expiring affordability requirements. This includes 
outreach and negotiation of developments that are currently reserved for individuals with special needs, as well as 
continuing efforts to assist in new developments. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Loss of affordable housing

Displacement of residents

Lack of accessible housing
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

Lack of support for special needs housing
Metrics and milestones: 

Outreach and negotiate with Mateo Lodge for affordability extensions for Humboldt House (9 units)(completed 
2021)
Timeframe for achievement: 
Ongoing
55 of 250

--- page 56 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
34
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Support Displaced Households
9
Goal 
Description
As part of the regional goal, continue funding and support for outreach services for homeowners and renters at risk of 
being displaced and/or facing fair housing challenges. Provide grants to sub-recipients under the administration cap in 
CDBG for provision of fair housing services. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Loss of affordable housing

Lack of affordable housing supply

High housing costs
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

Displacement due to rent increases for Spanish speaking and large households

Limited housing for families
Metrics and milestones: 

Annual Fair Housing activity goals: investigate 23 cases, provide consultations to 45 individuals, public 
education/outreach to 100 individuals.

Annual legal assistance to renters: 125 individuals
Timeframe for achievement: 
Annual Goal completed each year by June 30
56 of 250

--- page 57 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
35
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Reasonable Accommodation Policy
10
Goal 
Description
Continue implementation of City Reasonable Accommodation Policy to allow for relaxation of City zoning codes on 
residential properties used by persons with disabilities. Review requests for Reasonable Accommodation as they are 
submitted. 
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Lack of flexibility in zoning code
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

Lack of accessible housing for persons with disabilities
Metrics and milestones: 

Review requests for Reasonable Accommodations as they are submitted
Timeframe for achievement: 
Ongoing
57 of 250

--- page 58 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
36
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal Name
AFH Goal: Dev. of Accessory Dwelling Units
11
Goal 
Description
As part of the regional goal, encourage development of Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU) and Junior Accessory Dwelling 
Units (JADU) to increase lower cost housing in the community. This includes collaboration with 21 Elements in outreach 
and education on the development of ADU/JADU. City revised its ADU ordinance and adopted lower flat fees in 2017, 
2018 and 2019. Further modifications of the ordinance are underway to provide additional streamlining.
Contributing factors to be addressed:

Loss of affordable housing

Lack of affordable housing supply

High housing costs
Fair housing issues/impediments: 

Disproportionate housing needs

Segregation increases

Decline in access to opportunity (depending on ADU locations)
Metrics and milestones: 

Amend City ADU Ordinance to further streamline development of units.
Timeframe for achievement: 
Ongoing
Goal Name
First Time Homebuyer
12
Goal 
Description
Ensure continued affordability for low income homebuyers in the City's First Time Homebuyer program for the purchase 
of resales of price restricted units at Gateway Commons and Meadow Court or other City assisted units citywide.
58 of 250

--- page 59 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
37
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goal Name
Affordable Housing
13
Goal 
Description
Provide funding for new construction, acquisition and/or rehabilitation of affordable units through City financial 
assistance and the inclusionary Below Market Rate program.
Goal Name
Public Facilities
14
Goal 
Description
Provide funds for repairs and health/safety measures to be completed at buildings used by non-profit agencies as well as 
city facilities for provision of public services. 
59 of 250

--- page 60 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
AP-35 Projects - 91.420, 91.220(d)
Introduction 
Activities planned for 2021-22 are similar to those from recent years. The City will continue to use CDBG 
administration funds for provision of fair housing activities, public services for grants to non-profit public 
service agencies, and the remainder of CDBG funds for minor home repair programs, community 
development projects, and economic development.
#
Project Name
1
Community Funding Program
2
Home Energy and Repair Program
3
CDBG Admin
4
Street and Sidewalk Reconstruction
5
Affordable Housing
6
Microbusiness Assistance
7
Public Facilities
Table 7 – Project Information
Describe the reasons for allocation priorities and any obstacles to addressing underserved 
needs
The housing, social service, and community development needs of the community are overwhelming 
when compared to funding available from CDBG and other sources. Allocations of funding are made 
with careful consideration of the community's needs and input from the citizen participation process 
and the Community Relations Commission. City staff, along with other jurisdictions and community 
partners, cooperate in order to streamline processes and avoid duplication of services in an effort to 
maximize the available resources. 
The City of San Mateo continues to work with the community to best respond to the ongoing COVID-19 
pandemic.
60 of 250

--- page 61 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
AP-38 Project Summary
Project Summary Information
61 of 250

--- page 62 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
40
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Project Name
Community Funding Program
Target Area
 
Goals Supported
Community Funding
Needs Addressed
Public Services
Funding
CDBG: $111,000
Description
Provide $111,000 in funds to non-profit agencies to provide public 
services for the core service priorities including basic human needs, 
senior services, youth services, and providing affordable housing.
Target Date
6/30/2023
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
Project will only serve low- and moderate-income individuals and 
families, as well as those from presumed benefit groups such as abused 
children, victims of domestic violence, elderly, and homeless. Based on 
reports from prior years, the project will serve approximately 5,054 San 
Mateo residents.
1
Location Description
Project will serve the community members citywide. 
62 of 250

--- page 63 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
41
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Planned Activities
Project provides funds to non-profit agency sub-recipients to carry out 
public service programs. Agencies interface with a variety of 
departments within the City including police, housing, and code 
enforcement on a regular basis to further their efforts in the community. 
The City anticipates funding seven sub-recipients evenly with available 
funding. In addition, the City is funding an economic development 
program outside of the public services cap. The awards for this year as 
follows:
CALL Primrose: drop-in food pantry program providing free grocery 
services. Goal is to serve 1,600 individuals. 
CORA: providing survivors of domestic violence and their children with 
legal services. Goal is to serve 64 individuals.
Friends for Youth: provide mentoring relationships and support services 
to underserved, vulnerable youth. Goal is to serve 192 individuals.
Legal Aid Society of San Mateo County: legal services to households in 
danger of eviction and/or living in substandard conditions. Goal is to 
serve 250 clients. 
Life Moves: provide shelter and supportive services to assist homeless 
individuals to return to self- sufficiency at the First Step for Families 
facility which includes 117 beds. Goal is to serve 210 clients
Ombudsman: advocate for the dignity and quality of life of people living 
in licensed long term care facilities. Goal is to serve 1,909 individuals
Rape Trauma Services: services for abused children from infancy through 
17 years of age. Goal is to serve 80 individuals.
Samaritan House: provides a broad spectrum of assistance, including 
case management, emergency assistance - food, clothing, shelter, 
healthcare - as well as, financial assistance and empowerment services. 
Goal is to serve 228 individuals.
St James: provides breakfast items for children who come to school 
hungry as well as uniform items for families that cannot afford to 
purchase the school uniform. Goal is to serve 521 individuals.
Project Name
Home Energy and Repair Program
Target Area
 
Goals Supported
Maintain and Preserve Existing Housing
Needs Addressed
Affordable Housing
2
Funding
CDBG: $105,000
City sources: $500,000
63 of 250

--- page 64 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
42
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Description
Provides funding to non-profit agencies to provide minor repairs, 
accessibility modifications, and energy efficiency measures to income 
eligible homeowners.
Target Date
6/30/2023
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
Project will assist 31 households with repairs and energy improvements. 
Location Description
Project will only apply to homes located in the City of San Mateo. 
Planned Activities
Project will provide grants to sub-recipients for programs to complete 
minor rehabilitation, energy improvements, and accessibility 
improvements to low- and moderate-income homeowners. Four grants 
will be provided to three agencies as follows:

Rebuilding Together Peninsula: Safe at Home program provides 
minor home repairs including health and safety measures, 
emergency electrical and plumbing, etc. Goal is to serve 4 
households.

Center for Independence of Individuals with Disabilities: Housing 
Accessibility Modifications program provides accessibility 
measures to homes including grab bars, wheelchair ramps, etc. 
Goal is to serve 14 households. 

El Concilio of San Mateo County: Peninsula Minor Home Repair 
program provides energy efficiency measures including repair of 
leaking windows/doors, water conservation measures, etc. Goal 
is to serve 7 households.

Rebuilding Together Peninsula: National Rebuilding Day provides 
larger scale rehabilitation of homes in conjunction with 
volunteers and many other funding sources. Goal is to serve 6 
households. 
Rebuilding Together: Housing Rehabilitation Loan Program uses funds 
from the State of California's CalHome program. RTP will provide 
construction administration for loans up to $60,000 to low-income 
households.
Project Name
CDBG Admin
3
Target Area
 
64 of 250

--- page 65 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
43
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Goals Supported
Maintain and Preserve Existing Housing
Community Funding
Street and Sidewalk Improvements
AFH Goal: Affirmative Marketing of Housing
AFH Goal: Facilitate Streamlined Review of Housing
AFH Goal: Support Education of Stakeholders
AFH Goal: Strengthen Section 8 Program
AFH Goal: Retention of Special Needs Housing
AFH Goal: Support Displaced Households
AFH Goal: Reasonable Accommodation Policy
AFH Goal: Dev. of Accessory Dwelling Units
Needs Addressed
Affordable Housing
Public Services
Community Development
Public Facilities Improvements
AFH Factor: Lack of Effective Marketing Strategies
AFH Factor: Development Approval Challenges
AFH Factor: Lack of Support for Affordable Housing
AFH Factor: Resistance to Density and Growth
AFH Factor: Lack of Zoning Flexibility
Funding
CDBG: $105,000
Description
Provide funds for staff and overhead to administer the CDBG grant. The 
City will also provide a $25,000 grant to an agency for provision of Fair 
Housing services to come from admin.
Target Date
6/30/2023
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
The fair housing grant will serve approximately 215 households.
Location Description
Project will take place in City of San Mateo.
Planned Activities
Administrative costs for management of the CDBG program. In addition, 
the City will provide funds for the provision of fair housing activities. 
Project Name
Street and Sidewalk Reconstruction
Target Area
CDBG Priority Neighborhood
Goals Supported
Street and Sidewalk Improvements
4
Needs Addressed
Community Development
65 of 250

--- page 66 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
44
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Funding
CDBG: $600,000
Description
Funding to reconstruct failing streets and sidewalks as well as other 
pedestrian safety improvements.
Target Date
6/30/2023
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
Project will be completed in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood, which has 
approximately 20,000 residents
Location Description
Project will be completed in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood. 
Planned Activities
Funds will be used for street safety improvements focusing on sidewalk 
improvements within the CDBG Priority Neighborhood.
Project Name
Affordable Housing
Target Area
 
Goals Supported
Affordable Housing
Needs Addressed
Affordable Housing
Funding
City sources: $6,850,000
Description
Construction of 225 affordable housing units and public parking garage 
on two sites in downtown San Mateo. Housing funds will not be used for 
public parking.
Target Date
12/23/2023
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
225 families
Location Description
480 E. 4th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94401 and 400 E. 5th Avenue, San 
Mateo, CA 94401
5
Planned Activities
Construction of new housing
Project Name
Microbusiness Assistance
Target Area
 
Goals Supported
Community Funding
6
Needs Addressed
Public Services
66 of 250

--- page 67 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
45
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Funding
CDBG: $25,000
Description
Economic development grant of $25,000 to Renaissance 
Entrepreneurship Center for microbusiness assistance activity.
Target Date
6/30/2023
Estimate the number 
and type of families 
that will benefit from 
the proposed 
activities
The economic development program will serve 30 businesses.
Location Description
Project will serve the community members citywide. 
Planned Activities
Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center: provides customized training for 
English and Spanish speaking business owners to start and grow small 
businesses. Goal is to serve 30 businesses. The funds for this activity will 
not be counted under public service cap as they are a microbusiness 
assistance program for economic development.
67 of 250

--- page 68 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
46
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
AP-50 Geographic Distribution - 91.420, 91.220(f)
Description of the geographic areas of the entitlement (including areas of low-income and 
minority concentration) where assistance will be directed 
The City of San Mateo provides a number of programs that assist low-income individuals and 
households based and therefore may be located anywhere within the city limits of San Mateo.  In 
addition, the City has identified a CDBG Priority Neighborhood by utilizing the low-income definitions 
provided by HUD.  This area includes census tracts or block groups with at least 51% of the persons 
considered low-income as reported in the Census and includes North Central, North Shoreview and 
South Norfolk neighborhoods.
Geographic Distribution
Target Area
Percentage of Funds
CDBG Priority Neighborhood
51
Table 8 - Geographic Distribution 
Rationale for the priorities for allocating investments geographically 
The CDBG Priority Neighborhood has a number of contributing factors to its designation, especially as 
compared to other neighborhoods in San Mateo:

Lowest median income and high percentage of families below the poverty level

Deteriorating conditions, including high degree of dumping and graffiti

High percentage of overcrowding, including streets/traffic and housing

Older, deteriorating housing stock
Discussion
68 of 250

--- page 69 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
AP-75 Barriers to affordable housing -91.420, 91.220(j)
Introduction
The City is committed to using available tools to increase the availability of affordable housing. Current programs include an inclusionary zoning 
ordinance, commercial linkage fee, and the City also works with developers of 100% affordable projects using local funding and land. 
Actions it planned to remove or ameliorate the negative effects of public policies that serve as barriers to affordable housing such 
as land use controls, tax policies affecting land, zoning ordinances, building codes, fees and charges, growth limitations, and 
policies affecting the return on residential investment
Streamlining the approval process for residential developments is a high priority for the City of San Mateo.  A number of efforts are planned this 
program year.

Consistent with 2016 state housing legislation, the City Council adopted a new Accessory Dwelling Unit ordinance in March 2017, which 
allows for one Accessory Dwelling Unit (aka secondary units) as of right within residential zoning districts. The ordinance includes ADU 
size limitation, parking exemptions and requirements, location requirements, and other standards. Although the number of applications 
has increased with these changes, the City continues to look into streamlining the process and will propose additional adjustments to 
the ordinance.

The City formed an in-house team to look at streamlining the development review process and will also hire a consultant during this 
program year to assist in redesigned the current processes.

During this program year, the City will finalize a study to evaluate all development fees to measure the impacts on residential 
construction.
Discussion
69 of 250

--- page 70 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
AP-85 Other Actions - 91.420, 91.220(k)
Introduction
Actions planned to address obstacles to meeting underserved needs
The recent booming economy has placed further stress on low wage earning families and the cost of 
housing. The City will use its limited resources to address these needs in accordance with the priorities 
identified by the Community Relations Commission (CRC).  Federal funding sources are unpredictable, so 
the City has made financial adjustments and will focus on opportunities to strengthen and/or support 
the businesses of San Mateo that are the providers of jobs, income and security to its residents.  The 
City continues to look for new ways to streamline procedures and collaborate with other community 
groups and has especially focused on volunteerism.  With the CDBG Public Services grants, the City will 
continue to partner with its nonprofit business and service providers to provide direct support and basic 
needs services (food, shelter, clothing, etc.) for residents most in need. The CRC also has prioritized job 
training/small business support, as well as capital improvements in the CDBG Priority Areas.
Through the CRC, the remarks received at the community needs workshops and hearings were reviewed 
and summarized in the Citizen Participation section of this document. Each year the Community Funding 
grants are selected as a tool to address the underserved needs of the community. The primary obstacle 
in addressing most community needs is available funding.  The CRC has tried to allocate its limited funds 
in a manner that provides unduplicated services and tries to stretch the funding to be cost effective.
Actions planned to foster and maintain affordable housing
The City works collaboratively with nonprofit organizations and other jurisdictions for the preservation 
and development of affordable housing.  The County of San Mateo and the cities and towns within itself 
formed a workgroup called 21 Elements to meet quarterly to share best practices on housing policies 
and programs for the adoption of their respective Housing Elements and General Plans.  The group also 
shares in costs of studies, such as the countywide Nexus Study in order to establish Affordable Housing 
and Commercial Linkage Fees (CLF). The City of San Mateo adopted its CLF in 2016 through this group, 
charging new commercial developments to mitigate the impact on housing demand created by 
increasing jobs in the community.
The City has local funding sources that can support the preservation and development of affordable 
housing besides HUD. "Boomerang" funds, property taxes that were set aside for housing in the former 
Redevelopment Areas (RDA) have been pledged for housing. The City also collects loan repayments from 
loans made by the former RDA to assist acquisition, rehab or new construction of affordable housing. 
The City has funds that have been repaid over time from loans made through the State Dept. of Housing 
and Community Development's CalHome program. These funds will be made available for a Housing 
70 of 250

--- page 71 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Rehabilitation Loan Program available to low-income homeowners in the City to allow them to preserve 
their existing affordability and stay safely in their homes
The City's inclusionary Below Market Rate Program (BMR) requires new market rate housing to set-aside 
15% of the units to be affordable. The program provides both rental and ownership units. Staff manages 
the regulatory agreements of these units and conducts regular monitoring to ensure the affordability is 
maintained.
The City continues to administer its First Time Homebuyer program. The affordability of these units is 
ensured through the resale restrictions and the City’s first right to purchase so the units are sold to new 
eligible buyers. The City budgets funds for additional subsidy, if needed, to ensure the affordability of 
assisted units.
The City also entered into a development agreement for two former RDA sites downtown that will 
include family rental units for households up to 80% AMI and a public parking garage.  Referred to as the 
Kiku Crossing, the project is located at 480 E. Fourth Avenue with access to retail, restaurants and a 
Caltrain station 3 blocks away. The developer and the City decided to utilize the benefits of extra density 
provided by AB1763 which became law in Jan 2020 to revise the project from 164 to 225 units. The 
project received final planning approvals in Aug 2020, and executed the Development, Disposition and 
Loan Agreement. The City has committed $7.5 million in subsidy. Construction is expected to begin at 
throughout 2022.
The City updated its ADU program in 2018 and is working with 21 Elements to encourage the production 
of small units incorporated into single family properties. The City will adopt further program revisions in 
2022-23.
 
Actions planned to reduce lead-based paint hazards
The City will continue to use its adopted procedures and guidelines to evaluate and reduce lead-based 
paint hazards as required for each eligible project performed using CDBG and HOME funding. This will 
apply to assisted acquisition, rehabilitation, the Minor Home Repair and Paint programs, and/or 
rehabilitation projects including Rebuilding Together Peninsula.
Actions planned to reduce the number of poverty-level families
The actions to work toward eliminating poverty in San Mateo include:

Strengthen the economic base in order to create and retain job opportunities in San Mateo:
71 of 250

--- page 72 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)

Provide affordable housing: Complete development of 225 units of affordable housing at the 
Kiku Crossing project site.

Provide social services to help people reach self-sufficiency through public services grants.
Actions planned to develop institutional structure 
Gaps previously identified in institutional structure included reduction in staffing due to severe budget 
reductions, limiting institutional capacity. This will continue to be a reality for San Mateo and other 
jurisdictions and nonprofit agencies as well.  This requires more careful coordination in services and as 
well as administration of programs.  The Countywide CDBG Cohort group is an example of how staff 
from several cities coordinates public service agreements and monitoring in order to streamline the 
process. During the upcoming year the group will continue to share best practices and identify program 
areas that can be streamlined.
Actions planned to enhance coordination between public and private housing and social 
service agencies
The City will continue to collaborate with public and private housing developers as it manages its 
ongoing BMR program and manages new subsidized housing projects.  In City sponsored affordable 
housing projects, it is expected that services are provided to the occupants such as transportation 
subsidy and information, after school programs, social activities, information and referral to other 
services including health, credit and food and clothing.  The community is fortunate that these agencies 
are very well connected already, and the City assists when it can to strengthen the networks.
Discussion
Housing Preferences and Distribution 
In light of the huge response, usually resulting in hundreds of applications for affordable housing 
projects, San Mateo adopted its Marketing Policies for Affordable Housing to establish a fair and 
effective process to lease rental units, and sell ownership units to new eligible buyers. The policy 
establishes household size priorities for bedroom sizes and a local preference for people who either live 
or work in San Mateo.  The locality preference is a result of the City’s desire to prioritize local funds for 
local residents and to reduce commutes and resulting traffic congestion for those who work in the 
City.  The City has analyzed the racial/ethnic make-up of San Mateo using census data and compared it 
to the local region, defined as the County of San Mateo, and found no material differences in 
racial/ethnic percentages, therefore determined that this policy does not have a disparate impact on 
any minority group. This preference does not apply if a particular funding source prohibits a local 
preference.
The City has provided subsidies for a variety of housing types including rental, ownership, transitional 
and supportive housing units in a variety of locations and for a range of income levels, in an effort to 
72 of 250

--- page 73 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
serve as many households as possible. This is extremely challenging in a city of only nine square miles in 
size with one of the highest land and housing costs in the nation.  Despite these challenges, only 26% of 
the subsidized housing in San Mateo is located in the CDBG Priority Neighborhood, which consists of the 
lowest income households and highest percentage of minorities.  This planning plus the local preference 
provides residents opportunities to live in a variety of neighborhoods citywide.  This is further assisted 
by the fact that all private developments, regardless of location, provide inclusionary units which results 
in advancing a variety of housing choices for community members.
73 of 250

--- page 74 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Program Specific Requirements
AP-90 Program Specific Requirements - 91.420, 91.220(l)(1,2,4)
Introduction
Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) 
Reference 24 CFR 91.220(l)(1) 
Projects planned with all CDBG funds expected to be available during the year are identified in the 
Projects Table. The following identifies program income that is available for use that is included in 
projects to be carried out. 
1. The total amount of program income that will have been received before the start of the next 
program year and that has not yet been reprogrammed
0
2. The amount of proceeds from section 108 loan guarantees that will be used during the year to 
address the priority needs and specific objectives identified in the grantee's strategic plan.
0
3. The amount of surplus funds from urban renewal settlements
0
4. The amount of any grant funds returned to the line of credit for which the planned use has not 
been included in a prior statement or plan
0
5. The amount of income from float-funded activities
0
Total Program Income:
0
Other CDBG Requirements 
1. The amount of urgent need activities
0
2. The estimated percentage of CDBG funds that will be used for activities that 
benefit persons of low and moderate income. Overall Benefit - A consecutive 
period of one, two or three years may be used to determine that a minimum 
overall benefit of 70% of CDBG funds is used to benefit persons of low and 
moderate income. Specify the years covered that include this Annual Action Plan.
100.00%
74 of 250

--- page 75 ---
Annual Action Plan
2022
OMB Control No: 2506-0117 (exp. 09/30/2021)
Discussion
The City utilizes 100% of its CDBG funds for eligible activities that assist low- and moderate-income 
households through direct services as well as improvements to the CDBG Priority Neighborhoods.
The CDBG grant funds plus annual program income from loan repayments are consistently allocated and 
spent in a timely manner to maximize assistance to the community. However, it is expected that there 
will be delays in delivering services, completing projects, and drawing down funds due to the COVID-19 
pandemic.
The three-year period for calculating CDBG benefit is 2021, 2022, and 2023.
75 of 250

--- page 76 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-6073
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
May 02, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Temporary Accounting Services – Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Maze & Associates for temporary accounting services in the amount of $144,115 to support 
implementation of the enterprise resource planning system and implementation of Governmental Accounting Standards 
Board Statement No. 87, and authorize the Finance Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
In February 2022, the City Council approved a series of agreements with various vendors to implement the new enterprise 
resource planning (ERP) system, which began in March 2022 and is projected to be completed by July 2023. ERP 
implementation requires substantial staff resources, and the City does not have sufficient resources to successfully 
implement the ERP and maintain current service levels, including completion of the year-end audit and Governmental 
Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 87, which is required to be implemented in fiscal year 2021-22. The current 
labor market for finance professionals is very limited, so temporary staffing resources will be obtained through multiple 
sources, including temporary staffing firms and retired annuitants. Based on the foregoing, staff recommends approval of 
the proposed agreement for temporary accounting services with Maze and Associates.
BUDGET IMPACT:
No additional budget appropriations are anticipated to be needed throughout the duration of the ERP implementation, as 
the City should have offsetting vacancy savings across non-safety operations.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
76 of 250

--- page 77 ---
AGREEMENT WITH MAZE & ASSOCIATES 
FOR ACCOUNTING SERVICES 
FOR  
TEMPORARY SUPPORT DURING ERP IMPLEMENTATION, GASB 87 IMPLEMENTATION, AND YEAR-END 
CLOSING SUPPORT 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of _________ 2022, by and between the CITY 
OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California ("CITY"), and 
MAZE & ASSOCIATES, a corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 3478 Buskirk Avenue, Suite 
215, Pleasant Hill, CA 94523. 
 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain accounting services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these accounting services by reason of 
its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered to provide 
the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
.
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
77 of 250

--- page 78 ---
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 1, 2022 and be 
completed on or about December 31, 2022. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee not to exceed 
the amount of $144,115, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
78 of 250

--- page 79 ---
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
79 of 250

--- page 80 ---
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
80 of 250

--- page 81 ---
To CITY: 
Rich Lee 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
Maze & Associates 
Attn:  Katherine Yuen Krisch 
3478 Buskirk Ave 
STE 215 
Pleasant Hill, CA 94523 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
81 of 250

--- page 82 ---
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Maze & Associates have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Rich Lee 
Finance Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Timothy Krisch 
Its Authorized Agent 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Linh P. Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
Katherine Yuen Krisch  
Vice President 
 
Date 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A:  
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B:  
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C:  
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
82 of 250

--- page 83 ---
T  925.930.0902  
Accountancy Corporation 
F  925.930.0135 
3478 Buskirk Avenue, Suite 215 
E  maze@mazeassociates.com 
Pleasant Hill, CA 94523 
W  mazeassociates.com 
April 7, 2022 
Rich Lee 
Finance Director 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Dear Rich: 
We are pleased to confirm our understanding of the additional services we are to provide for the City of San 
Mateo.  This serves as an addendum to our Consultant Agreement dated July 22, 2021 please refer to that 
contract for our general terms and conditions. 
We will continue to provide various accounting services for the City as deemed necessary up to 40 hours 
per week, from April 1, 2022 through September 30, 2022.  The work is scheduled to be performed by 
Cindy Kato.  Her billing rates for the above period are $110 per hour in April and $114 per hour from May 
to September. 
In addition, we will provide the following services for the City as deemed necessary for the City, for the 
period April 1, 2022 through September 30, 2022: 
•
Support services for implementation of GASB 87.  This task will be performed by Alex Lam at a
rate of $145/hr.
•
Support services for the fiscal year 2021-22 year-end audit.  In addition to Cindy Kato and Alex
Lam, Maria Munoz will also assist with this task at a rate of $160/hr.
The total contracted fees will not exceed $144,115 for the period outlined above. 
Thank you for your attention to this matter, and please contact me with any questions that you may have. 
Yours very truly, 
Maze & Associates 
RESPONSE: 
This letter correctly sets forth the understanding of the City. 
By: 
________________________________________ 
Title: 
________________________________________ 
Date: 
________________________________________ 
EXHIBIT A
83 of 250

--- page 84 ---
ly MAZE

fh WA .& ASSOCIATES

July 22, 2021

Rich Lee

Finance Director

City of San Mateo
330 W. 20" Ave.

San Mateo, CA 94403

Dear Rich:

This letter is to confirm our understanding of the terms and objectives of our engagement with the City of San
Mateo, California, (City) as well as the nature and limitations of the services we will provide.

For the period starting July 22, 2021, through approximately the end of November 2021, we will provide various
accounting services for the City as deemed necessary by the City's Finance staff.

We understand this engagement requires approximately up to 32 hours per week, Work is scheduled to be
performed primarily by Maria Munoz at a rate of $155 per hour and Alex Lam at a rate of $140 per hour. From
time to time, other professionals of our firm may assist in the engagement. Their 2021 billing rates are as follows:

2021
Hourly
Staff Level Rates
Partner $250
Manager $185 to $207
Supervisor $130 to $155
Senior Associates $115
Associates $95

The total contracted fees will not exceed $100,000 for the period of time outlined above.

Our engagement is limited to the period and the accounting services indicated above. As our services are limited
in nature, we do not verify or audit any of the information you provide to us. If we notice that an amount appears
unusual or out of the ordinary we will call it to your attention, but our engagement cannot be relied upon to disclose
errors, fraudulent financial reporting, misappropriation of assets, or noncompliance with laws and regulations that
may have occurred. However, we will inform the appropriate level of management of any material errors and of
any evidence or information that comes to our attention during the performance of our engagement that fraud may
have occurred. We will also report to the appropriate level of management any evidence or information that comes
to our attention regarding noncompliance with laws and regulations that may have occurred unless it is clearly
inconsequential. By your signature below, you understand and agree that you are responsible for preventing and
detecting fraud. Should you wish us to expand our procedures to include additional work and investigations, we
will arrange this with you in a separate engagement letter.

Our fees and costs for work will be billed monthly. The hourly rate stated covers all expenses including mileage
reimbursement. No travel time will be included in our billing.

t 925.930.0902

Accountancy Corporation F 925.930.0135
3478 Buskirk Avenue, Suite 215 E maze@mazeassociates.com
Pleasant Hill, CA 94523 w mazeassociates.com

&nbsp;
84 of&nbsp;250


--- page 85 ---
Invoices unpaid 30 days past the billing date may be deemed delinquent, and are subject to an interest charge of
1.0% per month. We reserve the right to suspend our services or to withdraw from this engagement in the event
that any of our invoices are deemed delinquent. In the event that any collection action is required to collect unpaid
balances due us, you agree to reimburse us for our costs of collection, including attorneys' fees.

If billings are past due in excess of 90 days of the invoice date, at our election, we may stop all work until your
account is brought current or withdraw from this engagement. The City acknowledges and agrees that we are not
required to continue work in the event of the City’s failure to pay on a timely basis for services rendered as
required by this engagement letter. The City further acknowledges and agrees that in the event we stop work or
withdraw from this engagement as a result of the City’s failure to pay on a timely basis for services rendered as
required by this engagement letter, we shall not be liable for any damages that occur as a result of our ceasing to
render services.

It is our policy to keep records related to this engagement for seven years. However, we do not keep any original
client records, so we will return those to you at the completion of the services rendered under this engagement. It
is your responsibility to retain and protect your records (which includes any work product we provide to you as
well as any records that we return) for possible future use, including potential examination by government or
regulatory agencies. We do not accept responsibility for hosting client information; therefore, you have the sole
responsibility for ensuring you retain and maintain in your possession all your financial and non-financial
information, data, and records.

If a dispute arises among the parties hereto, the parties agree to first try in good faith to settle the dispute by
mediation administered within the county of Contra Costa, California, by a mediation organization, under its
applicable rules for resolving professional accounting and related services disputes before resorting to litigation.
The costs of any mediation proceeding shall be shared equally by all parties.

If, after full consideration and consultation with counsel if so desired, you agree that the foregoing terms shall
govern this engagement, please sign the copy of this letter in the space provided and return the original signed
letter to me, keeping a fully executed copy for your records.

Thank you for your attention to this matter, and please contact me with any questions that you may have.

Very truly yours,
ore 1) nooaSen

Maze & Associates

ACCEPTED AND AGREED:
RESPONSE:

This letter correctly sets forth the understanding of the City.
By: Db

Title: Cy Man 4 Str

Date: g/ 4 ZI

&nbsp;
85 of&nbsp;250


--- page 86 ---
EXHIBIT B
FY22 Year-End Closing Assistance
2021
2022
2022
2022
Actual
Estimated
Hourly 
Estimated
Hours
Hours
Rate
Project Cost
September 
Alex
10
15
145
2,175
$         
August 
Katherine
5
-
                
Maria
56
91.5
160
14,640
         
Alex
76
114
145
16,530
         
Senior Associate
8.5
12.75
120
1,530
           
July 
Maria
4
6
160
960
               
Alex
16
24
145
3,480
           
Senior Associate
2.5
3.75
120
450
               
178
267
39,765
$       
GASB 87 Implementation
Calculation 
Capitalization 
of 
of Leases 
Initial 
Initial 
that are
Evaluation
Measurement
above Threshold
Estimated Number of Leases
15
10
3
Hours per lease
2
5
10
30
50
30
110 Estimated Hours
145
$            
Alex's Hourly Rate
15,950
$       
Average
Number 
Temporary Acccounting Support
Hourly rate
of Hours
Monthly Cost
April 
110
$                         
130
                  
14,300
$             
May
114
                            
130
                  
14,820
                
June
114
                            
130
                  
14,820
                
July
114
                            
130
                  
14,820
                
Aug
114
                            
130
                  
14,820
                
Sept
114
                            
130
                  
14,820
                
88,400
$             
Year-end closing assistance
39,765
$          
GASB 87 Implementation
15,950
$          
Temporary accounting support
88,400
$          
Total not to exceed amount
144,115
$       
86 of 250

--- page 87 ---
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the Contractor’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
87 of 250

--- page 88 ---
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
88 of 250

--- page 89 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5961
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 2, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Indian Springs Park Restrooms Remodel – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to Newton 
Construction, Inc. to remodel the restrooms at Indian Springs Park in the amount of $212,828.37; establish a contingency 
reserve in the amount of $22,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the 
form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
The Indian Springs Park restrooms are due for remodeling. Renovations are needed to replace old infrastructure and 
upgrade the facilities to comply with current accessibility standards required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). 
In 2016, Public Works’ Facilities Division and the Parks and Recreation Department assessed the restrooms and developed 
a long-term plan for remodeling based on greatest need and available funding. Phase 1, 2, and 3 (Beresford and Los 
Prados, Martin Luther King, Bayside and Parkside) were remodeled in 2016-17. The park restrooms included in Phase 4 of 
the remodeling program are at Indian Springs, Casanova, and Fiesta Meadows. Phase 5 includes the Shoreview and 
Lakeshore.
The construction drawings for renovation of the Indian Springs Park restrooms were developed by Public Works in 
coordination with the Parks and Recreation Department. The scope of work includes the replacement of fixtures, 
partitions, flooring, wall finishes, lighting, and water fountain and painting. The City’s Building Division approved the 
construction drawings for a building permit in 2021, which were used as the basis for development of a fixed-price 
proposal utilizing a process called “job order contracting” (JOC). The JOC process includes a contract for a fixed term or 
maximum dollar value in which a contractor is selected based on a competitive bid to perform various and separate job 
orders in the future, during the life of the contract. The JOC contract serves as an "on call" contracting program that is 
procured through one umbrella or framework contract. The contract is competitively procured at the onset of the program 
using a unit price book (UPB), unit price list construction catalog, or custom list of construction prices as a basis for pricing 
in the procurement process.  Each individual job order is then priced from that UPB and allows for rapid deployment of 
projects with a transparent pricing mechanism.
The JOC process is a competitive procurement method for construction services approved by the City Council by resolution 
on March 18, 2019, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), which permits the use of procedures 
approved by the Council that are not set forth in the purchasing ordinance. Specifically, this process involves the 
development of a detailed project list, establishment of a firm price using a unit price book, and the selection of a pre-
qualified construction contractor upon the City’s authorization to proceed, all by the JOC contractor.
In this case, a multi-step process was used to tentatively select Newton Construction, Inc. to perform the restroom 
89 of 250

--- page 90 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
remodeling work, subject to Council approval.  First, Sourcewell (formerly known as the National Joint Powers Alliance or 
NJPA) conducted a competitive proposal process to select The Gordian Group, Inc. (Gordian) to implement JOC on behalf 
of Sourcewell member agencies.  Second, Gordian competitively bids and administers the JOC process with the use of 
Gordian’s unit pricing that will provide the best price to the City.  This allows the City to complete required public 
improvements efficiently by eliminating the need to develop project specifications and eliminating solicitation of bids 
through a project-specific competitive bidding process. Here, Gordian used the JOC process to select Newton Construction, 
Inc.  Newton, the low bidder, and is the pre-qualified contractor selected to construct the restroom project. 
With contract approval, the procurement of materials would begin in May 2022, with construction in the fall of 2022 and 
completion before the spring of 2023. Staff recommends the contract award to Newton Construction, Inc. because of its 
experience and availability to perform construction services.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient funding available in the Park Restroom Refurbishment Phase IV Project for the construction contract and 
contingency.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager II
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
90 of 250

--- page 91 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
 
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE TO AWARD A CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT TO 
NEWTON CONSTRUCTION, INC. FOR THE INDIAN SPRINGS PARK RESTROOM REMODEL 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to
approve alternative purchasing procedures upon a finding that the alternative purchasing procedure is
in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell (formerly known as NJPA) conducted competitive bidding processes to select The 
Gordian Group, Inc. (Gordian) to implement Job Order Contracting on behalf of their member agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Job Order Contracting process allows for an umbrella construction contract to cover 
various and separate job orders during the life of the contract, and is beneficial for renovation, remodeling, or 
alterations where many small project tasks will arise, but the timing, type, and quantity of work are unknown; 
and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell and Gordian have conducted competitive bidding to select contractors to perform 
Job Order Contracting based on Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, utilizing Gordian’s Unit Price Book and contract allows the City to utilize set competitive 
prices without the need to develop project specifications and to solicit bids for each minor project tasks; and
WHEREAS, the City approved Job Order Contracting as a competitive procurement method for 
construction services by resolution on March 18, 2019 upon findings that the Job Order Contracting process with 
Gordian is in the best interests of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Indian Springs Park Restroom Remodel project is designed and documented to be priced 
using Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, Newton Construction, Inc. was selected based on their experience and availability to perform 
construction services using Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and 
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff has determined that this is the best price available 
because companies have submitted competitive bids.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
1.
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, this project is categorically exempt from CEQA as 
an “existing facility” because it consists of the renovation of an existing building involving negligible 
or no expansion of use.
91 of 250

--- page 92 ---
2.
The Job Order Contracting process, as approved by City Council on March 18, 2019, utilizing Gordian’s 
contract and Unit Price Book to award a construction contract to Newton Construction, Inc. is in the 
best interests of the City because it offers the best price to the City and allows the City to complete 
the remodel of the restrooms at Indian Springs Park efficiently by eliminating the need to develop 
project specifications and eliminating solicitation of bids through a project specific competitive 
bidding process.
3.
A construction contract is approved in the amount of $212,828.37 to Newton Construction, Inc. to 
remodel the restrooms at Indian Springs Park. 
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the contract on behalf of the City and issue 
change orders within the contingency amount.
92 of 250

--- page 93 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 1 of 26 
CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION 
This Contract is by and between. 
OWNER 
CONTRACTOR 
The City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Street 
San Mateo, California 94403 
Newton Construction, Inc. 
2436 Broad Street  
San Luis Obispo, CA 93401 
 
Owner and Contractor hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 - THE WORK 
1.01 
Work 
A. 
Work includes all labor, materials, equipment, services, and documentation necessary to 
construct the Project defined herein.  The Work may include related services such as testing, 
start-up, and commissioning, all as required by the Contract Documents. 
B. 
The Contractor shall complete all Work as specified or indicated in the Contract Documents. 
The Project is generally described as follows: 
1. 
Indian Springs Park Restroom Remodel which includes site barriers; demolition and 
disposal; framing; plumbing; electrical; mechanical; new fixtures; new accessories; 
wall tile; flooring; painting; inspection; testing and closeout. 
2. 
The Site of the Work includes designated work areas described in greater detail in the 
Contract Documents but generally located at 313 W. 39th Avenue, San Mateo, 
California. 
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY 
2.01 
Defined Terms 
A. 
Wherever used in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, a term printed with 
initial capital letters, including the term’s singular and plural forms, will have the meaning 
indicated in the definitions below. In addition to terms specifically defined, terms with initial 
capital letters in the Contract Documents include references to identified articles and 
paragraphs, and the titles of other documents or forms. 
1. 
Constituent of Concern—Asbestos, petroleum, radioactive materials, polychlorinated 
biphenyls (PCBs), hazardous waste, and any substance, product, waste, or other 
material of any nature whatsoever that is or becomes listed, regulated, or addressed 
pursuant to (a) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§9601 et seq. (“CERCLA”); (b) the Hazardous Materials 
Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. §§5501 et seq.; (c) the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§6901 et seq. (“RCRA”); (d) the Toxic Substances Control Act, 
15 U.S.C. §§2601 et seq.; (e) the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq.; (f) the Clean 
Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  §§7401 et seq.; or (g) any other federal, state, or local statute, law, 
rule, regulation,  ordinance, resolution, code, order, or decree regulating, relating to, or 
93 of 250

--- page 94 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 2 of 26 
imposing liability or  standards of conduct concerning, any hazardous, toxic, or 
dangerous waste, substance, or material. 
2. 
Hazardous Environmental Condition— The presence at the Site of Constituents of 
Concern in such quantities or circumstances that may present a danger to persons or 
property exposed thereto. The presence at the Site of materials that are necessary for 
the execution of the Work, or that are to be incorporated in the Work, and that are 
controlled and contained pursuant to industry practices, Laws and Regulations, and the 
requirements of the Contract, does not establish a Hazardous Environmental Condition. 
3. 
Resident Project Representative - The authorized representative of Owner assigned to 
assist Owner at the Site. As used herein, the term Resident Project Representative or 
“RPR” includes any assistants or field staff of Resident Project Representative.  The RPR 
for this project is: 
a. 
Steve Wu, City of San Mateo 
2.02 
Terminology 
A. 
The words and terms discussed in the following paragraphs are not defined but, when used 
in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, have the indicated meaning. 
B. 
Intent of Certain Terms or Adjectives: 
1. 
The Contract Documents include the terms “as allowed,” “as approved,” “as ordered,” 
“as directed” or terms of like effect or import to authorize an exercise of professional 
judgment by Owner, Engineer, or Architect. In addition, the adjectives “reasonable,” 
“suitable,” “acceptable,” “proper,” “satisfactory,” or adjectives of like effect or import 
are used to describe an action or determination of Engineer as to the Work. It is 
intended that such exercise of professional judgment, action, or determination will be 
solely to evaluate, in general, the Work for compliance with the information in the 
Contract Documents and with the design concept of the Project as a functioning whole 
as shown or indicated in the Contract Documents (unless there is a specific statement 
indicating otherwise). The use of any such term or adjective is not intended to and shall 
not be effective to assign to Engineer any duty or authority to supervise or direct the 
performance of the Work, or any duty or authority to undertake responsibility contrary 
to the provisions of any provision of the Contract Documents. 
C. 
Day: 
1. 
The word “day” means a calendar day of 24 hours measured from midnight to the next 
midnight. 
D. 
Defective: 
1. 
The word “defective,” when modifying the word “Work,” refers to Work that is 
unsatisfactory, faulty, or deficient in that it: 
a. 
does not conform to the Contract Documents; or 
b. 
does not meet the requirements of any applicable inspection, reference standard, 
test, or approval referred to in the Contract Documents; or 
c. 
has been damaged prior to Engineer’s recommendation of final payment (unless 
responsibility for the protection thereof has been assumed by Owner at Substantial 
Completion. 
94 of 250

--- page 95 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 3 of 26 
E. 
Furnish, Install, Perform, Provide: 
1. 
The word “furnish,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to supply and deliver said services, materials, or equipment to the Site (or 
some other specified location) ready for use or installation and in usable or operable 
condition. 
2. 
The word “install,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to put into use or place in final position said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use. 
3. 
The words “perform” or “provide,” when used in connection with services, materials, or 
equipment, shall mean to furnish and install said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use. 
4. 
If the Contract Documents establish an obligation of Contractor with respect to specific 
services, materials, or equipment, but do not expressly use any of the four words 
“furnish,” “install,” “perform,” or “provide,” then Contractor shall furnish and install 
said services, materials, or equipment complete and ready for intended use. 
F. 
Unless stated otherwise in the Contract Documents, words or phrases that have a well- 
known technical or construction industry or trade meaning are used in the Contract 
Documents in accordance with such recognized meaning. 
2.03 
Contract Documents Defined 
A. 
The Contract Documents consist of the following documents: 
1. 
This Contract. 
2. 
Performance bond. 
3. 
Payment bond. 
4. 
Exhibits to this Contract (enumerated as follows): 
a. 
Exhibit A - Contractor’s Proposal 
b. 
Exhibit B – Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts. 
5. 
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 2: IQCC Standard Terms and Conditions and 
Contract General Conditions. 
6. 
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task Catalog. 
7. 
National Joint Powers Alliance Book 4: Technical Specifications. 
8. 
The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective Date of the 
Contract: 
a. 
Work Change Directives. 
b. 
Change Orders. 
c. 
Field Orders. 
95 of 250

--- page 96 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 4 of 26 
ARTICLE 3 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS 
3.01 
Intent of Contract Documents 
A. 
It is the intent of the Contract Documents to describe a functionally complete project. The 
Contract Documents do not indicate or describe all the Work required to complete the 
Project. Additional details required for the correct installation of selected products are to be 
provided by the Contractor and coordinated with the Owner and RPR. This Contract 
supersedes prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written or oral. 
The Contract Documents are complementary; what is required by one part of the Contract 
Documents is as binding as if required by other parts of the Contract Documents. 
B. 
During the performance of the Work and until final payment, Contractor and Owner shall 
submit all matters in question concerning the requirements of the Contract Documents or 
relating to the acceptability of the Work under the Contract Documents to the RPR. RPR will 
be the initial interpreter of the requirements of the Contract Documents, and judge of the 
acceptability of the Work thereunder. 
C. 
RPR will render a written clarification, interpretation, or decision on the issue submitted, or 
initiate a modification to the Contract Documents. 
D. 
Contractor, and its subcontractors and suppliers, shall not have or acquire any title to or 
ownership rights to any of the Drawings, Specifications, or other documents (including copies 
or electronic media editions) prepared by RPR or its consultants. 
3.02 
Reporting and Resolving Discrepancies 
A. 
Reporting Discrepancies: 
1. 
Contractor’s Verification of Figures and Field Measurements: Before undertaking each 
part of the Work, Contractor shall carefully study the Contract Documents, and check 
and verify pertinent figures and dimensions therein, particularly with respect to 
applicable field measurements. Contractor shall promptly report in writing to Engineer 
any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy that Contractor discovers, or has actual 
knowledge of, and shall not proceed with any Work affected thereby until the conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation by 
Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents. 
2. 
Contractor’s Review of Contract Documents: If, before or during the performance of the 
Work, Contractor discovers any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy within the 
Contract Documents, or between the Contract Documents and (a) any applicable Law 
or Regulation, (b) actual field conditions, (c) any standard specification, manual, 
reference standard, or code, or (d) any instruction of any Supplier, then Contractor shall 
promptly report it to Engineer in writing. Contractor shall not proceed with the Work 
affected thereby (except in an emergency as required by Paragraph 7.15) until the 
conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation 
by Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents issued 
pursuant to Paragraph 11.01. 
3. 
Contractor shall not be liable to Owner or Engineer for failure to report any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy in the Contract Documents unless Contractor had 
actual knowledge thereof. 
96 of 250

--- page 97 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 5 of 26 
B. 
Resolving Discrepancies: 
1. 
Except as may be otherwise specifically stated in the Contract Documents, the 
provisions of the Contract Documents shall take precedence in resolving any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy between such provisions of the Contract Documents 
and: 
a. 
the provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document); or 
b. 
the provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation). 
2. 
When a conflict exists between drawings or between drawings and details, the more 
stringent of the two shall prevail.  When a conflict exists between two specifications, 
the more stringent of the two shall prevail. 
3. 
In the event of a conflict that cannot be resolved by interpreting the Contract 
Documents as a single, integrated document and giving effect to each provision therein, 
the Contract Document higher in precedence shall control and supersede the Contract 
Documents lower in precedence in accordance with the following listing arranged from 
the highest to the lowest in precedence:  
a. 
Change Order. 
b. 
Addenda. 
c. 
Contract. 
d. 
Technical Specifications included as an Exhibit to this Contract. 
e. 
Drawings included as an Exhibit to this Contract. 
f. 
Owner Standard Specifications. 
g. 
Owner Standard Drawings. 
h. 
National Joint Powers Alliance Book 4: Technical Specifications. 
i. 
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 2: IQCC Standard Terms and Conditions and 
Contract General Conditions. 
j. 
The provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document). 
k. 
The provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation). 
l. 
Notice to Bidder. 
m. Instruction to Bidder. 
97 of 250

--- page 98 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 6 of 26 
ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT TIMES 
4.01 
Contract Times 
A. 
The Work will be substantially completed within 365 days after the Effective Date of the 
Contract and completed and ready for final payment within 395 days after the Effective Date 
of the Contract. 
4.02 
Liquidated Damages 
A. 
Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence in the performance of the 
Contract, and that Owner will incur damages if Contractor does not complete the Work 
according to the requirements of Paragraph 4.01. Because such damages for delay would be 
difficult and costly to determine and the parties agree that $1000 per day is a reasonable 
approximation of the Owner’s damages, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated 
damages for delay (but not as a penalty) Contractor shall pay Owner $1000 for each day that 
expires after the Contract Time for substantial completion. 
4.03 
Delays in Contractor’s Progress 
A. 
If Owner, RPR, or anyone for whom Owner is responsible, delays, disrupts, or interferes with 
the performance or progress of the Work, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable 
adjustment in the Contract Times and Contract Price. Contractor’s entitlement to an 
adjustment of the Contract Times is conditioned on such adjustment being essential to 
Contractor’s ability to complete the Work within the Contract Times. 
B. 
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for 
delay, disruption, or interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or their 
subcontractors or suppliers. 
C. 
If Contractor’s performance or progress is delayed, disrupted, or interfered with by 
unanticipated causes not the fault of and beyond the control of Owner, Contractor, and those 
for which they are responsible, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable adjustment 
in Contract Times. 
D. 
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for any 
delay, disruption, or interference if such delay is concurrent with a delay, disruption, or 
interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or Contractor’s subcontractors or 
suppliers. 
4.04 
Progress Schedules 
A. 
Contractor shall develop a progress schedule and submit to the RPR for review and comment 
before starting Work on the Site. The Contractor shall modify the schedule in accordance 
with the comments provided by the RPR. 
B. 
The Contractor shall update and submit the progress schedule to the RPR each month. The 
Owner may withhold payment if the Contractor fails to submit the schedule. 
ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACT PRICE 
5.01 
Payment 
A. 
Owner shall pay Contractor in accordance with the Contract Documents, the lump sum 
amount of $212,828.37 for all Work. 
98 of 250

--- page 99 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 7 of 26 
B. 
For any additional Work authorized by Owner, Owner shall pay Contractor in an amount 
equal to the total of all extended prices for actual Work completed. The extended price is 
determined by multiplying the unit price in the National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task 
Catalog times the actual quantity of that Work item completed. Actual quantities installed 
will be determined by the RPR. 
ARTICLE 6 - BONDS AND INSURANCE 
6.01 
Bonds 
A. 
Before starting Work, Contractor shall furnish a performance bond and a payment bond from 
surety companies that are duly licensed or authorized to issue bonds in the required amounts 
in the jurisdiction in which the Project is located. Each bond shall be in an amount equal to 
the Contract Price, as security for the faithful performance and payment of all of Contractor’s 
obligations under the Contract. These bonds shall remain in effect until the completion of 
the correction period specified in Paragraph 7.12 but, in any case, not less than one year 
after the date when final payment becomes due. 
B. 
Performance by Sureties.  In the event of any termination, Owner shall immediately give 
written notice to Contractor and Contractor’s sureties, and the sureties shall have the right 
to take over and perform the Contract, provided, however, that if the sureties, within five 
days after giving them notice of said termination, do not give Owner written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within five days after notice, Owner may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall 
be liable to Owner for any excess cost or damages occasioned Owner thereby; and, in such 
event, Owner may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing 
the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as 
may be on the site of the work and necessary therefore 
6.02 
Insurance 
A. 
The Contractor shall procure and maintain the insurance specified in the Exhibit B of this 
Contract for the greater of (1) the duration of the contract plus a period of five (5) years after 
completion of the Project or (2) the duration shown in Exhibit B. 
ARTICLE 7 - CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES 
7.01 
Supervision and Superintendence 
A. 
Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work competently and efficiently, devoting such 
attention thereto and applying such skills and expertise as may be necessary to perform the 
Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. Contractor shall be solely responsible for 
the means, methods, techniques, sequences, safety, and procedures of construction. 
B. 
Contractor shall assign a competent resident superintendent who is to be present at all times 
during the execution of the Work. This resident superintendent shall not be replaced without 
written notice to and approval by the Owner and RPR except under extraordinary 
circumstances. 
C. 
Contractor shall at all times maintain good discipline and order at the Site. 
99 of 250

--- page 100 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 8 of 26 
D. 
Except as otherwise required for the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property 
at the Site or adjacent thereto, and except as otherwise stated in the Contract Documents, 
all Work at the Site shall be performed during regular working hours, Monday through Friday. 
7.02 
Other Work at the Site 
A. 
In addition to and apart from the Work of the Contractor, other work may occur at or 
adjacent to the Site. Contractor shall take reasonable and customary measures to avoid 
damaging, delaying, disrupting, or interfering with the work of Owner, any other contractor, 
or any utility owner performing other work at or adjacent to the Site. 
7.03 
Services, Materials, and Equipment 
A. 
Unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents, Contractor shall provide and assume 
full responsibility for all services, materials, equipment, labor, transportation, construction 
equipment and machinery, tools, appliances, fuel, power, light, heat, telephone, water, 
sanitary facilities, temporary facilities, and all other facilities and incidentals necessary for 
the performance, testing, start up, and completion of the Work, whether or not such items 
are specifically called for in the Contract Documents. 
B. 
All materials and equipment incorporated into the Work shall be new, of good quality and 
shall be stored, applied, installed, connected, erected, protected, used, cleaned, and 
conditioned in accordance with instructions of the applicable supplier, except as otherwise 
may be provided in the Contract Documents. 
7.04 
Subcontractors and Suppliers 
A. 
Contractor may retain subcontractors and suppliers for the performance of parts of the Work 
acceptable to Owner, provided that no work may be performed by a subcontractor who is 
debarred pursuant to Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7.  
7.05 
Quality Management 
A. 
Contractor is fully responsible for the managing quality to ensure Work is completed in 
accordance with the Contract Documents. 
7.06 
Licenses, Fees and Permits 
A. 
Contractor shall pay all license fees and royalties and assume all costs incident to performing 
the Work or the incorporation in the Work of any invention, design, process, product, or 
device which is the subject of patent rights or copyrights held by others. 
B. 
Contractor shall obtain and pay for all construction permits and licenses unless otherwise 
provided in the Contract Documents. 
7.07 
Laws and Regulations; Taxes 
A. 
Contractor shall give all notices required by and shall comply with all local, state, and federal 
Laws and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Except where otherwise 
expressly required by applicable Laws and Regulations, neither Owner nor RPR shall be 
responsible for monitoring Contractor’s compliance with any Laws or Regulations. 
B. 
Contractor shall bear all resulting costs and losses, and shall indemnify and hold harmless 
Owner and RPR, and the officers, directors, members, partners, employees, agents, 
consultants, and subcontractors of each and any of them from and against all claims, costs, 
100 of 250

--- page 101 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 9 of 26 
losses, and damages if Contractor performs any Work or takes any other action knowing or 
having reason to know that it is contrary to Laws or Regulations. 
C. 
Contractor shall pay all applicable sales, consumer, use, and other similar taxes Contractor is 
required to pay in accordance with Laws and Regulations. 
D. 
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 7103.5, the contractor offers and agrees to 
assign to the awarding body all rights, title, and interest in and to all causes of action it may 
have under Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. Sec. 15) or under the Cartwright Act 
(Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 16700) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Business and 
Professions Code), arising from purchases of goods, services, or materials pursuant to the 
public works contract or the subcontract.  This assignment shall be made and become 
effective at the time the awarding body tenders final payment to the contractor, without 
further acknowledgment by the parties.  
E. 
Contractor shall give notice of hazardous materials and certain changed conditions in jobs 
involving trenching more than four feet deep.   
F. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1773.2, contractor will make travel and subsistence 
payments as required by statute.   
G. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771, contractor must pay prevailing wages.  The 
prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations of the State of 
California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project.  Contractor shall also require any 
subcontractors who work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons 
performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least 
the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts 
and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work.  A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site.  It is understood that it is the responsibility of 
Contractor to determine the correct scale.  Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at 
the City Clerk’s office; however, errors or defects in the materials in the City Clerk’s office will 
not excuse a bidder’s failure to comply with the actual scale then in force.  In accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1775, the statutory provisions for failure to pay prevailing wages 
will be enforced. 
H. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1776, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to certified copies of payroll records.   
I. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1777.5, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to the employment of apprentices.   
J. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1810, eight hours labor constitutes a legal day’s work.  
Contractor shall not require more than eight hours’ labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar 
week from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such 
excess work is compensated for at not less than one and one-half times the basic rate of pay.  
Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to Owner the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman, 
or mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any 
subcontractor, for each calendar day during which such laborer, workman, or mechanic is 
required or permitted to labor more than eight hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in 
any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Section 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of 
the Labor Code of the State of California.   
101 of 250

--- page 102 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 10 of 26 
K. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1813, the statutory provisions for penalties for failure 
to comply with wage and hour laws will be enforced.   
L. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1860, the contractor must secure the payment of 
workers’ compensation to its employees.   
M. In accordance with Labor Code Section 6705, the contractor must submit a detailed plan of 
the shoring and bracing for trenches five feet deep or more for contracts in excess of $25,000.   
N. In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, all contractors and 
subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations.  In 
accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4, the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and 
enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.   
7.08 
Record Documents 
A. 
Contractor shall maintain one printed record copy of all Drawings, Specifications, Addenda, 
Change Orders, Work Change Directives, Field Orders, written interpretations and 
clarifications, and approved shop drawings in a safe place at the Site. Contractor shall 
annotate them to show changes made during construction. Contractor shall deliver these 
record documents to RPR upon completion of the Work. 
7.09 
Safety and Protection 
A. 
Contractor shall be solely responsible for initiating, maintaining, and supervising all safety 
precautions and programs in connection with the Work. 
B. 
Contractor shall take all necessary precautions for the safety of, and shall provide the 
necessary protection to prevent damage, injury, or loss to: 
1. 
All persons on the Site or who may be affected by the Work; 
2. 
All the Work and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in 
storage on or off the Site; and 
3. 
Other property at the Site or adjacent thereto, including trees, shrubs, lawns, walks, 
pavements, roadways, structures, other work in progress, utilities, and underground 
facilities not designated for removal, relocation, or replacement in the course of 
construction. 
C. 
All damage, injury, or loss to any property caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
by Contractor, or anyone for whose acts the Contractor may be liable, shall be remedied by 
Contractor at its expense (except damage or loss attributable to the fault of Contract 
Documents or to the acts or omissions of Owner or RPR and not attributable, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, to the fault or negligence of Contractor). 
D. 
Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating any exchange of material safety data sheets 
or other hazard communication information required to be made available to or exchanged 
between or among employers at the Site in accordance with Laws or Regulations. 
E. 
In emergencies affecting the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property at the 
Site or adjacent thereto, Contractor shall act to prevent threatened damage, injury, or loss. 
Contractor shall give RPR prompt written notice if Contractor believes that any significant 
changes in the Work or variations from the Contract Documents have been caused thereby 
or are required as a result thereof. If RPR determines that a change in the Contract 
102 of 250

--- page 103 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 11 of 26 
Documents is required because of the action taken by Contractor in response to such an 
emergency, a Work Change Directive or Change Order will be issued. 
7.10 
Shop Drawings, Samples, and Other Submittals 
A. 
Contractor shall review and coordinate the shop drawing and samples with the requirements 
of the Work and the Contract Documents and shall verify all related field measurements, 
quantities, dimensions, specified performance and design criteria, installation requirements, 
materials, catalog numbers, and similar information. 
B. 
Each submittal shall bear a stamp or specific written certification that Contractor has satisfied 
Contractor’s obligations under the Contract Documents with respect to Contractor’s review 
of that submittal, and that Contractor approves the submittal. 
C. 
With each submittal, Contractor shall give RPR specific written notice, in a communication 
separate from the submittal, of any variations that the shop drawing or sample may have 
from the requirements of the Contract Documents. 
D. 
RPR will provide timely review of shop drawings and samples. 
E. 
RPR’s review and approval will not extend to means, methods, techniques, sequences, or 
procedures of construction or to safety precautions or programs. 
F. 
RPR’s review and approval of a separate item does not indicate approval of the assembly in 
which the item functions. 
G. Contractor shall make corrections required by RPR and shall return the required number of 
corrected copies of shop drawings and submit, as required, new samples for review and 
approval. Contractor shall direct specific attention in writing to revisions other than the 
corrections called for by RPR on previous submittals. 
H. 
Shop drawings are not Contract Documents. 
7.11 
Warranties and Guarantees 
A. 
Contractor warrants and guarantees to Owner that all Work will be in accordance with the 
Contract Documents and will not be defective. RPR and its officers, directors, members, 
partners, employees, agents, consultants, and subcontractors shall be entitled to rely on 
Contractor’s warranty and guarantee. 
7.12 
Correction Period 
A. 
If within one year after the date of substantial completion, any Work is found to be defective, 
or if the repair of any damages to the Site, adjacent areas that Contractor has arranged to 
use through construction easements or otherwise, and other adjacent areas used by 
Contractor as permitted by Laws and Regulations, is found to be defective, then Contractor 
shall promptly and without cost to Owner, correct such defective Work. 
7.13 
Indemnification 
A. 
To the fullest extent permitted by Laws and Regulations, and in addition to any other 
obligations of Contractor under the Contract or otherwise, Contractor shall indemnify and 
hold harmless Owner and RPR, and the officials, employees, and agents, of each and any of 
them from and against all claims, costs, losses, and damages (including but not limited to all 
fees and charges of RPR, architects, attorneys, and other professionals and all court or 
arbitration or other dispute resolution costs) arising out of or relating to the performance of 
103 of 250

--- page 104 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 12 of 26 
the Work.  Contractor will defend Owner, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents against any such claims.  However, this provision does not apply to claims, loss, 
liability, damage, or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the 
Owner 
ARTICLE 8 - OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES 
8.01 
Owner’s Responsibilities 
A. 
Except as otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, Owner shall issue all 
communications to Contractor through RPR. 
B. 
Owner shall make payments to Contractor as provided in this Contract. 
C. 
Owner shall provide Site and easements required to construct the Project. 
D. 
If Owner intends to contract with others for the performance of other work at or adjacent to 
the Site, unless stated elsewhere in the Contract Documents, Owner shall have sole authority 
and responsibility for such coordination. 
E. 
The Owner shall be responsible for performing inspections and tests required by applicable 
codes. 
F. 
The Owner shall not supervise, direct, or have control or authority over, nor be responsible 
for, Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or 
the safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws 
and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Owner will not be responsible 
for Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. 
G. While at the Site, Owner’s employees and representatives shall comply with the specific 
applicable requirements of Contractor’s safety programs of which Owner has been informed. 
H. 
Owner shall furnish copies of any applicable Owner safety programs to Contractor. 
I. 
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 9201, Owner shall give contractor timely 
notification of the receipt of any third-party claims relating to the contract.  
ARTICLE 9 - RPR’S STATUS DURING CONSTRUCTION 
9.01 
RPR’s Status 
A. 
RPR will be Owner’s representative during construction. The duties and responsibilities and 
the limitations of authority of RPR as Owner’s representative during construction are set 
forth in this Contract. 
B. 
Neither RPR’s authority or responsibility under this Article 9 or under any other provision of 
the Contract, nor any decision made by RPR in good faith either to exercise or not exercise 
such authority or responsibility or the undertaking, exercise, or performance of any authority 
or responsibility by RPR, shall create, impose, or give rise to any duty in contract, tort, or 
otherwise owed by RPR to Contractor, any subcontractor, any supplier, any other individual 
or entity, or to any surety for or employee or agent of any of them. 
C. 
RPR will make visits to the Site at intervals appropriate to the various stages of construction. 
RPR will not be required to make exhaustive or continuous inspections on the Site to check 
the quality or quantity of the Work. 
104 of 250

--- page 105 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 13 of 26 
D. 
RPR has the authority to reject Work if Contractor fails to perform Work in accordance with 
the Contract Documents. 
E. 
RPR will render decisions regarding the requirements of the Contract Documents and judge 
the acceptability of the Work. 
F. 
RPR will not supervise, direct, control, or have authority over or be responsible for 
Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or the 
safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws and 
Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. RPR will not be responsible for 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. 
ARTICLE 10 - CHANGES IN THE WORK 
10.01 Authority to Change the Work 
A. 
Without invalidating the Contract and without notice to any surety, Owner may, at any time 
or from time to time, order additions, deletions, or revisions in the Work. 
10.02 Change Orders 
A. 
Owner and Contractor shall execute appropriate Change Orders covering: 
1. 
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times which are agreed to by the parties, 
including any undisputed sum or amount of time for Work actually performed in 
accordance with a Work Change Directive; 
2. 
Changes in the Work which are: (a) ordered by Owner or (b) agreed to by the parties or 
(c) resulting from the RPR’s decision, subject to the need for RPR’s recommendation if 
the change in the Work involves the design (as set forth in the Drawings, Specifications, 
or otherwise), or other engineering or technical matters; and 
3. 
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times or other changes which embody the 
substance of any final binding results under Article 12. 
B. 
If the provisions of any bond require notice to be given to a surety of any change affecting 
the general scope of the Work or the provisions of the Contract Documents (including, but 
not limited to, Contract Price or Contract Times), the giving of any such notice will be 
Contractor’s responsibility. The amount of each applicable bond will be adjusted to reflect 
the effect of any such change. 
ARTICLE 11 - DIFFERING SUBSURFACE OR PHYSICAL CONDITIONS 
11.01 Differing Conditions Process 
A. 
If Contractor believes that any subsurface or physical condition including but not limited to 
utilities or other underground facilities that are uncovered or revealed at the Site either 
differs materially from that shown or indicated in the Contract Documents or is of an unusual 
nature, and differs materially from conditions ordinarily encountered and generally 
recognized as inherent in Work of the character provided for in the Contract Documents then 
Contractor shall, promptly after becoming aware thereof and before further disturbing the 
subsurface or physical conditions or performing any Work in connection therewith (except 
in an emergency), notify Owner and RPR in writing about such condition. Contractor shall not 
further disturb such condition or perform any Work in connection therewith (except with 
105 of 250

--- page 106 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 14 of 26 
respect to an emergency) until receipt of a written statement permitting Contractor to do 
so. 
B. 
After receipt of written notice, RPR will promptly: 
1. 
Review the subsurface or physical condition in question; 
2. 
Determine necessity for Owner obtaining additional exploration or tests with respect to 
the condition; 
3. 
Determine whether the condition falls within the differing site condition as stated 
herein; 
4. 
Obtain any pertinent cost or schedule information from Contractor; 
5. 
Prepare recommendations to Owner regarding the Contractor’s resumption of Work in 
connection with the subsurface or physical condition in question and the need for any 
change in the Drawings or Specifications; and 
6. 
Advise Owner in writing of RPR’s findings, conclusions, and recommendations. 
C. 
After receipt of RPR’s written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, Owner shall issue 
a written statement to Contractor regarding the subsurface or physical condition in question, 
addressing the resumption of Work in connection with such condition, indicating whether 
any change in the Drawings or Specifications will be made, and adopting or rejecting RPR’s 
written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, in whole or in part. 
ARTICLE 12 - CLAIMS AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
12.01 Claims Process 
A. 
The party submitting a claim shall deliver it directly to the other party to the Contract and 
the RPR promptly (but in no event later than 10 days) after the start of the event giving rise 
thereto. 
B. 
The party receiving a claim shall review it thoroughly, giving full consideration to its merits. 
The two parties shall seek to resolve the claim through the exchange of information and 
direct negotiations. All actions taken on a claim shall be stated in writing and submitted to 
the other party. 
C. 
If efforts to resolve a claim are not successful, the party receiving the claim may deny it by 
giving written notice of denial to the other party. If the receiving party does not take action 
on the claim within 45 days, the claim is deemed denied. 
D. 
If the dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of the parties, Owner or Contractor shall give 
written notice to the other party of the intent to submit the dispute to a court of competent 
jurisdiction unless the Owner and Contractor both agree to an alternative dispute resolution 
process. 
12.02 Mediation 
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall 
be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be 
106 of 250

--- page 107 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 15 of 26 
selected by a blind draw.  The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither 
party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action 
without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated 
settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last 
until agreement is reach by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is 
extended by the parties. 
ARTICLE 13 - TESTS AND INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE WORK 
13.01 Tests and Inspections 
A. 
Owner and RPR will have access to the Site and the Work at reasonable times for their 
observation, inspection, and testing. Contractor shall provide them proper and safe 
conditions for such access. 
B. 
Contractor shall give RPR timely notice of readiness of the Work for all required inspections 
and tests and shall cooperate with inspection and testing personnel to facilitate required 
inspections and tests. 
C. 
If any Work that is to be inspected, tested, or approved is covered by Contractor without 
written concurrence of RPR, Contractor shall, if requested by RPR, uncover such Work for 
observation. Such uncovering shall be at Contractor’s expense. 
13.02 Defective Work 
A. 
Contractor shall ensure that the Work is not defective. 
B. 
RPR has the authority to determine whether Work is defective, and to reject defective Work. 
C. 
Prompt notice of all defective Work of which Owner or RPR has actual knowledge will be 
given to Contractor. 
D. 
The Contractor shall promptly correct all such defective Work. 
E. 
When correcting defective Work, Contractor shall take no action that would void or 
otherwise impair Owner’s special warranty and guarantee, if any, on said Work. 
F. 
If the Work is defective or Contractor fails to supply sufficient skilled workers or suitable 
materials or equipment, or fails to perform the Work in such a way that the completed Work 
will conform to the Contract Documents, then Owner may order Contractor to stop the Work, 
or any portion thereof, until the cause for such order has been eliminated. 
ARTICLE 14 - PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTOR 
14.01 Progress Payments 
A. 
The Contractor shall prepare a schedule of values that will serve as the basis for progress 
payments. The schedule of values will be in a form of application for payment acceptable to 
RPR. The unit price breakdown submitted with the bid will be used for unit price work. Break 
lump sum items into units that will allow for measurement of Work in progress. 
14.02 Applications for Payments: 
A. 
Contractor shall submit an application for payment in a form acceptable to the RPR, no more 
frequently than monthly, to RPR. Applications for payment will be prepared and signed by 
107 of 250

--- page 108 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 16 of 26 
Contractor. Contractor shall provide supporting documentation required by the Contract 
Documents. Payment will be paid for Work completed as of the date of the application for 
payment. 
B. 
Beginning with the second application for payment, each application shall include an affidavit 
of Contractor stating that all previous progress payments received on account of the Work 
have been applied on account to discharge Contractor’s legitimate obligations associated 
with prior applications for payment. 
14.03 Retainage 
A. 
The Owner shall retain 5% of each progress payment until the Work is substantially complete. 
14.04 Review of Applications 
A. 
Within 10 days after receipt of each application for payment, the RPR will either indicate in 
writing a recommendation for payment and present the application for payment to Owner 
or return the application for payment to Contractor indicating in writing RPR’s reasons for 
refusing to recommend payment. The Contractor will make the necessary corrections and 
resubmit the application for payment. 
B. 
RPR will recommend reductions in payment (set-offs) which, in the opinion of the RPR, are 
necessary to protect Owner from loss because the Work is defective and requires correction 
or replacement. 
C. 
The Owner is entitled to impose set-offs against payment based on any claims that have been 
made against Owner on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of the Work, 
incurred costs, losses, or damages on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of 
the Work, or liquidated damages that have accrued as a result of Contractor’s failure to 
complete the Work. 
14.05 Contractor’s Warranty of Title 
A. 
Contractor warrants and guarantees that title to all Work, materials, and equipment 
furnished under the Contract will pass to Owner free and clear of (1) all liens and other title 
defects, and (2) all patent, licensing, copyright, or royalty obligations, no later than seven 
days after the time of payment by Owner. 
14.06 Substantial Completion 
A. 
The Contractor shall notify Owner and RPR in writing that the Work is substantially complete 
and request the RPR issue a certificate of substantial completion when Contractor considers 
the Work ready for its intended use. Contractor shall at the same time submit to Owner and 
RPR an initial draft of punch list items to be completed or corrected before final payment. 
B. 
RPR will make an inspection of the Work with the Owner and Contractor to determine the 
status of completion. If RPR does not consider the Work substantially complete, RPR will 
notify Contractor and Owner in writing giving the reasons therefor. 
C. 
If RPR considers the Work substantially complete or upon resolution of all reasons for non-
issuance of a certificate identified in 14.06.B, RPR will deliver to Owner a certificate of 
substantial completion which shall fix the date of substantial completion and include a punch 
list of items to be completed or corrected before final payment. 
108 of 250

--- page 109 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 17 of 26 
14.07 Final Inspection 
A. 
Upon written notice from Contractor that the entire Work is complete, RPR will promptly 
make a final inspection with Owner and Contractor and will notify Contractor in writing of all 
particulars in which this inspection reveals that the Work, or agreed portion thereof, is 
incomplete or defective. Contractor shall immediately take such measures as are necessary 
to complete such Work or remedy such deficiencies. 
14.08 Final Payment 
A. 
Contractor may make application for final payment after Contractor has satisfactorily 
completed all Work defined in the Contract, including providing all maintenance and 
operating instructions, schedules, guarantees, bonds, certificates or other evidence of 
insurance, certificates of inspection, annotated record documents and other documents. 
B. 
The final application for payment shall be accompanied (except as previously delivered) by: 
1. 
All documentation called for in the Contract Documents; 
2. 
Consent of the surety to final payment; 
3. 
Satisfactory evidence that all title issues have been resolved such that title to all Work, 
materials, and equipment has passed to Owner free and clear of any liens or other title 
defects, or will so pass upon final payment; 
4. 
A list of all disputes that Contractor believes are unsettled; and 
5. 
Complete and legally effective releases or waivers (satisfactory to Owner) of all lien 
rights arising out of the Work, and of liens filed in connection with the Work. 
C. 
The Work is complete (subject to surviving obligations) when it is ready for final payment as 
established by the RPR’s written recommendation of final payment. 
14.09 Waiver of Claims 
A. 
The making of final payment will not constitute a waiver by Owner of claims or rights against 
Contractor. 
B. 
The acceptance of final payment by Contractor will constitute a waiver by Contractor of all 
claims and rights against Owner other than those pending matters that have been duly 
submitted. 
ARTICLE 15 - SUSPENSION OF WORK AND TERMINATION 
15.01 Owner May Suspend Work 
A. 
At any time and without cause, Owner may suspend the Work or any portion thereof for a 
period of not more than 60 consecutive days by written notice to Contractor and RPR. Such 
notice will fix the date on which Work will be resumed. Contractor shall resume the Work on 
the date so fixed. Contractor shall be entitled to an adjustment in the Contract Price or an 
extension of the Contract Times, or both, directly attributable to any such suspension. 
15.02 Owner May Terminate for Cause 
A. 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents or 
other failure to comply with a material term of the Contract Documents will constitute a 
default by Contractor and justify termination for cause. 
109 of 250

--- page 110 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 18 of 26 
B. 
If Contractor defaults in its obligations, then after giving Contractor and any surety ten days 
written notice that Owner is considering a declaration that Contractor is in default and 
termination of the Contract, Owner may proceed to: 
1. 
Declare Contractor to be in default, and give Contractor and any surety notice that the 
Contract is terminated; and 
2. 
Enforce the rights available to Owner under any applicable performance bond. 
C. 
Owner may not proceed with termination of the Contract under Paragraph 15.02.B if 
Contractor within seven days of receipt of notice of intent to terminate begins to correct its 
failure to perform and proceeds diligently to cure such failure. 
D. 
Subject to the terms and operation of any applicable performance bond, if Owner has 
terminated the Contract for cause, Owner may exclude Contractor from the Site, take 
possession of the Work, incorporate in the Work all materials and equipment stored at the 
Site or for which Owner has paid Contractor but which are stored elsewhere, and complete 
the Work as Owner may deem expedient. 
E. 
In the case of a termination for cause, if the cost to complete the Work, including related 
claims, costs, losses, and damages, exceeds the unpaid contract balance, Contractor shall pay 
the difference to Owner. 
15.03 Owner May Terminate for Convenience 
A. 
Upon seven days written notice to Contractor, Owner may, without cause and without 
prejudice to any other right or remedy of Owner, terminate the Contract. In such case, 
Contractor shall be paid for, without duplication of any items: 
1. 
Completed and acceptable Work executed in accordance with the Contract Documents 
prior to the effective date of termination, including fair and reasonable sums for 
overhead and profit on such Work; 
2. 
Expenses sustained prior to the effective date of termination in performing services and 
furnishing labor, materials, or equipment as required by the Contract Documents in 
connection with uncompleted Work, plus fair and reasonable sums for overhead and 
profit on such expenses; and 
3. 
Other reasonable expenses directly attributable to termination, including costs incurred 
to prepare a termination for convenience cost proposal. 
B. 
Contractor shall not be paid on account of loss of anticipated overhead, profits, or revenue, 
or other economic loss arising out of or resulting from such termination. 
ARTICLE 16 - CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS 
16.01 Contractor Representations 
A. 
Contractor makes the following representations when entering into this Contract: 
1. 
Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents, and any data 
and reference items identified in the Contract Documents. 
2. 
Contractor has visited the Site, conducted a thorough visual examination of the Site and 
adjacent areas, and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the general, local, and 
Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work. 
110 of 250

--- page 111 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 19 of 26 
3. 
Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all Laws and Regulations that may affect 
cost, progress, and performance of the Work. 
4. 
Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor itself; information 
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information 
and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and the Site-
related reports and drawings identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to the 
effect of such information, observations, and documents on: 
a. 
The cost, progress, and performance of the Work; 
b. 
The means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be 
employed by Contractor; and 
c. 
Contractor’s safety precautions and programs. 
5. 
Based on the information and observations referred to in the preceding paragraph, 
Contractor agrees that no further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, 
studies, or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, 
within the Contract Times, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of 
the Contract. 
6. 
Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and others 
at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents. 
7. 
Contractor has given RPR written notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or 
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, and the 
written resolution thereof by RPR is acceptable to Contractor. 
8. 
The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey understanding 
of all terms and conditions for performance and furnishing of the Work. 
9. 
Contractor’s entry into this Contract constitutes an incontrovertible representation by 
Contractor that, without exception, all prices in the Contract are premised upon 
performing and furnishing the Work required by the Contract Documents. 
ARTICLE 17 - MISCELLANEOUS 
17.01 Cumulative Remedies 
A. 
The duties and obligations imposed by this Contract and the rights and remedies available 
hereunder to the parties hereto are in addition to, and are not to be construed in any way as 
a limitation of, any rights and remedies available to any or all of them which are otherwise 
imposed or available by Laws or Regulations, by special warranty or guarantee, or by other 
provisions of the Contract. The provisions of this paragraph will be as effective as if repeated 
specifically in the Contract Documents in connection with each particular duty, obligation, 
right, and remedy to which they apply. 
17.02 Limitation of Damages 
A. 
Neither Owner, RPR, nor any of their officers, directors, members, partners, employees, 
agents, consultants, or subcontractors, shall be liable to Contractor for any claims, costs, 
losses, or damages sustained by Contractor on or in connection with any other project or 
anticipated project. 
111 of 250

--- page 112 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 20 of 26 
17.03 No Waiver 
A. 
A party’s non-enforcement of any provision shall not constitute a waiver of that provision, 
nor shall it affect the enforceability of that provision or of the remainder of this Contract. 
17.04 Survival of Obligations 
A. 
All representations, indemnifications, warranties, and guarantees made in, required by, or 
given in accordance with the Contract, as well as all continuing obligations indicated in the 
Contract, will survive final payment, completion, and acceptance of the Work or termination 
or completion of the Contract or termination of the services of Contractor. 
17.05 Contractor’s Certifications 
A. 
Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive 
practices in competing for or in executing the Contract. 
17.06 Controlling Law and Venue 
A. 
This Contract is to be governed by the law of the state of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.   
17.07 Notices 
A. 
All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person, or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid.  Notices required to be given to Owner or Contractor shall be addressed as 
appears in the signature block at the end of this Contract. 
17.08 No Partnership or Agency 
A. 
Nothing in this Contract nor in the contract documents shall be deemed to constitute a 
partnership in law between Owner and Contractor, or any subcontractor, to constitute either 
party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or bind 
the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.  
17.09 Severability 
A. 
If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and 
void, the parties would not have entered into the contract documents.  The parties shall use 
all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.  
17.10 Waiver 
A. 
None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the Owner, or any right to damages herein provided:  1) 
inspection by the Owner or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or 
certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any party of the 
work by the Owner; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the Owner or its 
authorized agents or representatives.  
112 of 250

--- page 113 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 21 of 26 
17.11 Warranty 
A. 
Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be at 
least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of 
commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity,, 
that the work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform 
to the requirements of the contract documents.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Contract. 
This Contract will be effective on __________________ (which is the Effective Date of the Contract). 
OWNER: 
 CONTRACTOR: 
 
 
 
By: 
Azalea Mitch 
 By: 
Eric Newton 
Title: 
Director of Public Works 
 Title: 
President 
 
 
Address for giving notices: 
 Address for giving notices: 
330 West 20th Avenue 
 
2436 Broad Street 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
San Luis Obispo, CA 93401 
 
 
 
 
 License No.: 
CA License # 783608 
 
 
 
(where applicable) 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
113 of 250

--- page 114 ---
EXHIBIT A 
CONTRACTOR’S PROPOSAL 
  
 
 
114 of 250

--- page 115 ---
Work Order Signature Document
EZIQC Contract No.:  CA-07-CC-B-A-030618-NCM
Indian Springs Improvements
New Work Order
099235.00
Modify an Existing Work Order
Work Order Title: 
Work Order Number.:
Work Order Date:
X
02/15/2022
Contractor Name:
Contact:
Phone:
Contact:
Phone:
Darin Terrazas
805-544-5583
Owner Name:
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
Steve Wu
(650)8238331
Newton Construction & Management, Inc.
Work to be Performed
Work to be performed as per the Final Detailed Scope of Work Attached and as per the terms and conditions of 
Sourcewell EZIQC Contract No CA-07-CC-B-A-030618-NCM. 
Brief Work Order Description:
Indian Springs Improvements
Will not apply:
Liquidated Damages
Will apply:
Estimated Completion Date:  
Estimated Start Date:  
Time of Performance
X
Work Order Firm Fixed Price: $212,828.37
Owner Purchase Order Number:  
Approvals
Date
Date
Contractor
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
 2.00
Page 1 of 1
2/15/2022
Work Order Signature Document
115 of 250

--- page 116 ---
3.00
Detailed Scope of Work
Steve Wu
Darin Terrazas
To:
From:
Newton Construction & Management
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
2436 Broad St
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Luis Obispo, CA 93401
San Mateo, CA 94403
805-544-5583
(650)8238331
Work Order Number:
February 15, 2022
Date Printed: 
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Work Order Title:
Brief Scope:
Indian Springs Improvements
Revised
Final
Preliminary
X
The following items detail the scope of work as discussed at the site. All requirements necessary to accomplish the items 
set forth below shall be considered part of this scope of work.
See attached &
DETAILED SCOPE OF WORK:
REMOVE ALL PLUMBING FIXTURES
REMOVE ALL TOILET PARTITIONS
REMOVE ALL ACCESSORIES
REMOVE CEILING MOUNTED LIGHT FIXTURES
REMOVE LOCK TIMERS AT DOORS, WITH  ASSOCIATED WIRING & CONDUIT
REMOVE DOOR & JAMB  ACCESSIBILITY SIGNAGE
REMOVE DOORS, FRAMES & LOCKSETS
REMOVE EXISTING EXTERIOR DRINKING FOUNTAIN
PREPARE DOORS, FLOOR, CEILING & WALLS FOR NEW FINISHES
NEW WALL FINISH(Neolith) – (3/16” THICK, ROSEWOOD, 4’ x 8’ VARIA ECORESIN PANEL 
SUBSTITUTED)
NEW FLOOR & CURB  FINISH(Epoxy)
NEW CAST CONCRETE SINK(Sonoma Cast Stone) ON METAL PEDESTAL – (BRADLEY MG-2 
SUBSTITUTED)
NEW TOILETS(3)(Toto) WITH FLUSH VALVE(Toto EcoPower TET2LN32 or TET3LN32) & WALL 
CLEANOUTS
NEW URINAL(1)(Toto) WITH FLUSH VALVE(Toto EcoPower TEU2LN21 or TEU3LN21)
NEW TOILET PARTITIONS
NEW ACCESSORIES – Faucets(2)(Sloan Optima ESD-30880-BDT), Soap Dispensers(2)(Sloan Optima 
ESD-30880-BDT), Hand Dryer(2)(Bradley)(DYSON AIRBLADE AB14 SUBSTITUTED), Stainless Steel 
Mirror(2)(Bradley), Seat Cover Dispenser(3)(Bradley), Waste Receptacle(2)(Bradley), 2-Roll Toilet Paper 
Page 1 of 3
2/15/2022
Scope of Work
116 of 250

--- page 117 ---
Detailed Scope of Work Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Dispensers(3)(The Park Catalog),
              2-36” Grab bars & 2-48” Grab Bars(Bradley)
NEW BOTTLE FILLER(Elkay)(FILTRINE FC-107-14-HL-VP SUBSTITUTED)
NEW PAINT INTERIOR & EXTERIOR(Kelly Moore)
NEW DOOR & JAMB ACCESSIBLE RESTROOM SIGNAGE
NEW DOORS, FRAMES, & LOCKSETS(Schlage) The specifications are as follows:
·
Lever Hardware *:   Schlage (now owned by Allegion) Storeroom Function Lockset Cylinder Hardware (or 
do you want mortise?)
Model ND80PD X Rhodes style lever (RHO) X 626 Satin Chrome Finish.
Storeroom function is always locked on outside but openable with key, inside lever always free to exit.
By using this function, the door hardware will automatically be locked when the electric strike is engaged.  This is the 
same concept used at the City Hall Atrium Restrooms.
A deadbolt with key operation on both sides of the door is also being specified to allow maintenance crews to lock 
off the door in the event the facility needs to be repaired, cleaned, etc. during operational hours.
This deadbolt works independently of the electric lock system.
·
Electric Strike:  Von Duprin (now owned by Allegion) Heavy Duty Electric Strike
Model 6400, for mortise or cylindrical hardware.
Continuous power is provided by the Power Supply.  A low voltage charge keeps the strike retracted allowing entry.  
When power is cut off, the strike engages locking the door hardware bolt.
·
Power Supply:  Schlage Power Supply, 2 Amps Constant Output
Model PS902, with 900-BBK Battery Backup Kit (if desired)
Module provides constant power to the electric strike.  The module is on a timer so entry to the facility is regulated as 
desired.
·
Timer *:  Intermatic Astronomic 7-Day programmable electronic timer, indoor rated metal housing.
Model Options:  ET 8215C 2-circuit or ET 2845C 4-circuit (three circuit models are not available).
Number of circuits will depend on how the Department wants to configure indoor lighting, exterior lighting and door 
operation.
Or - door hardware power supply can have a separate timer.
 
* symbol = specification is already on the permit/pricing set.
 
 
NEW COVER PLATE AT C.M.U. OPENINGS
NEW VANDAL RESISTANT LED CEILING MOUNTED LIGHT FIXTURES & MOTION SENSOR 
CONTROLS AND WIRING AS NEEDED
Subject to the terms and conditions of JOC Contract CA-07-CC-B-A-030618-NCM.
Page 2 of 3
2/15/2022
Scope of Work
117 of 250

--- page 118 ---
Detailed Scope of Work Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Contractor
Date
Date
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
Page 3 of 3
2/15/2022
Scope of Work
118 of 250

--- page 119 ---
4.00
Contractor's Price Proposal - Summary
Owner PO #:
Indian Springs Improvements
099235.00
CA-07-CC-B-A-030618-NCM
IQC Master Contract #:
Work Order #:
Title:
Re:
February 15, 2022
Date:
Proposal Value:
Contractor: 
Newton Construction & Management, Inc.
$212,828.37
$10,891.90
Accessories
$4,581.43
Bond
$5,181.67
Demo
$4,810.67
Door Hardware
$6,940.45
Doors
$9,029.81
Electrical
$1,797.24
Fence
$10,948.10
Flooring
$15,764.54
Paint
$21,539.61
Partitions
$37,140.68
Plumbing
$84,202.27
Wainscot
Proposal Total
Thisl total represents the correct total for the proposal.  Any discrepancy between line totals, 
sub-totals and the proposal total is due to rounding.
$212,828.37
Page 1 of 1
2/15/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Summary
119 of 250

--- page 120 ---
5.00
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
Indian Springs Improvements
099235.00
CA-07-CC-B-A-030618-NCM
IQC Master Contract #:
Work Order #:
Owner PO #:
Title:
Re:
February 15, 2022
Date:
Proposal Value:
Contractor: 
Newton Construction & Management, Inc.
$212,828.37
(Excludes)
Equip.
Material
Labor
Line Total
Description
UOM
Mod.
Item
Sect.
Accessories
10  28   13   13 0046
Two Roll, Surface Mounted, Stainless Steel Toilet Tissue Dispenser (Bobrick 
Contura B-4288)
1
$347.82
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 347.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 136.72
 1.2720
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0092
Partition Mounted, Stainless Steel Seat Cover And Toilet Tissue Dispenser With 
Sanitary Napkin Disposal (Bobrick B-357)
2
$1,284.21
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,284.21
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 504.80
 1.2720
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0100
20 Gallon, Surface Mounted, Stainless Steel Waste Receptacle (Bobrick 
B-275)
3
$849.34
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 849.34
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 333.86
 1.2720
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0144
36" Length, 1-1/2" Diameter, Stainless Steel Grab Bar (Bobrick B-6806x36)
4
$215.55
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 215.55
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 84.73
 1.2720
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0146
48" Length, 1-1/2" Diameter, Stainless Steel Grab Bar (Bobrick B-6806x48)
5
$230.89
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 230.89
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 90.76
 1.2720
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0222
Surface Mounted, Automatic Sensor, Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene (ABS) 
Polycarbonate Cover Hand Dryer (Dyson Airblade AB14)
6
$3,930.81
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 3,930.81
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,545.13
 1.2720
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0306
1-1/4" Diameter, Satin Stainless Steel Drinking Fountain Grab Bars
7
$406.20
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 406.20
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 159.67
 1.2720
 2.00
10  28   13   13 0359
24" x 36", Surface Mounted, Fixed-Position Tilt, Stainless Steel Frame Glass 
Mirror (Bobrick B-293 2436)
8
$813.62
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 813.62
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 319.82
 1.2720
 2.00
22  42   39   00 0179
Electronic Soap Dispenser And Faucet Combination (Sloan Optima 
ESD-30880-BDT)
9
$2,813.46
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,813.46
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,105.92
 1.2720
 2.00
$10,891.90
Subtotal for Accessories
Bond
Page 1 of 9
2/15/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
120 of 250

--- page 121 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Bond
01  22   16   00 0002
Reimbursable FeesReimbursable Fees will be paid to the contractor for eligible 
costs.  The base cost of the Reimbursable Fee is $1.00. Insert the appropriate 
quantity to adjust the base cost to the actual Reimbursable Fee (e.g. quantity 
of 125 = $125.00 Reimbursable Fee). If there are multiple Reimbursable Fees, 
list each one separately and add a comment in the "note" block to identify the 
Reimbursable Fee (e.g. sidewalk closure, road cut, various permits, extended 
warrantee, expedited shipping costs, etc.). A copy of each receipt shall be 
submitted with the Price Proposal.
10
$4,581.43
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,581.43
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.00
 1.1000
 4,164.94
2% Bond fee.
$4,581.43
Subtotal for Bond
Demo
01  74   19   00 0014
20 CY Dumpster (3 Ton) "Construction Debris"Includes delivery of dumpster, 
rental cost, pick-up cost, hauling, and disposal fee. Non-hazardous material.
11
$1,682.14
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,682.14
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 661.22
 1.2720
 2.00
02  41   16   13 0003
Up To 2,000 SF Commercial Building Interior Demolition, Gutting And Placing 
Into Dumpster Or Truck
12
$3,499.53
GSF
Installation
=
x
x
 3,499.53
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 9.05
 1.2720
 304.00
Demo/Removal of all existing partitions, equipment, sinks, toilets, urinals, and accessories.
$5,181.67
Subtotal for Demo
Door Hardware
08  71   23   00 2322
Extra Heavy Duty Cylindrical Storeroom Or Closet Lockset F86Satin chrome 
plated US26D (BHMA 626) - BHMA 156.2-1989, Grade 1(Corbin Russwin CL 
3300).
13
$1,260.92
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,260.92
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 330.43
 1.2720
 3.00
Specified door hardware.
08  71   23   00 2465
Double Cylinder Deadbolt, Key Both SidesCylindrical, ANSI Grade 1, 
interchangeable core, bright brass or satin chromium finish.
14
$575.83
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 575.83
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 150.90
 1.2720
 3.00
Specified door hardware.
08  71   23   00 2488
Stainless Steel Body Electric Strike (Von Duprin 6215)
15
$2,059.27
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,059.27
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 539.64
 1.2720
 3.00
Specified door hardware.
08  71   23   00 2551
2 Amp Output Current, 12-24 Volt DC, 4 Relay with Fire Alarm (Schlage 
PS902)
16
$340.20
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 340.20
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 267.45
 1.2720
 1.00
Specified door hardware.
23  09   23   00 0260
Astronomical Clock Program, Lighting Programming Measures
17
$574.45
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 574.45
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 451.61
 1.2720
 1.00
Specified door hardware.
$4,810.67
Subtotal for Door Hardware
Page 2 of 9
2/15/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
121 of 250

--- page 122 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Doors
08  12   13   13 0074
3' x 6'-8" Through 7'-2" High, 6-3/4" Deep, 16 Gauge, Knock Down Hollow 
Metal Door Frame
18
$1,906.44
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,555.86
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 407.72
 1.2720
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 350.58
 91.87
 1.2720
 3.00
08  13   13   13 0073
3' x 7' x 1-3/4", 18 Gauge, Unrated, Hollow Metal Door
19
$1,734.41
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,524.07
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 399.39
 1.2720
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 210.34
 55.12
 1.2720
 3.00
08  71   23   00 0021
5" x 4" Standard Duty, Half Surface, Ball Bearing, Brass/Bronze, Satin 
Chrome Finish Hinge
20
$660.85
PR
Installation
=
x
x
 660.85
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 173.18
 1.2720
 3.00
08  71   23   00 0618
Heavy Duty, Surface Mounted, Dark Bronze Finish, Overhead Door 
Holder/Stop (Glynn Johnson 90)
21
$881.75
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 881.75
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 346.60
 1.2720
 2.00
08  71   23   00 2094
8" x 16", Satin Finish, Stainless Steel Push Plate Door Hardware
22
$149.70
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 149.70
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 39.23
 1.2720
 3.00
08  71   23   00 2117
Anti-Vandal Pull With Astragal (Trimco 1096HA)
23
$632.08
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 632.08
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 165.64
 1.2720
 3.00
08  71   23   00 2270
Surface Mounted Heavy Duty Door Closer (LCN 4040XP/4041 Series)
24
$975.22
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 975.22
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 383.34
 1.2720
 2.00
$6,940.45
Subtotal for Doors
Electrical
22  42   43   00 0026
6 Volt DC, 120 Volt AC Hardwired Power Transformer (Sloan EL-451)
25
$204.21
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 204.21
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 80.27
 1.2720
 2.00
26  05   29   00 0167
1/2", One Hole Steel Conduit Strap
26
$204.79
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 204.79
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.22
 1.2720
 50.00
26  05   29   00 0167
0090
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
27
$55.33
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 55.33
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.87
 1.2720
 50.00
26  05   29   00 0167
0091
For Installation On Concrete (Includes Drilling And Fastener), Add
28
$52.15
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 52.15
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.82
 1.2720
 50.00
26  05   33   13 0003
1/2" Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) With 3 #12 THHN/THWN AssemblyIncludes 
conduit, set screw connectors, set screw couplings, straps, wire as 
indicated. Not for use where detail is available.
29
$2,466.32
CLF
Installation
=
x
x
 2,466.32
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 646.31
 1.2720
 3.00
26  05   33   13 0003
0011
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
30
$659.21
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 659.21
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 172.75
 1.2720
 3.00
Page 3 of 9
2/15/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
122 of 250

--- page 123 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Electrical
26  05   33   13 0576
1/2" Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) Conduit
31
$1,349.34
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,349.34
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.08
 1.2720
 260.00
26  05   33   16 0005
3-1/2" Depth, 4" Square Steel Box
32
$240.64
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 240.64
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 31.53
 1.2720
 6.00
26  09   23   00 0125
Electronic Timeclock, 365-Day Single Channel For LightingIncluding indoor 
rated enclosure, terminations, 3-pole contactor.
33
$501.59
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 501.59
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 394.33
 1.2720
 1.00
26  51   13   00 0404
4,600 Lumens, 2' x 4', Surface Mount, Shadow Box Style LED Fixture 
(Lithonia 2SBSLX4)
34
$1,394.75
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,394.75
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 548.25
 1.2720
 2.00
26  56   23   00 0236
8,000 Lumens, 82 System Watts, Surface Mount, Square, LED Canopy/Soffit 
Fixture (CREE® BetaLED® CPY250)
35
$756.73
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 756.73
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 594.91
 1.2720
 1.00
27  14   13   16 0037
2 Pair #18 AWG, Solid, Shielded, Low Voltage, Placed In Conduit, Alarm And 
Communications Cable
36
$1,144.75
MLF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,144.75
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,499.93
 1.2720
 0.60
$9,029.81
Subtotal for Electrical
Fence
01  56   26   00 0005
Temporary 6' High Chain Link Fence And Posts, Up To 6 Months
37
$724.53
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 724.53
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.56
 1.2720
 160.00
Requested by owner.
01  56   26   00 0005
0057
For >100 To 250, Deduct
38
-$36.63
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
-36.63
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
-0.18
 1.2720
 160.00
01  56   26   00 0005
0061
For Shade Cloth, Add
39
$518.98
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 518.98
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.55
 1.2720
 160.00
01  56   26   00 0034
10' Wide, 6' High, Temporary Chain Link Fence Gate, Up To 6 Months
40
$415.74
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 415.74
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 326.84
 1.2720
 1.00
Requested by owner.
01  56   26   00 0158
Temporary Chain Link Fence Panels (Portable) SandbagIncludes placement 
and removal.
41
$174.62
BAG
Installation
=
x
x
 174.62
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 5.72
 1.2720
 24.00
Requested by owner.
$1,797.24
Subtotal for Fence
Flooring
Page 4 of 9
2/15/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
123 of 250

--- page 124 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Flooring
03  35   43   00 0002
Mechanically Grind Concrete Floor With 40 Grit Metal Bonded Diamond Wheels
42
$536.53
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 536.53
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.11
 1.2720
 380.00
Surface Prep.
09  67   29   00 0007
Epoxy Flooring Trowel Applied Mortar Compound, 3/8", Chemical Resistant 
(10,000 - 12,000 PSI)
43
$8,598.97
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 8,598.97
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 17.79
 1.2720
 380.00
09  67   29   00 0007
0174
For Skid Resistant, Orange Peel Texture, Non-Abrasive Topping, Add
44
$48.34
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 48.34
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.10
 1.2720
 380.00
09  67   29   00 0007
0175
For Up To 500, Add
45
$1,764.26
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 1,764.26
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.65
 1.2720
 380.00
$10,948.10
Subtotal for Flooring
Paint
09  91   13   00 0003
Paint Exterior Brick Walls, 1 Coat Filler, Brush Work
46
$718.02
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 718.02
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.84
 1.2720
 672.00
09  91   13   00 0005
Paint Exterior Brick Walls, 2 Coats Paint, Brush Work
47
$1,478.78
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,478.78
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.73
 1.2720
 672.00
09  91   13   00 0107
Paint Exterior Wood Rough (Shingles, Shakes Or Rough Sawn) Siding, 1 Coat 
Primer, Brush Work
48
$594.07
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 594.07
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.39
 1.2720
 336.00
09  91   13   00 0109
Paint Exterior Wood Rough (Shingles, Shakes Or Rough Sawn) Siding, 2 
Coats Paint, Brush Work
49
$1,111.22
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,111.22
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.60
 1.2720
 336.00
09  91   13   00 0159
Paint Exterior Wood Rough Ceiling, 1 Coat Primer, Brush Work
50
$632.54
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 632.54
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.48
 1.2720
 336.00
09  91   13   00 0161
Paint Exterior Wood Rough Ceiling, 2 Coats Paint, Brush Work
51
$1,153.96
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,153.96
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.70
 1.2720
 336.00
09  91   13   00 0224
Paint Exterior Metal Door Frame And Trim, 1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work
52
$67.47
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 67.47
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.04
 1.2720
 51.00
09  91   13   00 0226
Paint Exterior Metal Door Frame And Trim, 2 Coats Paint, Brush/Roller Work
53
$149.85
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 149.85
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.31
 1.2720
 51.00
09  91   13   00 0231
Paint Exterior Metal Door, Both Faces, 1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work
54
$270.86
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 270.86
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 70.98
 1.2720
 3.00
Page 5 of 9
2/15/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
124 of 250

--- page 125 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Paint
09  91   13   00 0233
Paint Exterior Metal Door, Both Faces, 2 Coats Paint, Brush/Roller Work
55
$479.71
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 479.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 125.71
 1.2720
 3.00
09  91   13   00 0302
Paint Fascia Board, 1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work
56
$64.11
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 64.11
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.60
 1.2720
 84.00
09  91   13   00 0304
Paint Fascia Board, 2 Coats Paint, Brush/Roller Work
57
$112.19
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 112.19
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.05
 1.2720
 84.00
09  91   13   00 0469
Paint Exterior Wood Trim, 1 Coat Primer, Brush Work
58
$297.04
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 297.04
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.39
 1.2720
 168.00
09  91   13   00 0471
Paint Exterior Wood Trim, 2 Coats Paint, Brush Work
59
$583.39
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 583.39
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.73
 1.2720
 168.00
09  91   23   00 0040
Paint Interior Concrete Block Walls, 1 Coat Filler, Brush Work
60
$287.78
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 287.78
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.01
 1.2720
 224.00
09  91   23   00 0042
Paint Interior Concrete Block Walls, 2 Coats Paint, Brush Work
61
$609.75
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 609.75
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.14
 1.2720
 224.00
09  91   23   00 0053
Paint Interior Concrete Block Walls, 1 Coat Bonding Agent, Brush
62
$943.32
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 943.32
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.03
 1.2720
 720.00
09  91   23   00 0115
Paint Interior Wood Wall Surfaces, 2 Coats Paint, Brush Work
63
$1,957.86
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,957.86
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.85
 1.2720
 832.00
09  91   23   00 0117
Paint Interior Wood Walls, 1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work
64
$761.98
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 761.98
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.72
 1.2720
 832.00
09  91   23   00 0187
Paint Interior Wood Smooth Ceiling, 1 Coat Primer, Brush Work
65
$421.49
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 421.49
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.09
 1.2720
 304.00
09  91   23   00 0189
Paint Interior Wood Smooth Ceiling, 2 Coats Paint, Brush Work
66
$800.44
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 800.44
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.07
 1.2720
 304.00
09  91   23   00 0197
Paint Interior Wood Beams, 1 Coat Primer, Brush Work
67
$784.57
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 784.57
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.20
 1.2720
 514.00
09  91   23   00 0199
Paint Interior Wood Beams, 2 Coats Paint, Brush Work
68
$1,484.14
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,484.14
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.27
 1.2720
 514.00
$15,764.54
Subtotal for Paint
Partitions
Page 6 of 9
2/15/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
125 of 250

--- page 126 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Partitions
10  21   13   19 0022
30" x 42" x 1", Wall Hung And Post Supported, Recycled Solid Plastic (HDPE), 
Urinal Screen
69
$1,232.75
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,232.75
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 484.57
 1.2720
 2.00
10  21   13   19 0022
0164
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Brackets, Add
70
$63.91
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 63.91
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 25.12
 1.2720
 2.00
10  21   13   19 0022
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
71
$547.01
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 547.01
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 215.02
 1.2720
 2.00
10  21   13   19 0072
60" x 60", Overhead Braced, Antimicrobial Solid Plastic (HDPE), One 
Compartment Corner Unit, Complete ADA Compliant Toilet Partition
72
$4,548.65
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,548.65
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,787.99
 1.2720
 2.00
10  21   13   19 0072
0162
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Hinges And Brackets, Add
73
$230.64
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 230.64
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 90.66
 1.2720
 2.00
10  21   13   19 0072
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
74
$2,392.68
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 2,392.68
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 940.52
 1.2720
 2.00
10  21   13   19 0077
60" x 78", Floor And Ceiling Anchored, Antimicrobial Solid Plastic (HDPE), One 
Compartment Corner Unit, Complete ADA Compliant Toilet Partition
75
$5,114.79
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 5,114.79
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2,010.53
 1.2720
 2.00
10  21   13   19 0077
0162
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Hinges And Brackets, Add
76
$230.64
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 230.64
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 90.66
 1.2720
 2.00
10  21   13   19 0077
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
77
$2,656.75
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 2,656.75
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,044.32
 1.2720
 2.00
10  21   13   19 0100
36" x 55" x 1", Antimicrobial Recycled Solid Plastic (HDPE), ADA Compliant 
Toilet Partition Door
78
$1,819.58
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,819.58
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 476.83
 1.2720
 3.00
10  21   13   19 0100
0163
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Hinge, Add
79
$154.24
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 154.24
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 40.42
 1.2720
 3.00
10  21   13   19 0100
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
80
$1,030.32
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 1,030.32
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 270.00
 1.2720
 3.00
10  21   13   19 0106
30" x 55" x 1", Antimicrobial Recycled Solid Plastic (HDPE), Toilet Partition 
Panel
81
$968.93
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 968.93
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 380.87
 1.2720
 2.00
10  21   13   19 0106
0164
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Brackets, Add
82
$63.91
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 63.91
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 25.12
 1.2720
 2.00
Page 7 of 9
2/15/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
126 of 250

--- page 127 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Partitions
10  21   13   19 0106
0168
For NFPA Class A, Add
83
$484.81
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 484.81
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 190.57
 1.2720
 2.00
$21,539.61
Subtotal for Partitions
Plumbing
02  41   19   13 0325
Core Drill Minimum ChargeFor projects where the total core drilling charge is 
less than the minimum charge, use task "Minimum Charge For Core Drilling" 
exclusively. Task "Minimum Charge For Core Drilling" should not be used in 
conjunction with any other tasks in this section. Does not apply to sections 
"Drilling In Concrete Per Inch Of Depth" or "Drilling In Brick Or Block Per Inch Of 
Depth".
84
$757.49
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 757.49
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 595.51
 1.2720
 1.00
New plumbing through concrete block.
12  31   16   00 0017
30" Stainless Steel Base Cabinet, No Doors, No Drawers
85
$4,948.61
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,948.61
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,945.21
 1.2720
 2.00
New Custom sink bases, as requested by owner.
22  11   19   00 0217
1/2" Inlets, 1/2" Outlet Sink/Faucet Point-Of-Use Thermostatic Mixing Valve 
(Bradley S59-2007)
86
$787.57
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 787.57
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 309.58
 1.2720
 2.00
22  13   13   00 0004
Wall Mounted Water Closet, Single Fixture Rough-In, Cast Iron Waste And Vent 
PipeIncludes cast iron waste and vent pipe and copper domestic supply. 
Excludes fixture, carrier and flush valve.
87
$3,280.35
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 3,280.35
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 859.63
 1.2720
 3.00
22  13   13   00 0006
Wall Mounted Urinal, Single Fixture Rough-In, Cast Iron Waste And Vent 
PipeIncludes cast iron waste and vent pipe and copper domestic supply. 
Excludes fixture, carrier and flush valve.
88
$511.50
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 511.50
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 402.12
 1.2720
 1.00
22  13   13   00 0007
Wall Mounted Lavatory, Single Fixture Rough-In, Cast Iron Waste And Vent 
PipeIncludes cast iron waste and vent pipe and copper domestic supply. 
Excludes fixture, carrier and faucet.
89
$1,203.44
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,203.44
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 473.05
 1.2720
 2.00
22  42   13   13 0017
Flush Valve Type, Blow Out, Wall Mounted, Wall Outlet, Handicap Accessible, 
Elongated Vitreous China Water Closet (Kohler® Stratton™)
90
$3,116.87
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 3,116.87
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 816.79
 1.2720
 3.00
22  42   13   16 0012
Washout, Wall Hung, Vitreous China Urinal (Zurn Z5798)
91
$644.69
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 644.69
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 506.83
 1.2720
 1.00
22  42   16   13 0048
2 Station, Solid Surface Multi-Station Lavatory System With Integral 
Sprayheads And Infrared Controls (Bradley MG-2)
92
$9,179.82
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 9,179.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3,608.42
 1.2720
 2.00
Page 8 of 9
2/15/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
127 of 250

--- page 128 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
Plumbing
22  42   43   00 0022
Concealed Infrared Water Closet Flush Valve, Top Spud 1.28 GPF (Toto 
EcoPower TET2LN32 Or TET3LN32)
93
$3,032.96
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 3,032.96
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 794.80
 1.2720
 3.00
22  42   43   00 0044
Concealed Infrared Urinal Flush Valve, 0.5 GPF (Toto EcoPower TEU2LN21 Or 
TEU3LN21)0.5 GPF.
94
$1,239.14
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,239.14
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 974.17
 1.2720
 1.00
22  47   13   00 0038
Vandal Proof Non-Recessed, Bilevel (High/Low) Stainless Steel Drinking 
Fountain With Bottle Filler (Filtrine FC-107-14-HL-VP)
95
$8,438.24
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 8,438.24
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 6,633.84
 1.2720
 1.00
$37,140.68
Subtotal for Plumbing
Wainscot
04  01   20   51 0002
Grind Smooth Masonry Wall
96
$2,857.42
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 2,857.42
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.12
 1.2720
 720.00
09  35   00   00 0001
Thin Set - Epoxy MortarImpact and chemical resistant.
97
$3,278.71
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 3,278.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.58
 1.2720
 720.00
09  78   23   00 0044
3/16" Thick, Rosewood, 4' x 8' Varia Ecoresin Panel
98
$76,769.72
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 76,769.72
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2,682.38
 1.2720
 22.50
Used for Neolith panels.
09  78   23   00 0276
Edge Sealing On <1/2" Thick Panels
99
$1,296.42
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,296.42
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 5.20
 1.2720
 196.00
Sealing at exposed edges of Neolith Panels.
$84,202.27
Subtotal for Wainscot
Proposal Total
This total represents the correct total for the proposal.  Any discrepancy between line totals, 
sub-totals and the proposal total is due to rounding.
$212,828.37
Page 9 of 9
2/15/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
128 of 250

--- page 129 ---
Subcontractor Listing
099235.00
Indian Springs Improvements
CA-07-CC-B-A-030618-NCM
IQC Master Contract #:
Work Order #:
Owner PO #:
Title:
Re:
February 15, 2022
Date:
Proposal Value:
Contractor: 
Newton Construction & Management, Inc.
$212,828.37
%
Duties
Name of Contractor
Amount
Ron Paris Construction Co. Inc.
 81.29
$173,000.00
 6.00
Page 1 of 1
2/15/2022
Subcontractor Listing
129 of 250

--- page 130 ---
AREA OF
WORK
TEMPORARY
FENCE
SET DOWN
AREA
INSTALL FILTER
FABRIC OVER
DRAIN INLET
(E) 8" CMU WALL TO 7'-6" WITH
WOOD FRAMING ABOVE
TO BE REMOVED
(N)  FLOORING FINISH
(E) LIGHT
(N) WALL FINISH
MEN
WOMEN
WOMEN
TACTILE  /  VISUAL
SIGN
DOOR FRAME
AT LATCH SIDE
WOMEN VISUAL SIGN
MEN VISUAL SIGN
1.
1/4" THICK VISUAL RESTROOM SIGNS TO BE CENTERED HORIZONTALLY ON DOOR.
2.
COMBINED TACTILE & VISUAL ACCESSIBLE RESTROOM SIGNS TO BE LOCATED ON SAME
WALL AS DOOR & ADJACENT TO LATCH SIDE. PROVIDE 18" MIN. X 18" MIN. CLEAR SPACE
IN FRONT OF SIGN & CENTERED ON SIGN. IF THIS CONFIGURATION IS NOT POSSIBLE,
LOCATE SIGN ON NEAREST ADJACENT WALL, PREFERABLY ON THE RIGHT SIDE.
3.
SIGNAGE SHALL COMPLY W/ CBC 11B-703.2 AND 11B-703.3. THE THICKNESS OF THE
GEOMETRIC SYMBOL SHALL BE NON-GLARE FINISH & CONTRAST IN COLOR W/ THE
DOOR. EDGES OF GEOMETRIC SYMBOL TO BE ROUNDED OR EASED AT 1/16" MIN. OR
CHAMFERED AT 1/8" MAX.
FINISH FLOOR
± 0' - 0"
6"
MIN.
9"
1/8" - 1/4" RAD.
VERTICES, TYP.
48" MIN. TO BASELINE
OF LOWEST TACTILE CHARACTER
60" MAX. TO BASELINE
OF HIGHEST TACTILE CHARACTER
12" TYP.
12" DIA. TYP.
58" - 60" TO CENTERLINE OF SIGN
MANEUVERING SPACE WITH
SIDE-OPENING DOOR
(CBC FIG. 11B-604.8.1.1.2)
56" MIN. @ WALL
MOUNT TOILET
60"
MIN. CLR.
17 1
2"
60" MIN. @ SIDE
DOOR MANUEV.
SPACE
CLEARANCE
4"
MAX.
56" MIN. @ WALL
MOUNT TOILET
60"
MIN. CLR.
17 1
2"
60" MIN
MANEUVERING
DOOR PERMITTED TO SWING
OVER HATCHED PORTION OF
MANEUVERING SPACE
CLEARANCE
4"
MAX.
4
ACCESSIBLE TOILET COMPARTMENT CLEARANCES
1/4" = 1' - 0"
NOTE:
1. STALL DOOR TO HAVE,  LOOP HANDLES, EACH SIDE OF DOOR,  PADDLE TYPE LOCK & SELF CLOSING HINGES (CBC
SECTION 11B-309.4).
2.  HARDWARE AT 34" MIN. & 44" MAX. ABOVE THE FINISHED FLOOR.  (CBC 11B-404.2.7)
3. ALL CLEAR FLOOR AREAS MUST BE LEVEL WITH SLOPE IN ANY DIRECTION NOT TO EXCEED 1.75%.
4. PARTITION TOE CLEARANCE 9" MIN. ABOVE FLOOR & 6" MIN BEYOND COMPARTMENT, EXCLUSIVE OF PARTITION
SUPPORTS.
36" MIN.
WHEN DOOR
SWINGS IN
User = PSM
Date = Tuesday, May 18, 2021 4:53:03 PM
Filename = C:\Users\PSM\Sync\PSM Projects\21920 San Mateo - Indian Springs\Con Docs\CAD Set\Sheets Indian Springs.dwg
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
FACILITIES DIVISION
 CIP
F
S
A
N
N
9
I
E
A
T
O
4
E
O
M
T
C
I
E
Y
A
C
C
N
R
O
F
I
L
A
I
8
1
D
E
T
A
R
O
P
R
O
INDIAN SPRINGS
RESTROOM REMODEL
AUGUST 27, 2021
Project # 469030
1
580
80
680
780
VALLEJO
4
CONCORD
LAFAYETTE
MARTINEZ
4
SAN PABLO
HERCULES
PINOLE
680
HILL
PLEASANT
242
MARIN
101
MILL
MADERA
ANSELMO
SAN
LARKSPUR
RAFAEL
SAN
CORTE
CO.
580
580
580
80
80
24
ALBANY
BERKELEY
EMERYVILLE
OAKLAND
MORAGA
PLEASANTON
LIVERMORE
SAN BRUNO
SAN LEANDRO
LORENZO
ALAMEDA
BRISBANE
SOUTH
SAN
238
580
HAYWARD
SAUSALITO
CITY
MARIN
SAN
280
PACIFICA
DALY
CITY
COLMA
SAN FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
VALLEY
TIBURON
ORINDA
WALNUT CREEK
FREMONT
101
92
BELMONT
MATEO
FOSTER CITY
SAN
BURLINGAME
MILBRAE
880
84
NEWARK
UNION CITY
880
680
MILPITAS
ALTOS
MOUNTAIN
280
PARK
WOODSIDE
REDWOOD
ATHERTON
MENLO PARK
VIEW
LOS
SUNNYVALE
REDWOOD CITY
MOSS BEACH
MONTARA
LINDA MAR
EL GRANADA
HALF MOON BAY
PALO ALTO
PROJECT
AREA
SHEET INDEX
1 
COVER SHEET
2
PROJECT NOTES & SCHEDULES
3
DEMOLITION PLANS, FLOOR PLAN,REFLECTED CEILING PLAN &
PLUMBING DIAGRAM
4
INTERIOR ELEVATION, EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS & DETAILS
ABBREVIATIONS
(E)   EXISTING
T.B.D.  TO BE DETERMINED
(N)  NEW
SYMBOLS LEGEND
INDIAN SPRINGS PARK
RESTROOM MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
1
PROJECT
AREA
1
KEY PLAN
N.T.S.
2
VICINITY MAP
N.T.S.
3
LOCATION PLAN
N.T.S.
WEST 39TH STREET
INDIAN SPRINGS
PARK
1
1
1
1
KEYNOTE TAG
EQUIPMENT TAG
WINDOW TAG
DOOR TAG
SITE NOTES
1.
CONTRACTOR PARKING WILL BE ALLOWED ON THE STREET ADJACENT TO THE
PROJECT, AS AVAILABLE.
2.
CONTRACTOR TO LOCATE STORAGE CONTAINER IN SET DOWN AREA. SHOULD
ADDITIONAL SPACE BE NEEDED COORDINATE WITH PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
3.
TEMPORARY FENCING TO BE 7' HIGH CHAIN LINK ONLY (VISUAL SCREEN NOT ALLOWED)
4.
CONTRACTOR TO MAINTAIN ILLUMINATION AROUND PERIMETER THROUGHOUT
PROJECT DURATION (OVERRIDE ON CITY OWNED TIMER AS NEEDED).
5
RESTROOM SIGNAGE
1'=1'-0"
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
EXISTING MENS & WOMENS  RESTROOM TO BE REMODELED.
SCOPE OF WORK INCLUDES:
· REMOVE ALL PLUMBING FIXTURES
· REMOVE ALL TOILET PARTITIONS
· REMOVE ALL ACCESSORIES
· REMOVE CEILING MOUNTED LIGHT FIXTURES
· REMOVE LOCK TIMERS AT DOORS, WITH  ASSOCIATED WIRING & CONDUIT
· REMOVE DOOR & JAMB  ACCESSIBILITY SIGNAGE
· REMOVE DOOR LOCKSETS
· REMOVE EXISTING EXTERIOR DRINKING FOUNTAIN
· PREPARE DOORS, FLOOR, CEILING & WALLS FOR NEW FINISHES
· NEW WALL FINISH
· NEW FLOOR& CURB  FINISH
· NEW CAST CONCRETE SINK ON METAL PEDESTAL
· NEW TOILETS & WALL CLEANOUT
· NEW URINAL
· NEW TOILET PARTITIONS
· NEW ACCESSORIES
· NEW BOTTLE FILLER
· NEW DOOR & JAMB ACCESSIBLE RESTROOM SIGNAGE
· NEW DOOR LOCKSET
· NEW COVER PLATE AT C.M.U. OPENINGS
· NEW VANDAL RESISTANT LED CEILING MOUNTED LIGHT FIXTURES & MOTION SENSOR
CONTROLS AND WIRING AS NEEDED
&nbsp;
130 of&nbsp;250

--- page 131 ---
User = PSM
Date = Tuesday, May 18, 2021 4:53:03 PM
Filename = C:\Users\PSM\Sync\PSM Projects\21920 San Mateo - Indian Springs\Con Docs\CAD Set\Sheets Indian Springs.dwg
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
FACILITIES DIVISION
 CIP
F
S
A
N
N
9
I
E
A
T
O
4
E
O
M
T
C
I
E
Y
A
C
C
N
R
O
F
I
L
A
I
8
1
D
E
T
A
R
O
P
R
O
INDIAN SPRINGS
RESTROOM REMODEL
AUGUST 27, 2021
Project # 469030
2
ACCESSORIES SCHEDULE
TAG
DESCRIPTION
MANUFACTURER
MODEL NO.
HAND DRYER
BRADLEY
2903-2874
2- ROLL TOILET PAPER DISPENSER
THE PARK CATALOG
152-1003
WALL MTD. SOAP DISPENSER
BRADLEY
6562
D
STAINLESS STEEL MIRROR
BRADLEY
748-2436
E
36" GRAB BAR
BRADLEY
821-001-36
F
48" GRAB BAR
BRADLEY
821-001-48
G
SEAT COVER DISPENSER
BRADLEY
5831
H
WASTE RECEPTACLE - WALL MTD.
BRADLEY
355
A
B
C
 
 
 
 
PLUMBING FIXTURES
TAG
DESCRIPTION
MANUFACTURER
MODEL NO.
NOTES
WC
WATER CLOSET
TOTO
CT708UV
COLOR: #01 COTTON
SEE NOTE 1
FLUSH VALVE
TOTO
TET2LA31-1.28-HW
VERIFY W/ (E) CONDITIONS
LAV
RAMP SINK
SONOMA CAST
STONE
SEE NOTE 2
PROVIDE THERMOSTATIC
MIXING VALVE
FAUCET
SLOAN
SF-2400-4-PLG-BDM-CP-0.5
GPM-MLM-IR-FCT
 120v- 1PH, SEE NOTE 3
UR
URINAL
TOTO
UT447EV 0.5 GPM
COLOR: #01 COTTON
FLUSH VALVE
TEU1LA12#CP
DF
DRINKING FOUNTAIN &
BOTTLE FILLER
ELKAY
VRCTLR8WSK
PROVIDE ELECTRICAL
CONNECTION, SEE NOTE 4
WH
WALL HYDRANT
ZURN
Z1350-VB 7 1
2" WALL
CYLINDER LOCK W/ VACUUM
BREAKER, BACKFLOW
PREVENTER
DOOR HARDWARE SPECIFICATION
1 -    RESTROOM DOOR
3
HINGE
MPB99 4-1/2" X 4-1/2" NRP
32D/630
MCKINNEY
1
DOOR CLOSER
1431 O XP9
626
SARGENT
1
ARM PULL
AP1007
630
ROCKWOOD
1
DEAD BOLT
B662P KEYED BOTH SIDES
626
SCHLAGE
1
LATCH PROTECTOR
320-RKW
630
ROCKWOOD
1
LOCKSET
ND96PD X RHO LEVER
STOREROOM FUNCTION
WITH VANDLEGARD 
626
SCHLAGE
1
ELECTRIC STRIKE
6211-US32D-FSE-24VDC
US 32D
VON DUPRIN
1 
POWER SUPPLY
PS 902
SCHLAGE
NOTE:
POWER SUPPLY MODULE CONNECTED TO THE ELECTRIC STRIKE IS TO BE OPERATED BY THE EXISTING
 “CAL SENSE” TIMER LOCATED IN THE UTILITY ROOM.  CONNECTION OF THE POWER SUPPLY TO THE TIMER
 IS TO BE COORDINATED WITH THE CITY OF SAN MATEO REPRESENTATIVE.
2 -   UTILITY ROOM DOOR
3
HINGE
MPB99 4-1/2" X 4-1/2" NRP
32D/630
MCKINNEY
1
DOOR CLOSER
1431 O
626
SARGENT
1
LOCKSET
ND80PD X RHO LEVER
626
SCHLAGE
1
LATCH PROTECTOR
320-RKW
630
ROCKWOOD
DOOR SPECIFICATION & NOTES
3'-0" X 7'-0" INSULATED HOLLOW METAL DOOR  AND HOLLOW METAL FRAME, FIELD VERIFY DOOR SIZE
THE BOTTOM 10" OF DOOR SHALL HAVE SMOOTH, UNINTERRUPTED SURFACE.
DOOR OPENING FORCE TO BE 5 LBS. MAX. (CBC 11B-404.2.9)  DOOR CLOSING SPEED W/ CLOSER TO BE 5 SEC. MIN.
FROM 90 DEG. OPEN TO 12 DEG FROM LATCH  (CBC 11B-404.2.8)
PROJECT NOTES
GENERAL CONDITIONS
A. ANY VARIANCE OR DEVIATIONS REQUESTED BY THE CONTRACTOR TO THESE GENERAL CONDITIONS SHALL BE AGREED TO,
IN WRITING, PRIOR TO BID AND CONTRACT ACCEPTANCE, WITH THE CITY REPRESENTATIVE.
B. CONFORM TO ALL GENERAL AND SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT AS SPECIFIED BY CITY OF SAN MATEO.
C. SPECIFICATIONS ARE APPLICABLE TO ALL CONTRACTORS AND/OR SUBCONTRACTORS.
D. CHECK OTHER PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS AND FULLY COORDINATE WITH ALL SYSTEMS.
E. VISIT SITE, CHECK FACILITIES AND CONDITIONS, VERIFY ALL UTILITY CONNECTIONS, AND TAKE ALL ITEMS INTO
CONSIDERATION IN BID.
F. SYSTEMS ARE TO BE COMPLETE AND FULLY FUNCTIONAL, PLACED IN OPERATION AND PROPERLY ADJUSTED.
G.CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE FOR CLEAN UP, RECYCLING, REMOVAL AND LEGAL DISPOSAL OF ALL RUBBISH ON A DAILY
BASIS.
H. FULLY COORDINATE ALL WORK AND COOPERATE COMPLETELY WITH OTHER CONTRACTORS, SUBCONTRACTORS AND CITY
REPRESENTATIVES.
I. CONTRACTORS MUST CONFIRM ALL UTILITY CONNECTION POINTS IN FIELD, PRIOR TO STARTING WORK.
J. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR CONSTRUCTION MEANS, METHODS, SEQUENCES OF
CONSTRUCTION, AND THE SAFETY OF WORKERS AND USERS OF THE FACILITIES.
K. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IS AS LISTED BELOW:
ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES (ADAAG) TITLE III & CALIFORNIA TITLE 24
A. THE CONTRACTOR, ALL SUB-CONTRACTORS, SUPPLIERS, FABRICATORS, AND MANUFACTURERS, IN THE PERFORMANCE OF
THEIR WORK ARE REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH THE LATEST ADDITION OF THE AMERICAN WITH DISABILITIES ACT
ACCESSIBLE GUIDELINES (ADAAG), TITLE III AS ENACTED ON JANUARY 26, 1992 (2010 ADA STANDARDS FOR ACCESSIBLE
DESIGN - 10/15/2010) AND ALL CURRENT REVISIONS AND SUPPLEMENTS, AND CALIFORNIA TITLE 24 GUIDELINES (CHAPTER
11B-CURRENT EDITION, CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE, 2019 EDITION).
B. THE CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO REVIEW ALL PROJECT PLANS AND DETAILS, BOTH SPECIFIC AND GENERAL IN NATURE,
FOR APPLICATION AND INTENT, AND COORDINATE THESE REQUIREMENTS WITH ACTUAL ONSITE CONDITIONS TO VERIFY
THAT THE REQUIREMENTS OF ACCESSIBILITY ARE BEING MET WITH THE PROPER CONSTRUCTION.
C. SHOULD THE CONTRACTOR FAIL TO COMPLY WITH ANY OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ADAAG AND CALIFORNIA BUILDING
CODE THAT ARE DESCRIBED HERE AND APPLY TO THIS PROJECT, THEY SHALL, UPON WRITTEN NOTIFICATION, IMMEDIATELY
CORRECT THE NON-CONFORMING WORK AT NO COST TO THE OWNER.
GREEN BUILDING NOTES
A. CONTRACTOR SHALL COMPLY WITH ALL LOCAL AND STATE GREEN BUILDING REQUIREMENTS, LAWS AND ORDINANCES
RELATED TO CONSTRUCTION
B. VOC LIMITS:   VOC LIMITS SHALL COMPLY WITH FEDERAL EPA STANDARDS AND ALL STATE AND LOCAL JURISDICTIONAL
REQUIREMENTS. CONTRACTOR SHALL USE PRODUCTS THAT REDUCE OR ELIMINATE VOC'S FROM THE PROJECT.
C.FORMALDEHYDE USE:  ALL MATERIAL UTILIZED ON THE PROJECT SHALL BE FREE OF FORMALDEHYDE OR UREA-
FORMALDEHYDE RESINS WITH THEIR CONTENTS. CONTRACTOR SHALL ENSURE THAT NO FORMALDEHYDE BASED
PRODUCTS ARE USED ON THIS PROJECT.
D. RECYCLED MATERIALS AND MATERIALS CONTENT: TO THE GREATEST EXTENT PRACTICAL, UTILIZE PRODUCTS AND
MATERIALS CONTAINING RECYCLED CONTENT. ENSURE THAT THE USE OF THESE PRODUCTS WILL NOT ADVERSELY AFFECT
THE FINISHED CONSTRUCTION PRODUCT.  COORDINATE WITH THE ARCHITECT AND CITY OF SAN MATEO FOR INDIVIDUAL
MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS WHERE QUESTION OR CONFLICTS OCCUR.
E. CONSTRUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT:   COMPLY WITH CITY OF SAN MATEO CONSTRUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT
REQUIREMENTS.
01 31 00 - PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
A. COORDINATE CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS INCLUDED IN DIFFERENT SECTIONS OF THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS TO
ENSURE EFFICIENT AND ORDERLY INSTALLATION OF EACH PART OF THE WORK.  COORDINATE CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS,
INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS OR SPECIFICATIONS, THAT DEPEND ON EACH OTHER FOR PROPER INSTALLATION,
CONNECTION AND OPERATIONS.
B. PREPARE COORDINATION DRAWINGS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE WORK, WHERE INSTALLATION MAY
NOT BE COMPLETELY SHOWN ON SHOP DRAWINGS, WHERE LIMITED SPACE NECESSITATES COORDINATION, OR IF
COORDINATION IS REQUIRE FACILITATING INTEGRATION OF PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS FABRICATED OR INSTALLED BY
MORE THAN ONE ENTITY.
C.ISSUE REQUEST FOR INFORMATION (RFI) IMMEDIATELY ON DISCOVERY OF NEED FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OR
INTERPRETATION OF CONTRACT DOCUMENTS. CONTRACTOR SHALL PREPARE AND SUBMIT RFI'S TO THE CITY OF SAN
MATEO REPRESENTATIVE AND ARCHITECT, IN THE FORM ACCEPTABLE TO THE CITY PROJECT MANAGER.  CONTRACTOR
SHALL REFERENCE ALL APPLICABLE INFORMATION INCLUDING INDICATIONS OF LOCATION OF WORK IN QUESTIONS.
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTE ANY TIME OR COST IMPACTS TO THE PROJECT ASSOCIATED WITH THE RFI, AT THE TIME OF THE
INITIAL RFI SUBMITTAL. CONTRACTOR SHALL KEEP A LOG OF THE RFI'S.
D. PRECONSTRUCTION/PREINSTALLATION CONFERENCES:  CONTRACTOR SHALL HOLD PRECONSTRUCTION/PREINSTALLATION
CONFERENCES WITH THEIR SUB-CONTRACTORS WHEN APPLICABLE TO FACILITATE THE SCHEDULING AND COORDINATION
OF THE WORK TO BE INSTALLED ON THE PROJECT.  CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE CITY PROJECT MANAGER AT LEAST 3
DAYS IN ADVANCE OF PRECONSTRUCTION CONFERENCES HELD AT THE SITE AND AFFORD THEM THE OPPORTUNITY TO
ATTEND THESE MEETINGS IF DESIRED.
013100 - SUBMITTALS PROCEDURES
A. ALL PROJECT SUBMITTALS SHALL BE PROVIDED COMPLETE, ACCURATE AND COORDINATED WITH THE WORK OF RELATED
TRADES.  ALL SUBMITTALS SHALL BE MADE NO LATER THAN 45 DAYS AFTER THE NOTICE TO PROCEED. THE OWNER WILL BE
PROVIDED 14 CALENDAR DAYS TO REVIEW AND RETURN SUBMITTALS TO THE CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR SHALL KEEP A
LOG OF THE SUBMITTALS AND THEIR STATUS.
B. COORDINATION WITH PROJECT SCHEDULE: CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE THE TIMING OF ALL SUBMITTALS TO ENSURE
PROPER TIME HAS BEEN ALLOTTED FOR REVIEWS AND APPROVALS PRIOR TO THE PROCUREMENT OF MATERIALS FOR
WORK TO BE PERFORMED.  CONTRACTOR IS SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR ENSURING THAT SUFFICIENT TIME IN THE PROJECT
SCHEDULE IS PROVIDED FOR THIS PROCESS. MATERIALS AND WORK THAT ARE COMMENCED AND COMPLETED BY THE
CONTRACTOR OR SUB-CONTRACTORS PRIOR TO RECEIVING FINAL APPROVALS FOR THEIR SUBMITTALS, SHALL BE DONE AT
THEIR OWN RISK, AND THE COST OF CORRECTING ANY WORK, NOT CONFORMING WITH SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS, IF
EXECUTED PRIOR TO THE COMPLETION OF THE SUBMITTAL PROCESS, SHALL BE BORNE SOLELY BY THE CONTRACTOR.
C. SUBMITTAL COORDINATION:  CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO COORDINATE ALL SUBMITTALS TO ENSURE ACCURACY AND
COMPLETENESS, AS WELL AS INTEGRATION WITH ALL OTHER ASPECTS OF THE PROJECT WORK PRIOR TO MAKING
SUBMITTALS TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO PROJECT MANAGER FOR REVIEW.  SUBMITTALS THAT ARE INCOMPLETE OR HAVE
NOT BEEN COORDINATED WITH THE FIELD CONDITIONS, FIELD DIMENSIONS, OR OTHER APPLICABLE TRADES SHALL BE
RETURNED FOR CORRECTION WITHOUT REVIEW BY THE CITY REPRESENTATIVE.
D. REVIEW FOR COORDINATION:  SUBMITTALS THAT REQUIRE COORDINATION WITH OTHER SUBMITTALS MAY BE HELD BY THE
CITY PROJECT MANAGER OR ARCHITECT UNTIL ALL RELATED SUBMITTALS ARE PROVIDED FOR REVIEW TO ENSURE
COMPLETENESS AND COORDINATION OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
E. PROVIDE SUBMITTALS OF EACH PRODUCT AND SYSTEM REQUIRED ON THE PROJECT TO THE OWNER, CONSTRUCTION
MANAGER AND ARCHITECT FOR REVIEW AND COMMENT.
1. PRODUCT CERTIFICATES: PREPARE WRITTEN STATEMENTS ON MANUFACTURER'S LETTERHEAD CERTIFYING THAT
PRODUCT COMPLIES WITH REQUIREMENTS.
2. MATERIAL CERTIFICATES: PREPARE WRITTEN STATEMENTS ON MANUFACTURER'S LETTERHEAD CERTIFYING THAT
MATERIAL COMPLIES WITH REQUIREMENTS.
3. RESEARCH / EVALUATION REPORTS: PREPARE WRITTEN EVIDENCE FROM A MODEL CODE ORGANIZATION ACCEPTABLE TO
AUTHORITIES HAVING JURISDICTION. THAT PRODUCT COMPLIES WITH BUILDING CODE IN EFFECT FOR PROJECT.
4. MAINTENANCE DATA: PREPARE WRITTEN AND GRAPHIC INSTRUCTIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION AND NORMAL
MAINTENANCE OF PRODUCTS AND EQUIPMENT.
5. DESIGN DATA: PREPARE WRITTEN AND GRAPHIC INFORMATION, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PERFORMANCE AND
DESIGN CRITERIA, LIST OF APPLICATION CODES AND REGULATIONS, AND CALCULATIONS. INCLUDE LIST OF ASSUMPTIONS
AND OTHER PERFORMANCE AND DESIGN CRITERIA AND A SUMMARY OF LOADS. INCLUDE LOAD DIAGRAMS IF APPLICABLE.
PROVIDE NAME AND VERSION OF SOFTWARE, IF ANY, USED FOR CALCULATIONS. INCLUDE PAGE NUMBERS.
6. MANUFACTURER'S INSTRUCTIONS: PREPARE WRITTEN OR PUBLISHED INFORMATION THAT DOCUMENTS
MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND PROCEDURES FOR INSTALLING OR OPERATING A PRODUCT OR
EQUIPMENT. INCLUDE NAME OF PRODUCT AND NAME, ADDRESS, AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OF MANUFACTURER.
7. PRODUCT DATA: COLLECT INFORMATION INTO A SINGLE SUBMITTAL FOR EACH ELEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION AND TYPE OF
PRODUCT OR EQUIPMENT.
8. CLEARLY MARK EACH COPY OF EACH SUBMITTAL TO SHOW WHICH PRODUCTS AND OPTIONS ARE APPLICABLE.
9. SHOP DRAWINGS: PREPARE PROJECT-SPECIFIC INFORMATION, DRAWN ACCURATELY TO SCALE. DO NOT BASE SHOP
DRAWINGS ON REPRODUCTIONS OF THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS OR STANDARD PRINTED DATA. INCLUDE THE
FOLLOWING INFORMATION. AS APPLICABLE.
10. COORDINATION DRAWINGS:  PREPARE PROJECT-SPECIFIC COORDINATION DRAWINGS WHERE INSTALLATION IS NOT
COMPLETELY SHOWN ON SHOP DRAWINGS, WHERE LIMITED SPACE NECESSITATES COORDINATION, OR IF COORDINATION
IS REQUIRED TO FACILITATE INTEGRATION OF PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS INSTALLED BY MORE THAN ONE ENTITY.
F. SUBMIT SAMPLES FOR REVIEW OF MODEL, COLOR, PATTERN, AND TEXTURE FOR A FINAL CHECK OF THESE
CHARACTERISTICS WITH OTHER ELEMENTS AND FOR A COMPARISON OF THESE CHARACTERISTICS BETWEEN FINAL
SUBMITTAL AND ACTUAL COMPONENT AS DELIVERED AND INSTALLED.
G.DISPOSITION: MAINTAIN SETS OF APPROVED SAMPLES AT PROJECT SITE, AVAILABLE FOR QUALITY-CONTROL COMPARISONS
THROUGHOUT THE COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. SAMPLE SETS MAY BE USED TO DETERMINE FINAL ACCEPTANCE
OF CONSTRUCTION ASSOCIATED WITH EACH SET.
01 40 00 - QUALITY REQUIREMENTS
A. MINIMUM QUALITY OR QUALITY LEVELS: THE QUANTITY OR QUALITY LEVEL SHOWN OR SPECIFIED SHALL BE THE MINIMUM
PROVIDED OR PERFORMED. THE ACTUAL INSTALLATION MAY COMPLY EXACTLY WITH THE MINIMUM QUANTITY OR QUALITY
SPECIFIED, OR IT MAY EXCEED THE MINIMUM WITHIN REASONABLE LIMITS. TO COMPLY WITH THESE REQUIREMENTS,
INDICATED NUMERIC VALUES ARE MINIMUM OR MAXIMUM, AS APPROPRIATE, FOR THE CONTEXT OF THE REQUIREMENTS.
REFER UNCERTAINTIES TO CITY PROJECT MANAGER FOR A FINAL DETERMINATION BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH
PROCUREMENT AND INSTALLATION OF WORK.
B. REFERENCE STANDARDS:  IF COMPLIANCE WITH TWO OR MORE STANDARDS IS SPECIFIED AND THE STANDARDS ESTABLISH
DIFFERENT OR CONFLICTING REQUIREMENTS FOR MINIMUM QUANTITIES OR QUALITY LEVELS, IT IS ASSUMED THE
CONTRACTOR HAS BID AND WILL COMPLY WITH THE MOST STRINGENT REQUIREMENT. IN NO CASE SHALL IT BE ASSUMED
THAT PROJECT REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIED ARE INTENDED TO BE LESS THAN WHAT IS COMPLIANT WITH MINIMUM CODE
REQUIREMENTS FOR WORK. REFER CONFLICTING REQUIREMENTS THAT ARE DIFFERENT, BUT APPARENTLY EQUAL, TO
ARCHITECT FOR REVIEW AND DIRECTION PRIOR TO PROCUREMENT AND INSTALLATION OF THE WORK.
C. QUALITY-CONTROL PERSONNEL: CONTRACTOR SHALL ENGAGE A QUALIFIED, FULL-TIME PERSONNEL TRAINED AND
EXPERIENCED IN MANAGING AND EXECUTING QUALITY-ASSURANCE AND QUALITY-CONTROL PROCEDURES AS REQUIRED BY
THE NATURE AND EXTENT OF THOSE FOR THE PROJECT. WHERE ALLOWED BY THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CONTRACTOR'S
SUPERINTENDENT, AND / OR PROJECT MANAGER, IF QUALIFIED, CAN PERFORM THE DUTIES OF THE CONTRACTOR'S QUALITY
CONTROL PERSONNEL.
D. COORDINATION OF QUALITY-CONTROL WORK:  CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE ALL REQUIRED QUALITY-CONTROL WORK
TO BE PERFORMED ON SITE BY CIVIC AND CONTRACTOR PROVIDED INSPECTORS, PRODUCT MANUFACTURER'S TECHNICAL
AND FIELD SERVICES AND SPECIAL TESTING AND INSPECTION AGENTS. CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE AND SCHEDULE
ALL REQUIRED TESTS AND INSPECTIONS AND MAKE WORK ACCESSIBLE AND VISIBLE FOR SUCH. CONTRACTOR SHALL
REMEDY AND REPAIR ALL WORK AS REQUIRED, THAT HAS FAILED ANY REQUIRED TESTS AND INSPECTIONS, AT NO
ADDITIONAL COST TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO.  CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN A RECORD OF ALL TESTS AND INSPECTIONS,
AND ALL RESULTS AT THE PROJECT SITE, READY FOR INSPECTION BY THE CITY REPRESENTATIVE, UPON THEIR REQUEST.
01 43 26 -TESTING & INSPECTIONS:
A.PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MEET WITH THE CITY PROJECT MANAGER TO REVIEW
QUALITY CONTROL MEASURES FOR THE PROJECT AND ASSIGN RESPONSIBILITIES FOR TESTING AND INSPECTION SERVICES.
1. WHERE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS INDICATE SPECIFIC CONTRACTOR PROVIDED TESTING OR INSPECTION
REQUIREMENTS, THE COST FOR THESE SHALL BE A COMPONENT OF THE BASE BID.
2. ADDITIONAL SERVICES MAY BE DEEMED NECESSITY FOR TESTING OR INSPECTION SERVICES NOT PREVIOUSLY LISTED ON
THE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.
B. CITY OF SAN MATEO RESPONSIBILITIES:  WHERE QUALITY-CONTROL SERVICES ARE INDICATED OR AGREED TO BE AN
OWNER RESPONSIBILITY, CITY OF SAN MATEO WILL ENGAGE A QUALIFIED TESTING AGENCY TO PERFORM THESE SERVICES.
1. CITY WILL FURNISH CONTRACTOR WITH NAMES, ADDRESSES, AND TELEPHONE NUMBERS OF TESTING AGENCIES
ENGAGED AND A DESCRIPTION OF TYPES OF TESTING AND INSPECTING THEY ARE ENGAGED TO PERFORM.
2. COSTS FOR RETESTING AND RE-INSPECTION CONSTRUCTION THAT REPLACES OR IS NECESSITATED BY WORK THAT
FAILED TO COMPLY WITH THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS WILL BE CHARGED TO CONTRACTOR.
C. TESTS AND INSPECTIONS NOT EXPLICITLY ASSIGNED TO CITY OF SAN MATEO ARE CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY.
1. UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED, PROVIDE QUALITY-CONTROL SERVICES SPECIFIED AND THOSE REQUIRED BY
AUTHORITIES HAVING JURISDICTION.
2. PERFORM QUALITY-CONTROL SERVICES REQUIRED OF CONTRACTOR BY AUTHORITIES HAVING JURISDICTION, WHETHER
SPECIFIED OR NOT.
D. TESTING OR INSPECTION SERVICES DO NOT RELIEVE CONTRACTOR OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE
CONTRACT DOCUMENT REQUIREMENTS.
E. ON COMPLETION OF TESTING, INSPECTION, SAMPLE TAKING, AND SIMILAR SERVICES, REPAIR DAMAGED CONSTRUCTION
AND RESTORE SUBSTRATES AND FINISHES.
1. PROTECT CONSTRUCTION EXPOSED BY OR FOR QUALITY-CONTROL SERVICE ACTIVITIES.
2. REPAIR AND PROTECTION ARE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY, REGARDLESS OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY
FOR QUALITY-CONTROL SERVICES.
01 45 00 - QUALITY CONTROL:
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL HAVE A QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM WHOSE ACTIVITIES, ACTIONS, AND PROCEDURES
PERFORMED BEFORE AND DURING EXECUTION OF THE WORK SHALL GUARD AGAINST DEFECTS AND DEFICIENCIES AND
SUBSTANTIATE THAT PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION WILL COMPLY WITH PROJECT REQUIREMENTS, CITY OF SAN MATEO
REQUESTS OR AUTHORITIES HAVING JURISDICTION. SEE NOTES FOR REQUIRED QUALITY-CONTROL PERSONNEL RETAINED BY
THE CONTRACTOR.
01 50 00 - TEMPORARY FACILITIES & CONTROLS
A.RESTRICT USE OF NOISEMAKING TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT TO HOURS THAT WILL MINIMIZE COMPLAINTS FROM PERSONS OR
FIRMS NEAR PROJECT SITE. COORDINATE OFF HOUR WORK WITH CITY REPRESENTATIVE.
B. FOR ANY WORK TO BE PERFORMED OTHER THAN REGULAR BUSINESS HOURS, COORDINATE WITH CITY REPRESENTATIVE
FOR SCHEDULING IN ADVANCE FOR ISSUANCE OF WRITTEN APPROVAL. ANY CONTRACTOR OF SUBCONTRACTOR WITHOUT
SUCH APPROVAL WILL BE ASKED TO LEAVE THE PREMISES, WITH NO COMPENSATION FOR LOST TIME.
C. KEEP PREMISES ORDERLY AND CLEAN.
D. RELOCATE ANY STORED PRODUCTS THAT INTERFERE WITH OPERATIONS OF THE CITY OR BUILDING MANAGER.
E. ERECT AND MAINTAIN DUSTPROOF PARTITIONS AND TEMPORARY ENCLOSURES TO LIMIT DUST AND DIRT MIGRATION AND TO
SEPARATE AREAS FROM FUMES AND NOISE.
F. KEEP DOORS TO THE SPACE BEING WORKED ON CLOSED AT ALL TIMES.
G. WHEN PAINTING OR STAINING, PROVIDE ADEQUATE VENTILATION USING FANS AND WINDOWS TO KEEP FUMES AND ODORS
OUT OF OTHER SPACES.
H. PROVIDE TYPE ABC DRY-CHEMICAL FIRE EXTINGUISHERS AND LOCATE WHERE CONVENIENT AND AS REQUIRED BY LOCAL
LAWS. PROVIDE NOT LESS THAN ONE EXTINGUISHER ON EACH FLOOR AND ONE IN FIELD OFFICE.
I. REMOVE EACH TEMPORARY FACILITY WHEN NEED FOR ITS SERVICE HAS ENDED. REPAIR DAMAGED WORK, CLEAN EXPOSED
SURFACES AND REPLACE CONSTRUCTION THAT CANNOT BE SATISFACTORILY REPAIRED.
J. THE CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTORS AND THEIR EMPLOYEES SHALL BE SUBJECT TO AND SHALL AT ALL TIMES
CONFORM TO THE CITY'S RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE FACILITY, MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT AND
CITY'S EMPLOYEES.  IF REQUIRED BY THE CITY, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL FURNISH TO EMPLOYEES OF THE CONTRACTOR
AND SUBCONTRACTORS SPECIAL BADGES OR CARDS WHICH WILL IDENTIFY THEM AS EMPLOYEES AND ADMIT THEM TO
SUCH PORTIONS OF THE PREMISES AS MAY BE DESIGNATED BY THE CITY.
K. IF PROJECT REQUIRES DELIVERY OF EXCESSIVE QUANTITIES OF, OR LARGE FORMAT MATERIALS, CONTRACTOR SHALL
COORDINATE THE USE OF PREMISES WITH THE CITY REPRESENTATIVE AND PROVIDE COSTS FOR ALTERNATE MEANS OF
DELIVERY AND ACCESS. CONTRACTOR SHALL OBTAIN CITY'S APPROVAL FOR COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH ALTERNATE MEANS
OF DELIVERY PRIOR TO COMMENCING WITH WORK.
L. SMOKING OR VAPING ON THE PREMISES WILL NOT BE PERMITTED.
M.BUILDING ENTRY DOORS SHALL NOT BE PROPPED OPEN.
01 60 00 - PRODUCT REQUIREMENTS:
A.PROVIDE PRODUCTS THAT COMPLY WITH THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, THAT ARE NEW, UNDAMAGED, AND IN PROPER
WORKING ORDER AT TIME OF INSTALLATION.
1. PROVIDE PRODUCTS COMPLETE WITH ACCESSORIES, TRIM, FINISH, FASTENERS, AND OTHER ITEMS NEEDED FOR A
COMPLETE AND OPERATING INSTALLATION AND INDICATED USE AND EFFECT, EVEN IF ALL ELEMENTS OF THE SYSTEM
ARE NOT INDICATED IN THE PROJECT DRAWINGS.
2. STANDARD PRODUCTS: UNLESS CUSTOM PRODUCTS OR NON-STANDARD OPTIONS ARE SPECIFIED, PROVIDE PRODUCTS
OF BOTH QUALITY AND TYPE THAT HAVE BEEN USED SUCCESSFULLY IN SIMILAR SITUATIONS ON EQUAL QUALITY
PROJECTS AND HAVE BEEN APPROVED FOR USE BY THE CITY.
3. CITY OF SAN MATEO RESERVES THE RIGHT TO LIMIT SELECTION TO PRODUCTS WITH WARRANTIES NOT IN CONFLICT WITH
REQUIREMENTS OF THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
4. WHERE PRODUCTS ARE ACCOMPANIED BY THE TERM “AS SELECTED OR TO BE DETERMINED (T.B.D.)”, CITY
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE SELECTION.
5. WHERE PRODUCTS ARE ACCOMPANIED BY THE TERM “MATCH SAMPLE”, SAMPLE TO BE MATCHED IS CITY
REPRESENTATIVE'S.
6. DESCRIPTIVE, PERFORMANCE, AND REFERENCE STANDARD REQUIREMENTS IN THE SPECIFICATIONS ESTABLISHED
“SALIENT CHARACTERISTICS” OF PRODUCTS
B. SUBSTITUTIONS: SUBSTITUTIONS WILL ONLY BE CONSIDERED UNDER ONE OF THE FOLLOWING CONDITIONS:
1. THAT THE SPECIFIED PRODUCT IS NOT AVAILABLE DUE TO LOCKOUT, STRIKE, BANKRUPTCY, PRODUCT DISCONTINUANCE,
ACTS OF GOD, AND THAT PROPOSED PRODUCT WILL MATCH OR EXCEED THE QUALITY OF THE SPECIFIED PRODUCT
WHILE EITHER PROVIDING THE OWNER WITH A COST SAVINGS OR EXPEDITING THE WORK.
2. WHEN A WARRANTY OF PERFORMANCE IS SPECIFIED AND, IN THE JUDGEMENT OF THE CONTRACTOR OR PRODUCT
MANUFACTURER, THE SPECIFIED PRODUCT WILL NOT PROVIDE THE DESIRED PERFORMANCE.
01 73 00 - EXECUTION:
A.FIELD MEASUREMENTS: TAKE FIELD MEASUREMENTS AS REQUIRED TO FIT THE WORK PROPERLY. RECHECK
MEASUREMENTS BEFORE INSTALLING EACH PRODUCT. WHERE PORTIONS OF THE WORK ARE INDICATED TO FIT TO OTHER
CONSTRUCTION, VERIFY DIMENSIONS OF OTHER CONSTRUCTION BY FIELD MEASUREMENTS BEFORE FABRICATION,
PROCUREMENT AND / OR INSTALLATION OF SUCH.
B. SPACE REQUIREMENTS: VERIFY SPACE REQUIREMENTS AND DIMENSIONS OF ITEMS SHOWN DIAGRAMMATICALLY ON
DRAWINGS. NOTIFY CITY REPRESENTATIVE IMMEDIATELY OF ANY DISCREPANCIES OR CONFLICTS WITH REQUIREMENTS.
C. CONSTRUCTION LAYOUT: DURING THE PROGRESS OF THE WORK ESTABLISH BENCHMARKS, REFERENCE LINES AND
REFERENCE POINTS AND LEVELS AT EACH FLOOR AND AS OTHERWISE NECESSARY FOR THE GUIDANCE AND INFORMATION
OF EACH TRADE AND FOR THE FIELD VERIFICATION OR SPECIFIED CONSTRUCTION TOLERANCES. CALCULATE AND MEASURE
REQUIRED DIMENSIONS WITHIN INDICATED OR RECOGNIZED TOLERANCES.
1. LOCATE THE WORK AND COMPONENTS OF THE WORK ACCURATELY, IN CORRECT ALIGNMENT AND ELEVATION, AS
INDICATED.
2. MAKE VERTICAL WORK PLUMB AND MAKE HORIZONTAL WORK LEVEL.
3. CONCEAL PIPES, DUCTS, AND WIRING IN FINISHED AREAS, UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED.
4. COORDINATE ALL WORK WITH EXISTING CONDITIONS TO REMAIN.
D. COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURER'S WRITTEN INSTRUCTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INSTALLING PRODUCTS IN
APPLICATIONS INDICATED TO ENSURE PROPER INSTALLATION AND ENSURE PRODUCT WARRANTY.
E. ANCHORS AND FASTENERS: PROVIDE ANCHORS AND FASTENERS AS REQUIRED TO ANCHOR EACH COMPONENT SECURELY
IN PLACE, ACCURATELY LOCATED AND ALIGNED WITH OTHER PORTIONS OF THE WORK.
1. WHERE MOUNTING HEIGHTS ARE NOT INDICATED, MOUNT COMPONENTS AT HEIGHTS DIRECTED BY CITY
REPRESENTATIVE.
2. WHERE MOUNTING TYPES ARE NOT INDICATED, MOUNT COMPONENTS AS DIRECTED BY MANUFACTURER'S WRITTEN
INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS FOR PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS.
F. START AND TEST EQUIPMENT AND OPERATING COMPONENTS TO CONFIRM PROPER OPERATION. REMOVE MALFUNCTIONING
UNITS, REPLACE WITH NEW UNITS, AND RETEST. COMPLY WITH ALL REQUIREMENTS FOR START-UP AND COMMISSIONING OF
COMPONENTS AS REQUIRED BY THE PROJECT DOCUMENTS AND LOCAL LAWS.
G. ADJUST OPERATING COMPONENTS FOR PROPER OPERATION WITHOUT BINDING. ADJUST EQUIPMENT FOR PROPER
OPERATION.
H. TEST EACH PIECE OF EQUIPMENT TO VERIFY PROPER OPERATION. TEST AND ADJUST CONTROLS AND SAFETY. REPLACE
DAMAGED AND MALFUNCTIONING CONTROLS AND EQUIPMENT. ENSURE ALL EQUIPMENT IS OPERATING WITHIN DESIGNED
PARAMETERS TO ENSURE EFFICIENT OPERATION.
I. PROVIDE FINAL PROTECTION AND MAINTAIN CONDITIONS THAT ENSURE INSTALLED WORK IS WITHOUT DAMAGE OR
DETERIORATION AT TIME OF SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION.
1. COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURER'S WRITTEN INSTRUCTIONS FOR TEMPERATURE AND RELATIVE HUMIDITY.
J. REPAIR OR REMOVE AND REPLACE DEFECTIVE CONSTRUCTION. RESTORE DAMAGED SUBSTRATES AND FINISHES.
K. REMOVE AND REPLACE DAMAGED SURFACES THAT ARE EXPOSED TO VIEW IF SURFACES CANNOT BE REPAIRED WITHOUT
VISIBLE EVIDENCE OF SUCH.
L. REPAIR COMPONENTS THAT DO NOT OPERATE PROPERLY. REMOVE AND REPLACE OPERATING COMPONENTS THAT CANNOT
BE REPAIRED.
01 71 33 - PROTECTION OF PERSONS AND PREMISES:
A. DO NOT LOAD ANY PART OF THE WORK WITH WEIGHT THAT WILL DAMAGE OR ENDANGER THE SAFETY OF THE STRUCTURE
OR ANY PART THEREOF.
B. PROTECT THE EXISTING PREMISES, INCLUDING SITE AREAS TO REMAIN AGAINST DAMAGE DURING THE DURATION OF
CONSTRUCTION. REPAIR ANY DAMAGE CAUSED BY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
01 73 29 - EXECUTION: CUTTING AND PATCHING:
A. CONTRACTOR SHALL FAMILIARIZE THEMSELVES WITH THE EXISTING CONDITIONS AND STRUCTURE OF THE BUILDING PRIOR
TO THE START OF ANY CUTTING AND PATCHING ACTIVITIES. DO NOT CUT AND PATCH STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS AT ANY TIME.
B. DO NOT CUT AND PATCH OPERATING ELEMENTS AND RELATED COMPONENTS IN A MANNER THAT RESULTS IN VISUAL
EVIDENCE OF CUTTING AND PATCHING.
1. RESTORE EXPOSED FINISHES OF PATCHED AREAS AND EXTENDED FINISH RESTORATION INTO RETAINED ADJOINING
CONSTRUCTION IN A MANNER THAT WILL ELIMINATE EVIDENCE OF PATCHING AND REFINISHING.
01 74 00 - EXECUTION: CLEANING
A. PROVIDE FINAL CLEANING. CONDUCT CLEANING AND WASTE-REMOVAL OPERATIONS TO COMPLY WITH LOCAL LAWS AND
ORDINANCES AND FEDERAL AND LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND ANTIPOLLUTION REGULATIONS.
B. CLEAN EACH SURFACE OR UNIT TO CONDITION EXPECTED IN AN AVERAGE COMMERCIAL BUILDING CLEANING AND
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM. COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURERS WRITTEN INSTRUCTIONS.
C. CLEAN AND RE-LAMP ALL NEW LIGHT FIXTURES, LAMPS, GLOBES, AND REFLECTORS WHEN THESE FIXTURES WERE USED AS
LIGHT SOURCE DURING CONSTRUCTION. FOR EXISTING LIGHT FIXTURES, REPLACE BURNED-OUT BULBS, AND THOSE
NOTICEABLY DIMMED BY HOURS OF USE.
D. LEAVE PROJECT CLEAN AND READY FOR OCCUPANCY.
01 78 23 CLOSEOUT SUBMITTALS - OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUALS:
A. ASSEMBLE A COMPLETE SET OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE DATA INDICATING THE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF
EACH SYSTEM, SUB-SYSTEM, AND PIECE OF EQUIPMENT NOT PART OF A SYSTEM.
B. ORGANIZE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUALS INTO SUITABLE SETS OF MANAGEABLE SIZE. BIND AND INDEX DATA IN A
HEAVY-DUTY, 3-RING, VINYL-COVERED, LOOSE-LEAF BINDERS, IN THICKNESS NECESSARY TO ACCOMMODATE CONTENTS,
WITH POCKET INSIDE THE COVERS TO RECEIVE FOLDED OVERSIZED SHEETS. IDENTIFY EACH BINDER ON FRONT AND SPINE
WITH THE PRINTED TITLE “OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE MANUAL,” PROJECT NAME, AND SUBJECT MATTER OF CONTENTS.
01 78 36 - CLOSEOUT SUBMITTALS - WARRANTY:
A. PRIOR TO ISSUE OF CERTIFICATE OF FINAL COMPLETION, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL EXECUTE AND DELIVER TO THE CITY
REPRESENTATIVE A WRITTEN WARRANTY FOR THE WORK.
B. SHOULD ANY DEFECT DEVELOP OR BECOME APPARENT DURING THE WARRANTY PERIOD DUE TO IMPROPER MATERIALS OR
WORKMANSHIP, THE DEFECTS SHALL, UPON WRITTEN NOTICE, BE MADE GOOD BY THE CONTRACTOR WITHOUT ADDITIONAL
EXPENSE TO THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, AND ANY OTHER WORK AFFECTED IN CORRECTING SUCH DEFECTS SHALL ALSO BE
MADE GOOD.
C. THE WARRANTY PERIOD SHALL BE AS AGREED UPON BETWEEN THE OWNER AND THE CONTRACTOR BUT SHALL NOT BE
LESS THAN TWO YEARS AFTER ACCEPTANCE OF THE CERTIFICATE OF FINAL COMPLETION.
1. THIS WARRANTY DOES NOT PRECLUDE SPECIAL OR ADDITIONAL WARRANTY REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL
COMPONENTS OR SYSTEMS SPECIFIED ELSEWHERE.
2. THIS WARRANTY SHALL BE IN ADDITION TO, AND NOT A LIMITATION OF, OTHER RIGHTS THE OWNER MAY HAVE AGAINST
THE CONTRACTOR UNDER THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
01 78 39 CLOSEOUT SUBMITTALS - PROJECT RECORD DOCUMENTS:
A. CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN AT THE JOBSITE ONE RECORD COPY OF THE DRAWINGS, SPECIFICATIONS, CHANGE ORDERS
AND ADDENDA OR OTHER MODIFICATIONS TO THE PROJECT. CONTRACTOR SHALL MARK-UP AND KEEP CURRENT TO
RECORD CHANGES MADE DURING CONSTRUCTION.
1. SUBMIT TO CITY REPRESENTATIVE ALL RECORD DOCUMENTS AT THE END OF CONSTRUCTION.
2. SUBMIT TO CITY REPRESENTATIVE ONE COPY OF ALL “APPROVED” SHOP DRAWINGS, PRODUCT DATA SHEETS AND
SAMPLES.
NOTES:
1.
WATER CLOSET FLOW RATE 1.28 GALLONS PER FLUSH MAX., PROVIDE NEW CLEANOUT IN WALL ABOVE TOILET.
2.
CUSTOM CAST RAMP SINK AND COUNTER AS MANUFACTURED BY SONOMA CAST STONE. 40" WIDE X 22" DEEP X
2" THICK "EARTHCRETE". FINISH: "NUCRETE FORMAT". SINK SUPPORTED BY CUSTOM METAL FRAME
MANUFACTURER BY FINE STEEL PRODUCTS, SAN JOSE, CA.  STEEL TO BE ASTM A500 A/B. COORDINATE
LOCATION OF  FAUCET & SOAP DISPENSER PENETRATIONS.
3.
LAVATORY FAUCET MAX FLOW RATE 0.5 GPM AT 60 PSI.
4.
MODIFY PLUMBING LINES AND ELECTRICAL CONNECTIONS AS NEEDED.
SPECIFICATIONS
WALL WAINSCOT:
MANUFACTURER:  NEOLITH. ESTATUARIO SILK E05 QUARTZ TILE PANELS. WALL PANELS 48" X 48", UP 8'-0” HIGH.
100% NATURAL MINERALS COMPOSITION. NEOLITH TO BE INSTALLED BY MANUFACTURER APPROVED CONTRACTOR
PER MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS. PREPARE PAINTED C.M.U. AS NEEDED FOR THINSET OF NEOLITH.
FLOOR & CURB FINISH:
MANUFACTURER:  DUR-A-FLEX . ACCELERA HQ SEAMLESS FLOORING SYSTEM. FLOORING SYSTEM CONSISTING OF
A SELF-LEVELING BASE COAT, WITH 2 COATS OF DECORATIVE QUARTZ BROADCAST AND A CLEAR TOPCOAT.
PARTITIONS:
MANUFACTURER:  ACCUTEC, SCRANTON SERIES. TYPE: POLYMER HDPE SOLID PLASTIC HEAD RAIL, BRACES. ALL
HARDWARE, BRACKETS, HINGES AND SHOES TO BE STAINLESS STEEL.  COLOR: FROM MANUFACTURER'S
STANDARDS.
CEILING MOUNTED LED LIGHT FIXTURE:
HARRIS LIGHTING ROUGH SERVICE   LUMINAIRE MODEL 100-LED-4K4
EXTERIOR  LED LIGHT FIXTURE
LITHONIA CNY LED PO 40k MVOLT DDB - DARK BRONZE
 
PAINT SPECIFICATION
PAINT TO BE KELLY MOORE
ALL SURFACES TO RECEIVE PAINT TO BE CLEANED THOROUGHLY &  PREPARED PER PAINT MANUFACTURER'S
RECOMMENDATION. IF (E) PAINT IS IN GOOD CONDITION (NO PEELING OR CHALKING) PRIMER COAT MAYBE OMITTED.
EXTERIOR WOOD TRIM & SIDING
1 COAT: PRIMER KM 295 KEL BOND UNIVERSAL PRIMER
2 COATS: KM 1245 ACRYSHIELD 100 % ACRYLIC LOW SHEEN
EXTERIOR METAL DOORS
1 COAT: PRIMER 5725 DTM ACRYLIC METAL PRIMER
2 COATS: KM 2888 DURA - POXY HP ACRYLIC URETHANE SEMI - GLOSS ENAMEL
PC3V100 ANTI GRAFFITI CLEAR COATING
EXTERIOR CMU
1 COAT:  PRIME WITH KM 295 KEL-BOND UNIVERSAL PRIMER
2 COATS OF KM 1245 ACRYSHIELD 100% ACRYLIC LOW SHEEN
PC3V100 ANTI GRAFFITI CLEAR COATING
INTERIOR WOOD
1 COAT: KM 295 KEL-BOND UNIVERSAL PRIMER
2 COATS: KM DURA-POXY HP 2888 ACRYLIC URETHANE SEMI-GLOSS ENAMEL
 
1
1
1
2
2
&nbsp;
131 of&nbsp;250

--- page 132 ---
9'-0"
9'-0"
12'-8"
6'-1"
4'-4"
4'-8"
4'-8"
4'-4"
18'-73 4"
5'-5"
5'-5"
REMOVE METAL DOOR
& FRAME, TYPICAL OF 3
REMOVE ALL
PARTITIONS,
TYP.
REMOVE
HAND
DRYER,
TYP.
REMOVE ALL
PLUMBING
FIXTURES,
TYP.
REMOVE ALL
ACCESSORIES,
TYP.
REMOVE
DRINKING
FOUNTAIN
REMOVE
LIGHT
TIMER
PREP
FLOOR FOR
(N) FINISH,
TYP.
REMOVE HOSE
BIBB TYP.
COVER PLATE
AT (E) OPNG,
TYPICAL
TOILET
& URINAL
PARTITIONS
FLOOR
FINISH
TOILET
PARTITIONS
5'-0" MIN.
CLR.
FLOOR
FINISH
DRINKING FOUNTAIN &
RAILS, SEE DETAIL 4/4 FOR
MOUNTING HEIGHTS &
CLEARANCES
NEOLITH
WALL FINISH
NEOLITH
WALL FINISH
NEOLITH
WALL FINISH
PROVIDE
CLOSURE TRIM
AT EDGE OF
NEOLITH WALL
FINISH
PROVIDE
CLOSURE TRIM
AT EDGE OF
NEOLITH WALL
FINISH
SURFACE
MOUNTED
HINGE
REMOVE
TIMERED
LOCKS,
WIRING &
CONDUIT
REMOVE
LIGHT
FIXTURE
LINE OF (E) ROOF
OVERHANG
REMOVE SWITCH
& CONDUIT
REMOVE
TIMERED
LOCKS,
WIRING &
CONDUIT
REMOVE SWITCH
& CONDUIT
REMOVE
LIGHT
FIXTURE
REMOVE
TIMER
CLG. MTD.
LED
LIGHT
FIXTURE
LINE OF (E) ROOF
OVERHANG
INSTALL
TIMER
CONTROLS
EXTERIOR LED
LIGHT FIXTURE
(E) ELECTRICAL
PANEL
PROVIDE OUTLET
& (N) DEDICATED
CIRCUIT FOR
DRINKING
FOUNTAIN
MODIFY SEWER
LINES FOR (N)
DRINKING
FOUNTAIN, SEE
DETAIL 3/4
PROVIDE NEW CLEANOUT
ABOVE EACH TOILET  IN
PLUMBING CHASE
MODIFY WATER
LINE FOR (N)
DRINKING
FOUNTAIN, SEE
DETAIL 3/4
PROVIDE
DEDICATED
OUTLET FOR
DRINKING
FOUNTAIN
PROVIDE
WIRING TO
TOILET
SENSOR
PROVIDE WIRING
TO TOILET SENSOR
PROVIDE WIRING TO
URINAL SENSOR
PROVIDE DUPLEX OUTLET
FOR EACH LAVATORY IN
PLUMBING CHASE
NOTE:
FAUCET & SOAP DISPENSER TRANSFORMERS TO BE
PLUGGED INTO OUTLETS LOCATED IN PLUMBING CHASE.
PROVIDE WALL PENETRATIONS & GROMMETS FOR EACH
POWER CORD.
User = PSM
Date = Tuesday, May 18, 2021 4:53:03 PM
Filename = C:\Users\PSM\Sync\PSM Projects\21920 San Mateo - Indian Springs\Con Docs\CAD Set\Sheets Indian Springs.dwg
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
FACILITIES DIVISION
 CIP
F
S
A
N
N
9
I
E
A
T
O
4
E
O
M
T
C
I
E
Y
A
C
C
N
R
O
F
I
L
A
I
8
1
D
E
T
A
R
O
P
R
O
INDIAN SPRINGS
RESTROOM REMODEL
AUGUST 27, 2021
Project # 469030
3
1
DEMOLITION PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
FLOOR PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
6
PLUMBING DIAGRAM
1/4" = 1'-0"
3
DEMOLITION REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
4
REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
B
E
B
LAV
UR
LAV
WC
WC
F
DF
G
G
1
2
1
ELECTRICAL NOTES:
1. RE-CONNECT LIGHT CONTROLS TO CAL-SENSE SYSTEM, VERIFY WITH CITY
REPRESENTATIVE
2. REUSE (E) CIRCUITS  FOR NEW ELECTRONIC DOOR STRIKES
3. PROVIDE NEW CIRCUITS AS NEEDED FOR NEW ELECTRICAL TO PLUMBING FIXTURES
AND ACCESSORIES
4. AT INTERIOR LIGHTS PROVIDE MOTION SENSORS
5. EXTERIOR LIGHTS PROVIDE PHOTOCELL
SIM.
5
ELECTRICAL DIAGRAM
1/4" = 1'-0"
GENERAL NOTES:
1. PATCH ANY WALLS TO BE EXPOSED WHERE ITEMS HAVE BEEN REMOVED
GENERAL NOTES:
1. INSTALL ACCESSORIES ON NEOLITH WAINSCOT, PROVIDE BLOCKING AS REQUIRED
2. ON END WALL IN ACCESSIBLE TOILET STALL FURR OUT NEOLITH AS NEEDED  TO PROVIDE 18" MAX
FROM CENTERLINE OF TOILET TO FACE OF WALL
3. IN WOMEN'S ACCESSIBLE STALL MOUNT STALL DOOR ON WALL & OMIT PARTITION UPRIGHT AS
NEEDED TO MAXIMIZE STALL DOOR STRIKE SIDE CLEARANCE
H
WH
1
&nbsp;
132 of&nbsp;250

--- page 133 ---
STAINLESS
STEEL
RAIL
SIGNAGE
SEE DETAIL
3/4, TYPICAL
PAINT C.M.U.
TO MATCH
(E)
PAINT C.M.U.
TO MATCH (E)
PAINT WOOD FASCIA
ACCENT COLOR TO
MATCH (E)
WOMEN
MEN
MEN
WOMEN
PAINT C.M.U.
TO MATCH
(E)
PAINT SIDING
WOOD TO
MATCH (E)
PAINT
WOOD TO
MATCH (E)
PAINT WOOD
TRIM &
LOVERS  TO
MATCH (E)
PAINT WOOD
FASCIA
ACCENT
COLOR TO
MATCH (E)
PAINT WOOD FASCIA
ACCENT COLOR TO
MATCH (E)
PAINT C.M.U.
TO MATCH
(E)
INSTALL FACE
COVER PLATE
WHERE ELECTRICAL
BOX WAS REMOVED,
TYP. OF 2
PAINT
EXPOSED
CONCRETE
TO MATCH (E)
REMOVE
DEBRIS
FROM
ROOF,
TYP.
PAINT
DOWNSPOUT,
COLOR TO
MATCH (E)
PAINT (E)
CONDUIT &
J-BOX
TOILET SEAT
COVER
DISPENSER
SOAP
DISPENSER
HAND
DRYER
LAVATORY
SIDE VIEW
TOILET & GRAB BARS
SIDE VIEW
FINISH
FLOOR
± 0' - 0"
30"
40" TO T.O. LEVER
40" TO T.O. SENSOR
6"
MAX.
8"
MIN.
29" MIN. CLR.
34" MAX. TO T.O. SINK
27" MIN. CLR.
12"
MAX.
42"
MIN.
54" MIN.
24"
MIN.
8"
19" MIN.
TO OUTLET
33" TO 36" A.F.F.
TO T.O. BAR
KEYNOTES
1.
CBC 11B-309 (1) FAUCET CONTROLS &
OPERATING MECHANISMS OF FIXTURES OR
ACCESSORIES SHALL BE OPERABLE W/ ONE
HAND IN ACCORDANCE W/ THIS CHAPTER AND
SHALL NOT REQUIRE TIGHT GRASPING,
PINCHING, OR TWISTING OF THE WRIST.  THE
FORCE REQUIRED TO ACTIVATE CONTROLS
SHALL BE 5 LBS. MAX.  LEVER OPERATED, PUSH
TYPE, AND ELECTRONICALLY CONTROLLED
MECHANISMS ARE EXAMPLES OF ACCEPTABLE
DESIGNS.  SELF-CLOSING VALVES AREA
ALLOWED IF THE FACET REMAINS OPEN FOR
AT LEAST 10 SECONDS.  SINKS SHALL BE 6.5"
DEEP MAX (11B-606.7).
2.
INSTALL PROTECTIVE COVERING INSULATION
ON ALL EXPOSED PIPES BELOW SINKS &
LAVATORIES TO COMPLY W/ STATE & LOCAL
CODES.  THERE SHALL BE NO SHARP OR
ABRASIVE SURFACES UNDER SINKS &
LAVATORIES.  (CBC 11B-606.5)
3.
1.25" MIN. / 2" MAX DIA. GRAB BAR.  (CBC
11B-609.8)
4.
ANCHOR ALL FIXTURES & ACCESSORIES PER
MANUFACTURER'S SPECIFICATIONS.
5.
NEW  HANDLES, PULLS, LATCHES, LOCKS,
LIGHT SWITCHES, & OTHER OPERABLE PARTS
ON DOORS & GATES SHALL COMPLY W/ CBC
SECTION 11B-309.4  OPERABLE PARTS OF SUCH
HARDWARE SHALL BE 34" MIN. & 44" MAX.
ABOVE THE FINISHED FLOOR.  (CBC 11B-404.2.7)
4
4
1
2
4
3
9" MIN.
CLR.
11"
MIN.
17"
MAX.
9"
30"
MIN. CLR.
13 1/2"
MIN.
URINAL
SIDE VIEW
URINAL & PARTITIONS
FRONT VIEW
15" MIN.
15" MIN.
4
36"
2'-0"
1'-0"
7'-0" MIN. CLR. TO B.O.
PARTITION BRACE
PAINT (E) C.M.U.
& RETURN
PAINT (E) WOOD
WALL FINISH  &
CEILING
ABOVE
(N) FLOOR
FINISH OVER (E)
CONCRETE
CURB
33" TO 36"  TO.
T.O. BAR
6" CLR.
40" MAX.
TO B.O.
REFLECTIVE
SURFACE
NOTE:
SEE DETAIL 5/4 FOR
ACCESSORIES & FIXTURE
MOUNTING HEIGHTS &
CLEARANCES
30" CLR.
MIN.
2'-6"
(N) NEOLITH
WAINSCOT
OVER (E) C.M.U.
1.
11B-602.1: DRINKING FOUNTAINS SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-307 & 11B-602.
2.
11B-602.2: CLEAR FLOOR SPACE PER CBC 11B-305 AND KNEE & TOE SPACE PER 11B-306: SEE SIDE VIEW 5B.
3.
11B-602.3: OPERABLE PARTS SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-309. CONTROLS SHALL BE OPERABLE WITH ONE HAND & SHALL NOT REQUIRE TIGHT GRASPING, PINCHING OR TWISTING OF THE WRIST. THE FORCE REQUIRED TO
ACTIVATE OPERABLE PARTS SHALL BE 5 LBS. MAX. THE FLOW OF WATER SHALL BE ACTIVATED BY A LEVER OR BUTTON THAT IS FRONT OR SIDE MOUNTED WITHIN 6" OF THE FRONT EDGE OF THE FOUNTAIN.
4.
11B-602.4: SPOUT OUTLETS SHALL BE 36" MAX. ABOVE FINISHED FLOOR AT LOW DRINKING FOUNTAIN.
5.
11B-602.5: THE SPOUT SHALL BE LOCATED 15" MIN. FROM THE VERTICAL SUPPORT AND 5" MAX. FROM THE FRONT EDGE OF THE UNIT, INCLUDING BUMPERS. SEE SIDE VIEW 5B.
6.
11B-602.6: THE SPOUT SHALL PROVIDE A FLOW OF WATER 4" HIGH MIN. AND SHALL BE LOCATED 5" MAX. FROM THE FRONT OF THE UNIT. THE ANGLE OF THE WATER STREAM SHALL BE MEASURED HORIZONTALLY RELATIVE TO THE
FRONT FACE OF THE UNIT. WHERE SPOUTS ARE LOCATED LESS THAN 3" PF THE FRONT OF THE UNIT, THE ANGLE OF THE WATER STREAM SHALL BE 30° MAXIMUM. WHERE SPOUTS ARE LOCATE BETWEEN 3"-5" MAX. FROM THE
FRONT OF THE UNIT, THE ANGLE OF WATER STREAM SHALL BE 15° MAX.
7.
11B-602.7: SPOUT OUTLETS FOR FOUNTAINS FOR STANDING PERSONS SHALL BE 38" MIN. AND 43" MAX. ABOVE THE FINISH FLOOR.
8.
11B-602.8: WALL AND POST-MOUNTED CANTILEVERED UNITS SHALL BE 18" MIN & 19" MAX. IN DEPTH.
9.
11B-602.9: DRINKING FOUNTAINS SHALL BE WITHIN ALCOVES, BETWEEN WING WALLS/GUARDRAIL BARRIERS, AND SHALL NOT ENCROACH INTO PEDESTRIAN WAYS. THE PROTECTED AREA WITHIN WHICH A UNIT IS LOCATED SHALL
BE 32" WIDE MIN. AND 18" DEEP MIN., AND SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC 11B-305.7. WHEN USED, WING WALLS OR GUARDRAIL BARRIERS SHALL PROJECT HORIZONTALLY AT LEAST AS FAR AS THE UNIT AND TO WITHIN 6" VERTICALLY
FROM THE FINISH FLOOR.
10. INSTALL BLOCKING TO WALL AS REQUIRED TO ANCHOR D.F. & GUARD RAILS. G.C. TO VERIFY THAT ALL DIMENSIONS & CLEARANCES ARE COMPLIANT WITH CBC 11B-305-306.
16"
15"
1'-3"
MATCH
FOUNTAIN
DEPTH
30"X48" CLEAR
FLOOR SPACE
B
C
A
CLEAR SPACE TO BE
CENTERED OF LOW
DRINKING FOUNTAIN
PLAN VIEW
SPOUT
36"
38" - 43" A.F.F.
36" MAX.
27" MIN.
30" CLR.
FLR. SPACE
A
B
C
36" MAX.
KNEE SPACE
8"
MIN
11"
MIN.
MATCH
FOUNTAIN
DEPTH
15"
MIN.
9"
MIN.
6"
MAX.
TOE SPACE
18" MIN.
19" MAX.
6"
FOUNTAIN
BEYOND
TOE RAIL
(E) WASTE LINE VENT,
MODIFY AS NEEDED FOR
(N) DRINKING FOUNTAIN
(E) WATER LINE,MODIFY
AS NEEDED FOR (N)
DRINKING FOUNTAIN
REMOVE
(E) WASTE
LINES
APPROXIMATE LOCATION
OF (N) WASTE LINE FOR
(N) DRINKING FOUNTAIN
(N) WASTE LINE TO
CROSS IN FRONT OF (E)
CONDUIT TO REMAIN,
PROVIDE SUPPORT
BRACKETS AS NEEDED
(E) ELECTRICAL
TO REMAIN
(N) WASTE LINE TO
CROSS IN FRONT OF (E)
CONDUIT TO REMAIN,
PROVIDE SUPPORT
BRACKETS AS NEEDED
REMOVE
SECTIONS
OF (E)
WASTE
LINES
REMOVE SECTION
OF WATER LINE
(E) WASTE LINE VENT,
MODIFY AS NEEDED FOR
(N) DRINKING FOUNTAIN
NOTE:
SOLIDLY GROUT & INFILL ALL ABANDONED
PENETRATIONS IN C.M.U. WALL
NOTE:
ADD TAP TO MAIN WATER LINE FOR
CHLORINATION TESTING, CONFIRM
LOCATION WITH CITY REPRESENTATIVE.
5
ACCESSIBLE RESTROOM FIXTURE MOUNTING DETAILS
1/2" = 1'-0"
3
PLUMBING DIAGRAMS
N.T.S.
User = PSM
Date = Tuesday, May 18, 2021 4:53:03 PM
Filename = C:\Users\PSM\Sync\PSM Projects\21920 San Mateo - Indian Springs\Con Docs\CAD Set\Sheets Indian Springs.dwg
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
FACILITIES DIVISION
 CIP
F
S
A
N
N
9
I
E
A
T
O
4
E
O
M
T
C
I
E
Y
A
C
C
N
R
O
F
I
L
A
I
8
1
D
E
T
A
R
O
P
R
O
INDIAN SPRINGS
RESTROOM REMODEL
AUGUST 27, 2021
Project # 469030
4
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
INTERIOR ELEVATION
3/8" = 1'-0"
C
LAV
UR
WC
D
A
4
ACCESSIBLE DRINKING FOUNTAIN
1/2" = 1'-0"
PAINT COLORS:
ACCENT TRIM  T.B.D.
WALL   T.B.D.
DOORS & FRAMES  T.B.D.
1. S
2. PAINT ALL EXPOSED CONDUITS &
ELECTRICAL BOXES
H
WH
1
&nbsp;
133 of&nbsp;250

--- page 134 ---
EXHIBIT B 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS 
ARTICLE 18 - MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE  
18.01 Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five (5) years 
thereafter, insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may 
arise from or in connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his 
agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors.  
18.02 Coverage shall be at least as broad as:  
A. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering 
CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property 
damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 
per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall 
apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate 
limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.   
B. 
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), 
with limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  
C. 
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory 
Limits, and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury or disease.  
D. 
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) 
coverage form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance 
penalty provisions. 
E. 
Surety Bonds as described below. 
F. 
Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
G. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
18.03 If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits 
maintained by the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified 
minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the City. 
18.04 Self-Insured Retentions. Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At 
the option of the City, either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate 
such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; 
or the Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing 
payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The 
134 of 250

--- page 135 ---
policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be 
satisfied by either the named insured or City. 
ARTICLE 19 - OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS  
19.01 The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
A. 
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment 
furnished in connection with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, 
or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in 
the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 
20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if 
later revisions used). 
B. 
For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance 
and shall not contribute with it.  
C. 
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except with notice to the City. 
19.02 Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance  
A. 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of 
Construction coverage. Such coverage shall name the City as a loss payee as their interest 
may appear. 
B. 
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the City, an 
Installation Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall 
be obtained that provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, 
conversion or adjustment to existing buildings, structures, processes, machinery and 
equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall provide property damage coverage for 
any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, impaired, broken, or destroyed 
during the performance of the Work, including during transit, installation, and testing at the 
City’s site. 
19.03 Claims Made Policies 
A. 
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:  
1. 
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date 
of the contract or the beginning of contract work. 
2. 
Insurance must be maintained, and evidence of insurance must be provided, for at least 
five (5) years after completion of contract work.  
3. 
If coverage is cancelled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made 
policy form with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, 
the Contractor must purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of 
five (5) years after completion of contract work.  
135 of 250

--- page 136 ---
4. 
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review.  
5. 
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the 
Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos 
exclusions. If the services involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of 
Pollution shall include microbial matter, including mold.  
19.04 Acceptability of Insurers  
A. 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a 
current A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.  
19.05 Waiver of Subrogation  
A. 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor 
may acquire from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The 
Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of 
the City for all work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and subcontractors.  
19.06 Verification of Coverage  
A. 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage 
required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL 
policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work begins. However, failure to obtain 
the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies 
of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, 
at any time. 
19.07 Subcontractors  
A. 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on 
insurance required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage, subcontractors shall provide 
coverage with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13. 
19.08 Surety Bonds.  
A. 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds: 
1. 
Performance Bond 
2. 
Payment Bond 
3. 
Maintenance Bond 
B. 
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. 
If the Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is 
not necessary.  If the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a 
Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly 
executed by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the State of 
California and secured through an authorized agent with an office in California. 
136 of 250

--- page 137 ---
19.09 Special Risks or Circumstances.   
A. 
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of 
the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances. 
 
137 of 250

--- page 138 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-6068
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
May 02, 2022 
SUBJECT:
City Hall Staff Restrooms Remodel – Contract
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize a budget transfer of $410,000 and approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award 
a construction contract to Angeles Contractor, Inc. to remodel the staff restrooms at City Hall in the amount of 
$492,932.79; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $50,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to 
execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
In December 2019, the City collaborated with Huntsman Architectural Group to develop conceptual designs and cost 
estimates for 20 projects within City Hall and six others at various locations in the City. The conceptual design was finalized 
in January 2020 and includes the remodel of the staff restrooms at City Hall. Both restrooms located between the 
Information Technology and the Community Development Departments are non-conforming, do not meet the current 
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and will be remodeled and modified to conform to current ADA 
requirements, which will reduce the number of fixtures but will still be above the minimum required for occupancy. 
The construction drawings for renovation of the staff restrooms were developed by Huntsman Architectural Group. The 
scope of work includes the replacement of fixtures, partitions, flooring, wall finishes, and lighting. The City’s Building 
Department approved the construction drawings for a building permit in 2021, which were used as the basis for 
development of a fixed-price proposal utilizing a process called “job order contracting” (JOC).  The JOC process includes a 
contract for a fixed term or maximum dollar value in which a contractor is selected based on a competitive bid to perform 
various and separate job orders in the future, during the life of the contract. The JOC contract serves as an "on call" 
contracting program that is procured through one umbrella or framework contract. The contract is competitively procured 
at the onset of the program using a unit price book (UPB), unit price list construction catalog, or custom list of construction 
prices as a basis for pricing in the procurement process.  Each individual job order is then priced from that UPB and allows 
for rapid deployment of projects with a transparent pricing mechanism.
The JOC process is a competitive procurement method for construction services approved by the City Council by resolution 
on March 18, 2019, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), which permits the use of procedures 
approved by the Council that are not set forth in the purchasing ordinance. Specifically, this process involves the 
development of a detailed project list, establishment of a firm price using a unit price book, and the selection of a pre-
qualified construction contractor upon the City’s authorization to proceed, all by the JOC contractor.
In this case, a multi-step process was used to tentatively select Angeles Contractor, Inc. to perform the restroom 
remodeling work, subject to Council approval. First, Sourcewell (formerly known as the National Joint Powers Alliance or 
NJPA) conducted a competitive proposal process to select The Gordian Group, Inc. (Gordian) to implement JOC on behalf 
138 of 250

--- page 139 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
of Sourcewell member agencies. Second, Gordian competitively bids and administers the JOC process with the use of 
Gordian’s unit pricing that will provide the best price to the City. This allows the City to complete required public 
improvements efficiently by eliminating the need to develop project specifications and eliminating solicitation of bids 
through a project-specific competitive bidding process. Here, Gordian used the JOC process to select Angeles Contractor, 
Inc., the low bidder, as the pre-qualified contractor selected to construct the City Hall restroom project. 
With contract approval, the procurement of materials would begin in May 2022, with construction in the fall of 2022 and 
completion before the spring of 2023. Staff recommends contract award to Angeles Contractor, Inc. because of its 
experience and availability to perform construction services.
Based on the foregoing, staff recommends for City Council to adopt a Resolution to authorize a budget transfer of 
$410,000 and approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to Angeles Contractor, Inc.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in the City Hall Improvements Project to transfer $410,000 to the City Hall Restroom 
Improvements Project and add to the project’s available fiscal year 2021-22 budget to ensure project costs can be 
sufficiently covered. The project budget is funded from the Construction Services Fund for City facility improvements.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This contract is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Contract
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Project Manager II
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
139 of 250

--- page 140 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
 
AUTHORIZING A BUDGET TRANSFER OF $410,000 FROM THE CITY HALL IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT (46F008) 
TO THE CITY HALL RESTROOM IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT (46F007) AND APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE 
PURCHASING PROCEDURE TO AWARD A CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT TO ANGELES CONTRACTOR, INC.
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to
approve alternative purchasing procedures upon a finding that the alternative purchasing procedure is
in the best interest of the City; and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell (formerly known as NJPA) has conducted competitive bidding processes to select 
The Gordian Group, Inc. (Gordian) to implement Job Order Contracting on behalf of their member agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Job Order Contracting process allows for an umbrella construction contract to cover 
various and separate job orders during the life of the contract, and is beneficial for renovation, remodeling, or 
alterations where many small project tasks will arise, but the timing, type, and quantity of work are unknown; 
and
WHEREAS, Sourcewell and Gordian have conducted competitive bidding to select contractors to perform 
Job Order Contracting based on Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, utilizing Gordian’s Unit Price Book and contract allows the City to utilize set competitive 
prices without the need to develop project specifications and to solicit bids for each minor project tasks; and
WHEREAS, the City approved Job Order Contracting as a competitive procurement method for 
construction services by resolution on March 18, 2019 upon findings that the Job Order Contracting process with 
Gordian is in the best interests of the City; and
WHEREAS, the City Hall Staff Restroom Improvements Project (46F007) is designed and documented to 
be priced using Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, Angeles Contractor, Inc. was selected based on their experience and availability to perform 
construction services using the Gordian’s Unit Price Book; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff has determined that this is the best price available 
because companies have submitted competitive bids; and
WHEREAS, additional funding will be needed for the City Hall Staff Restrooms Improvements Project 
(46F008); and
WHEREAS, sufficient funds are available in the City Hall Improvements Project (46F008) to be 
transferred to the City Hall Staff Restrooms Improvements Project (46F007) in the amount of $410,000 to satisfy 
the additional funding needs.
140 of 250

--- page 141 ---
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
1.
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15301, this project is categorically exempt from CEQA as 
an “existing facility” because it consists of the renovation of an existing building involving negligible 
or no expansion of use.
2.
The Job Order Contracting process, as approved by City Council on March 18, 2019, utilizing Gordian’s 
contract and Unit Price Book to award a construction contract to Angeles Contractor, Inc. is in the 
best interests of the City because it offers the best price to the City and allows the City to complete 
the remodel of the restrooms at City Hall efficiently by eliminating the need to develop project 
specifications and eliminating solicitation of bids through a project specific competitive bidding 
process.
3.
A construction contract is approved in the amount of $492,932.79 with Angeles Constractor, Inc. to 
remodel the staff restrooms at City Hall.
4.
A transfer is approved in the amount of $410,000 from the City Hall Improvements Fund (46F008) to 
the City Hall Staff Restrooms Project (46F007).
5.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the contract on behalf of the City and issue 
change orders within the contingency amount.
141 of 250

--- page 142 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 1 of 27 
CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION 
This Contract is by and between. 
OWNER 
CONTRACTOR 
The City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Street 
San Mateo, California 94403 
Angeles Contractor, Inc. 
783 Phillips Drive 
City of Industry, CA 91748 
 
Owner and Contractor hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 - THE WORK 
1.01 
Work 
A. 
Work includes all labor, materials, equipment, services, and documentation necessary to 
construct the Project defined herein.  The Work may include related services such as testing, 
start-up, and commissioning, all as required by the Contract Documents. 
B. 
The Contractor shall complete all Work as specified or indicated in the Contract Documents. 
The Project is generally described as follows: 
1. 
City Hall Staff Restroom Remodel which includes site barriers; demolition and 
disposal; framing; plumbing; electrical; mechanical; new fixtures; new accessories; 
wall tile; flooring; painting; inspection; testing and closeout. 
2. 
The Site of the Work includes designated work areas described in greater detail in the 
Contract Documents but generally located at 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo, 
California. 
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY 
2.01 
Defined Terms 
A. 
Wherever used in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, a term printed with 
initial capital letters, including the term’s singular and plural forms, will have the meaning 
indicated in the definitions below. In addition to terms specifically defined, terms with initial 
capital letters in the Contract Documents include references to identified articles and 
paragraphs, and the titles of other documents or forms. 
1. 
Architect:  
a. 
Huntsman Architectural Group, 50 California St., 7th Flr, San Francisco, CA 94111 
2. 
Constituent of Concern—Asbestos, petroleum, radioactive materials, polychlorinated 
biphenyls (PCBs), hazardous waste, and any substance, product, waste, or other 
material of any nature whatsoever that is or becomes listed, regulated, or addressed 
pursuant to (a) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. §§9601 et seq. (“CERCLA”); (b) the Hazardous Materials 
Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. §§5501 et seq.; (c) the Resource Conservation and 
Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§6901 et seq. (“RCRA”); (d) the Toxic Substances Control Act, 
15 U.S.C. §§2601 et seq.; (e) the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq.; (f) the Clean 
142 of 250

--- page 143 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 2 of 27 
Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  §§7401 et seq.; or (g) any other federal, state, or local statute, law, 
rule, regulation,  ordinance, resolution, code, order, or decree regulating, relating to, or 
imposing liability or  standards of conduct concerning, any hazardous, toxic, or 
dangerous waste, substance, or material. 
3. 
Engineer:  
a. 
See Architect 
4. 
Hazardous Environmental Condition— The presence at the Site of Constituents of 
Concern in such quantities or circumstances that may present a danger to persons or 
property exposed thereto. The presence at the Site of materials that are necessary for 
the execution of the Work, or that are to be incorporated in the Work, and that are 
controlled and contained pursuant to industry practices, Laws and Regulations, and the 
requirements of the Contract, does not establish a Hazardous Environmental Condition. 
5. 
Resident Project Representative - The authorized representative of Owner assigned to 
assist Owner at the Site. As used herein, the term Resident Project Representative or 
“RPR” includes any assistants or field staff of Resident Project Representative.  The RPR 
for this project is: 
a. 
Steve Wu, City of San Mateo 
2.02 
Terminology 
A. 
The words and terms discussed in the following paragraphs are not defined but, when used 
in the Bidding Requirements or Contract Documents, have the indicated meaning. 
B. 
Intent of Certain Terms or Adjectives: 
1. 
The Contract Documents include the terms “as allowed,” “as approved,” “as ordered,” 
“as directed” or terms of like effect or import to authorize an exercise of professional 
judgment by Owner, Engineer, or Architect. In addition, the adjectives “reasonable,” 
“suitable,” “acceptable,” “proper,” “satisfactory,” or adjectives of like effect or import 
are used to describe an action or determination of Engineer as to the Work. It is 
intended that such exercise of professional judgment, action, or determination will be 
solely to evaluate, in general, the Work for compliance with the information in the 
Contract Documents and with the design concept of the Project as a functioning whole 
as shown or indicated in the Contract Documents (unless there is a specific statement 
indicating otherwise). The use of any such term or adjective is not intended to and shall 
not be effective to assign to Engineer any duty or authority to supervise or direct the 
performance of the Work, or any duty or authority to undertake responsibility contrary 
to the provisions of any provision of the Contract Documents. 
C. 
Day: 
1. 
The word “day” means a calendar day of 24 hours measured from midnight to the next 
midnight. 
D. 
Defective: 
1. 
The word “defective,” when modifying the word “Work,” refers to Work that is 
unsatisfactory, faulty, or deficient in that it: 
a. 
does not conform to the Contract Documents; or 
143 of 250

--- page 144 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 3 of 27 
b. 
does not meet the requirements of any applicable inspection, reference standard, 
test, or approval referred to in the Contract Documents; or 
c. 
has been damaged prior to Engineer’s recommendation of final payment (unless 
responsibility for the protection thereof has been assumed by Owner at Substantial 
Completion. 
E. 
Furnish, Install, Perform, Provide: 
1. 
The word “furnish,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to supply and deliver said services, materials, or equipment to the Site (or 
some other specified location) ready for use or installation and in usable or operable 
condition. 
2. 
The word “install,” when used in connection with services, materials, or equipment, 
shall mean to put into use or place in final position said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use. 
3. 
The words “perform” or “provide,” when used in connection with services, materials, or 
equipment, shall mean to furnish and install said services, materials, or equipment 
complete and ready for intended use. 
4. 
If the Contract Documents establish an obligation of Contractor with respect to specific 
services, materials, or equipment, but do not expressly use any of the four words 
“furnish,” “install,” “perform,” or “provide,” then Contractor shall furnish and install 
said services, materials, or equipment complete and ready for intended use. 
F. 
Unless stated otherwise in the Contract Documents, words or phrases that have a well- 
known technical or construction industry or trade meaning are used in the Contract 
Documents in accordance with such recognized meaning. 
2.03 
Contract Documents Defined 
A. 
The Contract Documents consist of the following documents: 
1. 
This Contract. 
2. 
Performance bond. 
3. 
Payment bond. 
4. 
Exhibits to this Contract (enumerated as follows): 
a. 
Exhibit A - Contractor’s Proposal 
b. 
Exhibit B – Insurance Requirements for Construction Contracts. 
5. 
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 2: IQCC Standard Terms and Conditions and 
Contract General Conditions. 
6. 
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task Catalog. 
7. 
National Joint Powers Alliance Book 4: Technical Specifications. 
8. 
The following which may be delivered or issued on or after the Effective Date of the 
Contract: 
a. 
Work Change Directives. 
144 of 250

--- page 145 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 4 of 27 
b. 
Change Orders. 
c. 
Field Orders. 
ARTICLE 3 - CONTRACT DOCUMENTS 
3.01 
Intent of Contract Documents 
A. 
It is the intent of the Contract Documents to describe a functionally complete project. The 
Contract Documents do not indicate or describe all the Work required to complete the 
Project. Additional details required for the correct installation of selected products are to be 
provided by the Contractor and coordinated with the Owner and RPR. This Contract 
supersedes prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, whether written or oral. 
The Contract Documents are complementary; what is required by one part of the Contract 
Documents is as binding as if required by other parts of the Contract Documents. 
B. 
During the performance of the Work and until final payment, Contractor and Owner shall 
submit all matters in question concerning the requirements of the Contract Documents or 
relating to the acceptability of the Work under the Contract Documents to the RPR. RPR will 
be the initial interpreter of the requirements of the Contract Documents, and judge of the 
acceptability of the Work thereunder. 
C. 
RPR will render a written clarification, interpretation, or decision on the issue submitted, or 
initiate a modification to the Contract Documents. 
D. 
Contractor, and its subcontractors and suppliers, shall not have or acquire any title to or 
ownership rights to any of the Drawings, Specifications, or other documents (including copies 
or electronic media editions) prepared by RPR or its consultants. 
3.02 
Reporting and Resolving Discrepancies 
A. 
Reporting Discrepancies: 
1. 
Contractor’s Verification of Figures and Field Measurements: Before undertaking each 
part of the Work, Contractor shall carefully study the Contract Documents, and check 
and verify pertinent figures and dimensions therein, particularly with respect to 
applicable field measurements. Contractor shall promptly report in writing to Engineer 
any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy that Contractor discovers, or has actual 
knowledge of, and shall not proceed with any Work affected thereby until the conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation by 
Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents. 
2. 
Contractor’s Review of Contract Documents: If, before or during the performance of the 
Work, Contractor discovers any conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy within the 
Contract Documents, or between the Contract Documents and (a) any applicable Law 
or Regulation, (b) actual field conditions, (c) any standard specification, manual, 
reference standard, or code, or (d) any instruction of any Supplier, then Contractor shall 
promptly report it to Engineer in writing. Contractor shall not proceed with the Work 
affected thereby (except in an emergency as required by Paragraph 7.15) until the 
conflict, error, ambiguity, or discrepancy is resolved, by a clarification or interpretation 
by Engineer, or by an amendment or supplement to the Contract Documents issued 
pursuant to Paragraph 11.01. 
145 of 250

--- page 146 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 5 of 27 
3. 
Contractor shall not be liable to Owner or Engineer for failure to report any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy in the Contract Documents unless Contractor had 
actual knowledge thereof. 
B. 
Resolving Discrepancies: 
1. 
Except as may be otherwise specifically stated in the Contract Documents, the 
provisions of the Contract Documents shall take precedence in resolving any conflict, 
error, ambiguity, or discrepancy between such provisions of the Contract Documents 
and: 
a. 
the provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document); or 
b. 
the provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation). 
2. 
When a conflict exists between drawings or between drawings and details, the more 
stringent of the two shall prevail.  When a conflict exists between two specifications, 
the more stringent of the two shall prevail. 
3. 
In the event of a conflict that cannot be resolved by interpreting the Contract 
Documents as a single, integrated document and giving effect to each provision therein, 
the Contract Document higher in precedence shall control and supersede the Contract 
Documents lower in precedence in accordance with the following listing arranged from 
the highest to the lowest in precedence:  
a. 
Change Order. 
b. 
Addenda. 
c. 
Contract. 
d. 
Technical Specifications included as an Exhibit to this Contract. 
e. 
Drawings included as an Exhibit to this Contract. 
f. 
Owner Standard Specifications. 
g. 
Owner Standard Drawings. 
h. 
National Joint Powers Alliance Book 4: Technical Specifications. 
i. 
National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 2: IQCC Standard Terms and Conditions and 
Contract General Conditions. 
j. 
The provisions of any standard specification, manual, reference standard, or code, 
or the instruction of any Supplier (whether or not specifically incorporated by 
reference as a Contract Document). 
k. 
The provisions of any Laws or Regulations applicable to the performance of the 
Work (unless such an interpretation of the provisions of the Contract Documents 
would result in violation of such Law or Regulation). 
l. 
Notice to Bidder. 
146 of 250

--- page 147 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 6 of 27 
m. Instruction to Bidder. 
ARTICLE 4 - CONTRACT TIMES 
4.01 
Contract Times 
A. 
The Work will be substantially completed within 365 days after the Effective Date of the 
Contract and completed and ready for final payment within 395 days after the Effective Date 
of the Contract. 
4.02 
Liquidated Damages 
A. 
Contractor and Owner recognize that time is of the essence in the performance of the 
Contract, and that Owner will incur damages if Contractor does not complete the Work 
according to the requirements of Paragraph 4.01. Because such damages for delay would be 
difficult and costly to determine and the parties agree that $1000 per day is a reasonable 
approximation of the Owner’s damages, Owner and Contractor agree that as liquidated 
damages for delay (but not as a penalty) Contractor shall pay Owner $1000 for each day that 
expires after the Contract Time for substantial completion. 
4.03 
Delays in Contractor’s Progress 
A. 
If Owner, RPR, or anyone for whom Owner is responsible, delays, disrupts, or interferes with 
the performance or progress of the Work, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable 
adjustment in the Contract Times and Contract Price. Contractor’s entitlement to an 
adjustment of the Contract Times is conditioned on such adjustment being essential to 
Contractor’s ability to complete the Work within the Contract Times. 
B. 
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for 
delay, disruption, or interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or their 
subcontractors or suppliers. 
C. 
If Contractor’s performance or progress is delayed, disrupted, or interfered with by 
unanticipated causes not the fault of and beyond the control of Owner, Contractor, and those 
for which they are responsible, then Contractor shall be entitled to an equitable adjustment 
in Contract Times. 
D. 
Contractor shall not be entitled to an adjustment in Contract Price or Contract Times for any 
delay, disruption, or interference if such delay is concurrent with a delay, disruption, or 
interference caused by or within the control of Contractor or Contractor’s subcontractors or 
suppliers. 
4.04 
Progress Schedules 
A. 
Contractor shall develop a progress schedule and submit to the RPR for review and comment 
before starting Work on the Site. The Contractor shall modify the schedule in accordance 
with the comments provided by the RPR. 
B. 
The Contractor shall update and submit the progress schedule to the RPR each month. The 
Owner may withhold payment if the Contractor fails to submit the schedule. 
147 of 250

--- page 148 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 7 of 27 
ARTICLE 5 - CONTRACT PRICE 
5.01 
Payment 
A. 
Owner shall pay Contractor in accordance with the Contract Documents, the lump sum 
amount of $492,932.79 for all Work. 
B. 
For any additional Work authorized by Owner, Owner shall pay Contractor in an amount 
equal to the total of all extended prices for actual Work completed. The extended price is 
determined by multiplying the unit price in the National Joint Powers Alliance - Book 3: Task 
Catalog times the actual quantity of that Work item completed. Actual quantities installed 
will be determined by the RPR. 
ARTICLE 6 - BONDS AND INSURANCE 
6.01 
Bonds 
A. 
Before starting Work, Contractor shall furnish a performance bond and a payment bond from 
surety companies that are duly licensed or authorized to issue bonds in the required amounts 
in the jurisdiction in which the Project is located. Each bond shall be in an amount equal to 
the Contract Price, as security for the faithful performance and payment of all of Contractor’s 
obligations under the Contract. These bonds shall remain in effect until the completion of 
the correction period specified in Paragraph 7.12 but, in any case, not less than one year 
after the date when final payment becomes due. 
B. 
Performance by Sureties.  In the event of any termination, Owner shall immediately give 
written notice to Contractor and Contractor’s sureties, and the sureties shall have the right 
to take over and perform the Contract, provided, however, that if the sureties, within five 
days after giving them notice of said termination, do not give Owner written notice of their 
intention to take over the performance thereof within five days after notice, Owner may take 
over the work and prosecute the same to completion, by contract or by any other method it 
may deem advisable, for the account, and at the expense of Contractor, and the sureties shall 
be liable to Owner for any excess cost or damages occasioned Owner thereby; and, in such 
event, Owner may, without liability for so doing, take possession of, and utilize in completing 
the work, such materials, appliances, plant and other property belonging to Contractor as 
may be on the site of the work and necessary therefore 
6.02 
Insurance 
A. 
The Contractor shall procure and maintain the insurance specified in the Exhibit B of this 
Contract for the greater of (1) the duration of the contract plus a period of five (5) years after 
completion of the Project or (2) the duration shown in Exhibit B. 
ARTICLE 7 - CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES 
7.01 
Supervision and Superintendence 
A. 
Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work competently and efficiently, devoting such 
attention thereto and applying such skills and expertise as may be necessary to perform the 
Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. Contractor shall be solely responsible for 
the means, methods, techniques, sequences, safety, and procedures of construction. 
148 of 250

--- page 149 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 8 of 27 
B. 
Contractor shall assign a competent resident superintendent who is to be present at all times 
during the execution of the Work. This resident superintendent shall not be replaced without 
written notice to and approval by the Owner and RPR except under extraordinary 
circumstances. 
C. 
Contractor shall at all times maintain good discipline and order at the Site. 
D. 
Except as otherwise required for the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property 
at the Site or adjacent thereto, and except as otherwise stated in the Contract Documents, 
all Work at the Site shall be performed during regular working hours, Monday through Friday. 
7.02 
Other Work at the Site 
A. 
In addition to and apart from the Work of the Contractor, other work may occur at or 
adjacent to the Site. Contractor shall take reasonable and customary measures to avoid 
damaging, delaying, disrupting, or interfering with the work of Owner, any other contractor, 
or any utility owner performing other work at or adjacent to the Site. 
7.03 
Services, Materials, and Equipment 
A. 
Unless otherwise specified in the Contract Documents, Contractor shall provide and assume 
full responsibility for all services, materials, equipment, labor, transportation, construction 
equipment and machinery, tools, appliances, fuel, power, light, heat, telephone, water, 
sanitary facilities, temporary facilities, and all other facilities and incidentals necessary for 
the performance, testing, start up, and completion of the Work, whether or not such items 
are specifically called for in the Contract Documents. 
B. 
All materials and equipment incorporated into the Work shall be new, of good quality and 
shall be stored, applied, installed, connected, erected, protected, used, cleaned, and 
conditioned in accordance with instructions of the applicable supplier, except as otherwise 
may be provided in the Contract Documents. 
7.04 
Subcontractors and Suppliers 
A. 
Contractor may retain subcontractors and suppliers for the performance of parts of the Work 
acceptable to Owner, provided that no work may be performed by a subcontractor who is 
debarred pursuant to Labor Code Sections 1777.1 or 1777.7.  
7.05 
Quality Management 
A. 
Contractor is fully responsible for the managing quality to ensure Work is completed in 
accordance with the Contract Documents. 
7.06 
Licenses, Fees and Permits 
A. 
Contractor shall pay all license fees and royalties and assume all costs incident to performing 
the Work or the incorporation in the Work of any invention, design, process, product, or 
device which is the subject of patent rights or copyrights held by others. 
B. 
Contractor shall obtain and pay for all construction permits and licenses unless otherwise 
provided in the Contract Documents. 
7.07 
Laws and Regulations; Taxes 
A. 
Contractor shall give all notices required by and shall comply with all local, state, and federal 
Laws and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Except where otherwise 
149 of 250

--- page 150 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 9 of 27 
expressly required by applicable Laws and Regulations, neither Owner nor RPR shall be 
responsible for monitoring Contractor’s compliance with any Laws or Regulations. 
B. 
Contractor shall bear all resulting costs and losses, and shall indemnify and hold harmless 
Owner and RPR, and the officers, directors, members, partners, employees, agents, 
consultants, and subcontractors of each and any of them from and against all claims, costs, 
losses, and damages if Contractor performs any Work or takes any other action knowing or 
having reason to know that it is contrary to Laws or Regulations. 
C. 
Contractor shall pay all applicable sales, consumer, use, and other similar taxes Contractor is 
required to pay in accordance with Laws and Regulations. 
D. 
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 7103.5, the contractor offers and agrees to 
assign to the awarding body all rights, title, and interest in and to all causes of action it may 
have under Section 4 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. Sec. 15) or under the Cartwright Act 
(Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 16700) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Business and 
Professions Code), arising from purchases of goods, services, or materials pursuant to the 
public works contract or the subcontract.  This assignment shall be made and become 
effective at the time the awarding body tenders final payment to the contractor, without 
further acknowledgment by the parties.  
E. 
Contractor shall give notice of hazardous materials and certain changed conditions in jobs 
involving trenching more than four feet deep.   
F. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1773.2, contractor will make travel and subsistence 
payments as required by statute.   
G. In accordance with Labor Code Section 1771, contractor must pay prevailing wages.  The 
prevailing wage scale as determined by the Director of Industrial Relations of the State of 
California, in force on the day the bid was announced, will be the minimum paid to all 
craftsmen and laborers working on this project.  Contractor shall also require any 
subcontractors who work or provide any services related to the project to pay all persons 
performing labor or rendering service under said subcontract or other arrangement at least 
the general prevailing rate of wages, determined as set forth herein for the respective crafts 
and employments, including such wages for holiday and overtime work.  A copy of the correct 
determination will be posted at the job site.  It is understood that it is the responsibility of 
Contractor to determine the correct scale.  Copies of the prevailing wage rates are on file at 
the City Clerk’s office; however, errors or defects in the materials in the City Clerk’s office will 
not excuse a bidder’s failure to comply with the actual scale then in force.  In accordance 
with Labor Code Section 1775, the statutory provisions for failure to pay prevailing wages 
will be enforced. 
H. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1776, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to certified copies of payroll records.   
I. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1777.5, contractor must comply with the statutory 
requirements relating to the employment of apprentices.   
J. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1810, eight hours labor constitutes a legal day’s work.  
Contractor shall not require more than eight hours’ labor in a day and 40 hours in a calendar 
week from any person employed by Contractor in the performance of such work unless such 
excess work is compensated for at not less than one and one-half times the basic rate of pay.  
Contractor shall forfeit as a penalty to Owner the sum of $25.00 for each laborer, workman, 
150 of 250

--- page 151 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 10 of 27 
or mechanic employed in the execution of this contract by Contractor, or by any 
subcontractor, for each calendar day during which such laborer, workman, or mechanic is 
required or permitted to labor more than eight hours in any calendar day and 40 hours in 
any one calendar week in violation of the provisions of Section 1810 and 1816, inclusive, of 
the Labor Code of the State of California.   
K. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1813, the statutory provisions for penalties for failure 
to comply with wage and hour laws will be enforced.   
L. 
In accordance with Labor Code Section 1860, the contractor must secure the payment of 
workers’ compensation to its employees.   
M. In accordance with Labor Code Section 6705, the contractor must submit a detailed plan of 
the shoring and bracing for trenches five feet deep or more for contracts in excess of $25,000.   
N. In accordance with Labor Code Sections 1725.5 and 1771.1, all contractors and 
subcontractors must be registered with the Department of Industrial Relations.  In 
accordance with Labor Code Section 1771.4, the contractor must post job site notices as 
required by regulation and this project will be subject to compliance monitoring and 
enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations.   
7.08 
Record Documents 
A. 
Contractor shall maintain one printed record copy of all Drawings, Specifications, Addenda, 
Change Orders, Work Change Directives, Field Orders, written interpretations and 
clarifications, and approved shop drawings in a safe place at the Site. Contractor shall 
annotate them to show changes made during construction. Contractor shall deliver these 
record documents to RPR upon completion of the Work. 
7.09 
Safety and Protection 
A. 
Contractor shall be solely responsible for initiating, maintaining, and supervising all safety 
precautions and programs in connection with the Work. 
B. 
Contractor shall take all necessary precautions for the safety of, and shall provide the 
necessary protection to prevent damage, injury, or loss to: 
1. 
All persons on the Site or who may be affected by the Work; 
2. 
All the Work and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in 
storage on or off the Site; and 
3. 
Other property at the Site or adjacent thereto, including trees, shrubs, lawns, walks, 
pavements, roadways, structures, other work in progress, utilities, and underground 
facilities not designated for removal, relocation, or replacement in the course of 
construction. 
C. 
All damage, injury, or loss to any property caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
by Contractor, or anyone for whose acts the Contractor may be liable, shall be remedied by 
Contractor at its expense (except damage or loss attributable to the fault of Contract 
Documents or to the acts or omissions of Owner or RPR and not attributable, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, to the fault or negligence of Contractor). 
D. 
Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating any exchange of material safety data sheets 
or other hazard communication information required to be made available to or exchanged 
between or among employers at the Site in accordance with Laws or Regulations. 
151 of 250

--- page 152 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 11 of 27 
E. 
In emergencies affecting the safety or protection of persons or the Work or property at the 
Site or adjacent thereto, Contractor shall act to prevent threatened damage, injury, or loss. 
Contractor shall give RPR prompt written notice if Contractor believes that any significant 
changes in the Work or variations from the Contract Documents have been caused thereby 
or are required as a result thereof. If RPR determines that a change in the Contract 
Documents is required because of the action taken by Contractor in response to such an 
emergency, a Work Change Directive or Change Order will be issued. 
7.10 
Shop Drawings, Samples, and Other Submittals 
A. 
Contractor shall review and coordinate the shop drawing and samples with the requirements 
of the Work and the Contract Documents and shall verify all related field measurements, 
quantities, dimensions, specified performance and design criteria, installation requirements, 
materials, catalog numbers, and similar information. 
B. 
Each submittal shall bear a stamp or specific written certification that Contractor has satisfied 
Contractor’s obligations under the Contract Documents with respect to Contractor’s review 
of that submittal, and that Contractor approves the submittal. 
C. 
With each submittal, Contractor shall give RPR specific written notice, in a communication 
separate from the submittal, of any variations that the shop drawing or sample may have 
from the requirements of the Contract Documents. 
D. 
RPR will provide timely review of shop drawings and samples. 
E. 
RPR’s review and approval will not extend to means, methods, techniques, sequences, or 
procedures of construction or to safety precautions or programs. 
F. 
RPR’s review and approval of a separate item does not indicate approval of the assembly in 
which the item functions. 
G. Contractor shall make corrections required by RPR and shall return the required number of 
corrected copies of shop drawings and submit, as required, new samples for review and 
approval. Contractor shall direct specific attention in writing to revisions other than the 
corrections called for by RPR on previous submittals. 
H. 
Shop drawings are not Contract Documents. 
7.11 
Warranties and Guarantees 
A. 
Contractor warrants and guarantees to Owner that all Work will be in accordance with the 
Contract Documents and will not be defective. RPR and its officers, directors, members, 
partners, employees, agents, consultants, and subcontractors shall be entitled to rely on 
Contractor’s warranty and guarantee. 
7.12 
Correction Period 
A. 
If within one year after the date of substantial completion, any Work is found to be defective, 
or if the repair of any damages to the Site, adjacent areas that Contractor has arranged to 
use through construction easements or otherwise, and other adjacent areas used by 
Contractor as permitted by Laws and Regulations, is found to be defective, then Contractor 
shall promptly and without cost to Owner, correct such defective Work. 
152 of 250

--- page 153 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 12 of 27 
7.13 
Indemnification 
A. 
To the fullest extent permitted by Laws and Regulations, and in addition to any other 
obligations of Contractor under the Contract or otherwise, Contractor shall indemnify and 
hold harmless Owner and RPR, and the officials, employees, and agents, of each and any of 
them from and against all claims, costs, losses, and damages (including but not limited to all 
fees and charges of RPR, architects, attorneys, and other professionals and all court or 
arbitration or other dispute resolution costs) arising out of or relating to the performance of 
the Work.  Contractor will defend Owner, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and 
agents against any such claims.  However, this provision does not apply to claims, loss, 
liability, damage, or expense arising from the sole negligence or willful misconduct of the 
Owner 
ARTICLE 8 - OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES 
8.01 
Owner’s Responsibilities 
A. 
Except as otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, Owner shall issue all 
communications to Contractor through RPR. 
B. 
Owner shall make payments to Contractor as provided in this Contract. 
C. 
Owner shall provide Site and easements required to construct the Project. 
D. 
If Owner intends to contract with others for the performance of other work at or adjacent to 
the Site, unless stated elsewhere in the Contract Documents, Owner shall have sole authority 
and responsibility for such coordination. 
E. 
The Owner shall be responsible for performing inspections and tests required by applicable 
codes. 
F. 
The Owner shall not supervise, direct, or have control or authority over, nor be responsible 
for, Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or 
the safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws 
and Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. Owner will not be responsible 
for Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. 
G. While at the Site, Owner’s employees and representatives shall comply with the specific 
applicable requirements of Contractor’s safety programs of which Owner has been informed. 
H. 
Owner shall furnish copies of any applicable Owner safety programs to Contractor. 
I. 
In accordance with Public Contract Code Section 9201, Owner shall give contractor timely 
notification of the receipt of any third-party claims relating to the contract.  
ARTICLE 9 - RPR’S STATUS DURING CONSTRUCTION 
9.01 
RPR’s Status 
A. 
RPR will be Owner’s representative during construction. The duties and responsibilities and 
the limitations of authority of RPR as Owner’s representative during construction are set 
forth in this Contract. 
B. 
Neither RPR’s authority or responsibility under this Article 9 or under any other provision of 
the Contract, nor any decision made by RPR in good faith either to exercise or not exercise 
153 of 250

--- page 154 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 13 of 27 
such authority or responsibility or the undertaking, exercise, or performance of any authority 
or responsibility by RPR, shall create, impose, or give rise to any duty in contract, tort, or 
otherwise owed by RPR to Contractor, any subcontractor, any supplier, any other individual 
or entity, or to any surety for or employee or agent of any of them. 
C. 
RPR will make visits to the Site at intervals appropriate to the various stages of construction. 
RPR will not be required to make exhaustive or continuous inspections on the Site to check 
the quality or quantity of the Work. 
D. 
RPR has the authority to reject Work if Contractor fails to perform Work in accordance with 
the Contract Documents. 
E. 
RPR will render decisions regarding the requirements of the Contract Documents and judge 
the acceptability of the Work. 
F. 
RPR will not supervise, direct, control, or have authority over or be responsible for 
Contractor’s means, methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures of construction, or the 
safety precautions and programs, or for any failure of Contractor to comply with Laws and 
Regulations applicable to the performance of the Work. RPR will not be responsible for 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents. 
ARTICLE 10 - CHANGES IN THE WORK 
10.01 Authority to Change the Work 
A. 
Without invalidating the Contract and without notice to any surety, Owner may, at any time 
or from time to time, order additions, deletions, or revisions in the Work. 
10.02 Change Orders 
A. 
Owner and Contractor shall execute appropriate Change Orders covering: 
1. 
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times which are agreed to by the parties, 
including any undisputed sum or amount of time for Work actually performed in 
accordance with a Work Change Directive; 
2. 
Changes in the Work which are: (a) ordered by Owner or (b) agreed to by the parties or 
(c) resulting from the RPR’s decision, subject to the need for RPR’s recommendation if 
the change in the Work involves the design (as set forth in the Drawings, Specifications, 
or otherwise), or other engineering or technical matters; and 
3. 
Changes in the Contract Price or Contract Times or other changes which embody the 
substance of any final binding results under Article 12. 
B. 
If the provisions of any bond require notice to be given to a surety of any change affecting 
the general scope of the Work or the provisions of the Contract Documents (including, but 
not limited to, Contract Price or Contract Times), the giving of any such notice will be 
Contractor’s responsibility. The amount of each applicable bond will be adjusted to reflect 
the effect of any such change. 
154 of 250

--- page 155 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 14 of 27 
ARTICLE 11 - DIFFERING SUBSURFACE OR PHYSICAL CONDITIONS 
11.01 Differing Conditions Process 
A. 
If Contractor believes that any subsurface or physical condition including but not limited to 
utilities or other underground facilities that are uncovered or revealed at the Site either 
differs materially from that shown or indicated in the Contract Documents or is of an unusual 
nature, and differs materially from conditions ordinarily encountered and generally 
recognized as inherent in Work of the character provided for in the Contract Documents then 
Contractor shall, promptly after becoming aware thereof and before further disturbing the 
subsurface or physical conditions or performing any Work in connection therewith (except 
in an emergency), notify Owner and RPR in writing about such condition. Contractor shall not 
further disturb such condition or perform any Work in connection therewith (except with 
respect to an emergency) until receipt of a written statement permitting Contractor to do 
so. 
B. 
After receipt of written notice, RPR will promptly: 
1. 
Review the subsurface or physical condition in question; 
2. 
Determine necessity for Owner obtaining additional exploration or tests with respect to 
the condition; 
3. 
Determine whether the condition falls within the differing site condition as stated 
herein; 
4. 
Obtain any pertinent cost or schedule information from Contractor; 
5. 
Prepare recommendations to Owner regarding the Contractor’s resumption of Work in 
connection with the subsurface or physical condition in question and the need for any 
change in the Drawings or Specifications; and 
6. 
Advise Owner in writing of RPR’s findings, conclusions, and recommendations. 
C. 
After receipt of RPR’s written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, Owner shall issue 
a written statement to Contractor regarding the subsurface or physical condition in question, 
addressing the resumption of Work in connection with such condition, indicating whether 
any change in the Drawings or Specifications will be made, and adopting or rejecting RPR’s 
written findings, conclusions, and recommendations, in whole or in part. 
ARTICLE 12 - CLAIMS AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
12.01 Claims Process 
A. 
The party submitting a claim shall deliver it directly to the other party to the Contract and 
the RPR promptly (but in no event later than 10 days) after the start of the event giving rise 
thereto. 
B. 
The party receiving a claim shall review it thoroughly, giving full consideration to its merits. 
The two parties shall seek to resolve the claim through the exchange of information and 
direct negotiations. All actions taken on a claim shall be stated in writing and submitted to 
the other party. 
155 of 250

--- page 156 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 15 of 27 
C. 
If efforts to resolve a claim are not successful, the party receiving the claim may deny it by 
giving written notice of denial to the other party. If the receiving party does not take action 
on the claim within 45 days, the claim is deemed denied. 
D. 
If the dispute is not resolved to the satisfaction of the parties, Owner or Contractor shall give 
written notice to the other party of the intent to submit the dispute to a court of competent 
jurisdiction unless the Owner and Contractor both agree to an alternative dispute resolution 
process. 
12.02 Mediation 
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall 
be agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each 
submit one name from mediators listed by the American Arbitration Association, the California 
State Board of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be 
selected by a blind draw.  The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither 
party shall be deemed the prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action 
without first meeting in mediation and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated 
settlement.  The mediation process, once commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last 
until agreement is reach by the parties but not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is 
extended by the parties. 
ARTICLE 13 - TESTS AND INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE WORK 
13.01 Tests and Inspections 
A. 
Owner and RPR will have access to the Site and the Work at reasonable times for their 
observation, inspection, and testing. Contractor shall provide them proper and safe 
conditions for such access. 
B. 
Contractor shall give RPR timely notice of readiness of the Work for all required inspections 
and tests and shall cooperate with inspection and testing personnel to facilitate required 
inspections and tests. 
C. 
If any Work that is to be inspected, tested, or approved is covered by Contractor without 
written concurrence of RPR, Contractor shall, if requested by RPR, uncover such Work for 
observation. Such uncovering shall be at Contractor’s expense. 
13.02 Defective Work 
A. 
Contractor shall ensure that the Work is not defective. 
B. 
RPR has the authority to determine whether Work is defective, and to reject defective Work. 
C. 
Prompt notice of all defective Work of which Owner or RPR has actual knowledge will be 
given to Contractor. 
D. 
The Contractor shall promptly correct all such defective Work. 
E. 
When correcting defective Work, Contractor shall take no action that would void or 
otherwise impair Owner’s special warranty and guarantee, if any, on said Work. 
F. 
If the Work is defective or Contractor fails to supply sufficient skilled workers or suitable 
materials or equipment, or fails to perform the Work in such a way that the completed Work 
156 of 250

--- page 157 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 16 of 27 
will conform to the Contract Documents, then Owner may order Contractor to stop the Work, 
or any portion thereof, until the cause for such order has been eliminated. 
ARTICLE 14 - PAYMENTS TO CONTRACTOR 
14.01 Progress Payments 
A. 
The Contractor shall prepare a schedule of values that will serve as the basis for progress 
payments. The schedule of values will be in a form of application for payment acceptable to 
RPR. The unit price breakdown submitted with the bid will be used for unit price work. Break 
lump sum items into units that will allow for measurement of Work in progress. 
14.02 Applications for Payments: 
A. 
Contractor shall submit an application for payment in a form acceptable to the RPR, no more 
frequently than monthly, to RPR. Applications for payment will be prepared and signed by 
Contractor. Contractor shall provide supporting documentation required by the Contract 
Documents. Payment will be paid for Work completed as of the date of the application for 
payment. 
B. 
Beginning with the second application for payment, each application shall include an affidavit 
of Contractor stating that all previous progress payments received on account of the Work 
have been applied on account to discharge Contractor’s legitimate obligations associated 
with prior applications for payment. 
14.03 Retainage 
A. 
The Owner shall retain 5% of each progress payment until the Work is substantially complete. 
14.04 Review of Applications 
A. 
Within 10 days after receipt of each application for payment, the RPR will either indicate in 
writing a recommendation for payment and present the application for payment to Owner 
or return the application for payment to Contractor indicating in writing RPR’s reasons for 
refusing to recommend payment. The Contractor will make the necessary corrections and 
resubmit the application for payment. 
B. 
RPR will recommend reductions in payment (set-offs) which, in the opinion of the RPR, are 
necessary to protect Owner from loss because the Work is defective and requires correction 
or replacement. 
C. 
The Owner is entitled to impose set-offs against payment based on any claims that have been 
made against Owner on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of the Work, 
incurred costs, losses, or damages on account of Contractor’s conduct in the performance of 
the Work, or liquidated damages that have accrued as a result of Contractor’s failure to 
complete the Work. 
14.05 Contractor’s Warranty of Title 
A. 
Contractor warrants and guarantees that title to all Work, materials, and equipment 
furnished under the Contract will pass to Owner free and clear of (1) all liens and other title 
defects, and (2) all patent, licensing, copyright, or royalty obligations, no later than seven 
days after the time of payment by Owner. 
157 of 250

--- page 158 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 17 of 27 
14.06 Substantial Completion 
A. 
The Contractor shall notify Owner and RPR in writing that the Work is substantially complete 
and request the RPR issue a certificate of substantial completion when Contractor considers 
the Work ready for its intended use. Contractor shall at the same time submit to Owner and 
RPR an initial draft of punch list items to be completed or corrected before final payment. 
B. 
RPR will make an inspection of the Work with the Owner and Contractor to determine the 
status of completion. If RPR does not consider the Work substantially complete, RPR will 
notify Contractor and Owner in writing giving the reasons therefor. 
C. 
If RPR considers the Work substantially complete or upon resolution of all reasons for non-
issuance of a certificate identified in 14.06.B, RPR will deliver to Owner a certificate of 
substantial completion which shall fix the date of substantial completion and include a punch 
list of items to be completed or corrected before final payment. 
14.07 Final Inspection 
A. 
Upon written notice from Contractor that the entire Work is complete, RPR will promptly 
make a final inspection with Owner and Contractor and will notify Contractor in writing of all 
particulars in which this inspection reveals that the Work, or agreed portion thereof, is 
incomplete or defective. Contractor shall immediately take such measures as are necessary 
to complete such Work or remedy such deficiencies. 
14.08 Final Payment 
A. 
Contractor may make application for final payment after Contractor has satisfactorily 
completed all Work defined in the Contract, including providing all maintenance and 
operating instructions, schedules, guarantees, bonds, certificates or other evidence of 
insurance, certificates of inspection, annotated record documents and other documents. 
B. 
The final application for payment shall be accompanied (except as previously delivered) by: 
1. 
All documentation called for in the Contract Documents; 
2. 
Consent of the surety to final payment; 
3. 
Satisfactory evidence that all title issues have been resolved such that title to all Work, 
materials, and equipment has passed to Owner free and clear of any liens or other title 
defects, or will so pass upon final payment; 
4. 
A list of all disputes that Contractor believes are unsettled; and 
5. 
Complete and legally effective releases or waivers (satisfactory to Owner) of all lien 
rights arising out of the Work, and of liens filed in connection with the Work. 
C. 
The Work is complete (subject to surviving obligations) when it is ready for final payment as 
established by the RPR’s written recommendation of final payment. 
14.09 Waiver of Claims 
A. 
The making of final payment will not constitute a waiver by Owner of claims or rights against 
Contractor. 
B. 
The acceptance of final payment by Contractor will constitute a waiver by Contractor of all 
claims and rights against Owner other than those pending matters that have been duly 
submitted. 
158 of 250

--- page 159 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 18 of 27 
ARTICLE 15 - SUSPENSION OF WORK AND TERMINATION 
15.01 Owner May Suspend Work 
A. 
At any time and without cause, Owner may suspend the Work or any portion thereof for a 
period of not more than 60 consecutive days by written notice to Contractor and RPR. Such 
notice will fix the date on which Work will be resumed. Contractor shall resume the Work on 
the date so fixed. Contractor shall be entitled to an adjustment in the Contract Price or an 
extension of the Contract Times, or both, directly attributable to any such suspension. 
15.02 Owner May Terminate for Cause 
A. 
Contractor’s failure to perform the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents or 
other failure to comply with a material term of the Contract Documents will constitute a 
default by Contractor and justify termination for cause. 
B. 
If Contractor defaults in its obligations, then after giving Contractor and any surety ten days 
written notice that Owner is considering a declaration that Contractor is in default and 
termination of the Contract, Owner may proceed to: 
1. 
Declare Contractor to be in default, and give Contractor and any surety notice that the 
Contract is terminated; and 
2. 
Enforce the rights available to Owner under any applicable performance bond. 
C. 
Owner may not proceed with termination of the Contract under Paragraph 15.02.B if 
Contractor within seven days of receipt of notice of intent to terminate begins to correct its 
failure to perform and proceeds diligently to cure such failure. 
D. 
Subject to the terms and operation of any applicable performance bond, if Owner has 
terminated the Contract for cause, Owner may exclude Contractor from the Site, take 
possession of the Work, incorporate in the Work all materials and equipment stored at the 
Site or for which Owner has paid Contractor but which are stored elsewhere, and complete 
the Work as Owner may deem expedient. 
E. 
In the case of a termination for cause, if the cost to complete the Work, including related 
claims, costs, losses, and damages, exceeds the unpaid contract balance, Contractor shall pay 
the difference to Owner. 
15.03 Owner May Terminate for Convenience 
A. 
Upon seven days written notice to Contractor, Owner may, without cause and without 
prejudice to any other right or remedy of Owner, terminate the Contract. In such case, 
Contractor shall be paid for, without duplication of any items: 
1. 
Completed and acceptable Work executed in accordance with the Contract Documents 
prior to the effective date of termination, including fair and reasonable sums for 
overhead and profit on such Work; 
2. 
Expenses sustained prior to the effective date of termination in performing services and 
furnishing labor, materials, or equipment as required by the Contract Documents in 
connection with uncompleted Work, plus fair and reasonable sums for overhead and 
profit on such expenses; and 
3. 
Other reasonable expenses directly attributable to termination, including costs incurred 
to prepare a termination for convenience cost proposal. 
159 of 250

--- page 160 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 19 of 27 
B. 
Contractor shall not be paid on account of loss of anticipated overhead, profits, or revenue, 
or other economic loss arising out of or resulting from such termination. 
ARTICLE 16 - CONTRACTOR’S REPRESENTATIONS 
16.01 Contractor Representations 
A. 
Contractor makes the following representations when entering into this Contract: 
1. 
Contractor has examined and carefully studied the Contract Documents, and any data 
and reference items identified in the Contract Documents. 
2. 
Contractor has visited the Site, conducted a thorough visual examination of the Site and 
adjacent areas, and become familiar with and is satisfied as to the general, local, and 
Site conditions that may affect cost, progress, and performance of the Work. 
3. 
Contractor is familiar with and is satisfied as to all Laws and Regulations that may affect 
cost, progress, and performance of the Work. 
4. 
Contractor has considered the information known to Contractor itself; information 
commonly known to contractors doing business in the locality of the Site; information 
and observations obtained from visits to the Site; the Contract Documents; and the Site-
related reports and drawings identified in the Contract Documents, with respect to the 
effect of such information, observations, and documents on: 
a. 
The cost, progress, and performance of the Work; 
b. 
The means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures of construction to be 
employed by Contractor; and 
c. 
Contractor’s safety precautions and programs. 
5. 
Based on the information and observations referred to in the preceding paragraph, 
Contractor agrees that no further examinations, investigations, explorations, tests, 
studies, or data are necessary for the performance of the Work at the Contract Price, 
within the Contract Times, and in accordance with the other terms and conditions of 
the Contract. 
6. 
Contractor is aware of the general nature of work to be performed by Owner and others 
at the Site that relates to the Work as indicated in the Contract Documents. 
7. 
Contractor has given RPR written notice of all conflicts, errors, ambiguities, or 
discrepancies that Contractor has discovered in the Contract Documents, and the 
written resolution thereof by RPR is acceptable to Contractor. 
8. 
The Contract Documents are generally sufficient to indicate and convey understanding 
of all terms and conditions for performance and furnishing of the Work. 
9. 
Contractor’s entry into this Contract constitutes an incontrovertible representation by 
Contractor that, without exception, all prices in the Contract are premised upon 
performing and furnishing the Work required by the Contract Documents. 
160 of 250

--- page 161 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 20 of 27 
ARTICLE 17 - MISCELLANEOUS 
17.01 Cumulative Remedies 
A. 
The duties and obligations imposed by this Contract and the rights and remedies available 
hereunder to the parties hereto are in addition to, and are not to be construed in any way as 
a limitation of, any rights and remedies available to any or all of them which are otherwise 
imposed or available by Laws or Regulations, by special warranty or guarantee, or by other 
provisions of the Contract. The provisions of this paragraph will be as effective as if repeated 
specifically in the Contract Documents in connection with each particular duty, obligation, 
right, and remedy to which they apply. 
17.02 Limitation of Damages 
A. 
Neither Owner, RPR, nor any of their officers, directors, members, partners, employees, 
agents, consultants, or subcontractors, shall be liable to Contractor for any claims, costs, 
losses, or damages sustained by Contractor on or in connection with any other project or 
anticipated project. 
17.03 No Waiver 
A. 
A party’s non-enforcement of any provision shall not constitute a waiver of that provision, 
nor shall it affect the enforceability of that provision or of the remainder of this Contract. 
17.04 Survival of Obligations 
A. 
All representations, indemnifications, warranties, and guarantees made in, required by, or 
given in accordance with the Contract, as well as all continuing obligations indicated in the 
Contract, will survive final payment, completion, and acceptance of the Work or termination 
or completion of the Contract or termination of the services of Contractor. 
17.05 Contractor’s Certifications 
A. 
Contractor certifies that it has not engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive 
practices in competing for or in executing the Contract. 
17.06 Controlling Law and Venue 
A. 
This Contract is to be governed by the law of the state of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.   
17.07 Notices 
A. 
All notices shall be in writing, and delivered in person, or transmitted by certified mail, 
postage prepaid.  Notices required to be given to Owner or Contractor shall be addressed as 
appears in the signature block at the end of this Contract. 
17.08 No Partnership or Agency 
A. 
Nothing in this Contract nor in the contract documents shall be deemed to constitute a 
partnership in law between Owner and Contractor, or any subcontractor, to constitute either 
party as an agent of the other for any purpose; or to entitle either party to commit or bind 
the other in any manner unless expressly agreed upon in the contract documents.  
161 of 250

--- page 162 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 21 of 27 
17.09 Severability 
A. 
If any part or provision of the contract documents is determined by any court to be illegal, 
invalid, or unenforceable, in whole or in part, the contract documents shall continue to be 
valid as to its other provisions and the remainder of the affected provision, unless it can be 
concluded from the circumstances that, in the absence of the provisions found to be null and 
void, the parties would not have entered into the contract documents.  The parties shall use 
all reasonable efforts to replace any and all provisions or parts found to be null and void with 
provisions that are valid under the applicable law and come closest to their original intention.  
17.10 Waiver 
A. 
None of the following shall operate as a waiver of any provision of the contract documents, 
or of any power herein reserved by the Owner, or any right to damages herein provided:  1) 
inspection by the Owner or its authorized agents or representatives; 2) any order or 
certificate for payment, or any payment for, or acceptance of the whole or any party of the 
work by the Owner; 3) an extension of time; or 4) any position taken by the Owner or its 
authorized agents or representatives.  
17.11 Warranty 
A. 
Contractor warrants and guarantees that the materials and equipment provided shall be at 
least of the quality specified and new unless otherwise required or permitted by the contract 
documents and, if no quality is specified, then the materials and equipment shall be of 
commercial grade, suitable for heavy public use in facilities of similar size and complexity,, 
that the work performed hereunder will be free from defects, and that the work will conform 
to the requirements of the contract documents.  
162 of 250

--- page 163 ---
This document is a MODIFIED version of EJCDC® C-522, Copyright © 2016 by the National Society of Professional Engineers, American Council of 
Engineering Companies, and American Society of Civil Engineers, or is based in part on excerpts from copyrighted EJCDC documents. Those 
portions of the text that originated in copyrighted EJCDC documents remain subject to the copyright. 
Page 22 of 27 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Owner and Contractor have signed this Contract. 
This Contract will be effective on __________________ (which is the Effective Date of the Contract). 
OWNER: 
 CONTRACTOR: 
 
 
 
By: 
Azalea Mitch 
 By: 
Young Kang 
Title: 
Director of Public Works 
 Title: 
President 
 
 
Address for giving notices: 
 Address for giving notices: 
330 West 20th Avenue 
 
783 Phillips Drive 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
City of Industry, CA 91748 
 
 
 
 
 License No.: 
CA License # 858483 
 
 
 
(where applicable) 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
163 of 250

--- page 164 ---
EXHIBIT A 
CONTRACTOR’S PROPOSAL 
 
 
 
164 of 250

--- page 165 ---
Work Order Signature Document
EZIQC Contract No.:  CA08-SCI-GB05-080719-ACI
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
New Work Order
094887.00
Modify an Existing Work Order
Work Order Title: 
Work Order Number.:
Work Order Date:
X
01/31/2022
Contractor Name:
Contact:
Phone:
Contact:
Phone:
Alex Cho
(714) 443-3655
Owner Name:
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
Steve Wu
(650)8238331
Angeles Contractor Inc.
Work to be Performed
Work to be performed as per the Final Detailed Scope of Work Attached and as per the terms and conditions of 
Sourcewell EZIQC Contract No CA08-SCI-GB05-080719-ACI. 
Brief Work Order Description:
San Mateo Staff Restrooms - City Hall Renovation
Will not apply:
Liquidated Damages
Will apply:
Estimated Completion Date:  
Estimated Start Date:  
Time of Performance
X
Work Order Firm Fixed Price: $492,932.79
Owner Purchase Order Number:  
Approvals
Date
Date
Contractor
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
 2.00
Page 1 of 1
1/31/2022
Work Order Signature Document
165 of 250

--- page 166 ---
3.00
Detailed Scope of Work
Steve Wu
Alex Cho
To:
From:
Angeles Contractor Inc.
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
783 Phillips Drive
330 W. 20th Avenue
City of Industry, CA 91748
San Mateo, CA 94403
(714) 443-3655
(650)8238331
Work Order Number:
January 31, 2022
Date Printed: 
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Work Order Title:
Brief Scope:
San Mateo Staff Restrooms - City Hall Renovation
Revised
Final
Preliminary
X
The following items detail the scope of work as discussed at the site. All requirements necessary to accomplish the items 
set forth below shall be considered part of this scope of work.
The following items detail the scope of work as discussed at the site. All requirements necessary to accomplish the things set forth 
below shall be considered part of this work scope.
Angeles contractor to furnish and Provide all materials, fixtures, equipment, and labor as necessary to complete work. Work to be 
performed during regular business hours 7 AM to 5 PM, Monday - Friday.
*1/21/2022: City of San Mateo bid allowance of $73,000 was added.
(Scope of Work)
·
Abatement per MSTS-574 (Limited Asbestos & Lead paint sampling report)
·
Remove (E) floor and wall tile, toilet partitions, fixtures, and accessories throughout. (E) floor drains and cleanouts to remain
·
Remove (E) light fixtures including all associated wiring and conduit back to source
·
Remove all existing abandoned equipment, ductwork, piping (including plumbing lines)
·
Remove (E) exhaust air outlets
·
Remove (E) lavatory sinks and associated faucets
·
Remove (E) urinals
·
Remove (E) water closet and associated flush valves
·
Remove (E) make-up air outlets and associated ductwork
·
Remove all (E) acoustical tile ceilings, light fixtures, and ceiling-mounted devices
·
Remove (E) door, door frame, hardware, and section of existing wall
·
Remove (E) janitor’s room door, frame, and hardware and salvage for relocation
·
Demolish furred wall and replace with new furred wall per construction plan
·
(E) electrical outlet to remain
·
(E) hose bib to remain. Relocate if needed
·
(E) FD to remain, evaluate trap primer connection, if required provide (N) ½” TPW connection from (N) TP-1
·
Provide all wall access panels serving trap primer, water hammer arrestor, domestic water valves, etc.
·
(E) Janitor’s sink to remain
·
Provide (N) coat hook
·
Provide (N) grab bars
·
Provide (N) recessed automatic hand dryer
Page 1 of 2
1/31/2022
Scope of Work
166 of 250

--- page 167 ---
Detailed Scope of Work Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
·
Provide (N) mirrors
·
Provide (N) floor anchored overhead braced toilet partition
·
Provide (N) lavatory sinks and associated faucets
·
Install (E) toilet seat cover dispenser
·
Provide (N) soap dispenser
·
Provide (N) toilet paper dispenser/shelf
·
Provide (N) paper towel dispenser/trash
·
Provide (N) sanitary products receptacle
·
Provide (N) rubber base (TBD)
·
Provide (N) interior paint
·
Provide touch up paint and base in corridor due to demolition/construction
·
Provide (N) Gyp. Board
·
Provide (N) floor and wall tile, accent wall tile 
·
Provide (N) section metal framing wall
·
Provide (N) door, frame, and wall-mounted restroom signage
·
Provide (N) ceiling grid at seismic strut with seismic bracing and acoustical tile ceilings
·
Provide a salvaged pocket door or provide (N) one to match
·
Reduce the width of (E) furred wall. Replace with new furred wall, V.I.F depth to match furring in Men’s room
·
Enlarge (E) door opening to fit (N) 3’-0” wide door
·
Provide all fire life safety and sprinkler systems 
·
Provide (N) LED light fixtures with dimming controls as specified 
·
Provide (N) emergency fixture with 90 minutes emergency battery pack
·
Provide (N) wall dimmers, wall switches, and ceiling occupancy sensors
·
Connect to (E) receptacle circuit serving restroom. Mounted under the sink to support soap dispenser
·
Provide stand-alone combo dimmer/OS station
·
Provide dedicated 120V circuit from the electrical room panel
·
Reconfigure and re-balance the HVAC system to accommodate the new layout
·
Provide backing for wall-mounted devices
·
Decontamination Station
Subject to the terms and conditions of JOC Contract CA08-SCI-GB05-080719-ACI.
Contractor
Date
Date
CALIFORNIA - City of San Mateo
Page 2 of 2
1/31/2022
Scope of Work
167 of 250

--- page 168 ---
4.00
Contractor's Price Proposal - Summary
Owner PO #:
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
094887.00
CA08-SCI-GB05-080719-ACI
IQC Master Contract #:
Work Order #:
Title:
Re:
January 31, 2022
Date:
Proposal Value:
Contractor: 
Angeles Contractor Inc.
$492,932.79
$107,243.97
Section - 01
$31,167.52
Section - 02
$1,377.94
Section - 03
$2,732.56
Section - 05
$722.84
Section - 06
$1,016.88
Section - 07
$17,444.65
Section - 08
$85,064.20
Section - 09
$38,038.40
Section - 10
$13,910.55
Section - 13
$18,339.42
Section - 21
$86,845.76
Section - 22
$41,998.45
Section - 23
$21,754.84
Section - 26
$8,516.69
Section - 27
$15,947.62
Section - 28
$810.50
Section - 31
Proposal Total
Thisl total represents the correct total for the proposal.  Any discrepancy between line totals, 
sub-totals and the proposal total is due to rounding.
$492,932.79
The Percentage of NPP on this Proposal:
%
Page 1 of 1
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Summary
168 of 250

--- page 169 ---
5.00
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
094887.00
CA08-SCI-GB05-080719-ACI
IQC Master Contract #:
Work Order #:
Owner PO #:
Title:
Re:
January 31, 2022
Date:
Proposal Value:
Contractor: 
Angeles Contractor Inc.
$492,932.79
(Excludes)
Equip.
Material
Labor
Line Total
Description
UOM
Mod.
Item
Sect.
Section - 01
01  22   16   00 0002
Reimbursable FeesReimbursable Fees will be paid to the contractor for eligible 
costs.  Insert the appropriate quantity to adjust the base cost to the actual 
Reimbursable Fee. If there are multiple Reimbursable Fees, list each one 
separately and add a comment in the "note" block to identify the Reimbursable 
Fee (e.g. sidewalk closure, road cut, various permits, extended warranty, 
expedited shipping costs, etc.). A copy of each receipt shall be submitted 
with the Price Proposal.
1
$73,000.00
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 73,000.00
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.00
 1.0000
 73,000.00
City of San Mateo (Bid Allowance)
1. Abatement 2. Unforeseen behind wall & Ceiling 3. Concrete Slab grade 4. Deferred Submittal (Shop 
drawing 5.MISC. fire wall, material container, sound proofing, roof works, temp. site protection
01  22   16   00 0002
Reimbursable FeesReimbursable Fees will be paid to the contractor for eligible 
costs.  Insert the appropriate quantity to adjust the base cost to the actual 
Reimbursable Fee. If there are multiple Reimbursable Fees, list each one 
separately and add a comment in the "note" block to identify the Reimbursable 
Fee (e.g. sidewalk closure, road cut, various permits, extended warranty, 
expedited shipping costs, etc.). A copy of each receipt shall be submitted 
with the Price Proposal.
2
$10,611.07
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 10,611.07
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.00
 1.1000
 9,646.43
$482,321.72 x 2% bond fee = $9,646.43
01  22   20   00 0027
PlumberFor tasks not included in the Construction Task Catalog® and as 
directed by owner only.
3
$4,277.00
HR
Installation
=
x
x
 4,277.00
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 91.86
 1.1640
 40.00
plumbing hours used for points of connection to existing pipes
01  22   20   00 0027
0001
For Foreman, Add
4
$213.71
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 213.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.59
 1.1640
 40.00
01  22   20   00 0070
Flagperson For Traffic Control
5
$3,468.72
HR
Installation
=
x
x
 3,468.72
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 74.50
 1.1640
 40.00
closest line item for fire watch during alarm and sprinkler work
01  56   16   00 0066
1/2" BC Plywood Wall Sheathing On Both Sides, Temporary Wood Stud Wall, 
16" On Center
6
$3,295.08
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 3,295.08
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 7.07
 1.1640
 400.40
Temporary wall per deconstruction station in hallway
01  56   16   00 0076
Temporary Metal Door And FramePainted with panic hardware, lockset, 
threshold and smoke seals. Remove after use.
7
$1,054.72
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,054.72
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 453.06
 1.1640
 2.00
temporary door for deconstruction station [this is the only temp door line item in the ctc]
Page 1 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
169 of 250

--- page 170 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 01
01  66   19   00 0047
Transfer Delivered Materials Distances Greater Than 125', Per CY Of Material 
Per 125'
8
$2,383.29
CY
Installation
=
x
x
 2,383.29
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 5.85
 1.1640
 350.00
transfer of delivered materials from laydown area to the construction site inside the building
01  66   19   00 0073
Transfer Demolition Debris Distances Greater Than 125', Per CY Of Material 
Per 125'
9
$2,383.29
CY
Installation
=
x
x
 2,383.29
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 5.85
 1.1640
 350.00
transfer of demolished materials from construction site inside the building to the trash bun or laydown area
01  71   36   00 0004
>1 To 4 Hours On Site, Electromagnetic (SIR/GPR) Survey, Earth, Concrete, 
Masonry Or Asphalt
10
$2,174.61
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,174.61
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 934.11
 1.1640
 2.00
standard safety protocol before concrete cutting and trenching
01  71   36   00 0007
Standard Report For Electromagnetic (SIR/GPR) Survey, Earth, Concrete, 
Masonry Or AsphaltIncludes a detailed description of the scope of work , 
inspection methods, and equipment used. Also includes visuals such as site 
locations, images of data, and site photos.
11
$483.25
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 483.25
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 207.58
 1.1640
 2.00
report to be provided from GPR technician  prior to concrete cutting, trenching and to be art of building 
records
01  74   19   00 0016
40 CY Dumpster (5 Ton) "Construction Debris"Includes delivery of dumpster, 
rental cost, pick-up cost, hauling, and disposal fee. Non-hazardous material.
12
$2,339.54
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,339.54
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 669.97
 1.1640
 3.00
dumpsters for demolished debris from construction / walls, ceilings, tile, backer  boards, plumbing fixtures
01  74   19   00 0017
10 CY Low-Boy Dumpster "Concrete Or Asphalt Only"Includes delivery of 
dumpster, rental cost, pick-up cost, hauling, and disposal fee. Concrete or 
asphalt only.
13
$1,559.69
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,559.69
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 669.97
 1.1640
 2.00
concrete low boy for demolished concrete need for points of connection for underground pipe
$107,243.97
Subtotal for Section - 01
Section - 02
02  41   13   13 0041
>3" To 6" By Hand, Break-up And Remove Concrete Paving
14
$857.98
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 857.98
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 5.67
 1.1640
 130.00
demolish concrete for underground pipe replacement and installation
02  41   19   13 0071
Saw Cut Minimum ChargeFor projects where the total saw cutting charge is 
less than the minimum charge, use this task exclusively. This task should not 
be used in conjunction with any other tasks in this section.
15
$2,757.25
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,757.25
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 789.59
 1.1640
 3.00
saw cut minimum charge for restroom slabs where underground pipe installation occurs
02  41   19   13 0280
1/2" Diameter Drilling In Concrete Per Inch Of Depth
16
$909.32
IN
Installation
=
x
x
 909.32
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.17
 1.1640
 360.00
used for concrete dowels 60 x 6" each
Page 2 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
170 of 250

--- page 171 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 02
02  41   19   13 0333
Core Drill Minimum ChargeFor projects where the total core drilling charge is 
less than the minimum charge, use task "Minimum Charge For Core Drilling" 
exclusively. Task "Minimum Charge For Core Drilling" should not be used in 
conjunction with any other tasks in this section. Does not apply to sections 
"Drilling In Concrete Per Inch Of Depth" or "Drilling In Brick Or Block Per Inch Of 
Depth".
17
$1,490.71
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,490.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 640.34
 1.1640
 2.00
core drill minimum charges thru walls for pipe penetrations
02  41   19   16 0011
Demolish Suspended Plastered Ceiling And Suspension System
18
$883.71
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 883.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.46
 1.1640
 520.00
demo existing ceiling backer board for new ceiling height
02  82   33   00 0064
Up To 50 SF, Single Layer Gypsum Wall Board, Asbestos Abatement And 
Disposal
19
$732.19
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 732.19
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 629.03
 1.1640
 1.00
demolish gyp walls in restroom per demolition notes and haz mat report in both restrooms'
02  82   33   00 0065
>50 To 500 SF, Single Layer Gypsum Wall Board, Asbestos Abatement And 
Disposal
20
$18,012.90
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 18,012.90
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 12.38
 1.1640
 1,250.00
demolish gyp walls in restroom per demolition notes and haz mat report in both restrooms'
02  84   16   00 0002
Removal Of TSCA-Exempt Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) And Non-PCB 
Ballast From A Demolished Fixture For Recycling
21
$65.84
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 65.84
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 7.07
 1.1640
 8.00
disposal / recycling of existing lighting ballasts
02  89   00   00 0009
6 Mil Plastic Sheeting, Applied To Floors, Hazmat Containment Construction
22
$447.91
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 447.91
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.37
 1.1640
 1,040.00
plastic sheeting for abatement protection during demolition of walls in both restrooms
02  89   00   00 0010
6 Mil Plastic Sheeting, Applied To Walls, Hazmat Containment Construction
23
$2,076.11
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 2,076.11
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.49
 1.1640
 3,640.00
plastic sheeting for abatement protection during demolition of walls in both restrooms
02  89   00   00 0011
6 Mil Plastic Sheeting, Applied To Ceilings, Hazmat Containment Construction
24
$798.97
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 798.97
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.66
 1.1640
 1,040.00
plastic sheeting for abatement protection during demolition of walls in both restrooms
02  89   00   00 0017
Portable Personnel Decontamination Wash Facility (5 Stage)Includes 
connection to negative air system.
25
$852.12
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 852.12
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 732.06
 1.1640
 1.00
personnel decon chamber for men's and women's restroom
02  89   00   00 0017
0045
For Dismantling And Relocation To A Different Area, Add
26
$517.61
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 517.61
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 444.68
 1.1640
 1.00
Page 3 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
171 of 250

--- page 172 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 02
02  89   00   00 0018
Portable Waste Decontamination UnitIncludes connection to negative air 
system.
27
$454.22
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 454.22
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 390.22
 1.1640
 1.00
waste decon chamber for men's and women's restroom
02  89   00   00 0018
0046
For Dismantling And Relocation To A Different Area, Add
28
$310.68
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 310.68
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 266.91
 1.1640
 1.00
$31,167.52
Subtotal for Section - 02
Section - 03
03  21   11   00 0242
1/2" Diameter x 24" Long, Deformed Straight Dowel
29
$175.30
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 175.30
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.51
 1.1640
 60.00
dowels for concrete repair work after underground piping work
03  30   53   00 0007
Hand Mix And Place ConcreteFor use where conventional equipment access 
is limited or when directed by the owner.
30
$1,202.64
CF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,202.64
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 29.52
 1.1640
 35.00
concrete repair work on slab after underground pluming pipe installation
$1,377.94
Subtotal for Section - 03
Section - 05
05  05   19   00 0185
1/2" Chemical Adhesive For Bolt, Dowel Or Threaded Rod
31
$1,065.76
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,065.76
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 15.26
 1.1640
 60.00
epoxy adhesive for dowels for concrete repair work after underground plumbing work
05  05   23   00 1341
1/2" Diameter, Hot Dipped Galvanized Steel, Low Carbon/Grade 2 Hex Nut
32
$56.90
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 56.90
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.94
 1.1640
 52.00
2 per each Unistrut channel for hanging ducts and pipes, conduits etc.
05  05   23   00 1423
1/2" Inside Diameter, Hot Dipped Galvanized Steel Flat Washer
33
$23.00
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 23.00
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.38
 1.1640
 52.00
2 per each Unistrut channel for hanging ducts and pipes, conduits etc.
05  05   23   00 1490
1/2" Inside Diameter, Hot Dipped Galvanized Steel Lock Washer
34
$12.71
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 12.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.21
 1.1640
 52.00
2 per each Unistrut channel for hanging ducts and pipes, conduits etc.
05  42   13   00 0007
5-1/2" - 18 Gauge Steel Joists
35
$1,574.19
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,574.19
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 6.44
 1.1640
 210.00
door boxed jamb and header, backing for toilet accessories and plumbing wall mounted fixtures on sheet 
A-800 & A-900 details
$2,732.56
Subtotal for Section - 05
Section - 06
Page 4 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
172 of 250

--- page 173 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 06
06  11   16   00 0049
2" x 4" Wood Stud Framing, For Partition Walls
36
$722.84
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 0.00
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.36
 1.1640
 0.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 722.84
 0.69
 1.1640
 900.00
demolition of existing wood walls in men and women's restroom
$722.84
Subtotal for Section - 06
Section - 07
07  84   13   19 0002
1" Diameter Hole With 1/2" Pipe, Sealed With Intumescent Firestop Sealant
37
$623.17
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 623.17
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 17.27
 1.1640
 31.00
fire proof penetrations per details on A920
07  84   13   19 0004
1-1/2" Diameter Hole With 3/4" Pipe, Sealed With Intumescent Firestop Sealant
38
$393.71
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 393.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 21.14
 1.1640
 16.00
fire proof penetrations per details on A920
$1,016.88
Subtotal for Section - 07
Section - 08
08  05   13   00 0032
Factory Prepare Wood Door (Rated Or Non Rated) For Mortise Lockset 
Hardware
39
$299.01
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 299.01
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 64.22
 1.1640
 4.00
prep new doors for new hardware set
08  12   13   13 0041
3' x 6'-8" Through 7'-2" High, 5-3/4" Deep, 16 Gauge, Knock Down Hollow 
Metal Door Frame
40
$2,264.55
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,766.07
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 379.31
 1.1640
 4.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 498.48
 85.65
 1.1640
 5.00
demo existing door frames  and install new per new work floor plan
08  12   13   13 0041
0074
For Welded Frames, Add
41
$277.03
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 277.03
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 59.50
 1.1640
 4.00
08  12   13   13 0041
0075
For Galvanized Frames, Add
42
$116.21
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 116.21
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 24.96
 1.1640
 4.00
08  12   13   13 0041
0079
For 3/4 Hour Rating, Add
43
$252.17
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 252.17
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 54.16
 1.1640
 4.00
08  14   16   00 0519
3'-0" x 7' x 1-3/4" Thick, 5 Ply, Particleboard Core (PC), Maple Faced Wood 
Door
44
$2,272.91
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,973.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 423.93
 1.1640
 4.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 299.09
 51.39
 1.1640
 5.00
demo existing doors and install new per new work floor plan
08  14   16   00 0519
0134
For Structural Composite Lumber Core (SCLC), Add
45
$672.84
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 672.84
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 144.51
 1.1640
 4.00
Page 5 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
173 of 250

--- page 174 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 08
08  14   16   00 0519
0136
For Commercial Grade 45 Minute Particleboard Core (PC), Fire Rated Door, 
Add
46
$179.44
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 179.44
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 38.54
 1.1640
 4.00
08  14   73   00 0031
3'-0" x 6'-8" x 1-3/4" Thick, Hollow Core (HC), Birch Faced Wood Pocket Door
47
$988.91
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 941.56
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 808.90
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 47.35
 40.68
 1.1640
 1.00
pocket door per demo and new work floor plans
08  14   73   00 0031
0150
For Walnut, Add
48
$326.04
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 326.04
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 280.10
 1.1640
 1.00
08  14   73   00 0058
5-1/4" Birch Jamb Replacement For Pocket Doors
49
$123.19
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 123.19
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 105.83
 1.1640
 1.00
remove and replace door jamb for pocket door in women's restroom area per demo and new work floor 
plans
08  14   73   00 0058
0154
For Walnut, Add
50
$36.89
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 36.89
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 24.38
 1.1640
 1.30
08  14   73   00 0066
3'-0" x 7' Door Track And Hardware Replacement For Pocket Door
51
$364.68
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 364.68
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 313.30
 1.1640
 1.00
remove and replace door hardware for pocket door in women's restroom
08  31   13   00 0005
18" x 18" Fire Rated Stainless Steel Access Door With Cam Latch
52
$4,654.07
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,654.07
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 444.26
 1.1640
 9.00
access panels for water hammer and valves
08  71   11   00 0042
4-1/2" x 4-1/2", Standard Duty, Full Mortise, Ball Bearing, Wrought Steel Hinge
53
$1,008.93
PR
Installation
=
x
x
 866.39
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 93.04
 1.1640
 8.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 142.54
 9.42
 1.1640
 13.00
demolition of existing door hinges and installation of new to match existing per demo and new work floor 
plans
08  71   11   00 0042
0220
For Heavy Duty, Add
54
$61.65
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 61.65
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 6.62
 1.1640
 8.00
08  71   11   00 2270
Surface Mounted Heavy Duty Door Closer (LCN 4040XP/4041 Series)
55
$1,348.99
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,204.43
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 344.91
 1.1640
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 144.57
 24.84
 1.1640
 5.00
door closers for new doors and demolition of existing
08  71   11   00 2289
Bath/Bedroom Privacy F02/F19 Mortise LocksetLocked with thumb knob 
inside.
56
$2,197.14
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,072.54
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 593.51
 1.1640
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 124.61
 21.41
 1.1640
 5.00
bathroom locksets for men's and women's restrooms
$17,444.65
Subtotal for Section - 08
Page 6 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
174 of 250

--- page 175 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 09
09  05   61   13 0004
>500 To 1,000 SF, Water Vapor Emission Control System (Koester VAP 
1-2002)Clear
57
$10,123.31
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 10,123.31
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 6.69
 1.1640
 1,300.00
moisture barrier for floor and wall tile in both men and women's restrooms
09  22   13   23 0003
25 Gauge, 16" On Center, Installed On Walls, Single-Leg Resilient Channel, 
RC1 Furring Channel
58
$629.49
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 437.31
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.89
 1.1640
 130.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 192.18
 1.27
 1.1640
 130.00
furred wall in women's restroom per demolition and new work floor plans
09  22   13   23 0003
0417
For 20 Gauge, Add
59
$93.82
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 93.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.62
 1.1640
 130.00
09  22   16   13 0016
4" Width, 16" On Center, 18 Gauge, Non Load Bearing, Non Structural Metal 
Stud Framing With Tracks And Runners
60
$1,093.29
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,093.29
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.25
 1.1640
 289.00
demo and installation of walls in men's and women's restrooms per demo and new work floor plans
09  22   16   13 0016
0011
For >100 To 300, Add
61
$164.83
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 164.83
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.49
 1.1640
 289.00
09  28   13   00 0004
5/8" Cementitious Backer Units For Installation On Floors
62
$5,508.54
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 4,752.26
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.65
 1.1640
 878.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 756.27
 0.74
 1.1640
 878.00
backer boards for new wall tile in men's and women's restrooms
09  28   13   00 0004
0063
For Installation On Wall, Add
63
$613.20
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 613.20
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.60
 1.1640
 878.00
09  29   10   00 0025
5/8" Moisture Resistant Gypsum Board
64
$1,626.57
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,626.57
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.70
 1.1640
 822.00
new gyp board installation for new walls in men's and women's restrooms per new work plan and interior 
elevations
09  29   10   00 0049
Up To 10' High, Walls, Tape, Spackle And Finish Gypsum Board
65
$526.24
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 526.24
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.55
 1.1640
 822.00
new gyp finishing prior to paint
09  29   10   00 0055
Up To 10' High, Vertical Corners, Tape, Spackle And Finish Gypsum Board
66
$241.61
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 241.61
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.11
 1.1640
 187.00
prep and finish vertical corners of new gyp
09  29   10   00 0058
Up To 10' High, Horizontal Corners, Tape, Spackle And Finish Gypsum Board
67
$136.64
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 136.64
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.29
 1.1640
 91.00
prep and finish new gyp board at horizontal corners in both men's and women's restrooms
Page 7 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
175 of 250

--- page 176 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 09
09  30   13   00 0002
2" x 2" x 1/4" Thick, Unpolished Ceramic Floor TileTiles mounted from back, 
side or front in 12" x 12", 12" x 24", 12" x 48", or similar sized sheets.
68
$1,261.03
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 0.00
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 10.53
 1.1640
 0.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 1,261.03
 2.22
 1.1640
 488.00
demolish existing floor tile in men and women's restrooms
09  30   13   00 0004
8" x 8" And Larger Unmounted Floor TileIncludes glazed porcelain, unglazed 
porcelain and glazed ceramic tiles.
69
$6,691.42
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 6,691.42
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 11.78
 1.1640
 488.00
install floor tile in men and women's restrooms
09  30   13   00 0004
0068
For Epoxy Grout, Add
70
$715.72
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 715.72
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.26
 1.1640
 488.00
09  30   13   00 0004
0069
For Heavy Duty Floors With A PEI 5 Rating, Add
71
$568.03
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 568.03
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.00
 1.1640
 488.00
09  30   13   00 0007
Less than 8" x 8" Mounted Wall TileIncludes glazed porcelain, unglazed 
porcelain and glazed ceramic tiles. Tiles mounted from back, side or front in 
12" x 12", 12" x 24", or similar sized sheets.
72
$2,749.16
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 0.00
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 11.61
 1.1640
 0.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 2,749.16
 2.69
 1.1640
 878.00
demolish existing wall tile in men and women's restrooms
09  30   13   00 0008
8" x 8" And Larger Unmounted Wall TileIncludes glazed porcelain, unglazed 
porcelain and glazed ceramic tiles.
73
$13,316.56
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 13,316.56
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 13.03
 1.1640
 878.00
install new wall tile in men's and women's restrooms
09  30   13   00 0008
0073
For Epoxy Grout, Add
74
$1,139.27
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 1,139.27
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.45
 1.1640
 675.00
09  35   13   00 0002
Thin Set - Epoxy MortarImpact and chemical resistant.
75
$8,579.84
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 7,038.65
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.43
 1.1640
 1,365.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 1,541.19
 0.97
 1.1640
 1,365.00
thin set for wall and floor tile in men and women's restrooms
09  39   00   00 0035
3/8" Height, Aluminum Transition Trim For Tile (Schluter® RENO-U)
76
$1,400.62
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,400.62
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.56
 1.1640
 338.00
finish trim for tiles on verticals and where it meets gyp
09  39   00   00 0036
1/2" Height, Aluminum Transition Trim For Tile (Schluter® RENO-U)
77
$59.50
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 59.50
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.26
 1.1640
 12.00
tile transition for floor tile at door ways
09  51   13   00 0012
2' x 4' x 5/8" Mineral Fiber Acoustical Ceiling Panel (Armstrong VL Perforated)
78
$2,453.71
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 2,453.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.96
 1.1640
 425.00
new ceiling tile in both men and women's restrooms
Page 8 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
176 of 250

--- page 177 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 09
09  51   13   00 0012
0094
For >200 To 500, Add
79
$148.41
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 148.41
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.30
 1.1640
 425.00
09  51   13   00 0012
0098
For Individual Room Quantities <495, AddFor use with projects >500 SF
80
$341.34
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 341.34
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.69
 1.1640
 425.00
09  51   23   00 0002
12" x 12" x 1/2" Tongue And Groove Mineral Fiber Acoustical Ceiling Tile
81
$469.97
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 0.00
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.92
 1.1640
 0.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 469.97
 0.95
 1.1640
 425.00
demo existing ceiling tile in both men's and women's restrooms
09  53   23   00 0005
2' x 4' Grid, 15/16" T Bar Ceiling Suspension System
82
$905.30
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 905.30
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.83
 1.1640
 425.00
new ceiling grid in both men's and women's restrooms
09  53   23   00 0005
0113
For Fastening To Concrete, Add
83
$499.65
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 499.65
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.01
 1.1640
 425.00
09  53   23   00 0005
0119
For Individual Room Quantities <495, AddFor use with projects >500 SF
84
$103.89
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 103.89
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.21
 1.1640
 425.00
09  53   23   00 0005
0121
For Compression Posts, Telescopic, With Splay Wires, Attached To Structure, 
Add
85
$19,827.58
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 19,827.58
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 40.08
 1.1640
 425.00
09  53   23   00 0005
0124
For >200 To 500, Add
86
$74.21
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 74.21
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.15
 1.1640
 425.00
09  65   13   13 0008
6" High, 1/8" Thick, Type TP Thermoplastic Rubber Wall Base, All Colors
87
$199.27
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 199.27
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.23
 1.1640
 53.00
rubber base in mother's room
09  65   13   13 0008
0442
For >20 To 40, Add
88
$40.72
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 40.72
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.66
 1.1640
 53.00
09  91   23   00 0062
Paint Interior Plaster/Drywall Walls, 1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work
89
$447.60
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 447.60
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.51
 1.1640
 754.00
paint new and existing gyp board with primer
09  91   23   00 0064
Paint Interior Plaster/Drywall Walls, 2 Coats Paint, Brush/Roller Work
90
$903.99
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 903.99
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.03
 1.1640
 754.00
paint new and existing gyp board with 2 coats
09  91   23   00 0239
Paint Interior Wood Door Frame And Trim, 1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work
91
$17.18
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 17.18
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.82
 1.1640
 18.00
primer pocket door frame
Page 9 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
177 of 250

--- page 178 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 09
09  91   23   00 0241
Paint Interior Wood Door Frame And Trim, 2 Coats Paint, Brush/Roller Work
92
$37.71
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 37.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.80
 1.1640
 18.00
2 coats paint pocket door frame
09  91   23   00 0242
Paint Interior Metal Door Frame And Trim, 1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work
93
$50.58
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 50.58
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.79
 1.1640
 55.00
primer 3 door frames
09  91   23   00 0244
Paint Interior Metal Door Frame And Trim, 2 Coats Paint, Brush/Roller Work
94
$112.04
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 112.04
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.75
 1.1640
 55.00
2 coats paint 3 door frames
09  91   23   00 0262
Paint Interior Wood Door, Both Faces, 1 Coat Primer, Brush/Roller Work
95
$363.23
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 363.23
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 62.41
 1.1640
 5.00
primer 3 reg doors and 1 pocket door
09  91   23   00 0264
Paint Interior Wood Door, Both Faces, 2 Coats Paint, Brush/Roller Work
96
$645.73
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 645.73
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 110.95
 1.1640
 5.00
2 coats paint  3 reg doors and 1 pocket door
09  91   43   00 0054
"Spot" Paint Surfaces, Per Coat
97
$183.40
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 183.40
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.01
 1.1640
 156.00
spot paint walls where deconstruction area meets existing walls as a repair item post dismantling
$85,064.20
Subtotal for Section - 09
Section - 10
10  14   23   11 0007
>100 To 250 SI, Adhesive Backed Vinyl, Surface Mount, Indoor/Outdoor Sign
98
$263.24
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 208.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 35.88
 1.1640
 5.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 54.42
 9.35
 1.1640
 5.00
interior restroom signage for both men's and women's restrooms
10  21   13   19 0146
36" x 60", Floor And Ceiling Anchored, Solid Phenolic, One Compartment 
Corner Unit, Complete Toilet Partition
99
$8,247.64
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 6,951.50
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,493.02
 1.1640
 4.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 1,296.14
 139.19
 1.1640
 8.00
demo existing partitions and install per new floor layout
10  21   13   19 0146
0178
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Hinges And Brackets, Add
100
$623.70
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 623.70
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 137.39
 1.1640
 3.90
10  21   13   19 0146
0183
For NFPA Class A, Add
101
$1,221.11
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 1,221.11
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 268.99
 1.1640
 3.90
10  21   13   19 0147
60" x 60", Floor And Ceiling Anchored, Solid Phenolic, One Compartment 
Corner Unit, Complete ADA Compliant Toilet Partition
102
$8,354.26
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 8,354.26
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,794.30
 1.1640
 4.00
install 2 new ada stalls per new layout
Page 10 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
178 of 250

--- page 179 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 10
10  21   13   19 0147
0178
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Hinges And Brackets, Add
103
$415.80
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 415.80
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 137.39
 1.1640
 2.60
10  21   13   19 0147
0183
For NFPA Class A, Add
104
$997.26
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 997.26
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 329.52
 1.1640
 2.60
10  21   13   19 0172
24" x 58" x 3/4", Solid Phenolic, Toilet Partition Door
105
$1,622.24
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,622.24
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 348.42
 1.1640
 4.00
doors for reg stalls
10  21   13   19 0172
0179
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Hinge, Add
106
$278.10
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 278.10
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 61.26
 1.1640
 3.90
10  21   13   19 0172
0183
For NFPA Class A, Add
107
$307.29
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 307.29
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 67.69
 1.1640
 3.90
10  21   13   19 0176
36" x 58" x 3/4", Solid Phenolic, ADA Compliant Toilet Partition Door
108
$1,596.86
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,596.86
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 457.29
 1.1640
 3.00
doors for ada stalls
10  21   13   19 0176
0179
For Heavy Gauge Full-Height SS Hinge, Add
109
$185.40
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 185.40
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 61.26
 1.1640
 2.60
10  21   13   19 0176
0183
For NFPA Class A, Add
110
$271.95
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 271.95
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 89.86
 1.1640
 2.60
10  28   13   13 0048
Two Jumbo Roll, Surface Mounted, Stainless Steel Toilet Tissue Dispenser 
(Bobrick B-2892)
111
$1,741.32
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,561.97
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 191.70
 1.1640
 7.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 179.35
 19.26
 1.1640
 8.00
toilet tissue dispensers per floor plans
10  28   13   13 0074
Surface Mounted, Stainless Steel Sanitary Seat-Cover Dispenser (Bobrick 
Contura B-4221)
112
$1,102.44
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 923.09
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 113.29
 1.1640
 7.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 179.35
 19.26
 1.1640
 8.00
seat cover disp. per floor plans
10  28   13   13 0114
12 Gallon, Semi-Recessed Mounted, Stainless Steel Combination Folded Paper 
Towel Dispenser/ Waste Receptacle (Bobrick Classic B-3909)
113
$2,640.48
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,490.98
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 713.34
 1.1640
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 149.49
 42.81
 1.1640
 3.00
combo waste and towel disp per floor plans
10  28   13   13 0126
Partition Mounted, Stainless Steel Sanitary Napkin Disposal (Bobrick Contura 
B-4354)
114
$1,423.43
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,423.43
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 305.72
 1.1640
 4.00
sanitary napkin disposal per floor plans
Page 11 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
179 of 250

--- page 180 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 10
10  28   13   13 0144
36" Length, 1-1/2" Diameter, Stainless Steel Grab Bar (Bobrick B-6806x36)
115
$381.19
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 381.19
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 81.87
 1.1640
 4.00
grab bars in ada stalls
10  28   13   13 0145
42" Length, 1-1/2" Diameter, Stainless Steel Grab Bar (Bobrick B-6806x42)
116
$291.93
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 291.93
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 83.60
 1.1640
 3.00
grab bars in ada stalls
10  28   13   13 0221
Recessed Mounted, Automatic Sensor, Stainless Steel Cover Hand/Hair Dryer 
(World Dryer DXRA)
117
$4,961.61
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,961.61
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,420.85
 1.1640
 3.00
1 hand dryer in each restroom per floor plans
10  28   13   13 0283
Double Stainless Steel Robe Hook (Bobrick B-672 or B-6727)
118
$338.31
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 338.30
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 41.52
 1.1640
 7.00
robe hooks per new floor plans in men's and women's restroom
10  28   13   13 0329
48" x 36", Surface Mounted, Stainless Steel Channel Frame Glass Mirror 
(Bobrick B-165 4836)
119
$368.59
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 293.86
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 252.46
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 74.73
 21.40
 1.1640
 3.00
mirror in mens room above sink
10  28   13   13 0330
60" x 36", Surface Mounted, Stainless Steel Channel Frame Glass Mirror 
(Gamco C-60x36)
120
$404.25
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 329.52
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 283.09
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 74.73
 21.40
 1.1640
 3.00
mirror in women's room above sink
$38,038.40
Subtotal for Section - 10
Section - 13
13  48   63   00 0015
4-Bolt Deck Anchor Connection For Seismic BraceIncludes drilling into 
concrete, bolts, anchor plate, seismic bracket attached with bolt, nut and 
washer.
121
$7,122.94
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 7,122.94
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 117.68
 1.1640
 52.00
anchors for bracing at ducts, conduits, pipes, lights
13  48   63   00 0016
2 Cable Seismic Brace With Center Threaded Rod StiffenerIncludes seismic 
bracket, bolts, and cable for attachment to ceiling anchor. Excludes deck 
anchors.
122
$6,787.61
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 6,787.61
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 112.14
 1.1640
 52.00
 for bracing at ducts, conduits, pipes, lights
$13,910.55
Subtotal for Section - 13
Section - 21
Page 12 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
180 of 250

--- page 181 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 21
21  01   10   91 0004
Bleed Existing Lines Of Water
123
$696.07
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 696.07
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.46
 1.1640
 1,300.00
bleed existing sprinkler pipes 
[subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
21  01   10   91 0005
Refill Existing Lines With Water
124
$847.39
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 847.39
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.56
 1.1640
 1,300.00
refill new sprinkler pipes 
[subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
21  01   30   91 0010
Hydrostatic Testing, All Sizes, All AgentsSee CSI section 23 05 93 00-0046 for 
testing existing piping systems.
125
$109.68
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 109.68
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 36.24
 1.1640
 2.60
testing of sprinkler pipes 
[subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
21  05   23   00 0017
2" Butterfly Valve, Grooved, Wafer Type, With Standard Trim (Nibco 
WD-3510)
126
$1,747.63
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,676.74
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 288.10
 1.1640
 5.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 70.89
 12.18
 1.1640
 5.00
valves for new sprinkler pipes 
[subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
21  05   23   00 0031
2" Swing Check Valve, Bronze, Threaded, 150 LB (Nibco T-433-Y)
127
$1,592.03
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,494.02
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 427.84
 1.1640
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 98.01
 16.84
 1.1640
 5.00
check valve for new sprinkler pipes [subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an 
allowance
21  13   13   00 0010
Concealed Piping, Extra Hazard, Complete Wet-Pipe Sprinkler System, Per 
HeadIncludes branch pipe and fittings, supports and sprinkler heads with flat 
or conical escutcheon.
128
$5,022.43
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 5,022.43
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 431.48
 1.1640
 10.00
used for fire sprinkler [subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
21  13   13   00 0010
0005
For >5 To 10, Add
129
$1,553.71
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 1,553.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 133.48
 1.1640
 10.00
21  13   13   00 0013
2" Wet-Pipe Alarm Valve
130
$6,770.48
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 5,140.92
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,472.20
 1.1640
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 1,629.55
 699.98
 1.1640
 2.00
used for fire sprinkler [subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
$18,339.42
Subtotal for Section - 21
Section - 22
22  01   40   81 0025
Toilet Bowl Ring, Flat Wax, ReplacementExcludes removal of toilet.
131
$42.53
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 42.53
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 6.09
 1.1640
 6.00
wax rings for
Page 13 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
181 of 250

--- page 182 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 22
22  05   76   00 0016
4-1/4" Diameter Wall Cover For Cleanout, Screwed
132
$330.52
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 276.57
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 79.20
 1.1640
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 53.95
 15.45
 1.1640
 3.00
CAP ALL FIXTURES DURING DEMO TO AVOID OFF GASSING INCLUDING URINALS?
22  05   76   00 0016
0221
For Vandal Proof Screws, Add
133
$59.01
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 59.01
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 19.50
 1.1640
 2.60
22  07   16   00 0002
Neoprene Insulation Kit For Under Lavatories
134
$983.86
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 983.86
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 211.31
 1.1640
 4.00
new under counter pipe covers for lavs
22  07   19   00 0029
1/2" Diameter Pipe, 1-1/2" Thick, Fiberglass Insulation With All Service Jacket 
(ASJ)
135
$2,546.72
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,983.81
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 8.74
 1.1640
 195.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 562.91
 2.48
 1.1640
 195.00
water lines insulation
22  07   19   00 0033
1-1/2" Diameter Pipe, 1-1/2" Thick, Fiberglass Insulation With All Service Jacket 
(ASJ)
136
$763.26
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 598.02
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 9.88
 1.1640
 52.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 165.24
 2.73
 1.1640
 52.00
insulation for plumbing pipes
22  07   19   00 0034
2" Diameter Pipe, 1-1/2" Thick, Fiberglass Insulation With All Service Jacket 
(ASJ)
137
$513.57
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 403.33
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 10.50
 1.1640
 33.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 110.24
 2.87
 1.1640
 33.00
insulation for plumbing pipes
22  11   16   00 0350
1/2" Hard Drawn Type L Copper Tube/Pipe
138
$1,566.16
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,055.46
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.65
 1.1640
 195.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 510.71
 2.25
 1.1640
 195.00
new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
22  11   16   00 0350
0129
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
139
$231.52
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 231.52
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.02
 1.1640
 195.00
22  11   16   00 0354
1-1/2" Hard Drawn Type L Copper Tube/Pipe
140
$995.08
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 724.52
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 11.97
 1.1640
 52.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 270.56
 4.47
 1.1640
 52.00
new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
22  11   16   00 0354
0129
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
141
$121.66
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 121.66
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.01
 1.1640
 52.00
22  11   16   00 0355
2" Hard Drawn Type L Copper Tube/Pipe
142
$836.42
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 627.98
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 16.60
 1.1640
 32.50
Demolition
x
x
=
 208.44
 5.51
 1.1640
 32.50
new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
Page 14 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
182 of 250

--- page 183 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 22
22  11   16   00 0355
0129
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
143
$93.82
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 93.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.48
 1.1640
 32.50
22  11   16   00 0417
1/2" 90 Degree Copper Elbow
144
$1,204.27
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 730.53
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 31.38
 1.1640
 20.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 473.75
 20.35
 1.1640
 20.00
fittings for new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
22  11   16   00 0417
0129
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
145
$207.91
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 207.91
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 9.16
 1.1640
 19.50
22  11   16   00 0481
1-1/2" Reducing Copper Tee
146
$1,426.13
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 948.99
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 101.91
 1.1640
 8.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 477.15
 51.24
 1.1640
 8.00
fittings for new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
22  11   16   00 0481
0129
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
147
$209.09
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 209.09
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 23.03
 1.1640
 7.80
22  11   16   00 0482
2" Reducing Copper Tee
148
$1,673.46
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,139.42
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 122.36
 1.1640
 8.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 534.04
 57.35
 1.1640
 8.00
fittings for new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
22  11   16   00 0482
0129
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
149
$234.33
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 234.33
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 25.81
 1.1640
 7.80
22  11   16   00 0507
1-1/2" Reducing Copper Coupling
150
$872.44
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 553.78
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 59.47
 1.1640
 8.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 318.66
 34.22
 1.1640
 8.00
fittings for new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
22  11   16   00 0507
0129
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
151
$139.82
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 139.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 15.40
 1.1640
 7.80
22  11   16   00 0508
2" Reducing Copper Coupling
152
$999.83
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 646.72
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 69.45
 1.1640
 8.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 353.11
 37.92
 1.1640
 8.00
fittings for new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
22  11   16   00 0508
0129
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
153
$154.98
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 154.98
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 17.07
 1.1640
 7.80
22  11   16   00 0522
1-1/2" Male Copper Adapter
154
$862.15
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 534.83
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 65.64
 1.1640
 7.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 327.32
 35.15
 1.1640
 8.00
fittings for new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
Page 15 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
183 of 250

--- page 184 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 22
22  11   16   00 0522
0129
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
155
$119.69
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 119.69
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 15.82
 1.1640
 6.50
22  11   16   00 0523
2" Male Copper Adapter
156
$1,146.18
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 728.35
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 89.39
 1.1640
 7.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 417.83
 44.87
 1.1640
 8.00
fittings for new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
22  11   16   00 0534
1-1/2" Female Copper Adapter
157
$629.08
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 424.51
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 72.94
 1.1640
 5.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 204.57
 35.15
 1.1640
 5.00
fittings for new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
22  11   16   00 0535
2" Female Copper Adapter
158
$1,191.56
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 773.73
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 94.96
 1.1640
 7.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 417.83
 44.87
 1.1640
 8.00
fittings for new water pipes both hot and cold in mens and womens restrooms
22  11   16   00 0734
Up To 1/2", Cut And Prepare Existing In Place Copper Pipe
159
$172.27
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 172.27
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 9.25
 1.1640
 16.00
cut and prep existing water pipes for new work
22  11   16   00 0738
1-1/2", Cut And Prepare Existing In Place Copper Pipe
160
$72.63
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 72.63
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 12.48
 1.1640
 5.00
cut and prep existing water pipes for new work
22  11   16   00 0739
2", Cut And Prepare Existing In Place Copper Pipe
161
$79.97
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 79.97
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 13.74
 1.1640
 5.00
cut and prep existing water pipes for new work
22  11   16   00 0871
3/4" Brass Push-Fit Ball Valve(Sharkbite)
162
$271.44
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 197.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 33.99
 1.1640
 5.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 73.62
 12.65
 1.1640
 5.00
shut offs for new water pipe work
22  11   19   00 0040
1/2" Inlet/Outlet, Flow Through Automatic Trap Primer (JR Smith 2699)
163
$250.53
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 234.38
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 201.36
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 16.14
 13.87
 1.1640
 1.00
trap primer per plumbing layout
22  11   19   00 0047
Two Outlet Manifold
164
$436.22
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 378.28
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 162.49
 1.1640
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 57.94
 24.89
 1.1640
 2.00
water outlet manifold for fixtures in men and women's
22  11   19   00 0048
Four Outlet Manifold
165
$948.08
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 849.22
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 243.19
 1.1640
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 98.86
 28.31
 1.1640
 3.00
water outlet manifold for fixtures in men and women's
Page 16 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
184 of 250

--- page 185 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 22
22  13   13   00 0005
Tank Type Floor Mounted Water Closet, Single Fixture Rough-In, Cast Iron 
Waste And Vent PipeIncludes cast iron waste and vent pipe and copper 
domestic supply. Excludes fixture.
166
$5,925.06
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 5,925.06
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 727.18
 1.1640
 7.00
rough ins for new water closets in men and women's restrooms
22  13   13   00 0006
Wall Mounted Urinal, Single Fixture Rough-In, Cast Iron Waste And Vent 
PipeIncludes cast iron waste and vent pipe and copper domestic supply. 
Excludes fixture, carrier and flush valve.
167
$709.74
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 709.74
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 469.03
 1.1640
 1.30
rough ins for urinal in mens restroom
22  13   13   00 0007
Wall Mounted Lavatory, Single Fixture Rough-In, Cast Iron Waste And Vent 
PipeIncludes cast iron waste and vent pipe and copper domestic supply. 
Excludes fixture, carrier and faucet.
168
$2,573.09
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,573.09
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 552.64
 1.1640
 4.00
rough ins for lavs in men and women's restrooms
22  13   16   00 0271
2" No Hub Cast Iron Pipe
169
$1,930.99
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,354.77
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 12.79
 1.1640
 91.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 576.23
 5.44
 1.1640
 91.00
waste and vent pipe for mens and women's restrooms
22  13   16   00 0271
0119
For Below Ground Installation, Add
170
$43.43
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 43.43
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 0.41
 1.1640
 91.00
22  13   16   00 0271
2" No Hub Cast Iron Pipe
171
$2,758.56
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,935.38
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 12.79
 1.1640
 130.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 823.18
 5.44
 1.1640
 130.00
used for sprinklers [subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
22  13   16   00 0273
4" No Hub Cast Iron Pipe
172
$4,114.69
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 2,866.61
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 23.68
 1.1640
 104.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 1,248.09
 10.31
 1.1640
 104.00
waste pipe for mens and womens restrooms
22  13   16   00 0281
2" No Hub Cast Iron Long Sweep
173
$832.61
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 551.15
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 47.35
 1.1640
 10.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 281.46
 24.18
 1.1640
 10.00
fittings for waste pipe for mens and womens restrooms
22  13   16   00 0281
0119
For Below Ground Installation, Add
174
$21.91
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 21.91
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.81
 1.1640
 10.40
22  13   16   00 0283
4" No Hub Cast Iron Long Sweep
175
$915.18
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 616.89
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 75.71
 1.1640
 7.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 298.30
 36.61
 1.1640
 7.00
fittings for waste pipe for mens and womens restrooms
Page 17 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
185 of 250

--- page 186 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 22
22  13   16   00 0283
0119
For Below Ground Installation, Add
176
$20.81
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 20.81
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.75
 1.1640
 6.50
22  13   16   00 0316
2" No Hub Cast Iron Wye
177
$1,084.25
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 681.91
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 83.69
 1.1640
 7.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 402.35
 49.38
 1.1640
 7.00
fittings for waste pipe for mens and womens restrooms
22  13   16   00 0316
0119
For Below Ground Installation, Add
178
$27.99
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 27.99
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.70
 1.1640
 6.50
22  13   16   00 0326
4" x 2" No Hub Cast Iron Reducing Wye
179
$1,893.94
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,198.22
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 102.94
 1.1640
 10.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 695.72
 59.77
 1.1640
 10.00
fittings for waste pipe for mens and womens restrooms
22  13   16   00 0326
0119
For Below Ground Installation, Add
180
$54.23
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 54.23
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.48
 1.1640
 10.40
22  13   16   00 0376
2" No Hub Cast Iron Sanitary Tee
181
$1,709.97
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,077.71
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 84.17
 1.1640
 11.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 632.26
 49.38
 1.1640
 11.00
fittings for waste pipe for mens and womens restrooms
22  13   16   00 0407
2" No Hub Cast Iron Cleanout Plug
182
$223.42
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 138.98
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 39.80
 1.1640
 3.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 84.44
 24.18
 1.1640
 3.00
fittings for waste pipe for mens and womens restrooms
22  13   16   00 0455
2" No Hub Cast Iron Deep Seal P-Trap
183
$945.91
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 659.66
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 70.84
 1.1640
 8.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 286.25
 30.74
 1.1640
 8.00
fittings for waste pipe for mens and womens restrooms
22  13   16   00 0468
2" No Hub Coupling
184
$65.30
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 65.30
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 5.61
 1.1640
 10.00
fittings for waste pipe for mens and womens restrooms
22  13   16   00 0468
0118
For Heavy Duty (Fernco HD-4000), Add
185
$17.58
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 17.58
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.51
 1.1640
 10.00
22  13   16   00 0470
4" No Hub Coupling
186
$91.96
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 91.96
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 7.90
 1.1640
 10.00
fittings for waste pipe for mens and womens restrooms
22  13   16   00 0470
0118
For Heavy Duty (Fernco HD-4000), Add
187
$25.78
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 25.78
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.13
 1.1640
 10.40
Page 18 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
186 of 250

--- page 187 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 22
22  13   16   00 0490
Cut And Prepare 2" Cast Iron Pipe, No Hub
188
$59.19
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 59.19
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 10.17
 1.1640
 5.00
Cut And Prepare existing pipes for new work in men and women's restrooms
22  13   16   00 0492
Cut And Prepare 4" Cast Iron Pipe, No Hub
189
$113.01
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 113.01
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 13.87
 1.1640
 7.00
Cut And Prepare existing pipes for new work in men and women's restrooms
22  42   13   13 0005
Flush Valve Type, Siphon Jet, Floor Mounted, Wall Outlet, Elongated Vitreous 
China Water Closet (American Standard Priolo®)
190
$6,267.85
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 5,443.27
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 668.05
 1.1640
 7.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 824.58
 88.55
 1.1640
 8.00
water closets for men's and women's restrooms per floor plans
22  42   13   13 0066
Vertical On Stack, Floor Mount Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Adaptor Type, Single 
Water Closet Carrier
191
$4,350.97
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 3,932.31
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 482.61
 1.1640
 7.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 418.67
 44.96
 1.1640
 8.00
carrier for water closets in men's and women's restrooms
22  42   13   16 0004
Washout, Wall Hung, Vitreous China Urinal With Top Spud (American Standard 
Washbrook®)
192
$937.95
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 725.85
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 623.58
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 212.10
 91.11
 1.1640
 2.00
urinal per floor plans in men's restroom
22  42   13   16 0035
Wall Mounted Hanger Plate Type, Single Urinal Carrier
193
$271.29
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 195.96
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 168.35
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 75.33
 32.36
 1.1640
 2.00
carrier for urinal
22  42   13   16 0035
0301
For Up To 6-1/2" Extension Sleeves And Hardware, Add
194
$24.56
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 24.56
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 16.23
 1.1640
 1.30
22  42   16   13 0004
20" x 18" Porcelain Enameled Cast Iron Wall Hung Lavatory (American 
Standard Regalyn™)
195
$531.25
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 0.00
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 513.64
 1.1640
 0.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 531.25
 57.05
 1.1640
 8.00
demolition of existing wall hung lavs per demolition floor plan
22  42   16   13 0071
1 Station Lavatory Sink, Quartz Surface Evero® (Bradley Verge LVRD1)
196
$2,329.76
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,329.76
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2,001.51
 1.1640
 1.00
new lav in men's restroom
22  42   16   13 0072
2 Station Lavatory Sink, Quartz Surface Evero® (Bradley Verge LVRD2)
197
$4,553.82
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,553.82
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3,912.22
 1.1640
 1.00
new lav in women's restroom
Page 19 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
187 of 250

--- page 188 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 22
22  42   16   13 0097
Wall Mounted Adjustable Plate Type, Single Lavatory Carrier With Exposed 
Acid Resistant White Coated Arms
198
$2,436.67
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,079.93
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 446.72
 1.1640
 4.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 356.74
 38.31
 1.1640
 8.00
carrier for lavs in men's and women's restrooms
22  42   16   13 0097
0299
For Up To 4-1/2" Extension Sleeves And Hardware, Add
199
$73.68
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 73.68
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 16.23
 1.1640
 3.90
22  42   16   13 0097
0311
For Vandal Proof Trim, Add
200
$200.11
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 200.11
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 44.08
 1.1640
 3.90
22  42   39   00 0153
Thermostatic Mixing Valve Kit For The SEF-1800 (Speakman SEF-TW)
201
$5,245.68
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 5,047.43
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,084.07
 1.1640
 4.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 198.25
 21.29
 1.1640
 8.00
mixing valves in men's and women's restrooms for lavs
22  42   39   00 0176
Electronic Soap Dispenser And Faucet Combination (Sloan Optima 
ESD-35187)
202
$5,265.94
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 5,265.94
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,131.00
 1.1640
 4.00
soap dispensers per plumbing schedule for lavs in men's and women's restrooms
22  42   43   00 0007
Exposed Infrared Water Closet Flush Valve (Sloan Royal 115-1.6 ES-S)
203
$4,903.47
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,903.47
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 601.80
 1.1640
 7.00
flush valve per plumbing schedule for water closets in men's and women's lavs
22  42   43   00 0038
Exposed Infrared Urinal Flush Valve (Sloan Royal 186-ES-S)1.0 or 1.5 GPF.
204
$589.38
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 589.38
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 506.34
 1.1640
 1.00
flush valve for ueinal in men's restroom per plumbing schedule
22  42   43   00 0053
6 Volt DC, 120 Volt AC Plug In Style Power Transformer (Zurn P6000-PC6)
205
$318.59
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 318.59
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 39.10
 1.1640
 7.00
transformer for auto valves water closets in men and women's restrooms
$86,845.76
Subtotal for Section - 22
Section - 23
23  01   20   91 0002
Up To 1", Lock Out/Tag Out Valve
206
$134.62
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 134.62
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 23.13
 1.1640
 5.00
water shut off safety
23  01   20   91 0003
>1" To 3", Lock Out/Tag Out Valve
207
$161.51
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 161.51
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 27.75
 1.1640
 5.00
water shut off safety
23  01   20   91 0016
>1" To 2", Water/Chlorine Pipe Disinfection/Flush/Testing
208
$4,743.88
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 4,743.88
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.09
 1.1640
 1,950.00
for existing hot and cold water lines
Page 20 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
188 of 250

--- page 189 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 23
23  01   20   91 0024
Shut Down Existing Interior Piping SystemIncludes lock out/tag out and 
average line tracing. Use when valves are greater than 25' from work. When 
the shut-off valves for multiple lines are located with a 10' radius, the quantity 
used shall be one.
209
$869.79
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 869.79
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 186.81
 1.1640
 4.00
for existing hot and cold water lines isolation during construction
23  05   93   00 0010
Balancing Constant Volume Air Handling Unit
210
$793.28
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 793.28
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 681.51
 1.1640
 1.00
air balancing since tie-ins into existing system
23  05   93   00 0012
Balancing Rooftop Heat And Cool Unit
211
$396.63
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 396.63
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 340.75
 1.1640
 1.00
air balancing since tying into existing system
23  05   93   00 0015
Balancing HVAC Duct System, Ceiling Height To 12' Supply, Return, Exhaust, 
Register And Diffuser
212
$788.38
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 788.38
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 67.73
 1.1640
 10.00
air balancing since tying into existing system
23  05   93   00 0026
Balance Dampers
213
$292.75
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 292.75
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 25.15
 1.1640
 10.00
air balancing since tying into existing system
23  07   13   00 0028
1" Thick, Sheet Flexible Elastomeric Insulation
214
$6,868.41
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 5,719.90
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 12.60
 1.1640
 390.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 1,148.52
 2.53
 1.1640
 390.00
duct insulation per mechanical notes
23  09   23   00 0246
Lighting Control Program
215
$4,234.41
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,234.41
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3,637.81
 1.1640
 1.00
lighting dimming control
23  31   13   13 0004
3" WG (Class B), Rectangular Or Square, Fabricated Galvanized Steel Sheet 
Metal Ductwork
216
$9,814.62
LB
Installation
=
x
x
 7,608.37
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 8.38
 1.1640
 780.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 2,206.25
 2.43
 1.1640
 780.00
new duct work utr and square ducts
23  31   13   13 0004
0077
For >500 To 1,000, Add
217
$1,098.58
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 1,098.58
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.21
 1.1640
 780.00
23  31   13   13 0004
0081
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
218
$2,124.53
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 2,124.53
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 2.34
 1.1640
 780.00
23  31   13   16 0067
8" Diameter, 26 Gauge, 2" WG And Less (Class C), Galvanized Sheet Metal 
Round Connector
219
$814.87
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 814.87
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 20.59
 1.1640
 34.00
duct fittings
Page 21 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
189 of 250

--- page 190 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 23
23  31   13   16 0067
0096
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
220
$219.65
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 219.65
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 5.55
 1.1640
 34.00
23  31   13   16 0090
8" Diameter, 26 Gauge, 2" WG And Less (Class C), Slip Joint, Galvanized, 
Spiral Duct 90 Degree Elbow
221
$2,187.76
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,187.76
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 110.56
 1.1640
 17.00
duct fittings
23  31   13   16 0090
0096
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
222
$519.63
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 519.63
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 26.26
 1.1640
 17.00
23  31   13   19 0004
10" x 2-1/4" x 5" Register Boot, 90 Degree, Galvanized Steel
223
$451.28
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 319.98
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 27.49
 1.1640
 10.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 131.30
 11.28
 1.1640
 10.00
duct fittings
23  33   23   00 0009
20" High Duct Turning Vanes, Sets
224
$660.78
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 660.78
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 36.39
 1.1640
 15.60
turning vanes for rectangular ducts per mechanical general notes
23  33   23   00 0009
0130
For Stainless Steel, Add
225
$731.24
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 731.24
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 40.27
 1.1640
 15.60
23  37   13   00 0083
24" x 24" Single Deflection Return/Exhaust Register, Aluminum, Opposed 
Blade Damper, Wall/Ceiling
226
$302.58
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 278.42
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 239.19
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 24.16
 20.76
 1.1640
 1.00
new register per mechanical plans
23  37   13   00 0083
0137
For Cube Core Lay In, Add
227
$36.77
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 36.77
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 31.59
 1.1640
 1.00
23  37   13   00 0184
12" x 12" Adjustable Shutter Blade Register, Double Deflection, Flat Aluminum 
Frame
228
$2,012.54
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,889.66
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 180.38
 1.1640
 9.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 122.88
 11.73
 1.1640
 9.00
new ceiling regs per mechanical plans
23  37   13   00 0285
Up To 4 SF, 304 Stainless Steel, Perforated Supply Grille
229
$1,739.96
SF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,592.35
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 152.00
 1.1640
 9.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 147.61
 14.09
 1.1640
 9.00
grills for registers per mechanical plans
$41,998.45
Subtotal for Section - 23
Section - 26
26  01   20   91 0002
Lock Out/Tag Out Local Disconnect
230
$179.83
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 179.83
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 22.07
 1.1640
 7.00
electrical safety
Page 22 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
190 of 250

--- page 191 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 26
26  05   19   13 0016
Box, Wall, Flush With Cover
231
$1,341.98
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,154.34
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 99.17
 1.1640
 10.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 187.64
 16.12
 1.1640
 10.00
jbox and connections for new power at lights and equipment
26  05   29   00 0006
>1' To 2' Length x 1-5/8" Wide x 1-5/8" High, 14 Gauge, Steel Unistrut Channel
232
$524.48
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 524.48
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 17.33
 1.1640
 26.00
struts for hanging from seismic bracing for hangers
26  05   29   00 0084
1/2" Diameter, Steel, Standard Pipe And Rigid Conduit Clamp For Unistrut 
Channel
233
$54.93
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 54.93
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 3.63
 1.1640
 13.00
clamps for pies to struts for hanging from seismic bracing for hangers
26  05   29   00 0089
2" Diameter, Steel, Standard Pipe And Rigid Conduit Clamp For Unistrut 
Channel
234
$38.96
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 38.96
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 5.15
 1.1640
 6.50
clamps for pies to struts for hanging from seismic bracing for hangers
26  05   33   13 0010
3/4" Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) Conduit Assembly With 3 #12 Copper 
THHN And 1 #12 Copper Insulated Grounding ConductorIncludes conduit, set 
screw connectors, set screw couplings, straps, wire as indicated. Not for 
use where detail is available.
235
$4,554.67
CLF
Installation
=
x
x
 3,513.92
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 774.06
 1.1640
 3.90
Demolition
x
x
=
 1,040.75
 229.26
 1.1640
 3.90
new power for fixtures and power
26  05   33   13 0010
0011
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
236
$892.03
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 892.03
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 196.50
 1.1640
 3.90
26  05   33   13 0601
3/4" Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) Conduit
237
$1,793.14
LF
Installation
=
x
x
 1,793.14
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4.74
 1.1640
 325.00
conduit for fire alarm [ subject to change when drawings are approved] line item is an allowance
26  05   33   13 0601
0025
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
238
$457.74
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 457.74
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1.21
 1.1640
 325.00
26  05   33   13 0612
3/4" Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) 90 Degree Elbow
239
$164.79
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 164.79
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 10.89
 1.1640
 13.00
conduit fittings  for fire alarm [ subject to change when drawings are approved] line item is an allowance
26  05   33   13 0645
3/4" Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) Compression Coupling
240
$183.70
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 183.70
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 6.07
 1.1640
 26.00
conduit fittings  for fire alarm [ subject to change when drawings are approved] line item is an allowance
26  05   33   13 0656
3/4" Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) Straight Box Connector With Set Screw
241
$76.11
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 76.11
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 5.03
 1.1640
 13.00
conduit fittings  for fire alarm [ subject to change when drawings are approved] line item is an allowance
Page 23 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
191 of 250

--- page 192 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 26
26  05   33   13 0719
3/4" Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) Pulling Elbow With Set Screws
242
$295.07
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 295.07
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 19.50
 1.1640
 13.00
conduit fittings  for fire alarm [ subject to change when drawings are approved] line item is an allowance
26  05   33   16 0038
3-1/4" Depth, 4-11/16" Square Steel Box
243
$260.56
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 260.56
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 44.77
 1.1640
 5.00
j box for electrical power in men and women's restrooms
26  05   33   23 0369
#AL3346G GFCI/Surge Receptacle Cover
244
$98.47
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 84.39
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 14.50
 1.1640
 5.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 14.08
 2.42
 1.1640
 5.00
power outlet covers
26  09   23   00 0138
2,000 Watt Dimming Capacity, 120/277 Volt, Dimming Module System (Lutron 
Grafik Eye Hi-Power HP-2)
245
$2,342.13
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,342.13
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,006.07
 1.1640
 2.00
dimming for both restrooms
26  09   23   00 0146
4 Relays, Surface Mount, Lighting Control Panel (Watt Stopper LP8S-4)
246
$2,919.73
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 2,919.73
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,254.18
 1.1640
 2.00
control for lighting men and womens restrooms
26  09   23   00 0658
Wireless, Dual Technology, Ceiling Mount, 500 SF Coverage, 180 Degree 
View Occupancy Sensor With Relay (Lutron® LOS-CDT-500R-WH)
247
$414.03
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 367.80
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 157.99
 1.1640
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 46.23
 19.86
 1.1640
 2.00
control for lighting men and womens restrooms
26  09   23   00 0787
600 Watt, 120 Volt, RF Wireless Technology, Electronic Low-Voltage Dimmer 
(Lutron® Maestro Wireless® MRF2-6ELV-120)
248
$883.07
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 780.35
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 134.08
 1.1640
 5.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 102.72
 17.65
 1.1640
 5.00
dimmers per electrical floor plan
26  27   26   00 0128
20 Amp, 125 Volt Duplex Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter (GFCI), Specification 
Grade Tamper Resistant ReceptaclePass & Seymour 2095-TRS.
249
$337.62
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 286.29
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 49.19
 1.1640
 5.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 51.33
 8.82
 1.1640
 5.00
gfci for both restrooms per electrical floor plans
26  51   13   00 0421
2' x 4', 4,600 Lumens, Surface Mount, Shadow Box Style LED Fixture 
(Lithonia 2SBSLX4)
250
$349.67
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 0.00
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 586.96
 1.1640
 0.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 349.67
 37.55
 1.1640
 8.00
demo existing lighting both restrooms
26  51   13   00 0430
4' Length, 4,000 Lumens, Wall Bracket And Surface Mount LED Fixture 
(Lithonia WL4 Series)
251
$802.09
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 802.09
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 344.54
 1.1640
 2.00
install new vanity lights
Page 24 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
192 of 250

--- page 193 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 26
26  51   13   00 0816
6" Round, Compact Fluorescent, T Or ICT Recessed Fixture Housing
252
$1,712.06
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,712.06
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 105.06
 1.1640
 14.00
install new down lights both restrooms
26  51   13   00 0816
0190
For ICAT Housing, Add
253
$137.54
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 137.54
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 8.44
 1.1640
 14.00
26  51   13   00 0845
Specular Reflector, Recessed Fixture Trim
254
$940.44
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 940.44
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 57.71
 1.1640
 14.00
for new down lights in both restrooms
$21,754.84
Subtotal for Section - 26
Section - 27
27  14   13   16 0010
8 Pair #12 AWG, Solid, Shielded, Non-Plenum Rated, Low Voltage, Alarm And 
Communications Cable, Installed In Conduit
255
$6,555.95
MLF
Installation
=
x
x
 5,250.22
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4,510.50
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 1,305.73
 1,121.76
 1.1640
 1.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
27  14   13   16 0010
0030
For Work In Restricted Working Space, Add
256
$652.75
MOD
Installation
=
x
x
 652.75
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 560.78
 1.1640
 1.00
27  14   43   00 0056
Cat 6, Snap-In Modular Jack
257
$213.42
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 162.03
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 27.84
 1.1640
 5.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 51.39
 8.83
 1.1640
 5.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
27  14   43   00 0076
Label Both Ends Of One 4 Pair Cable
258
$403.91
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 403.91
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 17.35
 1.1640
 20.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
27  14   43   00 0077
Label single gang face plate (2 labels required)
259
$80.78
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 80.78
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 13.88
 1.1640
 5.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
27  16   19   00 0045
10' Category 6 Patch Cables With Boots
260
$107.09
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 107.09
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 18.40
 1.1640
 5.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
27  32   19   00 0028
Level 5, RJ-45 Jack, Wall Mount - Complete
261
$325.69
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 325.69
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 55.96
 1.1640
 5.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
27  32   19   00 0043
Terminating Boxes, Outside With 3 Element Protectors, Per Pair
262
$177.10
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 177.10
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 30.43
 1.1640
 5.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
Page 25 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
193 of 250

--- page 194 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
$8,516.69
Subtotal for Section - 27
Section - 28
28  46   21   33 0405
4100U Master Controller Assembly With LCD And Operator Interface, 9 Amp 
System Power Supply/Battery Charger (SPS), 250 Point IDNet Interface, 3 
NACS, Auxiliary Relay And External RUI Communications Interface, 120 VAC 
Input (Simplex 4100-9111)
263
$5,418.12
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,905.10
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4,214.00
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 513.02
 440.74
 1.1640
 1.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
28  46   21   33 0414
2 Bay Backbox With Glass Door And Dress Panel (Simplex 2975-9425)24" x 
40" beige backbox.
264
$1,630.22
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 1,527.61
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 1,312.38
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 102.61
 88.15
 1.1640
 1.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
28  46   21   33 0420
240 VAC Fire Alarm Control Panel With Door, Cabinet, Power Supply/Battery 
Charger, IDNet Interface, 4 NACs, 2 Programmable Auxiliary Relays, And 
External N2 Communications Interface (Simplex 4010-9201)
265
$5,208.96
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 4,695.94
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 4,034.31
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 513.02
 440.74
 1.1640
 1.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance g
28  46   21   33 0432
50 Amp Hours Sealed Lead Acid Battery (Simplex 2081-9296)Two required 
for 24 volt DC.
266
$633.38
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 607.72
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 522.10
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 25.65
 22.04
 1.1640
 1.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
28  46   21   33 0494
Wall Mount, White Housing, Red Lettering, Horn And Intensity Selectable (135, 
177 Or 185 Candela) Multi-Candela Strobe (Simplex 4906-9141)
267
$397.81
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 320.84
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 137.82
 1.1640
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 76.96
 33.06
 1.1640
 2.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
28  46   21   33 0531
Semi-Flush Mount Modular Adapter Using Standard 4” Square Electrical Box  
(Simplex 4905-9921)
268
$134.61
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 108.95
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 46.80
 1.1640
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 25.65
 11.02
 1.1640
 2.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
28  46   21   33 0533
Red, Surface Mount Adapter Skirt (Simplex 4905-9937)
269
$119.10
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 93.45
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 40.14
 1.1640
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 25.65
 11.02
 1.1640
 2.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
28  46   21   33 0536
End-Of-Line Resistor Harness, 10 k Ohms, 1/2 Watt, Two Required, One Each 
For Audible And Visible Output (Simplex 4081-9008)
270
$83.06
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 57.41
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 24.66
 1.1640
 2.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 25.65
 11.02
 1.1640
 2.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
Page 26 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
194 of 250

--- page 195 ---
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail Continues..
Work Order Title:
Work Order Number:
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
Section - 28
28  46   21   33 2269
128 Point Lockable Fire Alarm Terminal Cabinet
271
$490.57
EA
Installation
=
x
x
 439.19
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 377.31
 1.1640
 1.00
Demolition
x
x
=
 51.38
 44.14
 1.1640
 1.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
28  46   21   33 2272
Test And Certification Of Fire Alarm SystemGCC Programming and 
Engineering; Programming of the Fire Alarm System.
272
$1,831.79
HR
Installation
=
x
x
 1,831.79
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 157.37
 1.1640
 10.00
fire alarm wiring [ subject to change when drawings are approved] this line item is an allowance
$15,947.62
Subtotal for Section - 28
Section - 31
31  23   16   13 0007
Excavation For Trenching By Hand In SoilIncludes stockpiling excess materials 
and trimming sides and bottom of trench.
273
$509.39
CY
Installation
=
x
x
 509.39
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 112.21
 1.1640
 3.90
trenching for underground plumbing
31  23   16   13 0011
Backfilling or Placing Subbase for Trenches with Imported or Stockpiled 
Materials by Hand
274
$141.50
CY
Installation
=
x
x
 141.50
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 31.17
 1.1640
 3.90
back filling for underground plumbing
31  23   16   13 0014
Compaction of Fill or Subbase for Trenches by Hand
275
$159.61
CY
Installation
=
x
x
 159.61
Factor
Unit Price
Quantity
Total
 35.16
 1.1640
 3.90
compaction of fill for underground plumbing
$810.50
Subtotal for Section - 31
Proposal Total
This total represents the correct total for the proposal.  Any discrepancy between line totals, 
sub-totals and the proposal total is due to rounding.
$492,932.79
The Percentage of NPP on this Proposal:
%
Page 27 of 27
1/31/2022
Contractor's Price Proposal - Detail
195 of 250

--- page 196 ---
Subcontractor Listing
094887.00
San Mateo City Hall staff restroom renovations
CA08-SCI-GB05-080719-ACI
IQC Master Contract #:
Work Order #:
Owner PO #:
Title:
Re:
January 31, 2022
Date:
Proposal Value:
Contractor: 
Angeles Contractor Inc.
$492,932.79
%
Duties
Name of Contractor
Amount
No Subcontractors have been 
selected for this Work Order
 0.00
$0.00
 6.00
Page 1 of 1
1/31/2022
Subcontractor Listing
196 of 250

--- page 197 ---
WOMEN'S
MEN'S
WOMEN'S
MEN'S
CORRIDOR
MOTHER'S
ROOM
JAN.
JAN.
CITY CLERK
EXTERIOR
COURTYARD
TEL.
EQUIP.
CITY
ATTORNEY
FINANCE
I.T.
MAIL
ELEC.
I.T.
FE
FE
FE
FE
FE
FE
FE
K-4350W ELCO M E
C_TO ILETS
VITREO US CHINA
K-4350W ELCO M E
C_TO ILETS
VITREO US CHINA
K-4350W ELCO M E
C_TO ILETS
VITREO US CHINA
K-4350W ELCO M E
C_TO ILETS
VITREO US CHINA
K-4350W ELCO M E
C_TO ILETS
VITREO US CHINA
K-4350W ELCO M E
C_TO ILETS
VITREO US CHINA
VITREO US CHINA
C_URINALSDEXTERK-5016-ET
VITREO US CHINA
C_URINALSDEXTERK-5016-ET
K-4350W ELCO M E
C_TO ILETS
VITREO US CHINA
K-4350W ELCO M E
C_TO ILETS
VITREO US CHINA
K-4350W ELCO M E
C_TO ILETS
VITREO US CHINA
VITREO US CHINA
C_URINALSDEXTERK-5016-ET
12
1A-9.1
TYP. FOR 6
12
1A-9.1
SIM. (TYP. FOR 4)
066
CITY
MANAGER
CITY
ATTORNEY
HUMAN
RESOURCES
078
067
068
072
069
073
071
065
LOUNGE
KITCH.
VEND.
SHOWER/
SHOWER/
LOCKERS
WOMEN
MEN
TRAINING
CONF.
RM.
C
WOMEN
STOR.
COUNCIL
CHAMBERS
STOR.
CREDIT
UNION
CITY
COUNCIL
CITY
CLERK
CABLE
CAST.
BOOTH
PG&E
LOCKERS
STOR.
MEN
COURTYARD
BUSINESS
SERVICES
(FINANCE)
CONF.
RM.
B
063
064
062
PUBLIC
WORKS
TRAFFIC
ENG.
I.T.
Council Chambers
1,910
A1 - 156 Fixed Seats
(includes 5
accessible seat
locations)
half / fixed seats
78
Council Chambers - City Council
Seats
710
18 seats at table
half / fixed seats
9
Council Chambers - Lobby
1,011
A-1 standing room
15
68
Toilet & Shower Rooms
(1,000)
Toilet Rooms,
Lockers, Showers
Removed
0
0
Council Chambers- Conference
Room
653
B Occupancy  occ.
Load 44; Use A-3
Occupancy for
Worse Case Scenario
30
22
Council Chambers less above
3,134
B Occupancy
200
16
361
181
3
2
3
7
3
Required Fixtures-
Council Chambers
5
6
6
8
6
Proposed Fixtures
5
5
4
7
5
Drinking Fountains
Required -3 drinking fountains (for entire
building)
Existing -1 high-low bottle filler drinking
fountain, 2 low drinking fountains to
remain as-is as they are not part of the
scope of work.
 Occupant Load Factors
2019 California Plumbing Code (Table 422.1)
B OCCUPANCY
OFFICE BUILDING
Area SF
Occupancy
Plumbing Fixture
Load Factor
Plumbing Fixture
Occ Load
Plumbing
Occupant Load
Men and Women
(50%)
WC Men
Urinals    Men
Lavatories
Men
WC Women
Lavatories
Women
Overall GSF
28,879
Toilet  Rooms
(732)
Toilet Rooms
Removed
0
0
Atrium
933
A-3 Tables & Chairs
30
32
Offices
27,214
200
136
Required Fixtures
168
84
2
1
2
4
2
A OCCUPANCY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS BUILDING
(INCLUDES LOUNGE AND
TRAINING)
Overall GSF
Area SF
Occupancy
Plumbing Fixture
Load Factor
Plumbing Fixture
Occ Load
Plumbing
Occupant Load
Men and Women
(50%)
WC Men
Urinals    Men
Lavatories
Men
WC Women
Lavatories
Women
8,418
Total Required Fixtures
Existing Fixtures
193
97
1
3
1
1
1
ABBREVIATIONS
# 
NUMBER (NO.) OR POUND (LB.)
& 
AND
(E) 
EXISTING
(N) 
NEW
@ 
AT
L or < 
ANGLE
Ø 
DIAMETER  
A/V 
AUDIO VISUAL 
A.F.F.
ABOVE FINISHED FLOOR 
A.H.J. 
AUTHORITY HAVING 
JURISDICTION 
ACC. 
ACCESSIBLE / ACCESSIBILITY
ACT.
ACOUSTICAL TILE
ADJ. 
ADJUSTABLE / ADJACENT 
ALT. 
ALTERNATIVE
ALUM. 
ALUMINUM 
ANOD. 
ANODIZED 
APPROX. 
APPROXIMATE 
ARCH. 
ARCHITECTURAL 
ASB. 
ASBESTOS 
ASPH. 
ASPHALT 
AVG. 
AVERAGE 
B.O. 
BOTTOM OF 
BD. 
BOARD 
BLDG. 
BUILDING 
BLKG 
BLOCKING 
BM. 
BEAM
BOT. 
BOTTOM
BTWN. 
BETWEEN 
C.A.A.
CLEAR ANODIZED ALUMINUM
CAB. 
CABINET 
CBC
CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
CEM. 
CEMENT 
CER. 
CERAMIC 
CJ. 
CONTROL JOINT 
CLG. 
CEILING 
CLOS. 
CLOSET 
CLR. 
CLEAR  
COL. 
COLUMN 
CONC. 
CONCRETE 
CONN. 
CONNECTION 
CONSTR. 
CONSTRUCTION 
CONT. 
CONTINUOUS 
CONTR. 
CONTRACTOR 
CORR. 
CORRIDOR 
CPT. 
CARPET 
CTR. 
CENTER 
D.F. 
DRINKING FOUNTAIN 
DBL. 
DOUBLE 
DEPT. 
DEPARTMENT 
DET. 
DETAIL 
DIA. 
DIAMETER 
DIAG. 
DIAGONAL 
DIM. 
DIMENSION 
DISP. 
DISPENSER 
DN. 
DOWN
DR. 
DOOR
DWG. 
DRAWING 
DWR. 
DRAWER
(E)
EXISTING
E. 
EAST 
EA. 
EACH 
EJ. 
EXPANSION JOINT 
EL. 
ELEVATION 
ELEC. 
ELECTRICAL 
ELEV. 
ELEVATION 
EMER. 
EMERGENCY 
ENCL. 
ENCLOSURE 
ENGR. 
ENGINEER 
ENTR. 
ENTRANCE 
EQ. 
EQUAL 
EXPO. 
EXPOSED 
EXT. 
EXTERIOR 
F.PRF. 
FIREPROOF
F.E. 
FIRE EXTINGUISHER 
F.E.C. 
FIRE EXTINGUISHER CABINET
F.H.C. 
FIRE HOSE CABINET 
F.O.C. 
FACE OF CONCRETE 
F.O.F. 
FACE OF FINISH 
F.O.S. 
FACE OF STUD 
F.O.W. 
FACE OF WALL 
F.R.T. 
FIRE-RETARDANT-TREATED 
F.S. 
FULL SIZE 
FIN. 
FINISH(ED)
FLR. 
FLOOR 
FLUOR. 
FLUORESCENT 
FR. 
FRAME 
FT. 
FOOT or FEET
FURR. 
FURRING 
FUT. 
FUTURE 
G.B. 
GRAB BAR
G.C. 
GENERAL CONTRACTOR 
GA. 
GAUGE
GALV. 
GALVANIZED 
GEN. 
GENERAL 
GL. 
GLASS 
GYP. 
GYPSUM 
H.M. 
HOLLOW METAL 
HDWD. 
HARDWOOD 
HDWR. 
HARDWARE 
H.O.
HOLD OPEN
HORIZ. 
HORIZONTAL 
HR. 
HOUR
HT. 
HEIGHT 
IN.
INCH
INCL. 
INCLUDING 
INFO. 
INFORMATION 
INSUL. 
INSULATION 
INT. 
INTERIOR 
J-BOX 
JUNCTION BOX 
JAN. 
JANITOR 
KIT. 
KITCHEN 
LAB. 
LABORATORY 
LAM. 
LAMINATE 
LAT. 
LATERAL 
LAV. 
LAVATORY
LB. / LBS.
POUND / POUNDS
LT. 
LIGHT
LTG.
LIGHTING
M.C. 
MEDICINE CABINET 
MAG. 
MAGNETIC 
MAINT. 
MAINTENENCE 
MAT. 
MATERIAL 
MAX.
MAXIMUM 
MECH. 
MECHANICAL 
MEZZ. 
MEZZANINE 
MFR. 
MANUFACTURER 
MGR. 
MANAGER 
MIN. 
MINIMUM 
MISC. 
MISCELLANEOUS 
MTD. 
MOUNTED 
MTL. 
METAL 
MULL. 
MULLION 
(N)
NEW
N. 
NORTH 
N.I.C.
NOT IN CONTRACT 
N.T.S. 
NOT TO SCALE 
NO. or # 
NUMBER
NOM. 
NOMINAL 
O.A. 
OVERALL 
O.C. 
ON CENTER 
O.F.C.I. 
OWNER FURNISHED / 
CONTRACT OR INSTALLED
O.F.O.I. 
OWNER FURNISHED / 
OWNER INSTALLED
OFF. 
OFFICE
OPG. 
OPENING 
OPP. 
OPPOSITE 
ORIG. 
ORIGINAL 
OVHD. 
OVERHEAD 
OZ. 
OUNCE
P.LAM. 
PLASTIC LAMINATE 
P.L. 
PROPERTY LINE
P.A.F. 
POWDER ACTUATED 
FASTENER
PART.BD. PARTICLE BOARD 
PC. 
PIECE
PEN. 
PENETRATION 
PERP. 
PERPENDICULAR 
PL. 
PLATE 
PLAST. 
PLASTIC 
PLUMB. 
PLUMBING 
PLYWD. 
PLYWOOD 
PNL. 
PANEL 
PORT. 
PORTABLE 
PR. 
PAIR 
PREFAB. 
PREFABRICATED 
PROD. 
PRODUCTION 
PT. 
POINT
PTD. 
PAINTED 
PTN. 
PARTITION 
QTY. 
QUANTITY 
QUAL. 
QUALITY 
R.O. 
ROUGH OPENING 
RAD. 
RADIUS 
RDWD. 
REDWOOD 
REF. 
REFERENCE 
REFR. 
REFRIGERATOR 
REINF. 
REINFORCED 
REQ. 
REQUIRED
RM. 
ROOM 
S. 
SOUTH 
S.C. 
SOLID CORE 
S.F. 
SQUARE FEET 
S.S. 
STAINLESS STEEL 
SAN. 
SANITARY 
SCHED. 
SCHEDULE / SCHEDULED 
SECT. 
SECTION 
SERV. 
SERVICE 
SHT. 
SHEET 
SIM. 
SIMILAR 
SPEC. 
SPECIFICATION 
SPKR. 
SPEAKER 
SQ. 
SQUARE 
S.S.D.
SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS
STA. 
STATION 
STD. 
STANDARD
STL. 
STEEL 
STOR. 
STORAGE 
STR. 
STRUCTURE / STRUCTURAL 
SUSP. 
SUSPENDED 
SYM. 
SYMMETRICAL 
SYS. 
SYSTEM
T&B 
TOP AND BOTTOM 
T.O. 
TOP OF 
T.O.W. 
TOP OF WALL 
T.V. 
TELEVISION 
TEL. 
TELEPHONE 
TEMP. 
TEMPERED / TEMPERATURE 
THK. 
THICK(NESS) 
TYP. 
TYPICAL 
U.L. 
UNDERWRITERS LABORATORY 
U.O.N. 
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED 
UNF. 
UNFINISHED 
UTIL. 
UTILITY 
V.I.F. 
VERIFY IN FIELD 
VAR. 
VARIABLE / VARIES 
VEN. 
VENEER 
VERT. 
VERTICLE 
VEST. 
VESTIBULE 
VOL. 
VOLUME. 
W. 
WEST 
W.C. 
WATER CLOSET 
W.O. 
WHERE OCCURS 
W/ 
WITH 
W/O 
WITHOUT 
WD. 
WOOD 
WP. 
WATERPROOF 
WSCT. 
WAINSCOT 
WT. 
WEIGHT 
X 
TIMES OR BY (AS IN 2X4) 
YD. 
YARD
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
REMODEL OF THE EXISTING NON-ACCESSIBLE MEN AND WOMEN MULTI-ACCOMODATION 
RESTROOMS.
THERE WILL BE NO CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY AND NO CHANGE IN FLOOR AREA.
DEFERRED SUBMITTALS
DEFERRED SUBMITTALS INCLUDE:
• LIFE SAFETY / FIRE ALARM
• SPRINKLERS
PROJECT - GENERAL NOTES
1. DO NOT SCALE DRAWINGS; DIMENSIONS SHALL GOVERN. DETAILS SHALL GOVERN 
OVER PLANS AND ELEVATIONS.
2. ARROWS (
) INDICATE DIMENSIONS TO FINISHED SURFACE.
3. TICKS (
) INDICATE DIMENSIONS TO CENTERLINES.
4. DIMENSIONS NOTED "CLEAR" OR "CLR" ARE MINIMUM REQUIRED DIMENSIONS AND 
CLEARANCE MUST BE ACCURATELY MAINTAINED TO WITHIN 1/8"±.
5. CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE ARCHITECT IN WRITING OF ANY DISCREPANCIES IN 
THE DRAWINGS - EITHER APPARENT OR NOT -OR BEAR THE COST OF REPAIRING 
WORK NOT COMPLETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTENT OF THE DRAWINGS.
6. THE CONTRACTOR AND SUBCONTRACTORS SHALL VERIFY THE LAYOUT AND EXACT 
LOCATION OF ALL PARTITIONS, DOORS, ELECTRICAL/TELEPHONE AND 
COMMUNICATION OUTLETS, LIGHT FIXTURES AND SWITCHES WITH ARCHITECT IN THE 
FIELD BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH CONSTRUCTION.
7. GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO PROVIDE TWO REPRODUCIBLE COMPOSITE 
SETS OF "AS-BUILT" DRAWINGS FOR HVAC, ELEC., FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY, SPRINKLER, 
AND PLUMBING WORK.  ONE COMPILED SET SHOULD BE SUBMITTED TO ARCHITECT, 
ONE SET TO THE CLIENT'S AGENT.
8. ALL EXISTING ITEMS INDICATED TO REMAIN/REUSE SHALL BE BROUGHT UP TO LIKE 
NEW WORKING ORDER AND APPEARANCE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO: CLEAN 
LIGHT FIXTURE LENSES, EXIT SIGNS, WALL/CEILING DEVICES, WINDOW COVERINGS, 
ETC.
9. PATCH OR REPAIR ALL EXISTING CONSTRUCTION TO “LIKE NEW”  CONDITION. 
PREPARE FOR NEW FINISHES AS SCHEDULED.
X
X
PROJECT TEAM
ARCHITECT:
HUNTSMAN ARCHITECTURAL GROUP 
50 CALIFORNIA STREET, SEVENTH FLOOR
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94111 
PHONE: 415.394.1212 
CONTACT: LAWRENCE SMITH, AIA
OWNER:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
1961 PACIFIC BLVD.
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
PHONE: 650.522.7361
CONTACT: STEVE WU
ENGINEER:
AMIT WADHAWA & ASSOCIATES
870 MARKET STREET, SUITE 846
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94102 
FAX: 415.617.0076 
PHONE: 415.788.9999
CONTACT: AMIT WADHAWA, P.E.
VICINITY MAP
PROJECT LOCATION
NORTH
NOT TO SCALE
CODE INFORMATION
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODES
2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE
2019 NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION 72 - FIRE ALARMS
2019 NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION 13 - SPRINKLERS
CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE CODE TITLE 24, SECTION T-20, LATEST EDITION, HAS BEEN 
REVIEWED.  THE DESIGN SUBMITTED FOR THE BUILDING PERMIT SUBSTANTIALLY 
CONFORMS TO THESE REGULATIONS.
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL SCOPE OF WORK SHALL BE DONE IN COMPLIANCE WITH 
2019 TITLE 24, SECTION 6, CALIFORNIA ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS FOR 
NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
EXECUTE WORK IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY AND ALL APPLICABLE CODES, 
MANUFACTURERS' RECOMMENDATIONS, AND TRADE AND REFERENCE STANDARDS, 
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO: CALIFORNIA BUILDING, MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, 
PLUMBING AND FIRE CODES AND LOCAL AMENDMENTS WHERE APPLICABLE, NEC, NPC, 
NFPA, ASME, ANSI, AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT, AND OTHER APPLICABLE 
REGULATORY AUTHORITY'S LATEST ENFORCED EDITIONS.
PROJECT DATA
BUILDING ADDRESS:
330 W. 20TH AVE. 
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
PARCEL ID:
0390235103
ZONING:
E1-1
CURRENT USE:
B-OFFICE / ASSEMBLY
PROPOSED USE:
B-OFFICE / ASSEMBLY 
BUILDING CLASSIFICATION: TYPE V-B
NUMBER OF STORIES:
1
CONSTRUCTION DATE:
UNKNOWN
OCCUPANCY:
B (OFFICE)
A3 ASSEMBLY
BUILDING AREA:
37,297 SF = BUILDING TOTAL
B OCCUPANCY OFFICE BUILDING AREA = 32,222 SF
- ALLOWABLE AREA = 36,000 SF
- B OCCUPANCY OFFICE BUILDING IS FULLY SPRINKLERED.
- EXISTING AREA SEPARATION BETWEEN B AND A-3 
  OCCUPANCY. 
A-3 OCCUPANCY COUNCIL CHAMBERS = 5,075 SF
- ALLOWABLE AREA = 6,000 SF
- A-3 OCCUPANCY COUNCIL CHAMBERS IS NOT FULLY 
  SPRINKLERED.
- EXISTING AREA SEPARATION BETWEEN B AND A-3 
  OCCUPANCY.
PROJECT AREA:
374 SF
FIRE SPRINKLERING:
NOT FULLY SPRINKLERED
FIRE RATING OF BUILDING COMPONENTS:
STRUCTURAL FRAME
NON-RATED
INTERIOR PARTITIONS
NON-RATED
SHAFT ENCLOSURES
1 HR
ROOF
NON-RATED
FLOORS
NON-RATED
KEY PLAN
SCOPE OF WORK
NORTH
NOT TO SCALE
CREATED:
PLOTTED:
PROJECT:
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOM REMODEL
C:\REVIT\temp\15041-08-Staff RR Remodel_CEN_R20_mdr.rvt
10/6/2020 3:30:46 PM
A-000
COVER SHEET
10/02/09
15041.08
SAN MATEO CITY HALL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
ISSUE FOR REVIEW 08.20.2020
95% CD'S 09.24.2020
PLAN CHECK RESPONSE 10.07.20
ARCHITECTURAL
A-000
COVER SHEET
√
√
√
A-020
SPECIFICATIONS
√
√
√
A-021
SPECIFICATIONS
√
√
√
A-022
SPECIFICATIONS
√
√
√
A-410
STAFF RESTROOM PLANS
√
√
√
A-800
ELEVATIONS AND DETAILS
√
√
√
A-900
MISC DETAILS
√
√
√
A-920
CEILING DETAILS
√
√
√
ELECTRICAL
E1.1
ELECTRICAL LEGEND AND DRAWING INDEX
√
√
E2.1
RESTROOM LIGHTING, POWER AND SIGNAL
PLANS
√
√
ET.1
TITLE 24 FORMS
√
√
ET.2
TITLE 24 FORMS
√
√
MECHANICAL
M-001
GENERAL NOTES, LEGENDS, SCHEDULES,
DETAIL, AND DRAWINGS INDEX
√
√
M-002
MECHANICAL SPECIFICATIONS AND DETAILS
√
√
M-201
1ST FLOOR - MECHANICAL DEMOLITION & FLOOR
PLAN AND DETAILS
√
√
M-301
MECHANICAL TITLE 24
√
M-302
MECHANICAL TITLE 24
√
PLUMBING
P-001
1ST FLOOR - PLUMBING GENERAL NOTES,
LEGEND, ABBREVIATIONS, AND DRAWING INDEX
√
√
P-101
1ST FLOOR - PLUMBING RISER DIAGRAMS AND
SCHEDULES
√
√
PD-101
1ST FLOOR - PLUMBING DEMOLITION PLAN
√
√
P-201
1ST FLOOR - PLUMBING FLOOR PLAN
√
√
TOTAL NO. OF SHEETS: 21
SHEET INDEX
PLUMBING CALCULATION
08.20.20
ISSUE FOR REVIEW
09.24.20
95% CD'S
1
10.07.20
PLAN CHECK RESPONSE
1
197 of 250

--- page 198 ---
PART 1: GENERAL CONDITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION ADMINISTRATION
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION AND PROCEDURES ARE TO BE APPLIED BY THE 
CONTRACTOR IN THE EXECUTION OF THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE CONSTRUCTION 
DOCUMENTS:
1.01  SUMMARY OF THE WORK AND OVERALL QUALITY
A. THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS CONSIST OF THE OWNER-CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT, 
DRAWINGS, THESE SPECIFICATIONS, ADDENDA, CLARIFICATIONS, OR CONTRACT 
MODIFICATIONS.
B. ALL WORK TO BE PERFORMED SHALL BE DONE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL 
APPLICABLE LOCAL, STATE, AND NATIONAL CODES AND STANDARDS.
C. ALL WORK SHALL CONFORM TO ALL INDUSTRY AND MANUFACTURER'S PUBLISHED 
STANDARDS AND THE BUILDING OWNER'S REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALITY OF 
MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP, ALONG WITH ALL REQUIREMENTS SET FORTH IN 
THESE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
D. ANY CONFLICTING REQUIREMENTS INHERENT IN BOTH THE PROCEDURES AND THE 
WORK DESCRIBED SHALL BE BROUGHT TO THE ARCHITECT'S ATTENTION IN WRITING 
PRIOR TO PROCEEDING WITH THE WORK.
E. WHERE CONFLICTS OCCUR BETWEEN SPECIFICATIONS AND DRAWINGS, THE 
DRAWINGS SHALL GOVERN.
F. IF THESE DOCUMENTS OR JOB CONDITIONS MAKE IT IMPOSSIBLE TO PRODUCE FIRST-
CLASS WORK OR TO WARRANTY THE WORK OR ITS PERFORMANCE, OR SHOULD 
DISCREPANCIES OCCUR AMONG THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, THE CONTRACTOR 
WILL REQUEST INFORMATION, INTERPRETATION OR CLARIFICATION FROM THE 
ARCHITECT IN WRITING PRIOR TO BEGINNING CONSTRUCTION. IF THE CONTRACTOR 
FAILS TO MAKE SUCH REQUEST, WORK MUST BE PERFORMED IN A SATISFACTORY 
MANNER AND NO REQUEST FOR ADDED COST OR EXTENSION OF TIME WILL BE 
CONSIDERED.
G. THE CONTRACTOR WILL PROVIDE WARRANTY TO THE WORK FOR A MINIMUM OF ONE 
YEAR AFTER THE DATE OF SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION, OR LONGER IF SPECIFICALLY 
REQUIRED BY THE OWNER-CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT.
1.02  CONTRACT METHOD AND BID/PROPOSAL REQUIREMENTS
A. UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED, THE WORK IS TO BE PERFORMED PER THE GENERAL 
AND SUPPLEMENTAL CONDITIONS OF THE CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION (THE 
MOST CURRENT EDITION OF AIA DOCUMENT A201 AND SUPPLEMENTARY 
CONDITIONS). IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY BOTH OWNER AND ARCHITECT IN WRITING WHEN 
DISCREPANCIES OCCUR BETWEEN THE OWNER-CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT AND THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
B. UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED, THE CONTRACTOR IS TO OBTAIN AND PAY FOR ALL 
REQUIRED PERMITS.
C. IMMEDIATELY UPON RECEIPT OF AGENCY APPROVALS, GENERAL CONTRACTOR 
SHALL ELECTRONICALLY SCAN THE APPROVED PERMIT DOCUMENTS, INCLUDING BUT 
NOT LIMITED TO STAMPED APPROVED DRAWING SETS, PERMIT APPLICATION, JOB 
CARDS, AND OTHER DOCUMENTATION SPECIFICALLY REQUESTED BY ARCHITECT.  
ELECTRONIC SCANS SHALL BE IN PDF FORMAT AND SUBMITTED TO ARCHITECT  & 
OWNER PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF THE WORK.
D. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM THE WORK IN ACCORDANCE WITH CONTRACT 
SUM AND TIME SCHEDULE ESTABLISHED AND AGREED UPON WITH THE ARCHITECT 
AND OWNER.
E. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL COMPLY WITH ANY SPECIAL BID PROCEDURES, FORMS OR 
OTHER CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS SET FORTH BY THE ARCHITECT OR OWNER NOT 
SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSED IN THE DRAWINGS OR SPECIFICATIONS
F. BY SUBMITTING THE CONTRACT PROPOSAL, THE CONTRACTOR ACKNOWLEDGES 
SATISFACTORY KNOWLEDGE AND AWARENESS OF:
1. THE NATURE AND LOCATION OF THE WORK
2. THE GENERAL AND LOCAL CONDITIONS, PARTICULARLY THOSE BEARING UPON 
AVAILABILITY OF TRANSPORTATION, ACCESS TO THE SITE, DISPOSAL, HANDLING 
AND STORAGE OF THE MATERIALS, AVAILABILITY OF LABOR, WATER, POWER, AND 
UNCERTAINTIES OF WEATHER, OR SIMILAR PHYSICAL CONDITIONS AT THE SITE
3. THE CHARACTER OF EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES NEEDED PRELIMINARY TO AND 
DURING WORK
4. ALL OTHER MATTERS THAT CAN IN ANY WAY AFFECT THE WORK OR THE COST 
THEREOF UNDER THIS CONTRACT.
G. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL FAMILIARIZE HIMSELF AND COMPLY WITH ALL BUILDING 
RULES, REGULATIONS AND SPECIFICATIONS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO 
ACCESS HOURS, LOADING DOCK AND FREIGHT ELEVATOR ACCESS, NOISE 
RESTRICTIONS, HANDLING OF EQUIPMENT, MATERIALS AND DEBRIS, AND OTHER 
ITEMS THAT MAY IMPACT SCHEDULE OR COST. ALL SUCH FACTORS SHALL BE 
INCLUDED IN ALL BIDS AND PRICING.
H. IF CONFLICTING REQUIREMENTS BETWEEN THE ITEMS OF THE CONTRACT 
DOCUMENTS OCCUR, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ESTIMATE THE MOST COSTLY WAY OF 
DOING WORK UNLESS WRITTEN CLARIFICATION HAS BEEN GIVEN BY THE ARCHITECT 
BEFORE SUBMISSION OF THE CONTRACTOR'S PROPOSAL.
I. BY SUBMITTING CONTRACT BID OR PRICING, THE CONTRACTOR REPRESENTS THAT 
HE FULLY UNDERSTANDS THE NATURE AND EXTENT OF THE WORK, ALL FACTORS 
AND CONDITIONS AFFECTING IT, CHARACTERISTICS OF ITS VARIOUS PARTS AND 
ELEMENTS AND THEIR FITTING TOGETHER AND FUNCTIONING.
1.03  ALTERNATES
A. BID ALTERNATES, IF THEY OCCUR, ARE AS INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS. THE COST 
OR CREDIT FOR EACH ALTERNATE IS THE NET ADDITION TO, OR DEDUCTION FROM, 
THE CONTRACT SUM TO INCORPORATE ALL WORK ASSOCIATED WITH THE 
ALTERNATE INTO THE WORK. AFTER SUBMISSION OF PRICING FOR THE ALTERNATE, 
NO OTHER ADJUSTMENTS ARE MADE TO THE CONTRACT SUM IN ASSOCIATION WITH 
THE ALTERNATE.
B. INCLUDE AS A PART OF EACH ALTERNATE, MISCELLANEOUS DEVICES, ACCESSORY 
OBJECTS, AND SIMILAR ITEMS INCIDENTAL TO OR REQUIRED FOR A COMPLETE 
INSTALLATION WHETHER OR NOT MENTIONED AS A PART OF THE ALTERNATE. 
INCLUDE ALL WORK WITH ALL TRADES INVOLVED.
1.04  UNIT PRICING
A. IF REQUIRED AS A PART OF THE BID/PRICING PROCESS, PROVIDE UNIT PRICING FOR 
THE MATERIALS AND/OR ASSEMBLIES PER THE DRAWINGS.
1.05  SUBSTITUTIONS
A. REQUESTS FOR A CHANGE IN A MATERIAL AND/OR METHOD SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO 
THE ARCHITECT FOR REVIEW IN WRITING PRIOR TO SUBMITTING BID OR CONTRACT 
PRICING.
B. AFTER THE BID DATE, SUBSTITUTIONS WILL BE CONSIDERED ONLY WHEN A PRODUCT 
BECOMES UNAVAILABLE DUE TO NO FAULT OF THE CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR TO 
TAKE SPECIAL CARE IN IDENTIFYING LEAD TIMES FOR ALL ITEMS VIA THE SUBMITTAL 
PROCEDURES IDENTIFIED IN THESE SPECIFICATIONS, SUCH THAT THE CONTRACT 
TIME IS NOT AFFECTED, COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXPEDITING MATERIALS DUE TO 
FAULTY PRE-ORDERING OR SCHEDULING SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S 
RESPONSIBILITY.
C. PROVIDE DOCUMENTATION, FOR REVIEW BY THE ARCHITECT, THAT THE QUALITY, 
CHARACTERISTICS, PROPERTIES OF THE PROPOSED SUBSTITUTION IS EQUIVALENT 
TO THE ORIGINALLY-SPECIFIED ITEM FOR WHICH IT WILL SUBSTITUTE. SUBMIT COST 
DATA OF BOTH THE ORIGINALLY-SPECIFIED PRODUCT AND THE SUBSTITUTION 
(INCLUDING LABOR) FOR REVIEW BY ARCHITECT AND CLIENT.
D. REQUEST FOR SUBSTITUTION CONSTITUTES A REPRESENTATION THAT THE 
CONTRACTOR:
A. HAS INVESTIGATED PROPOSED PRODUCT AND DETERMINED THAT IT MEETS OR 
EXCEEDS, IN ALL RESPECTS, THE SPECIFIED PRODUCT.
B. WILL PROVIDE THE SAME WARRANTY VALUE
C. WILL COORDINATE INSTALLATION AND MAKE ALL CHANGES WHICH MAY BE 
REQUIRED FOR WORK TO BE COMPLETE IN ALL RESPECTS.
D. PRESENTS COMPLETE COST DATA INCLUDING ALL RELATED COSTS UNDER THE 
CONTRACT, AND WAIVES CLAIMS FOR ADDITIONAL COSTS WHICH MAY 
SUBSEQUENTLY BECOME APPARENT.
E. APPROVED SUBSTITUTIONS MAY, BECAUSE OF DIFFERENT SIZE, WEIGHT, 
CONFIGURATION, OR OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, REQUIRE MODIFICATIONS TO OTHER 
ELEMENTS OF THE WORK. IF SUCH SUBSTITUTIONS ARE USED, SHOW SUCH 
MODIFICATIONS ON SUBMITTALS AND MAKE REQUIRED MODIFICATIONS AT NO 
ADDITIONAL COST.
1.06  ALLOWANCES
A. BID ALLOWANCES FOR CERTAIN ITEMS UNDEFINED AT THE TIME OF BIDDING ARE AS 
INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS.
B. AS ALLOWANCE ITEMS ARE IDENTIFIED BY THE ARCHITECT AS THE WORK 
PROGRESSES, PROVIDE CONTRACT PRICING AND SUBMIT VERIFICATION THAT ITEMS 
CONFORM TO ORIGINAL ALLOWANCE AMOUNT. NOTIFY ARCHITECT OF ANY 
DISCREPANCIES.
1.07  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
A. BY SUBMITTING THE CONTRACT PROPOSAL, THE CONTRACTOR ACKNOWLEDGES 
SATISFACTORY KNOWLEDGE AND AWARENESS OF:
1. THE NATURE AND LOCATION OF THE WORK
2. THE GENERAL AND LOCAL CONDITIONS, PARTICULARLY THOSE BEARING UPON 
AVAILABILITY OF TRANSPORTATION, ACCESS TO THE SITE, DISPOSAL, HANDLING 
AND STORAGE OF THE MATERIALS, AVAILABILITY OF LABOR, WATER, POWER, AND 
UNCERTAINTIES OF WEATHER, OR SIMILAR PHYSICAL CONDITIONS AT THE SITE
3. THE CHARACTER OF EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES NEEDED PRELIMINARY TO AND 
DURING WORK
4. ALL OTHER MATTERS THAT CAN IN ANY WAY AFFECT THE WORK OR THE COST 
THEREOF UNDER THIS CONTRACT.
B. CONTRACTOR SHALL COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE LAWS, REGULATIONS, 
ORDINANCES AND RULES RELATING TO HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS, INCLUDING 
WITHOUT LIMITATION ASBESTOS, PCBs AND UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS.  IF 
CONTRACTOR DISCOVERS ANY SUCH MATERIALS ON THE PROPERTY, CONTRACTOR 
SHALL PROMPTLY NOTIFY THE BUILDING OWNER'S AGENT IN WRITING AND SHALL TAKE 
ALL APPROPRIATE SAFETY PRECAUTIONS IN PERFORMING THE WORK. CONFER WITH 
OWNER REGARDING CONTINUANCE OF WORK.
1.08  WORK COVERED BY THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
A. THE INTENT OF THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS IS TO INCLUDE ALL ITEMS NECESSARY 
FOR THE PROPER EXECUTION AND COMPLETION OF THE WORK BY THE CONTRACTOR. 
ALL SYSTEMS, INCLUDING MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, AND PLUMBING ARE TO BE 
COMPLETE AND FUNCTIONAL TO PROVIDE THE INTENDED OR SPECIFIED 
PERFORMANCE. THE INFORMATION IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS IS INTENDED TO 
INCLUDE OR IMPLY ALL ITEMS REQUIRED FOR THE FULL, PROPER EXECUTION AND 
COMPLETION OF THE WORK.
B. PERFORMANCE BY THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE REQUIRED TO THE EXTENT 
CONSISTENT WITH THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, REASONABLY INFERABLE FROM THEM 
AND REASONABLY FORESEEABLE, USING THE MEANS, METHODS AND PROCEDURES 
NECESSARY TO PRODUCE THE INTENDED RESULTS. IN THE EVENT OF QUESTION OR 
AMBIGUITY, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL REQUEST CLARIFICATION FROM THE ARCHITECT 
PER RFI PROCEDURES STATED HEREIN.
C. WORK NOT DETAILED, NOTED OR SPECIFIED, SHALL BE THE SAME AS PARTS THAT ARE 
DETAILED, NOTED OR SPECIFIED.
D. DRAWINGS AND DIAGRAMS FOR MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING AND LIFE-
SAFETY WORK SHALL BE CONSIDERED AS DIAGRAMMATIC ONLY, NOT TO BE USED FOR 
ANY STRUCTURAL GUIDANCE OR PHYSICAL LAYOUT. IN CASE OF CONFLICT, AND 
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, THE ARCHITECT'S DRAWINGS SHOWING LOCATIONS FOR 
MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING  AND LIFE-SAFETY ITEMS SUCH AS SPRINKLER 
HEADS, SUPPLY, RETURN OR EXHAUST GRILLES, ELECTRICAL FIXTURES, AND SIMILAR 
ITEMS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE.
E. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL WORK, EQUIPMENT, CASEWORK, MECHANICAL, 
ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING AND SIMILAR DEVICES OF WHATEVER NATURE, WILL BE 
COMPLETELY INSTALLED, HOOKED-UP, MADE OPERATIONAL AND MADE FUNCTIONAL 
FOR THE PURPOSE SUCH AS INTENDED, AND THAT ALL COSTS THEREFORE BE 
INCLUDED IN THE CONTRACTOR'S PROPOSAL.  COMPLY WITH THE MANUFACTURER'S 
INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS WHEN MORE EXPLICIT OR STRINGENT THAN SHOWN ON 
THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
F. NO WORK DEFECTIVE IN CONSTRUCTION OR QUALITY, OR DEFICIENT IN ANY 
REQUIREMENTS OF THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTABLE DESPITE 
HUNTSMAN ARCHITECTURAL GROUP'S FAILURE TO DISCOVER OR POINT OUT DEFECTS 
OR DEFICIENCIES DURING CONSTRUCTION.  DEFECTIVE WORK REVEALED WITHIN THE 
TIME REQUIRED BY GUARANTIES SHALL BE REPLACED BY WORK CONFORMING WITH 
THE INTENT OF THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.  NO PAYMENT, EITHER PARTIAL OR FINAL, 
SHALL BE CONSTRUED AS ACCEPTANCE OF DEFECTIVE WORK OR IMPROPER 
MATERIALS.
1.09 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
A. OWNER-FURNISHED, OWNER-INSTALLED (OFOI) WORK:
1. THE OWNER MAY FURNISH CERTAIN ITEMS IF LISTED ON DRAWINGS.
2. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL:
a. BE RESPONSIBLE FOR COORDINATING HIS/HER WORK TO ACCOMMODATE LISTED 
ITEMS FOR PHYSICAL SPACE FIT, UTILITY CONNECTIONS AND ROUGH-IN, POWER 
WIRING, AND PROVISION FOR HVAC LOADS ASSOCIATED WITH COOLING.
b. NOTIFY OWNER IN WRITING OF THE CRITICAL DATES BY WHICH NECESSARY 
INFORMATION, DELIVERY OR INSTALLATION IS REQUIRED FOR ALL WORK 
ASSOCIATED WITH THE SCHEDULED INSTALLATIONOF SUCH ITEMS.
B. OWNER-FURNISHED, CONTRACTOR-INSTALLED (OFCI) WORK:
1. THE OWNER SHALL FURNISH AND DELIVER CERTAIN ITEMS TO THE PROJECT SITE 
AS LISTED ON THE DRAWINGS. THE OWNER SHALL:
a. ARRANGE AND PAY FOR PRODUCT DELIVERY TO PROJECT SITE.
b. SUBMIT CLAIMS FOR TRANSPORTATION DAMAGE.
c. ARRANGE FOR THE REPLACEMENT OF DAMAGED, DEFECTIVE OR MISSING ITEMS.
d. ARRANGE FOR WARRANTIES, INSPECTIONS AND SERVICE.
2. THE CONTRACTOR WILL:
a. REVIEW OWNER'S SHOP DRAWINGS, PRODUCT DATA AND SAMPLES FOR 
COORDINATION PURPOSES.
b. RECEIVE AND UNLOAD PRODUCTS AT PROJECT SITE, INSPECT FOR 
COMPLETENESS, FOR DAMAGE, AND NOTIFY OWNER OF ANY DISCREPANCIES.
c. HANDLE, STORE, INSTALL AND FINISH PRODUCTS.
d. REPAIR OR REPLACE ITEMS DAMAGED BY HIS OPERATIONS.
e. NOTIFY OWNER IN WRITING THE CRITICAL DATES BY WHICH NECESSARY 
INFORMATION, DELIVERY OR INSTALLATION IS REQUIRED FOR ALL WORK 
ASSOCIATED WITH THE SCHEDULED INSTALLATION OF SUCH ITEMS.
1.10 OCCUPANCY OF THE PROJECT SITE
A. THE OWNER AND HIS SEPARATE CONTRACTORS WILL BE AFFORDED ACCESS TO 
SPACES IN THE BUILDING IN ORDER TO INSTALL FURNITURE, FIXTURES, EQUIPMENT OR 
OTHER WORK PROVIDED THOSE AREAS ARE READY TO RECEIVE SUCH ITEMS. THESE 
ITEMS ARE TO BE NOTED AND ACCOMMODATED IN THE CONTRACTOR'S SCHEDULE. 
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL COOPERATE WITH SUCH INSTALLERS OR CONTRACTORS TO 
THE FULLEST EXTENT POSSIBLE WITHOUT DELAYING THE OVERALL COMPLETION 
SCHEDULE.
B. TEMPORARY POWER AND LIGHTING SHALL BE MADE AVAILABLE TO SEPARATE 
CONTRACTORS IN THE SAME MANNER AS REQUIRED FOR SUBCONTRACTORS.
C. ALL WORK SHALL BE SCHEDULED AND PERFORMED SO AS NOT TO DISTURB OR CAUSE 
DAMAGE TO ANY TENANT IN THE BUILDING. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE 
RESPONSIBLE FOR SCHEDULING OF ACCESS INTO ADJACENT TENANT SPACES WITH 
THE OWNER AS REQUIRED FOR PRICING AND CONSTRUCTION WORK FIGURED ON AN 
OVERTIME BASIS.
D. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ALLOW UNRESTRICTED ACCESS OF THE JOBSITE TO THE 
ARCHITECT AND PROJECT CONSULTANTS DURING NORMAL JOBSITE HOURS.
1.11  CONTRACTOR COORDINATION
AS A PART OF THE WORK, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL:
A. IDENTIFY LEAD TIMES FOR ALL ITEMS AND ENSURE THAT THEY ARE ORDERED AND 
DELIVERED TO THE SITE IN A TIMELY FASHION FOR INCORPORATION INTO THE WORK.
B. COORDINATE ALL NEW WORK WITH ALL EXISTING CONDITIONS AND ANY OTHER 
CONTRACTORS AT THE PROJECT SITE.
C. VERIFY CHARACTERISTICS OF ELEMENTS OF INTERRELATED OPERATING EQUIPMENT 
ARE COMPATIBLE; COORDINATE WORK HAVING INTERDEPENDENT RESPONSIBILITIES 
FOR INSTALLING, CONNECTING TO, AND PLACING IN SERVICE, SUCH EQUIPMENT.
D. KEEP A CURRENT SCHEDULE INCLUDING ALL WORK ASSOCIATED WITH THE 
CONTRACT, ITS SEQUENCING, KEY MILESTONES, DATES REQUIRED FOR ORDERING OF 
LONG-LEAD ITEMS, AND ANY OTHER DATE REQUIRING MONITORING AS IT RELATES TO 
THE PROJECT DELIVERY DATES.
E. SCHEDULE ALL WORK REQUIRING BUILDING ACCESS OR DISRUPTION OF ADJACENT 
SPACES WITH OWNER OR BUILDING MANAGEMENT.
F. COORDINATE SPACE REQUIREMENTS AND INSTALLATION OF MECHANICAL,  
ELECTRICAL AND PLUMBING WORK THAT IS INDICATED DIAGRAMMATICALLY ON THE 
DRAWINGS. FOLLOW ROUTING SHOWN FOR PIPES, DUCTS, AND CONDUITS AS 
CLOSELY PRACTICABLE; MAKE RUNS PARALLEL AND PERPENDICULAR TO LINES OF 
BUILDING. UTILIZE SPACES EFFICIENTLY TO MAXIMIZE ACCESSIBILITY FOR OTHER 
INSTALLATIONS, FOR MAINTENANCE, AND FOR REPAIRS.
G. ARRANGE ALL ABOVE-CEILING ITEMS IN SUCH A WAY AS TO ACHIEVE CEILING HEIGHTS 
INDICATED; NOTIFY ARCHITECT PROMPTLY OF ANY CONFLICTS.
H. IN FINISHED AREAS OR UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, CONCEAL PIPES, DUCTS AND 
WIRING IN THE CONSTRUCTION.
I. COORDINATE LOCATIONS OF FIXTURES AND OUTLETS WITH FINISH ELEMENTS, SUCH 
AS AT CUSTOM CASEWORK LOCATIONS.
J. VERIFY THAT NO CONFLICTS EXIST IN LOCATIONS OF ANY AND ALL MECHANICAL, 
TELEPHONE, ELECTRICAL, LIGHTING, PLUMBING, AND SPRINKLER EQUIPMENT (TO 
INCLUDE ALL PIPING, DUCTWORK, AND CONDUIT) AND THAT ALL REQUIRED 
CLEARANCES FOR INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE ARE PROVIDED.  CONTRACTOR 
TO NOTIFY ARCHITECT AND BUILDING MANAGER IN WRITING IF CONFLICTS EXIST.
K. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR DISTRIBUTION OF DRAWINGS TO ALL 
TRADES UNDER HIS/HER JURISDICTION.
1.12  CONTRACTOR USE OF PROJECT SITE
AS A PART OF THE WORK, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL:
A. SCHEDULE USE OF PREMISES FOR WORK AND COORDINATE CONSTRUCTION 
OPERATIONS WITH APPLICABLE LAWS, ORDINANCES, PERMITS, BUILDING RULES AND 
REGULATIONS AND THE CONTRACT.
B. BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE USE OF THE BUILDING THROUGH COORDINATION WITH 
BUILDING MANAGEMENT FOR USE OF ALL/ANY TEMPORARY FACILITIES, BUILDING 
SERVICES (INCLUDING ALL COSTS), LOADING DOCK USE, ELEVATOR USE, TRASH 
REMOVAL, HOISTING, SCHEDULING, USE OF RESTROOMS, AND ANY OTHER ITEMS 
RESTRICTED BY BUILDING MANAGEMENT.
C. AT ALL TIMES BE RESPONSIBLE FOR JOB SITE SAFETY PROCEDURES AND PROTOCOLS 
AND PERFORM ALL WORK WITH DUE REGARD TO LIFE AND SAFETY.
D. ASSUME FULL RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE PROTECTION OF PRODUCTS, EQUIPMENT AND 
MATERIALS STORED ON THE PROJECT SITE AND OF THE EXISTING CONDITIONS.
E. SCHEDULE USE OF PREMISES FOR WORK AND COORDINATE OPERATIONS TO ALLOW 
FOR OWNER OCCUPANCY, WORK BY OTHER CONTRACTORS, AND USE OF PREMISES 
BY THE TENANT, ITS EMPLOYEES AND OTHER TENANTS AS REQUIRED BY OWNER.
F. IF NECESSARY, OBTAIN AND PAY FOR THE USE OF ADDITIONAL STORAGE AND OR 
WORK AREAS NEEDED FOR OPERATIONS.
G. BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE COORDINATION, LOCATION (INCLUDING DUMPSTERS) AND 
ULTIMATE REMOVAL OF SITE WASTE MATERIALS. COMPLY WITH LOCAL ORDINANCES 
REGARDING RECYCLING REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION 
DEBRIS. WASTE MATERIALS AND TRASH SHALL NOT BE LEFT TO ACCUMULATE. 
PROJECT SITE SHALL BE BROOM-CLEAN AT THE END OF EACH WORKING DAY. 
PREVENT DUST AND DEBRIS FROM LEAVING CONSTRUCTION AREA. ALL MATERIALS 
SHALL BE STACKED OR PILED IN AN ORDERLY FASHION OUT OF TRAFFIC PATTERNS. 
SHOULD THE CONTRACTOR NOT FULFILL HIS RESPONSIBILITY, THE OWNER RESERVES 
THE RIGHT TO HIRE TRASH REMOVAL AT THE CONTRACTOR'S EXPENSE.
H. AT ALL TIMES PROTECT THE PROPERTY OF THE BUILDING OWNER, INCLUDING BUT NOT 
LIMITED TO ANY FINISHES AND FIXTURES, EQUIPMENT, CONVEYANCE SYSTEMS, AND 
BUILDING INFRASTRUCTURE.
2.0  APPLICATIONS FOR PAYMENT
A. AT BEGINNING OF WORK, SUBMIT A SCHEDULE OF VALUES, PROVIDING AT LEAST ONE 
LINE ITEM FOR EACH SPECIFICATION SECTION AND ENOUGH DETAILED BREAKDOWN 
OF THE CONTRACT SUM TO FACILITATE CONTINUED EVALUATION OF THE 
APPLICATIONS FOR PAYMENT. UPDATE SCHEDULE OF VALUES AS REQUIRED TO 
INCORPORATE CHANGE ORDER REVISIONS TO THE CONTRACT.
B. SUBMIT EACH APPLICATION ON AIA G702-APPLICATION AND CERTIFICATION FOR 
PAYMENT FORM WITH AIA-G703-CONTINUATION SHEET FORM OR EQUIVALENT 
ARCHITECT-APPROVED COMPUTER-GENERATED FORMS AS REVIEWED AND AGREED 
UPON WITH ARCHITECT.
C. COORDINATE THE SCHEDULE FOR THE APPLICATIONS AS LISTED IN THE CONTRACT 
FOR CONSTRUCTION WITH THE OVERALL PROJECT SCHEDULE. INDICATE AS 
MILESTONES ON THE SCHEDULE.
D. EXECUTE CERTIFICATION BY SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICER OF THE COMPANY.
E. WITH EACH APPLICATION FOR PAYMENT, SUBMIT CONDITIONAL AND PARTIAL LIEN 
RELEASES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION PERIOD COVERED BY THE PREVIOUS 
APPLICATION.
F. WHEN ARCHITECT REQUIRES SUBSTANTIATING INFORMATION, SUBMIT DATA 
JUSTIFYING LINE ITEM AMOUNTS IN QUESTION.
3.0  CONTRACT MODIFICATION PROCEDURES
3.01  REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION (RFI)
A. THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR CHECKING CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, FIELD 
CONDITIONS AND DIMENSIONS BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH CONSTRUCTION.  IF THERE 
ARE ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING THESE, OR OTHER COORDINATION QUESTIONS, THE 
CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT THEM TO THE ARCHITECT IN WRITING.  THE CONTRACTOR 
IS RESPONSIBLE FOR OBTAINING CLARIFICATION FROM THE ARCHITECT IN WRITING 
BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH WORK IN QUESTION OR RELATED WORK. ANY 
DISCREPANCIES IN DRAWINGS SHALL BE BROUGHT TO THE ARCHITECT'S ATTENTION IN 
WRITING IMMEDIATELY.
B. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, CLARIFICATIONS, OR SOLUTIONS TO PROBLEMS ARE TO BE 
PROVIDED BY THE ARCHITECT IN A WRITTEN RESPONSE TO A "REQUEST FOR 
INFORMATION" ISSUED BY THE CONTRACTOR. CONTRACTOR TO MAINTAIN AND 
REGULARLY ISSUE CURRENT RFI LOGS INDICATING STATUS OF EACH ITEM.
C. CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT PROPOSED SOLUTION TO ISSUES PRESENTED IN RFI.
D. RFIs GENERATED BY SUBCONTRACTORS WILL BE REVIEWED AND, IF POSSIBLE, 
ANSWERED DIRECTLY BY THE CONTRACTOR. A CONTRACTOR'S RFI SHALL BE 
SUBMITTED IN THE CONTRACTOR'S SEPARATE FORMAT SHOULD REVIEW BY 
ARCHITECT BE REQUIRED. RFIs ARE TO BE NUMBERED CONSECUTIVELY.
E. SOLUTIONS DESCRIBED IN AN RFI SHALL NOT BE PERFORMED UNTIL COST AND/OR 
SCHEDULE IMPACTS ARE QUANTIFIED BY THE CONTRACTOR. COST AND/OR SCHEDULE 
IMPACTS ASSOCIATED WITH AN RFI RESPONSE ARE TO BE ISSUED AS A BULLETIN OR 
AS A CONTRACTOR-INITIATED CHANGE ORDER PROPOSAL. DO NOT PROCEED WITH 
WORK UNTIL SUCH PROPOSAL HAS BEEN ACCEPTED BY THE CLIENT.
F. WHEN RFIs ARE GENERATED AND RESPONDED TO DURING THE TIME THAT THE 
CONTRACTOR'S BID PROPOSAL IS BEING PREPARED, WORK ASSOCIATED WITH THE 
RESPONSE SHALL BE INCLUDED IN SUCH PROPOSAL.
G. WHEN RFIs ARE GENERATED AFTER THE OWNER HAS RECEIVED THE CONTRACTOR'S 
PROPOSAL, WORK ASSOCIATED WITH THE RESPONSE SHALL BE SUBJECT TO A 
REVISION TO THE CONTRACT AS APPROPRIATE.
H. THE ARCHITECT'S REVIEW PERIOD FOR AN RFI IS TO BE WITHIN A REASONABLE TIME 
FRAME AGREED UPON BY THE OWNER, ARCHITECT AND CONTRACTOR.
3.02  ARCHITECT'S SUPPLEMENTAL INSTRUCTIONS
THE ARCHITECT WILL ISSUE SUPPLEMENTAL INSTRUCTIONS AUTHORIZING MINOR 
CHANGES IN THE WORK NOT INVOLVING ADJUSTMENT TO THE CONTRACT SUM OR 
CONTRACT TIME ON THE ARCHITECT'S CLARIFICATION FORM.
3.03  BULLETINS
A BULLETIN IS A CLIENT OR ARCHITECT-INITIATED CHANGE:
A. THE ARCHITECT WILL ISSUE A DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CHANGES IN 
THE WORK AS A BULLETIN THAT WILL INVOLVE A CHANGE IN CONTRACT SUM OR 
CONTRACT TIME.
B. WITHIN A REASONABLE TIME FRAME AGREED UPON BY THE CLIENT, ARCHITECT AND 
CONTRACTOR, THE CONTRACTOR WILL SUBMIT A DETAILED ESTIMATE OF COST AND 
TIME RELATED TO THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE BULLETIN WITH APPROPRIATE 
ACCOMPANYING INFORMATION.
C. WHEN REQUIRED BY THE SCHEDULE, THE BULLETIN WILL BE ISSUED BY THE 
ARCHITECT AND APPROVED BY THE CLIENT AS A DIRECTIVE FOR THE WORK TO BE 
PERFORMED, WITH FINAL COSTS TO BE DETERMINED AFTER THE WORK HAS 
COMMENCED. MAINTAIN DETAILED RECORDS ON A TIME AND MATERIALS BASIS OF THE 
WORK REQUIRED; SUBMIT AS BACK UP.
3.04  CHANGE ORDERS (CO)
A. UPON THE ARCHITECT'S RECOMMENDATION AND OWNER'S APPROVAL OF THE ITEM OF 
CHANGE, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL ISSUE A CHANGE ORDER USING AIA FORM G701 OR 
THE CONTRACTOR'S ARCHITECT-APPROVED EQUIVALENT FOR SIGNATURE OF PARTIES 
AS PROVIDED FOR IN THE CONTRACT FOR CONSTRUCTION.
B. PROMPTLY REVISE THE SCHEDULE OF VALUES AND APPLICATION FOR PAYMENT 
FORMS TO RECORD EACH AUTHORIZED CHANGE ORDER AS A SEPARATE LINE ITEM 
AND ADJUST THE CONTRACT SUM AS SHOWN ON THE CHANGE ORDER.
C. PROMPTLY REVISE PROJECT SCHEDULE TO REFLECT ANY CHANGES IN CONTRACT 
TIME.
D. PROMPTLY ENTER CHANGES IN PROJECT DOCUMENTS.
E. WHEN LATENT OR UNFORESEEN CONDITIONS REQUIRE MODIFICATION TO THE 
CONTRACT, THE CONTRACTOR MAY PROPOSE CHANGES BY SUBMITTING A CHANGE 
ORDER PROPOSAL TO THE ARCHITECT. INCLUDE A DETAILED ESTIMATE OF COST AND 
TIME RELATED TO THE PROPOSED WORK.
F. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT PROCEED WITH ANY WORK REQUIRING ADDITIONAL 
COMPENSATION BEYOND THE CONTRACT AMOUNT WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION IN 
WRITING FROM THE ARCHITECT OR OWNER'S AGENT.  FAILURE TO OBTAIN 
AUTHORIZATION SHALL INVALIDATE ANY CLAIM FOR ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION.
4.0  REFERENCE STANDARDS
A. FOR PRODUCTS SPECIFIED BY ASSOCIATION OR TRADE STANDARDS, COMPLY WITH 
REQUIREMENTS OF THE STANDARD, EXCEPT WHEN MORE STRICT REQUIREMENTS ARE 
SPECIFIED OR ARE REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE CODES.
B. THE APPLICABLE DATE OF THE STANDARD IS THAT IN EFFECT AS OF THE BID DATE, OR 
DATE OF OWNER-CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT WHEN THERE ARE NO BIDS, EXCEPT 
WHEN A SPECIFIC BID IS SPECIFIED.
C. OBTAIN COPIES OF STANDARDS WHEN REQUIRED BY CONTRACT DOCUMENTS. 
MAINTAIN COPY AT PROJECT SITE DURING PROGRESS OF THE SPECIFIC WORK.
5.0  DEFINITIONS
A. "SIMILAR" OR "SIM." MEANS COMPARABLE CHARACTERISTICS FOR THE CONDITIONS 
NOTED. VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND ORIENTATION ON THE PLANS AND ELEVATIONS.
B. "ALIGN" MEANS TO ACCURATELY LOCATE FINISH FACES OF ITEMS NOTED IN THE SAME 
PLANE.
C. "TYPICAL" OR "TYP." MEANS FOR ALL SIMILAR CONDITIONS, UNLESS OTHERWISE 
NOTED.
D. "FURNISH" MEANS TO SUPPLY AND DELIVER TO THE PROJECT SITE, READY FOR 
UNLOADING, UNPACKING, ASSEMBLY, INSTALLATION, AND SIMILAR OPERATIONS.
E. "INSTALL" DESCRIBES OPERATIONS AT THE PROJECT SITE INCLUDING ACTUAL 
UNLOADING, TEMPORARY STORAGE, UNPACKING, ASSEMBLING, ERECTING, PLACING, 
ANCHORING, APPLYING, WORKING TO DIMENSION, FINISHING, CURING, PROTECTING, 
CLEANING, AND SIMILAR OPERATIONS.
F. "PROVIDE" MEANS TO FURNISH AND INSTALL, COMPLETE AND READY FOR THE 
INTENDED USE.
G. "PROJECT SITE" IS THE SPACE AVAILABLE TO THE CONTRACTOR FOR PERFORMING 
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES, EITHER EXCLUSIVELY OR IN CONJUNCTION WITH OTHERS 
PERFORMING WORK AS PART OF THE PROJECT.
H. "TESTING AGENCIES" ARE INDEPENDENT ENTITIES ENGAGED TO PERFORM SPECIFIC 
INSPECTIONS OR TESTS AND ISSUE REPORTS ASSOCIATED WITH THOSE INSPECTIONS 
OR TESTS.
6.0 REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL:
A. VERIFY APPLICABLE CODES AND REGULATIONS; BECOME COMPLETELY FAMILIAR WITH 
AND COMPLY WITH THEIR REQUIREMENTS.
B. ARRANGE FOR ALL REQUIRED REGULATORY INSPECTIONS AND APPROVALS.
C. COORDINATE ANY ITEMS REQUIRING SPECIAL INSPECTIONS WITH THE ARCHITECT, 
CLIENT, AND / OR CERTIFIED TESTING AGENCY (AS APPLICABLE).
D. OBTAIN TEMPORARY AND FINAL CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY AS REQUIRED BY 
LOCAL AUTHORITIES.
7.0 PROJECT MEETINGS
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM THE FOLLOWING RESPONSIBILITIES UNLESS 
OTHERWISE DIRECTED BY THE OWNER OR ARCHITECT:
A. HOLD A PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR CLARIFICATION OF PROJECT 
RESPONSIBILITIES, INFORMATION, AND ADMINISTRATIVE ISSUES:
1. LISTS OF SUBCONTRACTORS
2. CURRENT PROJECT SCHEDULE
3. CRITICAL WORK SEQUENCING (INCLUDING ORDERING OF LONG LEAD TIME ITEMS 
AND DELIVERIES)
4. RESPONSIBLE PERSONNEL AND CONTACTS
5. CONTRACT MODIFICATION PROCEDURES
6. PROCEDURES FOR MAINTAINING PROJECT RECORD DOCUMENTS
7. USE OF PROJECT SITE
8. EXISTING CONDITIONS
9. PROCEDURES FOR APPLICATION FOR PAYMENT
10. DISTRIBUTION OF RFI AND SUBMITTALS
11. REVIEW OF OTHER SPEC REQUIREMENTS
B. DURING CONSTRUCTION, SCHEDULE, PREPARE AGENDA FOR, AND RUN WEEKLY 
PROJECT MEETINGS TO REVIEW WORK PROGRESS AND TO EXCHANGE INFORMATION 
THAT AIDS THE FLOW OF WORK. REVIEW RFIs, NEW ISSUES, SUBMITTALS, CHANGE 
ORDERS AND UPDATED PROJECT SCHEDULES AND BUDGET.
C. RECORD AND DISTRIBUTE MEETING MINUTES WITHIN THREE DAYS OF DATE OF 
MEETING.
D. ATTENDANCE: AS APPROPRIATE TO AGENDA TOPICS.
8.0 SUBMITTALS
PROJECT SUBMITTALS TO THE ARCHITECT BY THE CONTRACTOR ARE REQUIRED IN 
ORDER TO DEMONSTRATE UNDERSTANDING OF THE WORK DOCUMENTED AND 
REQUIRED. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ENSURING THEY ARE CLEAR, CONCISE 
AND REPRESENTATIVE OF SUCH UNDERSTANDING.  CONTRACTOR SHALL:
A. REVIEW THE SUBMITTALS AND, IF THEY ARE FOUND TO BE PROPER, APPROVE THEM 
BEFORE SUBMITTING TO THE ARCHITECT.
B. TRANSMIT EACH ITEM WITH APPROPRIATE PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, 
SUBCONTRACTOR AND MAJOR SUPPLIER NOTED. NUMBER ITEM PREFIXED WITH 
APPROPRIATE SPECIFICATION SECTION.
C. SUBMIT INITIAL CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULES (BAR CHART FORMAT), PRODUCT LIST AND 
SCHEDULE OF VALUES IN DUPLICATE WITHIN 5 DAYS AFTER NOTICE TO PROCEED HAS 
BEEN GIVEN.  IDENTIFY ALL LONG LEAD TIME ITEMS ON SCHEDULE AND ASSOCIATED 
DATES THAT THEY WILL NEED TO BE ORDERED, GIVING ADEQUATE TIME ALLOWANCES 
FOR THE SUBMITTAL PROCESS TO OCCUR.  AFTER REVIEW BY ARCHITECT, REVISE AND 
RESUBMIT AS REQUIRED. SUBMIT REVISED SCHEDULES WITH EACH APPLICATION FOR 
PAYMENT REFLECTING CHANGES SINCE PREVIOUS SUBMITTAL.
D. COORDINATE SUBMITTAL TRANSMITTAL, REVIEW AND DISTRIBUTION TO AVOID DELAY 
OF WORK.
E. WHEN REQUIRED IN INDIVIDUAL SPECIFICATION SECTIONS, SUBMIT:
1. SHOP DRAWINGS: IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT.
2. PRODUCT DATA: IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT.  INCLUDE INFORMATION ON MATERIALS, 
DIMENSIONS, HARDWARE AND PREPARATION, FIRE-RESISTIVE INFORMATION AND 
OTHER INFORMATION NECESSARY TO EVALUATE COMPLIANCE WITH THE INTENT OF 
THE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.
3. SAMPLES: FOUR SETS OF ITEMS AS REQUIRED IN THE INDIVIDUAL SECTIONS.
4. MANUFACTURER'S CERTIFICATES: WHERE STANDARD TESTS ARE SPECIFIED FOR 
PRODUCTS OR EQUIPMENT, WHICH TESTS ARE NOT TO BE DONE AT THE PROJECT 
SITE, FOLLOW PROCEDURES FOR PRODUCT DATA.
5. MOCK UPS: COMPLETE, FULL-SCALE MOCK UP OF ASSEMBLY AT PROJECT SITE TO 
ESTABLISH STANDARD OF QUALITY; AS REQUIRED IN THE INDIVIDUAL SECTIONS.
F. ARCHITECT SHALL REVIEW EACH SUBMITTAL AND RETURN IT WITHIN TEN WORKING 
DAYS OR ANOTHER MUTUALLY-AGREED UPON TIME FRAME, WITH  APPROPRIATE 
ACTION NOTED. ARCHITECT'S REVIEW IS FOR GENERAL CONFORMANCE ONLY AND 
DOES NOT RELIEVE THE CONTRACTOR FROM FULL COMPLIANCE WITH THE CONTRACT 
DOCUMENTS.
G. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL MAINTAIN AND REGULARLY ISSUE SUBMITTAL LOGS 
INDICATING STATUS OF EACH ITEM. CONTRACTOR TO COMMUNICATE RELATIVE 
PRIORITY OF RESPONSES NEEDED AT REGULAR CONSTRUCTION MEETINGS.
H. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT BE RELIEVED OF ANY CONTRACT RESPONSIBILITY 
RESULTING FROM HUNTSMAN ARCHITECTURAL GROUP'S FAILURE TO DETECT SHOP 
DRAWING ERRORS AND OMISSIONS IN CONFLICT WITH THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
9.0  QUALITY CONTROL
THE CONSTRACTOR SHALL:
A. MAINTAIN QUALITY CONTROL OVER SUPPLIERS, MANUFACTURERS, PRODUCTS, 
SERVICES, SITE CONDITIONS AND WORKMANSHIP TO PRODUCE WORK OF SPECIFIED 
QUALITY.
B. COMPLY WITH INDUSTRY STANDARDS EXCEPT WHEN MORE RESTRICTIVE 
TOLERANCES OR SPECIFIED REQUIREMENTS INDICATE MORE RIGID STANDARDS OR 
MORE PRECISE WORKMANSHIP.
C. SECURE PRODUCTS IN PLACE WITH POSITIVE ANCHORAGE DEVICES DESIGNED AND 
SIZED TO WITHSTAND STRESSES, VIBRATION AND RACKING. MEET OR EXCEED 
REQUIREMENTS SET FORTH BY STRUCTURAL ENGINEER AND/OR BUILDING CODES.
D. COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURER'S INSTRUCTIONS IN FULL DETAIL, INCLUDING EACH 
STEP IN SEQUENCE. SHOULD INSTRUCTIONS CONFLICT WITH CONTRACT DOCUMENTS, 
REQUEST CLARIFICATION FROM ARCHITECT IN WRITING BEFORE PROCEEDING.
E. MANUFACTURER'S FIELD SERVICES: IF SPECIFIED IN INDIVIDUAL SPECIFICATION 
SECTIONS, REQUIRE SUPPLIER OR MANUFACTURER TO PROVIDE QUALIFIED 
PERSONNEL TO OBSERVE FIELD CONDITIONS, CONDITIONS OF SURFACES AND 
INSTALLATION, QUALITY OF WORKMANSHIP, START UP OF EQUIPMENT, TEST, ADJUST 
AND BALANCE OF EQUIPMENT AS APPLICABLE, AND TO MAKE APPROPRIATE 
RECOMMENDATIONS. SUBMIT WRITTEN REPORT FOR REVIEW.
10.0  MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT
A. PRODUCTS INCLUDING MATERIAL, EQUIPMENT AND SYSTEMS SHALL COMPLY WITH 
PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS AND REFERENCED STANDARDS AS MINIMUM 
REQUIREMENTS.
B. COMPONENTS TO BE SUPPLIED WITHIN A SPECIFICATION SECTION SHALL BE THE 
SAME, AND SHALL BE INTERCHANGEABLE.
C. ALL PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS ARE TO BE NEW; DO NOT REUSE MATERIALS AND 
EQUIPMENT FROM EXISTING SPACE, EXCEPT AS SPECIFICALLY REQUIRED OR 
ALLOWED BY THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS.
D. PROMPTLY INSPECT SHIPMENTS TO ASSURE THAT PRODUCTS COMPLY WITH THE 
REQUIREMENTS, THAT QUANTITIES ARE CORRECT, AND PRODUCTS ARE UNDAMAGED.
E. STORE PRODUCTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH MANUFACTURER'S INSTRUCTIONS.
F. PRODUCTS ARE SPECIFIED IN THE PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS OR ELSEWHERE IN THE 
DRAWINGS OR PROJECT DOCUMENTS BY:
1. REFERENCE STANDARD BY DESCRIPTION ONLY - SELECT ANY PRODUCT MEETING 
THOSE STANDARDS.
2. NAMING ONE OR MORE MANUFACTURERS WITH A PROVISION FOR SUBSTITUTIONS -
SUBMIT A REQUEST FOR SUBSTITUTION FOR A MANUFACTURER NOT SPECIFICALLY 
IDENTIFIED IN THE SPECIFICATION.
3. NAMING SEVERAL MANUFACTURERS - PRODUCTS OF NAMED MANUFACTURERS 
MEETING SPECIFICATIONS ONLY. NO OPTIONS, NO SUBSTITUTIONS ALLOWED.
4. NAMING ONLY ONE MANUFACTURER - NO OPTIONS OR SUBSTITUTIONS ALLOWED.
5. CONTRACTOR'S OPTION - CHOICE OF PRODUCTS OF NAMED MANUFACTURERS BY 
CONTRACTOR. NO CHANGE IN CONTRACT SUM OR CONTRACT TIME ALLOWED.
6. SUBSTITUTION - PER SUBSTITUTION PROCESS.
11.0 CONTRACT CLOSEOUT
A. COMPLY WITH THE PROCEDURES STATED IN THE OWNER-CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT 
FOR ISSUANCE OF THE CERTIFICATE OF SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION, INCLUDING 
PREPARATION OF FINAL PUNCH LISTS.
B. WHEN CONTRACTOR CONSIDERS WORK HAS REACHED FINAL COMPLETION, NOTIFY 
THE ARCHITECT IN WRITING THAT THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS HAVE BEEN REVIEWED, 
THE WORK HAS BEEN INSPECTED, AND THE WORK IS COMPLETE IN ACCORDANCE WITH 
THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS AND READY FOR FINAL REVIEW FOR COMPLETION.
C. UPON COMPLETION OF THE WORK, OR SHORTLY BEFORE, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL 
PREPARE AND SUBMIT TO THE ARCHITECT A COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF ITEMS TO BE 
COMPLETED OR CORRECTED (PUNCH LIST).
D. IN ADDITION TO THE SUBMITTALS REQUIRED BY THE CONTRACT, PROVIDE SUBMITTALS 
REQUIRED BY GOVERNING AUTHORITIES, AND SUBMIT A FINAL STATEMENT OF 
ACCOUNTING GIVING TOTAL ADJUSTED CONTRACT SUM, PREVIOUS PAYMENTS, AND 
SUM REMAINING DUE.
E. CONTRACTOR WILL ISSUE A FINAL CHANGE ORDER REFLECTING APPROVED 
ADJUSTMENTS TO CONTRACT SUM NOT PREVIOUSLY MADE BY CHANGE ORDER.
F. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM FINAL CLEANING PRIOR TO FINAL REVIEW.
G. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL FURNISH AS-BUILT RECORD DOCUMENTS AND PRODUCT 
INFORMATION AND OPERATION MANUALS IN PDF FORMAT TO ARCHITECT AND OWNER.  
IN ADDITION, CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE THE OWNER WITH THREE BOUND SETS OF 
PRODUCT INFORMATION FOR ALL MATERIALS, FINISHES, EQUIPMENT, AND FIXTURES 
INCLUDING ALL WARRANTY INFORMATION, MAINTENANCE PROCEDURES, AS WELL AS 
PRODUCT DATA AND OPERATION MANUALS PROVIDED BY EQUIPMENT 
MANUFACTURER.
H. SUBMIT  TO OWNER CONSENT OF SURETY TO FINAL PAYMENT AND EVIDENCE OF FINAL 
CONTINUING INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR A PERIOD OF A MINIMUM OF ONE YEAR 
BEYOND DATE OF FINAL COMPLETION (OR GREATER IF REQUIRED BY OWNER -
ARCHITECT AGREEMENT). ARRANGE FOR SYSTEMS DEMONSTRATION AND 
INSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS OPERATION, ADJUSTMENT AND MAINTENANCE AS 
APPLICABLE TO OWNER'S DESIGNATED PERSONNEL.
I. ARCHITECT AND CLIENT TO REVIEW FOR FINAL COMPLETION AND PROCESS FINAL 
APPLICATION FOR PAYMENT IF ACCEPTABLE.
12.0 PROJECT CLOSEOUT AND RECORD DOCUMENTS
PRIOR TO FINAL REVIEW OF WORK AND SUBMISSION OF FINAL APPLICATION FOR 
PAYMENT, SUBMIT THE FOLLOWING:
A. CONTRACT DOCUMENTS (IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT) LABELED AS "PROJECT RECORD".
1. ARCHITECT TO FURNISH TO CONTRACTOR ELECTRONIC BACKGROUNDS OF 
DRAWINGS FOR PREPARATION OF RECORD DOCUMENTS.
2. CLEARLY NOTE ALL ADDENDA, CHANGE ORDERS AND OTHER CONTRACT 
MODIFICATIONS ON RECORD COPIES
3. SUBMIT TO ARCHITECT IN ELECTRONIC FORMAT WITH TWO FULL-SIZE HARD COPIES.
B. SUBMITTALS: SUBMIT TO OWNER ONE SET (NOTEBOOK-STYLE).
C. SUPPLIERS/SUBCONTRACTOR'S LIST: PROVIDE A LIST OF ALL SUPPLIERS AND 
SUBCONTRACTORS INVOLVED WITH THE WORK.
D. WARRANTIES AND BONDS: PROVIDE DUPLICATE, NOTARIZED COPIES OF ALL 
WARRANTIES AND BONDS (NOTEBOOK-STYLE).
E. OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE DATA & MANUALS: SUBMIT THREE SETS (NOTEBOOK 
STYLE) PRIOR TO FINAL REVIEW OF WORK.
1. ALL FINISHES
2. ALL APPLIANCES
3. MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT AND CONTROLS - DIVISION 15
4. ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT AND CONTROLS - DIVISION 16
5. OTHER PRODUCTS OR EQUIPMENT REQUIRING ONGOING MAINTENANCE.
F. PERMITS, INSPECTIONS, AND FIELD TEST REPORTS: ONE SET
G. MAINTENANCE MATERIAL: PROVIDE PRODUCTS, SPARE PARTS, AND MAINTENANCE 
MATERIALS IN QUANTITIES SPECIFIED IN EACH SECTION, IN ADDITION TO THAT USED 
FOR CONSTRUCTION OF WORK. COORDINATE WITH OWNER, DELIVER TO PROJECT 
SITE, STORE WHERE DESIGNATED, AND OBTAIN RECEIPT. SUBMIT MAINTENANCE 
STANDARDS SCHEDULED.
H. LOCKS AND KEYING: PROVIDE CHANGE OVER TO PERMANENT LOCKS AND DELIVER 
PERMANENT KEYS TO OWNER PER BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
CREATED:
PLOTTED:
PROJECT:
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOM REMODEL
C:\REVIT\temp\15041-08-Staff RR Remodel_CEN_R20_mdr.rvt
10/6/2020 3:30:47 PM
A-020
SPECIFICATIONS
10/02/09
15041.08
SAN MATEO CITY HALL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
08.20.20
ISSUE FOR REVIEW
09.24.20
95% CD'S
1
10.07.20
PLAN CHECK RESPONSE
198 of 250

--- page 199 ---
PART 2: PROJECT SITE PROCEDURES
IN ADDITION TO PART 1, THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION AND PROCEDURES ARE TO BE 
APPLIED BY THE CONTRACTOR AT THE PROJECT SITE IN THE EXECUTION OF THE WORK 
DESCRIBED IN THE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS:
1.0  SITE REVIEW/PROJECT CONDITIONS
A. THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR AND EACH TRADE IS RESPONSIBLE FOR REVIEWING AND 
COORDINATING ALL NEW WORK WITH ALL EXISTING CONDITIONS AND WITH ALL 
OTHER TRADES.
B. NO MODIFICATIONS TO THE CONTRACT WILL BE ISSUED FOR:
1. CONDITIONS OR CONFLICTS THAT COULD HAVE BEEN ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE 
BIDDER DURING THE BID FIELD INSPECTION.
2. CONDITIONS OR CONFLICTS THAT COULD HAVE BEEN RESOLVED OR 
COORDINATED BY THE CONTRACTOR AND EACH TRADE AFTER THE AWARD OF THE 
CONTRACT.
2.0  CONSTRUCTION FACILITIES/TEMPORARY CONTROLS
A. PROVIDE TELEPHONE, FAX AND EMAIL SERVICES FOR COMMUNICATIONS WITH 
PROJECT TEAM.
B. PROVIDE TEMPORARY ELECTRICAL SERVICE REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION 
OPERATIONS, WITH BRANCH WIRING AND DISTRIBUTION BOXES LOCATED TO ALLOW 
SERVICE AND LIGHTING BY MEANS OF CONSTRUCTION-TYPE POWER CORDS.
C. PERMANENT LIGHTING MAY BE USED DURING CONSTRUCTION; PROVIDE TEMPORARY 
LIGHTING IF NECESSARY.
D. PROVIDE TEMPORARY HVAC AS REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN REQUIRED CONDITIONS FOR 
CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS, AND TO PROTECT MATERIALS AND FINISHES FROM 
DAMAGE DUE TO TEMPERATURE OR HUMIDITY.
E. PRIOR TO OPERATION OF PERMANENT HVAC FACILITIES FOR TEMPORARY PURPOSES, 
VERIFY THAT INSTALLATION IS APPROVED FOR OPERATION, AND THAT FILTERS ARE 
IN PLACE. PROVIDE AND PAY FOR OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, UTILITIES, AND 
REPLACEMENT PARTS PRIOR TO SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION.
F. PROVIDE VENTILATION OF ENCLOSED AREAS TO CURE MATERIALS, DISPERSE 
HUMIDITY, AND PREVENT ACCUMULATIONS OF DUST, FUMES AND VAPORS.
G. MAINTAIN EXISTING SANITARY FACILITIES AND ENCLOSURES. CONTRACTOR SHALL 
PROVIDE PROTECTION TO ALL EXISTING FINISHES IN THE RESTROOMS. THE 
CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR REPAIRING ANY DAMAGE CAUSED 
THEREIN DURING CONSTRUCTION, AS DIRECTED BY THE ARCHITECT. IF BUILDING 
MANAGEMENT REQUIRES, PROVIDE TEMPORARY SANITARY FACILITIES.
H. COMPLY FULLY WITH REQUIREMENTS OF LOCAL FIRE DEPARTMENT AND INSURANCE 
AUTHORITIES. PROVIDE TEMPORARY FIRE PROTECTION REQUIRED DURING 
CONSTRUCTION.
I. MAINTAIN APPROVED FIRE EXTINGUISHERS THROUGHOUT CONSTRUCTION AREA PER 
LOCAL CODE REQUIREMENTS.
J. STORE VOLATILE LIQUIDS OUTSIDE CONSTRUCTION AREA IN WELL-VENTILATED 
AREAS PER LOCAL CODE REQUIREMENTS.
K. PROVIDE TEMPORARY BARRICADES AND PROCEDURES AS REQUIRED TO PREVENT 
PUBLIC ENTRY TO CONSTRUCTION AREAS, TO PROVIDE FOR OWNER'S ACCESS TO 
THE SITE, AND TO PROTECT EXISTING FACILITIES AND ADJACENT PROPERTIES FROM 
CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS.
L. PROVIDE TEMPORARY WEATHER-TIGHT CLOSURES OF OPENINGS IN EXTERIOR 
SURFACES TO PROVIDE ACCEPTABLE WORKING CONDITIONS AND PROTECTION FOR 
MATERIALS, TO ALLOW FOR TEMPORARY HEATING, AND TO PREVENT ENTRY OF 
UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS. PROVIDE DOORS WITH SELF-CLOSING HARDWARE AND 
LOCKS.
M. PROVIDE TEMPORARY PROTECTION FOR INSTALLED PRODUCTS. CONTROL TRAFFIC 
IN IMMEDIATE AREA TO MINIMIZE DAMAGE. ALL ENTRIES TO BE SECURED AND 
LOCKED AT THE END OF EACH DAY. CONTRACTOR TO TAKE CARE TO NOT ALLOW 
UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY ON THE JOBSITE.
N. CONTROL ACCUMULATION OF WASTE MATERIALS AND RUBBISH; PERIODICALLY 
DISPOSE OF OFF-SITE. JOB SITE TO BE BROOM CLEANED AT THE END OF EACH DAY.
O. OFFICE (AS APPLIES): WEATHER-TIGHT, WITH LIGHTING, ELECTRICAL OUTLETS, HVAC, 
AND FURNITURE. PROVIDE SPACE FOR PROJECT MEETINGS WITH SEATING TO 
ACCOMMODATE UP TO TEN PERSONS.
3.0  SELECTIVE DEMOLITION
A. THE SCOPE OF DEMOLITION IS DEFINED IN THE SPECIFICATIONS IN CONJUNCTION 
WITH THE DEMOLITION PLAN, WHICH INDICATES SPECIFIC COMPONENTS TO BE 
SALVAGED, PROTECTED, AND STORED. DRAWINGS REFLECT APPROXIMATE EXTENT 
OF EXISTING TENANT CONSTRUCTION EITHER TO REMAIN OR BE DEMOLISHED. 
CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR TOURING ALL LEVELS OF THE EXISTING SPACE 
TO DETERMINE EXISTING CONDITIONS.
B. CONTRACTOR TO MAKE APPROPRIATE INVESTIGATION OF ELEMENTS BEING 
REMOVED BEFORE ACTUAL DEMOLITION. THE MEANS AND METHODS, ALONG WITH 
THE RESULTS, ARE THE SOLE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CONTRACTOR.
C. DURING DEMOLITION, ALL STRUCTURES, FURNISHINGS, FINISHES, ETC. WHICH ARE 
NOT TO BE REMOVED OR ARE TO BE SALVAGED SHOULD BE CAREFULLY PROTECTED 
FROM DAMAGE.  DAMAGE TO THE EXISTING ITEMS OR SURFACES THAT REMAIN 
SHALL BE REFINISHED, REPAIRED OR REPLACED TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE 
OWNER, BUILDING MANAGEMENT AND ARCHITECT AT NO ADDITIONAL COST.
D. DURING REMOVAL OF ITEMS INDICATED TO BE SALVAGED, PROTECTION AND CAUTION 
SHALL BE USED TO ELIMINATE THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE TO SUCH ITEMS. ALL 
ITEMS OF EXISTING EQUIPMENT, MATERIALS, FIXTURES, ETC. SHALL REMAIN THE 
PROPERTY OF THE OWNER.  ALL SALVAGED AND/OR REUSABLE ITEMS SALVAGED 
DURING DEMOLITION OPERATIONS SHALL BE REMOVED AND RETAINED FOR LATER 
REINSTALLATION.  ITEMS REVIEWED AND REJECTED BY THE OWNER OR ARCHITECT 
SHALL BE DISPOSED OF BY THE CONTRACTOR.
E. PROVIDE ALL DEMOLITION REQUIRED FOR REMOVAL OF SYSTEMS, MATERIALS AND 
EQUIPMENT MADE OBSOLETE BY THIS PROJECT AS INDICATED BY THE CONTRACT 
DOCUMENTS.
F. FIELD VERIFY ALL CONDITIONS AND DIMENSIONS AND NOTIFY ARCHITECT IN WRITING 
OF ANY DEVIATION BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH DEMOLITION.
G. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE THE MEANS AND METHODS TO MAINTAIN 
APPROPRIATE VENTILATION, LIGHTING AND SAFETY, ETC. THROUGHOUT THE 
DEMOLITION PROCESS. CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY/COORDINATE WITH BUILDING 
MANAGEMENT ALL MEANS AND METHODS.
H. ANY DEMOLITION OR REMOVAL INDICATED IS SHOWN IN GENERAL TO PROVIDE THE 
EXTENT OF DEMOLITION AND IS NOT TO BE CONSIDERED RECORD DRAWINGS OF 
EXISTING CONDITIONS.
I. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL SUBMIT A SCHEDULE OF METHODS AND OPERATIONS OF 
DEMOLITION FOR THE OWNER'S REVIEW FOR ALL DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL WORK. 
INCLUDE IN THE SCHEDULE THE COORDINATION REQUIRED WITH THE BUILDING 
MANAGEMENT, ALL TRADES FOR SHUTOFF, CAPPING OR REROUTING OF UTILITIES, 
THE CONSTRUCTION OF ANY TEMPORARY UTILITY LINES, AND PROTECTIVE 
MEASURES.
J. PRIOR TO DEMOLITION AND BEFORE SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED METHODS AND 
SEQUENCES OF OPERATIONS, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO OBTAIN 
FOR REFERENCE ANY EXISTING RECORD DRAWINGS AND TO CONDUCT ANY 
APPROPRIATE FIELD TESTING TO DETERMINE THE NATURE OF THE WORK TO BE 
REMOVED.
K. THE OWNER ASSUMES NO RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ACTUAL CONDITION OF 
STRUCTURES TO BE DEMOLISHED.  CONDITIONS EXISTING AT THE TIME OF 
INSPECTION FOR BIDDING PURPOSES WILL BE MAINTAINED BY THE OWNER INSOFAR 
AS FEASIBLE.  HOWEVER, VARIATIONS WITHIN THE STRUCTURE MAY OCCUR BY THE 
OWNER'S REMOVAL AND SALVAGE OPERATIONS PRIOR TO THE START OF 
DEMOLITION WORK.
L. SELECTIVE DEMOLITION DEFINITIONS:
1. REMOVE: REMOVE AND LEGALLY DISPOSE OF ITEMS EXCEPT THOSE INDICATED TO 
BE REINSTALLED, SALVAGED, OR TO REMAIN THE OWNER'S PROPERTY.
2. REMOVE AND SALVAGE: ITEMS TO REMAIN THE OWNER'S PROPERTY. REMOVE, 
CLEAN AND PACK OR CRATE ITEMS TO PROTECT AGAINST DAMAGE. IDENTIFY 
CONTENTS OF CONTAINER AND DELIVER TO OWNER'S DESIGNATED STORAGE 
LOCATION.
3. REMOVE AND REINSTALL/REMOVE AND RELOCATE: REMOVE ITEMS INDICATED; 
CLEAN, SERVICE, AND OTHERWISE PREPARE THEM FOR REUSE; STORE AND 
PROTECT AGAINST DAMAGE. REINSTALL ITEMS IN THE SAME LOCATIONS OR 
RELOCATE AS INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS.
4. EXISTING TO REMAIN:  PROTECT CONSTRUCTION INDICATED TO REMAIN AGAINST 
DAMAGE AND SOILING DURING SELECTIVE DEMOLITION. WHEN PERMITTED BY THE 
ARCHITECT, ITEMS MAY BE REMOVED TO A SUITABLE, PROTECTED STORAGE 
LOCATION DURING DEMOLITION AND THEN CLEANED AND REINSTALLED IN THEIR 
ORIGINAL LOCATIONS.
M. DEMOLISHED MATERIALS NOT SCHEDULED FOR SALVAGE OR REUSE ARE TO BE 
DISPOSED OF BY THE CONTRACTOR.
N. DEMOLISH AND REMOVE EXISTING CONSTRUCTION ONLY TO THE EXTENT REQUIRED 
BY NEW CONSTRUCTION. NEATLY CUT OPENINGS AND HOLES PLUMB, SQUARE AND 
TRUE TO DIMENSIONS REQUIRED. USE CUTTING METHODS LEAST LIKELY TO DAMAGE 
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION TO REMAIN.
O. DEMOLITION OPERATIONS ARE TO ACCOUNT FOR ANY CONTINUING OCCUPATION OF 
PORTIONS OF EXISTING BUILDING. PROVIDE NOT LESS THAN 72 HOURS NOTICE TO 
OWNER OF ACTIVITIES THAT WILL AFFECT OWNER'S OPERATIONS. MAINTAIN 
EXISTING UTILITIES INDICATED TO REMAIN IN SERVICE; PROTECT AGAINST DAMAGE.
P. IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE OWNER IF ANY MATERIALS SUSPECTED TO CONTAIN 
ASBESTOS, LEAD, OR OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ARE ENCOUNTERED: DO NOT 
DISTURB THE MATERIALS.
Q. WHEN UNANTICIPATED MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, OR STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS THAT 
CONFLICT WITH THE INTENDED LAYOUT ARE ENCOUNTERED, INVESTIGATE, MEASURE 
THE CONDITION AND SUBMIT DOCUMENTATION TO THE ARCHITECT FOR REVIEW.
R. SWEEP THE JOBSITE BROOM-CLEAN UPON COMPLETION OF DEMOLITION.
S. SUBMITTALS (SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY BUILDING MANAGEMENT):
1. PROPOSED DUST CONTROL MEASURES
2. PROPOSED NOISE CONTROL MEASURES
3. SCHEDULE OF SELECTIVE DEMOLITION ACTIVITIES INCLUDING START AND END 
TIMES AND DATES, INTERRUPTION OF UTILITY SERVICES, COORDINATION FOR 
SHUTOFF, CAPPING AND CONTINUATION OF UTILITY SERVICES.
4. LOCATIONS OF TEMPORARY PARTITIONS AND MAINTENANCE OF MEANS OF EGRESS 
AND LIFE SAFETY SYSTEMS.
5. INVENTORY OF ITEMS TO BE REMOVED AND SALVAGED.
6. RECORD DRAWINGS PER CONTRACT CLOSEOUT PROCEDURES.
4.0 CUTTING AND PATCHING
A. COORDINATE ALL CUTTING AND PATCHING ACTIVITIES WITH OWNER AND BUILDING 
MANAGEMENT PRIOR TO COMMENCING WORK.
B. DO NOT CUT AND PATCH STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS. WHERE CUTTING AND PATCHING 
INVOLVES ADDING REINFORCEMENT TO STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS, SUBMIT DETAILS AND 
ENGINEERING CALCULATIONS SHOWING INTEGRATION OF REINFORCEMENT WITH THE 
ORIGINAL STRUCTURE (IF NOT ALREADY INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS).
C. PROVIDE SHORING SUPPORTS TO ASSURE STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY OF 
SURROUNDINGS; PROTECT OTHER PORTIONS OF WORK FROM DAMAGE DURING 
CUTTING AND PATCHING PROCEDURES.
D. DO NOT CUT AND PATCH OPERATING ELEMENTS OR RELATED COMPONENTS IN A 
MANNER THAT WOULD RESULT IN REDUCING THEIR CAPACITY TO PERFORM AS 
INTENDED.
E. AVOID CUTTING EXISTING PIPE, CONDUIT OR DUCTWORK SERVING THE BUILDING BUT 
SCHEDULED TO BE REMOVED OR RELOCATED UNTIL PROVISIONS HAVE BEEN MADE TO 
BYPASS THEM.
F. EXECUTE CUTTING AND PATCHING WORK BY METHODS TO AVOID DAMAGE TO OTHER 
WORK, AND WHICH WILL PROVIDE PROPER SURFACES TO RECEIVE PATCHING AND 
FINISHING.
G. CUT RIGID MATERIALS USING MASONRY SAW OR CORE DRILL. PNEUMATIC TOOLS ARE 
NOT ALLOWED WITHOUT APPROVAL BY OWNER AND BUILDING MANAGEMENT. CUT IN 
ACCURATELY LOCATED, STRAIGHT LINES. WHERE EXISTING PIPING AND OTHER 
SIMILAR ITEMS ARE UNDER EXISTING SLABS, EXERCISE CARE TO PROTECT FROM 
DAMAGE.
H. AT ALTERED CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR CUT EDGES, REPLACE CONSTRUCTION AND FIT 
NEW TO EXISTING CONSTRUCTION AS REQUIRED TO MATCH EXISTING WORK. RESTORE 
CUTTING AND PATCHING WORK WITH MATERIALS IDENTICAL TO EXISTING MATERIALS. 
FOR CONTINUOUS SURFACES, REFINISH TO NEAREST BREAK IN SURFACES, CORNER, 
OR OTHER BREAK IN CONSTRUCTION FOR A NEAT, FINISHED APPEARANCE; FOR AN 
ASSEMBLY, REFINISH ENTIRE UNIT. USE MATERIALS WHOSE INSTALLED PERFORMANCE 
WILL EQUAL OR SURPASS THAT OF EXISTING MATERIALS.
I. FIT WORK AIRTIGHT TO PIPES, SLEEVES, DUCTS, CONDUIT, AND OTHER PENETRATIONS 
THROUGH SURFACES.
J. AT PENETRATIONS OF FIRE-RATED PARTITION, FLOOR OR CEILING CONSTRUCTION, 
COMPLETELY SEAL VOIDS WITH FIRE-RATED SAFING INSULATION MATERIAL THE FULL 
THICKNESS OF THE PENETRATED ELEMENT IN SUCH A MANNER AS TO MAINTAIN THE 
INTEGRITY OF THE FIRE-RATED ASSEMBLY.
K. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL PATCH AND REPAIR ALL FIRE-PROOFING DAMAGE INCURRED 
DURING DEMOLITION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION TO MAINTAIN INTEGRITY OF EXISTING 
FIRE RATING. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL SIMILARLY PATCH ANY EXISTING CONDITIONS 
OF FIREPROOFING THAT NEED PATCHING OR REPAIR IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE OR 
MAINTAIN THE CONSTRUCTION'S REQUIRED RATING.
L. CONTRACTOR SHALL FIREPROOF AS REQUIRED BY CODE ALL NEW PENETRATIONS 
GENERATED BY THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THESE DOCUMENTS.
5.0 CONSTRUCTION WASTE MANAGEMENT
A. COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS OF THE CALGREEN CODE OR LOCAL WASTE 
ORDINANCE, WHICHEVER IS STRICTER FOR CONSTRUCTION WASTE RECYCLING AND 
DISPOSAL. 
THE DESIGN-BUILD APPROACH TO BUILDING SYSTEMS FOR THE PROJECT WORK APPLIES 
ONLY AS DIRECTED BY THE ARCHITECT AND WHEN NO ENGINEERING IS PROVIDED 
OTHERWISE AS A PART OF THESE DOCUMENTS.
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING DESIGN-BUILD 
SERVICES FOR THE FOLLOWING BUILDING SYSTEMS AS IT RELATES TO THE SCOPE 
SHOWN IN THE DRAWINGS:
MECHANICAL (WHEN NO ENGINEERING IS PROVIDED)
ELECTRICAL (WHEN NO ENGINEERING IS PROVIDED)
PLUMBING (WHEN NO ENGINEERING IS PROVIDED)
LIFE-SAFETY
SPRINKLERING
B. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL REVIEW THE EXISTING CONDITIONS OF THESE BASE 
BUILDING SYSTEMS AND PROVIDE MODIFICATIONS AS REQUIRED FOR CODE-
COMPLIANT, FULLY FUNCTIONING SYSTEMS.
C. DESIGN / BUILD SUBCONTRACTOR SHALL REVIEW THE SCOPE OF WORK PROPOSED 
HEREUNDER AND SHALL REVIEW THE BUILDING'S SMOKE MANAGEMENT / CONTROL 
SYSTEM AND / OR FIRE LIFE-SAFETY SYSTEM REPORT(S). DESIGN / BUILD 
SUBCONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE A SYSTEMS DESIGN THAT IS COORDINATED WITH 
OTHER DISCIPLINES SO AS TO EITHER COMPLY WITH OR NOT TO ADVERSELY AFFECT 
THE DESIGN OR OPERATION OF ANY SMOKE MANAGEMENT / CONTROL SYSTEMS.
D. ALL NEW WORK, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, INCLUDING DEVICES, FIXTURES, 
EQUIPMENT, AND ALL OTHER ITEMS SHALL MATCH EXISTING WITHIN THE TENANT 
SPACE.
E. MECHANICAL DESIGN-BUILD SUBCONTRACTOR TO PREPARE:
1. HVAC DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS WITH HEATING AND COOLING, LOAD 
CALCULATIONS AND THERMOSTAT AND AIR DIFFUSER LOCATIONS, SPRINKLER 
LAYOUT PER CODE, AND ALL REQUIRED TITLE 24 CALCULATIONS, ALL AS REQUIRED 
BY CODE OR THE SCOPE OF WORK AS DESCRIBED BY THE DRAWINGS. SUBMIT TO 
ARCHITECT AND CLIENT'S AGENT FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL PRIOR TO SUBMITTAL 
FOR PERMIT AND CONSTRUCTION. PROVIDE AIR BALANCE REPORT TO ARCHITECT 
FOR REVIEW AT PROJECT COMPLETION.
2. (AS APPLIES) NECESSARY PLUMBING DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, INCLUDING 
BUT NOT LIMITED TO WATER, GAS, WASTE AND VENT, WATER SUPPLY 
CALCULATIONS.
3. MECHANICAL VENTILATION WILL BE PROVIDED CAPABLE OF SUPPLYING THE 
MINIMUM RATE OF OUTSIDE AIR REQUIRED PER MINUTE PER OCCUPANT AS SHOWN 
IN THE APPLICABLE MECHANICAL CODE.
F. ELECTRICAL DESIGN-BUILD SUBCONTRACTOR TO PREPARE:
1. NECESSARY ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, INCLUDING BUT NOT 
LIMITED TO LIGHT SWITCHING, LIGHTING AND LIGHTING LEVEL, WIRING AND 
CIRCUITING, SECURITY SYSTEMS, LIFE -SAFETY SYSTEM INCLUDING MONITORS, 
SMOKE DETECTORS, SPEAKERS AND STROBES, ELECTRICAL OUTLET WIRING AND 
CIRCUITING.
2. PANEL AND EQUIPMENT SCHEDULES
3. ALL REQUIRED TITLE 24 CALCULATIONS REQUIRED BY CODE OR THE SCOPE OF 
WORK AS DESCRIBED BY THE DRAWINGS.
4. SUBMIT TO ARCHITECT AND OWNER FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL PRIOR TO 
SUBMITTAL FOR PERMIT AND CONSTRUCTION; COORDINATE NEW PANEL AND 
OTHER EQUIPMENT LOCATIONS WITH ARCHITECT.
G. LIFE SAFETY AND SPRINKLERING DRAWINGS AND ASSOCIATED SPECIFICATIONS ARE 
TO BE PROVIDED BY THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR'S SEPARATE SUB-CONTRACTORS.
H. PROVIDE DRAWINGS TO ARCHITECT FOR REVIEW A MINIMUM OF FIVE WORKING DAYS 
PRIOR TO SUBMITTING FOR SEPARATE PERMITS. ARCHITECT'S REVIEW TO BE FOR 
GENERAL DESIGN INTENT ONLY.
I. IN THE EVENT THAT CONFLICTS BETWEEN DRAWINGS OCCUR, REFER TO THESE 
SPECIFICATIONS PART 1, SECTION 1.08(D) FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
1. ALL PRODUCTS SHOWN HEREIN ARE NOT NECESSARILY A PART OF THE PROJECT 
SCOPE. CONTRACTOR MAY DISREGARD INDIVIDUAL PROJECT SECTIONS SHOULD THE 
PRODUCTS NOT BE MENTIONED ELSEWHERE IN THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS. IN ALL 
CASES, THE PROVISIONS OF PART 1, SECTION 1.08 "WORK COVERED BY THE 
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS" STILL APPLIES.
2. ALL ITEMS NOT SPECIFICALLY LISTED WITHIN THESE SECTIONS ARE TO BE PROVIDED 
AS INDICATED ELSEWHERE IN THESE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS. WHERE 
SPECIFICATIONS CONFLICT WITH THE DRAWINGS, THE DRAWINGS SHALL GOVERN.
3. ALL ITEMS INDICATED EITHER IN THESE SECTIONS OR ELSEWHERE IN THE CONTRACT 
DOCUMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO THE GENERAL CONDITIONS LISTED IN PART 1 OF THESE 
SPECIFICATIONS.
THE FOLLOWING PRODUCTS, MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT DESCRIBED BELOW ARE TO BE 
USED BY THE CONTRACTOR TO PERFORM THE WORK DESCRIBED IN THE CONSTRUCTION 
DOCUMENTS. SECTIONS ARE NUMBERED USING STANDARD CSI FORMAT GUIDELINES.
DIVISION 3 - CONCRETE
036000: SPECIAL CONCRETE FINISHES
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES MECHANICALLY-PROCESSED SPECIAL CONCRETE FINISHES
APPLIED TO NEW OR EXISTING CONCRETE SURFACES AS INDICATED ON THE 
     DRAWINGS.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. SAMPLES OF EACH TYPE OF SPECIAL CONCRETE FINISH; ILLUSTRATE FULL RANGE 
OF COLOR AND TEXTURE RANGE EXPECTED.
B. FIELD SAMPLES (25 S.F. EACH) FOR ON-SITE REVIEW AT THE DIRECTION OF THE 
OWNER OR ARCHITECT.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE: COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURER'S  RECOMMENDATIONS. USE 
MATERIALS AND METHODS TO ENSURE PROPER BONDING TO EXISTING SURFACES 
    AS APPROPRIATE.
1.04 PRODUCTS:
A. GROUT-CLEANED FINISH ("DRYSACKING"): PROVIDE GROUT-CLEANED FINISH ON 
SURFACES INDICATED ON DRAWINGS.
1. COMBINE ONE PART PORTLAND CEMENT TO ONE AND ONE-HALF PARTS FINE 
SAND BY VOLUME, AND A 50:50 MIXTURE OF ACRYLIC OR STYRENE BUTADIENE-
BASED BONDING ADMIXTURE AND WATER TO FORM THE CONSISTENCY OF THICK 
PAINT. BLEND STANDARD PORTLAND CEMENT AND WHITE PORTLAND CEMENT IN 
AMOUNTS DETERMINED BY TRIAL PATCHES SO THAT FINAL COLOR OF DRY 
GROUT WILL MATCH ADJACENT SURFACES.
2. THOROUGHLY WET CONCRETE SURFACES, APPLY GROUT TO COAT SURFACES, 
AND FILL SMALL HOLES. REMOVE EXCESS GROUT BY SCRAPING AND RUBBING 
WITH CLEAN BURLAP. KEEP DAMP BY FOG SPRAY FOR AT LEAST 36 HOURS 
AFTER RUBBING.
B. CONCRETE SEALER: PROVIDE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING: PROSOCO, "CONSOLIDECK 
LS", "CONSOLIDECK LSGUARD", "CONSOLIDECK POLISHGUARD";  WESTCOAT, "SC-66", 
"SC-66" OR EQUAL.  NON-YELLOWING WATER-BASED SEALANT, CLEAR OR TINTED AS 
INDICATED ON DRAWINGS. APPLY PER MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS (SEE 
WWW.CHEMPROBE.COM OR WWW.SCOFIELD.COM).
C. FLOOR-LEVELING COMPOUND: MANUFACTURER: ARDEX, L.M.SCOFIELD, OR EQUAL. 
(USE SPECIFIC PRODUCT APPROPRIATE TO SITE CONDITIONS - SEE 
WWW.ARDEX.COM OR WWW.SCOFIELD.COM.) PROVIDE LEVELING WHEN FLOORS 
HAVE EXISTING SLOPES OF GREATER THAN ¼" PER 10 FEET, DIPS, HOLES, ETC. NOT 
ACCEPTABLE FOR FLOOR FINISH AS SCHEDULED. CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY SITE 
CONDITIONS AND MAKE PRODUCT RECOMMENDATION.
D. CONCRETE STAIN: MANUFACTURER: L.M.SCOFIELD "CHEMSTAIN" OR AS OTHERWISE 
INDICATED ON DRAWINGS. (SEE WWW.SCOFIELD.COM)
DIVISION 4 - MASONRY (NOT USED)
DIVISION 5 - METALS
055000: METAL FABRICATIONS
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES FABRICATIONS AS INDICATED ON DRAWINGS WITH ALL 
FASTENERS, ROUGH HARDWARE, BOLTS, PLATES, ANCHORS, HANGERS, DOWELS      
AND OTHER MISCELLANEOUS METAL ITEMS REQUIRED TO MEET THE INTENT 
     
OF THE WORK.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PROOF OF CURRENT AWS CERTIFICATION FOR INDIVIDUALS PERFORMING WORK.
B. SHOP DRAWINGS OF EACH METAL FABRICATION INDICATED ON DRAWINGS, 
INCLUDING ANCHORAGE AND ACCESSORY ITEMS.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE:
A. WELDING STANDARDS: COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE PROVISIONS OF AMERICAN 
WELDING SOCIETY (AWS) PUBLICATIONS, STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS AND LOCAL 
CODES. SEE WWW.AMWELD.ORG
B. NOTIFY ARCHITECT IN WRITING OF ANY DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN ARCHITECT'S 
AND ENGINEER'S DRAWINGS PRIOR TO START OF WORK. IN ANY CASE, THE MOST 
STRINGENT REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY.
C. COORDINATE SPECIAL INSPECTIONS IF REQUIRED BY CODE OR ENGINEER.
1.04 PRODUCTS:
A. GENERAL: FOR METAL SURFACES EXPOSED TO VIEW, DO NOT USE MATERIALS WITH 
EXPOSED PITTING, SEAM MARKS, ROLLER MARKS, ROLLED TRADE NAMES, OR 
ROUGHNESS.
B. STEEL PLATES, SHAPES AND BARS: ASTM A 36 (ASTM A 36M)
C. STEEL TUBING: COLD-FORMED STEEL TUBING - ASTM A 500; HOT-FORMED STEEL 
TUBING - ASTM A 501.
D. PAINT/SHOP PRIMER FOR FERROUS METAL: FAST-CURING, LEAD AND CHROMATE-
FREE PRIMER FOR GENERAL PURPOSE USE.  PROVIDE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING:  
BENJAMIN MOORE, "ULTRA SPEC HP ACRYLIC METAL PRIMER HP04"; SHERWIN 
WILLIAMS, "PRO INDUSTRIAL PRO-CRYL UNIVERSAL PRIMER"; CARBOLINE, 
"CARBOCOAT 115 VOC"
E. NON-FERROUS FINISH AS SPECIFIED.
F. FASTENERS: PROVIDE PLATED FASTENERS COMPLYING WITH ASTM B 633, CLASS 
FE/ZN 25 FOR ELECTRO DEPOSITED ZINC COATING.
G. USE MATERIALS TO PREVENT GALVANIC ACTION BETWEEN DISSIMILAR METALS.
DIVISION 6 - WOOD AND PLASTICS
061000: ROUGH CARPENTRY
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES WOOD FURRING, GROUNDS, BACKING AND BLOCKING.
1.02 SUBMITTALS: WOOD TREATMENT DATA FOR IMPREGNATED FIRE-RETARDANT-
TREATED WOOD PRODUCTS THAT CERTIFY THAT  TREATED MATERIALS 
COMPLY WITH THE SPECIFIED STANDARD. ALL MATERIALS TO BE FIRE-RETARDANT 
TREATED.
1.03 PRODUCTS:
A. LUMBER STANDARDS: PER DOC PS 20, AMERICAN SOFTWOOD LUMBER STANDARD 
AND APPLICABLE GRADING RULES OF INSPECTION AGENCIES CERTIFIED BY ALSC'S 
BOARD OF REVIEW.
B. FIRE-RETARDANT-TREATED MATERIALS: PER APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS OF AWPA 
C20 (LUMBER) AND AWPA C27 (PLYWOOD).
C. PLYWOOD BACKING PANELS: FOR MOUNTING ELECTRICAL OR TELEPHONE 
EQUIPMENT, PROVIDE FIRE-RETARDANT-TREATED PLYWOOD PANELS WITH GRADE  
C-D PLUGGED EXPOSURE, 3/4" THICKNESS. PAINT TO MATCH SCHEDULED ADJACENT 
WALL FINISH. FIRE-RETARDANT-TREATED STAMP TO REMAIN VISIBLE.
D. ALL INTERIOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS (HARDWOOD PLYWOOD (HWPW), 
PARTICLEBOARD (PB), AND MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD (MDF) SHALL CONTAIN NO 
ADDED FORMALDEHYDE (NAF), AS DETERMINED BY CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCE 
BOARD (CARB) AIR TOXICS CONTROL MEASURE FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PHASE II. 
PROVIDE ONE OF THE FOLLWOING: COLUMBIA FOREST PRODUCTS "PURBOND 
HARDWOOD PLYWOOD" 
E. STAINLESS STEEL FASTENERS AT EXTERIOR OR WET LOCATIONS.
064023: INTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL WOODWORK
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES SPECIAL-FABRICATED CASEWORK AS INDICATED ON THE
DRAWINGS.
1.02 SUBMITTALS: PER WOODWORK INSTITUTE (WI) REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROPRIATE
SEISMIC ZONE IN WHICH PROJECT OCCURS.
A. SHOP DRAWINGS.
B. PRODUCT DATA (HARDWARE)
C. SAMPLE(S) OF ALL FINISHES.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE:
A. COMPLY WITH WI CUSTOM GRADE REQUIREMENTS FOR OPAQUE FINISHES AND 
PREMIUM FOR TRANSPARENT FINISHES. FOR INSTALLATION AND DETAILING, 
COMPLY WITH WI REQUIREMENTS IN SEISMIC ZONES AND AS APPLICABLE PER 
LOCAL AGENCY REQUIREMENTS. (SEE WWW.WOODWORKINSTITUTE.COM).
B. FIELD DIMENSION ALL ITEMS.
C. PROVIDE IN-WALL BACKING, BLOCKING AND/OR BRACING AS REQUIRED FOR 
SECURE INSTALLATION.
1.04 PRODUCTS:
1. COMPONENTS PER THE FOLLOWING WI MANUAL OF MILLWORK SPECIFICATIONS 
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED ON THE DRAWINGS:
1. STYLE A - FRAMELESS, TYPE 1-MULTIPLE SELF SUPPORTING UNITS
2. EXPOSED SURFACES: FINISHED AS INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS; PLASTIC 
LAMINATE SURFACES TO BE EDGED WITH SAME LAMINATE.
3. SEMI-EXPOSED SURFACES: PER WI REQUIREMENTS
4. DOOR AND DOOR FRONT STYLE: FLUSH OVERLAY, EDGE.
5. ADJUSTABLE SHELVES: DESIGN TO A 50 LB./S.F. UNIFORMLY-SPACED LOAD NOT 
TO EXCEED 200 LBS. PER SHELF.
6. HARDWARE (UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED IN THE DRAWINGS): CONCEALED 
EUROPEAN-STYLE HINGES (BLUM CLIP TOP BLUMOTION HINGE), 4" WIRE PULLS, 2 
1/2" DIAMETER CLOSED-TOP TWO-PIECE PLASTIC GROMMETS (DOUG MOCKETT 
OR EQUAL, COLOR AS SELECTED BY ARCHITECT). COORDINATE LOCK 
REQUIREMENTS WITH OWNER IF NOT INDICATED ON DRAWINGS. FINISH TO BE 
SELECTED BY THE ARCHITECT.
7. DRAWER GLIDES: HEAVY DUTY, FULL EXTENSION (ACCURIDE OR EQUAL).
8. ALL INTERIOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS  (PARTICLEBOARD (PB), AND 
MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD (MDF) SHALL CONTAIN NO ADDED 
FORMALDEHYDE (NAF), AS DETERMINED BY CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCE BOARD 
(CARB) AIR TOXICS CONTROL MEASURE FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PHASE II. 
PROVIDE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING:
A. MDF (MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD)
• ROSEBURG FOREST PRODUCTS COMPANY "MEDEX" MOISTURE RESISTANT 
MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD PANELS WITH NAF RESIN; ROSEBURG 
FOREST PRODUCTS COMPANY "ARREIS"; INTERIOR MEDIUM DENSITY 
FIBERBOARD PANELS; ROSEBURG FOREST PRODUCTS COMPANY "MEDITE 
3D"; INTERIOR MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD PANELS FOR PROFILE 
MACHINING MADE WITH CARB COMPLIANT RESIN; COLUMBIA FOREST 
PRODUCTS "CALPLANT MDF"
B. PB (PARTICLE BOARD)
• COLLINS "PINE FREEFORM MR50 MOISTURE RESISTANT PARTICLEBOARD;  
COLLINS "PINE FREEFORM"; TIMBER PRODUCTS COMPANY "ENCORE"; 
TIMBER PRODUCTS COMPANY "ENCORE MR" MOISTURE RESISTANT 
PARTICLEBOARD; TIMBER PRODUCTS COMPANY "ENCORE FR"; TIMBER 
PRODUCTS COMPANY "APEX COMPOSITE PANEL"
064100: FINISH CARPENTRY
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES EXPOSED STANDING AND RUNNING WOOD TRIM MEMBERS
INDICATED ON DRAWINGS.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. SHOP DRAWINGS
B. SAMPLES OF EACH SCHEDULED FINISH OF MATERIALS SPECIFIED (TRANSPARENT 
FINISHES ONLY)
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE:
A. COMPLY WITH WOODWORK INSTITUTE SPECIFICATIONS FOR GRADE 
REQUIREMENTS AS FOLLOWS:
1. OPAQUE FINISHES: CUSTOM GRADE
2. TRANSPARENT FINISHES: PREMIUM GRADE 
(SEE WWW.WOODWORKINSTITUTE.COM).
3. PROVIDE IN-WALL BACKING FOR SECURE INSTALLATION. REFER TO DRAWINGS 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
1.04 PRODUCTS:
1. ALL INTERIOR COMPOSITE WOOD PRODUCTS  (PARTICLEBOARD (PB), AND 
MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD (MDF) SHALL CONTAIN NO ADDED 
FORMALDEHYDE (NAF), AS DETERMINED BY CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCE BOARD 
(CARB) AIR TOXICS CONTROL MEASURE FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PHASE II. 
PROVIDE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING:
A. MDF (MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD)
• ROSEBURG FOREST PRODUCTS COMPANY "MEDEX" MOISTURE RESISTANT 
MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD PANELS WITH NAF RESIN; ROSEBURG 
FOREST PRODUCTS COMPANY "ARREIS"; INTERIOR MEDIUM DENSITY 
FIBERBOARD PANELS; ROSEBURG FOREST PRODUCTS COMPANY "MEDITE 
3D"; INTERIOR MEDIUM DENSITY FIBERBOARD PANELS FOR PROFILE 
MACHINING MADE WITH CARB COMPLIANT RESIN; COLUMBIA FOREST 
PRODUCTS "CALPLANT MDF"
B. PB (PARTICLE BOARD)
• COLLINS "PINE FREEFORM MR50 MOISTURE RESISTANT PARTICLEBOARD;  
COLLINS "PINE FREEFORM"; TIMBER PRODUCTS COMPANY "ENCORE"; 
TIMBER PRODUCTS COMPANY "ENCORE MR" MOISTURE RESISTANT 
PARTICLEBOARD; TIMBER PRODUCTS COMPANY "ENCORE FR"; TIMBER 
PRODUCTS COMPANY "APEX COMPOSITE PANEL"
064200: PANELWORK (NOT USED)
DIVISION 7 - THERMAL AND MOISTURE PROTECTION
078400: FIRESTOPPING
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES FIRESTOPPING FOR ALL FIRE-RESISTIVE AND SMOKE-RATED
ASSEMBLIES (FLOOR, ROOF AND PARTITION) AND SMOKE BARRIERS AND
COMPARTMENTALIZED AREAS. ALSO INCLUDES SEALANT JOINTS IN FIRE-RESISTIVE
CONSTRUCTION.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH TYPE OF PRODUCT TO BE USED. INDICATE SPECIFIC 
JOBSITE CONDITIONS AND ASSEMBLY TO BE USED. MEET SPECIFIC F AND T 
RATINGS AS REQUIRED BY CODE.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE: COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE ASTM AND UL REQUIREMENTS
FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION, AND MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS.
1.04 PRODUCTS: CONTRACTOR'S OPTION TO MEET SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE
REQUIREMENTS, CODES AND QUALITY STANDARDS FOR THE WORK. PRODUCTS 
     MUST MEET LANDLORD BUILDING STANDARD, IF ANY.
078100: SPRAYED FIRE-RESISTIVE MATERIALS
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES SPRAYED FIRE-RESISTIVE MATERIALS AS REQUIRED BY
THE WORK.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH TYPE OF PRODUCT TO BE USED.
B. PRODUCT CERTIFICATES SIGNED BY MANUFACTURER THAT PRODUCTS 
FURNISHED COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE WORK.
C. RESEARCH/EVALUATION REPORTS: EVIDENCE OF SPRAYED FIRE-RESISTIVE 
MATERIALS COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODES.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE: COMPLY WITH ALL APPLICABLE ASTM AND UL REQUIREMENTS
FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION, AND MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS.
1.04 CONTRACTOR REQUIRED TO MEET SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS, 
CODES, AND QUALITY STANDARDS FOR THE WORK. PRODUCTS: WHERE SPRAYED 
FIRE RESISTIVE MATERIAL IS REQUIRED, PROVIDE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING: GRACE, 
"MONOKOTE MK-6" OR "MONOKOTE MK-10"; ISOLATEK, "CAFCO BLAZE-SHIELD 
PRODUCTS".
DESIGN BUILD GENERAL NOTES
PART 3: PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS
CREATED:
PLOTTED:
PROJECT:
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOM REMODEL
C:\REVIT\temp\15041-08-Staff RR Remodel_CEN_R20_mdr.rvt
10/6/2020 3:30:47 PM
A-021
SPECIFICATIONS
10/02/09
15041.08
SAN MATEO CITY HALL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
08.20.20
ISSUE FOR REVIEW
09.24.20
95% CD'S
1
10.07.20
PLAN CHECK RESPONSE
199 of 250

--- page 200 ---
PART 3: PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS, CONTINUED
079200: JOINT SEALANTS
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES JOINT SEALANTS FOR INTERIOR JOINTS IN VERTICAL 
SURFACES AND HORIZONTAL NON-TRAFFIC SURFACES.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH TYPE OF PRODUCT TO BE USED INDICATING 
SUITABILITY FOR THE USE INDICATED.
B. COLOR SAMPLES/MANUFACTURER'S SELECTIONS SELECTED BY ARCHITECT 
FROM MANUFACTURER'S STANDARD RANGE OF FINISHES.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE: COMPLY WITH MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS.
1.04 PRODUCTS:
A. WHERE GLAZING SEALANT IS REQUIRED, PROVIDE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING 
CLEAR SILICONE PRODUCTS: TREMCO, "SPECTREM 1" OR "SPECTREM 2"; 
PECORA CORPORATION, "890", "895", "864"; CUSTOM BUILDING PRODUCTS, 
"COMMERCIAL 100% SILICONE SEALANT"
B. WHERE JOINT SEALANT IS REQUIRED AT WET AREAS, PROVIDE ONE OF THE 
FOLLOWING PRODUCTS: TREMCO, "TREMSIL 200"; TREMSIL, "600 WHITE"; 
PECORA CORPORATION, "898"
C. SEALANT AT GLAZING JOINTS: CLEAR SILICONE.
D. SEALANT AT WET AREAS: MILDEW RESISTANT.
1.05 ADHESIVES, SEALANTS AND CAULKS TOCOMPLY WITH VOC LIMITS IN SCAQMD 
RULE 1168 VOC LIMITS AND CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS TITLE 17 FOR 
AEROSOL ADHESIVES (13C.5.504.4.1). PRODUCTS MUST BE TESTED FOR EMISSIONS 
AND DEEMED COMPLIANT WITH THE CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH 
(CDPH) STANDARD METHOD V1.1 OR V1.2.
DIVISION 8 - DOORS AND WINDOWS
081100: STEEL DOORS AND FRAMES
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES STEEL DOORS AND FRAMES AS SCHEDULED ON THE 
DRAWINGS.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH ITEM TO BE USED.
B. SHOP DRAWINGS SHOWING FABRICATION AND INSTALLATION DETAILS, AND 
ELEVATIONS. DOOR SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED ASSEMBLIES.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE: COMPLY WITH ANSI/STEEL DOOR INSTITUTE 
"RECOMMENDED
SPECIFICATIONS FOR STANDARD STEEL DOORS AND FRAMES". 
(SEE WWW.STEELDOOR.ORG) PROVIDE 1/4" CLEARANCE AT THRESHOLDS AND 
FINISH FLOOR SURFACES, UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
1.04 PRODUCTS: CONTRACTOR'S OPTION TO MEET SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE AND
AESTHETIC REQUIREMENTS, SHOWN ON THE DRAWINGS, AS REQUIRED CODES 
AND
PER INDUSTRY QUALITY STANDARDS FOR THE WORK.
083200: ALUMINUM SLIDING GLASS DOORS (NOT USED)
081416: ALUMINUM KNOCKDOWN FRAMES
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES INTERIOR ALUMINUM DOOR AND WINDOW FRAMES SHOWN
ON THE DRAWINGS.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH ITEM TO BE USED.
B. SHOP DRAWINGS SHOWING FABRICATION AND INSTALLATION DETAILS AND 
ELEVATIONS.
C. SAMPLES:
1. FINISH SAMPLE.
2. SOUND GASKETS FOR SELECTION BY ARCHITECT.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE:
1. COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS OF THE ARCHITECTURAL ALUMINUM 
MANUFACTURER'S ASSOCIATION AND MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS.
2. MINIMIZE THE OCCURANCE OF GAPS BETWEEN THE FRAME AND ADJACENT 
PARTITION. FILL GAPS WITH PAINTABLE LATEX SEALANT.
3. REPAIR ALL SCRATCHES, DENTS, OR OTHER IMPERFECTIONS PRIOR TO PUNCHLIST 
USING FINISH TO MATCH EXISTING.
1.04 PRODUCTS: WESTERN INTEGRATED, WILSON PARTITIONS OR EQUAL. PROFILES 
AND FINISH AS DESCRIBED IN DRAWINGS. PROVIDE WOOL PILE SOUND GASKET, 
U.O.N. PROVIDE VINYL SMOKE GASKET AT RATED DOORS.
082110: FLUSH WOOD DOORS
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES SOLID CORE DOORS WITH FINISHES AS INDICATED ON
THE DRAWINGS.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. SHOP DRAWINGS SHOWING FABRICATION AND INSTALLATION DETAILS, AND 
ELEVATIONS.
B. SAMPLES OF WOOD VENEER FINISH (IF OCCURS).
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE: COMPLY WITH ANSI/WDMA I.S. 1-A AND OTHER APPLICABLE
QUALITY STANDARDS OF THE WINDOW & DOOR MANUFACTURER'S ASSOCIATION
(WDMA) (SEE WWW.WDMA.COM ) AND THE WOODWORK INSTITUTE (WI)
(SEE WWW.WOODWORKINSTITUTE.COM). FLUSH WOOD DOORS SHALL CONTAIN 
NO ADDED FORMALDEHYDE (NAF), AS DETERMINED BY CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCE 
BOARD (CARB) AIR TOXICS CONTROL MEASURE FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PHASE II. 
FLUSH WOOD DOORS SHALL BE SOURCED FROM A FOREST STEWARDSHIP 
COUNCIL (FSC) CERTIFIED FOREST. 
1.04 PRODUCTS: OREGON DOOR, PACIFIC OR EGGERS, 86% FSC WITH WITH NO ADDED 
FORMADLEHYDE (NAF) PER CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCE BOARD (CARB) AIR TOXICS 
CONTROL MEASURE FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PHASE II, ULTR-LOW EMITTING 
FORMALDEHYDE (ULEF) CERTIFICATION DEMONSTRATING TVOCs LESS 
THAN/EQUAL TO 0.5 MG/M3, SUCH AS SCS INDOOR ADVANTAGE GOLD OR 
GREENGUARD GOLD.FLUSH WOOD DOORS SHALL BE SOURCED FROM A FOREST 
STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL (FSC) CERTIFIED FOREST.
A. FACE VENEER: FOR TRANSPARENT OR STAIN-FINISHED DOORS: SPECIES AND 
VENEER CUT AS INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS. FOR PAINTED DOORS: MDF.
B. MATCHING OF THE VENEER ON THE FACE OF THE DOORS: BOOK MATCHED, 
UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS.
C. ASSEMBLY OF SPLICED VENEER ON THE DOOR FACE: RUNNING MATCH, UNLESS 
OTHERWISE INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS.
D. DOORS IN PAIRS OR SETS: CONTINUOUS MATCH, UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED 
ON THE DRAWINGS.
E. DOORS WITH TRANSOM APPEARANCE: END MATCH UNLESS OTHERWISE 
INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS.
F. CONSTRUCTION TO BE 5-PLY WITH PARTICLE BOARD CORE WITH NO ADDED 
FORMALDEHYDE STILES AND RAILS BONDED TO CORE. ON STAINED DOORS, 
EDGES VENEERED TO MATCH DOOR FACES FOR A MONOLITHIC APPEARANCE.
G. ON RATED DOORS, CORE MATERIAL AS REQUIRED FOR RATING AND POSITIVE 
PRESSURE INTUMESCENT BANDING INSIDE OF FACE VENEER.
H. PROVIDE 1/4" CLEARANCE AT THRESHOLDS AND FINISH FLOOR MATERIALS, 
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
I. ALL COMPOSITE WOOD SHALL MEET CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCE BOARD (CARB) 
AIR TOXICS CONTROL MEASURE FOR COMPOSITE WOOD PHASE II
083100: ACCESS DOORS
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES WALL AND CEILING ACCESS DOORS AS INDICATED ON THE
DRAWINGS OR OTHERWISE REQUIRED BY THE WORK.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH TYPE OF ACCESS DOOR REQUIRED INDICATING FIRE-
RATINGS AS APPROPRIATE.
B. DRAWING(S) SHOWING LOCATION(S) OF ACCESS DOORS TO BE EXPOSED TO VIEW.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE:
A. AT RATED CONDITIONS, COMPLY WITH NFPA 80 AND UL LABEL REQUIREMENTS AS 
APPROPRIATE.
B. VERIFY SIZE INDICATED IS ADEQUATE FOR INTENDED USE; PROPOSE ALTERNATE 
SIZE IF REQUIRED.
1.04 PRODUCTS:
A. IN NON-EXPOSED, RATED OR NON-RATED WALLS OR CEILINGS: CONTRACTOR'S 
OPTION TO MEET SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS, CODES AND QUALITY 
STANDARDS FOR THE WORK.
B. IN EXPOSED NON-RATED GYPSUM-BOARD CEILINGS, WALLS, OR SOFFITS: 
FORMGLAS 24" X 24" GLASS-FIBER REINFORCED GYPSUM PANEL TAPED INTO 
CEILING CONSTRUCTION. (SEE WWW.FORMGLAS.COM). PAINT TO MATCH 
ADJACENT SURFACES.
C. COORDINATE EXACT LOCATIONS WITH ITEM(S) TO BE ACCESSED. REVIEW 
LOCATIONS WITH ARCHITECT PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.
084200: ALL-GLASS ENTRANCES (NOT USED)
087100: DOOR HARDWARE
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES ALL COMMERCIAL FINISH OR DOOR HARDWARE REQUIRED
FOR INTENDED FUNCTION INDICATED ON DRAWINGS.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. HARDWARE SCHEDULE BASED ON GROUPS SHOWN ON DRAWINGS; REVIEW 
GROUPS FOR COMPLETENESS AND REVISE IF NECESSARY TO MEET SPECIFIC 
REQUIREMENTS FOR EACH DOOR ASSEMBLY.
B. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH TYPE OF HARDWARE USED.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE: USE A QUALIFIED ARCHITECTURAL DOOR HARDWARE
SUPPLIER THAT HAS A RECORD OF SUCCESSFUL IN-SERVICE PERFORMANCE FOR
SUPPLYING DOOR HARDWARE SIMILAR TO THAT SPECIFIED, AND THAT EMPLOYS
AN EXPERIENCED ARCHITECTURAL HARDWARE CONSULTANT (AHC) AVAILABLE TO
THE PROJECT TEAM.
1.04 PRODUCTS:
A. AS SCHEDULED ON THE DRAWINGS.
B. DO NOT USE MANUFACTURER'S PRODUCTS THAT HAVE MANUFACTURER'S NAME OR 
TRADE NAME DISPLAYED IN A VISIBLE LOCATION EXCEPT IN CONJUNCTION WITH 
REQUIRED FIRE-RATED LABELS.
C. STANDARD FINISH: AS NOTED ON THE DRAWINGS.
D. COORDINATE KEYING REQUIREMENTS WITH OWNER.
1.05 MAINTENANCE: AS APPLICABLE, FURNISH TO THE OWNER A COMPLETE SET OF
SPECIALIZED TOOLS AND MAINTENANCE INSTRUCTIONS AS NEEDED FOR OWNER'S
CONTINUED ADJUSTMENT, MAINTENANCE, REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT
OF DOOR HARDWARE.
088000: GLAZING (NOT USED)
DIVISION 9 - FINISHES
092900: GYPSUM BOARD ASSEMBLIES
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES NON-LOAD BEARING STEEL STUD AND ASSOCIATED GYPSUM
BOARD ASSEMBLIES.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH TYPE OF PRODUCT SPECIFIED OR OTHERWISE SHOWN 
ON DRAWINGS. INCLUDE PROPOSED TRIM SELECTIONS.
B. MANUFACTURER'S STUD TABLES INDICATING PROPOSED GAUGE AND STUD SIZE, 
SPACING. VERIFY APPLICATION MEETS REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIED HEREIN, ON 
DRAWINGS AND FOR SPECIFIC SITE CONDITIONS.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE:
A. COMPLY WITH FIRE-RESISTANCE RATINGS, AS INDICATED ON DRAWINGS.
B. STEEL FRAMING: COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS OF THE STEEL STUD 
MANUFACTURER'S ASSOCIATION (SEE WWW.SSMA.COM) AND ICC REPORT 
ESR-3064P.
C. LEVELS OF GYPSUM BOARD FINISH (PER ASTM C840):
1. LEVEL 1 FOR CEILING PLENUM AREAS, CONCEALED AREAS, AND WHERE 
INDICATED UNLESS A HIGHER LEVEL OF FINISH IS REQUIRED FOR FIRE-RESISTIVE 
AND SOUND-RATED ASSEMBLIES.
2. LEVEL 4 FOR EXPOSED PARTITION AND CEILING ASSEMBLIES, AND AS 
SUBSTRATE FINISH FOR ADHESIVE-APPLIED WALLCOVERINGS, UNLESS LEVEL 5 
RECOMMENDED BY MANUFACTURER AND/OR OTHERWISE NOTED ON THE 
DRAWINGS.
3. LEVEL 5 AS SUBSTRATE FINISH FOR GRAPHIC WALLS, SPECIALTY 
WALLCOVERINGS (EXCLUSIVE OF FABRIC WRAPPED PANELS AND MOUNTED 
PANEL SYSTEMS), WRITABLE PAINT, AND AS NOTED ON THE DRAWINGS.
4. FOLLOW MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS FOR PRODUCTS TO BE USED.
1.04 PRODUCTS:
A. STEEL FRAMING AS INDICATED ON DRAWINGS AND PER QUALITY ASSURANCE 
REQUIREMENTS.
B. GYPSUM BOARD PRODUCTS, PROVIDE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING: USG, "SHEETROCK 
ECOSMART PANELS FIRECODE TYPE X"; CERTAINTEED GYPSUM BOARD, "AirRENEW 
ESSENTIAL TYPE X"
1. THICKNESS: 5/8", UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
2. TYPE: TYPE X WHERE REQUIRED FOR FIRE-RESISTIVE REQUIREMENTS.
3. CEMENTITIOUS BACKER BOARD AT WET AREAS.
4. TAPEABLE METAL TRIM PIECES FOR GYPSUM BOARD PROFILES SHOWN ON THE 
DRAWINGS.
C. ACOUSTICAL MATERIALS:
1. SEALANT - PROVIDE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING: USG, "SHEETROCK BRAND 
FIRECODE SMOKE-SOUND SEALANT"; USG, "SHEETROCK ACOUSTICAL SEALANT"; 
PECORA CORPORATION, "AC-20 FTR"; SPECIFIED TECHNOLOGIES INC, "SPECSEAL 
SMOKE N SOUND ACOUSTICAL SEALANT".
2. INSULATION: THERMAFIBER (OR EQUAL) SOUND ATTENUATING BLANKETS 
PROVIDE 2.5 PCF, UNFACED, SELF-SUPPORTING UL-LABELED BLANKETS (IN 
WIDTHS AS APPROPRIATE FOR FRAMING SPACING) OR ONE OF THE FOLLOWING 
PRODUCTS: OWENS CORNING, "ECOTOUCH™ QUIETZONE® PINK™ FIBERGLAS® 
ACOUSTIC BATT INSULATION"; KNAUF ECOBATT UNFACED
3. ABOVE CEILING: 1-1/2" THICK
4. IN-WALL: 2-1/2" THICK AT 2-1/2 STUD FRAMING; 3-1/2" THICK (UNLESS OTHERWISE 
NOTED ON DRAWINGS) FOR 3-5/8" STUD FRAMING AND GREATER.
D. VAPOR BARRIER (WHEN OCCURS) AS INDICATED ON DRAWINGS.
093000: CERAMIC/DIMENSION STONE TILE
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES CERAMIC AND/OR DIMENSION STONE TILE AND RELATED 
SETTING MATERIALS AS SCHEDULED ON THE DRAWINGS.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH TYPE OF PRODUCT SPECIFIED.
B. SAMPLES OF EACH TYPE OF TILE SCHEDULED.
C. SHOP DRAWINGS (STONE TILE ONLY).
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE:
A. MEET RECOMMENDATIONS SET FORTH IN CURRENT EDITION OF TILE COUNCIL OF 
AMERICA'S "HANDBOOK FOR CERAMIC TILE INSTALLATION".
B. DYNAMIC COEFFICIENT OF FRICTION: WET DOCF OF 0.42 OR GREATER WHEN 
TESTED PER THE DCOF ACUTEST & ANSI A137.1.
1.04 PRODUCTS: AS SCHEDULED ON THE DRAWINGS AND PER QUALITY ASSURANCE
REQUIREMENTS. PROVIDE PATTERN LAYOUT IF SHOWN ON DRAWINGS.
1.05 U.O.N., WHEN TILE IS INSTALLED IN CEMENTITIOUS SETTING MATERIAL, ALL
NON-EPOXY GROUT JOINTS SHALL BE SEALED WITH A NON-STAINING GROUT
SEALER PER TILE AND GROUT MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS.
094020: TERRAZZO/POURED & TROWELED STONE (NOT USED)
095100:  ACOUSTICAL PANEL CEILINGS (NOT USED)
095616: ACOUSTICAL SNAP-IN METAL PAN CEILINGS (NOT USED)
096500: RESILIENT TILE FLOORING AND BASE (NOT USED)
096816:  CARPET (NOT USED)
096813: CARPET TILE (NOT USED)
097200: WALLCOVERING (NOT USED)
097723: FABRIC-WRAPPED PANELS (NOT USED)
099000: PAINTING
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES SURFACE PREPARATION AND FIELD PAINTING OF EXPOSED
INTERIOR ITEMS AND SURFACES.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH PAINT SYSTEM TO BE USED; INDICATE WHICH 
SUBSTRATES ARE TO RECEIVE EACH PRODUCT.
B. SAMPLES: BRUSHOUTS OF EACH COLOR SCHEDULED.
C. [MOCKUPS AS REQUIRED ON DRAWINGS; PERMANENT LIGHTING TO BE IN PLACE 
FOR REVIEW OF FIELD SAMPLES]
D. ALL PAINT SHALL HAVE NO V.O.C.
102226: OPERABLE PANEL PARTITIONS (NOT USED)
102600: WALL PROTECTION SYSTEMS (NOT USED)
104400: FIRE EXTINGUISHERS, CABINETS AND ACCESSORIES (NOT USED)
DIVISION 11 - EQUIPMENT
115213: PROJECTION SCREENS (NOT USED)
113000: APPLIANCES (NOT USED)
DIVISION 12 - FURNISHINGS
122400: BLINDS, SHADES AND WINDOWCOVERINGS (NOT USED)
DIVISION 13 - SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION (NOT USED)
DIVISION 14 - CONVEYING SYSTEMS (NOT USED)
DIVISION 22: PLUMBING
1.01 GENERAL: REFER TO PLUMBING DRAWINGS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH ITEM TO BE USED
B. SHOP DRAWINGS INDICATING LAYOUT, SCHEDULES, INSTALLATION DETAILS, AND 
LOCATION OF CONTROLS.
DIVISION 23: HVAC
1.01 GENERAL: REFER TO MECHANICAL DRAWINGS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA FOR EACH ITEM TO BE USED
B. SHOP DRAWINGS INDICATING LAYOUT, SCHEDULES, INSTALLATION DETAILS, AND 
LOCATION OF CONTROLS.
DIVISION 26: ELECTRICAL
1.01 GENERAL: REFER TO ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. PRODUCT DATA TO INCLUDE DEVICE AND LIGHTING FIXTURE CUTSHEETS
B. SHOP DRAWINGS OF SPECIALTY FIXTURES OR DEVICES
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE: PER MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SUBSTRATE
TO BE FINISHED. NO PAINTING OR INTERIOR FINISHING SHALL BE DONE UNDER
CONDITIONS WHICH JEOPARDIZE THE QUALITY OR APPEARANCE OF SUCH WORK.
A. ALL WOODWORK FINISHES TO MATCH ARCHITECT'S SAMPLE.
B. ALL COLORS ARE TO BE SELECTED BY THE ARCHITECT. CONTRACTOR SHALL 
PROVIDE THREE 8" X 10" BRUSH-OUT CARDS OF EACH OPAQUE FINISH COLOR 
AND OBTAIN ARCHITECT'S APPROVAL OF SAMPLES PRIOR TO APPLICATION. FOR 
TRANSPARENT FINISHES, PROVIDE THREE 8" X 10" SAMPLES OF EACH FINISH ON 
THE SPECIES OF WOOD SPECIFIED AND OBTAIN ARCHITECT'S APPROVAL OF 
SAMPLES PRIOR TO COMMENCING  WORK.
C. ALL WOOD SURFACES SHALL BE IN PROPER CONDITION TO RECEIVE THE 
SPECIFIED FINISH. WOODWORK SHALL BE HAND-SANDED AND DUSTED CLEAN. 
ALL KNOT HOLES, PITCH POCKETS OR SAPPY PORTION SHALL BE SCRAPED AND 
SHELLACKED OR SEALED WITH KNOT SEALER. NAIL HOLES, CRACKS, OR 
DEFECTS SHALL BE CAREFULLY PUTTIED AFTER FIRST COAT, WITH PUTTY 
MATCHING COLOR OF STAIN OR PAINT FINISH. REMOVE ANY OIL OR GREASE WITH 
MINERAL SPIRITS.
D. INTERIOR WOODWORK FINISHES SHALL BE SANDED BETWEEN COATS.
E. INTERIOR GYPSUM WALLBOARD SURFACES SHALL BE WIPED WITH DAMP CLOTH 
JUST PRIOR TO APPLICATION OF THE FIRST COAT, IN ORDER TO LAY FLAT ANY 
NAP WHICH MAY HAVE FORMED DURING THE SANDING PROCESS. CRACKS, 
HOLES, OR IMPERFECTIONS IN PLASTER OR WALLBOARD SHALL BE FILLED WITH 
THE PROPER PATCHING COMPOUND FOR THAT MATERIAL.
F. EXAMINE ALL SURFACES TO BE FINISHED UNDER THIS CONTRACT AND SEE THAT 
THE WORK OF OTHER TRADES HAS BEEN LEFT OR INSTALLED IN SATISFACTORY 
CONDITION TO RECEIVE PAINT, STAIN, OR SPECIFIED FINISH. THE APPLICATION 
OF THE FIRST COAT SHALL INDICATE ACCEPTANCE OF THE SURFACE.
CLEANING AND RETOUCHING:
A. AT COMPLETION OF PAINTING, ALL PAINT MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT SHALL BE 
REMOVED, ALL PAINT SPOTS REMOVED AND ALL AREAS THOROUGHLY CLEANED. 
ANY DIRT OR DEBRIS CAUSED BY WORK SHALL BE CLEANED UP AS WORK 
PROGRESSES.
B. RETOUCH OR REFINISH PAINTED SURFACES DAMAGED BY SUBSEQUENT WORK 
AS DIRECTED BY GENERAL CONTRACTOR.  THE COST OF SUCH WORK SHALL BE 
BORNE BY THE TRADE RESPONSIBILE FOR THE DAMAGE.
1.04 PRODUCTS: PROVIDE ONE OF THE FOLLOWING PAINT SYSTEM PRODUCTS WITH 
ZERO VOC: BENJAMIN MOORE, "ULTRA SPEC 500 SERIES"; PPG, "SPEEDHIDE 
SERIES"; SHERWIN WILLIAMS, "PROMAR 200 ZERO VOC"
A. ON GYPSUM WALLBOARD SURFACES, PROVIDE ACRYLIC-LATEX-BASED PAINT, 
TWO FINISH COATS OVER A SINGLE PRIME COAT, SHEEN AS FOLLOWS (UNLESS 
OTHERWISE NOTED ON DRAWINGS):
1. CEILINGS: FLAT.
2. PARTITIONS: EGGSHELL.
3. PARTITIONS IN BREAK/COFFEE/DINING-TYPE AREAS AND RESTROOMS: 
SEMIGLOSS.
B. ON WOODWORK TO BE PAINTED, PROVIDE ACRYLIC-ENAMEL-BASED PAINT, TWO 
FINISH COATS OVER A WOOD UNDERCOATER, SEMIGLOSS FINISH.
C. ON WOODWORK TO BE STAINED WITH A SATIN-VARNISH FINISH, PROVIDE TWO 
FINISH COATS OF A WATERBORNE, CLEAR-SATIN VARNISH OVER A SEALER COAT 
AND A WATERBORNE INTERIOR WOOD STAIN (TO MATCH ARCHITECT'S SAMPLE).
D. ON WOODWORK TO BE STAINED WITH A FULL-GLOSS, VARNISH FINISH, PROVIDE 
TWO FINISH COATS OF A WATERBORNE, CLEAR, FULL-GLOSS VARNISH OVER A 
SEALER COAT AND A WATERBORNE INTERIOR WOOD STAIN (TO MATCH 
ARCHITECT'S SAMPLE).
E. ON NATURAL-FINISH WOODWORK WITH A SATIN-VARNISH FINISH, PROVIDE TWO 
FINISH COATS OF A WATERBORNE, CLEAR-SATIN VARNISH OVER A SANDING 
SEALER.
F. ON NATURAL-FINISH WOODWORK WITH A FULL-GLOSS FINISH, PROVIDE TWO 
FINISH COATS OF A WATERBORNE, CLEAR, FULL-GLOSS VARNISH OVER A 
SANDING SEALER.
G. ON NATURAL-FINISH WOODWORK WITH A WAX-POLISHED FINISH, PROVIDE THREE 
FINISH COATS OF PASTEWAX OVER A SANDING SEALER.
H. ON FERROUS METAL SURFACES TO BE PAINTED, PROVIDE ONE SEMIGLOSS 
ACRYLIC-LATEX ENAMEL FINISH COAT OVER ONE ALKYD ENAMEL UNDERCOAT 
AND ONE ALKYD-BASED OR EPOXY-METAL PRIMER.
I. ON SURFACES TO BE ELECTROSTATICALLY PAINTED, PREPARE, PRIME, AND 
REFINISH PER MANUFACTURER'S RECOMMENDATIONS USING ELECTROSTATIC 
EPOXY, TWO COAT MINIMUM. SUPPLIER: SOUTHERN COATINGS OR EQUAL.
1.05 EXTRA MATERIALS: UNLESS OTHERWISE DIRECTED BY OWNER, PROVIDE 1 GALLON
OFEACH COLOR AND FINISH.
1.06 PAINTS AND COATINGS:  COMPLY WITH VOC LIMITS IN THE AIR RESOURCES BOARD
ARCHITECTURAL COATINGS SUGGESTED CONTROL MEASURE AND CALIFORNIA 
CODE REGULATIONS TITLE 17 FOR AEROSOL PAINT (13C.5.504.4.3).
DIVISION 10 - INFORMATION SPECIALTIES
101100: VISUAL DISPLAY BOARDS (NOT USED)
101400: SPECIALTY SIGNS
1.01 GENERAL: INCLUDES FURNISHING AND INSTALLING SIGNAGE AS INDICATED
ON THE DRAWINGS.
1.02 SUBMITTALS:
A. SAMPLES OF EACH SIGN TYPE TO BE USED.
B. WARRANTY: SUBMIT WRITTEN WARRANTY PER QUALITY ASSURANCE.
1.03 QUALITY ASSURANCE:
A. WARRANTY ALL SIGNS AGAINST DEFECTS IN PAINT, STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY, 
OPERATION AND GENERAL APPEARANCE FOR A PERIOD OF FIVE YEARS AFTER 
DATE OF SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION.
B. MEETS T24 ACCESSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
1.04 PRODUCTS: AS INDICATED ON THE DRAWINGS.
CREATED:
PLOTTED:
PROJECT:
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOM REMODEL
C:\REVIT\temp\15041-08-Staff RR Remodel_CEN_R20_mdr.rvt
10/6/2020 3:30:48 PM
A-022
SPECIFICATIONS
11/30/11
15041.08
SAN MATEO CITY HALL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
08.20.20
ISSUE FOR REVIEW
09.24.20
95% CD'S
1
10.07.20
PLAN CHECK RESPONSE
200 of 250

--- page 201 ---
DEMOLITION - LEGEND
DESCRIPTION
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION TO BE REMOVED
SHEET NOTE
000
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION TO REMAIN
SYMBOL
CONSTRUCTION - LEGEND
DESCRIPTION
SHEET NOTE
000
0A-0.0
ELEVATION NUMBER
ELEVATION SHEET
ELEVATION TAG
00
DOOR TAG
SYMBOL
00
(E) FLOOR DRAIN AND CLEANOUTS NOT SHOWN FOR 
CLARITY. LOCATIONS TO REMAIN AS-IS IF POSSIBLE, V.I.F.
SYMBOL
30" X 42" CLEAR FLOOR SPACE
NEW NON-RATED FULL HEIGHT PARTITION.
2X4 WOOD STUDS @ 16" O.C.,
WITH 5/8" GYP. BD. BOTH SIDES.
NEW 1 HR. RATED  PARTITION.  MATCH (E).
REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - LEGEND
DESCRIPTION
SHEET NOTE
000
CEILING HEIGHT
RELOCATED CEILING- MOUNTED LIFE-SAFETY STROBE
SYMBOL
X'-X"
(N) GYP. BD CEILING TO REPLACE EXISTING CEILING SEE DETAIL 
1-6/A-920.
(N) LED DOWNLIGHT
MRF: INFINIUM, BY SPECTRUM LIGHTING
PRODUCT: 5" ROUND RECESSED LED DOWNLIGHT. SEE 
     ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
L3
(N) WALL MOUNTED LED.
MRF: OXYGEN LIGHTING
PRODUCT: ADAGIO SERIES VANITY.
L2
HVAC GRILLE, SEE MECHANICAL DRAWINGS
DESCRIPTION
SYMBOL
TRIMLESS ACCESS PANEL. METAL HOUSING 
WITH GYP . BD. INSERT FLUSH WITH GYP. 
BD. CEILING.
FINISH - LEGEND
DESCRIPTION
SHEET NOTE
000
XX
FINISH TAG 
(REFER TO FINISH SCHEDULE FOR INFORMATION)
SYMBOL
FINISH TRANSITION
DEMOLITION - GENERAL NOTES
1. REFER TO PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS FOR MORE INFORMATION INCLUDING SELECTIVE DEMOLITION, PROTECTION AND CUTTING OF EXISTING 
CONSTRUCTION.
2. WHERE LIGHT FIXTURES HAVE BEEN DEMOLISHED, REMOVE ALL ASSOCIATED WIRING AND CONDUIT BACK TO SOURCE. 
3. (E) LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM TO REMAIN INTACT AND OPERATIONAL THROUGHOUT DEMOLITION.
4. SEE MEP DRAWINGS FOR MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING & LIFE SAFETY DEMOLITION SCOPE.
5. REMOVE (E) FLOORING, BASE, ASSOCIATED GLUE AND ADHESIVES THROUGHOUT TO THE EXISTING SUBSTRATE IN PREPARATION FOR NEW FINISHES.
CONSTRUCTION - GENERAL NOTES
1. FOR TYPICAL HARDWARE MOUNTING HEIGHTS, REFER TO ELEVATION 2/A-900.
2. DIMENSIONS ARE NOT ADJUSTABLE UNLESS NOTED OR APPROVED BY ARCHITECT.
3. CONTRACTOR TO VERIFY DEMOLITION AS REQUIRED AND PREPARE FOR NEW FINISHES.
4. ALL PARTITIONS DIMENSIONED FROM FINISH FACE TO FINISH FACE (GYPSUM BOARD OR OTHER SCHEDULED FINISHES).  CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY 
THE LOCATION AND THICKNESS OF SCHEDULED FINISH MATERIALS TO PROVIDE INDICATED CLEARANCES.
5. ALL WORK SHALL BE INSTALLED PLUMB, LEVEL, SQUARE AND TRUE, AND IN PROPER ALIGNMENT.
6. GC TO PROVIDE BACKING FOR WALL-MOUNTED DEVICES. SEE DETAIL 1/A-900.
7. DOORS TO HAVE 18" CLR SEE DETAIL 4/A-900.
8. FOR ACCESSIBLE FIXTURE MOUNTING DETAILS SEE 8/A-800.
PROVIDE (N) 20 MIN. RATED 3'X7' SOLID 
CORE WOOD VENEER DOOR. MATCH (E) 
VENEER.
PROVIDE NEW 20 MIN. RATED METAL 
FRAME. PAINT TO MATCH (E). 
PROVIDE A CLOSER AND LATCHING 
HARDWARE. MATCH (E) BUILDING 
STANDARD.
A
6
A-900
6
A-900
(E) DOOR AND FRAME TO BE RELOCATED. 
REPAINT DOOR AND FRAME.
R
REFLECTED CEILING PLAN - GENERAL NOTES
1. CONTRACTOR SHALL IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE ARCHITECT OF ANY CONFLICTING CONDITIONS PRIOR TO AND DURING CONSTRUCTION. 
2. PROVIDE ARCHIECT WITH FIXTURE, SWITCH AND DIFFUSER CUT SHEETS PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.
3. ALL FIRE LIFE SAFETY AND SPRINKLER SYSTEMS TO BE PROVIDE BY THE DESIGN-BUILD SUBCONTRACTOR (UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED).
4. IN THE EVENT OF DISCREPANCIES BETWEEN THE ARCHITECTURAL AND THE DESIGN BUILDING OR ENGINEERING DRAWINGS, THE ENGINEERING DRAWINGS 
SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE WITH RESPECT TO QUANTITY OR LAMP WATTAGE FOR COMPLIANCE WITH ENERGY CONSERVATION STANDARDS, WIRING AND 
CIRCUITING. THE ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE WITH RESPECT TO LOCATION AND FIXTURE TYPE.  CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY 
ARCHITECT IMMEDIATELY IN WRITING OF ALL SUCH DISCREPANCIES.
5. WHERE LED LIGHT FIXTURES ARE SPECIFIED, PROVIDE DIMMING CONTROLS.  VERIFY SPECIFICATIONS & REQUIREMENTS WITH ELECTRICAL DRAWINGS, 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER AND ARCHITECT.
6. RECONFIGURE AND RE-BALANCE HVAC SYSTEM TO ACCOMMODATE NEW LAYOUT. 
FINISH - GENERAL NOTES
1. SEE ELEVATIONS ON A-800 FOR MORE INFORMATION..
2. TYPICAL PAINT COLOR AT GYP. BD. CEILINGS AND SOFFITS: P-1 FLAT U.O.N. TYPICAL PAINTED DOOR & FRAME FINISH: P-1 SEMI-GLOSS U.O.N.
3. FLOOR FINISHES: 
A. VERIFY THAT SUB-SURFACE IS SMOOTH, LEVEL, AND FREE FROM DEFECTS WHICH WOULD AFFECT THE INSTALLATION.  DO NOT PROCEED WITH 
WORK UNTIL DEFECTS HAVE BEEN  CORRECTED.  THOROUGHLY CLEAN SUB-FLOOR PRIOR TO INSTALLATION OF THE FINISH FLOOR.
4. INTERIOR WALL AND CEILING FINISHES SHALL COMPLY WITH CBC SECTION 803.13 AND TABLE 803.13.  INTERIOR FLOOR FINISH SHALL COMPLY WITH 
CBC SECTION 804.
5. PAINT ALL METAL ACCESS PANELS P-1 SEMI-GLOSS FINISH.
6. SEE DETAIL 7/A-900 FOR TILE CORNER DETAIL INSIDE / OUTSIDE.
7. TILE PATTERN TO START AT THE DOOR. FULL TILE CENTERED ON DOOR AS SHOWN.
8. REPAINT (E)  DOORS P-1. PAINT DOOR FRAMES TO MATCH (E).
WOMEN'S
RESTROOM
MOTHER'S
ROOM
MEN'S
RESTROOM
JANITOR'S
CLOSET
60" CLR.
17 1/2"
34" CLR.
EQ.
EQ.
5' - 0"
EQ.
6' - 4" CLR.
48" MIN.
60" CLR.
48" MIN.
6' - 4" CLR.
4" MAX.
4" MAX.
34" CLR.
34" CLR.
17 1/2"
34" CLR.
EQ.
EQ.
34" CLR.
EQ.
EQ.
60"
24"
44" CLR.
32" MIN. CLR.
32" MIN. CLR.
44" MIN.
44" MIN.
4"
36"
12"
EQ.
18"
4"
36"
44" CLR.
1' - 9"
4' - 3"
8"
1' - 9"
5' - 5"
8"
D.1
D.2
D.3
D.5
D.7
D.6
D.4
D.1
D.2
D.8
WOMEN'S
RESTROOM
MEN'S
RESTROOM
MOTHER'S
ROOM
D.7
JANITOR'S
CLOSET
D.3
D.6
L3
L3
L3
L3
L2
L3
8' - 0"
L3
L3
L3
L3
L2
L3
L3
8' - 0"
WOMEN'S
RESTROOM
MEN'S
RESTROOM
JANITOR'S
CLOSET
MOTHER'S
ROOM
EQ.
EQ.
CL
CL
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
CL
30"
36"
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
CL
30"
36"
EQ.
EQ.
EQ.
(E) CEILING TO REMAIN.
CENTER LIGHT 
FIXTURE ABOVE 
MIRROR.
CENTER LIGHT 
FIXTURE ABOVE 
MIRROR.
8' - 0"
F.1
P1
T1
T2
T3
P1
T1
T2
T3
WOMEN'S
RESTROOM
MEN'S
RESTROOM
F.2
F.2
CL
CL
JANITOR'S
CLOSET
F.3
F.4
MOTHER'S
ROOM
P1
B1
WOMEN'S
RESTROOM
MEN'S
RESTROOM
JANITOR'S
CLOSET
GB
CH
HD
M
PT
S
SC
SD
TP
W
WD
N.1
N.2
N.3
CH
CH
CH
CH
GB
HD
M
S
SD
TP
TP
SC
SC
SC
PT
W
MOTHER'S
ROOM
A
R
A
A-800
4
6
A-800
1
3
PT
N.1
2
5
N.4
CREATED:
PLOTTED:
PROJECT:
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
FILE:
NORTH
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOM REMODEL
As indicated
C:\REVIT\temp\15041-08-Staff RR Remodel_CEN_R20_mdr.rvt
10/6/2020 3:30:53 PM
A-410
STAFF RESTROOM PLANS
04/02/20
15041.08
SAN MATEO CITY HALL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
DOOR, FRAME & HARDWARE LEGEND
NUMBER
DESCRIPTION
D.1
REMOVE (E) FLOOR AND WALL TILE, TOILET PARTITIONS, FIXTURES, AND ACCESSORIES THROUGHOUT. (E) FLOOR DRAINS AND CLEANOUTS TO
REMAIN.
D.2
REMOVE ALL (E) ACOUSTICAL TILE CEILINGS, LIGHT FIXTURES, AND CEILING MOUNTED DEVICES.
D.3
REMOVE (E) DOOR, DOOR FRAME, HARDWARE, AND SECTION OF EXISTING WALL.
D.4
REMOVE (E) JANITOR'S ROOM DOOR, FRAME, AND HARDWARE AND SALVAGE FOR RELOCATION.
D.5
DEMOLISH FURRED WALL AND REPLACE WITH NEW FURRED WALL PER CONSTRUCTION PLAN. V.I.F.
D.6
(E) ELECTRICAL OUTLET TO REMAIN.
D.7
(E) HOSE BIB TO REMAIN. RELOCATE IF NEEDED, V.I.F.
D.8
(E) JANITOR'S SINK TO REMAIN
NUMBER
DESCRIPTION
N.1
PROVIDE AND INSTALL (N) DOOR, FRAME, AND WALL MOUNTED RESTOOM SIGNAGE. SEE DETAIL 9/A-800.
N.2
INSTALL SALVAGED POCKET DOOR OR PROVIDE (N) TO MATCH (E).
N.3
REDUCE WIDTH OF (E) FURRED WALL. REPLACE WITH NEW FURRED WALL, V.I.F. DEPTH TO MATCH FURRING IN MEN'S ROOM.
N.4
ENLARGE (E) DOOR OPENING TO FIT (N) 3'-0" WIDE DOOR. V.I.F.
EQUIPMENT NUMBER
TYPE DESCRIPTION
MFR
PRODUCT NAME
NOTE
CH
COAT HOOK
BOBRICK
B-670
GB
GRAB BARS
BOBRICK
B-6806
MOUNT PER DETAILS.
HD
RECESSED
AUTOMATIC HAND
DRYER
BOBRICK
B-3725
M
MIRROR
48" X 42"-MEN'S, 60" X 42"-WOMEN'S
PT
FLOOR ANCHORED,
OVERHEAD BRACED
TOILET PARTITION
ASI,
ACCURATE
BLACK CORE PHENOLIC.
FINISH: WEATHERED ASH
S
SINK
SONOMA
CAST STONE
NUCRETE N603. CUSTOM
RAMP SINK.
SEE PLAN FOR DIMENSIONS AND FLARED
END.
SC
TOILET SEAT COVER
REUSE (E). MOUNT PER DETAILS.
SD
SOAP DISPENSER
SLOAN
ESD 200-P
TP
TOILET PAPER
DISPENSER/ SHELF
(N) TO
MATCH (E)
MOUNT PER DETAILS.
W
PAPER TOWEL
DISPENSER/ TRASH
(N) TO
MATCH (E)
MOUNT PER DETAILS.
WD
SANITARY
PRODUCTS
RECEPTACLE
(N) TO
MATCH (E)
MOUNT PER DETAILS.
TAG
TYPE DESCRIPTION
MANUFACTURER
PRODUCT
NOTE
B1
RUBBER BASE
TBD
P1
PAINT
BENJAMIN
MOORE
2121-70 CHANTILLY LACE
T1
FLOOR TILE
DALTILE COLOR
BODY PORCELAIN
TILE
CHORD, FORTE GREY, CH
25 12" X 24"
T2
WALL TILE
DALTILE
PANORAMIC
PORCELAIN
MANOR WHITE, CM18,
MATTE FINISH, 24" X 48"
T3
ACCENT WALL TILE
DALTILE COLOR
WHEEL
MUSTARD, 3" X 6"
DEMOLITION SHEET NOTES
CONSTRUCTION SHEET NOTES
EQUIPMENT SCHEDULE
FINISH SCHEDULE
NUMBER
DESCRIPTION
F.1
TOUCH UP PAINT AND BASE IN CORRIDOR DUE TO DEMOLITION/CONSTRUCTION. MATCH EXISTING.
F.2
TILE TO VCT TRANSITION.
F.3
NO NEW FLOORING OR PAINT INSIDE JANITOR'S CLOSET.
F.4
NO WALL TILE IN MOTHER'S ROOM. PAINTED GYP. BD. WALLS AND NEW RUBBER BASE.
FINISH SHEET NOTES
1/4" = 1'-0"
1
DIMENSION PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
3
DEMOLITION PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
4
REFLECTED CEILING PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
5
FINISH PLAN
1/4" = 1'-0"
2
CONSTRUCTION PLAN
08.20.20
ISSUE FOR REVIEW
09.24.20
95% CD'S
1
10.07.20
PLAN CHECK RESPONSE
201 of 250

--- page 202 ---
TILE FINISH, W.O.
SELF TAPPING SCREWS
GRAB BAR  1/A-900.
NOTE:
GRAB BARS SHALL SUPPORT A 250 LB POINT
LOAD. CBC SECTIONS 11B-609.8 & 11B-610.4.
FLUSH MOUNTED STUD BACKING, 
SEE DETAIL
01/16
AC-EQUIP-GRAB-BAR-BACKING-STUDS
0' - 1 1/2" CLR.
MIN. CLR.
1' - 0"
MIN. CLR.
0' - 1 1/2"
PROJECTING OBJECT W.O. 
SHOWN DASHED
PROJECTING OBJECT W.O. 
SHOWN DASHED
PARTITION AS SCHEDULED
DIMENSIONS TO REFLECTIVE SURFACE:
40" MAX. WHEN ABOVE VANITY
35" MAX. WHEN ABOVE FLOOR
20" MAX. AT DRESSING ROOM
01/18
AC-HTS-RR
SEAT COVER
(SC)
SANITARY NAPKIN DISPENSER
(SND)
TOWELS/WASTE
(W)
LAVATORY
(LV)
COAT HOOK
(CH)
ACCESSIBLE STALL - SIDE
(WC)
TOILET PAPER DISPENSER 
(TP)
SANITARY NAPKIN DISPOSAL (SD)
URINAL - FRONT
(UR)
MIRROR
(MI)
ACCESSIBLE STALL - FRONT
(WC)
GRAB 
BAR
(GB)
URINAL - SIDE
(UR)
40" MAX.
VARIES
48" MAX. AT ACCESSIBLE
42" MIN.
12" MAX.
54" MIN.
CL
8" (7" MIN. - 9" MAX.)
MIN. CLR.
1 1/2"
B.O. OUTLET
19" MIN. TO
CLR.
1 1/2" MIN.
(17" MIN. - 18" MAX.)
17 1/2"
CL
12"
24"
19" MAX.
17" MIN.
33" MIN. - 36 MAX. T.O. BAR
34"
SEE PLAN
60" MIN. CLR. W/ TOE SPACE OR 66" MIN. CLR.
44" MAX.
30" MIN. CLR. @ 24" DP. ALCOVE
36" MIN. CLR. @ >24" DP. ALCOVE
17" MAX.
60" MIN.
SEE PLAN
13 1/2" MIN.
6" MIN.
9" MIN.
CL
12" MAX.
TOE SPACE EITHER 
SIDE OF STALL
6" MIN.
A-800
10
24" MIN.
LAVATORY
(LV)
34" MAX.
HAND DRYER
(HD)
FI-TRAN-TILE-TILE
02/18
TILE
TILE
SCHEDULED DOOR
AND FRAME, W.O.
T.O. SLAB
(N) TILE
ONE PIECE TRANSITION STRIP 
SPEC: SCHLUTER SCHIENE.
SCRIBE AROUND DOOR 
STRIKE.
(E) TILE
CL
DRAWING NOT TO SCALE
MEN
WOMEN
SIGN TEXT
1. MOUNT ALL WALL SIGNS ON LATCH SIDE OF 
DOOR, OR WHERE THERE IS NO SPACE MOUNT 
ON NEAREST ADJACENT WALL.
2. ALL SIGNS TO HAVE NON-GLARE FINISH.
3. SIGNS SHALL COMPLY W/ REQUIREMENTS OF 
CBC SECTIONS 11B-216.8 AND 11B-703.
4. PROVIDE EASED EDGES AT ALL SIGNS W/ 1/8" 
MIN. RADIUS AT CORNERS.
08/19
AC-SIGN-RESTROOM
BACKGROUND SHALL CONTRAST 
WITH CHARACTERS, SYMBOLS AND 
PICTOGRAMS.
3/4" H CHARACTERS SHALL HAVE
A WIDTH-TO-HEIGHT RATIO W/ FONT 
UPPERCASE LETTER O AT 60% MIN. 
AND 110% MAX. THE LETTER I. THE 
STROKE WIDTH OF THE LETTER I 
SHALL BE 10% MIN & 20% MAX. THE 
CHARACTER HT.  SEE DETAIL G.
BRAILLE. SEE DETAIL G.
MEN'S WALL SIGN
5/8" H. MIN. TYPE RAISED 1/32" MIN. 
HELVETICA MEDIUM UPPERCASE 
LETTERS.
CONTRACTED GRADE 2 BRAILLE, 
3/8" MIN. TO 1/2" MAX. BELOW 
BOTTOM OF TEXT TO TOP OF 
BRAILLE.
MIN. DIM. BETWEEN BRAILLE AND 
RAISED BORDER OR TACTILE 
ELEMENT.
1/4" THK DOOR 
SIGN. COLOR 
CONTRASTS W/ 
DOOR
12" NTS.
F
CL
CL
10" NTS.
10" NTS.
10"  NTS.
6" NTS.
6" NTS.
10" NTS.
SEE G FOR MTG. HT.
WOMEN'S WALL SIGN
E
SEE G FOR MTG. HT.
MEN'S DOOR SIGN
D
WOMEN'S DOOR SIGN
C
12" NTS.
(9" MIN. PER CODE)
0' - 10"
F
-
E
-
CL
(58" MIN. - 60" MAX. REQ'D)
59" A.F.F.
EQ
EQ
EQ
EQ
CL
CL
(9" MIN. PER CODE)
0' - 10"
EQEQ
C
-
D
-
A
WOMEN'S RESTROOM
ELEVATION
B
MEN'S RESTROOM
ELEVATION
G
TACTILE WALL SIGNS MTG. HT.
HIGHEST RAISED CHARACTER
60" MAX. A.F.F. TO BASELINE OF
1/2" MAX.
3/8" MIN.
BOTTOM OF BRAILLE
48" MIN. A.F.F. TO
3/8" MIN.
WALL MOUNTED LAVATORY
1 1/2" = 1'-0"
01/16
974_AC-EQUIP-SINK-SOHO
PROVIDE HANDY-SHIELD 
SAFETY COVERS 
(WHEELCHAIR/OFFSET 
TAILPIECE/VALVE SUPPLY 
COVER) AROUND DRAIN & HOT 
WATER LINES PER C.B.C. 
11B-606.5. COLOR: WHITE.
MIRROR AS SCHEDULED
9" MIN.
TOE CLR.
0' - 6" MAX.
0' - 11" MIN.
AT LAVATORY
17" MIN. - 19" MAX.
27" MIN.
29" MIN.
CONCRETE COUNTER AS 
SCHEDULED
0' - 8" MIN.
MIN. CLEAR SPACE REQUIRED
30"
INTEGRAL SINK BEYOND
1/4" STEEL PLATE
DOUBLE WALL STUD
34"
T2
TYP.
T3
TYP.
T2
TYP.
SC
SC
(2) FULL TILES, TYP.
(2) FULL TILES, TYP.
7
A-800
T2
TYP.
T3
TYP.
T2
TYP.
10
A-800
M
HD
W
6' - 11"
CL
T2
TYP.
T3
TYP.
T2
TYP.
SC
SC
SC
7
A-800
T2
TYP.
T3
TYP.
T2
TYP.
M
HD
W
10
A-800
6' - 11"
CL
OPEN
OPEN
(E) SPRINKLER LINE, W.O.
CREATED:
PLOTTED:
PROJECT:
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOM REMODEL
C:\REVIT\temp\15041-08-Staff RR Remodel_CEN_R20_mdr.rvt
10/6/2020 3:30:55 PM
A-800
ELEVATIONS AND DETAILS
07/25/19
15041.08
SAN MATEO CITY HALL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
3" = 1'-0"
7
GRAB BAR BACKING
1/2" = 1'-0"
8
ACCESSIBLE RESTROOM FIXTURE MOUNTING HEIGHTS
6" = 1'-0"
11
TILE/TILE TRANSITION
3/8" = 1'-0"
9
RESTROOM ENTRY SIGNS
10
SEE DETAIL 8/- FOR MOUNTING 
HEIGHT INFORMATION
1/2" = 1'-0"
1
MEN'S ROOM ELEVATION - WEST
1/2" = 1'-0"
6
WOMEN'S ROOM ELEVATION - EAST
1/2" = 1'-0"
4
WOMEM'S ROOM ELEVATION - WEST
1/2" = 1'-0"
3
MEN'S ROOM ELEVATION - EAST
08.20.20
ISSUE FOR REVIEW
09.24.20
95% CD'S
1
10.07.20
PLAN CHECK RESPONSE
1/2" = 1'-0"
5
WOMEN'S RESTROOM ELEVATION - NORTH
1/2" = 1'-0"
2
MEN'S RESTROOM ELEVATION - SOUTH
SEE DETAIL 8/- FOR MOUNTING 
HEIGHT INFORMATION
SEE DETAIL 8/- FOR MOUNTING 
HEIGHT INFORMATION
SEE DETAIL 8/- FOR MOUNTING 
HEIGHT INFORMATION
SEE DETAIL 8/- FOR MOUNTING 
HEIGHT INFORMATION
SEE DETAIL 8/- FOR MOUNTING 
HEIGHT INFORMATION
202 of 250

--- page 203 ---
TYPICAL BACKING DETAIL
1 1/2" = 1'-0"
08/15
SF903_PT-BACK-PLATE
STUD GAGE
12"
16"
24"
STUD
SPACING
LOAD
TYPE
V
T
V
T
T
264
566
264
566
264
16
264
570
264
570
264
18
264
306
264
306
264
20
NOTE:
1. DETAIL SHOWN IS PRE-
ENGINEERED  SYSTEM BY 
METAL-LITE, INC "FLUSH-
MOUNT", WHERE FLUSH, 
SMOOTH WALL IS 
REQUIRED. BACKING FOR 
HANDRAILS, GRAB BARS, 
TUB & SHOWER SEATS, 
WALL-HUNG  EQPT & 
FURNITURE
2. SYSTEM TESTED W/ 
APPROVAL # R-0192, 
CALIFORNIA OFFICE OF 
STATEWIDE PLANNING & 
DEVELOPMENT
3. SYSTEM TESTED FOR PULL 
& POINT LOAD OVER 250 
LBS. VERIFY  LIMITATIONS 
W/ MANUFACTURER
FLUSH MOUNTED STUD
BACKING, 6" W/ 1-1/4" LEGS X 
14 GA AS MANUFACTURED
BY  METAL-LITE, INC.
METAL STUDS, 20 GA MIN, 
SLAB-TO- SLAB, SIZE & 
SPACING AS SCHEDULED
ALLOWABLE LOADS (LBS)
SCREWS PER MFR. 
REQUIREMENTS
* NOTE: 48" MIN. IF DOOR HAS 
BOTH A LATCH AND A CLOSER. 
HATCHED AREA MUST BE 
LEVEL (NO MORE THAN 1:48 
SLOPE)
PROVIDE THIS ADDITIONAL
SPACE IF DOOR IS EQUIPPED 
WITH BOTH A LATCH AND A 
CLOSER
01/16
AC-PLAN-DOOR-CLEARANCE
ALL DOORS IN ALCOVES 
MUST COMPLY WITH 
CLEARANCES FOR FRONT 
APPROACH.
MANEUVERING CLEARANCES 
PER CBC SECTIONS 
11B-404.2.4 AND 11B-404.2.4.4
LATCH APPROACH
C
HINGE APPROACH
B
FRONT APPROACH
A
60" MIN.
48" MIN.
PUSH SIDE
PULL SIDE
12" MIN.
18" MIN. CLR. AT INT. DOORS
24" MIN. CLR. AT EXT. DOORS
60" MIN.
44" MIN.*
24" MIN.
60" MIN.
44" MIN.*
36" MIN.
PUSH SIDE
PULL SIDE
* NOTE: 48" MIN. IF DOOR HAS 
BOTH A LATCH AND A CLOSER.
22" MIN.
58" MIN.
10/12
SF910_DW-DOOR-ALUM-CLG-WTYPE-S
A
SECTION
0' - 0 1/4"
0' - 0 1/2"
0' - 1 1/2"
CEILING AS SCHEDULED
SCHEDULED ALUMINUM
FRAME. PROVIDE
FIRE-RATED FRAMES
WHERE NOTED ON DOOR
SCHEDULE
PROVIDE DOUBLE STL.
STUDS AT ALL JAMBS
AND AT ALL HEAD
CONDITIONS
(E) FULL HEIGHT 
PARTITION
SCHEDULED DOOR
B.O. CEILING
SEE R.C.P. FOR HEIGHT
SCHEDULED ALUMINUM
FRAME
(E) PARTITION
SCHEDULED DOOR
SCHEDULED FLOORING
THRESHOLD WHERE
SCHEDULED
A
SECTION
B
PLAN SECTION
NOTE: PROVIDE PAINTABLE CAULK BETWEEN DOOR 
FRAME & PARTITION WHERE GAPS, HOLES VOIDS, 
ETC. OCCUR
ELECTRICAL OUTLET
08/15
SF905_PC-MTG-HT-EXST
LIGHT SWITCHES. GANG AT 
LOCATIONS W/ TWO OR MORE 
SWITCHES.
CL
80" TO BOTTOM OF DEVICE
72" AT NON-ACCESSIBLE, OR MATCH (E)
48" AT ACCESSIBLE
MATCH (E) OR 48" MAX
30" MIN. TO 44" MAX.
TO KEY SLOT. MATCH (E)
48" MAX.
MATCH (E)
15" MIN.
MATCH (E)
ALIGN ALL DEVICES AT 
LOCATION AS DIMENSIONED 
ON PLAN, OR NEXT TO 
DOOR/OPENING AS 
DIMENSIONED BELOW
DOOR
FIRE ALARM STROBE
COAT HOOKS, W.O.
THERMOSTAT OR CARD 
READER, W.O.
LEVER HARDWARE
TELEPHONE OUTLET (GANG 
AT LOCATIONS WITH TWO OR 
MORE OUTLETS)
TILE CORNER DETAIL-INSIDE & OUTSIDE
6" = 1'-0"
WALL TILE AS SCHEDULED
11/15
940_FI-TILE-CORNER
ELASTIC SEALANT
GROUT AND SEALER AS 
SCHEDULED
INSIDE TILE CORNER
USE WHERE COVE TILE IS NOT 
SPECIFIED (COUNTERTOPS, 
NICHES, AND SIM.)  
OUTSIDE TILE CORNER
USE WHERE BULLNOSE OR 
QUARTER ROUND TILE IS NOT 
SPECIFIED
QUADEC SCHLUTER STRIP
MORTAR BOND COAT
PARTITION AS SCHEDULED
CERAMIC TILE SETTING MATERIALS
6" = 1'-0"
03/20
940_FI-TILE-PRODUCTS-LIST
FOR FLOORS AND WALLS (STANDARD DUTY/SMALL FORMAT 
TILE):
CBP VERSABOND FLEX THIN SET LATEX-PORTLAND 
CEMENT MORTAR, OR EQ.  (ANSI 118.4)
FOR LARGE FORMAT TILES AND STONE TILE:
CBP PRO-LITE THIN SET PORTLAND CEMENT AND POLYMER 
MORTAR, OR EQ.  MORTAR BOND COAT WITH LARGE & 
HEAVY TILE (LHT) CHARACTERISTICS (ANSI A118.15)
FOR GLASS TILES:
CBP GLASS TILE PREMIUM THIN SET MORTAR, OR EQ.  
(ANSI A118.15)
GLASS TILE SHALL BE INSTALLED PER TCNA GUIDELINES 
AND ANSI A108.16 INSTALLATION STANDARD
MORTAR BOND COAT
CEMENTITIOUS 
BACKER BOARD
WONDERBOARD CEMENT BACKER BOARD OR HARDI-
BACKER BOARD. THICKNESS AS SHOWN IN DETAILS
CBP CRACK BUSTER PRO CRACK-ISOLATION
MEMBRANE
CRACK-ISOLATION
MEMBRANE (C.I.M.)
CBP EASY-MAT CRACK ISOLATION AND ACOUSTIC
UNDERLAYMENT
SCHLUTER DITRA MAT
PRODUCT
DECRIPTION
PER C.I.M. MANUFACTURER'S SPECIFICATIONS
C.I.M. SUBSTRATE
CBP REDGARD LIQUID-APPLIED WATERPROOFING AND
CRACK-PREVENTION MEMBRANE 
CBP 9240 WATERPROOFING AND ANTI-FRACTURE
MEMBRANE
√
WATERPROOFING
MEMBRANE
SHOWER PAN LINER
ELASTIC JOINT
SEALANT
GROUT AT FLOOR
GROUT AT
WALLS & CEILINGS
GROUT SEALER
PORTLAND CEMENT
MORTAR BED
EDGE TRIM
SUBSURFACE FLATNESS: 
TO AVOID LIPPAGE PER ANSI A108.02, ACCEPTABLE SUBSURFACE FLATNESS SHALL BE 
NO GREATER THAN 1/4" PER 10' FOR SMALL FORMAT TILE (ALL EDGES <15") AND 1/8" PER 
10' FOR LARGE FORMAT TILE (ANY EDGE >15").
GENERAL CONTRACTOR SHALL ENSURE SUBSURFACE FLATNESS AND NOTIFY 
ARCHITECT IF OTHERWISE.  THE TILE SUBCONTRACTOR SHALL INSPECT AND ACCEPT 
EACH SUBSTRATE SURFACE FOR FLATNESS PRIOR TO INSTALLATION OF TILE.  IF WALL 
SUBSURFACES ARE NOT FLAT, PROVIDE CEMENTITIOUS SKIM COAT MATERIAL AND 
PATCH AS REQUIRED.  IF FLOOR SUBSURFACES ARE NOT LEVEL, PROVIDE 
CEMENTITIOUS SELF-LEVELING UNDERLAYMENT PER TCNA METHOD F-205.  IF WALL TILE 
IS TO BE INSTALLED IN AREAS WITH WALL-WASH LIGHT FIXTURES, USE APPROPRIATE 
SETTING MATERIAL TO AVOID BOND COAT SHRINKAGE OR SAGGING.
SEE PARTITION SCHEDULE FOR WALL ASSEMBLIES
SEE FINISH SCHEDULE FOR TILE SPECIFICATIONS
IAPMO LISTED. PVC. USE PRE-FABRICATED CORNERS
AND MANUFACTURER'S APPROVED ADHESIVE. PASCO,
I2M, OR EQUAL
CBP 100% SILICONE COMMERCIAL SEALANT, COLOR 
MATCHED, OR APPROVED EQUAL
CEMENTITIOUS, SANDED: CBP PRISM SURE COLOR GROUT 
OR EQ.
100% COMMERCIAL EPOXY GROUT PER ANSI A118.3
CBP FUSION PRO SINGLE COMPONENT GROUT OR 
MODIFIED EPOXY GROUT PER ANSI A118.8
CEMENTITIOUS, UNSANDED: CBP
POLYBLEND OR EQ.
100% COMMERCIAL EPOXY GROUT PER ANSI A118.3
CBP FUSION PRO SINGLE COMPONENT GROUT OR 
MODIFIED EPOXY GROUT PER ANSI A118.8
AQUAMIX 'SEALERS CHOICE' WATER BASED PENETRATING 
SEALER, OR EQUAL.  USE ON FLOORS AND WALLS (ALL 
AREAS) WHEN EPOXY GROUT IS NOT SPECIFIED
NOTE:  ALL STONE TILE INSTALLATIONS SHALL BE FINISHED 
WITH A NO-VOC PENETRATING SEALER
LATICRETE PREMIUM MORTAR BED OR APPROVED EQUAL
SCHLUTER SCHIENE, COLOR:
CBP "PROFILES" EDGE TRIM, COLOR:
√
√
√
CREATED:
PLOTTED:
PROJECT:
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOM REMODEL
C:\REVIT\temp\15041-08-Staff RR Remodel_CEN_R20_mdr.rvt
10/6/2020 3:30:56 PM
A-900
MISC DETAILS
07/20/15
15041.08
SAN MATEO CITY HALL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
1
1/4" = 1'-0"
4
LEVEL MANEUVERING CLEARANCES AT DOORS
3" = 1'-0"
6
ALUMINUM DOOR FRAME
1/2" = 1'-0"
2
TYPICAL DEVICE MOUNTING HEIGHT
7
11
08.20.20
ISSUE FOR REVIEW
09.24.20
95% CD'S
1
10.07.20
PLAN CHECK RESPONSE
203 of 250

--- page 204 ---
RECESSED DOWNLIGHT-AT GYP. BOARD CEILING
3" = 1'-0"
CEILING AS SCHEDULED
08/15
SF920_CG-REC-DOWNLIGHT
SCHEDULED LIGHT FIXTURE
VERTICAL HANGER WIRE.
SEE DETAIL 3/-.
STRUCTURE ABOVE
TWO (2) 12 GA. SLACK 
SAFETY WIRES ATTACHED 
TO FIXTURE AT DIAGONAL 
CORNERS AND ANCHORED 
TO STRUCTURE ABOVE FOR 
UP TO 56 POUNDS
NOTES:
1. WITH HEAVY DUTY GRID SYSTEM-FIXTURES WEIGHING 56 POUNDS OR MORE MUST HAVE 
(4) TAUT 12 GA. WIRES ATTACHED TO FIXTURE AND TO STRUCTURE ABOVE.
HANGER WIRE GRID CONNECTION TYP.
6" = 1'-0"
CEILING GRID
08/15
SF920_CG-SUSP-HANG-WIRE-WRAP
12 GAUGE HANGER WIRE MIN. 
THREE (3) TIGHT TURNS 
WITHIN 1 1/2"
1 1/2"
CEILING GRID AT SEISMIC STRUT
3" = 1'-0"
NO. 12 GA. VERTICAL WIRE 
HANGER, ADJACENT TO TUBE, 
SECURED TO STRUCTURE 
ABOVE
08/15
SF920_CG-SUSP-GRID-STRUT
ELECTRICAL METALLIC 
TUBING (EMT CONDUIT) 
CRIMPED END TO STRUCTURE 
ABOVE. SEE TABLE BELOW 
FOR SIZES AND ALLOWABLE 
LENGTHS. LEVEL CEILING 
GRID PRIOR TO SETTING TUBE
MAIN RUNNER
CROSS RUNNER
1/2"
3/4"
1"
1-1/4"
SIZE
ALLOWABLE LENGTH
3'-10"
5'-2"
6'-6"
8'-6"
EMT
EMT
EMT
EMT
45º, TYP
LATERAL BRACING WIRES 
DIRECTION, TYP.
SEE DETAIL
CONNECTIONS TO OVERHEAD 
STRUCTURE: ALL HANGER AND 
SPLAYED BRACING WIRES 
SHALL BE FIRMLY ANCHORED 
TO OVERHEAD SUPPORT.
SEE DETAIL 3/A-920
CONNECTION DEVICES SHALL 
HAVE A CAPACITY OF 100 LBS. 
MIN; BRACING OCCURS AT 
12'-0" O.C. EACH
SLOT END OF TUBE TO FIT OVER 
CEILING RUNNER; SECURE W/ 
1/4" MACHINE BOLT
NOTE:
VERIFY AND PROVIDE EXACT STRUT MATERIALS/ 
METHODS REQUIRED BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES.
4/ A-920
GYPSUM CEILING (NON-RATED)
1 1/2" = 1'-0"
08/15
CG-GYP-SUSP
NOTES:
1. IN SEISMIC ZONES 3 AND 4, PROVIDE SEISMIC BRACING: COMPRESSION POST
AND LATERAL BRACING WIRE SIMILAR TO CEILING GRID W/SEISMIC BRACING.
SEE DETAILS 1/A-920 AND 5/A-920.
1 1/2" STEEL CHANNEL AT 
4'-0" O.C.
METAL FURRING CLIPS
STEEL FURRING CHANNELS. 
SEE LIMITING SPANS TABLE
GYPSUM BOARD SECURED TO 
FURRING CHANNELS
NO. 12 VERTICAL AND DIAGONAL 
BRACING WIRES @ 4' O.C. MAX.
LIMITING SPANS - METAL FURRING CHANNELS
TYPE FURR
MEMBER
DWC-25 
(HEMMED)
DWC-20
(UNHEMMED)
MEMBER 
SPACING
16" O.C.
24" O.C.
16" O.C.
24"O.C.
SINGLE LAYER
PANELS (2.5 PSF MAX)
1-SPAN
5'-9"
5'-0"
6'-11"
6'-0"
3-SPAN
7'-1"
6'-2"
8'-6"
7'-5"
DOUBLE LAYER PANELS
(5.0 PSF MAX)
1-SPAN
3-SPAN
4'-7"
4'-0"
5'-5"
4'-9"
5'-8"
4'-11"
6'-9"
5'-11"
3.  INSTALL PER C.B.C. 2506 & REFERENCED STANDARDS.
HANGER WIRE @ WOOD STRUCTURE
1 1/2" = 1'-0"
08/15
CG-SUSP-HANG-WIRE-WOOD-STRUCT
1/4" SCREW EYE CENTERED 
ON TRUSS JOIST
4 TIGHT TURNS
WOOD STRUCTURE 
AND DECKING
(4) #12 SEISMIC WIRE SLOPING 
AT 45° MAX. PROVIDE 
PERIMETER VERTICAL WIRES 
8" FROM WALL
EMBEDMENT
1 1/4" MIN.
EMBEDMENT
1 1/4" MIN.
1/4" SCREW EYE NOTE: WHERE 
BRACING WIRE RUNS 
PARALLEL TO JOISTS, EMBED 
FASTENER IN JOIST FLANGE
4 TIGHT TURNS
WOOD STRUCTURE 
AND DECKING
(4) #12 SEISMIC WIRE SLOPING 
AT 45° MAX. PROVIDE 
PERIMETER VERTICAL WIRES 
8" FROM WALL
CEILING GRID W/ SEISMIC BRACING
3" = 1'-0"
12 GA. VERTICAL HANGER 
WIRE AT 4'-0" EA. WAY WITH 
MIN. 3 TIGHT TURNS IN 1 1/2" 
BOTH ENDS OF WIRE, TYP.
08/15
SF920_CG_SUSP_GRID
COMPRESSION POST (PER 
LOCAL AUTHORITIES) AT 12'-0" 
O.C. EA. WAY WITH FIRST 
POINT TO BE WITHIN 6'-0" 
FROM EACH WALL FASTENED 
TO MAIN RUNNER & 
STRUCTURE ABOVE. 
SEE DETAIL
SEE NOTE 2
45º MAX, TYP
AT POST LOCATIONS, 
PROVIDE FOUR 12 GA. 
LATERAL BRACING WIRE WITH  
MIN. 4 TIGHT TURNS IN 1 1/2" 
BOTH ENDS OF WIRE TYP.
CROSS RUNNERS
MAIN RUNNERS
1. INSTALL PER ICC #ER 2244, ASTM C 635,ASTM C 
636 & CISCA GUIDELINES
2. SPACE BRACING WIRE CONNECTIONS 2" MAX. 
FROM GRID INTERSECTIONS
3. PROVIDE VERTICAL HANGER WIRES 8" MAX. 
FROM ADJACENT VERTICAL SURFACES
4. CROSS RUNNERS MAY BE SECURED TO WALL 
ANGLES ON TWO ADJACENT SIDE OF ROOM ONLY
5. RUNNERS TO STOP 1/2" CLEAR OF 
PARTITIONS TYP.
6. VERIFY GRID RATING W/ MFR. 
SUPPORT WIRE SPACING SHOWN IS 
FOR 'HEAVY DUTY' CEILING GRIDS. FOR 
'MEDIUM DUTY' GRIDS USED IN SEISMIC 
HAZARD ZONES, DECREASE WIRE 
SPACING TO 3'-0" O.C.
CREATED:
PLOTTED:
PROJECT:
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOM REMODEL
C:\REVIT\temp\15041-08-Staff RR Remodel_CEN_R20_mdr.rvt
10/6/2020 3:30:57 PM
A-920
CEILING DETAILS
07/07/15
15041.08
SAN MATEO CITY HALL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
6
4
5
2
3
1
08.20.20
ISSUE FOR REVIEW
09.24.20
95% CD'S
1
10.07.20
PLAN CHECK RESPONSE
204 of 250

--- page 205 ---
DWG#
DESCRIPTION
                           DRAWING INDEX
#
ABBREVIATIONS
ELECTRICAL LEGEND
GENERAL SHEET NOTES
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
R
E
G
I
S
T
E
R
E
D
 
P
R
O
F
E
S
S
IO
N
A
L  
E
N
G
I
N
E
E
R
 
 
 
L
E
V
I
 
G
.
 
A
B
A
R
T
E
 
 
 
No. E-17622
E
L
E
C
T
R
I
C
A
L
Exp. 09/30/21
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
IA
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOMS
SAN MATEO CITY HALL RESTROOM REMODEL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
E1.1
ELECTRICAL LEGEND AND
DRAWING INDEX
NO SCALE
&nbsp;
205 of&nbsp;250

--- page 206 ---
WOMEN'S
RESTROOM
MOTHER'S
ROOM
MEN'S
RESTROOM
JANITOR'S
CLOSET
8' - 0"
8' - 0"
WOMEN'S
RESTROOM
MOTHER
ROOM
MEN'S
RESTROOM
JANITOR'S
CLOSET
L3
L3
L3
L3
L2
L3
L3
L3
L3
L3
L2
L3
L3
WOMEN'S
RESTROOM
MEN'S
RESTROOM
JANITOR'S
CLOSET
MOTHER'S
ROOM
SHEET NOTES
LUMINAIRE NOTES:
1. ALL LUMINAIRES SHALL BE DIMMABLE
LED-TYPE AND COMPATIBLE WITH THE 
LIGHTING CONTROL SYSTEM.
2. STANDARD SEQUENCE OF OPERATION FOR
LIGHTING CONTROL OF RESTROOM:
OS: AUTO ON 100%; AUTO OFF AFTER 
20MIN: CONTINUOUS DIMMING: 
STANDALONE SYSTEM IS ACCEPTABLE: 
DAY-LIGHTING CONTROL AND DEMAND
RESPONSE NOT REQUIRED.
LUMINAIRE SCHEDULE
CONDUIT PENETRATION DETAIL
3
-
NOT TO SCALE
STI SERIES SSS INTUMESCENT SEALANT 
UL 1479 
EMERGENCY BALLAST WIRING DIAGRAM
4
-
NOT TO SCALE
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
R
E
G
I
S
T
E
R
E
D
 
P
R
O
F
E
S
S
IO
N
A
L  
E
N
G
I
N
E
E
R
 
 
 
L
E
V
I
 
G
.
 
A
B
A
R
T
E
 
 
 
No. E-17622
E
L
E
C
T
R
I
C
A
L
Exp. 09/30/21
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
IA
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOMS
NORTH
SAN MATEO CITY HALL RESTROOM REMODEL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
As indicated
E2.1
 RESTROOM LIGHTING,
POWER AND SIGNAL PLANS
13.3W LED 120V
(N) LED DOWNLIGHT
MRF: INFINIUM BY SPECTRUM
PRODUCT: SGESLEDGV-15L-35K-DS10-1-BH27-AR5222GV-
(FINISH BY ARCHITECT), VERIFY DIMMING REQ. W/
BUILDING ENGINEER
L3
L3
EM
13.3W LED  WITH BATTERY DRIVER 120V
(N) LED DOWNLIGHT
MRF: INFINIUM BY SPECTRUM
PRODUCT: SGESLEDGV-15L-35K-DS10-1-EM-AR5222GV-
(FINISH BY ARCHITECT), VERIFY DIMMING REQ. W/
BUILDING ENGINEER
(N) WALL MOUNTED LED.
MRF:OXYGEN LIGHTING
PRODUCT:ADAGIO SERIES VANITY.
L2
11.9W LED  120V
&nbsp;
206 of&nbsp;250

--- page 207 ---
TITLE 24 NOTES:
A. INSTALLING CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE AS FOLLOWS:
B. PERFORM AND SUBMIT ALL ACCEPTANCE FORMS.
C. PERFORM AND SUBMIT ALL INSTALLATION FORMS.
D. PERFORM AND SUBMIT ALL VERIFICATION FORMS.
E. ALTERATION WORK DOES NOT REQUIRE AN ENTIRELY NEW OR
COMPLETE REPLACEMENTS OF THE ELECTRICAL POWER 
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS. THEREFORE AS PER 2019 TITLE 24 SECTION
141.0(b)2P, SERVICE ELECTRICAL METERING, SEPARATION OF 
ELECTRICAL CIRCUITS FOR ELECTRICAL ENERGY MONITORING, 
AND CONTROLLED RECEPTACLES ARE NOT REQUIRED.
F. ALL LUMINAIRES ARE DIMMABLE.
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
R
E
G
I
S
T
E
R
E
D
 
P
R
O
F
E
S
S
IO
N
A
L  
E
N
G
I
N
E
E
R
 
 
 
L
E
V
I
 
G
.
 
A
B
A
R
T
E
 
 
 
No. E-17622
E
L
E
C
T
R
I
C
A
L
Exp. 09/30/21
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
IA
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOMS
SAN MATEO CITY HALL RESTROOM REMODEL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
ET.1
TITLE 24 FORMS
NO SCALE
&nbsp;
207 of&nbsp;250

--- page 208 ---
FILE:
#
DATE
ISSUE
BY / CHECK
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
R
E
G
I
S
T
E
R
E
D
 
P
R
O
F
E
S
S
IO
N
A
L  
E
N
G
I
N
E
E
R
 
 
 
L
E
V
I
 
G
.
 
A
B
A
R
T
E
 
 
 
No. E-17622
E
L
E
C
T
R
I
C
A
L
Exp. 09/30/21
S
T
A
T
E
 
O
F
 
C
A
L
I
F
O
R
N
IA
Huntsman Architectural Group
50 California Street  Seventh Floor  San Francisco CA 94111
T
All drawings and written material appearing herein constitute the
original and unpublished  work of  the architect and may not be
duplicated, used or disclosed without the prior written consent of
the architect.
© 2017 Huntsman Architectural Group
WWW.HUNTSMANAG.CO
M
415.394.1212
F 415.394.1222
STAFF RESTROOMS
SAN MATEO CITY HALL RESTROOM REMODEL
330 W. 20TH AVE. SAN MATEO, CA 94402
ET.2
TITLE 24 FORMS
NO SCALE
&nbsp;
208 of&nbsp;250

--- page 209 ---
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
GENERAL NOTES
FIELD VERIFY ALL CONDITIONS
SCOPE OF WORK
DRAWING INDEX
LEGEND
AIR OUTLET SCHEDULE
CAL-GREEN COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS 
&nbsp;
209 of&nbsp;250

--- page 210 ---
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
SPECIFICATIONS - DIVISION 23
2.9
2.8
2.7
2.6
2.5
2.4
2.3
2.2
2.1
1.14
1.13
1.12
1.11
1.10
1.9
1.8
1.7
1.6
1.5
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.1
2 - MATERIALS
1 - GENERAL
Isolate ferrous from nonferrous materials in piping systems and equipment connections with dielectric unions. EPCO
Model FX high temperature gaskets.
Provide Stockham, or Nibco ball valves.  All ball valves for general use shall have EPT seats.  Valve handles, except in
ground, shall be infinite throttling with memory stop.
Fabricate ductwork of galvanized sheet metal in accordance with latest edition of the SMACNA duct manual and
ASHRAE guide.  Seal and tape all duct joints airtight.
Acoustical Lining:  Acoustical lining shall be 1" thick, coated flexible fiberglass duct liner and shall meet UL-181
requirements.  Install per manufacturer's recommendations.
Flexible Round Ducts:  UL Class I air ducts with helical support wire, scrim cloth inner liner, R-4 insulation and outer
plastic liner.  Cody/West or equal. Use only to make final connections to the air-outlets. Maximum length allowed is 5
feet.
Exhaust/ Transfer/ Return Air Ducts: 2" static pressure rating; 2,000 FPM maximum, seal Class A.
All insulation material shall meet flame spread rating of 25 and smoke developed rating of 50.
Duct insulation shall be by Owens Corning. 11
2" thick and minimum density of 1 PCF. Insulation shall incorporate
protective aluminum foil jacket.
All material in the ceiling plenum shall be plenum rated.
Provide all labor, equipment and materials that are required, to provide a complete, properly operating and safe
mechanical installation.  The extent of the work is indicated on the drawings and as described in these specifications,
shall include all that may be reasonably inferred to be required for proper execution of installation work and/or systems'
operation.
Provide cutting and patching as required for execution of work performed under this Section unless specifically provided
for, under other Sections.
Repair or replace, to the satisfaction of the Owner, any damage to work of this Section, damage caused by leaks or
breaks in systems of this Section, and damage caused by work of this Section.
Coordinate with work performed by other Sections, in order to accommodate the requirements of this Section, and to
assure adequate space and proper location for all necessary work of this project whether or not work is under this
Section.
Provide all necessary rigging equipment and manpower to set new equipment and materials in place.
Provide all seismic restraints required by code, or this specification, for all equipment, duct, pipe, and materials
furnished under this Section.  This Contractor is responsible for the design of the restraints and for proof of adequacy of
the restraints.  Equipment, ductwork, and piping shall be restrained in all directions.
Provide all labor and material required to set and adjust the installation so that it performs in accordance with the design
intent included in the drawings and these specifications.
The work installed under this Section shall conform to all applicable federal, state and local codes, regulations, and
standards.
Reasonable effort has been made to coordinate the location of equipment and materials with the structure and other
trades, it is the responsibility of this Contractor to coordinate exact requirements and locations as governed by actual
job conditions, manufacturer's recommendations etc.  Check all information and report any discrepancies to the
Architect before fabrication or purchasing any equipment and in time to avoid unnecessary work.
Provide, procure, and pay for all permits, services, meters, licenses, fees, etc., required for performance of work of this
Section.
Install equipment and materials with all working parts readily accessible for inspection, repair, and renewal.
Confer with the Owner/Architect to establish exact locations, mounting heights, and arrangements of all the finish work
prior to roughing in.
Workmanship shall be first class throughout and performed only by competent and experienced workmen in a manner
satisfactory to the Owner.  Constant supervision of the work, either by the Contractor or his competent representative,
shall be maintained.
Include all cutting and repairing necessary and required for this installation that is not covered by other trades.
Structural members shall not be cut except with the written approval of the Architect.  Repairing shall be performed by
workmen skilled in the trades involved in a manner satisfactory to the Architect.
Submit for approval shop drawings/and Equipment submittals (including controls).
Refer to and follow Building Tenant Construction Standards. If discrepancies are found, follow the more stringent
requirement.
All equipment piping, ductwork, etc. shall be braced and anchored to resist horizontal forces acting in any direction in
accordance with the latest California/ SAN MATEO Codes.
Install all piping and ductwork to best suit field conditions and coordinate with the installation work of other trades. The
drawings are diagrammatic and shall not be scaled to determine exact locations of piping or ductwork.
Coordinate ductwork, piping with structural drawings, electrical including lighting, audio visual and sprinkler system.
Provide transitions as required.
Contractor shall coordinate with architect ceiling access panels for all required fire, smoke, volume dampers and
Mechanical equipment in inaccessible ceiling as required.
Provide all miscellaneous steel, special supports and anchoring for all Mechanical equipment requiring such.
Seal all fire rated penetrations with fire retardant material as required per NFPA and CBC.
Ducts stored on the construction site shall be protected and isolated from dust contamination.
Not all existing pipes, conduits, ducts, etc. are shown on these drawings. Where existing pipes, conduits and/or ducts
which are to remain prevent installation of new work, relocate, or arrange for relocation of existing pipes, conduits
and/or ducts, to facilitate new work.
All materials and workmanship are subject to review and approval by the architect. Any portion of the work found to be
defective shall be replaced by the contractor as part of this contract at no additional cost to the owner.
Not all duct and piping transitions and/or offsets are shown. Provide transitions and/or offsets at no additional cost to
owner.
Provide all required miscellaneous steel for complete installation of systems and for support of ductwork, piping, etc.
Drawing are diagrammatic in nature and all conditions shall be contractor coordinated and verified for exact location
and sizes. The contractor is responsible to thoroughly verify all existing field conditions before submitting his/her bid.
Contractor shall provide dust covers as required to contain dust and debris within construction area and keep dust to a
minimum.
Absolute accuracy of the drawings can not be guaranteed. While every effort has been made to coordinate the location
of existing equipment, piping, etc., it is the responsibility of the contractor to coordinate the exact requirements
governed by actual job conditions.
The submission of bid proposal shall be considered as conclusive evidence that the contractor is thoroughly familiar
with the intent of the contract documents and scope of work. The contractor, prior to bidding, shall visit the job site,
check existing installations and systems related to his/her work and shall, in the bid proposal, include all labor and
material required to complete the system.
Contractor shall complete the work with minimum interference with existing systems. Any shutdown of the existing
system shall be coordinated with the general contractor and the owner's representative three weeks in advance.
All work shall be in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local codes, regulations and standards.
Contractor shall protect the equipment, duct openings, pipes, etc. to prevent dust & debris from entering during
construction.  The existing air handling system return air openings shall be protected with minimum MERV 13  rated
construction filters until the construction activity is completed and ready for balancing in accordance with CAL-Green
requirements.
3.18
3.17
3.16
3.15
3.14
3.13
3.12
3.11
3.10
3.9
3.8
3.7
3.6
3.5
3.4
3.3
3.2
3.1
3 - EXECUTION
Supports and Hangers: Use Super Strut, Unistrut, B-Line, Elcen or Grinnell hangers and structural attachments to
properly support the equipment, ductwork and piping system according to good standard practice and according to the
manufacturer's recommendations.  Minimum safety factor of 5.0.
No piping  shall have direct contact with the hanging and support system or the structure.  On pipes that are insulated,
run the insulation continuous through the hanger and provide sheet metal shields of proper length and gages under the
insulation to prevent crushing.  On uninsulated copper piping, use Stoneman "trisolator" or similar Unistrut or
Super-Strut device at each hanger or support point.
Design seismic restraints per SMACNA/PPIC "Guidelines for Seismic Restraints of Mechanical Systems and Piping
Systems", for equipment, ducts, and piping.
Provide Access door and panels whenever a piece of equipment or valve and operator is inaccessible and requires
access for maintenance, repair or adjustment. Whether shown on the drawings or not.
3URYLGHHTXLSPHQWDQGSLSLQJLGHQWLILFDWLRQODEHOLQJôOHWWHULQJRQSLSHVDQGOHWWHULQJRQHTXLSPHQW,QFOXGH
directional arrows on piping. Use permanent laminated black plastic tags with engraved white core lettering.
Manufacturer: Seton, WW Wilson or Brady.
Fire/Smoke dampers shall be installed according to state and local codes and exactly as tested by UL to develop fire
ratings.
Provide 18" x 12" minimum access doors in ductwork and furring to provide easy access to each fire damper.  Use
insulated access doors in insulated ducts.
The installation of all ductwork, louvers, dampers, etc., shall be according to the SMACNA standards.
Ducts shall be hung with galvanized 1" x 18 gauge duct straps with spacing as recommended by SMACNA or as
required by local codes, whichever is most stringent. Provide sway bracing on all ductwork in accordance with the local
codes.
Throughout the progress of the work, protect all pipe, conduit, ducts, fixtures, and equipment from intrusion by rain, dirt,
and foreign matter, and from damage of any kind.  Thoroughly clean all metallic, plastic, and painted surfaces of
equipment prior to final inspection.
Flush pipes and ducts free from foreign substances before installing valves, stops, or making final connections.
After all other work has been accomplished, clean all exposed piping, ductwork, fixtures, equipment, and supports.
Remove all debris of work of this Section from site.
All materials, parts, equipment, modifications made, and workmanship shall be guaranteed for a period of one year
from date of acceptance of the work. This guarantee is contingent upon the system being properly maintained by a
qualified mechanic familiar with this equipment and that the equipment is not abused.  Excluded is normal wear and
tear, replacement of filters and belts, and acts of God. If the manufacturer provides for a longer guarantee period, it
shall also be submitted.
Develop and provide final as-built, reproducible drawings and all O&M manuals  prior to final acceptance.
Start, Operate and Commission all systems.  Provide the services of factory trained technicians for start-up of major
equipment and all systems including but not limited to temperature controls, and heat pumps.
Air balancing shall be performed by AABC certified balancing contractor per AABC format.
Insulate all Supply and Return air ductwork per Title 24 requirements with jacketed Owens Corning insulation.
All support hangers for equipment, ductwork and piping shall be incorporate drilled anchors. Powder driven inserts are
not allowed.
During construction meet the recommended Design Approaches of SMACNA IAQ guidelines for occupied building
under construction.
No CFC equipment shall be added.
All filters shall be MERV 13.
Contractor to provide all labor and material required to complete and perform all acceptance tests as required by 2019
Title 24. Acceptance tests forms are included under Title 24 sheets. Contractor to provide additional forms as required.
Review all forms and provide cost for all acceptance tests in the base bid.
Transfer Fan shall be supported using Mason 30N spring isolators. Provide seismic bracing using sway cable.
3.19
3.20
3.21
3.22
1.15
1.16
1.17
1.18
1.19
1.20
1.21
1.22
1.23
1.24
1.25
1.26
1.27
1.28
1.29
1.30
1.31
1.32
1.33
1.34
3.23
&nbsp;
210 of&nbsp;250

--- page 211 ---
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
&nbsp;
211 of&nbsp;250

--- page 212 ---
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
&nbsp;
212 of&nbsp;250

--- page 213 ---
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
&nbsp;
213 of&nbsp;250

--- page 214 ---
PLUMBING GENERAL NOTES
DRAWING INDEX
LEGEND
ABBREVIATIONS
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
&nbsp;
214 of&nbsp;250

--- page 215 ---
PLUMBING FIXTURE CONNECTION SCHEDULE
WATER HAMMER ARRESTOR SCHEDULE
DRAIN,CLEANOUT AND TRAP PRIMER SCHEDULE
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
&nbsp;
215 of&nbsp;250

--- page 216 ---
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
&nbsp;
216 of&nbsp;250

--- page 217 ---
Amit Wadhwa & Associates
870 Market Street
(Flood Bldg) Suite 846
San Francisco, CA 94102
415.788.9999 tel
415.617.0076 fax
Engineers
20055
IN MY PROFESSIONAL JUDGEMENT, TENANT WORK
SHOWN ON THESE DOCUMENTS DOES NOT INFRINGE
UPON THE EXISTING LIFE SAFETY SYSTEM FOR THIS
BUILDING.
&nbsp;
217 of&nbsp;250

--- page 218 ---
EXHIBIT B 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS 
ARTICLE 18 - MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE  
18.01 Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract, and for five (5) years 
thereafter, insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may 
arise from or in connection with the performance of the work hereunder by the Contractor, his 
agents, representatives, employees, or subcontractors.  
18.02 Coverage shall be at least as broad as:  
A. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 covering 
CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products and completed operations, property 
damage, bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $5,000,000 
per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall 
apply separately to this project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate 
limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.   
B. 
Automobile Liability:  Insurance Services Office Form CA 0001 covering Code 1 (any auto), 
with limits no less than $5,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.  
C. 
Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, with Statutory 
Limits, and Employers’ Liability insurance with a limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury or disease.  
D. 
Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) insurance utilizing an “All Risk” (Special Perils) 
coverage form, with limits equal to the completed value of the project and no coinsurance 
penalty provisions. 
E. 
Surety Bonds as described below. 
F. 
Professional Liability (if Design/Build), with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence or 
claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
G. Contractors’ Pollution Legal Liability and/or Asbestos Legal Liability and/or Errors and 
Omissions (if project involves environmental hazards) with limits no less than $1,000,000 per 
occurrence or claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
18.03 If the contractor maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown 
above, the City requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or the higher limits 
maintained by the contractor. Any available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified 
minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be available to the City. 
18.04 Self-Insured Retentions. Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. At 
the option of the City, either: the contractor shall cause the insurer shall to reduce or eliminate 
such self-insured retentions as respects the City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers; 
or the Contractor shall provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing 
payment of losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. The 
218 of 250

--- page 219 ---
policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to provide, that the self-insured retention may be 
satisfied by either the named insured or City. 
ARTICLE 19 - OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS  
19.01 The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
A. 
The City, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts, or equipment 
furnished in connection with such work or operations and automobiles owned, leased, hired, 
or borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor. General liability coverage can be provided in 
the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 
20 10, CG 11 85 or both CG 20 10, CG 20 26, CG 20 33, or CG 20 38; and CG 20 37 forms if 
later revisions used). 
B. 
For any claims related to this project, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its officers, 
officials, employees, and volunteers. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, 
its officers, officials, employees, or volunteers shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance 
and shall not contribute with it.  
C. 
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall provide that coverage shall not be 
canceled, except with notice to the City. 
19.02 Builder’s Risk (Course of Construction) Insurance  
A. 
Contractor may submit evidence of Builder’s Risk insurance in the form of Course of 
Construction coverage. Such coverage shall name the City as a loss payee as their interest 
may appear. 
B. 
If the project does not involve new or major reconstruction, at the option of the City, an 
Installation Floater may be acceptable. For such projects, a Property Installation Floater shall 
be obtained that provides for the improvement, remodel, modification, alteration, 
conversion or adjustment to existing buildings, structures, processes, machinery and 
equipment.  The Property Installation Floater shall provide property damage coverage for 
any building, structure, machinery or equipment damaged, impaired, broken, or destroyed 
during the performance of the Work, including during transit, installation, and testing at the 
City’s site. 
19.03 Claims Made Policies 
A. 
If any coverage required is written on a claims-made coverage form:  
1. 
The retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the execution date 
of the contract or the beginning of contract work. 
2. 
Insurance must be maintained, and evidence of insurance must be provided, for at least 
five (5) years after completion of contract work.  
3. 
If coverage is cancelled or non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made 
policy form with a retroactive date prior to the contract effective, or start of work date, 
the Contractor must purchase extended reporting period coverage for a minimum of 
five (5) years after completion of contract work.  
219 of 250

--- page 220 ---
4. 
A copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for review.  
5. 
If the services involve lead-based paint or asbestos identification/remediation, the 
Contractors Pollution Liability policy shall not contain lead-based paint or asbestos 
exclusions. If the services involve mold identification/remediation, the Contractors 
Pollution Liability policy shall not contain a mold exclusion, and the definition of 
Pollution shall include microbial matter, including mold.  
19.04 Acceptability of Insurers  
A. 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a 
current A.M. Best rating of no less than A: VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.  
19.05 Waiver of Subrogation  
A. 
Contractor hereby agrees to waive rights of subrogation which any insurer of Contractor 
may acquire from Contractor by virtue of the payment of any loss. Contractor agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation. The 
Workers’ Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor of 
the City for all work performed by the Contractor, its employees, agents and subcontractors.  
19.06 Verification of Coverage  
A. 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required 
amendatory endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage 
required by this clause) and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL 
policy listing all policy endorsements to City before work begins. However, failure to obtain 
the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies 
of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, required by these specifications, 
at any time. 
19.07 Subcontractors  
A. 
Contractor shall require and verify that all subcontractors maintain insurance meeting all 
requirements stated herein, and Contractor shall ensure that City is an additional insured on 
insurance required from subcontractors. For CGL coverage, subcontractors shall provide 
coverage with a form at least as broad as CG 20 38 04 13. 
19.08 Surety Bonds.  
A. 
Contractor shall provide the following Surety Bonds: 
1. 
Performance Bond 
2. 
Payment Bond 
3. 
Maintenance Bond 
B. 
The Payment Bond and the Performance Bond shall be in a sum equal to the contract price. 
If the Performance Bond provides for a one-year warranty a separate Maintenance Bond is 
not necessary.  If the warranty period specified in the contract is for longer than one year a 
Maintenance Bond equal to 10% of the contract price is required.  Bonds shall be duly 
executed by a responsible corporate surety, authorized to issue such bonds in the State of 
California and secured through an authorized agent with an office in California. 
220 of 250

--- page 221 ---
19.09 Special Risks or Circumstances.   
A. 
City reserves the right to modify these requirements, including limits, based on the nature of 
the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other circumstances. 
 
221 of 250

--- page 222 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-6077
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 02, 2022 
SUBJECT:
480 East 4th Avenue – Grant of Easements
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to grant four easements to Pacific Gas & Electric Company on the City-owned property at 480 East 4th 
Avenue in order to install and maintain the necessary infrastructure to provide electrical service to the Kiku Crossing 
affordable housing project under construction at 480 East 4th Avenue and the public parking garage under construction at 
400 East 5th Avenue, and authorize the Mayor to execute the grant of easements in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
On August 17, 2020, the City Council approved a Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement (DDLA), with MP 
Downtown San Mateo Associates, L.P., a subsidiary of Mid Pen Housing (Mid Pen) for the development of 225 family rental 
units (Kiku Crossing) and a public parking garage at the City owned parking lots at 480 East 4th Avenue and 400 East 5th 
Avenue.
As part of the construction process, Pacific Gas & Electric Company (PG&E) needs four easements over the 480 E. 4th 
Avenue property in order to install and maintain the necessary infrastructure to provide electrical service to both the 
residential and the garage properties. The easements grant PG&E the right to excavate, construct, reconstruct, replace, 
remove, maintain, inspect and use facilities and associate equipment for public utility purposes, including, but not limited 
to, electric, gas, and PG&E communication facilities.   The easements also provide PG&E the right of way to access the 
easements over and across the land.  Although the easement language states that PG&E can install equipment for gas 
purposes, which is the standard language for all PG&E easements, only electrical infrastructure will be installed on these 
sites since the projects will not have any natural gas service to them. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The execution of these easements is necessary for the construction of the Kiku Crossing residential project and new 
parking garage and do not add any additional unforeseen costs. The City has committed $7.5 million in affordable housing 
funds and $5 million of parking in-lieu funds for the construction of this project, which are already appropriated for this 
purpose in the City’s Business Plan and Capital Improvement Plan.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City evaluated the environmental impacts and adopted a Mitigated Negative Declaration for the development of the 
parking garage and associated residential project on August 17, 2020. The execution of these easements is within the 
scope of, and is implementing, the approved project.  None of the conditions requiring additional environmental analysis 
are present and therefore the City is relying on the Mitigated Negative Declaration that was previously adopted for this 
project.  (CEQA Guidelines Section 15162.)  
222 of 250

--- page 223 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager
kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7153
223 of 250

--- page 224 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
 
GRANT OF EASEMENTS TO PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY 
480 EAST 4th AVENUE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401 (APN: 034-183-060) 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is the record owner of real property located at 480 East 4th Avenue in 
the City of San Mateo, California, APN 034-183-060; and 
 
WHEREAS, City Council approved a ground lease to MP Downtown Associates L.P. on 480 East 4th 
Avenue for the Kiku Crossing development of 225 affordable housing residential units on August 17, 2020; and 
 
WHEREAS, as part of approved project, MP Downtown Associates L.P. is also constructing a parking 
garage on behalf of the City on the adjacent City-owned property at 400 East 5th Avenue; and 
 
WHEREAS, to provide the necessary infrastructure for electrical service to both the residential building 
and parking garage, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (“PG&E”) requires four separate easements on the 480 
East 4th Avenue property; and 
 
WHEREAS,  the easements grant PG&E the right to excavate for, construct, reconstruct, replace, remove, 
maintain, inspect and use facilities and associate equipment for public utility purposes, including, but not limited 
to electric, gas, and PG&E communication facilities.   
 
WHEREAS, the City’s contracted Licensed Surveyor approved the legal description and plat of the 
proposed PG&E easements as technically correct.  
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
 
1. The City Council adopted the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) on August 17, 
2020, and the execution of these easements is in the scope of, and is implementing, the approved 
project.  
2. The City Council authorizes the Mayor to execute the PG&E Easement Deeds attached to this 
Resolution as Exhibits A, B, C, and D in substantially the form attached. 
3. The City Council hereby authorizes and directs the City Clerk to record a certified copy of this 
Resolution attested by the City Clerk under seal, with the San Mateo County recorder’s office. 
 
224 of 250

--- page 225 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND RETURN TO: 
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY 
245 Market Street, N10A, Room 1015 
P.O. Box 770000 
San Francisco, California 94177 
Location:       City of San Mateo     
Recording Fee $_____________________________ 
Document Transfer Tax $       None     
[X] This is a conveyance where the consideration and 
      Value is less than $100.00 (R&T 11911). 
[  ] Computed on Full Value of Property Conveyed, or 
[  ] Computed on Full Value Less Liens 
  & Encumbrances Remaining at Time of Sale 
[  ] Exempt from the fee per GC 27388.1 (a) (2); This 
     document is subject to Documentary Transfer Tax 
Signature of declarant or agent determining tax 
(SPACE ABOVE FOR RECORDER'S USE ONLY) 
LD# 2304-04-10038
EASEMENT DEED
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of California, 
hereinafter called Grantor, hereby grants to PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY, a 
California corporation, hereinafter called Grantee, the right from time to time to excavate for, 
construct, reconstruct, replace (of initial or any other size), remove, maintain, inspect, and use 
facilities and associated equipment for public utility purposes, including, but not limited to electric, 
gas, and PG&E communication facilities, together with a right of way therefor, on, over, and under 
the easement area as hereinafter set forth, and also ingress thereto and egress therefrom, over and 
across the lands of Grantor situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of 
California, described as follows: 
(APN 034-183-060) 
All of Block 15, as shown upon Parcel Map No. 324, filed for record February 7, 1991 
in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at page 52-53, San Mateo County Records. 
The said facilities and easement area is described as follows: 
Such underground conduits, pipes, service boxes, wires, cables, and electrical 
conductors; risers, switches, fuses and terminals; and fixtures and appurtenances 
necessary to any and all thereof, as Grantee deems necessary for the distribution of 
electric energy and communication purposes located within the parcel of land described 
as follows: 
The parcel of land described in Exhibit “A” and shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto 
and made a part hereof. 
Exhibit A
225 of 250

--- page 226 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
Grantor further grants to Grantee the right, from time to time, to trim or to cut down, without 
Grantee paying compensation, any and all trees and brush now or hereafter within said easement 
area, and shall have the further right, from time to time, to trim and cut down trees and brush along 
each side of said easement area which now or hereafter in the opinion of Grantee may interfere with 
or be a hazard to the facilities installed hereunder, or as Grantee deems necessary to comply with 
applicable state or federal regulations. 
Grantor also grants to Grantee the right to use such portion of said lands contiguous to said easement 
area as may be reasonably necessary in connection with the excavation, construction, reconstruction, 
replacement, removal, maintenance and inspection of said facilities and Grantee shall restore the 
property to its original condition and repair any damage resulting from its activities. 
Grantor hereby covenants and agrees not to place or construct, nor allow a third party to place or 
construct, any building or other structure, or store flammable substances, or drill or operate any well, 
or construct any reservoir or other obstruction within said easement area, or diminish or substantially 
add to the ground level within said easement area, or construct any fences that will interfere with the 
maintenance and operation of said facilities.   
Grantee shall be responsible for any damage within said easement area and/or such portions of said 
lands contiguous to said easement area due to Grantees activities such as excavation, construction, 
reconstruction, replacement, removal, maintenance, inspection, access, and/or use of said facilities. 
Grantee shall repair, replace, and restore in kind the said damage at Grantee’s sole expense. 
This document may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, 
but all of which, together, shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
The provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of and bind the successors and assigns of the 
respective parties hereto, and all covenants shall apply to and run with the land. 
Dated:  __________________, _______. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal 
corporation of California,   
By______________________________ 
Name: 
Title: 
I hereby certify that a resolution was adopted  
on the ____ day of _________, 20____, by the 
_____________________________________ 
authorizing the foregoing grant of easement. 
By___________________________________ 
226 of 250

--- page 227 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
State of California 
County of  
 ) 
On __________________________, before me, 
 Notary Public,  
Insert name 
personally appeared  
, who proved to me 
on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their 
signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.   
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and 
correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
 (Seal) 
Signature of Notary Public 
CAPACITY CLAIMED BY SIGNER 
[  ]  Individual(s) signing for oneself/themselves 
[  ]  Corporate Officer(s) of the above named corporation(s) 
[  ]  Trustee(s) of the above named Trust(s) 
[  ]  Partner(s) of the above named Partnership(s) 
[  ]  Attorney(s)-in-Fact of the above named Principal(s) 
[  ]  Other  
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the individual who 
signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of 
that document. 
227 of 250

--- page 228 ---
February 17, 2022
BKF No. 20181271
Page 1 of 1
Exhibit “A”
Legal Description
PG&E EASEMENT
Lands of the City of San Mateo
An easement over real property, situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California,
and being a portion of Block 15, as shown on that certain Parcel Map, entitled Parcel Map No. 324, recorded
February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 and 53, official records of San Mateo County,
more particularly described as follows:
BEGINNING at the Easterly most corner of Block 15, as shown on the above-referenced Parcel Map, said
corner also being the intersection of the Southwesterly right of way line of South Claremont Street and the
Northwesterly right of way line of East 5th Avenue;
Thence along said right of way line, South 48°30’30” West, 26.88 feet;
Thence leaving said right of way line, North 41°31’30” West, 6.31 feet;
Thence along a parallel line with said right of way line North 48°30’30” East, 26.88 feet to an angle point;
Thence South 41°31’30” East, 6.31 feet to the said intersection and the POINT OF BEGINNING.
Containing an area of 170 square feet, more or less.
Basis of Bearings: South 48°30’30” West along the Northwesterly right of way line of E. 5 th Ave. as shown
on the above-referenced Parcel Map recorded in Book 64 of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 & 53, San Mateo
County Records.
As shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto and made a part hereof.
This legal description was prepared by me or under my direct supervision in conformance with the
requirements of the Professional Land Surveyors Act.
__________________________
David Darling, L.S. 7625
BKF Engineers
___02-17-2022______________
Dated
(Easement 4 of 5)
228 of 250

--- page 229 ---
&nbsp;
229 of&nbsp;250

--- page 230 ---
Mathematical Closure Calculations 
PG&E Easement 
Lands of City of San Mateo 
San Mateo, Ca.  
January 12, 2022 
BKF No. 20181271 
PG&E Easement 
North: 4,835.1082' 
East: 9,601.5647' 
Line 
Course: S48° 30' 30"W 
Length: 26.88' 
North: 4,817.2999' 
East: 9,581.4302' 
Line 
Course: N41° 31' 30"W 
Length: 6.31' 
North: 4,822.0240' 
East: 9,577.2470' 
Line 
Course: N48° 30' 30"E 
Length: 26.88' 
North: 4,839.8323' 
East: 9,597.3815' 
Line 
Course: S41° 31' 30"E 
Length: 6.31' 
North: 4,835.1082' 
East: 9,601.5647' 
Perimeter: 66.412' 
Area: 170 Sq Ft 0.004 Ac. 
Error Closure: 0.000' 
Course: N0° 00' 00.00"E 
Error North: 0.0000' 
East: 0.0000' 
Precision 1: 66,412,000.000' 
230 of 250

--- page 231 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND RETURN TO: 
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY 
245 Market Street, N10A, Room 1015 
P.O. Box 770000 
San Francisco, California 94177 
Location:       City of San Mateo     
Recording Fee $_____________________________ 
Document Transfer Tax $       None     
[X] This is a conveyance where the consideration and 
      Value is less than $100.00 (R&T 11911). 
[  ] Computed on Full Value of Property Conveyed, or 
[  ] Computed on Full Value Less Liens 
  & Encumbrances Remaining at Time of Sale 
[  ] Exempt from the fee per GC 27388.1 (a) (2); This 
     document is subject to Documentary Transfer Tax 
Signature of declarant or agent determining tax 
(SPACE ABOVE FOR RECORDER'S USE ONLY) 
LD# 2304-04-10039
EASEMENT DEED
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of California, 
hereinafter called Grantor, hereby grants to PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY, a 
California corporation, hereinafter called Grantee, the right from time to time to excavate for, 
construct, reconstruct, replace (of initial or any other size), remove, maintain, inspect, and use 
facilities and associated equipment for public utility purposes, including, but not limited to electric, 
gas, and PG&E communication facilities, together with a right of way therefor, on, over, and under 
the easement area as hereinafter set forth, and also ingress thereto and egress therefrom, over and 
across the lands of Grantor situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of 
California, described as follows: 
(APN 034-183-060) 
All of Block 15, as shown upon Parcel Map No. 324, filed for record February 7, 1991 
in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at page 52-53, San Mateo County Records. 
The said facilities and easement area is described as follows: 
Such underground conduits, pipes, service boxes, wires, cables, and electrical 
conductors; risers, switches, fuses and terminals; and fixtures and appurtenances 
necessary to any and all thereof, as Grantee deems necessary for the distribution of 
electric energy and communication purposes located within the parcel of land described 
as follows: 
The parcel of land described in Exhibit “A” and shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto 
and made a part hereof. 
Exhibit B
231 of 250

--- page 232 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
Grantor further grants to Grantee the right, from time to time, to trim or to cut down, without 
Grantee paying compensation, any and all trees and brush now or hereafter within said easement 
area, and shall have the further right, from time to time, to trim and cut down trees and brush along 
each side of said easement area which now or hereafter in the opinion of Grantee may interfere with 
or be a hazard to the facilities installed hereunder, or as Grantee deems necessary to comply with 
applicable state or federal regulations. 
Grantor also grants to Grantee the right to use such portion of said lands contiguous to said easement 
area as may be reasonably necessary in connection with the excavation, construction, reconstruction, 
replacement, removal, maintenance and inspection of said facilities and Grantee shall restore the 
property to its original condition and repair any damage resulting from its activities. 
Grantor hereby covenants and agrees not to place or construct, nor allow a third party to place or 
construct, any building or other structure, or store flammable substances, or drill or operate any well, 
or construct any reservoir or other obstruction within said easement area, or diminish or substantially 
add to the ground level within said easement area, or construct any fences that will interfere with the 
maintenance and operation of said facilities.   
Grantee shall be responsible for any damage within said easement area and/or such portions of said 
lands contiguous to said easement area due to Grantees activities such as excavation, construction, 
reconstruction, replacement, removal, maintenance, inspection, access, and/or use of said facilities. 
Grantee shall repair, replace, and restore in kind the said damage at Grantee’s sole expense. 
This document may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, 
but all of which, together, shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
The provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of and bind the successors and assigns of the 
respective parties hereto, and all covenants shall apply to and run with the land. 
Dated:  __________________, _______. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal 
corporation of California,   
By______________________________ 
Name: 
Title: 
I hereby certify that a resolution was adopted  
on the ____ day of _________, 20____, by the 
_____________________________________ 
authorizing the foregoing grant of easement. 
By___________________________________ 
232 of 250

--- page 233 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
State of California 
County of  
 ) 
On __________________________, before me, 
 Notary Public,  
Insert name 
personally appeared  
, who proved to me 
on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their 
signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.   
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and 
correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
 (Seal) 
Signature of Notary Public 
CAPACITY CLAIMED BY SIGNER 
[  ]  Individual(s) signing for oneself/themselves 
[  ]  Corporate Officer(s) of the above named corporation(s) 
[  ]  Trustee(s) of the above named Trust(s) 
[  ]  Partner(s) of the above named Partnership(s) 
[  ]  Attorney(s)-in-Fact of the above named Principal(s) 
[  ]  Other  
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the individual who 
signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of 
that document. 
233 of 250

--- page 234 ---
February 17, 2022 
BKF No. 20181271 
 Page 1 of 1 
Exhibit “A” 
Legal Description 
PG&E EASEMENT 
Lands of the City of San Mateo 
An easement over real property, situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, 
and being a portion of Block 15, as shown on that certain Parcel Map, entitled Parcel Map No. 324, recorded 
February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 and 53, official records of San Mateo County, 
more particularly described as follows: 
COMMENCING at the Easterly most corner of Block 15, as shown on the above-referenced Parcel Map, 
said corner also being the intersection of the Southwesterly right of way line of South Claremont Street and 
the Northwesterly right of way line of East 5th Avenue; 
Thence leaving said Easterly most corner, and along said Southwesterly right of way line, North 41°31’30” 
West, 88.04 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING; 
Thence leaving said right of way line, South 48°30’30” West, 6.90 feet; 
Thence along a line parallel with said right of way line, North 41°31’30” West, 16.50 feet; 
Thence North 48°30’30” East, 6.90 feet to said right of way line; 
Thence along said right of way line South 41°29’30” East, 16.50’ feet to the TRUE POINT OF 
BEGINNING. 
Containing an area of 114 square feet, more or less. 
Basis of Bearings: South 48°30’30” West along the Northwesterly right of way line of E. 5th Ave. as shown 
on the above-referenced Parcel Map recorded in Book 64 of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 & 53, San Mateo 
County Records. 
As shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto and made a part hereof. 
This legal description was prepared by me or under my direct supervision in conformance with the 
requirements of the Professional Land Surveyors Act. 
__________________________ 
David Darling, L.S. 7625 
BKF Engineers 
___02-17-2022______________  
Dated 
(Easement 5 of 5)
234 of 250

--- page 235 ---
&nbsp;
235 of&nbsp;250

--- page 236 ---
Mathematical Closure Calculations 
PG&E Easement 
Lands of City of San Mateo 
San Mateo, Ca. 
January 12, 2022 
BKF No. 20181271 
PG&E Easement 
North: 4,906.1100' 
East: 9,568.3565' 
Line 
Course: S48° 30' 30"W 
Length: 6.90' 
North: 4,901.5387' 
East: 9,563.1880' 
Line 
Course: N41° 31' 30"W 
Length: 16.50' 
North: 4,913.8917' 
East: 9,552.2494' 
Line 
Course: N48° 30' 30"E 
Length: 6.90' 
North: 4,918.4630' 
East: 9,557.4179' 
Line 
Course: S41° 31' 30”E 
Length: 16.50' 
North: 4,906.1100' 
East: 9,568.3565' 
Perimeter: 46.800' 
Area: 114 Sq Ft 0.003 Ac. 
Error Closure: 0.000' 
Course: N0° 00' 00.00"E 
Error North: 0.0000' 
East: 0.0000' 
Precision 1: 46,800,000.000' 
236 of 250

--- page 237 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND RETURN TO: 
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY 
245 Market Street, N10A, Room 1015 
P.O. Box 770000 
San Francisco, California 94177 
Location:       City of San Mateo     
Recording Fee $_____________________________ 
Document Transfer Tax $       None     
[X] This is a conveyance where the consideration and 
      Value is less than $100.00 (R&T 11911). 
[  ] Computed on Full Value of Property Conveyed, or 
[  ] Computed on Full Value Less Liens 
  & Encumbrances Remaining at Time of Sale 
[  ] Exempt from the fee per GC 27388.1 (a) (2); This 
     document is subject to Documentary Transfer Tax 
Signature of declarant or agent determining tax 
(SPACE ABOVE FOR RECORDER'S USE ONLY) 
LD# 2304-04-10040
EASEMENT DEED
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of California, 
hereinafter called Grantor, hereby grants to PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY, a 
California corporation, hereinafter called Grantee, the right from time to time to excavate for, 
construct, reconstruct, replace (of initial or any other size), remove, maintain, inspect, and use 
facilities and associated equipment for public utility purposes, including, but not limited to electric, 
gas, and PG&E communication facilities, together with a right of way therefor, on, over, and under 
the easement area as hereinafter set forth, and also ingress thereto and egress therefrom, over and 
across the lands of Grantor situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of 
California, described as follows: 
(APN 034-183-060) 
All of Block 15, as shown upon Parcel Map No. 324, filed for record February 7, 1991 
in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at page 52-53, San Mateo County Records. 
The said facilities and easement area is described as follows: 
Such underground conduits, pipes, service boxes, wires, cables, and electrical 
conductors; risers, switches, fuses and terminals; and fixtures and appurtenances 
necessary to any and all thereof, as Grantee deems necessary for the distribution of 
electric energy and communication purposes located within the parcel of land described 
as follows: 
The parcel of land described in Exhibit “A” and shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto 
and made a part hereof. 
Exhibit C
237 of 250

--- page 238 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
Grantor further grants to Grantee the right, from time to time, to trim or to cut down, without 
Grantee paying compensation, any and all trees and brush now or hereafter within said easement 
area, and shall have the further right, from time to time, to trim and cut down trees and brush along 
each side of said easement area which now or hereafter in the opinion of Grantee may interfere with 
or be a hazard to the facilities installed hereunder, or as Grantee deems necessary to comply with 
applicable state or federal regulations. 
Grantor also grants to Grantee the right to use such portion of said lands contiguous to said easement 
area as may be reasonably necessary in connection with the excavation, construction, reconstruction, 
replacement, removal, maintenance and inspection of said facilities and Grantee shall restore the 
property to its original condition and repair any damage resulting from its activities. 
Grantor hereby covenants and agrees not to place or construct, nor allow a third party to place or 
construct, any building or other structure, or store flammable substances, or drill or operate any well, 
or construct any reservoir or other obstruction within said easement area, or diminish or substantially 
add to the ground level within said easement area, or construct any fences that will interfere with the 
maintenance and operation of said facilities.   
Grantee shall be responsible for any damage within said easement area and/or such portions of said 
lands contiguous to said easement area due to Grantees activities such as excavation, construction, 
reconstruction, replacement, removal, maintenance, inspection, access, and/or use of said facilities. 
Grantee shall repair, replace, and restore in kind the said damage at Grantee’s sole expense. 
This document may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, 
but all of which, together, shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
The provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of and bind the successors and assigns of the 
respective parties hereto, and all covenants shall apply to and run with the land. 
Dated:  __________________, _______. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal 
corporation of California,   
By______________________________ 
Name: 
Title: 
I hereby certify that a resolution was adopted  
on the ____ day of _________, 20____, by the 
_____________________________________ 
authorizing the foregoing grant of easement. 
By___________________________________ 
238 of 250

--- page 239 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
State of California 
County of  
 
 
 
 
 ) 
 
 
On __________________________, before me,  
 
 
 
 
 
     Notary Public,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insert name 
personally appeared  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, who proved to me 
on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their 
signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.   
 
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and 
correct. 
 
 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (Seal) 
Signature of Notary Public 
 
CAPACITY CLAIMED BY SIGNER 
 
[  ]  Individual(s) signing for oneself/themselves 
 
[  ]  Corporate Officer(s) of the above named corporation(s) 
 
[  ]  Trustee(s) of the above named Trust(s) 
 
[  ]  Partner(s) of the above named Partnership(s) 
 
[  ]  Attorney(s)-in-Fact of the above named Principal(s) 
 
[  ]  Other  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the individual who 
signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of 
that document. 
239 of 250

--- page 240 ---
February 17, 2022
BKF No. 20181271
Page 1 of 1
Exhibit “A”
Legal Description
PG&E EASEMENT
Lands of the City of San Mateo
An easement over real property, situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California,
and being a portion of Block 15, as shown on that certain Parcel Map, entitled Parcel Map No. 324, recorded
February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 and 53, official records of San Mateo County,
more particularly described as follows:
COMMENCING at the Easterly most corner of Block 15, as shown on the above-referenced Parcel Map,
said corner also being the intersection of the Southwesterly right of way line of South Claremont Street and
the Northwesterly right of way line of East 5th Avenue;
Thence leaving said Easterly most corner, and along said Northwesterly right of way line, South 48°30’30”
West, 26.88 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence along said right of way line, South 48°30’30” West, 97.94 feet;
Thence leaving said right of way line, North 41°29’30” West, 9.82 feet;
Thence along a line parallel with said right of way line, North 48°30’30” East, 86.94 feet;
Thence South 41°29’30” East, 3.51 feet;
Thence along a line parallel with said right of way line, North 48°30’30” East, 11.00 feet;
Thence South 41°29’30” East, 6.31 feet to said right of way line and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
Containing an area of 923 square feet, more or less.
Basis of Bearings: South 48°30’30” West along the Northwesterly right of way line of E. 5 th Ave. as shown
on the above-referenced Parcel Map recorded in Book 64 of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 & 53, San Mateo
County Records.
As shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto and made a part hereof.
This legal description was prepared by me or under my direct supervision in conformance with the
requirements of the Professional Land Surveyors Act.
__________________________
David Darling, L.S. 7625
BKF Engineers
___02-17-2022______________
Dated
(Easement 3 of 5)
240 of 250

--- page 241 ---
&nbsp;
241 of&nbsp;250

--- page 242 ---
Mathematical Closure Calculations 
PG&E Easement 
Lands of City of San Mateo 
San Mateo, Ca. 
January 12, 2022 
BKF NO. 20181271 
PG&E Easement 
North: 4,863.4533' 
East: 9,651.3241' 
Line 
Course: S48° 30' 30"W 
Length: 97.94' 
North: 4,798.5670' 
East: 9,577.9619' 
Line 
Course: N41° 29' 30"W 
Length: 9.82' 
North: 4,805.9227' 
East: 9,571.4560' 
Line 
Course: N48° 30' 30"E 
Length: 86.94' 
North: 4,863.5214' 
East: 9,636.5786' 
Line 
Course: S41° 29' 30"E 
Length: 3.51' 
North: 4,860.8922' 
East: 9,638.9040' 
Line 
Course: N48° 30' 30"E 
Length: 11.00' 
North: 4,868.1798' 
East: 9,647.1436' 
Line 
Course: S41° 29' 30"E 
Length: 6.31' 
North: 4,863.4533' 
East: 9,651.3240' 
Perimeter: 215.520' 
Area: 923 Sq Ft 0.021 Ac. 
Error Closure: 0.000' 
Course: N90° 00' 00.00"W 
Error North: 0.0000' 
East: -0.0001' 
Precision 1: 2,155,200.015' 
242 of 250

--- page 243 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND RETURN TO: 
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY 
245 Market Street, N10A, Room 1015 
P.O. Box 770000 
San Francisco, California 94177 
Location:       City of San Mateo     
Recording Fee $_____________________________ 
Document Transfer Tax $       None     
[X] This is a conveyance where the consideration and 
      Value is less than $100.00 (R&T 11911). 
[  ] Computed on Full Value of Property Conveyed, or 
[  ] Computed on Full Value Less Liens 
  & Encumbrances Remaining at Time of Sale 
[  ] Exempt from the fee per GC 27388.1 (a) (2); This 
     document is subject to Documentary Transfer Tax 
Signature of declarant or agent determining tax 
(SPACE ABOVE FOR RECORDER'S USE ONLY) 
LD# 2304-04-10041
EASEMENT DEED
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation of California, 
hereinafter called Grantor, hereby grants to PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY, a 
California corporation, hereinafter called Grantee, the right from time to time to excavate for, 
construct, reconstruct, replace (of initial or any other size), remove, maintain, inspect, and use 
facilities and associated equipment for public utility purposes, including, but not limited to electric, 
gas, and PG&E communication facilities, together with a right of way therefor, on, over, and under 
the easement area as hereinafter set forth, and also ingress thereto and egress therefrom, over and 
across the lands of Grantor situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of 
California, described as follows: 
(APN 034-183-060) 
All of Block 15, as shown upon Parcel Map No. 324, filed for record February 7, 1991 
in Book 64 of Parcel Maps at page 52-53, San Mateo County Records. 
The said facilities and easement area is described as follows: 
Such underground conduits, pipes, service boxes, wires, cables, and electrical 
conductors; risers, switches, fuses and terminals; and fixtures and appurtenances 
necessary to any and all thereof, as Grantee deems necessary for the distribution of 
electric energy and communication purposes located within the parcel of land described 
as follows: 
The parcel of land described in Exhibit “A” and shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto 
and made a part hereof. 
Exhibit D
243 of 250

--- page 244 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
 
 
Grantor further grants to Grantee the right, from time to time, to trim or to cut down, without 
Grantee paying compensation, any and all trees and brush now or hereafter within said easement 
area, and shall have the further right, from time to time, to trim and cut down trees and brush along 
each side of said easement area which now or hereafter in the opinion of Grantee may interfere with 
or be a hazard to the facilities installed hereunder, or as Grantee deems necessary to comply with 
applicable state or federal regulations. 
 
Grantor also grants to Grantee the right to use such portion of said lands contiguous to said easement 
area as may be reasonably necessary in connection with the excavation, construction, reconstruction, 
replacement, removal, maintenance and inspection of said facilities and Grantee shall restore the 
property to its original condition and repair any damage resulting from its activities. 
 
Grantor hereby covenants and agrees not to place or construct, nor allow a third party to place or 
construct, any building or other structure, or store flammable substances, or drill or operate any well, 
or construct any reservoir or other obstruction within said easement area, or diminish or substantially 
add to the ground level within said easement area, or construct any fences that will interfere with the 
maintenance and operation of said facilities.   
 
Grantee shall be responsible for any damage within said easement area and/or such portions of said 
lands contiguous to said easement area due to Grantees activities such as excavation, construction, 
reconstruction, replacement, removal, maintenance, inspection, access, and/or use of said facilities. 
Grantee shall repair, replace, and restore in kind the said damage at Grantee’s sole expense. 
 
This document may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, 
but all of which, together, shall constitute one and the same instrument. 
 
The provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of and bind the successors and assigns of the 
respective parties hereto, and all covenants shall apply to and run with the land. 
 
Dated:  __________________, _______. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal 
corporation of California,   
 
 
 
By______________________________ 
Name: 
Title 
 
I hereby certify that a resolution was adopted  
on the ____ day of _________, 20____, by the 
_____________________________________ 
authorizing the foregoing grant of easement. 
By___________________________________ 
244 of 250

--- page 245 ---
Utility Distribution Easement  (02/2020) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
State of California 
County of  
 
 
 
 
 ) 
 
 
On __________________________, before me,  
 
 
 
 
 
     Notary Public,  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insert name 
personally appeared  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, who proved to me 
on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and 
acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their 
signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.   
 
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is true and 
correct. 
 
 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 (Seal) 
Signature of Notary Public 
 
CAPACITY CLAIMED BY SIGNER 
 
[  ]  Individual(s) signing for oneself/themselves 
 
[  ]  Corporate Officer(s) of the above named corporation(s) 
 
[  ]  Trustee(s) of the above named Trust(s) 
 
[  ]  Partner(s) of the above named Partnership(s) 
 
[  ]  Attorney(s)-in-Fact of the above named Principal(s) 
 
[  ]  Other  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the individual who 
signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of 
that document. 
245 of 250

--- page 246 ---
February 17, 2022
BKF No. 20181271
 Page 1 of 1
Exhibit “A”
Legal Description
PG&E EASEMENT
Lands of the City of San Mateo
An easement over real property, situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California,
and being a portion of Block 15, as shown on that certain Parcel Map, entitled Parcel Map No. 324, recorded
February 7, 1991 in Book 64 of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 and 53, official records of San Mateo County,
more particularly described as follows:
COMMENCING at the Easterly most corner of Block 15, as shown on the above-referenced Parcel Map,
said corner also being the intersection of the Southwesterly right of way line of South Claremont Street and
the Northwesterly right of way line of East 5th Avenue;
Thence leaving said Easterly most corner, and along said Northwesterly right of way line, South 48°30’30”
West, 124.82 feet to the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence along said right of way line, South 48°30’30” West, 41.24 feet;
Thence leaving said right of way line, North 41°29’30” West, 6.17 feet;
Thence North 15°07’47” East, 6.63 feet;
Thence along a line parallel with said right of way line, North 48°30’30” East, 35.70 feet to an angle point;
Thence South 41°29’30” East, 9.82 feet to said right of way line and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING.
Containing an area of 395 square feet, more or less.
Basis of Bearings: South 48°30’30” West along the Northwesterly right of way line of E. 5 th Ave. as shown
on the above-referenced Parcel Map recorded in Book 64 of Parcel Maps, at Pages 52 & 53, San Mateo
County Records.
As shown on Exhibit “B” attached hereto and made a part hereof.
This legal description was prepared by me or under my direct supervision in conformance with the
requirements of the Professional Land Surveyors Act.
__________________________
David Darling, L.S. 7625
BKF Engineers
___02-17-2022______________
Dated
(Easement 2 of 5)
246 of 250

--- page 247 ---
&nbsp;
247 of&nbsp;250

--- page 248 ---
Mathematical Closure Calculations  
 
PG&E Easement 
 
 
Lands of City of San Mateo  
 
 
San Mateo, Ca. 
 
  
January 12, 2022 
PG&E Easement  
 
BKF NO. 20181271 
  
    
  
North: 4,885.04' 
East: 9,488.59' 
Line 
Course: S48° 30' 30"W 
Length: 41.24' 
  
North: 4,857.7146' 
East: 9,457.6951' 
Line 
Course: N41° 29' 30"W 
Length: 6.17' 
  
North: 4,862.3363' 
East: 9,453.6074' 
Line 
Course: N15° 07' 47"E 
Length: 6.63' 
  
North: 4,868.7404' 
East: 9,455.3389' 
Line 
Course: N48° 30' 30"E 
Length: 35.70' 
  
North: 4,892.3920' 
East: 9,482.0801' 
Line 
Course: S41° 29' 30"E 
Length: 9.820' 
  
North: 4,885.0363' 
East: 9,488.59' 
  
  
Perimeter: 99.564' 
Area: 394.87 Sq Ft 0.009 Ac. 
Error Closure: 0.000' 
Course: S0° 00' 00.00"E 
Error North: -0.0003' 
East: 0.0000' 
Precision 1: 331,879.999' 
  
 
 
248 of 250

--- page 249 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-6099
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
May 02, 2022 
SUBJECT:
COVID-19 Declaration of Emergency – Termination 
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm the decision to allow the 
City’s declaration of emergency to lapse as of April 30, 2022.
BACKGROUND:
On March 4, 2020, the Governor proclaimed a state of emergency in response to the outbreak of respiratory illness due to 
a novel coronavirus (COVID-19). As a consequence of this proclamation the City Manager, acting as the City’s Director of 
Emergency Services, was authorized to make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably related to the 
protection of life and property as affected by such emergency. In accordance with Government Code Section 8558(c), the 
City Council declared a local health emergency on March 16, 2020. Per Government Code Section 8630(c), the City Council 
is required to review the need for continuing the local emergency at least once every 60 days until the City Council 
terminates the declaration of local emergency. 
In addition to positioning the City for potential mutual aid and cost recovery opportunities, the emergency proclamation 
also provides the City Manager broader authority to be able to expeditiously address issues related to the emergency. 
With that said, actions taken by the City Manager outside of the general authority of the duties provided for in the City 
Charter are subject to confirmation by Council as soon as practicable. 
While the State’s emergency declaration is still in effect and the City is still addressing pandemic-related issues, at this 
point in the pandemic staff believes the local declaration of emergency, which lapsed on April 30th, does not need to be 
renewed.  It is expected that any further pandemic-related operational adjustments will be able to be made under the 
general authority of the City Manager’s duties as provided for in the City Charter.  Should operational adjustments be 
needed beyond what is permitted under the City Manager’s authority, those adjustments can be brought for Council 
consideration at regularly-scheduled meetings.
There are two existing Council actions that are impacted by allowing the emergency declaration to lapse.  The first is that 
the rents for tenants at City properties had been reduced to 50% of the standard rent during the emergency proclamation.  
With the end of the emergency proclamation, rents will go back up to the standard amount starting May 1st.  Tenants have 
been made aware of this situation.  The second impact is related to Emergency Ordinance No. 2020-11.  This ordinance 
imposed a COVID-19 related moratorium on evictions, which remained in effect until September 30, 2020.  The ordinance 
also stated that the tenant’s obligation to pay any unpaid rent from this moratorium period would be deferred until 12 
months after the emergency proclamation ended, beginning with an initial six-month period than can be extended for 
another six months with payment of a percentage of deferred rent, as specified.  As such, the lapsing of the emergency 
proclamation means that any unpaid rent from the original moratorium period would need to be fully repaid no later than 
249 of 250

--- page 250 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
April 30, 2023.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving this informational report. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - None
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
250 of 250