source: packet.pdf
sha256: 4eaeea7166d559f013f015778228c32b344e204fee9dca94120295fd7e68bbe3
pages: 21
ocr_pages: 4
---
--- page 1 ---
COUNCIL MEMBERS

Rick Bonilla, Mayor

Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals

Amourence Lee

Eric Rodriguez

CITY OF SAN MATEO

City Council Special Meeting
August 15, 2022

5:30 PM

City Hall Conference Room C
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street

THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM — SEE CODES BELOW. PUBLIC
COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.

To join via Zoom — click here: August 15, 2022

To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Webinar ID: 884 3370 2668 Passcode: 938003

CALL TO ORDER
Roll Call

STUDY SESSION

The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.

1. Tenant Protection Policies Work Program

Provide direction on Tenant Protection policies to be incorporated into 2022-23 Housing Division work program.

2. Solid Waste Rate Setting for 2023

Receive information and provide feedback on potential solid waste rates and restructuring for 2023.

ADJOURNMENT

AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/) . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of
the agenda will be made part of the official record.

WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8a.m.-5 p.m.

WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.

1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3971/Agendas-Minutes-Public-Meeting-
Portal)

2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo (https://www.youtube.com/user/CityofSanMateo)

3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream (https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-
San-Mateo-Live-Stream)

PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK

1 of 21


--- page 2 ---
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 21

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 10-3133
File ID: 22-6445
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
August 15, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Tenant Protection Policies Work Program
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction on Tenant Protection policies to be incorporated into 2022-23 Housing Division work program.
BACKGROUND:
On April 4, 2022, the City Council adopted its Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2022-23. Among the adopted objectives is 
objective number 30: Explore policies to strengthen AB1482 Tenant Protection Act. The Work Plan and Expected 
Deliverables for this objective are to conduct outreach to tenant and landlord groups to identify issues related to AB1482 
provisions, as well as to survey other programs and propose revisions for Council consideration. Staff is seeking Council 
direction on specific tenant protection policies to be prioritized for consideration in the 2022-23 Housing Division work 
program.
Assembly Bill 1482
In January 2020, the State enacted the California Tenant Protection Act (AB1482). AB 1482 limits rent increases statewide 
to five percent per year, plus any rise in the consumer price index, which cannot exceed 10%. AB1482 does not apply to 
cities which have their own rent control ordinances, such as Oakland and San Francisco. San Mateo does not have a rent 
control ordinance.
In addition to rent increase limits, AB1482 provides some additional tenant protections, such as implementing “Just Cause” 
eviction protections for covered tenants who have lived in their unit for at least 12 months, or 24 months if a new tenant is 
added. With “Just Cause” evictions, landlords/owners need a valid reason to evict a tenant. There are primarily two 
categories of evictions: At-Fault and No-Fault evictions.  At-Fault evictions include nonpayment of rent, breach of material 
lease term, criminal activity, and using the unit for an unlawful purpose. No-Fault evictions include owner or family 
member intending to occupy the unit, compliance with a government court order that requires vacancy, and the intent to 
demolish or substantially remodel the unit, with permits. In the case of a No-Fault eviction, the landlord is responsible for 
paying relocation equal to one month’s rent.
AB1482 does not apply to all housing types and does exempt some housing types, including: new housing with a certificate 
of occupancy within the past 15 years; government subsidized or below-market rate housing; single-family homes or 
condos with no corporate ownership; duplexes – if the owner lives in the other unit; college dorms; mobile homes and RVs 
in a mobile home park that are owned by the occupant; and short-term stay hotels, motels, and hostels.
Although AB1482 does provide some statewide tenant protections, there are opportunities to strengthen these 
protections at the local level. Apart from the protections offered by AB1482, the City can enact its own tenant protection 
ordinances, if the ordinance is more protective than State law. A local relocation ordinance is more protective when it 
3 of 21

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
includes just cause protections consistent with AB1482 and further limits the reasons for terminating a residential tenancy, 
provides higher relocation assistance amounts, or provides additional tenant protections not otherwise prohibited by law. 
Measure Q
Prior to AB1482, Measure Q was initiated by the citizens of San Mateo as a charter amendment and appeared on the 
ballot on November 8, 2016. Measure Q would have established a rent control commission and policies, including limiting 
annual rent increases, and would have required a landlord to have just cause to remove a tenant. Landlords would have 
been required to pay relocation assistance under certain circumstances. The rent regulations would have applied to multi-
family rental units with an initial certificate of occupancy issued before February 1, 1995. They would not have applied to 
single family homes, condominiums, owner-occupied duplexes or secondary dwelling units, hotels, hospitals, certain 
nonprofits, dormitories, or governmental facilities. The Measure required a simple majority vote to pass and was defeated 
with 24,073 (59.99%) “no” votes and 16,053 (40.01%) “yes” votes. Since the defeat of Measure Q, AB1482 has established 
statewide tenant protections such as prohibiting evictions without just cause and limiting rent increases, as specified in 
this report.  
Possible Tenant Protection Policies
Possible opportunities to strengthen tenant protection measures found in AB1482 are related to relocation, 
documentation, and right to return policy in no-fault eviction cases. Some policy options that may be considered are 
further described below, including the establishment of a rental registry, which is not a component of AB1482. The 
possible tenant protection policies noted below are a menu of options and do not need to be considered as an entire 
package. Also included are general expected timelines for completion, when considered with other Housing work plan and 
general priorities.
1.
Just Cause Eviction Policy
Adopt a just cause eviction policy and extend AB1482 provisions to require tenant relocation payments for No 
Fault evictions for those tenants with less than one year of tenure. Under AB1482, No Fault tenant relocation 
payments only apply to renter households who have established 12 months of tenancy.
Resources Needed: 
•
Staff time to research options and best practices, including meeting with staff from other jurisdictions that 
have implemented a just cause eviction policy. 
•
Community engagement activities, including advertising, translation services and venue rental (if 
applicable).
2.
Relocation Payments
Expand relocation payments to three months to align with the City’s existing tenant relocation ordinance covering 
displacement due to demolition and condo conversion. Under AB1482, relocation payment is equal to one 
month’s rent.
Resources Needed: 
•
Staff time to research options and best practices, including establishing a mechanism for enforcement. 
•
Community engagement activities, including advertising, translation services and venue rental (if 
applicable).
3.
Renovation-related Evictions
Limit renovation-related evictions by requiring that landlords obtain building permits before issuing an eviction 
notice. AB1482 permits no-fault evictions for a substantial remodel. A substantial remodel does require a permit; 
however, AB 1482 does not require a property owner to obtain a building permit prior to issuing an eviction 
notice.
4 of 21

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Resources: 
•
Staff time to research options and best practices, including establishing a mechanism for enforcement
•
Meetings with other jurisdictions that have implemented similar policies. 
•
Community engagement activities, including advertising, translation services and venue rental (if 
applicable).
4.
Right to Return Policy
Establish a right to return for tenants affected by renovation-related evictions at the new increased rent. AB1482 
does not require that the landlord give the tenant affected by renovation-related evictions the right to return, 
either at the previous rent or the new increased rent. 
Resources: 
•
Staff time to research options and best practices, including establishing a mechanism for enforcement
•
Meetings with other jurisdictions that have implemented similar policies. 
•
Community engagement activities, including advertising, translation services and venue rental (if 
applicable).
5.
Rental Registry
Establish a means for collecting more rental housing data through the implementation of a rental registry. The 
rental registry could be a means for tracking rents and evictions citywide. Such data could provide valuable 
information that can assist in formulating new policies. However, there may be challenges in collecting data, 
addressing landlord/tenant privacy concerns, determining whether to make reporting mandatory, and if so, how 
to enforce. 
Resources: 
•
Staff time to research options and best practices, including establishing a mechanism for enforcement
•
Meetings with other jurisdictions that have implemented similar policies. 
•
Community engagement activities, including advertising, translation services and venue rental (if 
applicable).
Staff anticipates that each of these measures would take approximately 12 months to fully implement, and that assumes 
that these measures would be implemented sequentially and not concurrently given current resources and other work 
plan priorities.  Alternatively, staff could do outreach to tenant and landlord groups regarding all of these provisions, as 
well as research and survey for similar programs in other jurisdictions, and then return to Council for implementation 
considerations.  This is what was originally proposed for the current year’s work plan and allows for greater efficiency with 
respect to outreach and program research because it can be done for all tenant protection options at the same time.
Relationship to draft 2023-2031 Housing Element
In addition to tenant protections under AB1482, the 2023-2031 draft Housing Element Update document contains policies 
related to tenant protections, as well as examining a rental registry option. The draft Housing Element policies are listed 
below and are described in more detail in Attachment 1. 
•
Policy H.3.4: Expand Tenant Protections
•
Policy H 3.6: Examine a Rental Registry Option 
•
Policy 5.4.1: Establish tenant protections in local ordinance to extend measures of AB1482 related to relocation, 
documentation, and right to return policy in eviction cases. 
The draft 2023-2031 Housing Element was submitted to the California Department of Housing and Community 
Development (HCD) on July 1, 2022 and is currently undergoing a 90-day review period, which ends on September 29, 
5 of 21

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2022. After HCD completes their review and their questions and comments have been addressed, the Housing Element will 
be presented to Council for adoption prior to submitting the final version to HCD. It is anticipated that the final Housing 
Element will be brought before Council in late 2022. Because the Housing Element is currently in draft form, Council has 
the opportunity to provide additional input and direction on the policies relating to tenant protections before the Housing 
Element is adopted and certified. 
Implementation Timeline
As previously mentioned, the draft 2023-2031 Housing Element includes policies related to the establishment of tenant 
protections. The target timeline in the Housing Element for completing those policies ranges from fiscal year 2023-24 to 
fiscal year 2025-26. However, staff may adjust the timelines if directed by Council. Housing staff will also need to work on 
implementing other goals, policies and programs contained within the 2023-2031 Housing Element. In addition to the time 
that staff is dedicating to the 2023-2031 Housing Element adoption, staff is currently working on a number of other 
priorities. These include conducting research to obtain a Pro-housing designation, preparing a mandatory 5-year 
Consolidated Plan for the period of 2023-2028 to submit to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in 
early 2023, actively working on streamlining the Below Market Rate (BMR) waiting list process, administering the 
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) and other state grants, and general administration of the BMR and First 
Time Homebuyer programs. One of the top priorities in the Housing Element is to update the City’s Inclusionary Housing 
Policy, as this program must be completed within one year of the Housing Element adoption (fiscal year 2023-24). Due to 
staffing limitations, it is important to note that implementing other housing policies and programs may be delayed if staff 
is directed to prioritize the tenant protection policies. 
Questions for Council:
1)
Should staff begin researching tenant protection policies? If so, which ones and in what order of priority?
2)
Which work items should move down in priority to make time to prioritize AB1482 work plan items?
3)
Are there any other tenant protection policies that Council would direct staff to study? 
4)
Is there any additional direction to staff?
BUDGET IMPACT:
This item is for discussion purposes only. There are no budget impacts at this time.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This study session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft 2023-2031 Housing Element Goals, Policies and Programs
Att 2 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia, Housing Manager
emurillogarcia@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7223
6 of 21

--- page 7 ---
Attachment 1

Draft 2023-2031 Housing Element

Tenant Protection Goals, Policies and Programs

Number Measure(s Timeline | Program

Expand Tenant Expand tenant a) Extend AB1482 a) 2023
Protections protections in provisions to — 2024

local ordinance require tenant
to extend relocation b) 2025
measures of payments for No — 2026
AB1482 related Fault evictions for
to relocation, those with tenure | c) 2023
documentation, less than one — 2024
and right to year.
return policy in
eviction cases. Make

recommendations

to the City Council

for establishing

tenant protection

policies that

include the

requirement of

documentation

from landlords

who use the

substantial

remodel

exemption to

evict tenants and

a Right to Return

policy for tenants

displaced from

homes due to

demolition or

substantial

remodels.

Amend the Code
to strengthen
enforcement
penalty structure
to aid in
protecting tenants
from unsafe or
substandard units.

7 of 21


--- page 8 ---
Attachment 1

Number Measure(s Timeline | Program

Examine a
Rental Registry
Option

5.4.1 Establish tenant
protections in
local ordinance
to extend
measures of
AB1482 related
to relocation,
documentation,
and right to
return policy in
eviction cases.

Explore a rental
registry to track
rents and
evictions

citywide.

Increase tenant
protections to
prevent
displacement of
those with
disproportionate
housing needs.

This item is connected to
Policy H 5.4.1.

Research options and best

practices for a rental
registry list, including
determining necessary
financial and human
resources needed to
establish such a program.
Make recommendations
to City Council.

a) Extend AB1482
provisions to require
tenant relocation
payments for No Fault
evictions for those with

tenure less than one year.

b) Make
recommendations to the
City Council for
establishing tenant
protection policies that
include the requirement
of documentation from
landlords who use the
substantial remodel
exemption to evict
tenants and a Right to
Return policy for tenants

displaced from homes due

to demolition or
substantial remodels.

c) Amend the Code to
strengthen enforcement

penalty structure to aid in

protecting tenants from
unsafe or substandard
units. This item is

connected to Policy H 3.4.

a) 2023
— 2024

b) 2025
— 2026

c) 2023
— 2024;
consisten
t with
general
GPP #H
3.4

8 of 21


--- page 9 ---
From: Fernando Pena 
 
Sent: Friday, August 12, 2022 3:26 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Alane Gilbrech <alane@samcar.org>
Subject: Oppose City of San Mateo Tenant Protection Policies Work program
Dear Mayor Bonilla and City Council members:
With all due respect, first there was a discussion to raise the property transfer tax this year.  Second,
you then decided on raising the property transfer tax to a higher tier to protect single family
homeowners, but still placed it on the ballot for very large commercial properties.  Third, a letter
from a third-party vendor, HdL, began arriving in the mailboxes of mom-and-pop property owners in
San Mateo saying there’s a business license tax on property owners who are receiving income from
leasing/renting activities after many years of not enforcing this.
And now housing providers may be subject to stricter tenant protection policies.  It’s not hard to see
why housing providers in the City of San Mateo are feeling unappreciated.  I am writing to you all to
voice the San Mateo County Association of Realtors opposition to your proposed tenant protection
policies.
Rent Control
As you know, the citizens of San Mateo soundly defeated Measure Q, the rent control measure in
2016 by a 60% to 40% vote.  We are strongly opposed to any rent control direction to staff.
Just Cause Eviction
The unintended consequences include a costly and time-consuming process, month to month lease
impacts, good renters being punished, increase in criminal behavior, and good renters may
experience harassment from a problem tenant.
Rental Registry
This is unnecessary, it’s going to be costly, cumbersome, and, most alarming, it would expose
personal data to public scrutiny.  The registry would make private tenants and housing providers
share private, detailed information.  This is not a component of AB 1482.  No legislation on rental
registry has been passed in Sacramento because it’s just flawed policy.  Please direct staff to
eliminate this from further study.
9 of 21

--- page 10 ---
Relocation Payments
 
This provision negatively impacts owners’ decisions to make capital improvements and upgrades to
their units.  Please direct staff to eliminate this from further study.
 
Renovation-related evictions
 
We want to encourage people to buy buildings and to fix them, if needed.  If you force substantial
costs on these housing providers, it negatively impacts buyers’ decisions to improve apartments and
houses.  Please direct staff to eliminate this from further study.
 
Right to return policy
 
After putting in a substantial amount of money in to renovating properties and going through the
city’s permit process, a right to return provision could negatively impact a housing providers decision
to make improvements, discouraging them to improve facilities.
 
We are concerned that these and the other policies will lead to the vilification of housing providers
here in San Mateo just like it has in Redwood City.  This is not needed in San Mateo.  We would
support giving direction to staff to research what already is in place to protect tenants not new
policies, including AB 1482, legal aid in the community, Project Sentinel, covenant of quiet
enjoyment, and other state laws.  Thank you.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
Fernando Peña
 
www.samcar.org  |  www.facebook.com/samcar.realtors
 
 
10 of 21

--- page 11 ---
From: 
 
Sent: Sunday, August 14, 2022 6:21 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: OPPOSE: City of San Mateo’s proposed tenant protection policy program
Dear Mayor Bonilla and Members of the City Council:
Thank you for the opportunity to voice my concern regarding the City of San Mateo’s proposed tenant protection
policy protection program.  My name is Rosario Wong.  I am in strong opposition to this proposal.
Just Cause Eviction
The unintended consequences include a costly and time-consuming process, month to month lease impacts, good
renters being punished, increase in criminal behavior, and good renters may experience harassment from a problem
tenant. Please direct staff to eliminate this from further study.
Rental Registry
This is unnecessary, it is going to be costly, cumbersome, and, most alarming, it would expose personal data to
public scrutiny. The registry would make private tenants and housing providers share private, detailed information.
This is not a component of AB 1482. No legislation on rental registry has been passed in Sacramento because it is
just flawed policy. Please direct staff to eliminate this from further study.
Relocation Payments
This provision negatively impacts owners’ decisions to make capital improvements and upgrades to their units.
Please direct staff to eliminate this from further study.
Renovation-related evictions
We want to encourage people to buy buildings and to fix them, if needed. If you force substantial costs on these
housing providers, it negatively impacts buyers’ decisions to improve apartments and houses. Please direct staff to
eliminate this from further study.
Right to return policy
After putting in a substantial amount of money in to renovating properties and going through the city’s permit
process, a right to return provision could negatively impact a housing providers decision to make improvements,
discouraging them to improve facilities. Please direct staff to eliminate this from further study.
We are concerned that these and the other policies will lead to the vilification of housing providers here in San
Mateo just like it has in Redwood City. This is not needed in San Mateo.
We would support giving direction to staff to research what already is in place to protect tenants, and not new
11 of 21

--- page 12 ---
policies, including AB 1482, legal aid in the community, Project Sentinel, covenant of quiet enjoyment, and other
state laws.
 
Thank you. I am respectfully asking you to provide staff direction to not begin researching the tenant protection
policy program. Thank you.
 
Sincerely,
 
Rosario
12 of 21

--- page 13 ---
From: 
 
Sent: Monday, August 15, 2022 12:19 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: OPPOSE: City of San Mateo’s proposed tenant protection policy program
Dear Mayor Bonilla and Members of the City Council:
   We do not want to have City of San Mateo to follow the rental policies of San Francisco.  There are a lot
of houses vacant in San Francisco because people there are afraid of the draconian rental policies there
and do not want to rent it out.  Also City of San Mateo is popular because of its good schools, good
environment and good policies enacted by the City Council all along. I know many friends who like to
move to this city from San Francisco.   By enacting too many restrictions on the rental properties, people
will not want to invest here.  This will lessen the supply of housing inventories.  I think the best way is to
set up a Charity Foundation and people in the City can donate to help the tenants who face financial
difficulties.  Thank you.
Regards, 
Rosario
13 of 21

--- page 14 ---
Dear Mayor Rodriguez and Members of the San Mateo City Council,

My name is Suzanne Moore, and I, like my fellow member, Kary] Eldridge, represent the
Anti-Displacement Committee of San Mateo. The ADC is committed to address our housing
crisis through reduction of displacement. Tenant protection is inherent to that effort. The State
mandates of Fair Housing inspire all our communities to do our part.

Here’s what we know:

1. Low-income residents and their families and people of color are disproportionately
displaced.

2. The first six months after displacement are a time of increased risk for homelessness.

3. Stable housing is necessary for life and health. Our homeless live, on average, 10-15 years
less than those stably housed.

4. Our communities are adversely impacted by lack of housing for our essential workers, our
school children, our residents who are elderly, disabled, and mentally ill.

5. Our legal aid and CORE agency associates currently report an increase of evictions - all
occurring at the start of the school year and a potential COVID winter surge.

6. Anti-displacement policies work to prevent evictions and homelessness and keep our
neighbors housed.

The ADC supports the proposed measures under discussion this evening.

1. Just Cause Eviction Policy: extend protection to all tenants including those with less than
one year tenure.

2. Relocation benefits: expand payments to three months. The expense of an unplanned
relocation is costly. Our County recognizes the COVID-driven increase in our County
homeless numbers. Increased benefits will make a difference and reduce the homeless risk.
3. Renovation-related Evictions: Require building permits prior to an eviction. This assures
that property owners are committed to timely renovations. Sadly, our legal associates have
identified cases where substantial renovation did not occur after an eviction.

I appreciate this Council’s leadership to educate and engage City residents, study Housing
Element language to protect tenants, and promote safe, affordable housing for all. Thank you.

Suzanne Moore

14 of 21


--- page 15 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Martin McTaggart; Erin Fellers
Subject:
FW: August 4 meeting on tenant protection
Date:
Monday, August 15, 2022 3:57:05 PM
 
 
From: John Lau 
 
Sent: Monday, August 15, 2022 3:56 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: August 4 meeting on tenant protection
 
Ladies/Gentlemen:
 
We can never protect solve housing shortage by passing rent control laws.  Neither
San Francisco, nor San Jose can do it.  It creates unequal distribution of resources,
allowing long term tenants occupying big spaces while low-income people cannot find
adequate spaces.  It depressed the property tax revenue of San Jose rental
properties and made the neighborhood worse off.  It took San Jose and Campbell
police joint force half a year with 13 unmarked police cars to surround 2982
Magliocco Drive, San Jose to arrest a criminal.  Had San Jose did not had just cause
eviction to protect criminals, a responsible landlord can remove that criminal in 3o
days. 
 
We landlord are not interested in evicting tenants just for few bucks.  Tenant turnover
causes a lot more than the so called increased rent.  If we check the record of San
Francisco and San Jose, which have recorded all evictions.  I think near 100% were
due to non-payment of rent.  The just cause and other stupid laws mainly work for the
criminals and drug dealers and cannot solve the housing shortage.  
 
Please concentrate on 
John Lau
15 of 21

--- page 16 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia; Erin Fellers; Martin McTaggart
Subject:
FW: No Additional Housing Protections Needed in San Mateo
Date:
Monday, August 15, 2022 2:56:33 PM
Attachments:
Outlook-a1npgs0z.png
 
 
From: Cary Kletter 
 
Sent: Monday, August 15, 2022 2:14 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: No Additional Housing Protections Needed in San Mateo
 
Dear San Mateo City Council Members:
I live and work in San Mateo and I provide housing here as a residential landlord. It is very
difficult to provide housing in the City of San Mateo because there are numerous overlapping
state and city rules regarding providing housing. California recently enacted Statewide Rent
Control, and that limits the amount that rents can be increased (water, sewer, mortgage
interest, taxes and other expenses go up over time). A previous effort to enact city mandated
rent protections in San Mateo was unsuccessful.
 
One problem with relocation expenses is that even highly compensated and millionaire
tenants must be paid relocation expenses by mom and pop landlords like me. This is because
these types of laws are never tied to the income or net worth of the tenants. Another problem
with rent regulations is that is leads to less renovation of housing, and ultimately blight and
delapidated communities. Why would landlords renovate their housing if they cannot recoup
the expenses by raising the rent? Renovation of housing is safer for the tenants and more
beautiful (and more property tax income) for the community. San Francsico, Oakland and
other cities that have passed city rent ordinances have seen the disasterous consequences
these local rent laws create.
 
There are many ways tenants are already protected including but not limited to AB 1482,
Section 8 housing, Project Sentinel, Legal Aid, HIP Housing, San Mateo County Bar Assoc. and
other community organizations. The best way to ease the problem of housing in San Mateo is
make it easier to build and provide housing. Do not make it more onerous to be a housing
provider, make it easier so that more housing is built. 
 
As a San Mateo resident, San Mateo employer, San Mateo business owner, and San Mateo
housing provider I strongly encourage you to NOT pass new tenant protections laws that will
harm our beautiful San Mateo community.
 
Thank you.
 
16 of 21

--- page 17 ---
Cary Kletter  
 
Cary Kletter 
 
 
CONFIDENTIALITY - This e-mail message and any attachments thereto are for the sole use
of the intended recipient(s) and contain a private, confidential communication protected by the
attorney client privilege and the attorney work product doctrine. Any unauthorized review,
use, disclosure or distribution of this e-mail is strictly prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient, please contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
message.
17 of 21

--- page 18 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Martin McTaggart; Erin Fellers; Eloiza Murillo-Garcia
Subject:
FW: No rent control at the local level in San Mateo
Date:
Monday, August 15, 2022 3:47:03 PM
Attachments:
Agenda Report-104.pdf
 
 
From: l watanuki 
 
Sent: Monday, August 15, 2022 3:15 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>;
lwatanuki6@gmail.com
Subject: No rent control at the local level in San Mateo
 
August 15, 2022
Dear Mayor Bonilla and Members of the City Council,
We are totally against any type of rent control or any additional bureaucracy at the local level in San
Mateo for more tenant protections.  Why punish the good landlords who already follow good
business practices with tenants.  
Thank you.
Best,
Laurie Watanuki
 
18 of 21

--- page 19 ---
From:
Patrice Olds
To:
Eloiza Murillo-Garcia; Martin McTaggart; Erin Fellers
Subject:
FW: Tenant Protection Policies
Date:
Monday, August 15, 2022 4:00:42 PM
 
 
From: Neville Batliwalla 
 
Sent: Monday, August 15, 2022 4:00 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Subject: Tenant Protection Policies
 
Dear Mayor and Council members. I was shocked to see this study
session when we as landlords have recd no rent increases for two to
three years.
 
Furthurmore our mortgage payments are increasing with the Fed
increasing rates.
 
Our average rents are stlll below Pre pandemic levels.
 
We have just gone thru hell with vacancies, non payment of rent etc.
 
Please ask your staff to not research this now. Let us get our heads
above the water before you proceed.
 
Thanking you
 
Neville Batliwalla
Sent from Mail for Windows
 
19 of 21

--- page 20 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 21-4678
File ID: 22-6482
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
August 15, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Solid Waste Rate Setting for 2023
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive information and provide feedback on potential solid waste rates and restructuring for 2023.
BACKGROUND:
City Council sets the rates to be charged by the City’s franchise hauler for solid waste, recycling, and compost collection 
annually. The total cost of the solid waste program includes those for collection services provided by Recology San Mateo 
County (Recology), processing and disposal services provided by the South Bayside Waste Management Authority 
(SBWMA), and City fees that support the City’s sustainability goals and efforts to meet all regulatory compliance mandates. 
The customer rates are adjusted as required to generate enough revenue to cover the cost of the provided services. 
In 2006, the Council established a progressive rate structure for the City’s solid waste collection and disposal to incentivize 
waste reduction and to comply with waste diversion regulations. This was successful and residential rate payers migrated 
to smaller solid waste collection containers, thereby reducing their monthly cost. However, the incentive in the previous 
rate structure resulted in the single-family residential and roll-off rates not covering their cost of service. Commercial and 
multi-family rates do cover their cost of service. Proposition 218 requires rates to reflect the true cost-of-service and 
ensure each customer class is financially self-sufficient. 
Council approved a one-year rate increase for 2022 that moved towards a cost-of-service recovery vs. progressive rate 
structure and recommended staff to continue to balance cost-of-service recovery for 2023 and beyond. In addition, 
Council directed staff to reevaluate a three-year rate structure for 2023-2025. Lastly, in 2022, the Council provided 
direction to maintain a minimum reserve target of 1.5 months (12.5%) of annual operating costs, which can be used in 
times of need to offset rate increases. The 2022 rate increases reflected: 
• A $4.00 per month increase for 20- and 32-gallon residential and commercial cart rates;
• A $2.00 increase for 64- and 96-gallon residential and commercial cart rates;
• A two percent increase in commercial solid waste and organic bin rates; and
• A five percent increase in compactor rates. 
Staff contracted with HF&H Consultants, LLC (HF&H) to develop a five-year plan for a solid waste rate structure that 
provides funding for collection, disposal, and processing of solid waste; continuation of the City’s Solid Waste enterprise 
programs; and maintenance of reserves based on appropriate balances as described above. HF&H evaluated the revenue 
requirement and current rates for each customer class (e.g., single-family residential, commercial). The recommended rate 
adjustments are consistent with a phased-in strategy to realign each customer class to reflect the true cost-of-service and 
20 of 21

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ensure each customer class is financially self-sufficient. The 2022 rate adjustments brought cart rates closer to the actual 
cost-of-service, yet additional increases are needed for 2023 and beyond. 
Recommended rate adjustments balance the use of existing reserves, receipt of non-rate revenues, and rate increases to 
bridge the projected revenue shortfall. The current projected Solid Waste Fund balance is $9.4M, which is more than the 
minimum reserve balance of $3.4M. However, if there is no rate increase over the next five years, the reserves will be 
depleted. HF&H and staff recommend a three percent overall revenue increase in 2023. While rates will be set to generate 
an overall increase of three percent, the rate impacts will differ by customer class and container size, to better align the 
rates with each customer class’s proportionate share of the cost-of-service. 
In the study session, staff will review findings and present strategies including (1) continued re-alignment of revenues from 
each customer class to their respective cost-of-service and the recommended rate increases over the five-year planning 
period; (2) a proposal to eliminate the 25% discount for commercial organic rates; and (3) a recommended three-year rate 
structure and Proposition 218 notice. Staff requests Council feedback regarding rate adjustment strategies. The next step 
in the rate setting process will be presenting solid waste rate increases and requesting Council approval for Proposition 
218 notification in advance of a public hearing to approve final solid waste rates before the end of 2022. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no impact to the budget for receiving this administrative report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This rate setting review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve 
any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
There are no attachments.
STAFF CONTACT
Jack Johnson, Waste Management Supervisor
jjohnson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7346
Sarah Scheidt, Regulatory Compliance Manager
sscheidt@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7385
21 of 21