Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
South Gate CA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Mon Sep 07 2026

Overview

South Gate CA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. South Gate CA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, South Gate CA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

2

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

2

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

457,177

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

0

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

2,196

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to South Gate CA PD data.

South Gate CA PD is not sharing data with any partner networks.

Receiving Network Data From

Organizations sharing their data with South Gate CA PD.

South Gate CA PD is not receiving data from any partner networks.
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by South Gate CA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV

Provided by Flock Safety