--- page 1 ---
The Class of 2026 in Numbers
Shop Our Merch
 
Donate
Flock Safety AI cameras have sparked debate around Tompkins County over concerns about data sharing with
federal agencies. Photo by Nathan Ellison / The Cornell Daily Sun
Flock Safety’s AI Cameras Raise
Debate in Tompkins County Over

--- page 2 ---
Data Sharing With Federal
Agencies
By Joshua Cohen
Nov 24, 2025 2:14 am · Updated Nov 24, 2025 5:33 am
 
 
READING TIME: ABOUT 9 MINUTES
Police safety monitoring cameras, powered by artificial intelligence, have been
scattered across Tompkins County beginning this year, and residents and local
legislators are expressing concerns over implications of data sharing with
counties in agreement with federal agencies such as U.S. Immigration and
Customs Enforcement.
Ithaca is a sanctuary city, meaning that the Ithaca Police Department does not
have contractual agreements with federal immigration agencies, including
ICE. However, Broome County, nearly adjacent to Tompkins County, has
opted into an agreement with federal immigration programs.
In 2023, Ithaca’s Common Council approved funding for 22 automatic license
plate readers across the city, which the IPD currently operates. The security
company, Flock Safety, has access to the camera’s data for up to 30 days after
data is captured. 
Nevertheless, four members of the Tompkins County Legislature, including
Amanda Champion (D-Ithaca), Michael Lane (D-Dryden), Veronica Pillar (D-
Ithaca) and Shawna Black (D-Ithaca), recently opposed a New York State gun-
involved violence elimination grant that would sponsor the continuation of
Flock Safety cameras. In a statement to The Sun, Black wrote that “I did not
support [funding] Flock cameras and I believe there are other ways for us to
use the funding.”

--- page 3 ---
The cameras have been useful in investigative cases to preserve public safety,
according to IPD Chief Thomas Kelly. Kelly told The Ithaca Times on Sept. 3
that, “Flock data has already proven useful in solving crimes by providing
leads that would not have otherwise been available.” 
Flock Safety has reported itself that it operates in over 700 cities nationwide
and utilizes tools such as license plate readers to obtain evidence in
investigations. Flock has continuously stressed its commitment to “[helping]
law enforcement solve cross-jurisdiction crimes faster —while upholding strict
privacy and data ethics” on its website.
Black said that she “personally [doesn’t] trust [Flock Safety] to provide
protection or not use the collected footage for [the deportation of]
undocumented people that live in our county.”
Black also presented an alternative to safety camera programs, highlighting
that cameras are usually activated after a crime has been committed. 
“We need a more preventative manner to reduce gun violence,” Black said.
“[Something] that we’ve seen effective is youth employment and engagement.
There’s also an education and prevention piece that I believe we haven’t talked
much about.”
In early November, residents of Redmond, Washington, similarly pushed to
dismantle Flock Safety cameras after suspecting data sharing with ICE
following numerous arrests that were made within a mile of a camera’s
location.
Maintaining Data Privacy: Ithaca and Tompkins County
At a Tompkins County Legislature meeting on Oct. 7, a Flock Safety
representative discussed privacy provisions such as not allowing data access to
agencies outside New York State and data being automatically deleted after a
30-day period under Flock’s default policy.

--- page 4 ---
Tompkins County Sheriff Derek Osborne responded to concerns over Flock
Safety data sharing in a statement to The Sun, saying that, “We only provide
access to other agencies within NYS that have contracts with Flock,” Osborne
wrote, referencing his commitment to “[alleviating] community concerns and
[preserving] local trust.”
He emphasized that the Tompkins County Sheriff's Office does not participate
in ICE operations and Flock is “perhaps the most limited and least maintained
— as far as records retention — than [other systems in the Tompkins County
Sheriff’s Office’s interactions and data].”
County Legislator Deborah Dawson also expressed her support for Sheriff
Osborne’s position in upholding Tompkins County’s sanctuary policies in a
statement to The Sun. 
“Sheriff Osborne has already proven himself willing and able to refuse ICE
requests for cooperation unless such requests are accompanied by a signed
judicial warrant,” Dawson said, citing Osborne’s refusal to hold and turn over
a detainee at ICE’s request.
Citizen Concerns With Flock Safety Data Sharing
However, some Tompkins County residents have expressed concerns with the
potential for these cameras to be used to aid ICE in tracking undocumented
citizens and individuals who travel to Tompkins County to receive abortions
that are illegal in their respective states. Reporting done under 404 media has
also found that ICE has been working with local law enforcement agencies to
access their Flock databases upon request.
As defined by the New York Times, sanctuary jurisdictions are areas that
create policies “[limiting] cooperation with immigration agents who seek to
deport undocumented immigrants.” Ithaca Common Council unanimously
reaffirmed Ithaca’s status as a sanctuary city on Nov. 5 after the U.S.
Department of Justice called for an investigation into the Tompkins County

--- page 5 ---
Sheriff who allegedly failed to honor a federal warrant when he released an
undocumented immigrant from custody. 
On Aug. 6, several Ithaca residents expressed dissatisfaction over IPD’s
contract with Flock Safety at an Ithaca Common Council meeting, citing what
they see as data sharing with federal agencies in other areas that utilize Flock
Safety cameras. 
"The information that is collected by the Flock cameras are being accessed and
used in ways that well‑intentioned communities are not aware of and not in
control of," said Katie Church, a resident who spoke during public comment.
Ithaca Mayor Robert Cantelmo told The Ithaca Times that he was “alarmed”
by the stories about loopholes within the Flock system, and that he would like
to hear from the Flock Safety administrators in the future on the
implementation of new safety measures.
Kelly responded to concerns of data sharing by telling The Ithaca Times that,
“all agencies that access IPD’s Flock data must comply with the same strict
usage policies [set by IPD], which prohibit unauthorized use or sharing —
including with federal agencies for immigration enforcement.”
Implications of Law Enforcement Agencies Signing Agreements
With ICE
These privacy concerns come after a wave of New York Sheriff's offices,
including nearby Steuben, Madison and Broome counties, have signed an ICE
program, called Delegation of Immigration Authority Section 287(g)
Immigration and Nationality Act, which allows ICE to “partner with state and
local law enforcement” local sheriff’s offices to assist with immigration
enforcement,” according to their website. 
Nearby Broome County only agreed to sign the “Warrant Service Officer
Program” provision of the 287(g) program in March, in which “ICE trains,
certifies and authorizes your officers to serve and execute administrative

--- page 6 ---
warrants on aliens currently in your agency’s custody,” according to the ICE
website.  
Broome County did not sign onto the “Jail Enforcement Model” and “Task
Force Model” provisions that require more delegated responsibilities and
training to local law enforcement.
As Broome County is not a sanctuary area, Ithaca residents have shared
concerns at Ithaca Common Council meetings, raising questions such as, “​
What prevents a [sheriff] department affiliated with ICE through the 287(g)
program from accessing Ithaca’s data on their behalf?” Ithaca currently has
approved their Flock data access to 106 other law enforcement agencies. 
Residents have also voiced their values in protecting Ithaca and Tompkins
County from federal agencies viewing them as “targets” and asking local
lawmakers to “dismantle [these] dangerous technological infrastructure of
authoritarianism.”
Broome County Sheriff Frederick J. Akshar II, who signed an agreement to
abide by the 287(g) program’s “Warrant Service Officer” provision, told
sources at a press conference last year that he supported the provision because
it reduces the complexities of waiting for ICE agents to travel to the jail to
serve an immigration warrant if an inmate in question had an outstanding
warrant.
This move by Akshar was met with public pushback. On Sept. 11, over 150
people convened at the United Presbyterian Church of Binghamton to listen to
a panel that discussed concerns with Broome County’s agreement to the
“Warrant Service Officer Program” and the overall quality of life for arrestees
in the county jail.
In June, a Texas sheriff utilized Illinois license plate readers to track down a
Texas resident who had undergone a self-managed abortion in Illinois. It was

--- page 7 ---
later found that the Illinois police department violated state law by sharing
this data.
Recently, traffic cameras have been set up near a Planned Parenthood located
at 117 Hawley St. in Binghamton, which is located in Broome County. 
WBNG reported that pictures of ICE agents making arrests in the Broome
County area have been circulating on Facebook, causing local dismay. With
Broome County having access to traffic cameras, members of the public have
increasingly started to speculate about the Broome County Sheriff’s Office’s
participation in ICE operations outside of the “Warrant Service Officer”
provision agreed upon, as ICE can only train and authorize local law
enforcement to administer warrants on behalf of ICE.
Joshua Cohen
Joshua Cohen is a member of the Class of 2029 in the School of Industrial and
Labor Relations. He is a contributor for the News department and can be
reached at jmc746@cornell.edu.
Read More
Ithaca Beats the Heat Amid Dayslong Heatwave
Incoming Freshman Defenseman Cole Tuminaro
Selected in NHL Draft
Heat Advisory, Extreme Heat Watch Issued for
Tompkins County as It Nears 100 Degrees Fahrenheit
Heat

--- page 8 ---
Trending
Student Writes ‘Not Interested in Working for a Jew’
on Handshake, Cornell Reports Bias Incident

--- page 9 ---
Buffalo Pothole Bandit Returns to Ithaca, Repairs Streets With Art
Alumnus Injured in Car Incident Banned From Campus, Alleges CUPD Officer
Entered Residence Without Permission or Warrant

--- page 10 ---
U.S. News Ranks Cornell 13th Best University in the World

--- page 11 ---
Cornell Cancels Severe Weather Threat After Tornado Watch, Severe
Thunderstorm Warning

--- page 12 ---
The Cornell Daily Sun - Since 1880
News
Opinion
Sports
Arts & Culture
Science & Tech
Lifestyle
Specials
Multimedia
Subscribe to the Newsletter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Powered by  Solutions by The State News
All Content © 2026 The Cornell Sun