source: packet.pdf
sha256: 0818293f9f27ca6ab7aada11d441c8d580f5f53e916dc843b3327a615e4b1284
pages: 734
ocr_pages: 22
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
June 7, 2021
7:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
REVISED AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: June 7, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 834 9885 3203
Passcode: 086830
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) “Pride Month”
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of May 17, 2021.
3.
Ordinance Adoption – Electronic Campaign Statement Filing Requirement Amendment
Adopt an uncodified ordinance to update the existing ordinance requiring electronic filing of campaign
statements.
4.
Ordinance Introduction – “Claims for Tax Refunds” Chapter Amendments Including Electronic Claims Filing
Introduce an Ordinance to amend Municipal Code Chapter 3.35 "Claims for Tax Refunds" to provide for other
forms of claims and to authorize the electronic filing of claims.
5.
Senior Transportation “Get Around” Program – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to find that calling for bids is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible and award an agreement
to Serra Yellow Cab, Inc. for the Get Around Senior Transportation Project up to the amount of $150,000 for fiscal
year 2021-22, with an option for the City to extend for an additional year, and authorize the Director of Parks and
Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
1 of 734

--- page 2 ---
6.
Senior Catered Lunch Services Program – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Corporate Cuisine for senior catered lunch services in the amount of $100,000;
establish a contingency of $10,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement
in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
7.
Landscape Maintenance Services: Medians, Islands, and Right of Ways - Agreement
Approve an agreement with Loral Landscaping, Inc. for landscape maintenance of medians, islands, and right of
ways located within the city limits in the amount of $223,600 for fiscal year 2021-22, with the option for three
additional one-year extensions; establish a contingency of $17,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and
Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the
contingency amount.
8.
Animal Control Services – Agreement
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo for continued provision of animal control services for a five-
year term commencing July 1, 2021, with an estimated cost of $871,467 for the first year and cost to be
recalculated annually for subsequent years, and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in
substantially the form presented.
9.
Police Department Patrol Vehicles – Purchase and Build-out Contracts
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing process and approve the purchase contract with
National Auto Fleet Group for the purchase of nine (9) 2021 Ford Hybrid Police Interceptor Utility vehicles in the
amount of $475,534.44 and to adopt the findings for an alternative bidding process and approve an agreement
with Priority 1 Public Safety for the purchase and installation of public safety equipment in the amount of
$144,336.33; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $62,000.00; and authorize the Public Works
Director to execute the purchase contract and agreement for services in substantially the form presented and
issue any change orders as allowed by the agreements and within the contingency amount.
10.
Fiscal Year 2020-21 Budget Appropriation - Police Department
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $200,000 to the 2020-21 Police Department operating budget, which will be
fully offset by reimbursement revenue.
11.
Fiscal Year 2021-22 General Obligation Bond – Tax Rate Levy
Adopt a Resolution to levy the property tax rate of $0.0064 per $100 of assessed value (equates to $6.40 per
$100,000 assessed value) for the voter-approved General Obligation Bond annual debt service payment.
12.
Citation Processing Services and Traffic/Moving Citation Equipment Purchase – Agreement
Approve an agreement with Turbo Data Systems, Inc. for citation processing, payment, and adjudication services
for a term beginning July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2026; purchase 30 nFORCER-II Scan traffic/moving citation
units for a total cost of $102,000 plus $80 per unit per month for support/maintenance/communications fee; and
authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
13.
25th Avenue Grade Separation Project and Delaware Street Relief Sewer Project – Interagency Amendment and
Agreements
Approve an Amendment to the Cooperative Agreement, a License Agreement in the amount of $16,500, and a
Service Agreement in the estimated amount of $133,049 between the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, San
Mateo County Transit District, and the City of San Mateo; and authorize the Mayor to execute the amendment
and agreements in substantially the form presented.
2 of 734

--- page 3 ---
14.
Clean Water Program Labor Compliance Consultants – Amendments
Approve amendments to agreements with Silveira Consulting and TSG Enterprises, Inc. DBA The Solis Group for
on-call labor compliance services for the Clean Water Program in an amount not to exceed $200,000 each, for a
total amount of $400,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in substantially the
form presented.
15.
Sale of City-Owned Real Property Adjacent to Private Property and Abutting the Marina Lagoon
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the sale of real property adjacent to private property on Los Prados Street and
Lago Street, finding that the real property transfers serve the public convenience and necessity, and authorize the
execution of a grant deed for the City-owned portion of Lot 16, Block 1 of the Los Prados Segundos Subdivision
and a grant deed for the City-owned portion of Lot 17, Block 1 of the Los Prados Primeros Subdivision, by the
Mayor in substantially the form presented.
16.
Downtown Affordable Housing Site Planning-Related Costs – Fund Appropriation
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $488,000 from the Construction Services Fund to planning application projects
for the Downtown Affordable Housing Sites project, located at 480 East Fourth Avenue known as Kiku Crossing, to
cover planning-related costs.
17.
Downtown Parking Equipment Network Hosting and Materials – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an exception to the City’s competitive bidding requirement and approve an
agreement with IPS Group, Inc. for parking equipment network hosting and materials in the amount of $300,000
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
18.
Downtown Business Improvement Area – Resolution of Intent for Annual Renewal
Accept the fiscal year 2020-21 Downtown San Mateo Association Annual Report; adopt a Resolution of Intent to
Levy the Annual Assessments for the Downtown Business Improvement Area; and set a public hearing for the
June 21, 2021 City Council meeting to consider levying the annual assessment.
19.
Below Market Rental Rates, Sales Prices and Unit Community Priorities – 2021 Revisions
Adopt a Resolution to establish 2021 maximum rental rates and sales prices for affordable housing as required by
the City of San Mateo's Below Market Rate (BMR) housing program; and establish Community Priority for units
containing 3 or more bedrooms, which may allow a developer to provide fewer BMR units in exchange for units
with more bedrooms as long as all other BMR program provisions are followed.
20.
Park and Recreation Commission and Community Relations Commission – Appointment Subcommittee
Recommendations
At the recommendation of the Appointment Subcommittees: Appoint Sarah Fields to the Park and Recreation
Commission for a full four-year term ending June 10, 2025 and appoint Meghan Crowell to the Community
Relations Commission for a full four-year term ending June 10, 2025.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
3 of 734

--- page 4 ---
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made. Judicial
review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date the
decision is made.
21.
Proposed 2021-22 Budget and 2021-26 Capital Improvement Program
Review the proposed 2021-22 budget and the 2021-26 Capital Improvement Program, and receive public
comment prior to the scheduled adoption at the June 21, 2021 City Council meeting.
OLD BUSINESS
22.
Ordinance Introduction – “Short-Term Rentals” Amendment
THIS ITEM WAS CONTINUED FROM COUNCIL MEETING DATE 5/17/21.
Introduce an Ordinance to amend Municipal Code Chapter 5.66 “Short Term Rentals” (STR) to clarify that only
properties where the host is not present have an annual limit on the number of days they can be rented, that STR
properties do not need to be the owner’s primary residence, and that accessory dwelling units cannot be used for
short-term rentals.
23.
COVID-19 Update
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and
regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared
emergency.
NEW BUSINESS
24.
Development Impact Fee Study – Report Review
Review findings of Development Impact Fee Study and provide staff direction related to the structure and amount
of development impact fees in fiscal year 2021-22.
25.
Ordinance Introduction – Wireless Telecommunications Facilities in the Public Right of Way
Introduce an Ordinance to amend Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communication Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way”,
to the San Mateo Municipal Code Title 17 “Streets and Sidewalks” and review the proposed Design and
Engineering Standards and Application Requirements.
26.
Citywide Communications – Informational Update
Receive an informational presentation about the citywide communication strategy.
27.
2020 Climate Action Plan – Annual Progress Report
Receive an update on the implementation of the 2020 Climate Action Plan.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
Future discussion topic presented by Council Member Lee
Consideration of a letter to State Officials requesting an extension of the current residential eviction moratorium
through calendar year 2021 as part of the legislation approving the FY 2021/22 State Budget
4 of 734

--- page 5 ---
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and
you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
5 of 734

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4257-08
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 7, 2021 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of May 17, 2021.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Special Meeting Minutes 5/17/21
Att 2 – Regular Meeting Minutes 5/17/21
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
6 of 734

--- page 7 ---
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, May 17, 2021
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Roll Call
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee and Goethals 
STUDY SESSION 
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Storm Systems – Funding Analysis Overview
Deputy Director Matthew Zucca provided the history of the Storm Systems Evaluation process. Jerry Bradshaw, 
Senior Engineer, SCI Consulting, provided information on funding analysis to create an enterprise fund to meet the 
needs of the storm water system needs. He outlined next steps to consider a Community Survey. Council asked 
questions of staff and the consultant. 
Public Comment - Rich Hedges clarified history of the lagoon. Andrew commented that this is a watershed that 
feeds to lagoon. James Ruigomez spoke on using prevailing wage for these projects. Rick Sakuda stated it is 
everybody’s rain, the vast majority of the silt comes from the other areas in San Mateo. Lori Middione, Laguna 
Vista Homeowners Association, talked about needing information on where to haul the dredge. 
Council Members commented on the need for a short term and a long-term plan; education needed on this is a 
vital storm water retention basin and that the benefit of maintaining this accrues to everyone; opportunities to do 
some work in tandem with the County’s Flood Seal Level Rise District; interest in surveying the public similar to the 
Prop 218 ballots; long overdue and time to move forward; slogan for keep the lagoon blue; and pull in green 
infrastructure in the fee study. Council concurred the next step is to hear from the community. 
CLOSED SESSION 
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the City Council convened into Closed Session at 
6:35 p.m. to consider:
2.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Stacey Cue, Casey Echarte, Rich Lee, and Teresa Abrahamsohn
Employee Organization: Service Employees International Union (SEIU) 521 Maintenance Unit and Police Officers’ 
Association
ADJOURNMENT – The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m.
7 of 734

--- page 8 ---
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
8 of 734

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 05/17/2021
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, May 17, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER - This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee, and Goethals
CEREMONIAL
1.
Takahashi Market – 115 Years in Our Community!
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 2 through 10 were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Papan
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of May 3, 2021.
3.
Emergency Ordinance – Suspension of Minimum Parking Requirements and Enforcement of Zoning Regulations for 
Outdoor Business Operations 
Adopt an emergency ordinance extension to temporarily suspend minimum parking requirements on private 
parking lots; enforcement of zoning regulations for outdoor business operations for commercial uses in private 
shopping centers; and to continue allowing schools, childcare facilities and other educational uses to operate 
outdoors during the COVID-19 public health emergency.
Enactment: Emergency Ordinance No. 2021-14
4.
Ordinance Introduction – Electronic Campaign Statement Filing Requirement Amendment
Introduce an uncodified ordinance to update the existing ordinance requiring electronic filing of campaign 
statements. 
5.
25th Avenue Grade Separation California High Speed Rail Funding Agreement – Amendment 
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the funding agreement with California High Speed Rail Authority and Peninsula 
Corridor Joint Powers Board to extend the expiration date of the funding agreement for the 25th Avenue Grade 
9 of 734

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 05/17/2021
Page 2
Separation project; and authorize the City Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form 
presented.
6.
Local Roadway Safety Plan – Agreement and Appropriation 
Adopt a Resolution to approve a grant funding agreement with the California Department of Transportation for 
the Local Roadway Safety Plan Project, to authorize a budget appropriation in the amount of $72,000 for the Local 
Roadway Safety Plan Project, and to authorize the Public Works Director to execute the Program Supplement 
Agreement in substantially the form presented. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 41 (2021)
7.
Marina Lagoon Vegetation and Water Quality Management Professional Services Agreement – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 3 to the agreement with Waterworks Industries, Inc. to provide additional services for 
Marina Lagoon Vegetation and Water Quality Management in an amount not to exceed $181,480 for a new total 
of $858,980; establish a new contingency of $86,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
8.
Marina Lagoon Operations and Maintenance Permit Assistance – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with WRA, Inc. for professional services for Marina Lagoon 
Operations and Maintenance Permit Assistance in an amount not to exceed $117,000 for a new agreement total 
of $166,000; establish a contingency of $16,700; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
9.
Laurie Meadows Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety Improvement Project – Agreement
Award an agreement to McKim Corporation for the Laurie Meadows Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety Improvement 
Project in the amount of $360,647.75; establish a contingency reserve of $36,000; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue contract change orders as 
allowed by the contract documents and within the amount of the contingency reserve.
10.
US-101/Peninsula Avenue Interchange Project Memorandum of Understanding – Agreement 
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the San Mateo County 
Transportation Authority for the Project Approval Environmental Document phase of the US-101/Peninsula 
Avenue Interchange Project and to authorize the City Manager to execute the MOU in substantially the form 
presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 42 (2021)
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Rich Hedges commented on the Metropolitan Transportation Commission; Drew spoke of concern with the retaining wall 
on the 25th Avenue grade separation. 
PUBLIC HEARING
 
11.
480 East 4th Avenue and 400 East 4th Avenue – Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification
Associate Planner Phillip Brennan and Mollie Naber Associate Director Mid-Pen Housing presented information on 
the requested change. Council asked questions of staff.
Public Comment - Laurie Watanuki, proposed a name change to 5th Avenue Garage, to avoid Kiku Central Garage; 
10 of 734

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 05/17/2021
Page 3
Rich Hedges commented on process improvements for minor changes; Kalisha Webster, Housing Choices partner 
on the project, noted these are minor changes; Benjamin McMullan, Center for Independence, strongly supports 
the project; Diane Pettit stated the need for updated utilities for this project; and Ronnie McGill stated concern 
with speeding on the street.
Council asked additional questions of staff. 
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to approve a Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification for Kiku Crossing, a 
multi-family residential building located at 480 E. 4th Avenue and to the parking garage located at 400 E. 5th 
Avenue. Motion carried 5-0.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Papan
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 43 (2021)
OLD BUSINESS
12.
Consideration of Long-Term Downtown Street Closures
Assistant City Manager Kathy Kleinbaum presented information on survey outreach and next steps needed if 
Council would like to proceed with street closure in certain areas of the downtown to provide for outdoor dining 
after the end of the pandemic. Specifically, direction was sought on 1) what segments of B street should be closed; 
2) should it be season versus year-round closures; 3) should use of platforms or enclosures be allowed; and 4) 
permit requirements for street use. Council asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment - Adam Nugent stated it is great opportunity to gain park public plaza streets; Mark Grieco stated 
his support of closing B Street; Michael Weinhauer concurred with the closures; Adam Loraine stated he is in 
support of closing B Street; Miao stated support and find more ways to help other businesses; Amy T stated 
support; Ken Chin noted long term closure was supported in the Pedestrian Master Plan; and Noelle Langmack her 
support of permanently closing B Street.
Council asked additional questions of staff. Council provided direction to close B street from First Avenue through 
Third Avenue; year round closure is supported; safety concerns were cited with the structures and platforms and 
Council would like a more open feel outside and directed investigation of the street slope to make it more safe to 
not have built platforms; permitting should be a requirement; and businesses on closed streets should not be 
allowed to have parklets on intersecting streets. Council noted this is in alignment with the community survey 
results, and recommended reframing it as not keeping the streets closed to cars but rather we are open to 
pedestrians to support the highest and best use.
13.
General Plan and Housing Element – Update
Community Development Director Christina Horrisberger provided an informational update on the General Plan 
and Housing Element update efforts and sought direction on next steps for door-to-door outreach. Council asked 
questions of staff. 
Public Comment - Raayan Mohtashemi – spoke on targeted outreach as making sense; James Ruigomez. San 
Mateo Building and Construction Trade Unions, spoke in support of a community workforce agreement; Adam 
Nugent stated the need for more renters in the mix for public engagement; Lisa Nash stated the need for more 
clearly defined objectives, more opportunities for general public to interact with staff, and increased transparency;
Stephen Floor stated the need for demographics to ensure we are reaching everyone; Noelle Langmack noted the 
vast majority of participants were white homeowners; Angela Solis, Housing Leadership Council, noted the need to 
11 of 734

--- page 12 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 05/17/2021
Page 4
work with community groups to address needs of underrepresented; Sarah Fields stated the total of the outreach 
efforts are very good but there are significant gaps; Kalisha Webster noted housing choices need more targeted 
outreach to underrepresented communities; Robert Whitehair noted the need for further improvements to the 
process; G. Plato cited traffic congestion as an issue; Karen Herrell is sympathetic to the need for everyone to be 
represented; Kelly Moran agreed with comments from Adam Loraine and Lisa Diaz Nash; Ben T stated a need to 
review how outreach to past participants was done; Laurianna Ceja Diaz stated a need to provide the Community 
Development Department with the support they require; Seema Patel the need for demographics representing 
input; Mark Grieco noted the need to avoid analysis paralysis; David Bohannon stated he is keenly following the 
GP and had question about how the General Plan embraces future RHNA cycles; Michael Weinhauer noted this 
effort is a Gordonian Knot and noted the complexity of the Survey; and Jordan Grimes stated the need to go door-
to-door in North Central, Shoreview, and specifically the apartments.
Council asked additional questions of staff and discussion ensued on next steps including: 1) A City-wide 
informational canvassing effort; 2) Canvassing for input; or 3) a targeted approach in communities whose views 
may not be being taken into consideration. Council was in favor of a targeted outreach effort and encouraged staff 
to think through the best way to accomplish that especially in regard to reaching residents in which English is not 
the first language, renters, lower income and younger residents.
10:47 pm Council recessed and reconvened at 10:55.
14.
Fallen Heroes Memorial – Criteria Approval and Appropriation
City Clerk Patrice Olds and Fallen Heroes Memorial Committee Chair Maureen Freschet presented information on 
the need for Council adopted criteria to provide guidance for who will be recognized on the Memorial and 
requested that Council consider a seed donation to kick-off the fundraising campaign to build the Memorial, 
estimated to be $300,000. Council had no questions. Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Motion to Adopt a Resolution after consideration to appropriate $50,000 as a donation for the Fallen Heroes 
Memorial construction fundraising effort; and approve the Fallen Heroes Memorial Recognition Policy. Motion 
passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 44 (2021)
15.
Ordinance Introduction – “Short-Term Rentals” Amendment – CONTINUED TO A FUTURE MEETING
This item was not heard due to the lateness of the hour. No action was taken to introduce an Ordinance to amend 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.66 “Short Term Rentals” (STR) to clarify that only properties where the host is not 
present have an annual limit on the number of days they can be rented, that STR properties do not need to be the 
owner’s primary residence, and that accessory dwelling units cannot be used for short-term rentals. 
16.
COVID-19 Update – CONTINUED TO A FUTURE MEETING
This item was not heard due to the lateness of the hour. No action was taken or receive an update on operational 
impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and regulations issued by the City Manager 
acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency.
NEW BUSINESS
12 of 734

--- page 13 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 05/17/2021
Page 5
17.
2021 Wastewater Revenue Notes to Finance Clean Water Program Costs and 2021 Wastewater Revenue Bonds to 
Refund Sewer Revenue Bonds 2011 Series A – Approval 
Adopt a Resolution to approve the documents and actions relating to the sale of 2021 Wastewater Revenue Notes, 
Series B by the San Mateo-Foster City Public Financing Authority in the maximum amount of $295,480,000 to 
finance Clean Water Program capital costs related to wastewater treatment plant and sewer collection 
improvement projects and the sale of 2021 Wastewater Revenue Bonds, Refunding Series A in the maximum 
amount of $25,000,000 to refund the City of San Mateo Sewer Revenue Bonds, 2011 Series A.
Moved:
Bonilla, Seconded: Papan
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 45 (2021)
18.
“Property Maintenance” Code Amendment – Ordinance Introduction – CONTINUED TO A FUTURE MEETING
This item was not heard due to the lateness of the hour. No action was taken to introduce an Ordinance to amend 
San Mateo Municipal Code Section 7.14 “Property Maintenance” to adopt the 2021 International Property 
Maintenance Code and comply with the California Health and Safety Code. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for 
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT – the meeting adjourned at 11:19 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
13 of 734

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4609-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 7, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – Electronic Campaign Statement Filing Requirement Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an uncodified ordinance to update the existing ordinance requiring electronic filing of campaign statements. 
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance Introduction date: May 17, 2021
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
14 of 734

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
AN UNCODIFIED ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AMENDING THE CITY’S 
ORDINANCE REQUIRING ELECTRONIC FILING OF CAMPAIGN STATEMENTS
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 84615 currently provides that a local agency may adopt an 
ordinance to require an elected officer, candidate, committee, or other person required to file campaign 
disclosure statements, required by Chapter 4 of the Political Reform Act (commencing with Section 84100 of the 
Government Code); and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of San Mateo previously adopted an ordinance requiring 
electronic filing of campaign disclosure statements (the “Ordinance”); and
WHEREAS, the City has entered into an agreement with Secretary of State-approved vendor , to provide 
an online electronic filing system (“System”) for campaign disclosure statements and wishes to remove the 
Ordinance’s original reference to a specific vendor; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to update the dollar limit at which electronic filing of campaign disclosure 
statements is required in order to comport with Government Code Sections 84200 and following:
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO FINDS AND ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
(a) The System will operate securely and effectively and will not unduly burden filers.
(b) Specifically: 
(1) the System will ensure the integrity of the data and includes safeguards against efforts to 
tamper with, manipulate, alter, or subvert data;
(2) the System will only accept a filing the standardized record format developed by the 
Secretary of State and compatible with the Secretary of State’s system for receiving an online or 
electronic filing; and
(3) the System will be available free of charge to filers and to the public for viewing filings.
Section 1. Electronic Filing of Campaign Statements
(a) Any elected officer, candidate, committee or other person required to file statements, required by 
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 84100 of the Government Code), except an elected officer, candidate, 
committee or other person who receives contributions totaling less than one thousand dollars ($2,000), or 
makes expenditures totaling less than one thousand dollars ($2,000), in a calendar year shall file those 
statements, online or electronically with the City Clerk. 
(b) In any instance in which an original statement, report or other document must be filed with the 
California Secretary of State and a copy of that statement, report or other document is required to be filed with 
the City Clerk, the filer may, but is not required to, file the copy electronically. 
15 of 734

--- page 16 ---
(c) If the City Clerk’s electronic system is not capable of accepting a particular type of statement, report 
or other document, an elected officer, candidate, committee or other person shall file that document with the 
City Clerk in an alternative format.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15378(b)(5), this action is categorically exempt from (CEQA) as an administrative activity that 
will not result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment.
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 2004-15 § 1, 2004).
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
introduced on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
16 of 734

--- page 17 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4616
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 7, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Introduction – “Claims for Tax Refunds” Chapter Amendments Including Electronic Claims Filing
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend Municipal Code Chapter 3.35 "Claims for Tax Refunds" to provide for other forms of 
claims and to authorize the electronic filing of claims. 
BACKGROUND:
During the past year, the City has transitioned many of its processes to an electronic or on-line submittal, such as for on-
line permitting applications and business tax applications and renewals. These electronic processes have allowed for more 
efficient processes that can take advantage of automation, such as automatic routing through a workflow, customer 
confirmation of receipt, and creating a digital time stamp to travel with the record that the City can use to track metrics for 
accountability and responsiveness. With recent state law changes, cities are now allowed to receive claims for damages 
electronically. 
Senate Bill 1473, Local Government Omnibus Act of 2020, has amended Government Code Sections 915, 915.2, and 915.4 
to authorize the electronic submission of claims against a city if authorized by city resolution or ordinance. The current 
procedure, as outlined in Municipal Code Chapter 3.35 “Claims for Tax Refunds,” allows for the receipt of written claims. 
The proposed new language includes language that written claims may include electronic claims. 
As this section is used for more than tax refund claims, it is recommended to change the title from “Claims for Tax 
Refunds” to “Claims.” Amending this section of the code will allow the City to begin an electronic process for claims 
receipt.
In addition, staff recommends a few other minor edits to the Chapter, which are:
1)
Replacing references to “Tort Claims Act” with references to “Government Claims Act;” and
2)
Removing an invalid cross-reference.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for this administrative action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This proposed ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
17 of 734

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
18 of 734

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER HEADING OF 3.35 TO REMOVE SPECIFIC REFERENCE TO TAX REFUNDS AND SECTION 
3.35.030, “FORM OF CLAIMS,” OF THE SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE TO PROVIDE FOR ELECTRONIC CLAIMS
WHEREAS, The City’s claims procedure is currently set forth in Chapter 3.35 of the City’s Municipal Code; 
and
WHEREAS, The heading of Chapter 3.35 is currently “Claims for Tax Refunds” and should be “Claims;” 
and
WHEREAS, Senate Bill 1473 has amended Government Code Sections 915, 915.2 and 915.4 to authorize 
the electronic submission of claims against a city can be submitted electronically if authorized by city resolution 
or ordinance; and
WHEREAS, The City of San Mateo has a claims-filing procedure codified in Chapter 3.35 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code; 
WHEREAS, The City of San Mateo wishes to authorize the electronic filing of claims; 
WHEREAS, Because Government Code Sections 900 and following are now commonly referred to as the 
“Government Claims Act,” the City of San Mateo wishes to update references to the “Tort Claims Act” with 
references to the “Government Claims Act;” and
WHEREAS, The City of San Mateo wishes to make other minor editorial edits;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. The heading of Chapter 3.35 is amended to read: “Claims.”
Section 2. Section 3.35.020 is amended as follows:
3.35.020 Claims Required
All claims against the City for money or damages not otherwise governed by the Government Claims Act, 
codified at Government Code Sections 900 and following,  or another state law (hereinafter in this Chapter, 
“Claims”) shall be presented within the time, and in the manner, prescribed by Part 3 of Division 3.6 of Title 1 of 
the California Government Code (commencing with Section 900 thereof) for the claims to which that Part 
applies by its own terms, as those provisions now exist or shall be hereafter amended, and as further provided 
by this Chapter.
Section 3. Section 03.35.030 is amended as follows:
19 of 734

--- page 20 ---
03.35.030 Form of Claim
All claims shall be made in writing, which may include electronic transmissions, and verified by the 
claimant or by his or her guardian, conservator, executor or administrator. No claim may be filed on behalf of a 
class of persons unless verified by every member of that class as required by this section. In addition, all claims 
shall contain the information required by California Government Code Section 910.
Section 4. Section 3.35.040 is amended as follows:
3.35.040 Claim Prerequisite to Suit
In accordance with California Government Code Sections 935(b) and 945.6, all claims shall be presented 
prior to the filing of any action on such claims and no such action may be maintained by a person who has not 
complied with the requirements of this Chapter.
Section 5. Environmental Determination. This proposed ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is 
an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
Section 6. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 7. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 8. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
20 of 734

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4704
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Senior Transportation “Get Around” Program – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to find that calling for bids is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible and award an agreement to Serra 
Yellow Cab, Inc. for the Get Around Senior Transportation Project up to the amount of $150,000 for fiscal year 2021-22, 
with an option for the City to extend for an additional year, and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute 
the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Get Around Senior Transportation program has been operated by the Parks and Recreation Department since January 
1, 2018. Currently there are over 400 seniors signed up for the Get Around program, and over the past year and a half, the 
program has supplied 3,000 low-cost cab trips to San Mateo seniors. The program has had two pilot programs, many focus 
groups, two comprehensive surveys, and many happy patrons.
In 2021, the success of the program resulted in the City receiving the C/CAG Lifeline Transportation Program grant. The 
current transportation vendor, Serra Yellow Cab Company, provides on-demand transportation services for City of San 
Mateo residents aged 60+ years. Each month, riders receive eight one-way trips or four round-trips to destinations within 
the cities of San Mateo, Burlingame, Foster City, Belmont, Hillsborough, San Carlos and Redwood City. Riders can also take 
trips to the Veteran’s Administration Medical Campus in Menlo Park and Palo Alto and Stanford University Medical Center. 
All rides must begin or end in the City of San Mateo.
Serra Cab was selected as the current transportation vendor because they are well equipped to service the local senior 
population. Serra Cab has a large fleet of cabs that include vehicles equipped to carry both wheelchairs and scooters. They 
provide overflow transportation services to the SamTrans “Ready Wheels” program, which requires them to train their 
drivers to handle senior and disabled passengers’ needs. All of Serra Cabs vehicles are equipped with the “Cab Connect” 
tracking system that can accurately track start and end of travel locations, distance traveled, and the billing information. 
Serra Cab is the only cab company that has a permit to operate in San Mateo with capacity to manage the program. Their 
fleet consists of over 150 cabs, up to 125 of which are in service and on the road at peak transportation times. They have 
over 20 cabs that are equipped to transport scooters and wheelchairs. They also offer service to all nine cities that the 
program services. The other four permitted taxi companies in the City of San Mateo lack the capacity to service the 
program.
Per City’s purchasing ordinance (3.60.050 Exceptions (b)), it is possible to award an agreement without the required RFP 
(Request for Proposal) procedure if it is deemed impracticable, unavailing, or impossible to call for bids through a 
competitive process. Staff has determined that no other transportation companies that are licensed by the City of San 
Mateo have the necessary fleet size to meet the requirements of the contract.
21 of 734

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for the project is appropriated from a combination of a grant from C/CAG Lifeline Transportation Program and 
Measure S. Funds available exceed the $150,000 required by the agreement.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This award of an agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Nicholas Tsiorvas, Business Manager
ntsiorvas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7408
22 of 734

--- page 23 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
APPROVING ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR AN AGREEMENT WITH SERRA YELLOW CAB FOR 
“GET AROUND” SENIORS TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
  
WHEREAS, Get Around (the “Project”), which has been operated by the Parks and Recreation 
Department since January 1, 2018 and provides low cost cab trips to over 400 San Mateo seniors, and over the 
past year and a half the program has supplied 3000 low cost cab trips to San Mateo seniors; and 
  
WHEREAS, the competitive process required by the Purchasing policy for Professional Services over 
$100,000 is impracticable as of the taxi operators with a City of San Mateo Business License, Serra Yellow Cabs is 
the only practical applicant as they have over 125 vehicles in operation whereas other licensed operators have 
no more than 10; and 
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.050 (b) agreements may be awarded without 
competitive bids if calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing or impossible and the City Council sets 
forth findings designating the reasons; and 
  
WHEREAS, City staff recommends approval of the agreement with Serra Yellow Cabs for $150,000;  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and 
RESOLVES that: 
1.
Environmental Review. This award of an agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is 
an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes 
in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.050 (b), calling for bids would be impracticable 
because:   Serra Yellow Cabs is the only City of San Mateo licensed business operator with enough 
cabs to meet the Get Around Programs requirements
3.
The agreement with Serra Yellow Cabs, for the Get Around Project, in the amount of $150,000 is 
approved. 
4.
The Parks and Recreation Director is authorized to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
submitted, on behalf of the City. 
23 of 734

--- page 24 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
AGREEMENT WITH SERRA YELLOW CAB 
FOR TRANSPORTATION SERVICES 
FOR  
GET AROUND PROJECT 
 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and Serra YELLOW CAB Inc, a CALIFORNIA CORPORATION (CONTRACTOR), whose address 195 
87TH Street, #D, Daly City 94015. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain transportation services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these transportation services by 
reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered 
to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
24 of 734

--- page 25 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on July 1st, 2021 and be 
completed on or about 30 June,2022. The City may extend the contract for one (1) additional year. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount 
UP TO $150,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by 
reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONTRACTOR shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
25 of 734

--- page 26 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONTRACTOR shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
26 of 734

--- page 27 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of 
any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any 
preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
27 of 734

--- page 28 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Sheila Canzian 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th St, 
San Mateo, CA, 94403 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
SERRA YELLOW CAB CAB INC 
Attn:  Talib Salamin 
195 87th St, #D 
Daly City, CA< 94015 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONTRACTOR has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
28 of 734

--- page 29 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
29 of 734

--- page 30 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and SERRA YELLOW CAB CAB INC have executed 
this Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Sheila Canzian 
Director Parks and Recreation 
 
 
 
 
 
SERRA YELLOW CAB INC 
President 
Talib Salamin 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Gabrielle Whelan 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
<Insert Name>  
<Insert Title> 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Fee Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
5/21/2021
5/21/2021
30 of 734

--- page 31 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
The City of San Mateo Senior Transportation Program provides limited on demand transportation 
services for City of San Mateo residents aged 60+ that have been qualified for the program by City of 
San Mateo staff.  
 
The CONTRACTOR will be notified of eligible participants on an as needed basis and prior to the rider’s 
initial call to obtain service from the contractor. The information that will be provided will include the 
name, San Mateo address, phone number of the patron, and if the patron requires a specific type of 
assisted transportation. 
 
The CONTRACTOR will use the Cab Connect software system to track all of the rides. The City of San 
Mateo will provide all “Get Around” program cards to the qualified participants. In the event of a 
system failure the Contractor will provide a written voucher for all manually entered rides, this will 
include the start and end points of the trip, the metered amount, and a name and signature of the 
participant who used the trip. All manually entered rides need to be clearly identified on the monthly 
invoice.  
 
Riders are eligible to take one-way trips to any destination within the cities of San Mateo, Burlingame, 
Foster City, Belmont, Hillsborough, San Carlos and Redwood City. All trips will start or end in the City of 
San Mateo.  Riders can also make direct trips to the Veterans Administration Medical Campus - Menlo 
Park Division (795 Willow Road, 94025) and Veterans Administration Medical Campus -Palo Alto 
Division (3801 Miranda Avenue, 94304) and Stanford University Medical Center and their medical 
offices (300 Pasteur Drive, 94305).  
 
The City of San Mateo will not pay for any rides that start or end outside of the specified program 
boundaries. 
 
The City of San Mateo will retain the right to adjust the number of rides that program participants may 
take including adjusting monthly and yearly maximums. 
  
The CONTRACTOR will provide door-to-door assistance with bags, packages, etc. upon request. 
 
The CONTRACTOR will provide transfer assistance to passengers needing assistance in and out of the 
vehicle upon request. The transfer assistance will be limited to cab to door and door to cab, excludes 
any stairs, and drivers will not carry any patrons.  
 
The CONTRACTOR will provide wheelchair and scooter enabled vehicles upon request. The contractor 
will secure the patron’s wheelchair or scooter to the vehicle.  
 
CONTRACTOR will respond to on demand requests within 30 minutes of the call for standard vehicles 
and up to 45 for wheelchair and scooter-equipped vehicles. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
31 of 734

--- page 32 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
CONTRACTOR will provide background and driving record checks on all employees with direct access to 
riders. 
 
CONTRACTOR will not make any extra stops on any ride. Patrons can bring as many passengers as the 
vehicle is licensed to carry. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
32 of 734

--- page 33 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT RATES 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR will submit an itemized invoice to the CITY by the 20th of each month. 
 
Invoices should be sent to: 
 
San Mateo Parks and Recreation 
 
Attn: Senior Transportation Program 
 
330 West 20th Avenue 
 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
The CITY will send invoiced payment within 30 days of receipt of the invoice. 
 
Payments should be sent to: 
 
Serra Yellow Cab 
 
Attn: Talib Salamin 
 
195 87th Street #D 
 
Daly City, CA 94015 
 
Transportation rates will be charged at the following rates: $3.10 starting fee (flag drop), plus $3 per 
mile, plus 15% service fee.  Any rides that are less than five miles will be charged the five mile ($18.10) 
rate.  An additional $0.30 click charge will be incurred for trips slowed by excessive traffic or other 
uncontrollable circumstances.  The senior patrons will pay the first $5.00 and the remaining fee will be 
paid by the City.  
 
The City of San Mateo will not pay for any gratuity or tipping. Any tips will be left to the rider’s 
discretion. 
 
Prices inclusive of assisted ride or ride requiring mobility equipped vehicle (able to accommodate 
wheel chairs and scooters). 
 
All fees, taxes and services under this Agreement shall not exceed $150,000. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
33 of 734

--- page 34 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONTRACTOR has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONTRACTOR’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONTRACTOR maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONTRACTOR. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONTRACTOR; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONTRACTOR including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONTRACTOR’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONTRACTOR’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONTRACTOR’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
34 of 734

--- page 35 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 12 of 12 
Rev 9/17 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONTRACTOR hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONTRACTOR may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONTRACTOR agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONTRACTOR to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONTRACTOR shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONTRACTOR’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 446CC625-CC31-4610-81F1-ED6F6D1ADE1A
35 of 734

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4698
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Senior Catered Lunch Services Program – Agreement  
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Corporate Cuisine for senior catered lunch services in the amount of $100,000; establish a 
contingency of $10,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the 
form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Parks and Recreation Department has provided congregate lunch meal service at the Senior Center and the Dr. Martin 
Luther King Center for many years. Currently the program serves nearly 10,000 lunches per year. Lunches are provided on 
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays at the Senior Center and on Tuesdays and Thursdays at the King Center.  During the 
COVID 19 pandemic, meals have been distributed through a Grab and Go service at both locations. All meals are 
nutritionally balanced by a dietician and seniors can make a reservation several weeks in advance. The meal service 
provided at the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Center is subsidized through a San Mateo County Aging and Adult Services grant. 
Meals are provided on a contract basis and are prepared off-site and delivered by the vendor. 
On April 26, 2021 a formal Request for Proposal (RFP) Process was posted with all proposals being due by 5:00 p.m. on 
May 10, 2021. Two proposals were received, one from the current vendor, Corporate Cuisine, and the other from Trio 
Community Meals. Trio Community Meals quoted a price of $9.50/meal and Corporate Cuisine quoted a price of 
$10.00/meal. A sampling group, consisting of staff and patrons currently utilizing the Senior Catered Lunch Services 
Program agreed that although the Corporate Cuisine's proposal was $0.50 higher than that of Trio Community Meals, it 
presented far higher value in terms of food preparation, presentation and overall taste. Based on these factors and San 
Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.040(a)(3), which states that the City is not obligated to award contracts to the low 
bidder, staff recommends that the agreement be awarded to Corporate Cuisine, the current Senior Catered Lunch Services 
provider. 
This agreement continues the relationship for the period July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022, with an option to extend 
through to 2023. The cost per meal will be $10.00. Staff is requesting a $10,000 change order contingency in order to 
accommodate additional meals should there be a need.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
The meal service provided at the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Center is subsidized through a San Mateo County Aging and 
Adult Services grant. The county grant pays $5.26 per meal and the senior patrons are asked to pay a suggested donation 
of $4.00.  Patron cost for lunches at the Senior Center is $6.00.  There are sufficient funds budgeted to cover the subsidies 
at both locations.  
36 of 734

--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Nicholas Tsiorvas, Business Manager
ntsiorvas@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7408
Sheila Canzian, Director of Parks and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
37 of 734

--- page 38 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
AGREEMENT WITH CORPORATE CUISINE INC 
FOR  
 Seniors Catered Lunch Services 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and CORPORATE CUISINE INC, a California Corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 
Creekside Grill, 9000 Crow Canyon Road, Suite #610, Danville, CA 94506 
 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain Catering Services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these Catering services by reason of its 
qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONTRACTOR has offered to provide 
the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
.
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 1C112A25-2C58-477B-9CB3-1F29679888C1
38 of 734

--- page 39 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on _July 1, 2021_ and be 
completed on or about _June 30,2022_ with an option to extend for 1 year. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR a fee in an amount 
of $10 per meal. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 1C112A25-2C58-477B-9CB3-1F29679888C1
39 of 734

--- page 40 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 1C112A25-2C58-477B-9CB3-1F29679888C1
40 of 734

--- page 41 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
City of San Mateo  
Parks and Recreation 
Attn: Carolyn Shavel 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 1C112A25-2C58-477B-9CB3-1F29679888C1
41 of 734

--- page 42 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
To CONTRACTOR: 
Corporate Cuisine Inc 
Rossmore Creekside Holdings LLC 
DBA: Creekside Grill;  
DBA  Mochas Café and Grill 
Attn:  Stanley Gedeon 
Creekside Grill 
9000 Crow Canyon Road #610 
Danville, CA 94506 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 1C112A25-2C58-477B-9CB3-1F29679888C1
42 of 734

--- page 43 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and CORPORATE CUISINE INC have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Sheila Canzian 
Director Parks and Recreation 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
 
 
Stan Gedeon 
Its Authorized Agent 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Gabrielle Whelan 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A:  
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B:  
Insurance Requirements 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 1C112A25-2C58-477B-9CB3-1F29679888C1
5/26/2021
5/27/2021
43 of 734

--- page 44 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
The Contractor/Caterer shall provide the following minimum number of meals: 
 
 
 
Monday/Wednesday/Friday – Senior Center 
35 meals 
 
 
Tuesday/Thursday – King Community Center 
40 meals 
 
Meal Component Requirements: Each meal must include: 
 Salad 
 Vegetables – ½ - 1 cup cooked or 1 cup raw leafy vegetable 
 Fruit – ½ cup serving (when served as dessert) 
 Vitamin A - 233 mcg/day 
 Vitamin C – 25 mg/day 
 Bread/Grain -  1-2 servings, at least ½ whole grain 
 Fiber – 7 grams/day 
 Fortified Milk – 8 oz, low fat  
 Sodium – must include sodium count  
 
 Food Delivery 
 Food will be transported to the San Mateo Senior Center or King Community Center by 
approximately 11:30am for final prep by caterer and/or brought to the appropriate 
temperature for serving as required by the San Mateo County Dietician and 
Environmental Health Agency. Food should arrive no earlier than 11:15am and typically 
not after 11:45am.  
 
 Delivery Method: Food to be delivered in either a warming box, chilled box or in a fully 
operable catering van. Upon delivery, Contractor shall transfer food to either the steam 
table or refrigerator (whichever is appropriate.)  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 1C112A25-2C58-477B-9CB3-1F29679888C1
44 of 734

--- page 45 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
EXHIBIT B 
 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 1C112A25-2C58-477B-9CB3-1F29679888C1
45 of 734

--- page 46 ---
Contract for Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 9 
Rev 5/20 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 1C112A25-2C58-477B-9CB3-1F29679888C1
46 of 734

--- page 47 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4664
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Landscape Maintenance Services: Medians, Islands, and Right of Ways - Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Loral Landscaping, Inc. for landscape maintenance of medians, islands, and right of ways 
located within the city limits in the amount of $223,600 for fiscal year 2021-22, with the option for three additional one-
year extensions; establish a contingency of $17,000; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
Loral Landscaping, Inc. is the contractor that has been performing these landscape maintenance services for the past five 
years. The Landscape Resources Division conducted a request for proposal (RFP) this year and received five proposals: 
Bright View Landscape Services, $252,274.62; LandTec Landscaping, $238,500.00; Loral Landscaping, $223,600.00; New 
Image Landscape Company, $707,227.08; and Northern Landscape Management, $227,609.00.   After reviewing the 
proposals, staff decided to interview three of the five companies who submitted proposals based on the following: 

Compliance with RFP specifications 

Size and experience of labor force 

Cost 

Work history 

Fleet and equipment inventory 
Loral Landscaping, Inc. submitted the lowest bid, is City of San Mateo based, and has satisfied the terms of the previous 
agreement. The Parks and Recreation Department has been satisfied with Loral’s past work performance and is familiar 
with their company contacts. Their employees are responsive to issues and concerns from the Landscape Resource 
Division and community members. The Department would like to retain Loral Landscaping to perform this work for fiscal 
year 2021-22, with the option to extend this agreement for up to three additional years. A change order contingency of 
$17,000 (approximately 7.5%) is being requested in order to cover the cost for any service additions or modifications to 
the contract that may be necessary within the next year.  The cost increase of $13,838 for this agreement compared to the 
previous agreement is largely due to the addition of 16 new green infrastructure sites and the removal of glyphosate as a 
maintenance tool for weed control. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The total operating budget approved for the maintenance of medians, islands, and right of ways is sufficient to cover the 
cost of this agreement. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
47 of 734

--- page 48 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement  
STAFF CONTACT
Ron Hostick, Parks and Landscape Manager
rhostick@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7423
Sheila Canzian, Director, Parks and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
48 of 734

--- page 49 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 1 of 8 
Rev. 5/20 
AGREEMENT WITH LORAL LANDSCAPING, INC 
FOR PUBLIC SERVICES 
FOR  
LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE SERVICES  
Medians, Islands, and Right of Ways 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and LORAL LANDSCAPING, INC, a California corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 
704 S Amphlett Blvd, San Mateo, CA 94402. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE services hereinafter described. 
 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these LANDSCAPE 
MAINTENANCE services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONTRACTOR has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth 
herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 ‐ SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
the Notice requesting proposals, Request for Proposals, Specification Book for Landscape Maintenance 
Services, Part I General Provisions, Part II Special Provisions and Part III List of Attachments.  Each of 
those documents are incorporated by reference and constitute part of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 2 ‐ DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws.  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 35660166-E3C6-4A20-92C9-F871998AE201
49 of 734

--- page 50 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 2 of 8 
Rev. 5/20 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.  
 
 
CONTRACTOR or subcontractor shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, or 
engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and qualified to 
perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code.  For the work performed for the 
City, the CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall pay the workers at the prevailing wage rate as 
determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this locality.  This project is subject 
to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations. 
 
SECTION 3 ‐ DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work. 
 
SECTION 4 ‐ TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on July 1, 2021 and be 
completed on or about June 30, 2022.  This Agreement may be extended at the City’s option 
dependent upon performance for up to three additional one‐year terms.  If extended, the parties will 
enter into a written amendment to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 5 ‐ PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR in an amount of $18,633.33, which is 
1/12 of annual amount on a monthly basis upon receipt of an invoice approved by the City in 
accordance with Part II of the Special Provisions of the Specification Book.   
 
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 ‐ OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 35660166-E3C6-4A20-92C9-F871998AE201
50 of 734

--- page 51 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 3 of 8 
Rev. 5/20 
SECTION 8 ‐ CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 ‐ INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 ‐ CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 ‐ INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 ‐ INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 ‐ NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 35660166-E3C6-4A20-92C9-F871998AE201
51 of 734

--- page 52 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 4 of 8 
Rev. 5/20 
SECTION 14 ‐ RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 ‐ WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 ‐ COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 ‐ NON‐DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 ‐ MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed‐upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 35660166-E3C6-4A20-92C9-F871998AE201
52 of 734

--- page 53 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 5 of 8 
Rev. 5/20 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 19 ‐ LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 ‐ NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
 
To CITY: 
Ron Hostick 
City of San Mateo 
2001 Pacific Blvd. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
Loral Landscaping, Inc. 
Attn:  Howard Wheeler 
704 S Amphlett Blvd 
San Mateo, CA 94402 
 
SECTION 21 ‐ AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 22 ‐ GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 35660166-E3C6-4A20-92C9-F871998AE201
53 of 734

--- page 54 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 6 of 8 
Rev. 5/20 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Loral Landscaping, Inc.have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Sheila Canzian 
Director of Parks and Recreation 
 
 
 
 
 
Howard Wheeler 
President 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice  President  plus  an  additional  corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Gabrielle Whelan 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Insurance Requirements  
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 35660166-E3C6-4A20-92C9-F871998AE201
54 of 734

--- page 55 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 7 of 8 
Rev. 5/20 
EXHIBIT A 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial  General  Liability  (CGL):    Insurance  Services  Office  (ISO)  Form  CG  00  01  12  07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products‐completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non‐owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’  Compensation:  as  required  by  the  State  of  California,  with  Statutory  Limits,  and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self‐
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non‐payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision  applies  regardless  of  whether  or  not  the  City  has  received  a  waiver  of  subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self‐Insured Retentions 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 35660166-E3C6-4A20-92C9-F871998AE201
55 of 734

--- page 56 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 8 of 8 
Rev. 5/20 
Any deductibles or self‐insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 35660166-E3C6-4A20-92C9-F871998AE201
56 of 734

--- page 57 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 35660166-E3C6-4A20-92C9-F871998AE201
&nbsp;
57 of&nbsp;734

--- page 58 ---
Certificate Of Completion
Envelope Id: 35660166E3C64A2092C9F871998AE201
Status: Completed
Subject: Please DocuSign: City of San Mateo - Medians/Islands/ROWs
Source Envelope: 
Document Pages: 9
Signatures: 1
Envelope Originator: 
Certificate Pages: 5
Initials: 0
Linda Chang
AutoNav: Enabled
EnvelopeId Stamping: Enabled
Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)
330 W. 20th Avenue
City Clerk's Office
San Mateo, CA  94403
lchang@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 76.14.0.98     
Record Tracking
Status: Original
             5/6/2021 9:43:42 AM
Holder: Linda Chang
             lchang@cityofsanmateo.org
Location: DocuSign
Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Howard Wheeler
Howard@lorallandscaping.com
President
Loral Landscaping
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 45.26.55.80
Sent: 5/6/2021 2:44:18 PM
Viewed: 5/7/2021 7:53:14 AM 
Signed: 5/7/2021 7:59:47 AM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 5/7/2021 7:53:14 AM
      ID: 00dba96c-9294-42ab-9f73-de003b09cb0b
In Person Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Editor Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Agent Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Intermediary Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Certified Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Carbon Copy Events
Status
Timestamp
Ron Hostick
rhostick@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Sent: 5/7/2021 7:59:48 AM
Viewed: 5/7/2021 8:20:19 AM 
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 3/12/2021 3:26:23 PM
      ID: 3afc0476-8e2d-43c1-8ee2-38a28f8e2c84
Kevin Kobayashi
kkobayashi@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Sent: 5/7/2021 7:59:48 AM
Viewed: 5/12/2021 8:42:49 AM 
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 4/27/2021 10:00:02 AM
      ID: 8b1b40fb-55d9-4e11-9b67-4357c630c2e1
Witness Events
Signature
Timestamp
58 of 734

--- page 59 ---
Notary Events
Signature
Timestamp
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Envelope Sent
Hashed/Encrypted
5/6/2021 2:44:18 PM
Certified Delivered
Security Checked
5/7/2021 7:53:14 AM
Signing Complete
Security Checked
5/7/2021 7:59:47 AM
Completed
Security Checked
5/7/2021 7:59:48 AM
Payment Events
Status
Timestamps
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure
59 of 734

--- page 60 ---
CONSUMER DISCLOSURE
From time to time, Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo (we, us or Company) may be required by
law to provide to you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and
conditions for providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through the
DocuSign, Inc. (DocuSign) electronic signing system. Please read the information below
carefully and thoroughly, and if you can access this information electronically to your
satisfaction and agree to these terms and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking
the ‘I agree’ button at the bottom of this document. 
Getting paper copies
At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. You will have the ability to download and print documents we send
to you through the DocuSign system during and immediately after signing session and, if you
elect to create a DocuSign signer account, you may access them for a limited period of time
(usually 30 days) after such documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to
send you paper copies of any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a
$0.00 per-page fee. You may request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the
procedure described below. 
Withdrawing your consent 
If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below. 
Consequences of changing your mind
If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign ‘Withdraw Consent’ form on the signing page of a
DocuSign envelope instead of signing it. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your
consent to receive required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer
be able to use the DocuSign system to receive required notices and consents electronically from
us or to sign electronically documents from us. 
All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically
Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through the DocuSign system all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 6/13/2017 8:08:23 AM
Parties agreed to: Howard Wheeler, Ron Hostick, Kevin Kobayashi
60 of 734

--- page 61 ---
electronically from us. 
How to contact Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo:
You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:
 To contact us by email send messages to: cravi@cityofsanmateo.org
To advise Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo of your new e-mail address 
To let us know of a change in your e-mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in
the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e-mail address.  
We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..  
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc. to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e-mail in the DocuSign system. 
To request paper copies from Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the
body of such request you must state your e-mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any.
To withdraw your consent with Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign session, and on the subsequent
page, select the check-box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the body of such request you
must state your e-mail, full name, US Postal Address, and telephone number. We do not
need any other information from you to withdraw consent..  The consequences of your
withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions may take a longer time
to process.. 
Required hardware and software
Operating Systems: 
Windows® 2000, Windows® XP, Windows
Vista®; Mac OS® X 
Browsers: 
Final release versions of Internet Explorer® 6.0
or above (Windows only); Mozilla Firefox 2.0
or above (Windows and Mac); Safari™ 3.0 or
above (Mac only) 
PDF Reader: 
Acrobat® or similar software may be required
to view and print PDF files 
Screen Resolution: 
800 x 600 minimum 
Enabled Security Settings: 
Allow per session cookies
 
** These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, you will be
asked to re-accept the disclosure. Pre-release (e.g. beta) versions of operating systems and
browsers are not supported. 
Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically
61 of 734

--- page 62 ---
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you were
able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to e-mail
this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or save it for
your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and disclosures
exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above, please let us know
by clicking the ‘I agree’ button below. 
By checking the ‘I agree’ box, I confirm that: 
•
I can access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC CONSUMER DISCLOSURES document; and
 
•
I can print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and
 
•
Until or unless I notify Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo as described above, I consent to
receive from exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures, authorizations,
acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or made
available to me by  Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo during the course of my
relationship with you.
 
62 of 734

--- page 63 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4617
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Animal Control Services – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with the County of San Mateo for continued provision of animal control services for a five-year 
term commencing July 1, 2021, with an estimated cost of $871,467 for the first year and cost to be recalculated annually 
for subsequent years, and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
Animal control is one of the longest running regional/shared services in San Mateo County. Since 1952, the County has 
contracted with the Peninsula Humane Society & Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PHS) for animal control field 
and sheltering services. All 20 cities in the County have in turn contracted with the County for these services. Historically, 
cities have taken advantage of the economies of scale for pooling resources in order to realize lower costs for services than 
each city could likely achieve by providing its own services. The current agreement between the County and PHS is set to 
expire on June 30, 2021.
Animal control services are provided by PHS in a 45,000 square foot building owned by the County at 12 Airport Boulevard 
in San Mateo.  The mandated animal control service functions occur at the County Shelter at Airport Boulevard. Those 
functions include receiving and housing stray animals; serving as the location for the public when looking for lost pets or 
surrendering animals; sheltering animals; spay/neuter clinic; and vaccination clinic. For public convenience, licensing, 
micro-chipping, veterinary care, animal behavior work, and field services staff are at this location and respond to calls for 
service in our community. 
On January 5, 2021 a request for proposals was released to 71 organizations for an Animal Care, Control and Shelter 
Services Contractor serving San Mateo County. City Manager Drew Corbett was involved with the team that developed the 
RFP, and the City of San Mateo has participated in the review of proposals submitted and negotiation of the final 
recommended agreement.  
Two contractors submitted proposals (Peninsula Humane Society & SPCA and Partners in Animal Care & Compassion/Pets 
in Need), which were evaluated by a committee comprised of nine reviewers including a Deputy County Manager, a San 
Mateo County Fiscal Officer, five reviewers from various San Mateo County cities (including Police Chief Ed Barberini), and 
subject matter experts from Los Angeles and San Bernardino. The evaluation determined that both proposals were 
acceptable, however, Peninsula Humane Society & SPCA (PHS) scored higher overall.  
Contract negotiations with PHS were conducted by a team which included the County Manager, County Counsel, the 
County Animal Control Manager, and six city representatives (including City Manager Drew Corbett). Negotiations 
concluded on April 3, 2021 for a contract term of July 1, 2021 – June 30, 2025, in the total amount of $32,548,898.91.  The 
63 of 734

--- page 64 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Peninsula Humane Society has a new Executive Director and is well-positioned to continue to provide animal control 
services for agencies throughout the County for the five-year term.  
Contract Costs
The negotiating team was able to reduce the proposed budget submitted by PHS by $1.6 million over 5 years and increase 
services to the residents of the County from the original RFP proposal. Compared to the current costs, the five-year 
contract represents a reduction of $577,915 in contract costs over 5 years, even with the additional services included. 
One of the major structural changes of the new contract is that it includes invoicing based on actual expenditures as opposed 
to a percent of the contracted budget. The prior contract provided cost savings incentives whereby if PHS saved money from 
its approved budget without compromising service levels, then PHS could keep 50% of those savings, with the other 50% 
returned to member cities and the County to offset program costs.  Instead, the new contract includes an incentive for PHS 
if it meets the enhanced performance measures. There will be no extra cost to the City because this incentive will be covered 
by the savings in the negotiated price.  This means the City of San Mateo will not experience increased contract costs until 
year four, with a 2.4% increase from the present year, and year five, with a 5.1% increase. 
The City of San Mateo’s estimated share of the total contract in fiscal year 2021-22 is $871,467 (Attachment 3).  The 
percentage share for all cities is revisited annually. The number of service calls and sheltering animals generated by each 
city is tracked, and the average of the last three years’ data is used to set the upcoming year’s costs for member cities and 
for the County. Each city’s three-year average usage data are weighted 41% for field services and 59% for shelter services, 
with a credit for animal licensing revenues.
Performance Audit
The agreement provides for an annual performance or fiscal audit if the cities and County agree there is a need to assess 
whether PHS is achieving efficiency and effectiveness in performance of the services provided.  The parameters of the 
audit and cost will be determined by a subgroup of all parties through a County-administered RFP process. That RFP and 
the review process will be coordinated with interested city participants, such as through the San Mateo County City 
Managers’ Association.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for the animal control services agreement is included in the Police Department’s annual operating budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
Att 2 – Estimated FY2021-22 Animal Control Costs 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
64 of 734

--- page 65 ---
1 
 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND 
THE CITIES OF ATHERTON, BELMONT, BRISBANE, BURLINGAME, 
COLMA, DALY CITY, EAST PALO ALTO, FOSTER CITY, HALF MOON BAY, 
HILLSBOROUGH, MENLO PARK, MILLBRAE, PACIFICA, PORTOLA 
VALLEY, REDWOOD CITY, SAN BRUNO, SAN CARLOS, SAN MATEO, 
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, AND WOODSIDE FOR FACILITATION AND 
COORDINATION OF ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICES 
 
 
THIS FACILITATION AND COORDINATION OF ANIMAL CONTROL 
SERVICES AGREEMENT, hereinafter called “Agreement”, entered into this first 
day of July, 2021, by and between the COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, hereinafter 
called “County,” and Atherton, Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, Colma, Daly City, 
East Palo Alto, Foster City, Half Moon Bay, Hillsborough, Menlo Park, Millbrae, 
Pacifica, Portola Valley, Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, 
South San Francisco, and Woodside, each hereinafter individually called a “City” 
and collectively called the “Cities”; 
 
WITNESSETH 
 
WHEREAS, the Cities have passed and are responsible for enforcing 
local ordinances governing the regulation, licensing and impounding of certain 
animals within the territorial limits of the Cities; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Cities and County, hereinafter collectively called “Parties”, 
wish to enter into a written agreement for animal care and control, shelter 
services, and animal licensing, in which the County agrees to facilitate provision 
of and the Cities agree to reimburse the County for the costs of specified animal 
care and control, shelter services, and animal licensing hereinafter set forth, as 
they have done for over 70 years with the current Agreement expiring on June 
30, 2021; and 
 
WHEREAS, in order to facilitate coordinated countywide system of animal 
care and control, shelter services, and animal licensing as desired by Cities, 
County is agreeable to facilitating the provision of such services on the terms and 
conditions as hereinafter set forth; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Cities desire the County facilitate and coordinate animal 
control and licensing on a countywide basis on behalf of the Cities and County 
for a term of 5 years ending on June 30, 2026; and 
 
65 of 734

--- page 66 ---
2 
 
WHEREAS, such agreements are authorized and provided for by Section 
51300, et seq. of the California Government Code and under the Parties 
respective police powers. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY THE PARTIES 
HERETO AS FOLLOWS: 
 
1. 
Exhibits and Attachments 
 
 
 
The following exhibits are attached to this Agreement and incorporated into this 
Agreement by this reference: 
 
Exhibit A— Contract Areas 
Exhibit B— Proportionate Share of Cost 
Attachment 1 – Agreement between County of San Mateo and the Peninsula 
Humane Society and SPCA 
Attachment 2 - Agreement between County of San Mateo and PetData Inc. 
Attachment 3 - Memorandum of Agreement Regarding Funding For 
Construction Of An Animal Care Shelter 
 
 
2. 
Definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1 
Administrative Costs: The actual costs, including, but not limited to, 
salaries, benefits, dispatch, and equipment maintenance, incurred by 
the County to administer the Animal Control Program and Animal 
Licensing Program as outlined in this Agreement in an effort to facilitate 
a coordinated countywide system. 
 
 
 
 
2.2 
Animal Control Contractor: The contractor selected as set forth in 
Section 5.2 of this Agreement, which is specifically charged with 
providing services and enforcing laws relating to h animal care and 
control, shelter services and animal licensing within the territorial limits 
of the County and the Cities and pursuant to the terms of this 
Agreement.  
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Animal Control Program: The program within the Health System of the 
County, or County’s designated contract agent, or both, or such other 
agency as the County of San Mateo Board of Supervisors may 
designate, which is specifically charged with regulating and enforcing 
laws dealing with animal control within the territorial limits of the County. 
 
 
 
 
2.4 
Animal Control Services Agreement or Services Agreement: 
Agreement in which the Animal Control Contractor agrees to perform on 
behalf of Parties and the County agrees to compensate, using County 
and City funds, the Animal Control Contractor for performance of certain 
66 of 734

--- page 67 ---
3 
 
specified animal care, animal control, and shelter services as provided 
for in this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
2.5 
Animal Licensing Contractor: The contractor as set forth in Section 
5.2 of this Agreement, which is specifically charged with administering 
and enforcing laws dealing with animal licensing within the territorial 
limits of the County and the Cities and pursuant to the terms of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
2.6 
Animal Licensing Program: The program within the Health System of 
the County, or County‘s designated contract agent, or both, or such 
other agency as the County of San Mateo Board of Supervisors may 
designate, which is specifically charged with regulating and enforcing 
laws dealing with animal licensing within its jurisdiction. 
 
 
 
 
2.7 
Animal Licensing Services Agreement: Agreement in which the 
Animal Licensing Contractor agrees to perform on behalf of the Parties 
and the County agrees to compensate, with County and City funds, 
Animal Licensing Contractor for performance of certain specified animal 
licensing services as provided for in this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
2.8 
City or Cities: Any or all of the cities listed in Exhibit A, attached and 
incorporated by reference herein. 
 
 
 
 
2.9 
Holidays: Federally designated holidays with the addition of Easter and 
exclusion of Columbus Day, in accordance with the Animal Control 
Contractor’s and Animal Licensing Contractor’s existing labor contracts. 
 
 
 
 
2.10 Impounded Animal: An animal that has been picked up by Animal 
Control Contractor, other public employee or officer, or by a private 
citizen and deposited at the County animal shelter. 
 
 
 
3. 
Each City’s Responsibilities 
 
 
 
 
3.1 
Delivery of Animals. Any animal taken into custody by an employee or 
officer of the County or an employee or officer of a City shall be 
delivered to the Animal Control Contractor at the County animal shelter 
or held in a humane way at a designated holding area until it can be 
picked up by Animal Control Contractor. 
 
 
 
 
3.2 
Uniform Ordinances and Citation Authority. This Agreement is based 
on an expectation that each City will adopt and maintain animal control 
ordinance(s) which are substantially the same as the provisions of 
Chapters 6.04, 6.12, and 6.16 of Title 6 of the San Mateo County 
Ordinance Code, as they currently exist or maybe amended by County 
from time to time, to be effective within each City’s territorial limits. The 
67 of 734

--- page 68 ---
4 
 
fee schedule adopted by each City shall be the same as outlined in 
Chapter 6.04.290, as may be amended by County from time to time,  of 
the San Mateo County Ordinance Code, hereinafter “County 
Ordinance”.  
 
City acknowledges that the County plans to amend its animal control 
ordinances, with the goal for adoption within the next twelve (12) 
months.  
 
Enforcement of provisions of any City’s ordinance to the extent that it 
differs substantially from the County Ordinance, as amended by County 
from time to time, and results in an increase to Animal Control 
Contractor’s costs, shall be reimbursed directly by the City requiring 
additional services, as negotiated between the City requiring additional 
services and the Animal Control Contractor. Provision of services under 
the Animal Control Services Agreement shall take priority over such 
additional services provided separately pursuant to this Section.  
 
 
 
 
3.3 
Designation of Animal Control & License Revenue Collector. Each 
City hereby designates the Health System of the County or County’s 
designated contractor as the entity authorized to collect, at Cities’ cost, 
animal control and licensing revenue on the part of each City. 
 
 
 
 
3.4 
Permits for Public Events. Each City shall request input from the 
Animal Control Contractor prior to issuing permits for public exhibitions 
and events which include animals. The Animal Control Contractor is 
entitled to recover costs directly from the City in which exhibition or 
event will be located which relate to staffing that may result during or 
after the exhibition or event. Such costs will be collected by the Animal 
Control Contractor based on a fee schedule approved by the City in 
which the event is taking place, or as agreed between the Animal 
Control Contractor and the individual City. Any agreement with the 
Animal Control Contractor will require expeditious review of permits and 
input to the City. The provisions of this paragraph do not apply to public 
exhibitions and events where the only animals included in such events 
are anticipated to be service animals or police dogs. 
 
 
 
 
3.5 
City Liaison. Each City shall designate a representative to act as a 
liaison for animal control and licensing administration and enforcement 
issues for when County requests input from the City. If no contact 
person is designated, the City contact person shall be the City Manager. 
 
 
 
 
3.6 
Defense of Dangerous/Vicious Animal Determinations, 
Spay/Neuter Requirements, and Service Animal Designations.  
Parties acknowledge that each City is and will remain solely responsible 
for arranging and conducting hearings under its Dangerous and Vicious 
68 of 734

--- page 69 ---
5 
 
Animal, Spay/Neuter, and Fancier Ordinances, including but not limited 
to providing hearing officers and a location for the hearings. The cost to 
hold the hearing will be the sole responsibility of each City and collection 
of the hearing fee, based on the City’s fee ordinance, will be collected 
and retained by the City. 
 
However, the Parties agree that, at a City’s option and for its 
convenience, a City may utilize County offices and/or the services of the 
County hearing officers for purposes of conducting Dangerous/Vicious 
Animal Hearings under the provisions of each City’s Dangerous and 
Vicious Animal Ordinance, Spay/Neuter Hearings under the provision of 
each City’s Spay/Neuter Ordinance, and/or Fancier Hearings under the 
provision of each City’s Fancier Ordinance. The hearing fee, based on 
the City’s fee ordinance, will be collected from the person requesting the 
hearing by the County under the terms of this Agreement, if possible. If 
such fee is not collected, the City shall remain responsible for such 
costs. 
 
The Parties also recognize that in the event a City elects to utilize the 
services of a County hearing officer, the City remains solely responsible 
for the defense of any appeal of or challenge to an administrative 
decision rendered by the hearing officer. Further, the City remains 
responsible for any claims, damages, costs or other losses resulting 
from any decision, act or omission of the hearing officer acting in the 
course and scope of his or her capacity as hearing officer or from any 
court judgment based on claims, actions or appeals resulting from 
Dangerous/Vicious Animal hearings, decisions or findings; Spay/Neuter 
requirements, 
hearings, 
decisions 
or 
findings; 
and/or 
Fancier 
requirements, hearings, decisions or findings made under each City’s 
ordinances. 
 
Furthermore, the Parties agree that, at a City’s option and for its 
convenience, County offices will issue Service Animal tags and 
Breeder/Fancier Permits on behalf of each City upon County’s 
determination that such tag or permit shall be issued on behalf of the 
City. Each City shall remain responsible for the decision to issue or not 
issue a Service Animal tag and/or issue or not issue a Breeder or 
Fancier Permit and shall remain responsible the defense of any action or 
claim and payment of any claims, damages, costs, or other losses 
resulting from such decision.  
 
 
 
 
3.7 
In consideration of the services that will be coordinated and facilitated by 
County and provided by the Animal Control Contractor and Animal 
Licensing Contractor in accordance with all terms, conditions, and 
specifications set forth herein, and in the exhibits and attachments 
incorporated by reference herein, each City shall pay County based on 
69 of 734

--- page 70 ---
6 
 
the rates and in the manner specified below. 
 
Proportionate Share of Costs. Each City’s proportionate share of the 
cost of services (“Proportionate Share of Costs”) provided under this 
Agreement shall be calculated as a percentage representing: 
 
a. That City’s percentage of total field services provided, averaged 
over the prior three calendar years; 
 
b. That City’s percentage of total shelter services provided, averaged 
over the prior three calendar years; 
 
c. With field services weighted at 41% and shelter services weighted 
at 59%. 
 
Net Program Costs.  Each City shall pay the net program costs 
attributable to that City (“Net Program Costs”) which will be calculated 
as follows: 
 
a. Determine total expenses for all services including Administrative 
Costs as defined in Section 2 of this Agreement and Animal Control 
Contractor and Animal Licensing Contractor costs; 
 
b. Subtract all revenue received, not including licensing revenue; 
 
c. Attribute the balance to each City based on that City’s 
Proportionate Share of Costs. 
 
d. Subtract from each City’s share of the balance the actual licensing 
revenue collected for that City during the previous calendar year.  
 
Annual Invoices. Each City will be invoiced for its Net Program Costs 
as follows: 
 
a. The County will calculate each City’s Proportionate Share of Costs, 
estimate Net Program Costs for the following fiscal year (July 1 – 
June 30), and will send an estimated invoice containing that 
information to each City no later than March 31st of each year; 
 
b. The County will send a final invoice (“Final Invoice”) based on 
actual Net Program Cost to each City no later than December 15th 
of each year; and 
 
c. Each City shall pay the County the amount shown on the Final 
Invoice no later than February 28th of each year. 
 
 
 
70 of 734

--- page 71 ---
7 
 
 
4. 
County Responsibilities 
 
 
 
4.1 
Payments to be paid to Animal Control Contractor and Animal 
Licensing Contractor by the County and each City are as follows:  
 
a. The County will pay Animal Control Contractor the following 
agreed-to amounts. These costs are to be reimbursed by the 
Cities as provided in Section 3.7 above.  
 
Fiscal Year 
Amount 
2021-22 
$6,189,290.95  
2022-23 
$6,327,480.28 
2023-24 
$6,499,455.67 
2024-25 
$6,674,024.00 
2025-26 
$6,858,739.01 
 
b. The County will pay Animal Licensing Contractor the following 
agreed-to amounts. These costs are to be reimbursed by the 
Cities as provided in Section 3.7 above (the table in 4.2 includes 
the payment for the contract Petdata for approximately $192,000). 
 
Current Contract 
2016-2021 
Amount 
One year license 
$4.28 per license 
Multi-year license 
$4.28 for the first year and $2 for each 
additional year 
Late fees collected 
$2.50 collection service fee for each license 
Replacement tags 
$4.28 per tag 
Bank and supply fees 
Actual cost 
 
 
 
 
4.2 
 
The County shall provide the administrative services as outlined in this 
Agreement for the following estimated amounts to be charged to and 
paid by the Cities. Costs may vary as labor negotiations and internal 
service charges are negotiated at a Countywide level. Cities will only be 
invoiced for the actual costs to provide said services as outlined in this 
Agreement and are to be reimbursed by the Cities as provided in 
Section 3.7 above.  
 
Fiscal Year 
Amount 
2021-22 
$790,835 
2022-23 
$790,375 
2023-24 
$814,086 
2024-25 
$822,227 
2025-26 
$846,894 
 
 
71 of 734

--- page 72 ---
8 
 
 
4.3 
In consideration of the payment provided for in Sections 3.7 and 4.2, 
the County shall, for the administrative convenience of the Cities and 
for the purpose of coordinating animal services countywide, provide the 
additional following administrative services: 
 
a. Work with the City Attorney, designated City liaison or City 
Manager of each City on any issues that require input from the City, 
including, but not limited to, during and following the administrative 
hearing process. 
 
b. Collect, maintain, and report available data as requested by each 
City, including, but not limited to, annual Performance Measures. 
 
  The Animal Control Program Manager or designee will monitor the 
performance of the Animal Control Contractor and Animal 
Licensing Contractor and will notify the City Liaison if there is a 
deficiency in service found. A meeting will be scheduled with 
Contractor and City liaisons to discuss a plan to correct the service 
deficiency. 
 
c. With direction from each City, respond on behalf of each City to 
public inquiries regarding the Animal Control Program and the 
Animal Licensing Program. 
 
d. Provide monthly report showing field, shelter, licensing activities, 
and Dangerous Animal Permit holders. 
 
e. Provide dispatch services for after-hours/holiday calls for animal 
control and licensing. 
 
f. Provide radio maintenance services on radio equipment owned by 
the Parties and used to perform services as outlined in Attachment 
1 – Agreement between County of San Mateo and the Peninsula 
Humane Society and SPCA – Attachment M - County-Owned 
Radio Equipment. 
 
g. For the convenience of the Cities, provide animal licensing tags for 
dogs, cats, animals held under a Dangerous Permit, and animals 
designated as Service Animals. 
 
h. For the convenience of the Cities, make reasonable attempts to 
collect and provide collection services for: 
 
1. Animal control fees that are deemed uncollectable by the Animal 
Control Contractor after reasonable efforts by the Contractor to 
collect; and  
72 of 734

--- page 73 ---
9 
 
2. Licensing fees that are deemed uncollectable by the Animal 
Licensing Contractor after reasonable efforts by the Contractor 
to collect; and 
3. Any other fees for services provided to each City under the terms 
of this Agreement. 
 
The County’s cost to provide collection services will be included in 
the administrative cost to facilitate this Agreement. The Cities 
acknowledge and agree that the County is not responsible for any 
fees that remain uncollected after reasonable efforts are made to 
collect. In the event that a City determines that additional collection 
efforts are warranted, it may undertake such efforts at its own 
expense. Any shortfall in revenues caused by uncollected fees 
shall be the responsibility of all Cities based on the proportionate 
share of costs. 
 
i. Annually provide each City with the audit report required and 
completed as outlined in Attachment 1. 
j. Annually, arrange and oversee a performance audit or fiscal 
assessment following the, Generally Accepted Government 
Auditing Standards (GAGAS) to assess whether the Animal Control 
Contractor is achieving efficiency and effectiveness in performance 
of the services provided and provide a copy of the performance 
audit to the Cities. The parameters of the audit and cost will be 
determined by a subgroup of all Parties through a County Request 
for Proposal process. Cities will be invoiced for the actual cost of 
said audit as outlined in Section 3.7 (estimate cost of $81,000 has 
been added to the administrative cost table in section 4.2). 
 
k. For Spay/Neuter Assistance Vouchers:  
1. Allocate one dollar from each annual license fee paid for a dog 
or cat to: 
  i. When funds are available as determined by the County, 
assist pet owners and feral cat advocates with the cost 
to alter the dogs, cats, and feral cats that reside in the 
County on a county wide basis; and 
 
  ii. As funds are available as determined by the County, 
execute outreach efforts to educate residents on the 
responsibilities of owning a pet and the importance of 
altering, vaccinating, and licensing all dogs and cats. 
 
2. Issue, monitor and maintain a dog, cat, and feral cat database, 
allocating funds to the appropriate category of need based on 
the public’s requests. 
73 of 734

--- page 74 ---
10 
 
 
l. Pursuant to Section 3.6 of this Agreement, under the guidelines of 
the US Department of Justice and the Americans With Disabilities 
Act’s definition of “Service Animal” for the administrative 
convenience of each City, and acting as a representative of each 
City, issue Service Animal tags on behalf of each City upon 
determination by the County on behalf of the City that such tag 
shall be issued.  
 
m. If each City’s ordinance so authorizes and the City so requests, 
review and process each City residents’ requests and maintain 
files for Breeders and Fanciers Permits. 
n. Dangerous Animal Designations: 
1. Issue Dangerous Animal tags when an animal has been so 
designated by a peace officer employed by any City or County 
or the Animal Control Contractor as such; and 
2. The County will invoice annually and make reasonable efforts to 
collect applicable fees for Dangerous Animal Permit holders; 
and 
3. Monitor data received from Animal Control Contractor; and 
4. Send monthly updated reports to each City’s representative. 
 
o. Pursuant to Section 3.6, for the administrative convenience of each 
City, and acting as a representative of each City, conduct 
administrative hearings for Dangerous and Vicious Animal 
designations under the guidelines of the applicable City’s 
ordinance. 
p. Pursuant to Section 3.6, for the administrative convenience of each 
City and acting as a representative of each City, conduct 
mandatory spay/neuter and/or fancier permit administrative 
hearings under the guidelines of the applicable City’s ordinance, if 
any. 
q. Provide in-person customer service at a minimum of two County 
locations that are open during normal business hours to enable 
residents the ability to obtain animal licenses and/or permits for all 
dogs and cats. 
 
r. Work with San Mateo County veterinarians to ensure anti-rabies 
vaccination reporting as required by the County. 
 
s. Receive, import, and export licensing and vaccination information 
from the Animal Licensing Contractor into the Animal Control 
Contractor database and vice versa on a weekly basis. 
 
74 of 734

--- page 75 ---
11 
 
t. Under the guidance of the County’s Health Officer, review and 
process requests from pet owners to exempt their pet from the 
requirement to obtain an anti-rabies vaccination as required by 
State law or County ordinance and report annually to the 
Department of Public Health. 
 
u. Invoice animal owners pursuant to the County Fee Schedule 
6.04.290, and similar City fee schedules, following a bite incident 
that requires a quarantine of said animal.   
 
 
 
5. 
General Provisions 
 
 
 
 
5.1 
Existing Agreements. Upon execution of this Agreement, any prior 
existing agreements between the Cities and the County to facilitate and 
coordinate Animal Control and Animal Licensing Services will be 
terminated.  
 
 
 
 
5.2 
Contracting for Services. It is expressly understood and agreed that 
the County will contract with the Peninsula Humane Society and SPCA, 
a California nonprofit public benefit corporation (Animal Control 
Contractor), or such other contractor as the Board of Supervisors and 
Cities may designate, for the provision of Animal Control Services 
including field enforcement, shelter and treatment services referred to 
herein. Additionally, it is expressly understood and agreed that the 
County will contract with PetData, Inc. or such other contractor (Animal 
Licensing Contractor) as the Board of Supervisors and Cities may 
designate, for the provision of Animal Licensing Services.  
 
Shelter Services. Refer to Attachment 1 – Agreement between County 
of San Mateo and the Peninsula Humane Society and SPCA. 
 
Field Services. Refer to Attachment 1 – Agreement between County of 
San Mateo and the Peninsula Humane Society and SPCA. 
 
Veterinary Medical Services. Refer to Attachment 1 – Agreement 
between County of San Mateo and the Peninsula Humane Society and 
SPCA. 
 
Operations. Refer to Attachment 1 – Agreement between County of 
San Mateo and the Peninsula Humane Society and SPCA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3 
Animal Shelter.  
The Parties acknowledge: 
1. That the new Animal Care and Control Shelter has been constructed 
and Contractor Peninsula Humane Society & SPCA is and will be 
occupying it for the term of this Agreement in order to provide animal 
75 of 734

--- page 76 ---
12 
 
control services as set forth in Attachment 1.  
 
2. The Parties have previously entered into a Memorandum of 
Agreement regarding Funding of Construction of an Animal Care 
Shelter, dated September 9, 2014 (“Memorandum”), attached and 
incorporated as Attachment 3. The Parties agree that the total cost of 
the shelter construction project is being updated as provided by Section 
2 of the Memorandum, and the Parties agree that, when available, 
County will provide to Cities the final total cost of the Shelter 
construction which will be paid proportionately by each City as provided 
by the Memorandum. Further, the Parties acknowledge and agree 
that the proportionate share of each City will be amended as provided 
by section 3 of the Memorandum. The Parties acknowledge that 
continued animal control and shelter services to a City as provided 
herein is contingent on that City approving any amended cost and 
paying its proportionate share, as previously agreed in the 
Memorandum”. 
 
 
 
 
 
5.4 
Facilities & Equipment.  
a. If the County chooses, at its own discretion, to replace equipment, 
at reasonable expense, but not to exceed $125,000, that is used 
by the Animal Control Contractor and/or the Animal Licensing 
Contractor solely for the purpose of providing services under this 
Agreement, Cities agree that they will be financially responsible 
for the purchase cost of said equipment based on their 
Proportionate Share of Cost. 
 
In the event that any party asserts that an emergency safety-
related repair is needed to the portions of the County Animal 
Care and Control Shelter located at 12 Airport Boulevard in the 
City of San Mateo that are used to provide contracted animal 
control services and/or the County chooses to replace 
equipment, at its own discretion, and the cost of said equipment 
exceeds $125,000, the Parties agree to meet in good faith to 
determine and agree which maintenance or repairs are required, 
whether or not such repair work shall be undertaken, or if said 
equipment should be replaced. 
 
If the Parties terminate this Agreement or the Parties do not 
renew this Agreement, all Parties agree to be financially 
responsible in their Proportionate Share of Cost as set forth in 
Exhibit B for the remaining cost of any lease for vehicles or 
equipment used by the County’s designated contractor solely for 
the purpose of providing services under this Agreement. 
 
76 of 734

--- page 77 ---
13 
 
b. Animal Control Contractor will send the County a quarterly 
itemized report showing the repairs and maintenance performed 
at the facility.  
 
 
c. If Parties choose to terminate for reasons other than material 
breach of the Animal Control Contractor’s Services Agreement or 
Parties choose not to renew the Animal Control Contractor’s 
Services Agreement, County and Cities shall be financially 
responsible for the remaining cost of any lease for vehicles or 
equipment used by the Animal Control Contractor solely for the 
purpose of the Animal Control Contractor’s Services Agreement. 
 
 
 
5.5 
Fiscal and Program Monitoring. Each City agrees to participate 
annually with County to discuss financial or programmatic issues 
including, but not limited to, licensing activities, revenue sources, 
performance measures, and ordinance revisions. The County or any 
City may request a special meeting for this purpose and upon the 
provision of reasonable notice. 
 
Any changes in the amount to be paid to the Animal Control Contractor 
or the Animal Licensing Contractor shall require the Board of 
Supervisors and the affected City’s approval.  
 
 
 
 
5.6 
Use of Program Revenue. Each City agrees that all fees collected by 
the County and/or the Animal Control Contractor and the Animal 
Licensing Contractor, or both, for the purposes outlined in this 
Agreement shall be retained by the County and used to cover the cost 
of services provided under this Agreement, except for services 
provided directly by or for a City and where fees are collected by said 
City for services provided as described in Section 3.4 and 3.6 of this 
Agreement.  
  
 
 
 
 
5.7 
Maintenance of Records. Records of animals impounded including the 
description of each animal, date of receipt, date and manner of 
disposal, treatment received, the name of the person redeeming or 
adopting the animal, and the fees, charges and proceeds of adoption 
shall be maintained by the County, through the Animal Control 
Contractor, and made available to the Cities. In addition, statistical 
information shall be provided on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis 
to the Cities summarizing various field enforcement and shelter 
activities occurring in each City and shelter activities initiated by 
residents of each City. 
 
 
 
 
5.8 
Term and Termination. Subject to compliance with all terms and 
77 of 734

--- page 78 ---
14 
 
conditions, the term of this Agreement shall be from July 1, 2021 
through June 30, 2026. 
 
Except as otherwise provided by this section, this Agreement may not 
be terminated by any party during the effective period from July 1, 2021 
through June 30, 2026. Each City is responsible for its annual 
percentage share under this Agreement for the entire term of this 
Agreement. 
 
In the event any City fails to pay its percentage share as set forth in this 
Agreement and Exhibit B, every other City shall promptly pay its 
Proportionate Share of Cost of the non-payment, unless and until the 
County is able to recover the non-payment from the late or non-paying 
City. 
 
This Agreement shall automatically terminate in the event of 
termination of the Animal Control Services Agreement. Upon 
termination, the County shall have no further obligation to provide, 
facilitate or coordinate services specified herein or in the Animal 
Control Services Agreement or Animal Licensing Services Agreement.  
Each City shall promptly pay its Proportionate Share of Cost as set 
forth in Exhibit B for all services rendered prior to termination. 
 
 
 
 
5.9 
Amendments: Entire Agreement. Amendments to this Agreement 
must be in writing and approved by the County Board of Supervisors 
and the governing body of each City. This is the entire Agreement 
between the Parties and supersedes any prior written or oral 
agreements inconsistent herewith. 
 
This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Attachments which are 
incorporated herein by this reference, constitutes the entire Agreement 
of the Parties to this Agreement regarding the subject matter of this 
Agreement, and correctly states the rights, duties, and obligations of 
each party as of the Effective Date. In the event that any term, 
condition, provision, requirement, or specification set forth in the body 
of this Agreement conflicts with or is inconsistent with any term, 
condition, provision, requirement, or specification in any Exhibit to this 
Agreement, the provisions of the body of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Any prior agreement, promises, negotiations, or representations, 
whether oral or written, between the parties not expressly stated in this 
Agreement 
are 
superseded. 
All 
subsequent 
modifications 
or 
amendments to this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by the 
Parties. 
 
 
 
 
5.10 
Controlling Law and Venue. The validity of this Agreement and of its 
terms or provisions, the rights and duties of the parties under this 
78 of 734

--- page 79 ---
15 
 
Agreement, the interpretation of this Agreement, the performance of 
this Agreement, and any other dispute of any nature arising out of this 
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California 
without regard to its choice of law rules. Any dispute arising out of this 
Agreement shall be venued either in the San Mateo County Superior 
Court or in the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
California. 
 
 
 
 
5.11 
Additional Services. Nothing contained herein shall preclude any City 
from contracting separately for the provision of a higher level of service. 
Any contract increasing the level of services will be supplemental to this 
Agreement and will not affect the level of service provided for in this 
Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
5.12 
Relationship of Parties. The Parties agree and understand that the 
work/services performed or facilitated under this Agreement are 
performed or facilitated by an independent Contractor, and not by an 
employee of any City and that neither the County, its employees, the 
Animal Control Contractor, or the Animal Licensing Contractor acquire 
any of the rights, privileges, powers, or advantages of City employees, 
and vice versa; however, the County may act as an agent on behalf of 
each City where expressly set forth herein and, in such instances, each 
City shall hold harmless, indemnify and defend the County from and 
against any claims of any kind and/or actions for damages arising out 
of the County’s actions undertaken on behalf of each City as set forth 
herein. 
 
 
 
 
5.13 
Hold Harmless.  
a. Each City shall hold harmless, indemnify and defend the County, 
its officers, employees and agents from and against any and all 
claims, suits or actions of every kind brought for or on account of 
injuries or death of any person or damage to any property of any 
kind whatsoever and whomsoever belonging which arise out of 
the performance or nonperformance of each City’s covenants 
and obligations under this Agreement and which result from the 
negligent or wrongful acts of each City or its officers, employees, 
or agents, including, but not limited to, those claims, suits, or 
actions arising from activities performed by the County as a 
representative of the City as set forth in Sections 3.6 and 4.2. 
 
b. The County shall hold harmless, indemnify and defend each City, 
its officers, employees and agents from and against any and all 
claims, suits or actions of any kind brought for or on account of 
injuries to or death of any person or damage to any property of 
any kind and to whomsoever belonging which arise out of the 
performance or non-performance of the County’s obligations 
79 of 734

--- page 80 ---
16 
 
under this Agreement and which result from the negligent or 
wrongful acts of the County, its officers or employees. This 
provision requiring the County to hold harmless, indemnify and 
defend each City shall expressly not apply to claims, losses, 
liabilities or damages arising from actions or omissions, negligent 
or otherwise, of the Animal Control Contractor or the Animal 
Licensing Contractor, or their officers, employees or agents, 
under the services agreements with the County. Further, this 
provision requiring the County to hold harmless, indemnify and 
defend each City shall not apply to acts or omissions of the 
County done on behalf of each City in performing administrative 
tasks for the convenience of and as representative of each City, 
including but not limited to those set forth in Sections 3.6 and 
4.2. 
 
c. In the event of concurrent negligence of the County, its officers or 
employees, and the City, its officers and employees, the liability 
for any and all claims for injuries or damages to persons and/or 
property or any other loss or costs which arise out of the terms, 
conditions, covenants or responsibilities of this agreement shall 
be apportioned according to the California theory of comparative 
negligence. 
 
d. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the 
Parties acknowledge that with respect to activities performed by 
the Animal Control Contractor or the Animal Licensing Contractor 
in the Cities’ territorial limits, the County serves solely as a 
Contract Administrator and solely with respect to the specific 
obligations contained within this Agreement and the agreements 
between the County and the Animal Control Contractor and the 
Animal Licensing Contractor. Accordingly, in the event the 
County or the Cities are sued and the suit is related in any 
manner to actions taken by the Animal Control Contractor or the 
Animal Licensing Contractor solely in a particular City or the 
Cities, the particular City or Cities, as the case may be, will hold 
harmless, indemnify and defend the County, and any other City 
that is named as a defendant in that suit from and against any 
and all claims, losses or costs. In the event a City or the Cities 
are sued and the suit relates in any manner to actions taken by 
the Animal Control Contractor or the Animal Licensing Contractor 
solely in the unincorporated area of the County, the County will 
hold harmless, indemnify and defend the City or Cities named as 
a defendant or defendants in that suit from and against any and 
all claims, losses or costs. 
 
e. The County agrees that in its Service Agreements with the Animal 
80 of 734

--- page 81 ---
17 
 
Control Contractor, the County will require the Animal Control 
Contractor to indemnify each City to the same extent that the 
County is indemnified and to name each City as a third party 
beneficiary to the County’s Agreements with the Animal Control 
Contractor and/or the Animal Licensing Contractor. 
 
f. These indemnification and hold harmless clauses shall survive 
termination of this Agreement and shall apply whether or not any 
insurance policies shall have been determined to be applicable 
to any of such damages or claims for damages. 
 
 
 
 
5.14 
Non-Discrimination. No person shall illegally be excluded from 
participation in, denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination 
under this Agreement on account of their race, color, religion, national 
origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, ancestry, marital status, 
pregnancy, childbirth or related conditions, medical condition, mental or 
physical disability or veteran’s status.  
 
 
 
 
5.15 
Notices. Any notice, request, demand, or other communication 
required or permitted under this Agreement shall be deemed to be 
properly given when both: (1) transmitted via facsimile to the telephone 
number listed below or transmitted via email to the email address listed 
below; and (2) sent to the physical address listed below by either being 
deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or deposited for 
overnight delivery, charges prepaid, with an established overnight 
courier that provides a tracking number showing confirmation of receipt. 
 
Any notices required by or given pursuant to this Agreement to any City 
shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the Clerk of that City at the 
address of the principal business offices of the respective City listed in 
the introduction of this Agreement or at such other address as any City 
may specify in writing to the County. 
 
In the case of County, to: 
Name/Title: Lori Morton-Feazell, Program Manager of Animal 
Control and Licensing 
Address: 225-37th Avenue San Mateo, CA 94403 
Telephone: 650.573.2623 
Email: lmorton-feazell@smcgov.org 
 
 
 
 
5.16 
Condition Precedent. If this Agreement is not adopted by all twenty 
Cities, it will become null and void in its entirely except that in such an 
event, the County and any of the cities which are in agreement with the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement may use it as the grounds for 
considering an Agreement which may be acceptable to those parties. 
 
 
 
81 of 734

--- page 82 ---
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.17 
Electronic Signature. All Parties agree that this Agreement and future 
documents relating to this Agreement may be digitally signed in 
accordance with California law and the County’s Electronic Signature 
Administrative Memo and the Parties understand and agree that 
electronic signatures shall be deemed as effective as an original 
signature. 
 
 
 
 
5.18 
Counterparts. The Parties may execute this Agreement in one or more 
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of 
which together shall be deemed one and the same instrument. 
 
 
 
82 of 734

--- page 83 ---
19 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San 
Mateo has authorized and directed the Health System Chief to execute this 
Agreement for and on behalf of the County of San Mateo. The Cities of Atherton, 
Belmont, Brisbane, Burlingame, Colma, Daly City, East Palo Alto, Foster City, 
Half Moon Bay, Hillsborough, Menlo Park, Millbrae, Pacifica, Portola Valley, 
Redwood City, San Bruno, San Carlos, San Mateo, South San Francisco, and 
Woodside have caused this Agreement to be subscribed by its duly authorized 
officer and attested by its Clerk. 
 
 
Dated:  
 
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 ____________ 
_____________  
 
 
President, Board of Supervisors  
 
 
 
83 of 734

--- page 84 ---
20 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
TOWN OF ATHERTON 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Town of Atherton, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
84 of 734

--- page 85 ---
21 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF BELMONT 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Belmont, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
85 of 734

--- page 86 ---
22 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF BRISBANE 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Brisbane, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
86 of 734

--- page 87 ---
23 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF BURLINGAME 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Burlingame, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
87 of 734

--- page 88 ---
24 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
TOWN OF COLMA  
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Town of Colma, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
 
88 of 734

--- page 89 ---
25 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF DALY CITY 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Daly City, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
89 of 734

--- page 90 ---
26 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of East Palo Alto, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
90 of 734

--- page 91 ---
27 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF FOSTER CITY 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Foster City, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
91 of 734

--- page 92 ---
28 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF HALF MOON BAY 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Half Moon Bay, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
92 of 734

--- page 93 ---
29 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
TOWN OF HILLSBOROUGH 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Town of Hillsborough, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
 
93 of 734

--- page 94 ---
30 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF MENLO PARK 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Menlo Park, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
94 of 734

--- page 95 ---
31 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF MILLBRAE 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Millbrae, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
95 of 734

--- page 96 ---
32 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF PACIFICA 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Pacifica, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
96 of 734

--- page 97 ---
33 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
TOWN OF PORTOLA VALLEY 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Town of Portola Valley, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
97 of 734

--- page 98 ---
34 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF REDWOOD CITY 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of Redwood City, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
98 of 734

--- page 99 ---
35 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF SAN BRUNO 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of San Bruno, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
99 of 734

--- page 100 ---
36 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF SAN CARLOS 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of San Carlos, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
100 of 734

--- page 101 ---
37 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo, Clerk 
 
By 
 
 
 
 
101 of 734

--- page 102 ---
38 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
CITY OF SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of South San Francisco, Clerk  
By 
 
 
 
 
102 of 734

--- page 103 ---
39 
 
Dated:  
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
TOWN OF WOODSIDE 
 
 
 
_________________________________  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Town of Woodside, Clerk 
 
By 
103 of 734

--- page 104 ---
40 
 
                                      EXHIBIT A 
 
CONTRACT AREAS 
 
The following Cities have contracted for services pursuant to this Agreement: 
 
 
Atherton 
 
Belmont 
 
Brisbane 
 
Burlingame 
 
Colma 
 
Daly City 
 
East Palo Alto 
 
Foster City 
 
Half Moon Bay 
 
Hillsborough 
 
Menlo Park 
 
Millbrae 
 
Pacifica 
 
Portola Valley 
 
Redwood City 
 
San Bruno 
 
San Carlos 
 
San Mateo 
 
South San Francisco 
 
Woodside 
 
 
 
 
 
 
104 of 734

--- page 105 ---
41 
 
EXHIBIT B 
PROPORTIONATE SHARE OF COST 
 
FY 2021-22 Proportionate Share of Cost: 
Atherton 
0.70% 
Belmont 
2.58% 
Brisbane 
0.90% 
Burlingame 
3.74% 
Colma 
0.53% 
Daly City 
10.13% 
East Palo Alto 
8.70% 
Foster City 
2.15% 
Half Moon Bay 
2.50% 
Hillsborough 
1.16% 
Menlo Park 
4.59% 
Millbrae 
1.92% 
Pacifica 
5.07% 
Portola Valley 
0.37% 
Redwood City 
12.55% 
San Bruno 
6.09% 
San Carlos 
3.15% 
San Mateo 
15.61% 
South San Francisco 
10.27% 
Woodside 
1.03% 
County 
6.27% 
 
 
 
 
105 of 734

--- page 106 ---
1 
Agreement No. _________________________ 
AGREEMENT FOR ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL SERVICES BETWEEN THE 
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND PENINSULA HUMANE SOCIETY & SPCA, A 
CALIFORNIA NONPROFIT CORPORATION  
This Agreement is entered into this first day of July, 2021, by and between the County of San Mateo, a 
political subdivision of the state of California, hereinafter called “County,” and Peninsula Humane Society 
& SPCA, a California Nonprofit Corporation, hereinafter called “Contractor.” 
* 
* 
* 
Whereas, pursuant to statutory authority including but not limited to, Section 31000 of the California 
Government Code, Section 31106 of the Food and Agriculture Code, and Sections 14501 and 14503 of 
the Corporations Code, County may contract with independent contractors for the furnishing of animal 
care, control and shelter services to or for County or any Department thereof; and 
Whereas, it is necessary and desirable that Contractor be retained for the purpose of providing Animal 
Care, Control, and Shelter services to the County and participating cities as set forth in this Agreement for 
Animal Care and Control Services (“Agreement”).  
Therefore, it is agreed by the parties to this Agreement as follows: 
1.
Exhibits and Attachments
The following exhibits and attachments are attached to this Agreement and incorporated into this 
Agreement by this reference: 
Exhibit A – Services 
Exhibit B - Payments and Rates 
Exhibit C– Excluded Services 
Exhibit D – Contract Areas (County and Participating Cities) 
Exhibit E – Fees to be Collected for Services Provided 
Exhibit F – Five-Year Budget 
Attachment H - Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Business Associate 
Requirements 
Attachment I - Fingerprinting Certification Form 
Attachment J - Rabies Algorithm 
Attachment K - Animal Shelter Facility Use and Maintenance Agreement 
Attachment L - Peninsula Humane Society Holidays 
Attachment M – County-Owned Radio Equipment 
2.
Services to be performed by Contractor
In consideration of the payments set forth in this Agreement and in Exhibit B, Contractor shall perform 
services for County and Participating Cities listed on Exhibit D in accordance with the terms, conditions, 
and specifications set forth in this Agreement and in Exhibit A, and the other Exhibits and Attachments 
incorporated by reference into this Agreement. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
Attachment 1 – Agreement between County of San Mateo and the Peninsula Humane Society and SPCA
106 of 734

--- page 107 ---
2 
 
3. 
Payments 
In consideration of the services provided by Contractor in accordance with all terms, conditions, and 
specifications set forth in this Agreement and in Exhibit A and other Exhibits and Attachments 
incorporated into this Agreement, County shall make payment to Contractor based on the rates and in the 
manner specified in Exhibit B. Payments shall begin within 45-days after Contractor and County each 
execute this Agreement. 
County reserves the right to withhold payment if County determines that the quantity or quality of the work 
performed is unacceptable. If County exercises this right, it must first provide Contractor with a 30-day 
written notice of intent to withhold payment wherein County describes the nature of the unacceptable 
work and how Contractor’s work fails to conform to the terms of this Agreement. If Contractor fails to 
remedy unacceptable work after having received thirty days prior written notice, then County may delay 
payment until the deficiency is corrected. However, if Contractor reasonably demonstrates that it is not 
feasible to remedy the unacceptable work within thirty days, Contractor shall have up to an additional 
thirty days to remedy the work before payment will be withheld.  
 
In no event shall County’s total fiscal obligation under this Agreement exceed THIRTY TWO MILLION 
FIVE HUNDRED FORTY EIGHT THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED EIGHTY NINE DOLLARS AND NINETY 
ONE CENTS ($32,548,989.91). In the event that the County makes any advance payments, Contractor 
agrees to refund any amounts in excess of the amount owed by the County at the time of contract 
termination or expiration. Contractor is not entitled to payment for work not performed as required by this 
Agreement.  
4. 
Term 
Except as otherwise provided herein, and subject to compliance with all terms and conditions, the term of 
this Agreement shall be from July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2026. The parties may extend the term for an 
additional three years if the parties mutually agree in writing. This Agreement becomes effective only after 
all jurisdictions identified on Exhibit D as Participating Cities adopt it by entering into the agreement for 
animal control services between the County and participating cities. If such County/Services Agreement is 
not adopted by all jurisdictions shown on Exhibit D, this Services Agreement is null and void in its entirety 
unless Contractor and any of the jurisdictions shown on Exhibit D agree to use it as the basis for a 
Services Agreement applicable to those parties providing such written consent, with such changes in 
payment, scope of service, and other terms as the parties may agree.  
5. 
Termination 
This Agreement may be terminated by Contractor or County or designee at any time without a 
requirement of good cause upon 365 days’ advance written notice to the other party. Contractor shall be 
entitled to receive payment for services provided prior to the effective date of termination of the 
Agreement. Such payment shall be the prorated portion of the full payment determined by comparing the 
services actually completed to the services required by the Agreement. The Contractor shall have no right 
to or claim against the County or any Participating City for the balance of the contract amount.  
In the event of a material breach of this Agreement by either party, the other party shall notify the 
breaching party of such material breach and that such breach must be cured within thirty (30) calendar 
days of the notice, except that if the breaching party reasonably demonstrates that it is not feasible to 
cure the breach within thirty (30) calendar days, the breaching party shall have the number of days 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
107 of 734

--- page 108 ---
3 
 
beyond thirty (30) calendar days reasonably needed to cure the breach up to an additional thirty (30) 
calendar days.  
In the event the breaching party does not cure the material breach within the applicable time period, the 
notifying party may immediately terminate this Services Agreement or seek any other applicable legal 
remedies for such material breach. Termination is effective on the date specified in the written notice. In 
any event of termination under this paragraph, Contractor shall be paid for all approved work performed 
prior to termination. Contractor shall have no right to, or claim against County or any contracting City for, 
the balance of the contract amount. 
6. 
Contract Materials 
At the end of the term of this Agreement, or in the event of termination, all finished or unfinished 
documents, data, studies, maps, photographs, reports, and other written materials (collectively referred to 
as “contract materials”) prepared by Contractor in performance of services under this Agreement shall 
become the property of County and shall be promptly delivered to County. Upon termination, Contractor 
may make and retain a copy of such contract materials if permitted by law.  
7. 
Relationship of Parties 
Contractor agrees and understands that the work/services performed under this Agreement are 
performed as an independent contractor and not as an employee of County and that neither Contractor 
nor its employees acquire any of the rights, privileges, powers, or advantages of County employees. 
8. 
Hold Harmless and Indemnification 
Contractor shall hold harmless and indemnify the County, and each Participating City listed in Exhibit D 
as third party beneficiaries of this Agreement, their officers, agents, and employees from all claims, suits 
or actions of every name, kind and description, brought for, or on account of: injuries to or death of any 
person, including but not limited to Contractor or its agents, officers or employees, or damage to property 
of any kind whatsoever and to whomsoever belonging, including but not limited to Contractor or its 
agents, officers, or employees, or any other loss or cost, resulting from the performance or 
nonperformance of any work or obligations required by the Agreement of Contractor; any sanctions, 
penalties, or claims of damages resulting from Contractor’s failure to comply, if applicable, with the 
requirements set forth in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and all 
Federal regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended; and/or from any activities undertaken by 
Contractor, its officers, employees or agents, under this Agreement, and which result from the negligent 
or intentional acts or omissions of Contractor, its officers or employees.  
The duty of Contractor to hold harmless and indemnify as set forth herein, shall include the duty to defend 
as set forth in Section 2778 of the California Civil Code. 
County shall hold harmless and indemnify the Contractor, its officers, agents, and employees from all 
claims, suits or actions of every name, kind and description, brought for, or on account of injuries to or 
death of any person, including but not limited to County or its agents, officers or employees, or damage to 
property of any kind whatsoever and to whomsoever belonging, including but not limited to County or its 
agents, officers, or employees, or any other loss or cost, resulting from the performance or 
nonperformance of any work or obligations required by the Agreement of County; any sanctions, 
penalties, or claims of damages resulting from Contractor’s failure to comply, if applicable, with the 
requirements set forth in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and all 
Federal regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended; and/or from any activities undertaken by 
County, its officers, employees or agents, under this Agreement, and which result from the negligent or 
intentional acts or omissions of County, its officers or employees. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
108 of 734

--- page 109 ---
4 
 
The duty of County to hold harmless and indemnify, as set forth herein, shall include the duty to defend 
as set forth in Section 2778 of the California Civil Code. 
In the event of concurrent negligence of the County, its officers, agents and/or employees, and the 
Contractor, its officers, agents and/or employees, then the liability for any and all claims for injuries or 
damages to persons and/or property or any other loss or costs which arise out of the terms, conditions, 
covenants, promises and responsibilities of this Agreement, shall be apportioned according to the 
California theory of comparative negligence. This provision shall survive termination of this Agreement. 
9. 
Assignability and Subcontracting 
Contractor shall not assign this Agreement or any portion of it to a third party or subcontract with a third 
party to provide services required by Contractor under this Agreement without the prior written consent of 
County. Any such assignment or subcontract without County’s prior written consent shall give County the 
right to automatically and immediately terminate this Agreement without penalty or advance notice. 
10. 
Insurance 
a. General Requirements 
Contractor shall not commence work or be required to commence work under this Agreement unless and 
until all insurance required under this Section has been obtained and such insurance has been approved 
by County’s Risk Management, and Contractor shall use diligence to obtain such insurance and to obtain 
such approval. Contractor shall furnish County with certificates of insurance evidencing the required 
coverage, and there shall be a specific contractual liability endorsement extending Contractor’s coverage 
to include the contractual liability assumed by Contractor pursuant to this Agreement. These certificates 
shall specify or be endorsed to provide that thirty (30) days’ notice must be given, in writing, to County of 
any pending change in the limits of liability or of any cancellation or modification of the policy. 
b. Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance 
Contractor shall have in effect during the entire term of this Agreement workers’ compensation and 
employer’s liability insurance providing full statutory coverage. In signing this Agreement, Contractor 
certifies, as required by Section 1861 of the California Labor Code, that (a) it is aware of the provisions of 
Section 3700 of the California Labor Code, which require every employer to be insured against liability for 
workers’ compensation or to undertake self-insurance in accordance with the provisions of the Labor 
Code, and (b) it will comply with such provisions before commencing the performance of work under this 
Agreement. 
c. Liability Insurance 
Contractor shall take out and maintain during the term of this Agreement such bodily injury liability and 
property damage liability insurance as shall protect Contractor and all of its employees/officers/agents 
while performing work covered by this Agreement from any and all claims for damages for bodily injury, 
including accidental death, as well as any and all claims for property damage which may arise from 
Contractor’s operations under this Agreement, whether such operations be by Contractor, any 
subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of them, or an agent of either of them. 
Such insurance shall be combined single limit bodily injury and property damage for each occurrence and 
shall not be less than the amounts specified below: 
(a) Comprehensive General Liability…  
$1,000,000  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
109 of 734

--- page 110 ---
5 
 
(b) Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance…  
$1,000,000  
 
(c) Professional Liability………………. 
$1,000,000  
County and its officers, agents, and employees and participating cities and their officers, agents and 
employees shall be named as additional insured on any such policies of insurance, which shall also 
contain a provision that (a) the insurance afforded thereby to County and its officers, agents, employees, 
and servants shall be primary insurance to the full limits of liability of the policy and (b) if the County or its 
officers, agents, employees, and servants have other insurance against the loss covered by such a 
policy, such other insurance shall be excess insurance only. 
In the event of the breach of any provision of this Section, or in the event any notice is received which 
indicates any required insurance coverage will be diminished or canceled, County, at its option, may, 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, immediately declare a material 
breach of this Agreement and suspend all further work and payment pursuant to this Agreement. 
11. 
Compliance With Laws 
All services to be performed by Contractor pursuant to this Agreement shall be performed in accordance 
with all applicable Federal, State, County, and municipal laws, ordinances, and regulations, including but 
not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the Federal 
Regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended (if applicable), the Business Associate requirements 
set forth in Attachment H (if attached), the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, and 
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in 
programs and activities receiving any Federal or County financial assistance. Such services shall also be 
performed in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations, including but not limited to 
appropriate licensure, certification regulations, provisions pertaining to confidentiality of records, and 
applicable quality assurance regulations. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement 
and any applicable State, Federal, County, or municipal law or regulation, the requirements of the 
applicable law or regulation will take precedence over the requirements set forth in this Agreement.  
Contractor will timely and accurately complete, sign, and submit all necessary documentation of 
compliance. 
12. 
Non-Discrimination and Other Requirements 
a. General Non-discrimination 
No person shall be denied any services provided pursuant to this Agreement (except as limited by the 
scope of services) on the grounds of race, color, national origin, ancestry, age, disability (physical or 
mental), sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or domestic partner status, religion, political 
beliefs or affiliation, familial or parental status (including pregnancy), medical condition (cancer-related), 
military service, or genetic information. 
b. Equal Employment Opportunity 
Contractor shall ensure equal employment opportunity based on objective standards of recruitment, 
classification, selection, promotion, compensation, performance evaluation, and management relations 
for all employees under this Agreement. Contractor’s equal employment policies shall be made available 
to County upon request. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
110 of 734

--- page 111 ---
6 
 
c. Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 
Contractor shall comply with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, which provides 
that no otherwise qualified individual with a disability shall, solely by reason of a disability, be excluded 
from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in the performance of 
any services this Agreement. This Section applies only to contractors who are providing services to 
members of the public under this Agreement. 
d. Compliance with County’s Equal Benefits Ordinance 
Contractor shall comply with all laws relating to the provision of benefits to its employees and their 
spouses or domestic partners, including, but not limited to, such laws prohibiting discrimination in the 
provision of such benefits on the basis that the spouse or domestic partner of the Contractor’s employee 
is of the same or opposite sex as the employee.  
e. Discrimination Against Individuals with Disabilities 
The nondiscrimination requirements of 41 C.F.R. 60-741.5(a) are incorporated into this Agreement as if 
fully set forth here, and Contractor and any subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 C.F.R. 
60–741.5(a). This regulation prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals on the basis of disability 
and requires affirmative action by covered prime contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance 
in employment qualified individuals with disabilities. 
f. 
History of Discrimination 
Contractor certifies that no finding of discrimination has been issued in the past 365 days against 
Contractor by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the California Department of Fair 
Employment and Housing, or any other investigative entity. If any finding(s) of discrimination have been 
issued against Contractor within the past 365 days by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 
the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing, or other investigative entity, Contractor shall 
provide County with a written explanation of the outcome(s) or remedy for the discrimination prior to 
execution of this Agreement. Failure to comply with this Section shall constitute a material breach of this 
Agreement and subjects the Agreement to immediate termination at the sole option of the County. 
g. Reporting; Violation of Non-discrimination Provisions 
Contractor shall report to the County Manager the filing in any court or with any administrative agency of 
any complaint or allegation of discrimination on any of the bases prohibited by this Section of the 
Agreement or the Section titled “Compliance with Laws”. Such duty shall include reporting of the filing of 
any and all charges with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the California Department of 
Fair Employment and Housing, or any other entity charged with the investigation or adjudication of 
allegations covered by this subsection within 30 days of such filing, provided that within such 30 days 
such entity has not notified Contractor that such charges are dismissed or otherwise unfounded. Such 
notification shall include a general description of the circumstances involved and a general description of 
the kind of discrimination alleged (for example, gender-, sexual orientation-, religion-, or race-based 
discrimination). 
Final adjudication in an appropriate forum determining that a violation of the non-discrimination provisions 
of this Agreement occurred, shall be considered a breach of this Agreement and subject the Contractor to 
penalties, to be determined by the County Manager from among the following: 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
111 of 734

--- page 112 ---
7 
 
i. 
termination of this Agreement; and/or 
ii. 
liquidated damages of $2,500 per violation; and/or 
iii. 
no penalty based on the County Manager determining that the incident does not warrant further 
action; and/or 
iv. 
imposition of other applicable civil remedies and sanctions as provided by law. 
To effectuate the provisions of this Section, the County Manager shall have the authority to offset all or 
any portion of the amount described in this Section against amounts due to Contractor under this 
Agreement or any other agreement between Contractor and County.  
h. Compliance with Living Wage Ordinance 
As required by Chapter 2.88 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code, Contractor certifies all 
contractor(s) and subcontractor(s) obligated under this contract shall fully comply with the provisions of 
the County of San Mateo Living Wage Ordinance, including, but not limited to, paying all Covered 
Employees the current Living Wage and providing notice to all Covered Employees and Subcontractors 
as required under the Ordinance.  
13. 
Compliance with County Employee Jury Service Ordinance 
Contractor shall comply with Chapter 2.85 of the County’s Ordinance Code, which states that Contractor 
shall have and adhere to a written policy providing that its employees, to the extent they are full-time 
employees and live in San Mateo County, shall receive from the Contractor, on an annual basis, no fewer 
than five days of regular pay for jury service in San Mateo County, with jury pay being provided only for 
each day of actual jury service. The policy may provide that such employees deposit any fees received 
for such jury service with Contractor or that the Contractor may deduct from an employee’s regular pay 
the fees received for jury service in San Mateo County. By signing this Agreement, Contractor certifies 
that it has and adheres to a policy consistent with Chapter 2.85. For purposes of this Section, if 
Contractor has no employees in San Mateo County, it is sufficient for Contractor to provide the following 
written statement to County: “For purposes of San Mateo County’s jury service ordinance, Contractor 
certifies that it has no full-time employees who live in San Mateo County. To the extent that it hires any 
such employees during the term of its Agreement with San Mateo County, Contractor shall adopt a policy 
that complies with Chapter 2.85 of the County’s Ordinance Code.” The requirements of Chapter 2.85 do 
not apply if this Agreement’s total value listed in the Section titled “Payments”, is less than one-hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000), but Contractor acknowledges that Chapter 2.85’s requirements will apply if 
this Agreement is amended such that its total value meets or exceeds that threshold amount. 
14. 
Retention of Records; Right to Monitor and Audit 
(a) Contractor shall maintain all required records relating to services provided under this Agreement for 
four (4) years after County makes final payment and all other pending matters are closed, and Contractor 
shall be subject to the examination and/or audit by County, a Federal grantor agency, and the State of 
California. 
(b) Contractor shall comply with all program and fiscal reporting requirements set forth by applicable 
Federal, State, and local agencies and as required by County including additional audit requirements as 
set forth herein. 
(c) Contractor agrees upon reasonable notice to provide to County, to any Federal or State department 
having monitoring or review authority, to County’s authorized representative, and/or to any of their 
respective audit agencies access to and the right to examine all records and documents necessary to 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
112 of 734

--- page 113 ---
8 
 
determine compliance with relevant Federal, State, and local statutes, rules, and regulations, to 
determine compliance with this Agreement, and to evaluate the quality, appropriateness, and timeliness 
of services performed. 
(d) County agrees that if any entity or person makes a request under the California Public Records Act 
(CPRA) or an analogous federal, state, or local law or regulation to the County or a Participating City, of 
which County is aware, for documents or records possessed by Contractor but not by the County or 
Participating City, relating to this Agreement, or documents that Contractor submitted in its response to 
the request for proposals related to this Agreement and marked confidential, or documents related to the 
negotiation, or finalization of this Agreement, County will notify Contractor of such request. If Contractor 
fails to respond within 72 hours, Contractor shall be deemed to stipulate that the requested documents 
are subject to disclosure pursuant to the request and Contractor shall immediately thereafter make copies 
of the documents available to the County or a participating City, as the case may be, for disclosure to the 
requesting party.  
If Contractor responds to the County within 72 hours of such notice by the County and asserts, in writing, 
that exemptions to disclosure requirements under the CPRA apply, and the County or Participating City 
as applicable agrees that such documents are not subject to disclosure, in whole or in part, under the 
CPRA, Contractor shall provide a redacted copy of the documents for County or City to disclose in lieu of 
unredacted documents for any documents that must be disclosed. In the event that County or the 
Participating City disagrees with Contractor’s position that any document or portion thereof is not subject 
to disclosure, in order to prevent disclosure of such documents, Contractor shall promptly and in any case 
within ten (10) calendar days of notice of the request, seek a protective court order for non-disclosure of 
any such records. If Contractor fails to obtain a protective order, such documents may be disclosed by 
County or City. Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless County and Participating Cities for any 
damage, cost or loss caused by Contractor’s decision to assert that such records are, whole or in part, 
not subject to disclosure.  
15. 
Merger Clause; Amendments 
This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Attachments attached to this Agreement and incorporated by 
reference, constitutes the sole Agreement of the parties to this Agreement and correctly states the rights, 
duties, and obligations of each party as of this document’s date. In the event that any term, condition, 
provision, requirement, or specification set forth in the body of this Agreement conflicts with or is 
inconsistent with any term, condition, provision, requirement, or specification in any Exhibit and/or 
Attachment to this Agreement, the provisions of the body of the Agreement shall prevail. Any prior 
agreement, promises, negotiations, or representations between the parties not expressly stated in this 
document are not binding. All subsequent modifications or amendments shall be in writing and signed by 
the parties. 
16. 
Controlling Law; Venue 
The validity of this Agreement and of its terms, the rights and duties of the parties under this Agreement, 
the interpretation of this Agreement, the performance of this Agreement, and any other dispute of any 
nature arising out of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without 
regard to its choice of law or conflict of law rules. Any dispute arising out of this Agreement shall be 
venued either in the San Mateo County Superior Court or in the United States District Court for the 
Northern District of California. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
113 of 734

--- page 114 ---
9 
 
17. 
Notices 
Any notice, request, demand, or other communication required or permitted under this Agreement shall 
be deemed to be properly given when both: (1) transmitted via facsimile to the telephone number listed 
below or transmitted via email to the email address listed below; and (2) sent to the physical address 
listed below by either being deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or deposited for 
overnight delivery, charges prepaid, with an established overnight courier that provides a tracking number 
showing confirmation of receipt. 
In the case of County, to: 
Name/Title: 
Lori Morton-Feazell / Health Services Manager 
Address: 
225-37th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403 
Telephone: 
650-573-3726 
Email: 
lmorton-feazell@smcgov.org 
In the case of Contractor, to: 
Name/Title: 
Anthony Tansimore / President 
Address: 
1450 Rollins Road, Burlingame, CA 94010-2307 
Telephone: 
650-340-7022 ext. 309 
Email: 
atansimore@phs-spca.org 
 
18. 
Electronic Signature 
Both County and Contractor wish to permit this Agreement and future documents relating to this 
Agreement to be digitally signed in accordance with California law and County’s Electronic Signature 
Administrative Memo. Any party to this Agreement may revoke such agreement to permit electronic 
signatures at any time in relation to all future documents by providing notice pursuant to this Agreement. 
19. 
Payment of Permits/Licenses  
Contractor bears responsibility to obtain any license, permit, or approval required from any agency for 
work/services to be performed under this Agreement at Contractor’s own expense prior to 
commencement of said work/services. Failure to do so will result in forfeit of any right to compensation 
under this Agreement. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
114 of 734

--- page 115 ---
10 
 
* 
* 
* 
In witness of and in agreement with this Agreement’s terms, the parties, by their duly authorized 
representatives, affix their respective signatures: 
 
For Contractor: Peninsula Humane Society & SPCA, a California Nonprofit Corporation 
 
 
__________________________ 
Contractor Signature 
_______________ 
Date 
_________________________ 
Contractor Name (please print) 
 
 
 
 
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
President, Board of Supervisors, San Mateo County 
 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clerk of Said Board 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
5/6/2021 | 4:03 PM PDTAnthony Tansimore
115 of 734

--- page 116 ---
11 
 
Exhibit A 
In consideration of the payments set forth in Exhibit B, Contractor shall provide the following services: 
I. COMMON GOALS  
A. All parties agree to work on updating a new animal control ordinance during the next 12 months to 
include the availability of administrative citations. 
B. County and Contractor will provide Participating Cities (as defined in exhibit D to this Agreement) 
with information about the services provided by Contractor and excluded services. In the event the 
County receives a complaint from an official from a Participating City regarding the quantity or quality 
of services provided under this Agreement, the County will promptly forward such complaint to 
Contractor so that the parties may make good faith efforts to promptly resolve the issue and 
Contractor agrees to meet with officials from the County and/or Participating Cities as may be 
necessary to resolve such complaints. 
II. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
A. All policies and procedures shall be developed with the goal of animal welfare, enhancing the cost 
efficiency and quality of services provided to the County and Participating Cities, and to reflect best 
practices in the industry for animal control and care. Contractor’s Policies and Procedures shall be 
annually submitted to a committee of County and Participating City representatives, with committee 
members to be designated by the County Manager or the County Manager’s designee. The 
Contractor and committee members will work in good faith to resolve any differences or concerns 
regarding policies and procedures.  
B. The Contractor must establish comprehensive written policies and procedures for proper care and 
handling of animals. 
C. Such policies and procedures shall address all subjects encompassed by the scope of this 
Agreement, including shelter, veterinary care, and field services. Proper care includes but is not 
limited to, appropriate food and water, regular cleaning of kennels and cages, humane handling, 
veterinary care and a vaccination schedule including rabies vaccinations. 
D. Contractor shall establish policies and procedures in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Standards of Care in Animal Shelters published by the Association of Shelter Veterinarians, ASPCA, 
the Humane Society of the United States, and/or other currently accepted best practices for animal 
sheltering. Policies and Procedures shall focus on these areas:  
1. Medical Health and Physical Well-Being 
2. Euthanasia 
3. Environment  
4. Kennels/Cages 
5. Capacity for Care 
6. Behavioral Health 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
116 of 734

--- page 117 ---
12 
 
E. Contractor shall develop a written disposal procedure, and the procedure shall provide for the 
weekly pick up of dead animals. 
F. Contractor shall create a procedure compliant with California law to ensure that animals entering 
the County Shelter receive vaccinations, dewormer, flea control as appropriate for their species 
excluding animals that are unable to be safely handled or animals that are too sick/injured to receive 
this treatment.  
G. Contractor shall have written policies and procedures on animal placement with a goal of ensuring 
that non-aggressive and healthy or treatable animals that enter the County Shelter are not 
euthanized through redemptions, adoptions and transfers to other organizations. Policies and 
procedures should include guidelines for euthanasia. Terms used in this subsection are to be 
interpreted in accordance with currently enacted California law. 
H. Contractor shall have a procedure addressing how Animal Control Officers will handle complaints 
and the procedure shall include a benchmark for the time it takes between receiving and closing a 
complaint. 
I. Contractor shall have comprehensive written policies and procedures established for proper care 
and handling of animals to include emergency response procedures, how animals will be placed into 
vehicles, how animals will be protected from the heat and cold inside vehicles, and how vehicles will 
be clean and disinfected.  
J. Contractor shall have and apply written disease prevention and response policies and procedures. 
Disease response procedures shall include measures to minimize transmission to unaffected 
animals or people and should ensure appropriate care of the affected animals. Procedures should 
include a treatment plan where decisions are based on a range of appropriate criteria, including the 
ability to safely and humanely provide relief, duration of treatment, prognosis for recovery, the 
likelihood of placement after treatment, the number of animals who must be treated and the expense 
of treatment and resources available for such treatment. 
K. Contractor shall have comprehensive written policies and procedures on Veterinary Medical 
Services. Policies and procedures shall address proper care of injured and sick animals and be  
L. To the extent any of the terms of this Agreement are preempted by State law with regard to animal 
care, custody, transfer, euthanasia, and/or treatment, the parties agree that the terms of this 
Agreement shall continue to apply to full extent possible in conformity with State law.  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
117 of 734

--- page 118 ---
13 
 
III. SHELTER SERVICES 
A. Receiving animals 
Contractor will: 
1. Hold lost and stray animals for the requisite time period as required by State law or 
County ordinance or other applicable local ordinance prior to adoption, owner 
redemption, release to a partner organization, euthanasia, or other disposition.  
2. Ensure that each animal’s individual health status is evaluated and monitored 
beginning at intake and regularly thereafter. If the animal is too unsafe to handle to have 
its health status evaluated a visual evaluation may be done by staff. 
3. Ensure all animals are scanned for a microchip and checked for other identification 
when entering the County Shelter and ensure staff enter into the Chameleon (or any 
successor system) software that the animal was checked for ID. Animals that are unsafe 
to be scanned for a microchip may be excluded.  
4. Solicit information on impounded stray animals. 
5. Evaluate and document each animal’s health at intake.  
6. Provide shelter and care for domestic animals under rabies quarantine, and dangerous 
or vicious animal investigations, according to the applicable City/County ordinance and/or 
State law.  
7. When there is reasonable belief of a person’s or an animal’s exposure to rabies, 
Contractor will immediately notify County Public Health personnel at 650.573.2346, 8am-
5pm, M-F or 650.363.4981 after hours/holidays (or at such other numbers as may be 
designated in writing, from time to time). 
8. If the Contractor plans on using drop boxes for after-hours intake, the drop boxes must 
be checked at least every hour during the hours that drop boxes are utilized for animal 
intake. 
B. Care of animals  
Contractor will:  
1. Provide shelter and care for San Mateo County stray and unwanted animals 24 hours 
a day, 7 days a week, with public service hours designed to benefit the public and 
facilitate the services established in this Agreement, including coordination with other 
agencies (state and local governments, or adoption partner organizations, non-profit 
animal services organizations, etc.) where appropriate.  
2. Provide services as required by the State of California governing shelters for animal 
care, treatment, holding periods, and placements and dispositions. 
3. Microchip all animals designated as Dangerous prior to release if medically appropriate 
and owner is compliant. In the instance of a non-compliant owner, Contractor shall 
attempt at the first annual inspection of the owner’s property to ascertain that the animal 
has in fact been microchipped as required by County Ordinance and shall report their 
findings to County in a timely fashion. 
4. Provide animal food that meets nutritional and medical needs of animals. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
118 of 734

--- page 119 ---
14 
 
5. Contractor will make a best effort to have the County Shelter open by 11 am each day, 
except holidays (as noted in Attachment L - Peninsula Humane Society Holidays), with all 
animal areas intended for public access clean and ready for the public to enter.  
6. Provide County representatives with a master schedule for Animal Care staff upon 
request.  
C. Owner-surrendered animals  
Contractor will: 
1. Provide pet owners with a handout(s) describing alternative solutions to surrender and 
other resources to owners who express a desire to surrender their pets. That handout 
should include contact information for non-profit shelters and rescue groups in the Bay 
Area, as well as information about pet food pantries, low cost veterinary care, etc. 
2. List alternatives to surrendering a pet and links to helpful resources on the Contractor’s 
website. 
D. Identifying animals 
Contractor will: 
1. Make legally required and additional efforts to identify each animal’s rightful owner, 
including, at a minimum, full microchip body scanning of domestic animals for 
identification chips, tracing microchips, licenses, rabies tags and other identification, and 
making several documented attempts in multiple ways (e.g. phone, email, and/or mail) to 
notify the owner in an attempt to return the animal to its owner prior to any other 
disposition. Maintain acumen on and utilize developments in the field that might provide 
new or additional methods for identifying each animal’s rightful owner.  
E. Evaluating animals 
Contractor will: 
1. Ensure that all healthy, non-aggressive, and treatable animals have a plan for a live 
outcome.  
2. Begin assessment of behavior at the time of intake of the animal. An overall behavior 
assessment considers all of the information gathered about the animal, including history, 
behavior during shelter stay, and formal evaluation.  
3. Provide and apply the criteria and evaluation system that will enable objective 
evaluations for animals.  
4. Evaluate all breeds equally to determine if they can be adopted, require behavior 
modification, or allow a partner agency to take the animal prior to euthanasia pursuant to 
State law. 
5. Maintain evaluation records. Document the procedure for each animal in the 
Chameleon software system (or any successor system). If any paper records are also 
kept, retain the records for seven (7) years after disposition of animal.  
6. Perform kennel enrichment programs to reduce stress for sheltered animals.  
7. Place adoptable animals up for adoption or transfer.   
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
119 of 734

--- page 120 ---
15 
 
8. Record all incidents or reports regarding a history of aggressive behavior along with 
the context in which they occurred.  
9. Ensure staff is trained to recognize body language and other behaviors that indicate 
animal stress, pain and suffering as well as behaviors that indicate successful adaptation 
to the shelter environment.  
10. Monitor animals daily in order to detect trends or changes in well-being and respond 
to their behavioral needs.  
F. Length of stay of animals  
Contractor will: 
1. Optimize the animal’s length of stay in the County Shelter. Both positive outcomes and 
cost of sheltering must be considered. 
2. Provide the process to ensure stray and owner-surrendered animals will not remain in 
the County Shelter more than three (3) weeks past the State law-mandated holding 
period.  
G. Rabies testing/exposure 
Contractor will: 
1. Immediately provide San Mateo County Health personnel with contact information for 
relevant Contractor staff in accordance with State and County requirements when there is 
reasonable belief of a person’s or an animal’s exposure to rabies.  
2. Ensure all staff members are trained to identify potential rabies exposures and 
understand the regulations that apply to reporting and managing bites to humans and 
animals.  
3. Provide for testing of animals for rabies pursuant to the current California Rabies 
Compendium. This requires the decapitation of animals and transport of the head or bat 
to the San Mateo County Public Health laboratory for testing. 
4. Ensure that that the rabies specimen is transported to the San Mateo County Public 
Health Laboratory within 48 hours of the animal entering the County Shelter or of being 
euthanized (weekends and holidays excluded). 
5. Ensure that for every animal that comes into the County Shelter, staff will identify 
possible rabies exposures; everyone presenting an animal shall be asked if the animal 
has bitten anyone within the last 10 days or had any contact with wildlife.  
6. Make certain all incoming animals are examined for bite wounds; any animals who 
have potentially been exposed to rabies shall be managed in accordance with the 
California Rabies Compendium and in consultation with state and local health authorities.  
7. Ensure that staff funded by contract who routinely work with companion animals or 
wildlife are offered pre-exposure vaccinations against rabies in accordance with 
recommendations of the Advisory Committee in Immunization Practices.  
H. Disposal of dead animals 
Contractor will: 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
120 of 734

--- page 121 ---
16 
 
1. Accept dead animals brought to the County Shelter by County residents, City and 
County municipalities, or Caltrans and Contractor shall dispose of such animals.  
2. Dispose of dead animals in a lawful manner using an appropriately qualified and 
licensed disposal company or method.  
3. Develop a written disposal procedure that will include at least a weekly pick up of dead 
animals. 
I. Transferring animals into County Shelter 
1. If the Contractor desires to transfer animals into the County Shelter from nearby Bay 
Area animal shelters to assist when such shelters are dealing with an emergency, such 
as a natural disaster, Contractor shall do the following: 
a) Request written approval from the County Program Manager of Animal Control and 
Licensing Manager or other designated County Contract Administrator. The County will 
respond to such requests in writing within 3 business days. In the event of a need to house 
animals for another county during a disaster, the County will respond within 24 hours. If the 
County grants such approval, the written notice of approval will state the maximum number 
of animals the Contractor is allowed to transfer in pursuant to that consent based upon 
factors including available shelter space. Detailed documentation on an appropriate Federal 
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) form will be kept to record, on a daily basis, on the 
number of Contractor staff caring for the animals to include hours worked, along with 
supplies, as well as number of days sheltered for each animal. This will allow for 
reimbursement if declared a federal disaster, or reimbursement from other local jurisdictions.  
b) Periodically, and only as space and resources allow, Contractor may purposefully 
transfer, house or bring into the County shelter animals from another animal shelter, partner 
group or agency within or outside the County to be housed in the County Shelter for the 
purpose of adoption at the Contractor’s other shelter or location only if a monthly report is 
sent to the Program Manager of Animal Control and Licensing or their designee outlining the 
number of animals transferred into the shelter along with each animal’s individual animal 
identification number. If Contractor plans on transferring in more than 30 animals a month 
Contractor will obtain written approval from the Program Manager of Animal Control and 
Licensing or their designee. Contractor will reimburse the County and Participating Cities for 
the costs of vaccines, preventative care, treatment, food, facility use and maintenance, and 
staff time to care for these animals. The cost will be calculated by the number of days that 
animal is housed at the County shelter at the rate of $15 per animal per day. This rate may 
be adjusted annually, based on changes to Consumer Price Index and the Parties will meet 
and confer before the rate is adjusted. In addition to this daily rate, the Contractor will 
reimburse the County and Participating Cities for the actual costs of vaccines, flea treatment, 
dewormer, DTM cultures, canine heartworm and feline FIV/FeLV tests on a per animal basis. 
The Contractor will reimburse the County and Participating Cities each quarter of the fiscal 
year and will provide a report in a form reasonably satisfactory to the County and 
Participating Cities that details the fees owed pursuant to the applicable daily rate and any 
other applicable costs to be reimbursed to the County and Participating Cities. This 
obligation to reimburse the County and the Participating Cities does not apply to situations 
where an animal needs to be transferred in to the County shelter where the animal is held 
because of a bite or potential dangerous dog designation and where the incident occurred in 
San Mateo County, but the animal was first taken to another animal shelter. In such cases, 
the animal shall be classified as a “Transfer in” in the Chameleon software intake statistics. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
121 of 734

--- page 122 ---
17 
 
Contractor will also reimburse the County and Participating Cities at the rate described 
above and shall reimburse the County and Participating Cities for the above-described 
expenses for any animal impounded by the nonprofit for a Cruelty case and housed at the 
County Animal Shelter. Detailed notes by staff must be entered into the Chameleon 
database (or any successor system) and should describe the reason for the animal being 
transfer back into the County shelter.  
 
2. In cases where the Contractor transfers an animal back to the County Shelter for any 
reason, the Contractor will pay for the care of the animal and not use contract funds or 
staff being paid for by the contract. Detailed notes by staff must be entered into the 
Chameleon database and should describe the reason for the transfer back to the County 
shelter.  
J. Working with partner groups 
Contractor will: 
1. Within 6 months of signing this Agreement, develop a Partner Group application for 
any shelter or Partner Group that would like to apply to take animals from the County 
Shelter. The application should also be available on Contractor’s website.  
2. Assign one (1) or more staff members to proactively contact Partner Groups and non-
profit shelters in the County and throughout the Bay Area to encourage them to take 
animals whose medical or behavioral needs exceed available resources or who would 
otherwise be better served by being transferred to a Partner Group or to take animals 
that have been in the County Shelter for more than three (3) weeks past their stray hold 
or owner surrender intake date. If the Contractor desires, animals may be placed prior to 
the expiration of the three (3) week hold period. Contractor will decide which animals will 
be transferred to the Lantos Center for adoption. 
3. As an alternative to euthanizing feral cats when cat caretakers are unavailable, will 
either 1) release the feral cats to an organization that will Trap-Neuter-Return (TNR) the 
cats, 2) TNR the cats themselves, or 3) develop a plan on how to handle feral cats to 
improve the live release rate (e.g. implementing a barn or working cat program).  
K. Vaccinating, deworming, flea prevention, photos, documentation 
Contractor will: 
1. Complete health assessments of dogs and cats within 24 hours of the animal entering 
the County Shelter.  
2. Complete behavioral assessments of dogs and cats within 4 days of the animal 
entering the County Shelter (not including the day of intake). Excluded: Dangerous 
animals, quarantined animals, animals in protective custody, euthanasia requests, exotic 
animals, fowl. 
3. Conduct full body microchip scans and check for other forms of identification at the 
time of intake for all animals that can be safely handled.  
4. Provide a photograph and description of each lost animal through public outreach 
activities (i.e., website) in order to locate the pet’s owner as soon as possible. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
122 of 734

--- page 123 ---
18 
 
5. Document animal’s description (breed, sex, and age), health assessment, initial 
behavioral assessment, microchip, license, rabies, and any other pertinent information in 
Chameleon Data Management System (or any successor system) within 24 hours of 
receiving each animal.  
6. Document complete behavioral assessment results in Chameleon Data Management 
System (or any successor system) within 4 days of receiving each animal (not including 
the day of intake). 
7. Provide vaccinations, dewormers, and flea control when an animal enters the County 
Shelter as appropriate for their species, excluding animals that are unable to be safely 
handled or animals that are too sick/injured to receive this treatment.  
L. Keeping County Shelter clean and disinfected 
Contractor will: 
1. Always maintain the kennel and animal care facilities in a humane and sanitary 
condition with a focus on these areas: 
a) Cleaning and Disinfection. Use of disinfectants should be limited to those that are proven 
safe and effective for animal species sheltered at the County Shelter. 
b) Surfaces and Drainage 
2. Maintain stocks of disinfectants based on accepted industry standards to preserve 
function and effectiveness with regards to temperature and light exposure. 
3. Update all written guidelines/documentation for use of disinfectants to reflect current 
practices as well as industry standards/recommendations. 
4. Staff and volunteers shall receive training when guidelines have been updated and 
documentation of training shall be maintained. 
5. Take commercially reasonable measures to maintain a pest-free shelter. Contractor 
will enter into, pay the costs of, and monitor on a recurring and scheduled contract for 
pest control services in and around the County Shelter.  
6. Have written information available about zoonotic diseases for visitors, adopters and 
foster care providers.  
7. Clearly mark enclosures of animals with suspected zoonotic disease to indicate the 
condition and any necessary precautions.  
8. Provide periodic staff and volunteer training and information on the recognition of 
potentially zoonotic conditions and the means of protecting others from exposure. This 
shall be included in the policy and procedures. 
9. Ensure the public does not have unsupervised access to areas where animals are 
isolated for zoonotic diseases.  
M. Providing enrichment 
Contractor will: 
1. Provide kennel enrichment programs that provide every animal with an opportunity to 
be socialized and reduce stress while in the County Shelter. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
123 of 734

--- page 124 ---
19 
 
N. Euthanasia 
Contractor will: 
1. Provide for the humane euthanasia and disposal of animals determined to be 
unhealthy, aggressive, or untreatable as determined by California law.  
O. Owner-requested euthanasia 
Contractor will: 
1. Follow the basic matrix definition of Owner-Requested Euthanasia. The basic matrix 
definition of Owner -Requested Euthanasia can be found at: 
https://www.shelteranimalscount.org/docs/default-
source/dataresources/sac_basicdatamatrix.pdf 
2. Contractor will pursue all reasonable measures to verify animal ownership prior to 
euthanasia. 
3. Record and classify animals in the Chameleon software and in Live Release Rate 
calculations as “Owner Intended Euthanasia” if they are brought in to the shelter by their 
owners with the specific intention of using the Owner Requested Euthanasia service. 
When an owner wishes to surrender an animal for adoption and that animal is deemed 
unhealthy and untreatable, or aggressive after counseling by Contractor’s staff based on 
information provided by the owner and the owner elects to surrender the animal for 
euthanasia, euthanasia service will be provided and will be classified as “Owner 
Surrender Euthanasia.”    
4. Decline to provide the owner-requested euthanasia service to treatable animals and 
will instead either accept and treat those animals, provide resources so the owner so they 
can keep and treat their animal, or refer the owner to another organization that will assist 
the pet owner, so they can treat the animal.  
5. Offer private owner-requested euthanasia (including pet-owner witnessed euthanasia, 
when requested with regard to non-aggressive animals only) as a service at the County 
Shelter, if the animal is deemed unhealthy and untreatable, or aggressive. 
P. Documentation  
Contractor will: 
1. Accurately complete, sign, and submit all necessary documentation of compliance in a 
timely manner.  
Q. Adoption of animals 
Contractor may: 
1. Arrange adoptions onsite at the County Shelter to reduce the length of stay for animals 
and have other approaches to adoptions such as transferring animals from the County 
Shelter and moving them to their non-profit shelter or partner organizations for adoption. 
There is no set number of animals that need to remain up for adoption at any point in 
time at the County Shelter. 
Contractor will: 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
124 of 734

--- page 125 ---
20 
 
2. Ensure that the public cannot come into contact with, or view, bite quarantine animals 
and aggressive animals that are considered a danger to the public.  
IV. FIELD SERVICES 
A. Respond to field service calls 
Contractor will: 
1. Respond to calls for Animal Field Services 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a 
year as set forth in the below-described priority listing, unless otherwise noted below. 
Notwithstanding any other provision herein, Contractor shall respond on holidays and 
after regular business hours (9pm-7am) to call Priority 1 and 2 categories. If no calls in 
those priorities are pending the staff Contractor will respond to Priority 3 and 4 calls. 
 
2. Contractor may receive and accept requests for service in person, via phone, email, 
text message, voicemail or fax. Contractor will have policies and processes in place to 
ensure that text messages, emails, voicemails and faxes are monitored and retrieved in a 
routine and timely  fashion. 
B. Priority for Field Activities 
1. Priority 1: Immediately respond to all emergency calls of the following types within 
one (1) hour of the receipt of the call from the reporting party: 
a) Imminent threat to a person by an aggressive domestic, exotic or wild animal 
b) A Public Safety agency request for immediate assistance  
c) Possible rabid animal 
d) Aggressive dog at large, or an aggressive dog that could cause harm to a human or an 
animal (e.g., an aggressive dog breaking out of a yard or has access off the property) 
e) A dog that has bitten a human or that has attacked another animal and that remains at 
large  
f) Major injury to dog, cat, or domestic animal 
g) An animal in hot car or an animal that is otherwise in immediate danger  
h) Dangerous animal permit violation that has occurred and the same animal remains a 
threat to person or property  
i) Animals at large causing a traffic hazard (including livestock) 
j) Rescue animals when the animal’s life is in danger  
k) Dogs harassing livestock if the livestock’s life is in danger 
l) When juveniles are present at a school grounds any bat, any aggressive animal, animal 
posing a risk to humans, sick or injured animals, dogs at large, or confined or trapped animal 
are present on the school grounds. 
m) Request by a Public Safety Official or Fish & Wildlife officer to respond to a mountain lion 
or an escaped exotic animal that is an imminent threat to a person. Handling of these 
situations will be a joint response between the requestor and the Contractor. Contractor will 
be acting in an advisory capacity. Contractor is responsible for arranging a third party to 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
125 of 734

--- page 126 ---
21 
 
handle, transport and/or care for exotic animals. If a third party is retained by Contractor, 
said third party shall have lead advisory responsibilities. Public Safety Officials and/or 
Contractor will determine if Fish and Wildlife need to respond to the scene. Contractor will 
remain on the scene with requesting Public Safety Official until situation is resolved. 
2. Priority 2: Respond without unnecessary delay, within (4) hours of receipt of the call 
from the reporting party: 
a) Dog, cat or domestic animal sick, or with minor injury  
b) Sick or injured wildlife  
c) All non-threatening Dangerous Animal permit violations  
d) Dog or cat in trap 
e) Animal in custody (stray confined) 
f) Pack of dogs 
g) Dead animal at a school between 7:00 AM and 8:00 PM (excluding holidays) 
3. Priority 3: Respond without unnecessary delay within a maximum of 18 hours of 
receipt of the call from the reporting party and as soon as reasonably possible 
beforehand to the following situations: 
a) Animal at large (non-aggressive and non-threatening) in violation of local ordinance 
b) Rescue animals when the animal’s life is not in danger 
c) Reports of animal bites or attacks where there is no longer an animal at large which is an 
immediate threat to persons or property.  
d) Dead animal pick-up 
e) Animal bite quarantines 
4. Priority 4: Respond without unnecessary delay within 24 hours of receipt of the call 
from the reporting party: 
a) Stray patrol request 
b) Owned animal for relinquishment (based on special circumstances or special hardship 
situation) 
5. Priority 5: If there are no calls pending in the other priority categories: 
a) Officers will patrol City and County parks and neighborhoods in areas accessible by 
Contractor’s vehicle, and will maintain a patrol of no farther 500 yards from the vehicle. 
6. Ensure that Animal Control and Humane Officers shall impound stray or confined dogs 
and cats and return them to the owner in the field, or transport to the animal to the 
shelter, as deemed appropriate by the Officer. 
7. Provide a master schedule for Animal Control staff. 
C. Enforcement of state and local animal control laws; Municipal code violations  
Contractor will: 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
126 of 734

--- page 127 ---
22 
 
1. Enforce all County and City ordinances pertaining to animals as outlined in Chapters 
6.04, 6.12 and 6.16 of Title 6 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code and enforce 
state statutes where applicable, except for number of animals per household or barking 
dogs, which are referred to the respective overseeing agency (code enforcement or law 
enforcement). 
2. Uniform Ordinances and Citation Authority. County shall encourage the 
Participating City jurisdictions shown on Exhibit D to adopt and maintain animal control 
ordinances and fee schedules that are materially equivalent to the County’s animal 
control ordinance and fee schedule. The animal control ordinances for all jurisdictions 
shown on Exhibit D should be substantially the same as the provisions of Chapters 6.04, 
6.12, and 6.16 of Title 6 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code, as amended, to be 
effective within the city limits. The fee schedule shall be the same as outlined in Chapter 
6.04.290 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code.  
3. Enforcement of city ordinances which differ materially from the County ordinance need 
not be enforced by Contractor unless Contractor agrees that the ordinance does not 
conflict with its mission, and the city and Contractor mutually agree on the cost of 
services. Participating Cities agree to provide notice to Contractor of any changes to their 
City codes that would relate to additional or different Contractor responsibilities under this 
Agreement.  
4. Upon request by a Participating City, the County, or residents of a Participating City or 
the unincorporated County, investigate complaints of animal related public nuisances, to 
those ordinance code violations enumerated in Chapter 6.04 of Title 6 of the San Mateo 
County Ordinance Code and similar city ordinances, with the exception of complaints 
regarding barking dogs.  
D. Citations 
Contractor will: 
1. Develop a voidable animal license citation process for license violations, that affords 
the animal owner 30 days in which to register for a license and have the citation voided. 
Specifically, on all complaints involving stray or loose animals, municipal complaints and 
quarantines etc., if the animal owner living in San Mateo County does not have their 
animal licensed in San Mateo County, the Animal Control Officer (“ACO”) will issue a 
voidable license citation to the animal owner. 
2. Ensure that ACO/Humane Officers issue administrative and non-administrative 
citations for City, County or State violations. Written warnings can be issued for first 
offense minor violations only if the ACO/Humane Officers follow up within two weeks to 
ensure compliance with the written warning. 
3. Record all citations and written warnings in the Chameleon (or any successor system) 
software system. 
E. Impoundment of animals 
Contractor will: 
1. Impound all dogs caught at large, scan all dogs and cats, that are safe to handle, for 
microchips in the field and provide for field return to owner as deemed appropriate by the 
Animal Control Officer.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
127 of 734

--- page 128 ---
23 
 
2. Except when responding to a Priority 1 or Priority 2 call or when responding to a 
Priority 3 or Priority 4 call in order to meet expected response times, ensure that when 
Animal Control Officers observe a violation of the Participating City or County ordinance, 
the Animal Control Officer will stop, contact the animal owners, and take appropriate 
actions, such as a written warning for first offense, or the issuing of a citation for 
subsequent violations.  
3. Investigate and follow up with impoundment, citation, search and seizure warrant for 
animal bites, vicious/dangerous animals, and attacks in conjunction with respective City 
Attorney or County Counsel and/or County District Attorney.  
4. Contractor shall impound animals in the regular course of its enforcement of City and 
County ordinances as necessary to protect the safety of persons and property, or the 
animal.  In addition to its ordinary impoundment responsibilities under this Agreement, if 
Contractor receives a specific request from a City and/or County law enforcement 
agency, Contractor shall promptly impound any animal, whether the animal is on public or 
private property.  Contractor shall obtain any necessary consent or warrant as required 
by law for all impoundments.  In exigent circumstances, in which a warrant is not required 
because personal or public safety is at imminent risk, Contractor shall impound the 
animal immediately.  However, in the event that Contractor determines that a warrant is 
necessary for the impoundment, Contractor shall promptly seek such warrant and take all 
steps necessary to ensure that the animal is secured in such a manner that it poses no 
threat to the safety of any person pending the impoundment. 
 
In those limited situations in which Contractor reasonably believes that there is no violation, 
seizure is unlawful and there are no grounds for seeking a warrant despite the request by City or 
County law enforcement, Contractor’s President and/or legal counsel shall promptly discuss the 
legal and factual basis for Contractor’s determination with the Chief of Police or designee of the 
respective City (or County Sheriff or designee if applicable) and the County Animal Control 
Manager or designee, if available within one hour. If the City or County representatives are not 
available and/or there is still disagreement, and City or County law enforcement still requests 
impoundment, City or County law enforcement will seize the animal, and Contractor with 
thereafter take custody of the animal and impound the animal at the shelter.  In these situations 
only, if the City or County law enforcement officer believes that a warrant should be applied for, 
but Contractor does not believe there are grounds for such warrant, the law enforcement officer 
shall supply the affidavit for such warrant and, at the request of the City or County law 
enforcement officer, Contractor shall seek the warrant from the court.  
5. Contractor shall not release any impounded animals unless the owner of such animal, 
or another individual with express verbal or written authority from the owner to pick up the 
animal (and such authority has been directly conveyed to Contractor from owner), 
appears at the Contractor’s facility, and pays the relevant impoundment, emergency 
medical treatment, and licensing/permit fees to redeem said animal. Fees may be billed 
under certain circumstances as outlined in Exhibit A. - VI. Operations – D. Administration 
– 1 Financial Systems.  
F. Transport of sick, injured animals 
Contractor will: 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
128 of 734

--- page 129 ---
24 
 
1. Ensure the transfer of any injured or sick animals to the animal shelter or veterinary 
emergency hospital, or ensure that the owner (if present) of the animal seeks medical 
treatment.  
G. Field euthanasia 
Contractor will: 
1. Ensure that if euthanasia is necessary for a sick or injured wild animal while it is in the 
field, the euthanasia shall be conducted by trained personnel with necessary equipment. 
This service shall be available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week, 365 
days a year. 
H. Investigations for animal bites, dangerous & vicious animal cases 
Contractor will: 
1. Conduct thorough investigations of dangerous or vicious animals, which shall include 
interviewing witnesses, collecting evidence, writing reports, taking photos, requesting 
related information and securing search warrants to impound a vicious or dangerous dog, 
making initial designations as dangerous or vicious, and testifying at hearings. This 
investigation should be completed, and the report and all supporting information 
presented to the County, at least three (3) calendar days ahead of the scheduled hearing. 
Contractor, pertaining to Contractor’s duties as outlined herein, will follow the applicable 
County and Participating City ordinances.  
2. Investigate municipal code violation complaints within the jurisdictional boundaries of 
the Participating Cities and the unincorporated County pertaining to Contractor’s duties 
as outlined herein.  This includes, but is not limited to, interviewing witnesses, collecting 
evidence, taking photos, writing reports, requesting related information and securing 
search warrants, issuing citations, and participating in hearings or court proceedings as 
needed for potential impoundment and/or prosecution. Officers will work closely with the 
City Attorney or County District Attorney as applicable.  
I. Removal of dead animals 
Contractor will: 
1. Remove dead animals from the public right-of-way, except freeways and/or highways, 
which are maintained by CALTRANS.  
2. Remove stray dead domestic animals from private property for no charge.  
3. Remove owned domestic dead animals at the request of owner with a charge to the 
member of the public requesting the service, as set forth in the Fee Schedule. All such 
fees collected by the Contractor shall be remitted to the County.  
4. Pick up and dispose of any dead animal on any street, sidewalk, school, or other public 
property.  
5. In cases where animal contact meets the criteria for rabies testing, pick up dead or live 
wildlife on private property. In cases where animal contact meets the criteria for rabies 
testing, the Contractor will follow the rabies testing protocol.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
129 of 734

--- page 130 ---
25 
 
6. Dispose of dead wildlife or domestic dead animals that are brought to the shelter. If a 
commercial wildlife removal or pest company wants to dispose of dead animals, they will 
have to enter into a contract with the County to pay for disposal fees.  
7. If Contractor is unable to safely remove a dead animal, Contractor will hire a qualified 
third-party using contract funds to remove the dead animal. 
J. Quarantine of animals 
Contractor will:  
1. Quarantine biting animals and enforce State Codes, California Rabies Compendium, 
and County guidelines relating to rabies control. This includes providing state-mandated 
rabies clinics.  
2. Work with San Mateo County Health to jointly determine when an in-home bite 
quarantine is appropriate and will be made available. 
K. Dispatch 
Contractor will: 
1. Provide radio dispatching to the field between the hours of 8:00am and 6:00pm on 
Monday through Friday and 8:00am and 5:00pm on Saturday, Sunday, and Holidays.  
2. County shall provide radio dispatching to Contractor between the hours of 6:00pm and 
8:00am Monday through Friday and 5:00pm and 8:00am Saturday, Sunday, and 
Holidays. The Contractor will pay the annual cost for County Radio Dispatch using funds 
paid to Contractor pursuant to this Agreement. 
3. Have a system for phone calls to roll to another person in order to answer calls from 
the residents for the County. If there is more than one (1) Dispatcher on shift, the phone 
lines will be set up so the calls coming in roll between the multiple phones.  
4. Have a line for law enforcement, fire, and other government officials to call on at all 
times when the contractors dispatch is open if they need service from the Contractor.  
5. County shall maintain County-owned radio equipment as denoted in Attachment M 
County-Owned Radio Equipment.   
 
V. VETERINARY MEDICAL SERVICES 
A. Provide veterinary care for animals   
Contractor will:  
1. Make medical decisions that balance both the best interest of the individual animals 
requiring treatment and the County Shelter population.  
2. Ensure that the County Shelter medical services include, but are not limited to: animal 
exams, vaccinations, microchipping, dispensation of medications, disease prevention, 
surgeries (e.g. enucleations, amputations and wound repairs), emergency care of injured 
animals, euthanasia and coordination with other local, state and national agencies. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
130 of 734

--- page 131 ---
26 
 
3. Ensure that Contractor’s veterinary medical staff regularly monitor the status of 
individual animals and the population as a whole. 
4. Have and apply written disease prevention and response policies and procedures. 
Disease response procedures should include measures to minimize transmission to 
unaffected animals or people and should ensure appropriate care of the affected animals. 
Procedures should include a treatment plan where decisions are based on a range of 
appropriate criteria, including the ability to safely and humanely provide relief, duration of 
treatment, prognosis for recovery, the likelihood of placement after treatment, the number 
of animals who must be treated and the expense and resources available. 
5. Ensure that there is preventive health care appropriate for each species and include 
protocols that strengthen resistance to disease and minimize exposure to pathogens.  
6. Ensure that medications and treatments are only administered with the advice of a 
veterinarian or in accordance with written protocols provided by a veterinarian, and all 
drugs are dispensed in accordance with federal and state regulations.  
7. Whenever possible, ensure all veterinary care and treatments are recorded in 
Chameleon (or any successor system).  
8. Microchip and spay/neuter all animals for adoption prior to pick up by new owner, as 
required by law, unless a veterinarian determines the procedure is not safe for the 
animal’s health to performed.  
9. Have written policies regarding care and treatment of injured and sick animals and that 
are in alignment with State or local laws and address. 
B. Veterinarian medical licensing/registration 
Contractor will: 
1. Maintain current premise permits and meet all veterinary licensing requirements as 
specified by the California Veterinary Medical Board and California and federal law.  
2. Maintain licensure to dispense and supply shelter and field services staff with the 
controlled substances necessary for performance of field captures and euthanasia, 
including the monitoring and security of such substances.  
3. Ensure that veterinary staff meet certification and/or license requirements set forth by 
the State of California. Staff includes veterinarians, registered veterinary technicians, and 
other licensed or certified personnel.  
C. Medical examination, treatment, and medication 
Contractor will: 
1. Ensure that the veterinary staff 1) perform a medical examination upon arrival for all 
sick/injured animals, 2) direct and monitor the care of injured and/or sick animals, 3) 
adheres to and directs procedures to reduce or respond to the outbreak of infectious 
diseases, and 4) provide a medical exam for all animals (except those needing 
emergency care) within 24 hours of arriving at the shelter. 
2. Provide for laboratory services including stool examinations, cytology, urine analysis, 
heartworm tests, FELV/FIV tests, electrolytes measurements, and blood counts, among 
other testing.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
131 of 734

--- page 132 ---
27 
 
3. Ensure adequate and appropriate administrative controls are in place to monitor 
medications and medical supplies.   
 
VI. OPERATIONS 
A. Personnel 
1. Staffing  
Contractor will: 
a) Hire personnel that are fully-qualified, authorized, licensed or permitted under applicable 
State and local law to perform such services. 
2. Contract Funding of Staff 
Contractor will: 
a) Ensure all shelter, field, facilities and veterinary-related staff and managerial positions 
funded 100% by the Contract, spend 100% of their time working at the County Shelter, or 
providing other services to the County and Cities pursuant to this agreement (excluding 
disaster work, training, or meetings.) If one of these staff member works less than 100% of 
their time at the County shelter, the percentage of hours worked under the items of this 
Contract will be documented on a timesheet/time clock. Hours worked at another location 
will not be charged to Contract funds. If one of these staff members’ time is divided between 
the County shelter and other sites, Contractor shall prioritize services denoted within this 
agreement. Contractor will include with the monthly invoice a report of the FTE hours worked 
at the County shelter by these staff members. An organization chart will be sent to the 
County annually that shows the Contractors entire organization including the percentages of 
time staff paid by the County shelter.  
3. Training  
Contractor will: 
a) Annually provide a training plan that includes any certifications required by State laws. 
b) Be responsible for providing fully trained personnel in all aspects of performance, 
including proper animal care, animal handling, and enforcement procedures and techniques.  
c) Ensure all ACOs complete Penal Code 832 Arrest course or be appointed pursuant to 
California Corporations Code Section 14502 as Humane Officers, issue citations, receive 
ongoing training and maintain proper education, experience and/or certification within one 
(1) year of hire.  
d) Ensure all ACOs pass approved baton training at earliest feasible opportunity. No ACO 
shall use a baton until trained. 
e) Require all ACOs to be certified to perform euthanasia by injection as defined by 
California law. All ACOs will complete required training per state law.  
f) Require all staff that perform animal euthanasia to be trained pursuant to State law.  
g) Require staff members that have access or review documents, such as bite reports and 
human medical records, to complete HIPAA training.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
132 of 734

--- page 133 ---
28 
 
4. Volunteer Program  
Contractor will: 
a) Have an active volunteer program to support the Animal Care and Control program and 
related activities. The County encourages the use of volunteer support in all aspects of the 
program unless prohibited by State law. The volunteer program will be guided by policies 
and procedures similar to those for Contractor’s employees.  
b) Contractor should work to increase the volunteer to staff ratio as may be deemed 
appropriate by Contractor for specific programs.  
c) Carry insurance on volunteers, including coverage for volunteers at the shelter including 
but not limited to their interaction with animals.  
d) Outline how they will recruit and coordinate volunteers and assigned activities.  
e) Track volunteer hours and report numbers annually to the County.  
f) Outline which tasks the volunteers will be assigned to complete at the shelter.  
B. V.6.4. Vehicles 
1. Acquiring /Replacement 
Contractor will: 
a) Utilize funds paid to Contractor pursuant to this Agreement to acquire or replace vehicles.  
2. Vehicle Maintenance and Repair 
Contractor will: 
a) Provide proof of automobile liability insurance covering all Contractor staff utilizing 
vehicles pursuant to this Agreement.  
b) Be responsible for all vehicle maintenance and repairs to be paid out of funds paid to 
Contractor pursuant to this Agreement.  
c) Utilize and maintain existing and replacement vehicles assigned for animal control 
activities.  
d) Provide a quarterly maintenance and repair report listing all vehicles and the service 
received.  
e) Ensure all vehicles receive routine maintenance as required by the manufacturer.  
f) Maintain all of the vehicles such that they remain in a safe, professional condition at all 
times. Records must be kept on all maintenance problems and mileage.  
g) Keep vehicles in good repair and ensure that there are no dangers to animals inside the 
vehicles that could cause injury such as sharp edges, gaps in doors etc.  
h) Clean and disinfect after an animal has been transported in the vehicle.  
i) Ensure all vehicles are kept clean on the inside and outside.  
C. Procurement 
1. Inventory 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
133 of 734

--- page 134 ---
29 
 
Contractor will: 
a) Maintain and provide to the County, within thirty (30) days of execution of this Agreement, 
a current inventory of all equipment paid for with non-contract Funds owned by Contractor or 
paid for in part with non-Contract Funds, used at the shelter and having a current fair market 
value of $1,000 or more. Provide to the County, within six (6) months of signing the 
Agreement, an inventory of all durable equipment purchased using contract funds and 
having a current fair market value of $1,000 or more.  
2. Computer Hardware and Software  
Contractor will: 
a) Be responsible for the provision and replacement of County-owned hardware and 
software using contract funding, grants or private funds as long as all of the computer 
hardware located in the County Shelter purchased using contract funds is considered the 
property of the County. Items owned by the County will be listed in the annual inventory.  
b) Maintain an inventory of purchased hardware and software.  
c) Be responsible to provide server, internet connectivity and equipment to operate all 
computers within the shelter. This will include the set-up of the service for the equipment.  
3. Operating Supplies  
a) The Contractor shall be required to purchase all operating supplies for the purpose of any 
service provided under the terms of the contract with contract funds, County-directed 
donations or other funding sources directed solely to the County Shelter; the supplies will be 
and remain the property of San Mateo County. 
b) County shall provide animal licensing tags for dogs, cats, animals held under a 
Dangerous Animal Permit, and animals designated as Service Animals. 
D. Administration 
1. Financial systems  
Contractor will: 
a) Have in place a process and have the capability to provide billing and provide activity 
reports to the County. 
b) Contractor will not release any impounded animals unless the owner of such animal, or 
another individual with express written or verbal authority (such verbal authority having been 
conveyed to Contractor directly from owner) to represent the owner, appears at the 
Contractors facility, and pays all applicable impoundment, emergency medical treatment, 
and/or licensing/permit fees to redeem said animal. Exceptions may be made where efforts 
to collect said fees would, in Contractor’s reasonable estimation, potentially jeopardize the 
safety of its staff, volunteers or facility. Contractor will alert the program manager of Animal 
Control and Licensing regarding the threat of harm to the staff.  
c) Contractor will require license fees to be paid before the animal leaves the shelter. 
d) Contractor will bill the responsible party if it is reasonably determined that they cannot pay 
the required fees at the time an animal is released. Contractor will use every effort to confirm 
that the responsible party is unable to pay fees. In the case of unaltered dogs, cats and 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
134 of 734

--- page 135 ---
30 
 
rabbits, fees will only be billed provided the responsible party agrees to have the animal 
spayed or neutered prior to the animal being released from the shelter.  
e) Fees will only be transferred to the County for billing as a last resort. Any time a 
responsible party is billed, the responsible party shall be provided a detailed and clear 
itemized list of fees, as well as a letter on San Mateo County Health Department letterhead 
explaining how to pay owed fees and the potential for collections actions to follow. 
2. Financial Audit & Operational Audit  
Contractor will: 
a) Provide periodic updates on the annual external audit process, including information on 
the process which will be used to ensure the completion of audits. The completed written 
audit and opinions shall be supplied to the County by December 31st of each calendar year 
for the previous fiscal year. 
b) Annually hire an independent auditor, who will conduct a fiscal year audit of all expenses 
and revenues and services noted above. The auditor must document and express an 
opinion on program revenues, expenses and units of service and must conduct audit in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. The audit report shall also express 
an opinion regarding compliance with the financially related terms of the Agreement.  
c) After completion of the audit, allow County or City personnel, or consultant to speak 
directly with the auditors in a joint session with Contractor. 
d) Contractor shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to achieve economy, efficiency 
and effectiveness in performance of the services provided. Contractor and County will meet 
on occasion, as requested by County, but not to exceed more than once per year, to 
consider revisions which may be needed to the reporting forms created to document 
performance of the services provided. At any time during the term of this Services 
Agreement, but not to exceed one time annually, County may request, and Contractor shall 
provide additional detailed information concerning services performed under this Agreement 
for the purpose of a performance audit. The County shall make every effort to follow 
Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS). 
e) At any time during normal business hours and as often as the County may deem 
necessary, allow the County and/or representatives of the County to observe all Contractor’s 
staff and volunteers in all areas of the County Shelter operation. County/City and/or 
representatives/contractor shall reasonably conduct themselves so as to not impede regular 
operations or functions. At no time will the County/City and/or representatives/contractor of 
the County direct the work of any Contractor staff in any manner.  
f) At any time during normal business hours, with 24-hour notice from the County, and as 
often as County may deem necessary, provide to the County and/or representatives of the 
County records for examination with respect to all matters covered by this Agreement. Any 
records (e.g., personal employment) that would require notice to interested parties, shall be 
so noticed to the extent required by law prior to disclosure. Notice to Contractor shall not be 
required if the County has evidence of fraud or other misuse of contract dollars on the part of 
the Contractor; provided, however, that Contractor does not waive any privacy rights that 
individual employees may have. Nothing in this Services Agreement shall be construed as 
granting County any right to make copies, excerpts or transcripts of information unrelated to 
the Services Agreement without the prior written consent of Contractor. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
135 of 734

--- page 136 ---
31 
 
3. Documentation 
Contractor will: 
a) Maintain for at least four (4) years after contract termination, and provide to County, or 
any Federal or State department having monitoring or review authority, to County’s 
authorized representatives, and/or to any of their respective audit agencies access to and 
the right to examine all records and documents necessary to determine compliance with 
relevant Federal, State, and local statutes, rules, and regulations, to determine compliance 
with this Services Agreement, and to evaluate the quality, appropriateness, and timeliness of 
services performed.  
b) Maintain for at least four (4) years after contract termination, and provide to County as 
requested records of animals impounded including the description of animal; date of receipt; 
date and manner of disposition; treatment received; name and address of person who 
redeemed animal; and fees, charges and proceeds charged and collected for redemption. 
Contractor will provide information regarding adopters and fees for those animals adopted at 
the County Shelter. Contractor shall record all vaccinations. 
c) Maintain a complete record on each animal within the Chameleon (or any successor 
system) database.  
4. Quality Improvement 
a) Contractor shall have a Quality Improvement program to ensure maintenance of key 
documents, reporting, scheduling services and activities, staff performance, and customer 
service.  
E. Public services 
1. Contractor agrees to convene a Participating City Managers’ or Police Chiefs Group at 
a minimum of once per year over the term of this Services Agreement. 
2. Contractor shall convene an annual meeting with Contractor’s Board of Directors, 
President of the organization, and a committee of Participating City and County elected 
officials upon request, at a minimum of once per year during the term of this Services 
Agreement to review work covered herein. 
3. Contractor agrees that the President, Senior Vice President of Operations, Senior 
Director of Operations will meet monthly with the Program Manager of Animal Control 
and Licensing. 
4. When the County responds to a public records request, it will also provide an exact 
copy to Contractor of the documents disclosed to the member of the public.  
5. Contractor agrees to present an annual report and supporting documentation to the 
Board of Supervisors that addresses the performance of the contracted services set forth 
in this Agreement. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
136 of 734

--- page 137 ---
32 
 
6. Public services include, but are not limited to: staffing the call center, providing and 
running a website, reunification of lost animals with owners, animal adoptions, animal 
transfers to partner organizations, adoption promotions, licensing services, vaccination 
and microchip clinics, media inquiries, citizen complaint resolution, public education and 
outreach, utilization of volunteers, and coordination with other local, state and national 
agencies. Services also include the proper collection and handling of financial 
transactions associated with fees, fines, donations, and contract payments. 
7. Contractor will provide quarterly communication updates to the County and Cities for 
public release on their websites and within social media. This should include any 
information for residents on services provided by the Contractor. 
Contractor will: 
8. Issue animal licenses and or required permits and collect applicable fees for dogs and 
cats that are encountered at the County shelter.  
9. Provide public hours at the County Shelter as follows: Shelter will be open 7 days a 
week with a minimum of 8 hours per day Monday-Friday (e.g. open 11:00AM-7:00PM) 
and 6 hours (e.g. open 11:00AM-5:00PM) per day on Saturday and Sunday. The shelter 
can be closed on major holidays (see attachment L – Peninsula Humane Society 
Holidays), provided, however that on such holidays, Contractor shall maintain the 
minimum staff necessary to care for the animals and respond to field activities. Shelter 
will be cleaned by 11 am and ready for public to enter during business hours. 
10. Provide method(s) for customers to find and claim lost pets through the Contractor’s 
website, call center, notification by mail and telephone. 
11. Promote adoptions and licensing through a variety of outreach strategies, including 
public education and outreach opportunities that contribute to increasing the live release 
rate and decreasing pet overpopulation. 
12. Ensure customers are provided with exceptional customer service by achieving a 
positive customer satisfaction rating according to a survey to be developed in conjunction 
with County approval and administered annually. The survey must include a customer 
feedback component to ensure continuous improvement.  
13. Develop and maintain acceptance, tracking and resolution procedures for customer 
service complaints received regarding Animal Services. Provide initial response (e.g. 
phone call, email, in-person visit) to resident complaints within 48 hours of receipt, with 
intent to resolve within a reasonable period. County will be advised for sensitive or 
unusual complaints.  
F. Provide monthly low-cost vaccination clinics at the shelter 
Contractor will: 
1. Hold at least one (1) monthly low-cost vaccine clinic at the County Shelter for the 
residents of San Mateo County. The Contractor shall sell licenses at the monthly low-cost 
vaccine clinics and all fees collected at the clinic will be remitted to the County.  
G. Issuing licenses  
Contractor will: 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
137 of 734

--- page 138 ---
33 
 
1. Provide online information on how pet owners can license their pets to include 
locations for purchase and web addresses.  
2. Issue replacement tags to dog owners whose license tags are lost, stolen or damaged, 
for applicable fee.  
3. License and/or issue required permits and collect for County all applicable fees for all 
dogs and cats that are encountered at the County Shelter as required by applicable 
ordinance.  
4. Issue a one (1) or three (3) -year option for dog licenses to the general public as 
required by applicable ordinance/law and collect applicable fees for County.  
5. Provide an online option on the Contractor’s website (https://www.petdata.com/ URL 
link to the County’s current subcontractor, PetData, Inc.) to license or renew animal 
licenses.  
6. Properly handle the collection, deposit, remittance, and refund of all money associated 
with service fees, fines, and contract payments.  
7. Collect all fees documented in the ordinances.  
8. Contractor shall remit to the County monthly any and all fees collected, pursuant to 
ordinance, as well as, vaccine and microchip clinic fees, and animal licensing fees.   
H. Software 
Contractor will:  
1. Utilize the Chameleon (or any successor system) software and database animal 
sheltering information system for the purpose of tracking all animal intakes and 
dispositions, behavioral notes, all medical conditions and treatment (with the exclusion of 
some medical notes that are unable to be added to the database and can be 
handwritten), notes made by volunteers may be hand written, animal control field 
activities, animal control citations and written warnings, animal bites and bite quarantines 
and other data relevant to the management of the animal services operation. Contractor 
shall provide copies to the Participating Cities/County or contractor all written notes as 
well as data within the Chameleon (or any successor system) software upon request.  
2. Be responsible for paying all of the Chameleon (or any successor system) software 
system fees for work related to the contract, including the County licenses, using contract 
funds. The Chameleon (or any successor system) license will list San Mateo County and 
Peninsula Humane Society & SPCA as the database owners. In the event of contract 
termination or expiration, each party shall receive an exact copy of the database 
information, and if any technical problems arise regarding that goal, each party agrees to 
use best efforts to achieve this result. 
3. Ensure the “adoption” outcome in Chameleon (or any successor system) shall be 
utilized for private individuals who have adopted a pet with the intention that the animal is 
to be their permanent pet or the permanent pet of their friend, partner or relative. The 
“transfer” outcome in Chameleon (or any successor system) shall be utilized for Partner 
Group organizations and their designees that plan to temporarily hold the animal until it 
can be adopted to a private individual or that plan to provide a hospice type service for 
the animals.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
138 of 734

--- page 139 ---
34 
 
4. Ensure every live animal goes through an intake process where a photo and 
description of each animal is added to the Chameleon (or any successor system) 
database. Core vaccinations, deworming and any necessary flea treatment for animals to 
be sheltered shall also be administered and documented in Chameleon (or any 
successor system) during the intake process. The photos of all stray animals impounded 
at the County Shelter shall be made available for viewing by the public on the 
Contractor’s lost and found website page during the stray hold period. The photos of all 
adoptable animals past any necessary stray hold period kept at the County Shelter shall 
also be made available for viewing by the public on the Contractor’s website.  
5. Ensure all owner contact information and attempts to contact the owners of animals 
wearing a license or identification tag, a microchip or any other kind of identification must 
be recorded in Chameleon (or any successor system). Behavior notes and all other 
information regarding the animal shall also be recorded in Chameleon (or any successor 
system).  
6. Contractor will record in the Chameleon database Activity Record field responses with 
staff going on scene to the location of the activity differently than they will non-field 
responses, such as leaving phone messages, phone conversations, radio conversations, 
mailing letters, or any other activities performed when staff is not physically on the scene 
of the location of the activity. Recording field and non-field responses differently will allow 
accurate response reports to be generated. Response time reports for the City/County 
will only include field service calls when field staff is dispatch to a scene to handle a 
priority 1-5 call. It will include the time call was received, time dispatched, time the staff 
arrived on the scene and time the staff cleared the scene and what action the staff took.   
7. Ensure all dogs, cats, puppies and kittens in a litter, weaned or not weaned, shall 
always be provided with an individual animal ID number in Chameleon (or any successor 
system) that is counted in both intake and outcome statistics.  
I. Disaster response 
Contractor will: 
1. Coordinate with County in the event of a disaster/declared state of emergency. 
2. Provide assistance to residents, local law enforcement, fire agencies and the County of 
San Mateo Office of Emergency Services to evacuate, shelter, and care for animals in 
the event of a disaster.  
3. Be activated by the County’s office of Emergency Services in accordance with the 
County’s Incident Command System.  
4. Work with other groups within the County during a disaster to ensure animals are 
safely evacuated and proper care is provided.  
5. Ensure that staff or a third-party organization is available to respond to a disaster and 
are trained in the handling and care of all animal species within the County. 
6. Ensure that each staff member responding to the disaster completes necessary FEMA 
forms.  
7. Participate in a minimum of one (1) full-scale disaster exercise with San Mateo County 
Health or the Office of Emergency Services annually.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
139 of 734

--- page 140 ---
35 
 
8. When staffing is available, supply 1-2 staff members during disasters that can rotate 
into the emergency operations center as needed by the County.  
9. Ensure that all staff and volunteers responding to the disaster have completed ICS 100 
& 700, as well as trained to the animal care and handling standards of the Contractor.  
10. Train with other non-profits and groups in the County on evacuations, sheltering set 
ups and communications during a disaster, etc.  
J. Mutual Aid 
Contractor will: 
1. Respond during a disaster in other Counties when requested by the San Mateo County 
Emergency Operations Center. Shelter and Field services must continue to operate in 
San Mateo County when providing support to other jurisdictions. Contractor shall use 
reasonable efforts to make staff available to assist with mutual aid, as requested and, 
when the Contractor reasonably determines that it is unable to do so, shall promptly 
provide a detailed written explanation of why it is unable to do so. 
2. Contractor will work directly with San Mateo County Health and EOC during a disaster 
for mutual aid needs or supplies.  
K. Recovery 
Contractor will: 
1. Work with animal owners on the pickup of their animals that have been cared for 
during the disaster. Thirty (30) days of Shelter fees can be waived by Contractor due to 
the disaster and include documentation in the database. If that animal needs to be held 
longer and more fees should be waived, Contractor will get approval from the County.  
2. For those animals that owners wish to relinquish, the Contractor will look at alternative 
placement options for the animals such as adoptions, foster homes, or partner groups.  
3. Plan Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP)  
4. Within six (6) months of signing the agreement, Contractor will create a COOP for the 
provision of all contracted services in the event of a natural disaster or other significant 
unanticipated event that might otherwise disrupt services. Plan to be provided to the 
County annually. 
 
VII. REPORTING  
Provider will provide the following reports as specified within the required time period.  
Monthly Reports 
DUE 
1. Live animal intake kennel statistics (counts and 
percentages) by: 
Animal, including dogs, cats, other domestic 
animals, and wildlife, Intake type, including 
owner-surrender, confiscated, stray, owner-
requested, Outcome, adoption, reclaim, transfer, 
euthanasia, died, missing, owner-requested 
Upon Invoicing 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
140 of 734

--- page 141 ---
36 
 
euthanasia, etc. by Jurisdiction and summarized 
2. Dead animal statistics (counts and 
percentages) by: Animal, including dogs, cats, 
other domestic animals, and wildlife 
Upon Invoicing 
3. Field pick-up and drop-off: Jurisdiction and 
summarized, Patrol calls and response times by 
priority to include jurisdiction of the call and 
outcome 
Upon Invoicing 
4. Field activities response times are to be 
calculated from the time of the call for field 
service to when the Animal Control Officer arrive 
on the scene of the field activity. Report should 
include the minimum time, maximum time, 
average time, targeted time percentage per 
priority, both summarized and by jurisdictional 
location, and results.  
Upon Invoicing 
5. List of citizen complaints by jurisdiction and 
category, timeline for resolution, and associated 
outcome. 
Upon Invoicing 
6. Number of citations issued, categorized by 
ordinance and jurisdiction. 
Upon Invoicing 
7. Number of voidable license citations issues 
and number voided with the purchase of a 
license. 
Upon Invoicing 
8. Revenues collected by jurisdiction and type 
and summarized. 
Upon Invoicing 
9. Financial reports reflecting budget to actual 
comparison information for revenues and 
expenditures by line item. As an addendum to the 
financial report, a narrative outlining any 
foreseeable issues or operational changes that 
the Contractor believes may be necessary for 
approval by the County.  
Upon Invoicing 
10. Staff report on FTE percentage of hours 
spent at the County shelter.  
Upon Invoicing 
 
 
Quarterly Reports 
Due 
1. License sales performed by Contractor by 
species and type and jurisdiction with summary. 
Upon invoicing for January, April, July, October 
2. Rabies vaccination and microchipping clinics 
statistics, with summary of total vaccinations 
administered by species and type. 
Upon invoicing for January, April, July, October 
3. Dangerous & vicious animal cases by 
jurisdiction and outcomes.      
Upon invoicing for January, April, July, October 
4. Animal Control/Humane Officer training  
Upon invoicing for January, April, July, October 
5. Humane Investigation report to include number 
of calls, contacts, notices, citations, and number 
of cruelty/neglect cases submitted to the District 
Attorney/City Attorney for prosecution with 
outcome. 
Upon invoicing for January, April, July, October 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
141 of 734

--- page 142 ---
37 
 
6. Maintenance and repair report listing all 
vehicles and the service received. 
Upon invoicing for January, April, July, October 
 
 
Annual Reports 
Due 
1. All monthly and quarterly statistics listed above 
compiled for an annual summary of animal 
statistics 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
2. Medical services staff training--list of staff, type 
of training, and dates of completion. 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
3. Field officer training - list of staff, type of 
training, and dates of completion.  
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
4. Animal care staff training - list of staff, type of 
training, and dates of completion. 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
5. Annual dog and cat statistics in basic matrix 
format, including live release rates and the live 
release rate formula used.  
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
6. Annual financial audit statement.  
December 31st of the current year 
7. Customer satisfaction rating survey results. 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
8. A Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) for 
the provision of all contracted services in the 
event of a natural disaster or other significant 
unanticipated event that might otherwise disrupt 
services.  
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
9. A written cost allocation methodology 
procedure. Methodology should consist of items 
such as how direct services, such as field and 
shelter personnel and supplies, cost are 
distributed vs administration personnel that may 
be used for other than County contract related 
services, if applicable. 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
10. A list of all current employed personnel by 
position paid for in full or part by the Contract with 
the salary/benefits and percent of FTE for each.  
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
11. Personnel Organization chart with the 
percentage breakdown of FTE positions and 
number of FTE’s. For those personnel whose 
responsibilities extend beyond the contract, the 
organizational chart will indicate the percent of 
full-time equivalence assigned to each staff 
member for the contract that will be correlated 
with the amount funded by the contract. 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
12. Detailed budget narrative outlining estimated 
revenues and expenditures for operating and 
capital needs, explanation of operational and 
financial changes requested from the prior year, 
major operation strategy shifts, and any other 
items necessary to provide the County with an 
understanding of the proposed spending plan for 
 
Current fiscal year upon invoicing for August  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
142 of 734

--- page 143 ---
38 
 
the following year.  
13. Current policy and procedures (SOPs). 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
14. Contractor will notify the County by January 
31st of each year the number of bite quarantines 
handled for the past calendar year, broken down 
by city, compared to the average number of 
quarantines for the prior three (3) calendar years 
and include data on in-home vs. shelter. 
Contractor will provide statistical information to 
the Animal Control & Licensing Manager 
sufficient to allow for completion of the Local 
Control Rabies Activity Report required by the 
State of California. The past years rabies 
information to be provided to the County no later 
than February 15th of each year.  
January 31st and February 15th for prior calendar year 
15. Provide the County with an inventory list of 
County owned equipment. 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
16. Number of spay/neuter surgeries provided to 
San Mateo County residents, transfer partners 
and shelter animals, number of spay/ neuter 
surgeries provided to residents outside of San 
Mateo County, divided by category, and total 
spay/neuter surgeries. 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
17. Humane Investigation report to include 
number of calls, contacts, notices, citations, and 
number of cruelty/neglect cases submitted to the 
District Attorney/City Attorney for prosecution with 
outcome. 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
18. Number of volunteers, hours and tasks 
performed. 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
19. Provide the County with an itemized list of all 
County fees collected.  
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
20. Number and type of disaster trainings 
conducted, both within their organization and with 
other groups in the County.  
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
21. Contractor to provide annually a detailed 
outline of what they will provide or do for kennel 
enrichment for all animals housed at the shelter. 
Prior calendar year upon invoicing for February 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
143 of 734

--- page 144 ---
39 
 
VIII. PERFORMANCE MEASURES 
Incentive Performance Measures  
1. 85% of stray and owner-surrendered animals that go through their stray hold will be moved to a 
positive outcome within three (3) weeks of entering the shelter. Detailed description of reasons for 
not meeting this objective is required for animals not moved within three (3) weeks (with the 
emphasis looking to improve the positive outcome over the duration of the contract). Dangerous 
animals, quarantined animals and animals in protective custody are excluded.  
2. 95% of rabies specimens will be delivered to the San Mateo County Public Health Laboratory 
within 48 hours of arriving at the shelter. Detailed description is required in the notes in the 
Chameleon (or any successor system) software for animals not delivered within 48 hours 
3. 95% of all animals entering the shelter will be administered vaccinations, dewormer, and flea 
control as appropriate for their species.  
4. All animals receive a health assessment within 24 hours of the animal entering the shelter. 
5. All dogs and cats receive an equitable full behavioral assessment no longer than 96 hours of the 
animal entering the shelter (not including the day of intake). Detailed description is required for 
animals not receiving a complete behavioral assessment. Excluded: Dangerous animals, 
quarantined animals, animals in protective custody, euthanasia requests, exotic animals, and 
fowl.  
6. 95% of all priority 1 calls are responded to within 1 hour of the reporting party calling Dispatch. 
7. 95% of all priority 2 calls are responded to within 4 hours of the reporting party calling Dispatch. 
8. 90 % of all priority 3 calls are responded to within 18 hours of the reporting party calling Dispatch. 
9. 85% of all priority 4 calls are responded to within 24 hours of the reporting party calling Dispatch. 
10. Monthly reporting of the number of citations issued to animal owners. A detailed explanation is 
required for ±15% variation in the measure. 
11. Monthly reporting of the number of citations voided due to license purchase. 
12. Provide monthly reporting on the number of animals euthanized in the field by species type and 
jurisdiction. 
13. 100% of investigative reports including available witness statements, photos, videos, veterinarian 
bills, medical bills, bite reports, and police reports to the County within 3 calendar days prior to a 
hearing, excluding weekends and holidays.  
14. 90% of dead animals are removed within 18 hours.  
15. 90% of all quarantines will be responded to within 18 hours of the reporting party either calling 
Dispatch or a faxed bite report being received.  
16. Dispatchers answer 90% of calls to Dispatch in less than 2 minutes and have no more than a 
10% abandoned call rate. 
17. Contractor will report quarterly and annually how many cruelty cases have been investigated and 
the number of cases sent to the District Attorney or City Attorney for prosecution.  
18. All live animals entering the shelter with a non-urgent medical issue are examined by 
veterinarian/technician within 24 hours. Examinations may be visual for animals that are unsafe to 
handle. A detailed explanation is required for ±10% variation in the measure. 
19. All officers will be trained as per state law within 1 year of hire date.  
20. All staff that have access to human medical documents must be HIPAA trained by the Contractor 
within 30 days of hiring. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
144 of 734

--- page 145 ---
40 
 
21. Provide initial response (e.g. phone call, email, in-person visit) to resident complaints within 48 
hours of receipt, with intent to resolve within a reasonable period. No more than a 10% variance 
22. 5% increase in the number of pets receiving a rabies vaccination at monthly vaccine clinic based 
upon the prior fiscal year’s measure.  
23. Number of pets receiving a license during the vaccine clinics shall increase 10% each year by 
using a baseline the prior fiscal year and for each consecutive year throughout the term of the 
contract.  
24. Contractor shall only report out for response times those field activities logged into Chameleon (or 
any successor system) those that are dispatched to field staff and when they arrive on scene to 
the location of the activity. If other field services activities, such as phone calls, emails or text 
messages are logged into Chameleon (or any successor system) they will not be counted in the 
response time report. 
25. Written audit and opinions shall be supplied to the County by December 31st of each calendar 
year for the previous fiscal year. 
Non-Incentive Performance Measures 
26. All received animals will receive a microchip scan. Detailed description is required for animals not 
receiving a microchip scan 
27. Contractor to provide annually a detailed outline of what they will provide or do for kennel 
enrichment for all animals housed at the shelter. 
28. Contractor will have written policies and procedures on euthanasia with a goal of ensuring that 
non-aggressive and healthy or treatable animals that enter the shelter system are not euthanized 
and that such animals are given a positive outcome through redemptions, adoptions and transfers 
to other organizations. 
29. Contractor will have comprehensive written policies and procedures on Field Services. Policies 
and procedures should include proper care and handling of animals, emergency response 
procedures, how animals are placed into the vehicle, how officers will keep animals protected 
from the heat and cold in their vehicle, and standards for cleaning and disinfecting vehicles. 
30. Contractor will have comprehensive written policies and procedures on Veterinary Medical 
Services. Policies and procedures should include proper care of injured and sick animals 
31. All staff that will be euthanizing animals shall be trained per state law prior to performing 
euthanasia.  
32. All staff and volunteers that will be responding to or caring for animals during a disaster shall take 
the ICS 100 & 700 online classes.  
33. Contractor will be 100% in compliance with documentation outlined in this contract of animals 
entering the shelter. The County program manager of Animal Care and Control may conduct 
annual reviews of animal records. 
34. Contractor shall maintain books, records, reports and accounts adequate to allow County and/or 
the auditor to fully evaluate, assess and audit Contractor’s performance of services and use of 
contract funds under the Agreement, and allow inspection of same by County at any time with 24 
hour notice, as outlined in this Agreement  
35. Contractor shall use reasonable efforts to make staff available to assist with Mutual aid, as 
requested and, when the contractor reasonably determines that it is unable to do so, it shall 
promptly provide a detailed written explanation of why it is unable to do so: 
36. Contractor will have comprehensive written policies and procedures on the Volunteer Program. 
Contents of the policies and procedures should include, but not be limited to, the application form 
and process, job descriptions, selection and supervision, orientation and training, performance 
reviews, outline allowable and non-allowable activities, and a process for dismissal. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
145 of 734

--- page 146 ---
41 
 
Exhibit B 
In consideration of the services provided by Contractor described in Exhibit A and subject to the terms of 
the Agreement, County shall pay Contractor based on the following fee schedule and terms: 
The total amount that the County shall be obligated to pay for services rendered in this agreement 
shall not exceed THIRTY TWO MILLION FIVE HUNDRED FORTY EIGHT THOUSAND NINE 
HUNDRED EIGHTY NINE DOLLARS AND NINETY ONE CENTS ($32,548,989.91). The county shall 
pay the contractor in accordance with the following terms: 
A. Budget  
1. Fiscal Year and Amount  
a) 2021-22: $6,189,290.95 
b) 2022-23: $6,327,480.28 
c) 2023-24: $6,499,455.67 
d) 2024-25: $6,674,024.00 
e) 2025-26: $6,858,739.01 
2. All funds paid to Contractor pursuant to this Services Agreement shall be used by the 
Contractor to meet its obligations herein. 
3. A detailed proposed budget is included as Exhibit F. 
4. An additional amount of $100,000 annually will be included in the total budget to 
provide an incentive. Ability to access incentive funds will be determined based on: 
a) Should the Contractor achieve all 25 of the incentive performance measure targets the 
Contractor will receive 100% of incentive ($100,000). 
b) Should the Contractor achieve 90% (23) of incentive performance measures the 
Contractor will receive $75,000. 
c) Should the Contractor achieve 80% (20) of incentive performance measures the 
Contractor will receive $25,000. 
B. Incentive Money 
1. Incentive money is to be used to benefit the animals in San Mateo County (i.e., 
additional micro-chipping & vaccine clinics, mobile spay and neuter, disaster equipment, 
etc.) and Contractor will provide a summary report on how the incentive money was 
spent.  
C. Cost Overruns 
1. During any fiscal year of this Services Agreement, if the costs necessary and incidental 
to Contractor’s provision of services hereunder are greater than could have been 
reasonably anticipated, Parties hereto shall meet to discuss what steps should be taken. 
In no event shall the County provide additional reimbursement for costs overruns without 
approval of the Board of Supervisors and contracting Cities’ representatives. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
146 of 734

--- page 147 ---
42 
 
2. If county or state laws are passed during the term of this Services Agreement that 
require a greater level of service, County agrees to negotiate in good faith with Cities and 
Contractor to reimburse Contractor for additional costs associated with implementing the 
new laws. Should such amendments result in significantly increased costs to Contractor, 
Parties agree to negotiate in good faith to agree on appropriate reimbursement. If Parties 
are unable to agree on reimbursement costs, Contractor shall document the increased 
costs and submit to the County Controller. The Controller will conduct an independent 
audit. Parties agree to accept the Controller’s determination of any increased costs. 
3. If current state laws are amended, repealed, otherwise changed or suspended during 
the term of this Services Agreement that reduce, increase, alter, or remove existing 
relevant mandates, County may require Parties to meet to discuss possible financial and 
operational impacts of levels of service per the change in law, including but not limited to 
any decrease in contract amounts paid to Contractor. If, within 90 days, Parties reach 
mutual agreement as to how to proceed as a result of the change in law, it shall be 
memorialized as an amendment to this Services Agreement. If, after no less than ninety 
(90) days, Parties do not reach mutual agreement as to how to proceed as a result of the 
change in law, the County Controller will conduct an independent audit. Parties then have 
the option to accept the Controller’s determination.  Should Parties decide not to accept 
the Controller’s determination, Parties have an additional thirty (30) days to determine 
whether they wish to exercise early termination of this Services Agreement, as set forth 
below. Parties’ failure to exercise this early termination option at the end of this thirty (30) 
days results in this Services Agreement continuing without change or amendment for the 
duration of the term determined by Section 9 Term and Termination of this Services 
Agreement. Should either Party chose to exercise this early termination option, the Party 
shall do so by providing three-hundred-sixty-five (365) days prior written notice to other 
Party of its decision to terminate. 
D. Modifications to the Budget or Payments 
1. Any changes to the budget in Exhibit F must be requested in writing to the County no 
later than February 1 of the prior fiscal year for approval and a possible contract 
amendment by March of that year. 
2. In the event that funds provided under this Agreement are expended prior to the end of 
the contract term period, Contractor shall provide ongoing services under the terms of 
this Agreement through the end of the contract period without further payment from 
County. 
3. In the event that funds provided under this Agreement are not expended prior to the 
end of a fiscal year, Contractor shall have the opportunity to request funds no later than 
February 1 of the prior fiscal year to be used in the subsequent 12-month period with 
clear explanation for how those additional funds would be expended, and the County 
shall determine what amount of rollover funds will be available by March of the year. 
E. Budget Monitoring and Exceptions 
1. Revenue accounts shall be established for each service and shall be maintained 
separately by Contractor. 
F. Method of Payment and Invoicing  
1. Within 20 business days of the end of each month, Contractor must submit an invoice 
of actual costs for provision of services provided in Exhibit A for the prior month.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
147 of 734

--- page 148 ---
43 
 
a) For the month of June each year, the following deadlines for invoices exist. 
Specific dates for each fiscal year close will be confirmed in May of that year. 
(1) June 18, 2022 
(2) June 17, 2023 
(3) June 15, 2024 
(4) June 21st, 2025 
For the FY of July 2021-June 2022, Contractor may submit one initial invoice to 
the County by July 5th, 2021   in the amount of $500,000 as an advance payment 
for the fiscal year. The Contractor will reconcile this one-time advance payment 
on or before the September invoice. a) A similar arrangement for a one-time 
annual advance payment in July for each fiscal year will be in place.    
2. Other than the advance payments in July of each year, which are reconciled by 
September of each year, Contractor will only invoice for actual costs. 
3. Within 20 business days of the termination or expiration of the contract, Contractor 
must submit a final invoice and refund to County any advanced funds in excess of actual 
costs. In no event, however, shall County’s annual fiscal obligation under this Agreement 
exceed the amounts noted in Exhibit B Section A. Budget 1. Fiscal Year and Amount. 
4. In the event that the County makes any advance payments, Contractor agrees to 
refund any amounts in excess of the amount owed by the County or credit a portion of 
such advance payments to the County. Contractor is not entitled to payment for work not 
performed as required by this Agreement 
a) Invoices are to be sent to: 
Lori Morton-Feazell 
San Mateo County Animal Control and Licensing 
225 37th Ave, PONY PBH319ACL 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
650-573-3726 
lmorton-feazell@smcgov.org 
 
 
b) All invoices should reflect the “Staff report on FTE percentage of hours spent at 
the County shelter” and shall include:  
(1) Total amount of expenses incurred  
(2) A breakdown of those expenses according to budget categories included in 
Exhibit F 
(3) A payroll report of positions identified in the annual organizational chart 
(4) Associated reports on performance metrics 
(5) A description of any accomplishments or challenges in providing services or 
changes to service provision. 
5. Additional supporting documentation is not required to be submitted with 
invoices, however, the County can request supporting documentation on 
demand. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
148 of 734

--- page 149 ---
44 
 
G. Signature Claims Certification and Program Integrity 
1. Anytime Contractor submits an invoice to the County for reimbursement for services 
provided under Exhibit A of this Agreement, Contractor shall certify by signature that the 
invoice is true and accurate by stating the invoice is submitted under the penalty of 
perjury under the laws of the State of California. 
2. The invoice must include the following language and signature line at the bottom of the 
form(s) and/or cover letter used to submit the invoice. 
3. “Under the penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California, I hereby certify 
that this claim for services complies with all terms and conditions referenced in the 
Agreement with San Mateo County. 
 
Executed at  
_______________ 
 California, on __________20___ 
Signed ____________________ 
  Title ____________________  
 
Agency ____________________” 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
149 of 734

--- page 150 ---
45 
 
Exhibit C 
Excluded Services 
 
1) Enforcement of regulations regarding the number of animals per household. 
2) Removal and/or disposal of dead marine animals. 
3) Pick up of baby birds. 
4) Pick up of dead animals (deer, wildlife or domestic) from freeways or highways (1, 35 (Skyline 
Blvd.), 82 (El Camino Real), 84 (Woodside Road), 92, 101, 109, 114, 230, 280, 380). Freeways 
and highways are maintained by CALTRANS. 
5) Respond to barking dog complaints or animal noise nuisance complaints. 
6) Respond, whether dead or alive, to marine mammals/fish  
7) Routine patrol of leash-law enforcement in parks, beaches, and other public places when other 
priority calls are pending. When there are no priority calls pending, Contractor will respond to 
complaints, calls, and observed violations regarding off-leash dogs in parks, beaches, and other 
public places where off leash dogs are not allowed, in areas accessible by Contractor’s vehicle, 
and will maintain a patrol of no farther 500 yards from the vehicle. 
8) Under no condition shall a dangerous or vicious animal designation when determined in 
accordance with relevant County or City ordinance, placed on an animal by a law enforcement 
officer of any contract area as shown in Exhibit B to be overridden by Contractor. In cases where 
the contract area law enforcement officer is designating the animal as dangerous or vicious, 
Contractor’s responsibility is limited to testifying as may be needed regarding prior history with 
animal and/or owner. 
9) Contractor will not accept animals at the County Shelter facility which belong to non-San Mateo 
County residents, unless an emergency arises requiring surrender of an animal. The County 
Shelter may accept stray animals that were found outside of San Mateo County. The Contractor 
shall attempt to immediately transfer the stray animal to the proper shelter in the County where it 
was found in a commercially expeditious manner.  
10) Respond to pest-control issues (e.g., infestations, perceived or real, of rats, mice, insects, 
gophers, wasps, or spiders, etc.)  
11) Investigate dog vs. dog incidents at County and/or City or other approved off-leash dog areas 
including dog parks, beaches, public parks, etc. Contractor will investigate dog vs. dog incidents 
at approved off leash dog areas as defined in the Ordinance. 
12) Investigation of Animal Cruelty cases. This will be funded by the contractor’s non-profit 
organization. Contractor will ensure that the Humane investigators attend an annual training with 
the District Attorney’s office and send a report annually on the number of cruelty cases 
investigate along with the number of cases sent to the District Attorney for prosecution. In the 
event that Contractor determines that its donor funding levels have been reduced to the level that 
it cannot sustain the Cruelty/Neglect program, the parties agree to meet and confer about 
whether or not to amend this Agreement to allow for County and City cost sharing to support the 
program, or the County and cities taking over responsibility for the costs of the program.  
13) Spay & Neutering of Animals being placed for adoptions and low-cost surgeries for the public. 
This will be funded by the contractor’s non-profit organization. Annually a report will be sent to the 
County that includes number of public and adoptable animal surgeries and number of surgeries 
performed for County residents and non-residents. 
14) Care, treatment and rehabilitation of wildlife. 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
150 of 734

--- page 151 ---
46 
 
Exhibit D 
Contract Areas 
 
The unincorporated County and the following Cities have contracted for services pursuant to this Services 
Agreement: 
 
Atherton 
Belmont 
Brisbane 
Burlingame 
Colma 
Daly City 
East Palo Alto 
Foster City 
Half Moon Bay 
Hillsborough 
Menlo Park 
Millbrae 
Pacifica 
Portola Valley 
Redwood City 
San Bruno 
San Carlos 
San Mateo 
South San Francisco 
Woodside 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
151 of 734

--- page 152 ---
47 
 
Exhibit E 
Fees to be Collected for Services Provided 
 
In consideration of the payments set forth in Exhibit B, Contractor shall make every attempt to collect all 
of the following fees from the responsible party. Contractor has no authority to negotiate, waive, or retain 
fees. 
A. The following are fees as outlined in the applicable County or City Fee Ordinance are to be 
charged and collected by the Contractor to the party taking responsibility of the animal and 
then sent on a weekly basis to the County by the Contractor.  
1. Licensing revenue is to be itemized by jurisdiction and category type.in a format 
provided by the County. 
a) All licensing fees as shown in San Mateo County ordinance 6.04.290 (a) and comparable 
City ordinances, including late fees whenever applicable. 
B. The following are fees as outlined in the applicable County or City Fee Ordinance are to be 
charged and collected by the Contractor to the party taking responsibility of the animal and 
then sent on a monthly basis to the County by the Contractor. 
1. All redemption charges as shown in San Mateo County Ordinance 6.04.290 (b) with 
the following limitation: 
a) Impound charges and board costs for all animals except wildlife, unless wildlife is legally 
under permit for possession by a private citizen, including Vincent Bill Unaltered impound 
fees; 
b) Transportation and trailing costs for equine, swine, bovine, sheep, goats, and any other 
animals Contractor deems advisable to move by trailer; and 
c) Animal rescue costs on private property. 
2. All surrender, euthanasia and dead on arrival disposal fees, as shown in San Mateo 
County Ordinance 6.04.290 (c). 
3. Quarantine fee – Home, as shown in San Mateo County Ordinance 6.04.290 (d). 
4. Dangerous Animal Permit – permit, inspection, and signage fees, as shown in San 
Mateo County Ordinance 6.04.290 (e), (f), and (g). 
5. Field Return fees, as shown in San Mateo County Ordinance 6.04.290 (h). 
6. Breeding and Fancier Permit fees, as shown in San Mateo County Ordinance 6.04.290 
(i) and (j). 
7. Return check fees, as shown in San Mateo County Ordinance 6.04.290 (k). 
8. Record request fees, as shown in San Mateo County Ordinance 6.04.290 (l). 
9. Administrative hearing fees, as shown in San Mateo County Ordinance 6.04.115 (f) or 
the applicable city ordinance. 
10. Fees collected for dead animal pick-up in public areas and disposal; trap rental; dead 
animal pick-up on private property; and citation clearance. 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
152 of 734

--- page 153 ---
48 
 
C. Uncollectable Fees  
1. Contractor has no legal authority to negotiate, waive or retain fees for services unless 
provided by the applicable ordinance. Contractor shall collect all fees at the time of 
service or prior to release of impounded animal or release otherwise authorized per this 
Agreement.  
2. Contractor shall use all reasonable efforts to collect the fee from the responsible party 
at the time the animal is returned to the owner or the owner’s representative, and shall 
not release the animal until fees are paid unless refusing to release the animal would, in 
Contractor’s reasonable estimation, potentially jeopardize the safety of its staff, 
volunteers or facility. 
3. Contractor will provide responsible party with a form provided by the County and 
agreed to by Contractor. Form will acknowledge debt for services provided by Contractor 
by executing said form with responsible parties’ signature. Parties shall meet when 
necessary to agree upon the form. 
4. If fees remain uncollectable after reasonable efforts, Contractor will send the following 
to the County on a monthly basis: 
a) Excel spreadsheet showing the following: 
(1) Responsible party’s name, address, and telephone 
(2) Service provided and fee charged by Contractor 
(3) Reason Contractor was unable to collect fee at the time of service 
b) Itemized invoice 
c) Returned check, if applicable 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
153 of 734

--- page 154 ---
49 
 
Exhibit F 
Five-Year Budget (PROPOSED IN RFP) 
 
Entity Name: Peninsula Humane Society  
  
Year 1 Budget 
Year 2 Budget 
Year 3 Budget 
Year 4 Budget 
Year 5 Budget 
Grand  
Budget Category 
Total 
Total 
Total 
Total 
Total 
Total 
Personnel 
$3,432,241.20 
$3,529,662.03 
$3,635,551.89 
$3,744,618.44 
$3,856,957.00 
$18,199,030.55 
Fringe 
$1,120,626.75 
$1,152,434.65 
$1,187,007.69 
$1,222,617.92 
$1,259,296.46 
$5,941,983.48 
Operating Expenses 
$1,139,500.00 
$1,162,290.00 
$1,185,535.80 
$1,209,246.52 
$1,233,431.45 
$5,930,003.76 
Equipment 
$78,200.00 
$79,764.00 
$81,359.28 
$82,986.47 
$90,058.36 
$412,368.10 
Subcontracts 
$387,080.00 
$373,221.60 
$379,486.03 
$385,875.75 
$392,393.27 
$1,918,056.65 
Other Costs 
$31,643.00 
$30,108.00 
$30,514.98 
$28,678.90 
$26,602.48 
$147,547.36 
Total Expenditures  
$6,189,290.95  
$6,327,480.28  
$6,499,455.67  
$6,674,024.00  
$6,858,739.01  
$32,548,989.91  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
154 of 734

--- page 155 ---
50 
 
Attachment H 
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) 
Business Associate Requirements 
I. DEFINITIONS 
 
Terms used, but not otherwise defined, in this Schedule shall have the same meaning as those terms are 
defined in 45 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) sections 160.103, 164.304, and 
164.501. All regulatory references in this Schedule are to Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations 
unless otherwise specified. 
a. Business Associate. “Business Associate" shall generally have the same meaning as the 
term "business associate" at 45 CFR 160.103, and in reference to the parties to this 
agreement shall mean Contractor. 
b. Covered Entity. "Covered entity" shall generally have the same meaning as the term 
“covered entity” at 45 CFR 160.103, and in reference to the party to this agreement shall 
mean County. 
c. HIPAA Rules. "HIPAA rules" shall mean the Privacy, Security, Breach Notification and 
Enforcement Rules at 45 CFR part 160 and part 164, as amended and supplemented by 
Subtitle D of the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act 
provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. 
d. Designated Record Set. "Designated Record Set" shall have the same meaning as the 
term "designated record set" in Section 164.501. 
e. Electronic Protected Health Information. "Electronic Protected Health Information" 
(EPHI) means individually identifiable health information that is transmitted or maintained in 
electronic media; it is limited to the information created, received, maintained or transmitted 
by Business Associate from or on behalf of Covered Entity. 
f. 
Individual. "Individual" shall have the same meaning as the term "individual" in Section 164.501 
and shall include a person who qualifies as a personal representative in accordance with 
Section 164.502(g). 
g. Privacy Rule. "Privacy Rule" shall mean the Standards for Privacy of Individually 
Identifiable Health Information at 45 CFR Part 160 and Part 164, Subparts A and E. 
h. Protected Health Information. "Protected Health Information" (PHI) shall have the same 
meaning as the term "protected health information" in Section 164.503 and is limited to the 
information created or received by Business Associate from or on behalf of County. 
i. 
Required By Law. "Required by law" shall have the same meaning as the term "required by 
law" in Section 164.501. 
j. 
Secretary. "Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the United States Department of Health and 
Human Services or his or her designee.  
k. Breach. The acquisition, access, use, or disclosure of PHI in violation of the Privacy Rule that 
compromises the security or privacy of the PHI and subject to the exclusions set forth in Section 
164.402. Unless an exception applies, an impermissible use or disclosure of PHI is presumed to 
be a breach, unless it can be demonstrated there is a low probability that the PHI has been 
compromised based upon, at minimum, a four-part risk assessment: 
1. Nature and extent of PHI included, identifiers and likelihood of re-identification; 
2. Identity of the unauthorized person or to whom impermissible disclosure was made; 
3. Whether PHI was actually viewed or only the opportunity to do so existed; 
4. The extent to which the risk has been mitigated. 
l. 
Security Rule. "Security Rule" shall mean the Security Standards for the Protection of 
Electronic Protected Health Information at 45 CFR Part 160 and Part 164, Subparts A and C. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
155 of 734

--- page 156 ---
51 
 
m. Unsecured PHI. “Unsecured PHI” is protected health information that is not rendered 
unusable, unreadable, or indecipherable to unauthorized individuals through the use of a 
technology or methodology specified by the Secretary in relevant HHS guidance. 
n. Security Incident. "Security Incident" shall mean the attempted or successful 
unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification, or destruction of information or 
interference with systems operations in an information system. “Security Incident” 
includes all incidents that constitute breaches of unsecured protected health information. 
 
II. OBLIGATIONS AND ACTIVITES OF CONTRACTOR AS BUSINESS ASSOCIATE 
 
a. Business Associate agrees to not use or further disclose Protected Health Information other 
than as permitted or required by the Agreement or as required by law. 
b. Business Associate agrees to use appropriate safeguards to comply with Subpart C of 45 
CFR part 164 with respect to EPHI and PHI, and to prevent the use or disclosure of the 
Protected Health Information other than as provided for by this Agreement. 
c. Business Associate agrees to make uses and disclosures requests for Protected Health 
Information consistent with minimum necessary policy and procedures. 
d. Business Associate may not use or disclose protected health information in a manner that 
would violate subpart E of 45 CFR part 164.504 if used or disclosed by Covered Entity. 
e. Business Associate agrees to mitigate, to the extent practicable, any harmful effect that is 
known to Business Associate of a use or disclosure of Protected Health Information by 
Business Associate in violation of the requirements of this Agreement. 
f. 
Business Associate agrees to report to County any use or disclosure of Protected 
Health Information not authorized by this Agreement. 
g. Business Associate agrees to ensure that any agent, including a subcontractor, to whom it 
provides Protected Health Information received from, or created or received by Business 
Associate on behalf of County, agrees to adhere to the same restrictions and conditions 
that apply through this Agreement to Business Associate with respect to such information. 
h. If Business Associate has Protected Health Information in a Designated Record Set, 
Business Associate agrees to provide access, at the request of County, and in the time and 
manner designated by County, to Protected Health Information in a Designated Record Set, 
to County or, as directed by County, to an Individual in order to meet the requirements 
under Section 164.524. 
i. 
If Business Associate has Protected Health Information in a Designated Record Set, 
Business Associate agrees to make any amendment(s) to Protected Health Information in a 
Designated Record Set that the County directs or agrees to make pursuant to Section 
164.526 at the request of County or an Individual, and in the time and manner designed by 
County. 
j. 
Business Associate agrees to make internal practices, books, and records relating to the 
use and disclosure of Protected Health Information received from, or created or received by 
Business Associate on behalf of County, available to the County at the request of County or 
the Secretary, in a time and manner designated by the County or the Secretary, for 
purposes of the Secretary determining County's compliance with the Privacy Rule. 
k. Business Associate agrees to document such disclosures of Protected Health 
Information and information related to such disclosures as would be required for County 
to respond to a request by an Individual for an accounting of disclosures of Protected 
Health Information in accordance with Section 164.528. 
l. 
Business Associate agrees to provide to County or an Individual in the time and manner 
designated by County, information collected in accordance with Section (k) of this 
Schedule, in order to permit County to respond to a request by an Individual for an 
accounting of disclosures of Protected Health Information in accordance with Section 
164.528. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
156 of 734

--- page 157 ---
52 
 
m. Business Associate shall implement administrative, physical, and technical safeguards that 
reasonably and appropriately protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of EPHI 
that Business Associate creates, receives, maintains, or transmits on behalf of County. 
n. Business Associate shall conform to generally accepted system security principles and the 
requirements of the final HIPAA rule pertaining to the security of health information. 
o. Business Associate shall ensure that any agent to whom it provides EPHI, including a 
subcontractor, agrees to implement reasonable and appropriate safeguards to protect 
such EPHI. 
p. Business Associate shall report to County any Security Incident within three (3) business 
days of becoming aware of such incident. Business Associate shall also facilitate breach 
notification(s) to the appropriate governing body (i.e. HHS, OCR, etc.) as required by law. 
As appropriate and after consulting with County, Business Associate shall also notify 
affected individuals and the media of a qualifying breach. 
q. Business Associate understands that it is directly liable under the HIPAA rules and subject 
to civil and, in some cases, criminal penalties for making uses and disclosures of Protected 
Health Information that are not authorized by this Attachment, the underlying contract as or 
required by law. 
 
III. PERMITTED USES AND DISCLOSURES BY CONTRACTOR AS BUSINESS 
ASSOCIATE 
 
Except as otherwise limited in this Schedule, Business Associate may use or disclose Protected 
Health Information to perform functions, activities, or services for, or on behalf of, County as specified 
in the Agreement; provided that such use or disclosure would not violate the Privacy Rule if done by 
County. 
 
IV. OBLIGATIONS OF COUNTY 
 
a. County shall provide Business Associate with the notice of privacy practices that County 
produces in accordance with Section 164.520, as well as any changes to such notice. 
b. County shall provide Business Associate with any changes in, or revocation of, 
permission by Individual to use or disclose Protected Health Information, if such 
changes affect Business Associate's permitted or required uses and disclosures. 
c. County shall notify Business Associate of any restriction to the use or disclosure of 
Protected Health Information that County has agreed to in accordance with Section 
164.522. 
 
V. PERMISSABLE REQUESTS BY COUNTY 
 
County shall not request Business Associate to use or disclose Protected Health Information in any 
manner that would not be permissible under the Privacy Rule if so requested by County, unless the 
Business Associate will use or disclose Protected Health Information for, and if the Agreement 
provides for, data aggregation or management and administrative activities of Business Associate. 
 
VI. DUTIES UPON TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT 
 
a. Upon termination of the Agreement, for any reason, Business Associate shall return or destroy 
all Protected Health Information received from County, or created, maintained, or received by 
Business Associate on behalf of County, that Business Associate still maintains in any form. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
157 of 734

--- page 158 ---
53 
 
This provision shall apply to Protected Health Information that is in the possession of 
subcontractors or agents of Business Associate. Business Associate shall retain no copies of 
the Protected Health Information. 
b. In the event that Business Associate determines that returning or destroying Protected Health 
Information is infeasible, Business Associate shall provide to County notification of the 
conditions that make return or destruction infeasible. Upon mutual agreement of the Parties 
that return or destruction of Protected Health Information is infeasible, Business Associate 
shall extend the protections of the Agreement to such Protected Health Information and limit 
further uses and disclosures of such Protected Health Information to those purposes that make 
the return or destruction infeasible, for so long as Business Associate maintains such 
Protection Health Information. 
 
VII. MISCELLANEOUS 
 
a. Regulatory References. A reference in this Schedule to a section in the HIPAA Privacy Rule 
means the section as in effect or as amended, and for which compliance is required. 
b. Amendment. The Parties agree to take such action as is necessary to amend this Schedule from 
time to time as is necessary for County to comply with the requirements of the Privacy Rule and 
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Public Law 104-191. 
c. Survival. The respective rights and obligations of Business Associate under this Schedule shall 
survive the termination of the Agreement. 
d. Interpretation. Any ambiguity in this Schedule shall be resolved in favor of a meaning that permits 
County to comply with the Privacy Rule. 
e. Reservation of Right to Monitor Activities. County reserves the right to monitor the security 
policies and procedures of Business Associate. 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
158 of 734

--- page 159 ---
54 
 
Attachment I 
Fingerprinting Certification Form 
 
DATE: 
July 1, 2021 
AGREEMENT WITH: 
Peninsula Humane Society & SPCA 
FOR: 
Peninsula Humane Society & SPCA  
 
 
Contractor will require records of fingerprinting and background checks for program staff in sensitive positions 
including animal control officers, humane officers, and staff who treat animals with controlled drugs or perform 
euthanasia.  
NAME: Anthony Tansimore 
TITLE: President:Customer1 
SIGNATURE: 
 
 
 
 
DATE: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
5/6/2021 | 4:03 PM PDT
159 of 734

--- page 160 ---
55 
 
Attachment J 
Rabies Algorithm 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
160 of 734

--- page 161 ---
56 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
161 of 734

--- page 162 ---
57 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
162 of 734

--- page 163 ---
58 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
163 of 734

--- page 164 ---
59 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
164 of 734

--- page 165 ---
60 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
165 of 734

--- page 166 ---
61 
 
Attachment K 
Animal Shelter Facility Use and Maintenance Agreement   
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
166 of 734

--- page 167 ---
Animal Shelter Facility 
Use and Maintenance Agreement 
Between 
 
The County of San Mateo as “County" 
and 
 
Peninsula Humane Society & SPCA as “Contractor" 
for 
 
The Animal Shelter Facility 
12 Airport Blvd, San Mateo CA  94401 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
167 of 734

--- page 168 ---
1 
 
Section I.  General Provisions 
A. 
The purpose of this Animal Shelter Facility Maintenance Agreement ("Agreement") is 
to set forth the roles and responsibilities of the County of San Mateo (hereinafter 
"County," which includes employees, officers, and authorized representatives), 
acting through its San Mateo County Health Division of Public Health Policy & 
Planning ("PHPP"), and the County Public Works Department Facilities 
Maintenance, Operations and Building Services ("Facilities Services"); and the 
Peninsula Humane Society & SPCA (hereinafter "Contractor," which includes 
employees, officers, and authorized representatives) for Contractor's use, operation 
and management of the Animal Shelter Facility, located at 12 Airport Boulevard, in 
the incorporated area of the City of San Mateo, California ("Shelter"). 
 
B. 
The parties understand and agree that Contractor's use of the County-owned Shelter 
is pursuant to and contingent upon an active Service Agreement between Contractor 
and County for Contractor's animal control services to the County ("Animal Control 
Services Agreement"). Contractor may use and occupy the Shelter only for the 
purpose of providing animal control and sheltering services to the County and cities 
as set forth in the Animal Control Services Agreement and any additional activities as 
mutually agreed to by Parties. This Agreement shall terminate concurrently with the 
Animal Control Services Agreement. 
 
If there is a material breach of this Agreement by Contractor, then this Agreement is 
subject to termination at the County's option if Contractor fails to cure the breach 
within sixty days (60) notice by County of such breach. However, if the breach Is 
causing continuing damage to the Shelter, County may take any steps necessary to 
immediately halt such damage, and if the breach is intentional or negligent, then 
Contractor shall be solely responsible for the cost and expense. 
 
Upon expiration or termination of this Agreement and/or the Animal Control Service 
Agreement, Contactor shall be given 7 days to vacate the Shelter by removing all 
Contractor-owned and personal items and return the Shelter in a clean and orderly 
fashion, ordinary wear and tear excepted. Contractor will use best efforts to not 
disrupt any operations occurring at the shelter during this time 
C. 
This Agreement shall be in effect from the date last signed below and run concurrent 
with the Animal Services Agreement and any fully executed extensions. Upon 
termination of this Agreement, Contractor shall vacate the Shelter on the date of 
termination and return it to County in good condition, excepting normal wear and 
tear. Any damage to the Shelter caused by the negligent or intentional acts of 
Contractor shall be promptly repaired by Contractor at its sole expense and not out 
of Contract funds or other County funds. 
D. 
The County acknowledges and agrees that the entirety of fees and costs related to 
Contractor's operation of the Shelter, and/or performance of this Agreement, shall be 
funded solely from the Contract Funds provided to Contractor from County under the 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
168 of 734

--- page 169 ---
2 
 
Animal Control Services Agreement, except as otherwise provided herein. The 
County and Contractor acknowledge and agree that if the Contract Funds prove 
insufficient to meet the financial needs of maintaining the Shelter, and/or performing 
Contractor's maintenance and repair duties under this Agreement, the Contractor will 
not be responsible for the payment of any overage, unless caused by its negligent or 
intentional acts or omissions.  If the Contractor anticipates costs that will exceed the 
Contract Funds, Contractor will use best efforts to provide County with notice as 
soon as it becomes aware of such potential overage, on a quarterly basis, and 
provide adequate documentation of the cause and amount of such anticipated 
coverage. 
E. 
Indemnification and Insurance 
1. 
Hold Harmless & Indemnification 
(i) 
Contractor shall hold harmless and indemnify the County, and each 
participating city as listed in the Animal Shelter Service Agreement as 
third party beneficiaries, their officers, agents, and employees from all 
claims related to performance of this Agreement and/or use, operation, 
maintenance or repair of the Shelter by Contractor or its employees, 
contractors or agents including suits or actions of every name, kind and 
description, brought for, or on account of: (1) injuries to or death of any 
person, including but not limited to actions brought for (or on account of) 
injuries or death to County or Contractor's agents, officers or employees; 
(2) damage to property of any kind whatsoever and to whomsoever 
belonging, including but not limited to damage to property of County or 
Contractor or its agents, officers, or employees; or any other loss or cost, 
resulting from the performance or nonperformance of any activities 
undertaken under this Agreement, and/or which result from the negligent 
or intentional acts or omissions of Contractor, its officers, agents or 
employees. This obligation shall survive the termination of this Agreement 
for any claims arising during its term. 
 
(ii) 
The County shall hold harmless and indemnify Contractor, its officers, 
agents, and employees from all claims caused by the conduct of the 
County, or its agents, officers or employees, including but not limited to 
suits or actions of every name, kind and description, brought for, or on 
account of: (1) any and all claims related to the construction, and/or repair 
of the shelter by the County, whether such claims are based on 
performance or performance of an obligation, and whether such claims 
are based on conduct that happened before and/or after Contractor took 
possession of the Shelter; (2) injuries to or death of any person, including 
but not limited to actions brought for (or on account of) injuries or death to 
County's agents, officers or employees; (3) damage to property of any 
kind whatsoever and to whomsoever belonging, including but not limited 
to damage to property of the County or its agents, officers, or employees; 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
169 of 734

--- page 170 ---
3 
 
or any other loss or cost, resulting from the performance or 
nonperformance of any activities undertaken under this Agreement, and 
which result from the negligent or intentional acts or omissions of the 
County, its officers or employees. This obligation shall survive the 
termination of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
In the event claims are brought against Contractor and County, the 
ultimate liability for damages, shall be apportioned according to the 
comparative fault of Contractor and County. 
The duty of Contractor, and of the County, to relieve, indemnify, protect 
and hold harmless, as set forth hereinabove, shall include the duty to 
defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the California Civil Code. 
2. 
Property Damage Coverage  
 
All Risk Contractor at its cost shall maintain on the building and improvements 
that are a part of the Shelter a policy of all risk property, in the amount of the 
replacement value of the Shelter, its improvements and contents. The insurance 
policy shall be issued in the names of County and Contractor as their interests 
appear. The insurance policy shall provide that any proceeds shall be payable to 
County, excluding proceeds related to damage to equipment and supplies owned 
by Contractor. 
 
3. 
Liability Insurance 
Contractor at its cost shall maintain Comprehensive Liability insurance for the 
following coverages with the following limits Insuring against all liability of 
Contractor and its authorized representatives arising out of and in connection 
with Contractor's use or occupancy of the Premises: 
(i) 
Shelter Premises Liability with a minimum limit of $1,000,000 Combined 
Single Limit (CSL) each occurrence; and 
(ii) 
All Comprehensive Liability insurance shall insure performance by 
Contractor of the Hold Harmless and Indemnification Sub-section of this 
Agreement; 
(iii) 
County shall be named as "additionally insured"; 
(iv) 
All required Insurance shall contain a Separation of Insureds or 
Severability of Interests provision; and 
(v) 
The policy shall not be cancelled or non-renewed unless the County has 
received 30 days prior written notice.  (Ten days prior notice in the event 
of cancellation for nonpayment of premium is acceptable.) Written notice 
shall be sent to:  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
170 of 734

--- page 171 ---
4 
 
County of San Mateo 
Attn: Animal Services 
225 37th Ave. 
San Mateo CA. 94403 
 
4. 
Workers' Compensation and Employer's Liability Insurance 
During the entire term of this Agreement, Contractor shall have in effect Workers' 
Compensation coverage providing full statutory benefits and employer's liability. 
In executing this Agreement, Contractor makes the following certification: 
 
Contractor is aware of the provisions of Section 3700 of the California Labor 
Code, which require every employer (1) to be insured against liability for Workers' 
Compensation or (2) to undertake self-insurance in accordance with the 
provisions of the Code. Contractor will comply with such provisions. 
 
5. 
Miscellaneous Insurance Provisions 
Contractor shall pay the premiums for maintaining the insurance required 
hereinabove. All the insurance required under this Agreement shall: 
 
(i) 
Be issued by insurance companies authorized to do business in the State 
of California, with a financial rating of at least an A- IV status as rated in 
the most recent edition of Best's Insurance Reports. Coverage provided 
by State Fund Insurance shall satisfy this requirement. 
(ii) 
Be issued as a primary policy. 
(iii) 
Contain an endorsement requiring thirty (30) days' notice from the 
insurance company to both parties before cancellation or change in the 
coverage, scope, or amount of any policy. 
(iv) 
County shall be named as "additionally insured" on each policy. 
 
6. 
Certificate of Insurance 
A certificate of insurance, together with evidence of payment of premium, shall 
be deposited with County at the commencement of this Agreement, and on 
renewal of the policy not less than twenty (20) days before expiration of each 
policy. 
 
In the event Contractor fails to deliver the certificate of insurance verifying 
insurance coverage as required in this Section, County may declare a material 
breach and terminate the Agreement as provided herein or, at its option take out 
all or part of the required insurance and pay the premium thereon on behalf of 
Contractor. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
171 of 734

--- page 172 ---
5 
 
7. 
Force Majeure 
(i) 
Neither party is responsible for any failure to perform or delay In 
performing its obligations under this contract, to the extent it is prevented 
or delayed in performing those obligations by an event of force majeure. 
(ii) 
Where there is an event of force majeure, the party prevented from or 
delayed in performing its obligations under this contract must immediately 
notify the other party giving full particulars of the event of force majeure 
and the reasons for the event of force majeure preventing that party from, 
or delaying that party In performing its obligations under this contract and 
that party must use its reasonable efforts to mitigate the effect of the 
event of force majeure upon its or their performance of the contract and to 
fulfil its or their obligations under the contract. 
(iii) 
Upon completion of the event of force majeure the party affected must as 
soon as reasonably practicable recommence the performance of its 
obligations under this contract. Where the party affected is the contractor, 
the contractor must provide, within 15 business day, a schedule for 
managing the Contractor's obligations under this Agreement to minimize 
the effects of the prevention or delay caused by the event of force 
majeure. 
(iv) 
An event of force majeure does not relieve a party from liability for an 
obligation which arose before the occurrence of that event, nor does that 
event affect the obligation to pay money in a timely manner which 
matured prior to the occurrence of that event. 
(v) 
Definition. An event of force majeure is an event or circumstance which is 
beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the party 
affected and which by the exercise of reasonable diligence the party 
affected was unable to prevent, and includes but is not limited to such 
matters as: 
a) 
riot, war, invasion, act of foreign enemies, hostilities (whether war 
be declared or not) acts of terrorism, civil war, rebellion, 
revolution, insurrection of military or usurped power, requisition or 
compulsory acquisition by any governmental or competent 
authority; 
b) 
ionizing radiation or contamination, radio activity from any nuclear 
fuel or from any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear 
fuel, radioactive toxic explosive or other hazardous properties of 
any explosive assembly or nuclear component; 
c) 
pressure waves caused by aircraft or other aerial devices 
travelling at sonic or supersonic speeds; 
d) 
earthquakes, flood, fire or other physical natural disaster, but 
excluding weather conditions regardless of severity; 
e) 
regional health emergency due to government health 
advisory(ies); and 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
172 of 734

--- page 173 ---
6 
 
f) 
strikes at national level or industrial disputes at a national level, or 
strike or industrial disputes by labor not employed by the affected 
party, its subcontractors or its suppliers and which affect an 
essential portion of the works but excluding any industrial dispute 
which Is specific to the performance of the works or this contract. 
g) 
Increased costs incurred by Contractor in the provision of services 
under this Agreement, shall not In itself be considered an event of 
force majeure even if such increased costs are the result of such 
an event. 
Section II. Contract Information 
 
To better coordinate all services, Facilities Services has established the Facilities Customer 
Service Center (FCSC). The FCSC provides a single point of contact for customers and 
dispatch of staff and should be the primary resource for departmental or Contractor's 
Maintenance Coordinators and others responsible for requesting maintenance services. The 
FCSC is staffed during normal business hours and can be reached at 363-4444. 
For management issues and/or to discuss specific activities or projects, the overall coordinator 
of this Agreement and the main point of contact is Gary Behrens, Facilities Services Manager, 
363-1875. 
For custodial issues specifically, contact Duane Minor, Building Services  Manager,  363-4445. 
The supervisor for each area or function will manage day-to-day activities: 
1. 
Win Maung, 599-1300 (wmaung@smcgov.org). Operation and maintenance of 
facility systems and equipment for County owned buildings at the Government 
Center, Redwood City. 
2. 
Thomas Sipp, 312-5257 (tsipp@smcgov.org). Operation and maintenance of 
facility systems and equipment for County owned and leased buildings in outlying 
areas. 
3. 
Patrick Oliver, Crafts Supervisor, 363-1877 (poliver@smcgov.org). Repair, 
maintenance, and safety/regulation required upgrades related to carpentry, 
painting, and locksmith services for all County facilities. 
4. 
Jose Villalobos or Mark LaGrone, 363-1951 (jvillalobos@smcgo.vorg & 
mlagrone@smcgov.org). Custodial, parking lot, loading dock, and room set-up 
services for all County Center facilities. 
Facilities Services is responsible for updating and maintaining this list with current contact 
information. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
173 of 734

--- page 174 ---
7 
 
Section III. Baseline Services 
 
The baseline services outlined below are to be paid for by Contractor solely with funds provided 
to Contractor under the Animal Control Services Agreement the provided ("Contract Funds") 
(see Section VII for current charges). If these fees exceed the Contract Funds, the financial 
obligations shall be resolved in accordance with Section I.D., supra. 
 
A. 
General Shelter Facility 
1. 
Preventive Maintenance and Routine Repairs 
Facilities Services will responsible for performing regular repair and maintenance 
on the Shelter, including all parts, material and labor. Facilities Services will 
make, or schedule repairs as determined by the County to be needed, or 
pursuant to a reasonable request by Contractor, with 24 hours advance notice to 
Contractor if possible, by phone or email. Repairs and maintenance include, but 
are not limited to, any and all work on the following areas of the Shelter: 
i. Structural portions of buildings (roof, gutters, doors, skylights 
windows, flooring) 
ii. Solar panels and carports 
iii. Repair and maintenance to the building mechanical systems including 
heating, ventilation & air conditioning system (HVAC), electrical 
distribution and lighting 
iv. Repairs of electrical systems (except for light fixtures) 
v. Exterior painting (with exception of any touch-up exterior painting) 
vi. Interior painting of common areas in County standard colors 
(entrances, lobbies, restrooms, main hallways) 
vii. All major plumbing issues shall be maintained by Facilities Services; 
however, toilet fixtures and sink clogs shall be the responsibility of the 
Contractor. If any damage is caused by Contractor's, or a vendor of 
Contractor's, intentional or negligent acts, Contractor shall be 
responsible for the cost of repair, not out of Contract Funds. County 
shall not be considered a vendor for the purposes of this Agreement. 
viii. Preventative maintenance of the fire alarm system 
ix. Generators and emergency power systems 
x. All warranty work related to the new construction. Facilities Services 
to communicate to Contractor which items are under warranty. 
xi. Facilities Services staff will perform quarterly facility inspections to 
identify the condition of the various systems and structure and will 
identify necessary repairs or maintenance to be performed to keep the 
facility in proper condition. Facilities Services and other County staff 
or officials may inspect the condition of the Shelter Facility at any time 
during working hours. In order to limit the impact to Contractor 
operations, County shall provide Contractor with at least 24 hours' 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
174 of 734

--- page 175 ---
8 
 
notice of the intended inspection, which notice may be provided by 
email. 
 
2. 
Contractor Obligation to Notify of Needed Repairs or Maintenance 
Contractor shall promptly notify Facilities Services of any necessary repairs or 
maintenance that could impact the long-term condition of the Shelter, or the 
provision of animal control and animal care services to the   County. 
3. 
Emergency Repairs 
Facilities Services will assure response in all critical situations within 2 hours of 
receiving actual notice, making immediate temporary repairs when required for 
safety or security reasons. Examples of such situations include but are not 
limited to: 
(i) 
Broken windows, doors and locks 
(ii) 
Air conditioning in computer server rooms and other sensitive areas 
(iii) 
Interruption of electrical service 
(iv) 
Broken pipes and clogged plumbing (Contractor shall try to clear clogs In 
toilet or drain prior to calling Facilities Services) 
(v) 
Leaking roofs 
(vi) 
Damage resulting from natural disasters 
(vii) 
Other situations which Contractor or County reasonably determines 
compromises the immediate health or well-being of the animals, the staff, 
volunteers or visiting public. 
 
4. 
Process by which Contractor addresses Repairs/Service Needed on an 
Emergency Basis 
(i) 
Upon becoming aware of a situation, Contractor shall immediately notify 
Facilities Services of any repairs or maintenance needed to address 
items that could cause immediate damage or injury to the Shelter, or to 
persons working or animals being cared for therein, including but not 
limited to plumbing/water leaks, roof leaks, or fire or other hazards. 
(ii) 
Should an urgent situation arise in which Facilities Services is unable to 
respond within 2 hours to a major system failure which has the potential 
for immediate and serious health or safety impacts to animals, 
staff/volunteers, employees, or the public, and/or the continued operation 
of essential animal control and sheltering programs and which cannot be 
otherwise managed or contained, Contractor may retain the services of a 
reputable repair person to address the issue, after notifying Facilities 
Services. 
(iii) 
Contractor shall notify Facilities Services and PHPP within 2 hours of its 
decision and reasoning to take such actions. Contractor will provide 
Facilities Services with the key points of how the issue is being 
addressed. If possible, Contractor will arrange for a temporary solution so 
that Facilities Services can complete the full work once they are available. 
Contractor will use Contract Funds if Contractor incurs expenses due to 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
175 of 734

--- page 176 ---
9 
 
an emergency repair as outlined in this subsection, unless caused by the 
intentional or negligent acts or omissions of Contractor, or its vendors, in 
which case Contractor shall be responsible for these expenses not using 
Contract Funds. 
(iv) 
Contractor must comply with any prevailing wage requirements of state 
law as applicable for any construction or repair it undertakes not 
performed by Facilities Services. 
5. 
Utilities 
(i) 
Contractor is responsible for furnishing and paying for all utilities for the 
Shelter, including gas, water, electricity, sewer, telephone/internet and 
garbage service. All utility services shall be paid from the provided 
Contract Funds. 
(ii) 
Contractor shall maintain all records pertaining to all repair, replacement, 
maintenance utility and other services provided under this Agreement for 
a period of four years after County makes final payment and all other 
pending matters are closed, and Contractor shall be subject to the 
examination and/or audit by the County, a Federal granter agency, and 
the State of California. 
6. 
Signage 
(i) 
Facilities Services will provide directional signs for parking lots and 
building lobbies. 
(ii) 
Contractor will have input on suitability of all signage installed by County. 
PHS will not install signage without approval of County. 
 
7. 
Pest Control 
Contractor will use best efforts to maintain the Shelter pest- free. 
Contractor (PHS) will enter into, pay the costs of, and monitor a recurring 
and scheduled contract for pest control services in and around the 
Shelter, and on an as needed basis. The contract shall cover control of all 
types of pests, including termites and all types of insects, rodents and 
other and vermin. Costs will be paid from Contract Funds. The pest 
control invoices/reports will be made available to County upon request. 
 
8. 
Disaster Response 
In the event of a natural disaster such as a major earthquake, Facilities 
Services staff are trained and prepared to respond to and secure building 
systems. County shall not be responsible or liable for any damages to 
Contractor or any third party for injuries or damages caused by a natural 
disaster or any injuries or damage to any person or property belonging to 
any person, or interruptions of any operations of Contractor, as  a result 
of a natural disaster. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
176 of 734

--- page 177 ---
10 
 
9. 
Skilled Craft Services 
i. Carpentry 
Facility Services carpenters will perform maintenance and repairs as 
needed as determined by the County Facilities Services, or upon 
reasonable request by Contractor, and approval by County on roofs, 
doors, windows, water damaged areas and hard surface floors in 
common areas. Facilities Services will also patch and repair chips and 
holes in walls. Other carpentry services are available on a fee for services 
basis {see Section IV). 
ii. Lock Work 
Locksmith services provided under baseline services Include the repair or 
replacement of broken building locksets (excluding Contractor property 
such as file cabinets and desk), repair or adjustment of improperly 
working door closers; providing duplicate keys with proper authorization; 
re-keying locks for security reasons as determined necessary by Facilities 
Services; replacing worn or outdated locksets; and any work required 
because of new codes and regulations, as determined by Facilities 
Services. Keys for or repairs to County property, including but not limited 
to desks, file cabinets, and vehicles are beyond the facility service charge 
and will be repaired by the contractor using funding from the animal 
control services Contract Funds. 
10. 
Grounds Services 
i. Landscaping 
Facilities Services is responsible for providing and monitoring the 
landscaping services for the Shelter. Under this contract, and as 
determined necessary or desirable by Facilities Maintenance, the 
landscaping crews will install and maintain irrigation systems; propagate 
and plant appropriate species; prune, trim, fertilize, now, and provide all 
other care and maintenance for plants, shrubs, trees, turf, and lawns. 
11. 
Custodial and Janitorial Services 
Contractor shall maintain all interior and exterior areas of the Shelter and 
grounds in a clean and sanitary condition. Contractor may provide this service 
through its staff or shall retain a reputable vendor to provide janitorial and 
custodial services at a reasonable cost and as needed to fulfill its responsibility to 
maintain the Shelter in a clean and sanitary condition. 
 
Facilities Services will provide no Custodial or Janitorial for the shelter. 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
177 of 734

--- page 178 ---
11 
 
Section IV. Additional Services 
Services requested by Contractor and not outlined in Section Ill are considered "additional 
services," and shall not be provided unless approved by the Directors of County Health and 
Department of Public Works. If approved, services listed below will be scheduled upon receipt of 
a work request from County Health, and the associated costs will be invoiced to the Contractor. 
Contractor will use Contract Funds to pay the invoice within 30 calendar days from date of 
mailing or emailing; if not timely paid, County will deduct the past due amount from Contractor's 
next monthly payment. The majority of these services are provided under the administration of 
the Construction Services Section (CSS) located at 30 Tower Road, San Mateo. Requests for 
services and cost estimates should be routed through San Mateo County Health System 
(Animal Control Manager). Contractor shall in no circumstance alter any part of the Shelter 
structure or install any fixture, without prior written County approval from the Directors of the 
San Mateo County Health and Department of Public Works. 
A. 
Carpentry 
New: 
 
Floor coverings 
 
Commercial fixtures 
 
Acoustical ceilings 
 
Doors/windows 
 
Soundproofing and insulation 
 
Air conditioning units 
 
Restroom partitions and fixtures tile work 
 
Concrete slabs and retaining walls 
Building and/or custom fabrication: 
 
Storage structures 
 
Security gates, windows, etc. 
 
Custom cabinets and casework 
 
Custom shelves, reception counters, etc. 
 
Wall framing and drywall 
 
Custom racks, bins, etc., for delivery vehicles 
B. 
Electrical 
 
Install additional electrical circuits and outlets 
 
Upgrade and install new workplace lighting 
 
Install Pleione electrical whips 
 
Install and maintain security alarm systems 
 
Set up temporary power for events.  
C. 
Lock Work 
 
Lock drilling (when keys are lost or locked inside, contact FM&O) 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
178 of 734

--- page 179 ---
12 
 
 
New installation (result of new construction or remodeling) 
D. 
Other 
 
Directional signs for departmental areas 
 
General construction site cleanup 
Need for county approval for any fixtures, repairs, remodeling or construction at the Shelter. Any 
of the above items as well as any new fixtures, construction, repairs or remodel (to include 
altering of the building or grounds in any way) may not be undertaken without the express, prior 
written permission of the Director of San Mateo County Health or designee, and the Director of 
the Department of Public Works, or designee, except as otherwise provided under this 
Agreement. 
If Contractor performs any construction work, remodeling or repairs, or attaches any fixtures to 
Shelter or other county-property without such written permission, or changes the grounds in any 
manner, Contractor must promptly return the Shelter building, property or grounds to its original 
condition at its own expense and not using Animal Control Services Contract Funds or any other 
County funding, except as otherwise provided under this Agreement. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
179 of 734

--- page 180 ---
13 
 
Section V. Excluded Services 
A. 
This Agreement does not include any of the following which will be Contractor 
responsibility: 
Contractor shall be solely responsible for maintaining the below items. Money for all repairs and 
costs will come from the Contract Funds. Any such items undertaken by Contractor shall be 
documented and all invoices for any such work, shall be kept and provided to County on a 
quarterly basis. For major equipment owned by the County (as listed In subsection (d) below, 
and any similar equipment), Contractor shall use a reputable, qualified, and licensed contractor 
or vendor, and may not use its own employees or volunteers for such work without County 
approval. If employees or volunteers are used for work, no additional County funds shall be 
used for such labor, except those funds otherwise used to pay the employee's regular salary. 
Contractor agrees that all major equipment owned by the County (as listed In subsection (d) 
below, and any similar equipment) will be serviced by a qualified vendor. 
1. 
Light bulb replacement to include lamps and ballast 
2. 
Plumbing clogs: Contractor will first attempt to unclog and if unsuccessful will 
submit a request to Facilities Services for repair. (Contractor may not hire a 
service to attempt to unclog pipes.) 
3. 
Equipment maintenance and repair as follows: 
 
Washers/dryers 
 
Kennel cleaning equipment 
 
Safes, lock boxes 
 
Clippers 
 
Surgical tables 
 
Audio visual equipment camera, security and intrusion alarms 
 
Computers/printers/scanners etc. and phone system 
 
Cash Registers/credit card machines, fax machine etc. 
 
Any other specialty equipment for animal sheltering 
 
Refrigerators 
4. 
These items must be repaired by a qualified vendor 
 
X-ray equipment 
 
Anesthetic machine 
 
Surgical lights 
 
Auto clave 
5. 
Kennel fencing repairs, to include the replacement of mud flaps or guillotine 
doors, door latches etc. (if CMU needs repair, the Contractor will submit a repair 
request to the Manager of Animal Control and Licensing for approval prior to 
contacting Facilities Services) 
6. 
General: 
 
Repair office furniture 
 
Anchor files and shelving 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
180 of 734

--- page 181 ---
14 
 
 
Hang pictures and bulletin boards; however, Contractor shall take care 
not to damage County property in its placement and installation of these 
or any other items attached to walls or ceilings 
7. 
Intercom systems 
8. 
Installation of new animal shelter equipment that is not attached to the structure. 
9. 
Replacement of any equipment purchased by the Contractor for use in animal 
sheltering or animal control operations: Contractor shall not replace equipment to 
be paid for by Contract Funds without prior approval from County of equipment to 
be replaced and cost if cost exceeds $5,000 per individual item. If the need to 
replace such equipment is due to Contractor misuse or negligence, as distinct 
from wear related to appropriate use, Contractor shall replace such equipment 
from its own funds not Contract Funds, or any other County funds. Funds for 
approved replacement equipment not misused or damaged by Contractor are to 
come from Contract Funds. Any equipment or items purchased with Contract 
Funds or other County funds Is property of the County.   Contractor shall use 
Contract Funds for purchase of equipment or vehicles to be used at the Shelter 
for providing services, which equipment. and vehicles shall be County owned. 
10. 
Paint offices, conference rooms and staff bathrooms. 
11. 
Keep the landscaped areas, walkways and patios, adjacent sidewalks, and other 
common areas In and around the County facility clean and in good repair 
12. 
Sweep the entrances to County facility as needed and will keep glass doors 
clean 
13. 
Contractor is solely responsible for custodial and pest control at the shelter. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
181 of 734

--- page 182 ---
15 
 
Section VI. Additional Responsibilities 
A. 
Facilities Services Responsibilities 
1. 
For routine maintenance of systems, Facilities Services will 
(i) 
Provide the Contractor with advance schedule to the extent practicable 
(ii) 
Provide Contractor no less than 24 hours' notice when that maintenance 
is to occur (allowing Contractor to weigh in as to whether or not the 
scheduled maintenance will interfere with operation and if it will interfere 
Contractor will give alternate dates within a reasonable time frame when 
the repair/service can be completed.) 
(iii) 
Provide Contractor with acknowledgement that the service has in fact 
occurred and any unusual findings related to that service. This notification 
will be done by a service request confirmation. 
 
2. 
For other than routine scheduled maintenance 
(i) 
Contractor will notify Facilities Services of needed repair/service without 
delay via phone, fax, or email to the DPW call center. Contractor shall be 
responsible for any damage to the Shelter, its contents or any person 
caused by its failure to timely notify the County of needed emergency 
repairs of conditions that threaten the structure or its contents or the 
health or safety of occupants or the public. 
(ii) 
Facilities Services will notify Contractor within 24 hours of its anticipated 
investigation of requested repair (if the matter is something that can be 
addressed at the time of investigation, Facilities Services to adhere to 
steps which follow): 
a) 
Notify the Contractor's Maintenance Coordinator at least 24 hours 
in advance of any scheduled maintenance activity that may affect 
the Contractor's normal working operation (noise, dust, odors, 
interruption of water or electrical service, etc.). 
b) 
Facilities Services to notify contractor of findings of the 
investigation and its plan to address (and except for the case of 
emergency repairs, allowing Contractor to weigh in if the 
scheduled repairs will interfere with its operation) 
c) 
Critical or emergent work will be completed at time of 
investigation. 
d) 
Facilities    Services    to   notify   Contractor   promptly   upon 
completion of the repair. Notification will be given by service 
request confirmation of close out. 
e) 
Contractor will notify Facilities Services of its review of the repair 
once completed. 
f) 
All communication between Contractor and Facilities Services will 
be copied to PHPP. 
g) 
Facilities Services will leave the work areas safe and clean of any 
debris caused by the repairs upon completion of the task.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
182 of 734

--- page 183 ---
16 
 
h) 
Facilities Services and Contractor will comply with all state and 
federal laws and regulations regarding the handling and disposal 
of materials and waste products associated with the normal 
operations of the facility or its maintenance that could impact 
public safety and the environment. 
i) 
Facilities Services will research and/or recommend special 
materials, devices, or services if it deems this appropriate and if 
desired by Contractor 
j) 
Facilities Services will make appropriate referrals as It deems 
necessary or appropriate for work outside the scope of baseline 
maintenance services 
k) 
Facilities Services will coordinate with Risk Management, 
Environmental Health, Sheriff's Office, local fire departments, 
and/or other regulatory and health and safety agencies as it 
deems necessary for issues related to building safety and 
inspection. 
B. 
Contractor is to: 
1. 
Designate a Maintenance Coordinator(s) to be the primary point of contact for 
Facilities Services Issues. 
2. 
Provide accurate and full details of services requested 
3. 
Report mechanical malfunctions or other needed repairs to Facilities Services 
promptly and complete necessary services request form(s). 
4. 
Encourage   all employees   to   be energy conscious. 
It’s good   for the 
environment as well as keeping your costs down. 
 
C. 
The parties acknowledge that County will be making an inventory and tagging all 
equipment and vehicles that are County owned or purchased using any Contract 
Funds. Contractor agrees to use best efforts to assist and cooperate with County in 
making its inventory of equipment and vehicles which are owned by County in whole 
or in part. As part of this effort to assist the County in making its inventory, Contractor 
shall maintain and provide to County, within thirty days of signing this Agreement, a 
current inventory of all equipment previously paid for with non-Contract Funds owned 
by Contractor or paid for in part with non- Contract Funds, used at the shelter and 
having a current fair market value of $1,000 or more. 
 
D. 
In event of termination or expiration of this Agreement, the County shall have the 
option to purchase any equipment or vehicle that has been paid for in part out of 
non-County Funds by paying to Contractor the depreciated value of Contractor's 
share of the equipment. In the event County opts not to purchase this equipment or 
vehicle, Contractor shall pay to County the depreciated value of its share of the 
equipment or vehicle. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
183 of 734

--- page 184 ---
17 
 
Section VII. Service Level Costs 
 
A. 
Invoicing/payment of Facilities Maintenance  Work 
1. 
As it relates to repairs/service which fall under the Contractor's responsibilities, 
Contractor will manage this work within the Contract Funds provided for under 
the Animal Control Services Agreement and provide open book accounting for all 
work contracted to outside vendors and provide copies of invoices and a 
quarterly report of all expenditures 'As it relates to repairs/service which fall under 
Facilities Services responsibilities, Facilities Services will send an invoice to the 
County Health system who in turn will send invoice to the Contractor of the 
amount and Contractor will pay within 30 calendar days from date of mailing. If 
invoice is not timely paid, County will deduct the past due amount from 
Contractor's next monthly payment. 
2. 
As it relates to repairs/service which fall under Facilities Services responsibilities 
but for which Facilities Services cannot respond in a timely manner and which 
are, as a result, managed by Contractor under the conditions provided herein, 
Contractor will pay the invoice using Contract Funds that it receives pursuant to 
the Animal Control Services Agreement, and promptly send a copy of such 
invoice to the County Animal Control Program Manager, Care of County Health, 
Public Health, Policy and Planning Division. 
 
B. 
Additional services; 
1. 
Costs associated with additional services as outlined in Section IV are based on 
the actual costs of each service as performed and are charged to the Contractor 
by invoice from Facilities Services. Each service will have a cost per unit time or 
occurrence. 
 
(i) 
For work performed by Facilities Services staff, labor rates are hourly 
based on classification and include overhead. Materials and supplies are 
billed at their actual cost. 
(ii) 
For work that must be contracted out, Facilities Services will request 
estimates from qualified and reputable companies and award the job to 
the low bidder. Contractor will be billed for the actual cost of the work. 
Facilities Services will send an invoice to the County Health system who 
in turn will send invoice to the Contractor of the amount and Contractor 
will pay within 30 calendar days. If invoice is not timely paid, County will 
deduct the past due amount from Contractor’s next monthly payment. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
184 of 734

--- page 185 ---
18 
 
Section VIII. Billing Procedures and Tracking Information 
A. 
Tracking Information 
1. 
Because a large percentage of work performed by Facilities Services is 
associated with building systems and structures, baseline services are tracked by 
building rather than by individual department. Facilities Services staff will record 
labor and material costs for each activity performed in a building, and these costs 
are then reflected in the report sent quarterly to the Contractor and the Animal 
Control Manager, San Mateo County Health. Contractor will be charged for 
services rendered on an ongoing basis and not based on a predetermined 
amount. 
2. 
The cost for additional services is tracked by work authorization. Prior to 
receiving a service, the Contractor will set aside a dollar amount equal to the 
estimated cost for that service. As services are rendered and costs are incurred, 
the invoices will be sent to County Health System Animal Control Manager and 
then to the Contractor. The cost will be taken out of animal control Contract 
Funds by the Contractor, who will pay the invoice within 30 calendar days or the 
County will deduct the overdue amount from Contractor's next payment. 
3. 
If there ls a dispute raised by Contractor, within three business days of receipt of 
the Invoice, regarding the accuracy of charges in an invoice, the parties shall use 
best efforts to resolve the dispute expeditiously. If while using best efforts, the 
parties have not resolved the dispute within 30 calendar days, Contractor shall 
not be in breach if the parties agree that they are working in good faith to resolve 
the dispute. 
 
B. 
Building Manuals, Drawings, Training  
In preparation for this, Contractor is to receive copies of all warranties, as-builts, operating and 
maintenance materials, and is to participate in all trainings provided by the Shelter's general 
contractor to DPW for the systems that Contractor will be maintaining. The intent is to have 
Contractor be informed as much as possible to more efficiently assist DPW in its role as well as 
manage its own responsibilities. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
185 of 734

--- page 186 ---
19 
 
THIS CONTRACT IS NOT VALID UNTIL SIGNED BY ALL PARTIES. NO WORK WILL COMMENCE 
UNTIL THIS DOCUMENT HAS BEEN SIGNED BY THE COUNTY PURCHASING AGENT OR 
AUTHORIZED DESIGNEE. 
For Peninsula Humane Society & SPCA: 
 
 
 
_____________________________ 
Contractor Signature 
_______________ 
Date 
Anthony Tansimore  
President 
 
 
 
 
 
For County: 
  
______________________________ 
Purchasing Agent Signature 
(Department Head or  
Authorized Designee)  
County of San Mateo  
______________ 
Date 
Cassius Lockett, PhD. 
Director of Public Health, Policy and Planning 
County of San Mateo 
______________________________ 
Purchasing Agent Signature 
(Department Head or  
Authorized Designee)  
County of San Mateo  
______________ 
Date 
Gary Behrens  
Facilities Services Manager 
County of San Mateo 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 36C4C10E-2F38-40CD-9CDE-B18E022DAB04
5/3/2021 | 9:31 AM PDT
5/3/2021 | 12:33 PM PDT
Kevin Sporer
Facilities Deputy Director
5/3/2021 | 2:17 PM PDT
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
186 of 734

--- page 187 ---
82 
Attachment L 
Peninsula Humane Society Holidays 
•
New Year’s Day
•
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
•
President’s Day
•
Easter
•
Memorial Day
•
July 4th
•
Labor Day
•
Veteran’s Day
•
Thanksgiving Day
•
Christmas Day
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
187 of 734

--- page 188 ---
83 
Attachment M 
County-Owned Radio Equipment 
•
4 - Motorola APX 7000 Handheld Radios
•
17 - Motorola APX 4000 Handheld Radios
•
1 - Motorola MCD 5000 Deskset
•
1 - Motorola APX 7500 Radio installed in vehicle
•
13 - Motorola APX 6500 Radios installed in vehicles
•
1 - Antenna mounted on roof of County Shelter
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6C491BB9-BC86-4B49-A708-70DFC750A9BD
188 of 734

--- page 189 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
             Page 1
Agreement No. __________________________
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO AND PETDATA, INC.
This Agreement is entered into this Fourth day of June, 2019, by and between the County of San Mateo, 
a political subdivision of the state of California, hereinafter called “County,” and PETDATA, INC., 
hereinafter called “Contractor.”
*
*
*
Whereas, pursuant to Section 31000 of the California Government Code, County may contract with 
independent contractors for the furnishing of such services to or for County or any Department thereof;
and
Whereas, it is necessary and desirable that Contractor be retained for the purpose of San Mateo County 
Health- Public Health, Policy & Planning.
Now, therefore, it is agreed by the parties to this Agreement as follows:
1.
Exhibits and Attachments
The following exhibits and attachments are attached to this Agreement and incorporated into this 
Agreement by this reference:
Exhibit A—Services
Exhibit B—Payments and Rates
Attachment I—§ 504 Compliance
Services to be performed by Contractor
In consideration of the payments set forth in this Agreement and in Exhibit B, Contractor shall perform 
services for County in accordance with the terms, conditions, and specifications set forth in this 
Agreement and in Exhibit A.
2.
Payments
In consideration of the services provided by Contractor in accordance with all terms, conditions, and 
specifications set forth in this Agreement and in Exhibit A, County shall make payment to Contractor 
based on the rates and in the manner specified in Exhibit B.  County reserves the right to withhold 
payment if County determines that the quantity or quality of the work performed is unacceptable.  In no 
event shall County’s total fiscal obligation under this Agreement exceed SIX HUNDRED-THIRTEEN 
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED AND FORTY FIVE DOLLARS ($613,945).  In the event that the County 
makes any advance payments, Contractor agrees to refund any amounts in excess of the amount owed 
by the County at the time of contract termination or expiration. Contractor is not entitled to payment for 
work not performed as required by this agreement.
3.
Term
Subject to compliance with all terms and conditions, the term of this Agreement shall be from July 1, 
2019, through June 30, 2022.
4.
Termination
This Agreement may be terminated by Contractor or by the Director of Public Health, Policy and Planning
or his/her designee at any time without a requirement of good cause upon thirty (30) days’ advance 
Resolution No. 076668
Attachment 2 - Agreement between County of San Mateo and PetData Inc.
189 of 734

--- page 190 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 2
written notice to the other party. Subject to availability of funding, Contractor shall be entitled to receive 
payment for work/services provided prior to termination of the Agreement.  Such payment shall be that 
prorated portion of the full payment determined by comparing the work/services actually completed to the 
work/services required by the Agreement.
County may terminate this Agreement or a portion of the services referenced in the Attachments and 
Exhibits based upon the unavailability of Federal, State, or County funds by providing written notice to 
Contractor as soon as is reasonably possible after County learns of said unavailability of outside funding.
County may terminate this Agreement for cause. In order to terminate for cause, County must first give 
Contractor notice of the alleged breach. Contractor shall have five business days after receipt of such 
notice to respond and a total of ten calendar days after receipt of such notice to cure the alleged breach. 
If Contractor fails to cure the breach within this period, County may immediately terminate this Agreement 
without further action. The option available in this paragraph is separate from the ability to terminate 
without cause with appropriate notice described above. In the event that County provides notice of an 
alleged breach pursuant to this section, County may, in extreme circumstances, immediately suspend 
performance of services and payment under this Agreement pending the resolution of the process 
described in this paragraph. County has sole discretion to determine what constitutes an extreme 
circumstance for purposes of this paragraph, and County shall use reasonable judgment in making that
determination.
5.
Contract Materials
At the end of this Agreement, or in the event of termination, all finished or unfinished documents, data, 
studies, maps, photographs, reports, and other written materials (collectively referred to as “contract 
materials”) prepared by Contractor under this Agreement shall become the property of County and shall 
be promptly delivered to County.  Upon termination, Contractor may make and retain a copy of such 
contract materials if permitted by law.  
6.
Relationship of Parties
Contractor agrees and understands that the work/services performed under this Agreement are 
performed as an independent contractor and not as an employee of County and that neither Contractor 
nor its employees acquire any of the rights, privileges, powers, or advantages of County employees.
7.
Hold Harmless
a.
General Hold Harmless
Contractor shall indemnify and save harmless County and its officers, agents, employees, and servants 
from all claims, suits, or actions of every name, kind, and description resulting from this Agreement, the 
performance of any work or services required of Contractor under this Agreement, or payments made 
pursuant to this Agreement brought for, or on account of, any of the following:  
(A) injuries to or death of any person, including Contractor or its employees/officers/agents; 
(B) damage to any property of any kind whatsoever and to whomsoever belonging; 
190 of 734

--- page 191 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 3
(C) any sanctions, penalties, or claims of damages resulting from Contractor’s failure to comply, if 
applicable, with the requirements set forth in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability 
Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and all Federal regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended; or 
(D) any other loss or cost, including but not limited to that caused by the concurrent active or 
passive negligence of County and/or its officers, agents, employees, or servants.  However, 
Contractor’s duty to indemnify and save harmless under this Section shall not apply to injuries or 
damage for which County has been found in a court of competent jurisdiction to be solely liable 
by reason of its own negligence or willful misconduct.
The duty of Contractor to indemnify and save harmless as set forth by this Section shall include the duty 
to defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the California Civil Code.
8.
Assignability and Subcontracting
Contractor shall not assign this Agreement or any portion of it to a third party or subcontract with a third 
party to provide services required by Contractor under this Agreement without the prior written consent of 
County.  Any such assignment or subcontract without County’s prior written consent shall give County the 
right to automatically and immediately terminate this Agreement without penalty or advance notice.
9.
Insurance
a.
General Requirements
Contractor shall not commence work or be required to commence work under this Agreement unless and 
until all insurance required under this Section has been obtained and such insurance has been approved 
by County’s Risk Management, and Contractor shall use diligence to obtain such insurance and to obtain 
such approval.  Contractor shall furnish County with certificates of insurance evidencing the required 
coverage, and there shall be a specific contractual liability endorsement extending Contractor’s coverage 
to include the contractual liability assumed by Contractor pursuant to this Agreement.  These certificates 
shall specify or be endorsed to provide that thirty (30) days’ notice must be given, in writing, to County of 
any pending change in the limits of liability or of any cancellation or modification of the policy.
b.
Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance
Contractor shall have in effect during the entire term of this Agreement workers’ compensation and 
employer’s liability insurance providing full statutory coverage.  In signing this Agreement, Contractor 
certifies, as required by Section 1861 of the California Labor Code, that (a) it is aware of the provisions of 
Section 3700 of the California Labor Code, which require every employer to be insured against liability for 
workers’ compensation or to undertake self-insurance in accordance with the provisions of the Labor 
Code, and (b) it will comply with such provisions before commencing the performance of work under this 
Agreement.
c.
Liability Insurance
Contractor shall take out and maintain during the term of this Agreement such bodily injury liability and 
property damage liability insurance as shall protect Contractor and all of its employees/officers/agents 
while performing work covered by this Agreement from any and all claims for damages for bodily injury, 
including accidental death, as well as any and all claims for property damage which may arise from 
Contractor’s operations under this Agreement, whether such operations be by Contractor, any 
subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by either of them, or an agent of either of them.  
191 of 734

--- page 192 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 4
Such insurance shall be combined single limit bodily injury and property damage for each occurrence and 
shall not be less than the amounts specified below:
(a) Comprehensive General Liability… 
$1,000,000 
County and its officers, agents, employees, and servants shall be named as additional insured on any 
such policies of insurance, which shall also contain a provision that (a) the insurance afforded thereby to 
County and its officers, agents, employees, and servants shall be primary insurance to the full limits of 
liability of the policy and (b) if the County or its officers, agents, employees, and servants have other 
insurance against the loss covered by such a policy, such other insurance shall be excess insurance only.
In the event of the breach of any provision of this Section, or in the event any notice is received which 
indicates any required insurance coverage will be diminished or canceled, County, at its option, may, 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, immediately declare a material 
breach of this Agreement and suspend all further work and payment pursuant to this Agreement.
10.
Compliance With Laws
All services to be performed by Contractor pursuant to this Agreement shall be performed in accordance 
with all applicable Federal, State, County, and municipal laws, ordinances, and regulations, including but 
not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the Federal 
Regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended (if applicable), the Business Associate requirements 
set forth in Attachment H (if attached), the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, and 
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in 
programs and activities receiving any Federal or County financial assistance.  Such services shall also be 
performed in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations, including but not limited to 
appropriate licensure, certification regulations, provisions pertaining to confidentiality of records, and 
applicable quality assurance regulations.  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement 
and any applicable State, Federal, County, or municipal law or regulation, the requirements of the 
applicable law or regulation will take precedence over the requirements set forth in this Agreement.  
Contractor will timely and accurately complete, sign, and submit all necessary documentation of 
compliance.
11.
Non-Discrimination and Other Requirements
a.
General Non-discrimination
No person shall be denied any services provided pursuant to this Agreement (except as limited by the 
scope of services) on the grounds of race, color, national origin, ancestry, age, disability (physical or 
mental), sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or domestic partner status, religion, political 
beliefs or affiliation, familial or parental status (including pregnancy), medical condition (cancer-related), 
military service, or genetic information.
b.
Equal Employment Opportunity
192 of 734

--- page 193 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 5
Contractor shall ensure equal employment opportunity based on objective standards of recruitment, 
classification, selection, promotion, compensation, performance evaluation, and management relations 
for all employees under this Agreement.  Contractor’s equal employment policies shall be made available 
to County upon request.
c.
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
Contractor shall comply with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, which provides 
that no otherwise qualified individual with a disability shall, solely by reason of a disability, be excluded 
from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in the performance of 
any services this Agreement.  This Section applies only to contractors who are providing services to 
members of the public under this Agreement.
d.
Compliance with County’s Equal Benefits Ordinance
Contractor shall comply with all laws relating to the provision of benefits to its employees and their 
spouses or domestic partners, including, but not limited to, such laws prohibiting discrimination in the 
provision of such benefits on the basis that the spouse or domestic partner of the Contractor’s employee 
is of the same or opposite sex as the employee.
e.
Discrimination Against Individuals with Disabilities
The nondiscrimination requirements of 41 C.F.R. 60-741.5(a) are incorporated into this Agreement as if 
fully set forth here, and Contractor and any subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 C.F.R.
60–741.5(a). This regulation prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals on the basis of disability
and requires affirmative action by covered prime contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance 
in employment qualified individuals with disabilities.
f.
History of Discrimination
Contractor certifies that no finding of discrimination has been issued in the past 365 days against 
Contractor by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the California Department of Fair 
Employment and Housing, or any other investigative entity. If any finding(s) of discrimination have been 
issued against Contractor within the past 365 days by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 
the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing, or other investigative entity, Contractor shall 
provide County with a written explanation of the outcome(s) or remedy for the discrimination prior to 
execution of this Agreement. Failure to comply with this Section shall constitute a material breach of this 
Agreement and subjects the Agreement to immediate termination at the sole option of the County.
g.
Reporting; Violation of Non-discrimination Provisions
Contractor shall report to the County Manager the filing in any court or with any administrative agency of 
any complaint or allegation of discrimination on any of the bases prohibited by this Section of the 
Agreement or the Section titled “Compliance with Laws”.  Such duty shall include reporting of the filing of 
any and all charges with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the California Department of 
Fair Employment and Housing, or any other entity charged with the investigation or adjudication of 
allegations covered by this subsection within 30 days of such filing, provided that within such 30 days 
such entity has not notified Contractor that such charges are dismissed or otherwise unfounded.  Such 
notification shall include a general description of the circumstances involved and a general description of 
the kind of discrimination alleged (for example, gender-, sexual orientation-, religion-, or race-based 
discrimination).
193 of 734

--- page 194 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 6
Violation of the non-discrimination provisions of this Agreement shall be considered a breach of this 
Agreement and subject the Contractor to penalties, to be determined by the County Manager, including 
but not limited to the following:
i.
termination of this Agreement;
ii.
disqualification of the Contractor from being considered for or being awarded a County contract 
for a period of up to 3 years;
iii.
liquidated damages of $2,500 per violation; and/or
iv.
imposition of other appropriate contractual and civil remedies and sanctions, as determined by 
the County Manager.
To effectuate the provisions of this Section, the County Manager shall have the authority to offset all or 
any portion of the amount described in this Section against amounts due to Contractor under this 
Agreement or any other agreement between Contractor and County.
h.
Compliance with Living Wage Ordinance
As required by Chapter 2.88 of the San Mateo County Ordinance Code, Contractor certifies all 
contractor(s) and subcontractor(s) obligated under this contract shall fully comply with the provisions of 
the County of San Mateo Living Wage Ordinance, including, but not limited to, paying all Covered 
Employees the current Living Wage and providing notice to all Covered Employees and Subcontractors 
as required under the Ordinance.
12.
Compliance with County Employee Jury Service Ordinance
Contractor shall comply with Chapter 2.85 of the County’s Ordinance Code, which states that Contractor 
shall have and adhere to a written policy providing that its employees, to the extent they are full-time 
employees and live in San Mateo County, shall receive from the Contractor, on an annual basis, no fewer 
than five days of regular pay for jury service in San Mateo County, with jury pay being provided only for 
each day of actual jury service.  The policy may provide that such employees deposit any fees received 
for such jury service with Contractor or that the Contractor may deduct from an employee’s regular pay 
the fees received for jury service in San Mateo County.  By signing this Agreement, Contractor certifies 
that it has and adheres to a policy consistent with Chapter 2.85.  For purposes of this Section, if 
Contractor has no employees in San Mateo County, it is sufficient for Contractor to provide the following 
written statement to County:  “For purposes of San Mateo County’s jury service ordinance, Contractor 
certifies that it has no full-time employees who live in San Mateo County.  To the extent that it hires any 
such employees during the term of its Agreement with San Mateo County, Contractor shall adopt a policy 
that complies with Chapter 2.85 of the County’s Ordinance Code.”  The requirements of Chapter 2.85 do 
not apply if this Agreement’s total value listed in the Section titled “Payments”, is less than one-hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000), but Contractor acknowledges that Chapter 2.85’s requirements will apply if 
this Agreement is amended such that its total value meets or exceeds that threshold amount.
13.
Retention of Records; Right to Monitor and Audit
(a) Contractor shall maintain all required records relating to services provided under this Agreement for 
three (3) years after County makes final payment and all other pending matters are closed, and 
Contractor shall be subject to the examination and/or audit by County, a Federal grantor agency, and the 
State of California.
194 of 734

--- page 195 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 7
(b) Contractor shall comply with all program and fiscal reporting requirements set forth by applicable
Federal, State, and local agencies and as required by County.
(c) Contractor agrees upon reasonable notice to provide to County, to any Federal or State department 
having monitoring or review authority, to County’s authorized representative, and/or to any of their 
respective audit agencies access to and the right to examine all records and documents necessary to 
determine compliance with relevant Federal, State, and local statutes, rules, and regulations, to 
determine compliance with this Agreement, and to evaluate the quality, appropriateness, and timeliness 
of services performed.
14.
Merger Clause; Amendments
This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Attachments attached to this Agreement and incorporated by 
reference, constitutes the sole Agreement of the parties to this Agreement and correctly states the rights, 
duties, and obligations of each party as of this document’s date.  In the event that any term, condition, 
provision, requirement, or specification set forth in the body of this Agreement conflicts with or is 
inconsistent with any term, condition, provision, requirement, or specification in any Exhibit and/or 
Attachment to this Agreement, the provisions of the body of the Agreement shall prevail.  Any prior 
agreement, promises, negotiations, or representations between the parties not expressly stated in this 
document are not binding.  All subsequent modifications or amendments shall be in writing and signed by
the parties.
15.
Controlling Law; Venue
The validity of this Agreement and of its terms, the rights and duties of the parties under this Agreement, 
the interpretation of this Agreement, the performance of this Agreement, and any other dispute of any 
nature arising out of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without 
regard to its choice of law or conflict of law rules.  Any dispute arising out of this Agreement shall be 
venued either in the San Mateo County Superior Court or in the United States District Court for the 
Northern District of California.
16.
Notices
Any notice, request, demand, or other communication required or permitted under this Agreement shall 
be deemed to be properly given when both:  (1) transmitted via facsimile to the telephone number listed 
below or transmitted via email to the email address listed below; and (2) sent to the physical address 
listed below by either being deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or deposited for 
overnight delivery, charges prepaid, with an established overnight courier that provides a tracking number 
showing confirmation of receipt.
In the case of County, to:
Name/Title:
Cassius Lockett, Director of Public Health, Policy and Planning
Address:
225-37th Avenue, Room 178  
San Mateo, CA  94403
Telephone:
650.573.2532
Facsimile:
650.573.2788
Email:
clockett@smcgov.org
195 of 734

--- page 196 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 8
In the case of Contractor, to:
Name/Title:
President, PetData, Inc.
Address:
8585 N Stemmons Fwy, Suite 1100-N
             
Dallas, TX 75247
Telephone:
214.821.3100 x515
Facsimile:
214.821.3106
Email:
crichey@petdata.com
17.
Electronic Signature
Both County and Contractor wish to permit this Agreement and future documents relating to this 
Agreement to be digitally signed in accordance with California law and County’s Electronic Signature 
Administrative Memo. Any party to this Agreement may revoke such agreement to permit electronic 
signatures at any time in relation to all future documents by providing notice pursuant to this Agreement.
18.
Payment of Permits/Licenses
Contractor bears responsibility to obtain any license, permit, or approval required from any agency for 
work/services to be performed under this Agreement at Contractor’s own expense prior to 
commencement of said work/services.  Failure to do so will result in forfeit of any right to compensation 
under this Agreement.
*
*
*
196 of 734

--- page 197 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
Page 9
6/4/19
Resolution No. 076668
197 of 734

--- page 198 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 10
Exhibit A
In consideration of the payments set forth in Exhibit B and with a focus on increasing licensing and 
vaccination compliance throughout the County of San Mateo, Contractor shall provide the following 
services:
A.  Management of the daily operations for animal licensing including:
1.  
Data Entry & Processing
a.
Process correspondence from pet owners including, but not limited to, issuing 
tags.
b.
Work in partnership with the County on an approved template to provide timely 
billing and renewal notices to pet owners, with at least one billing to both new and 
renewals to be printed on an 8.5x11 sheet of paper with a return envelope 
enclosed.  In addition, at least one of the notices will provide pet owner with the
date in which the late fee became due.
c.
Provide data entry of both new and renewal licenses and vaccination information.
d.
Implement procedures for verification of information submitted.
e.
Ensure complete, unduplicated, and accurate information.
f.
Process, collect, and provide receipts for animal licensing fees.
g.
Provide licensing and vaccination data for a weekly transfer of data from the 
Contractor’s database into County’s proprietary database.
h.
Provide customer service including communication with citizens, veterinarians, 
and designated County staff.
2.  
Veterinarians & Other Authorized Registrars
a.
Process license sales and vaccination reports from other sources (i.e. the local 
animal shelter, veterinary clinics, pet stores, etc.)
b.
Assist County staff to ensure reasonable quantities of on-site of basic supplies 
(reporting forms, citizen mailing envelopes, etc.) necessary to sell license tags 
and/or report information on citizens vaccinating their animals against rabies.
3.  
Animal License Tags
a.
Process and mail county-provided license tags within a maximum of 10 
business days, with a turnaround goal of 5 business days, after receipt of 
payment and completed information as required by the local ordinance.
b.
Issue county-provided replacement tags to pet owners whose license tags have 
been lost, stolen, or damaged.
4.  
Electronic Payments & Banking
a.
Provide the ability for pet owners to pay through the Contractor’s Merchant 
Service Provider.  
b.
Provide on-line customer service via the Contractor’s website to allow pet 
owners to make license payments or donations.
c.  
Deposit all receipts collected for licensing into a bank account set up solely for 
the purpose of managing County animal licensing funds.
i.
Make daily deposits and transmit verification of said deposits to designated 
County staff by the tenth of the following month.
ii.
Collect and report electronic and charge card payments and transmit 
verification of said deposits to designated County staff by the tenth of the 
following month.
iii.
Send all funds collected and deposited on behalf of the County via a 
monthly wire transfer by the tenth of the following month.
198 of 734

--- page 199 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 11
d. 
Accept license fees from licensees via the following forms of payment at a 
minimum:  check, money order, debit or ATM Card, or credit cards.
i.
Charges to Licensee for on-line payments:   
Cost Recovery Processing Fees in the amount of $2.00 per on-line 
transaction to be charged to licensee*.  Note:  Contractor shall use their 
own designated Merchant Service Provider to conduct all credit card 
transactions and shall retain the Cost Recovery Processing Fees 
collected. 
* More than one pet can be licensed per on-line transaction and pet owner 
will be charged a single fee for the on-line transaction.
5.  
Communication & Access
a.
Provide timely responses to and communication with citizens, County 
designees, and Animal Control and Licensing Program representatives 
including Animal Control Officers.
b.
Provide a customized San Mateo County toll-free number and answering 
service.
c.
Provide 24/7 access to Contractor’s database by County, Emergency Dispatch, 
and any other authorized Division personnel, including login.
d.
Communicate to pet owners on the status of their pet’s license status including 
annual billing.
6.  
Reporting 
a.  
Provide monthly report of animals licensed to the County.
b.  
Provide statistical reports as requested by the County.
c.     Provide monthly report of all veterinarians who are delinquent in submitting their 
monthly vaccination without license (VWL) reports.
d.     Provide monthly lists of delinquent licenses upon requested by County.
e.     Provide customized reports as requested by County.
f.      Provide public record information as requested by County.
7.        Additional Services
a.
Work in partnership with County staff:
i.
To ensure all licensing information, both complete and incomplete records, 
are imported into Contractor’s database on a weekly basis.
ii.
To develop a process that will allow/entice veterinarians to sell licenses at 
their County location.
B.  
Contractor agrees that the animal licensing information belongs to the County and will never 
sell, transfer, or release personal data to a third party.
C.  
With the exception of the license tags and/or customized inserts, Contractor agrees to cover 
the cost of all animal licensing supplies needed for daily operation.
D.  
Contractor agrees to comply with California state and local laws governing animal licensing.
E.  
Contractor will back up all databases twice during the working day.
F.          During regular business hours, Contractor will assist with countywide efforts to reunite pets 
with their owners during a natural disaster.
County agrees to provide the following to Contractor:
A.  
Access to County’s animal control database to allow import of data into Contractor’s 
database.
199 of 734

--- page 200 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 12
B.  
Licensing tags and customized inserts to Contractor’s on-site location for disbursement.
C.
Any licensing fees collected by County: such fees will be retained by County, and a record of 
fees collected along with any supporting documents will be forwarded to the Contractor for 
processing no later than the 5th calendar day of the following month.
D. 
Any licensing fees collected by Contractors of the County: such fees and any supporting 
documents will be forwarded to the Contractor for processing with the exception of cash.    
Cash will be deposited into County’s bank account directly by County staff.
200 of 734

--- page 201 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 13
Exhibit B
In consideration of the services provided by Contractor described in Exhibit A and subject to the terms of 
the Agreement, County shall pay Contractor based on the following fee schedule and terms:
A.  
Fixed Fees:
One-year license:    $4.28 per license
Multi-year license:   $4.28 for the first year and $2.00 for each additional year
Late fees collected: $2.50 collection service fee for each license
Replacement tags:  $4.28 per tag
Service animals (e.g. seeing-eye dogs, hearing dogs, etc.):  No fee for any license or tag 
issued
Fixed fees shall be payable to Contractor for all licenses processed during the term of this 
Agreement, regardless of whether they are processed by Contractor, County personnel, or a 
County contractor.
Fixed fees shall not be charged until the license is issued.  Data entry of rabies vaccination 
certificates and incomplete licenses, which may or may not result in a license, are included at 
no extra charge.
An agreed upon method to follow-up with pet owners who did not respond to a prior notice is 
included at no additional charge.
B.  
In any event, the maximum amount the County shall be obligated to pay for services 
rendered under this Agreement shall not exceed SIX HUNDRED-THIRTEEN THOUSAND 
NINE HUNDRED AND FORTY FIVE DOLLARS ($613,945.00) (Included are bank fees)for 
the Agreement term.
C.         Payment by County to Contractor shall be monthly and made be made electronically by the 
County should the required paperwork be completely by Contractor.  Contractor shall bill 
County on or before the tenth (10th) working day of each month for the prior month.  The 
invoice shall include a summary of services and charges for the month of service.  In 
addition, Contractor shall provide back-up to the invoice.  Such back-up shall be in the form 
of a monthly report of the animals licensed. 
Contractor will provide available bank statements within five business days if requested by 
County.
D.
Additional Service Fees
Contractor shall invoice County for any bank deposit and supply fees outside the scope of 
this Agreement.
County will reimburse Contractor for bank fees upon verification of such, including:
1.         Actual bank fees charged to Contractor as a result of Contractor maintaining the 
bank account for the purpose of providing services outlined in this contract. This 
amount, in and of itself, is included in the total contract amount and will not exceed 
SEVEN THOUSAND AND FIFTY DOLLARS ($7,050.00) (included in the contracted 
costs) without prior authorization from designated County staff.
2.         Non-sufficient fee charge charged to Contractor.  Contractor will make every attempt 
to collect bank fees from pet owners and will reimburse County upon collection of 
said fee.
201 of 734

--- page 202 ---
Template Version November 16, 2016
                                                                                                                                                                Page 14
Contractor shall invoice County on a monthly basis for the actual cost of the bank account 
maintained for the purpose of this contract.
E. 
At the discretion of the Director of Public Health, Policy & Planning or designee, an annual 
conference call may be scheduled between the Contractor and County.  Contractor’s time 
and/or related expenses are not billable.
F.         At the discretion of the Director of Public Health, Policy & Planning or designee, a meeting at 
the County’s location may be scheduled between the Contractor and County once during the 
term of this contract.  Contractor’s travel time to and from the County and/or related 
expenses are not billable.
G.
If County or Contractor finds that performance is inadequate, at the County’s discretion, a 
meeting may be called to discuss the causes for the performance problem, and this 
Agreement may be renegotiated, allowed to continue to end of term, or terminated pursuant 
to Paragraph 4 of this Agreement.  Any unspent monies due to performance failure may 
reduce the following year’s agreement, if any.
H.
In the event this Agreement is terminated prior to June 30, 2022, Contractor shall be paid for 
services already provided pursuant to this Agreement.
I.           In the event this Agreement is extended or renewed after June 30, 2022 and the County 
does not issue a Request for Proposal, Contractor agrees to continue the fixed fees as 
shown below:
One-year license:    $4.28 per license
Multi-year license:   $4.28 for the first year and $2.00 for each additional year
Late fees collected: $2.50 collection service fee for each license
Replacement tags:  $4.28 per tag
Service animals (e.g. seeing-eye dogs, hearing dogs, etc.):  No fee for any license or tag 
issued
202 of 734

--- page 203 ---
Michael P. Callagy 
County Manager/ 
Clerk of the Board 
County Government Center 
400 County Center, 1st Floor 
Redwood City, CA 94063 
650-363-4121 T
650-363-1916 F
www.smcgov.org
July 7, 2020 
Robert Barron, Finance Director 
91 Ashfield Road 
Atherton, CA 94027 
Re: 
Notice of Construction Costs for the Animal Care Shelter Facility 
Dear Robert, 
On or about September 9, 2014, the municipalities within San Mateo County entered into an 
agreement (“the Agreement”) to share the construction costs of a new animal care shelter 
facility.  The agreement provides that the County of San Mateo will advance the funds for 
construction to be repaid by the municipalities according to their share, through a 30-year, 
interest-free lease agreement.   
On March 6, 2020, construction of the new animal shelter building was completed, and 
certificate of occupancy was issued.  The old shelter building was demolished shortly 
thereafter, and final project completion (with exception of photovoltaic installment) is slated 
for approximately July 30, 2020.  Final project costs are reasonably determinable and 
anticipated to be approximately $28,300,000.  The municipalities’ final shared responsibility 
is anticipated to be $25,700,000 or $856,758 annually.  The County will not seek 
reimbursement for $2,600,000 in project costs comprised of an upgraded heating ventilation 
air conditioning ($600,000), a photovoltaic system ($1,200,000), miscellaneous site 
improvements related to landscaping, fencing, and parking ($530,000), and relocation of a 
City of Burlingame water line ($270,000).   
The final column of Attachment B to this letter sets forth each municipalities’ final annual 
lease amount, as calculated in the manner proscribed by the Agreement.  Final costs exceed 
the June 2018 estimate by approximately 3%. This marginal increase is a result of escalated 
regional construction costs and unforeseen circumstances encountered during construction, 
including requirements for ongoing air-quality monitoring, soil remediation and treatment, 
fire safety system modifications, PG&E delays, and necessary and reasonable end-user 
logistical design modifications.  The County of San Mateo has worked diligently and 
successfully to minimize these additional costs while delivering a high-quality facility that will 
stand the test of time. 
Attachment 3 - Memorandum of Agreement Regarding Funding For Construction Of An Animal Care Shelter
203 of 734

--- page 204 ---
Though we had to cancel the ribbon-cutting for the facility due to the pandemic, we look 
forward to holding, at the appropriate time, a reception to celebrate our successful regional 
collaboration.  In lieu of an in-person tour, we’ve enclosed photographs of the exterior of the 
new facility and site.  Pursuant to paragraph 3 of the Agreement, annual payments to County 
to reimburse for costs of construction shall become due on the initial July 1st after a 
certificate of occupancy is issued for the new shelter, and each subsequent July 1st for the 
next 29 years thereafter.  Please find enclosed the invoice and payment instructions for the 
initial lease payment for your municipality.  
 
Should you have any project questions, please contact Director Adam Ely of the Project 
Development Unit at 650.722.8112.   Should you have any payment questions, please contact 
Robert Manchia at 650.363.4597. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Mike Callagy 
San Mateo County, County Manager 
 
Enclosures:   Resolution 073369, Final Attachment B, Invoice July 2020
 
204 of 734

--- page 205 ---
ATTACHMENT A 
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
REGARDING FUNDING FOR CONSTRUCTION OF AN ANIMAL CARE SHELTER ON 
AIRPORT BOULEVARD IN SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, AMONG THE CITIES OF 
ATHERTON, BELMONT, BRISBANE, BURLINGAME, COLMA, DALY CITY, EAST 
PALO ALTO, FOSTER CITY, HALF MOON BAY, HILLSBOROUGH, MENLO PARK, 
MILLBRAE, PACIFICA, PORTOLA VALLEY, REDWOOD CITY, SAN BRUNO, SAN 
CARLOS, SAN MATEO, SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, AND WOODSIDE AND THE 
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO 
 
THIS MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT, dated for reference as of  September 9, 2014, (the 
“Agreement”), is by and among the COUNTY OF SAN MATEO (the “County”), and the cities 
of ATHERTON, BELMONT, BRISBANE, BURLINGAME, COLMA, DALY CITY, EAST 
PALO ALTO, FOSTER CITY, HALF MOON BAY, HILLSBOROUGH, MENLO PARK, 
MILLBRAE, PACIFICA, PORTOLA VALLEY, REDWOOD CITY, SAN BRUNO, SAN 
CARLOS, SAN MATEO, SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, AND WOODSIDE (each, a “City,” and 
collectively, the “Cities,” and, together with the County, the “Parties”).   
RECITALS 
The County and the Cities are parties to an Agreement for Animal Control Services dated as of 
April 26, 2011, pursuant to which the County provides animal control services in the 
unincorporated area of the County, as well as in the jurisdictional boundaries of the twenty Cities 
within the County, listed above, each of which is a party to the Agreement for Animal Control 
Services.   
As set forth in the Agreement for Animal Control Services, the Peninsula Humane Society & 
SPCA (“PHS”) presently serves as the County Contractor for the provision of certain animal 
control services to the County and the Cities.  These services and the terms of PHS’ performance 
of them are contained in an Animal Control Services Agreement between the County and PHS 
dated as of April 26, 2011. 
In conjunction with and pursuant to the Animal Control Services Agreement, the County has 
leased to the PHS the land at 12 Airport Boulevard, in San Mateo, California, on which an 
Animal Care Shelter facility owned and operated by PHS is presently located. 
The Parties agree that, owing to the obsolescence of the existing Animal Care Shelter facility, it 
is now necessary to construct a new facility and the Parties enter into this Agreement to set forth 
205 of 734

--- page 206 ---
the allocation of, and process for payment of, the construction cost for the new Animal Care 
Shelter facility among the Parties. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows: 
1.  Construction Cost Allocation Methodology:  The Parties agree that construction costs for the 
new Animal Care Shelter facility shall be allocated among the Parties based on the formula set 
forth in Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is incorporated herein by reference.  This formula 
reflects each Party’s actual use of the existing Animal Care Shelter facility in 2009, 2010, and 
2011 as a percentage of all Parties’ total use of the facility, as well as each Party’s total 
population as of 2010, as a percentage of the County’s total population as of that date.  The 
formula is weighted 80% to a City’s average facility use over the three years preceding the year 
in question and 20% to population.   The Parties agree that each year, the County shall 
recalculate three year average facility usage for each City and that Exhibit A (and each Party’s 
prospective Lease Payment obligations, as described in Section 3 of this Agreement) shall be 
amended to reflect such recalculations.  The Parties further agree that the County shall, upon 
request of a City, promptly provide the requesting City with copies of the data and documents 
used to calculate each City’s facilities usage. 
2.  County Advancing Construction Costs:  The Parties agree that the County shall advance, on 
an interest free basis, all funds required to pay the construction costs for the new Animal Care 
Shelter facility.  For purposes of this Agreement, “construction costs” include all expenses for 
architectural and inspector services, project management service, environmental review, 
planning and building fees and costs, and actual contractor construction services.  The Parties 
understand and agree that construction costs for the Animal Care Shelter facility are anticipated 
at this time to be twenty million two hundred thousand dollars ($20,200,000).  The Parties will 
be provided with further information regarding the construction costs for the Animal Care 
Shelter facility within a reasonable period of time after such information becomes available or 
prior to the Certificate of Occupancy being issued.  The Parties agree that if the County receives 
information indicating that the construction costs for the Animal Care Shelter facility will exceed 
$20,200,000 by 10% or more, the County shall provide notice to each City of the revised 
estimated construction costs within a reasonable period of time before such additional 
construction costs are incurred.  The Parties further agree that the County shall, upon request of a 
City, promptly confer with such City or Cities regarding the additional construction costs and 
any means by which such additional construction costs may be minimized. 
3.  Parties’ Payment of Proportional Share of Construction Costs:  Each Party agrees that, during 
the term of this Agreement for as long as the new Animal Care Shelter facility is occupied and 
used for animal care shelter purposes, the Party shall pay the County an annual Lease Payment 
beginning on the first July 1st after a certificate of occupancy is issued for the new Animal Care 
Shelter facility, and on each subsequent July 1st for the next twenty nine years thereafter.  Each 
Party’s Lease Payment shall be equal to the Party’s  proportional share of the construction cost of 
the new Animal Care Shelter facility amortized on a straight line basis over thirty years, as set 
206 of 734

--- page 207 ---
forth in Exhibit A to this Agreement, as Exhibit A may be amended from time to time as 
provided in Section 1 of this Agreement.  Each Party’s obligation to make a Lease Payment shall 
remain in place only for so long as the Party is a signatory to the Agreement for Animal Control 
Services, or any successor agreement addressing materially the same subject matter. In the event 
that a Party terminates its participation in this Agreement pursuant to Section 4 of this 
Agreement, the County shall, upon receiving notice of that Party’s termination, recalculate the 
remaining Parties’ Lease Payment obligations pursuant to the Construction Cost Allocation 
Methodology set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement.  The County shall promptly provide all 
remaining Parties with notice of their recalculated Lease Payment obligations.  Each remaining 
Party shall thereafter have the option to either (a) pay the recalculated increased annual Lease 
Payments during the remaining term of the Agreement; or (b) request that the County allow the 
remaining Party a period of up to 5 years after the end of the thirty year period set forth in this 
Section 3 of the Agreement to pay the County the remaining Party’s additional allocated share of 
construction costs for the Animal Care Facility attributable to the departure of the terminating 
Party.   
4.  Term and Termination:  Except as set forth above, this Agreement shall be effective for the 
period from September 9, 2014 until each Party has made the last payment required under 
Section 3 of this Agreement.  Except as set forth in Section 3 of the Agreement (i.e., by 
terminating participation in the Agreement for Animal Control Services), no Party may terminate 
this Agreement during its term. A Party terminating its participation in this Agreement shall do 
so effective as of December 31 of a year during the term of this Agreement and shall provide 
each other Party to this Agreement with at least one full year’s prior written notice of the Party’s 
intent to terminate its participation in the Agreement.   
5.  Amendments/Entire Agreement:  Amendments to this Agreement must be in writing and 
approved by the governing body of each Party.  This is the entire agreement among the parties 
with respect to the construction of the new Animal Care Shelter facility and it supersedes any 
prior written or oral agreements with respect to the subject. 
6.  Hold Harmless:  Each City shall hold harmless, indemnify, and defend County, its officers, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, suits, or actions of every kind 
brought for or on account of injuries to or death of any person or damage to any property of any 
kind whatsoever and to whomsoever belonging which arise out of the performance or 
nonperformance of City’s covenants and obligations under this Agreement and which result from 
the actively negligent or wrongful acts of City or its officers, employees, or agents. 
County shall hold harmless, indemnify, and defend each City, its officers, employees, and agents 
from and against any and all claims, suits, or actions of every kind brought for or on account of 
injuries to or death of any person or damage to any property of any kind whatsoever and to 
whomsoever belonging which arise out of the performance or nonperformance of County’s  
covenants and obligations under this Agreement and which result from the actively negligent or 
wrongful acts of County or its officers, employees, or agents.   
207 of 734

--- page 208 ---
This provision requiring County to hold harmless, indemnify, and defend each City shall
expressly not apply to claims, losses, liabilities, or damages arising from actions or omissions,
negligent or otherwise, of PHS or any other independent contractor providing animal control-
related services pursuant to a contract with the County. Claims related to the planning and/or
construction of the new Animal Care Shelter facility are not claims, losses, liabilities, or
damages related to “animal control-related services” within the meaning of this Agreement.

In the event of concurrent negligence of the County, its officers, or employees, and any City, its
officers and employees, then the liability for any and all claims for injuries or damages to
persons and/or property or any other loss or cost which arises out of the terms, conditions,
covenants or responsibilities of this Agreement shall be apportioned in any dispute or litigation
according to the California theory of comparative negligence.

7. Assignability: Except as otherwise expressly provided for herein, no Party shall assign any of
its obligations or rights hereunder without the consent of all other Parties.

8. Notices: Any notices required to be given pursuant to this Agreement shall be given in
writing and shall be mailed to all Parties to the Agreement, as follows:

To City:
To County:

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Board of Supervisors of the COUNTY OF SAN MATEO has
authorized and directed the President of the Board of Supervisors to execute this Agreement for
and on behalf of the County, and the Cities of ATHERTON, BELMONT, BRISBANE,
BURLINGAME, COLMA, DALY CITY, EAST PALO ALTO, FOSTER CITY, HALF MOON
BAY, HILLSBOROUGH, MENLO PARK, MILLBRAE, PACIFICA, PORTOLA VALLEY,
REDWOOD CITY, SAN BRUNO, SAN CARLOS, SAN MATEO, SOUTH SAN
FRANCISCO, AND WOODSIDE have caused this Agreement to be subscribed by each of their
duly authorized officers and attested by their Clerks.

Dated: September 9, 2014 COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

ee gh EE
a —_—
_ ea

Clerk of the Board

Resolution #073369

208 of 734


--- page 209 ---
ATTACHMENT B
Methodology = Based on an 3-yr avg of shelter use (80%} and % of population (20%)
ANIMAL CONTROL COSTS
PROPOSED COST DISTRIBUTION-ESTIMATED LEASE AMOUNTS TO RECOUP CONSTRUCTION COSTS
Overall Total
Overall Total
$26,600,000
$28,300,000
CITY
Shelter Use 
Shelter Use 
Shelter Use 
$20,200,000
$24,800,000
$25,700,000
$856,758
Yr 1 2009 Actual 
Yr 2 2010 Actual 
Yr 3 2011 Actual 
3 YR AVG of 
Sheleter Use
POPULATION
% of Total 
EST ANNUAL LEASE 
AMT    (Sept. 2014)
EST ANNUAL LEASE 
AMT       (July 2018)
EST FINAL 
ANNUAL LEASE 
AMT            
(July 2020)
Atherton
1.12%
1.00%
0.36%
0.83%
6,914
1.0%
$5,749
$7,059
$7,173
Belmont
3.26%
3.54%
2.65%
3.15%
25,835
3.6%
$21 811
$26,780
$27,212
Brisbane
0.99%
0.99%
0.71%
0.90%
4,282
0.6%
$5,633
$6,916
$7,028
Burlingame
3.51%
3.48%
320%
3.40%
28,806
4.0%
$23,696
$29,095
$29,565
Colma
0.61%
0.98%
0.60%
0.73%
1,792
2.0%
$4,268
$5,241
$5,325
Dalv Citv
8.52%
9.57%
10.16%
9.42%
101,123
14.1%
$69,679
$85,556
$86,936
East Palo Alto
6.61%
6.75%
8.44%
7.27%
28,155
3.9%
$44,420
$54,542
$55,422
Foster City
2.82%
2.39%
1.93%
2.38%
30,567
4.3%
$18,550
$22,776
$23,144
Half Moon Bay
5.21%
5.04%
2.47%
4%
11,324
1.6%
$24,962
$30,650
$31,144
Hillsborough
1.59%
129%
1.14%
1.34%
10,825
1.5%
$9,247
$11,354
$11,537
Menlo Park
4.90%
4.95%
4.50%
4.78%
32,026
4.5%
$31,769
$39,008
$39,637
Millbrae
1.90%
1.99%
1.98%
1.96%
21,532
3.0%
$14,576
$17,897
$18,186
Pacifica
5.72%
6.38%
4.78%
5.63%
37,234
52.0%
$37,288
$45,784
$46,523
Portola Valley
0.90%
0.76%
0.16%
0.61%
4,353
0.6%
$4,084
$5,014
$5,095
Redwood City
12.91%
13.24%
13.25%
13.13%
76,815
10.7%
$85,143
$104,543
$106,229
San Bruno
5.23%
5.19%
6.86%
5.76%
41,114
5.7%
$38,734
$47,559
$48,326
San Carlos
3.35%
3.45%
3.00%
3.27%
28,406
4.0%
$22,921
$28,143
$28,597
San Mateo
15.82%
14.67%
17.84%
16.11%
97,207
13.5%
$105,000
$128,924
$131,004
S. San Francisco
9.08%
9.34%
11.99%
10.14%
63,632
8.9%
$66,530
$81,689
$83,007
Woodside
4.41%
1.27%
1.07%
2.25%
5,287
0.7%
$13,111
$16,098
$16,358
County
1.57%
3.73%
2.92%
2.74%
61,222
8.5%
$26,235
$32,213
$32,732
HVAC +Solar Costs*
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
$1,800,000
$1,800,000
Burligame Waterline
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
$270,000
Misc. Site Improvements 
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
$530,000
Total
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
718,451
100.00%
$673,405
$826,843
$840,179
* HVAC,  Solar, and Miscellaneous site improvement costs of $2.6 million removed from cities portion of costs and paid for by County of San Mateo.  Overall total project cost is $28.3 million.
Resolution #073369
Calendar Year
209 of 734

--- page 210 ---
ESTIMATE - FY 2021-22 ANIMAL CONTROL COSTS
Current Year Control 
rev less control & 
licensing exp less 
licensing rev
CY 2020 licensing 
revenue
TOTAL OF AC&L Rev 
less exp
$6,292,600
$1,007,063
$7,299,663
CITY
Service Level
Service Level
Field
Animals
Service Level
Final
Estimated
CY 2020 Licensing Revenue
Adjusted
Percentage
Percentage
Services
Received
Percentage
2020-21
2020-21
2021-22
Percent
Percent
Distribution
City Cost
City Cost
Yr 2 CY 2018 
Actual
Yr 3 CY 2019 
Actual
CY2020
CY2020
Yr 3 CY 2020 
Actual
Before subtracting license 
revenue
% of total revenue
Licensing Revenue 
Collected
Atherton
1.04%
1.07%
1.37%
0.77%
1.02%
1.04%
$76,065
1.26%
$12,309
$63,756
Belmont
3.09%
2.65%
3.30%
2.66%
2.92%
2.89%
$210,623
4.45%
$43,471
$167,152
Brisbane
0.74%
0.88%
0.72%
0.30%
0.48%
0.70%
$50,881
0.71%
$6,936
$43,945
Burlingame
3.76%
3.41%
4.09%
4.55%
4.36%
3.84%
$280,583
4.59%
$44,838
$235,745
Colma
0.52%
0.40%
0.71%
0.43%
0.54%
0.49%
$35,741
0.19%
$1,856
$33,885
Daly City
10.21%
9.92%
8.49%
11.12%
10.04%
10.06%
$734,259
7.67%
$74,926
$659,333
East Palo Alto
8.06%
8.04%
5.16%
9.86%
7.94%
8.01%
$584,823
0.91%
$8,890
$575,933
Foster City
3.94%
2.49%
3.50%
2.78%
3.07%
3.17%
$231,255
3.75%
$36,633
$194,622
Half Moon Bay
1.87%
1.94%
2.49%
2.15%
2.29%
2.03%
$148,250
2.83%
$27,645
$120,605
Hillsborough
1.52%
1.83%
2.17%
1.58%
1.82%
1.72%
$125,834
2.58%
$25,203
$100,631
Menlo Park
4.26%
5.10%
4.75%
4.85%
4.81%
4.72%
$344,689
3.54%
$34,581
$310,108
Millbrae
2.16%
2.29%
1.78%
2.31%
2.09%
2.18%
$159,282
2.66%
$25,985
$133,297
Pacifica
4.86%
6.06%
5.70%
4.18%
4.80%
5.24%
$382,500
7.70%
$75,219
$307,281
Portola Valley
0.41%
0.41%
0.89%
0.37%
0.58%
0.47%
$34,039
1.32%
$12,895
$21,144
Redwood City
12.65%
13.92%
11.58%
12.85%
12.33%
12.97%
$946,497
13.23%
$129,240
$817,257
San Bruno
6.07%
5.80%
4.47%
5.80%
5.26%
5.71%
$416,654
5.35%
$52,263
$364,391
San Carlos
3.11%
2.90%
3.74%
2.29%
2.89%
2.97%
$216,465
5.31%
$51,872
$164,593
San Mateo
14.59%
13.71%
12.56%
14.23%
13.55%
13.95%
$1,018,096
15.01%
$146,629
$871,467
S. San Francisco
10.51%
9.75%
8.94%
10.78%
10.02%
10.09%
$736,806
7.62%
$74,438
$662,368
Woodside
1.23%
1.02%
1.59%
1.12%
1.31%
1.18%
$86,482
1.37%
$13,383
$73,099
County
5.44%
6.41%
11.99%
5.01%
7.87%
6.57%
$479,838
7.95%
$77,661
$402,177
Total
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
$7,299,662
100.00%
$976,872
$6,322,790
ESTIMATE - FY 2021-22 Animal Control Costs -                                                                  
calculating Field @ 41% & Shelter @ 59% over 3 years and using past calendar year license revenue per city
 as of 4/12/2021
&nbsp;
210 of&nbsp;734
Attachment 2

--- page 211 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4640
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Police Department Patrol Vehicles – Purchase and Build-out Contracts
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing process and approve the purchase contract with National Auto 
Fleet Group for the purchase of nine (9) 2021 Ford Hybrid Police Interceptor Utility vehicles in the amount of $475,534.44 
and to adopt the findings for an alternative bidding process and approve an agreement with Priority 1 Public Safety for the 
purchase and installation of public safety equipment in the amount of $144,336.33; establish a contingency reserve in the 
amount of $62,000.00; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the purchase contract and agreement for 
services in substantially the form presented and issue any change orders as allowed by the agreements and within the 
contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
Replacement of police vehicles is imperative to provide service to the community and safe transportation during the 
execution of police duties. The vehicle standard for most law enforcement is the Ford Police Interceptor Utility. Ford is 
producing a hybrid model, engineered to be pursuit rated, that the Police Department would like to incorporate into its 
fleet. Therefore, the City is requesting to purchase nine (9) hybrid models to replace nine existing vehicles that are due for 
replacement. 
Staff utilized Sourcewell pricing through National Auto Fleet Group for the purchase of the vehicles. Sourcewell conducted 
competitive bidding processes to select vendors and establish pricing on vehicles and equipment. The City can rely on the 
competitive bids obtained by Sourcewell in lieu of obtaining independent bids. In accordance with Municipal Code Section 
3.60.070(h)(3), staff requests that City Council approve the alternative purchasing procedure of using Sourcewell pricing as 
being in the best interest of the City, and staff recommends purchase of the vehicles through Sourcewell from National 
Auto Fleet Group, a Sourcewell member. 
These police vehicles also require the purchase and installation of public safety equipment after delivery. Per Municipal 
Code 3.60.050(b) the purchase and installation of public safety equipment is exempt when calling for bids is impracticable, 
unavailing, or impossible. The build-out of police vehicles is highly specialized and utilizing one vendor ensures vehicle 
standardization in installations and services. Priority 1 is a local vendor, has previously performed build-outs of police 
vehicles for the City, and warranties their work for the life of the vehicle. 
The purchase price of nine (9) 2021 Ford Hybrid Police Interceptor Utility vehicles, including the installation of public safety 
equipment after delivery, is as follows:
211 of 734

--- page 212 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
National Auto Fleet Group – Nine (9) Hybrid Patrol Vehicles: 
$475,534.44 
Priority 1 – Patrol Vehicle Build Out:                                        
$144,336.33 
                                                                       Total Authorization: 
$619,870.77
Staff recommends Council authorize the purchase and build out of the nine (9) new hybrid police vehicles.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funding is available in the Vehicle Replacement Fund (Fund 81).
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Purchase Contract – National Auto Fleet Group
Att 3 – Agreement – Priority 1
STAFF CONTACT
Cathy Huffington, Administrative Technician
huffington@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7366
Eric Bell, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
ebell@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7328
212 of 734

--- page 213 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2020)
APPROVING CONTRACT FOR THE PURCHASE OF NINE (9) HYBRID POLICE INTERCEPTOR UTILITY VEHICES 
AND AUTHORIZING THE USE OF AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR THE PURCHASE; AND 
APPROVING AN AGREEMENT WITH PRIORITY 1 PUBLIC SAFETY, INC FOR THE PURCHASE AND 
INSTALLATION OF PUBLIC SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
WHEREAS, the City Council is being asked to award a contract for the purchase of nine (9) Police 
Interceptor Utility vehicles in the amount of $ 475,534.44; and authorize an agreement for the purchase and 
installation of public safety equipment for these nine (9) vehicles in the amount of $144.336.33; and
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.030 generally requires competitive bidding for 
contacts of $100,000 or more; and 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) authorizes the City Council to approve 
alternative purchasing procedures when it is in the best interest of the City; and
 
WHEREAS, use of Sourcewell – NJPA Contract #120716-NAF offers best pricing for the Police Interceptor 
Utility vehicles from National Auto Fleet Group; and 
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends approval of the alternative purchasing 
procedure of using a Sourcewell quote and the purchase of nine Police Interceptor Utility vehicles without 
standard competitive bid practice:
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b) authorizes City Council to exempt the 
competitive bidding process where calling for bids is impracticable, unavailing or impossible and the awarding 
authority based on the amount of the purchase/ contract sets forth findings designating the reasons; and
WHEREAS, use of Priority 1 offers the specifications and requirements of the City for public safety 
equipment and installation; and
WHEREAS, the build-out of the nine Police Interceptor Utility vehicles with the specification and 
capabilities meet the requirements of the City; and
WHEREAS, based on these circumstances, staff recommends the purchase and installation of nine Police 
Interceptor Utility vehicles without standard competitive bid practice because it is in the best interest of the 
City; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with CEQA guidelines section 15378 (b)(5), this equipment purchase is an 
administrative activity that will not impact the environment and is therefore not a project subject to CEQA;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
1.
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), use of alternative purchasing procedures 
of using a quote from Sourcewell for the purchase of nine Police Interceptor Utility vehicles from 
National Auto Fleet Group is in the City’s best interest for these reasons.
213 of 734

--- page 214 ---
a.
The City has obtained best pricing for the nine (9) Ford Police Interceptor Utility vehicle with 
Sourcewell – NJPA Contract #120716-NAF pricing from National Auto Fleet Group.
b.
Sourcewell (formally NJPA) conducted competitive bidding processes to select vendors and 
establish pricing on vehicles and equipment.
2.
The procedure utilized by staff of obtaining Sourcewell – NJPA Contract #120716-NAF with National 
Auto Fleet Group pricing for nine Ford Police Interceptor vehicles is approved in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3)
3.
In accordance with Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b) the purchase and installation of public safety 
equipment is exempt where calling for bids is impracticable, unavailing or impossible because the 
build-out of police vehicles is highly specialized and utilizing one vendor ensures vehicle 
standardization in installations and services.
214 of 734

--- page 215 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 1 of 6 
Rev 9/17 
PURCHASE CONTRACT FOR NINE (9) NEW FORD HYBRID POLICE INTERCEPTOR UTILITY VEHICLES 
 FROM NATIONAL AUTO FLEET GROUP 
 
 
 
This Purchase Contract (“Contract”), made and entered into this day of ___________________, 
by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State 
of California (“CITY”), and NATIONAL AUTO FLEET GROUP, a Division of Chevrolet of Watsonville 
(“VENDOR”). 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires to purchase nine (9) 2021 Ford Hybrid Police Interceptor Utility vehicles 
hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage VENDOR to provide this Ford Hybrid Police Interceptor Utility 
vehicle by reason of its qualifications and experience and VENDOR has offered to provide the required 
goods on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - PURCHASE 
 
 
The goods to be purchased from VENDOR under this Contract are described in Exhibit A to this 
Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - PRICE AND TAXES 
 
 
 
All prices, for an amount not to exceed $475,534.44 which includes sales tax, shall be as 
stated in this Contract and are firm and not subject to escalation.  This purchase is subject to all 
California sales tax.  Municipalities are exempt from federal excise and transportation taxes.  Prices 
shall exclude these taxes.   
 
SECTION 3 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, payment terms shall be net thirty (30) days from date of 
receipt of invoice or acceptance of goods, whichever occurs last.  Invoices must cite the purchase order 
number to prevent delay in payment.  All invoices must be mailed to City of San Mateo, Attn:  Accounts 
Payable, 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403. 
 
215 of 734

--- page 216 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 2 of 6 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 4 - DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE 
 
 
Time is of the essence in the performance of this Contract.  If delivery of goods cannot be made 
at the specified time, VENDOR shall promptly notify the CITY of the earliest possible date for delivery.  
Notwithstanding such notice, if VENDOR for any reason fails to deliver goods within the time specified 
or to the CITY’s satisfaction the CITY may terminate this Contract or any part thereof without liability 
except for goods previously provided and accepted.  The CITY’s receipt or acceptance of all or part of a 
non-conforming delivery shall not constitute a waiver of any claim, right or remedy the CITY has under 
this Contract or applicable law.  
 
SECTION 5 - SHIPMENT AND INSPECTION 
 
 
VENDOR assumes full responsibility for all transportation, transportation scheduling, packing, 
handling, insurance, and other services associated with delivery of all products.  No charges for 
transportation containers, packing, etc., will be allowed the vendor unless so specified in this Contract.  
All shipments shall be F.O. B. 1961 Pacific Blvd. San Mateo.  Transportation charges shall be shown as a 
separate item on the invoice. 
 
 
The CITY may revise shipping instructions as to any goods not as yet shipped.  The CITY shall 
have the right to inspect any or all of the goods at VENDOR’s place of business or upon receipt by the 
CITY.  By reason of its failure to inspect the goods, the CITY shall not be deemed to have accepted any 
defective goods or goods which do not conform to the specifications provided or to have waived any of 
the CITY’s rights or remedies arising by virtue of such defects or non-conformance.  VENDOR shall be 
responsible for payment of shipping for the return of any defective goods.  Shipping documents and 
invoices must cite the Purchase Order number. 
 
SECTION 6 - WARRANTIES 
 
 
In addition to any other expressed or implied warranties and unless otherwise agreed in 
writing, VENDOR warrants that all products delivered hereunder will be new, suitable for use as 
described, of the grade and quality specified, free from all defects in design, material and 
workmanship; in conformity with all samples, drawings, descriptions and specifications furnished; in 
compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and free of any liens and 
encumbrances.  These warranties shall not be deemed to exclude VENDOR’s standard warranties or 
other rights or warranties which the CITY may have or obtain. 
 
SECTION 7 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
VENDOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of VENDOR’s performance of this Contract, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  VENDOR agrees to defend CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
216 of 734

--- page 217 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 3 of 6 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 8 - TERMINATION 
 
 
This Contract may be terminated by mutual consent of both parties or by the CITY at its 
discretion.  The CITY may cancel an order for goods at any time with written notice to VENDOR, stating 
the extent and effective date of termination.  Upon receipt of this written notice, VENDOR shall stop 
performance under this Contract as directed by the CITY.  If the Contract is terminated, VENDOR shall 
be paid in accordance with the terms of the Contract for goods delivered and accepted. 
 
SECTION 9 - REMEDIES 
 
 
In the event of VENDOR’s breach of this Contract, City may take any or all of the following 
actions, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies available to the City by law:  (a) require 
Vendor to repair or replace such goods, and upon VENDOR’s failure or refusal to do so, repair or 
replace the same at VENDOR’s expense; (b) reject any shipment or delivery containing defective or 
nonconforming goods and return for credit or replacement at VENDOR’s option, said return to be 
made at VENDOR’s cost and risk; (c) cancel any outstanding deliveries and treat such breach by 
VENDOR as VENDOR’s repudiation of this contract.  In the event of the CITY’s breach hereunder, 
VENDOR’s exclusive remedy shall be VENDOR’s recovery of the goods or the purchase price payable for 
goods shipped prior to such breach. 
 
SECTION 10 - COMPLIANCE WITH LAW 
 
 
VENDOR warrants that it will comply with all federal, state, and local laws, ordinances, rules 
and regulations applicable to its performance under this Contract.  VENDOR shall obtain and maintain 
throughout the life of the Contract all permits or licenses required in connection with the manufacture, 
sale, and shipment of the products ordered under this Contract.   
 
SECTION 11 - ASSIGNMENT 
 
 
VENDOR shall not delegate or subcontract any duties and services or assign any rights or claims 
under this Contract without the CITY’s prior written consent. 
 
SECTION 12 - ARTWORK, DESIGNS, PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS 
 
 
VENDOR hereby agrees that the sale, use or incorporation into manufactured products of all 
machines, software, hardware, materials and other devices furnished under this Contract are free and 
clear of infringement of any valid patent, copyright, or trademark.  VENDOR shall hold the CITY 
harmless from any and all costs and expenses, including attorney fees, liability, and loss of any kind 
growing out of claims, suits or actions alleging such infringement, and VENDOR agrees to defend such 
claims, suits or actions. 
 
217 of 734

--- page 218 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 4 of 6 
Rev 9/17 
SECTION 13 - GOVERNING LAW 
 
 
This Purchase Order and the contract between the parties evidenced hereby or attached 
thereto shall be deemed to be made in the State of California and shall in all respects be construed and 
governed by the laws of that state. 
 
SECTION 14 - VENUE 
 
 
In the event of litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo.   
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVER 
 
 
The waiver of any term, condition or provision hereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of 
any other such term, condition or provision, nor shall such waiver be deemed a waiver of a subsequent 
breach of the same term, condition or provision. 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in an amount not exceeding $85 per hour per attorney, and in total amount not 
exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any 
action or actions to enforce the provisions of this Contract.  The above $5000 limit is the total of 
attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of 
the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It is the intent of this provision that neither party 
shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to 
enforce the provisions of this Contract. 
 
SECTION 17 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Contract, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the California State Board 
of Mediation and Conciliation, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a 
"blindfolded" process. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 18 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
218 of 734

--- page 219 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 5 of 6 
Rev 9/17 
To CITY: 
Eric Bell 
City of San Mateo 
1961 Pacific Blvd. 
San Mateo, CA, 94403 
 
To VENDOR: 
National Auto Fleet Group 
Attn: Jesse Cooper 
490 Auto Center Drive 
Watsonville, CA, 95076 
 
SECTION 19 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and VENDOR and 
supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and VENDOR. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
219 of 734

--- page 220 ---
Purchase Contract for Goods 
 
Page 6 of 6 
Rev 9/17 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and National Auto Fleet Group have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
VENDOR 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Name 
Title 
Its Authorized Agent 
 
 
220 of 734

--- page 221 ---
5/3/2021 Sell, service, and deliver letter

FS National Auto Fleet Groep

A Division of Cheversiat of Watsonville
480 Auto Center Drive, Watsonville, CA S5076
(855) 289-6972 + (831) 480-8497 Fax
Fleet@NationalAutoFleetGroup. com

2/22/2021
5/3/2021 Re-Configured Quote ID: 15809 R3

Order Cut Off Date: TBA
Ms Cathy Huffington

City of San Mateo

1961 Pacific BLVD

San Mateo, California, 94403
Dear Cathy Huffington,

National Auto Fleet Group is pleased to quote the following vehicle(s) for your consideration.

Nine (9) New/Unused (2021 Ford Police Interceptor Utility (K8A) AWD, Paint White Clearcoat 4 Doors & Roof)
and delivered to your specified location, each for

One Unit One Unit Total% Extended Total
(MSRP) Savings Unit's (9) Savings
Contract Price $52,555.00 $46,439.16 '7°37 $417,952.44 $55,042.56
Paint White Clearcoat $1,395.00 $1,395.00 $12,555.00
4 Doors & Roof
Tax (9.5000 %) $4,544.25 $40,898.25
Tire fee $8.75 $78.75
Transportation $450.00 $4,050.00
Total $52,837.16 $475,534.44

- per the attached specifications.

This vehicle(s) is available under the Sourcewell (Formerly Known as NJPA) Contract 120716-NAF . Please
reference this Contract number on all purchase orders to National Auto Fleet Group. Payment terms are Net 20 days
after receipt of vehicle.

Thank you in advance for your consideration. Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to call.

Sincerely,

Jesse Cooper Quoting Department

Account Manager Account Manager

Email: Fleet@NationalAutoFleetGroup.com Fleet@NationalAutoFleetGroup.com
Office: (855) 289-6572 (855) 289-6572

Fax: (831) 480-8497

S&S) Gmc

https://www.nationalautofleetgroup.com/OrderRequest/SSDPrint/15809?ws=true&se=true&ssdType=QuickQuote 221 of 734 3/12



--- page 222 ---
5/3/2021 Sell, service, and deliver letter

Purchase Order Instructions & Resources

In order to finalize your purchase please submit this purchase packet to your

governing body for a purchase order approval and submit your purchase order in the
following way:

Email: Fleet@NationalAutoFleetGroup.com

Fax: (831) 480-8497

Mail: National Auto Fleet Group
490 Auto Center Drive
Watsonville, CA 95076

We will send a courtesy confirmation for your order and a W-9 if needed.

Additional Resources

Learn how to track your vehicle: www.NAFGETA.com
Use the upfitter of your choice: www.NAFGpartner.com
Vehicle Status: ETA@NationalAutoFleetGroup.com
General Inquiries: Fleet@NationalAutoFleetGroup.com

For general questions or assistance please contact our main office at:

1-855-289-6572

https://www. nationalautofleetgroup.com/OrderRequest/SSDPrint/15809?ws=true&se=true&ssdType=QuickQuote 222 of 734 4/12


--- page 223 ---
5/3/2021 Sell, service, and deliver letter

Vehicle Configuration Options

Code Description

99W a 3.3L V6 DIRECT-INJECTION HYBRID SYSTEM, -inc: (136-MPH top speed)
TD)

TRANSMISSION

Code Description
4B TRANSMISSION: 10-SPEED AUTOMATIC, (STD)

ik

os]
a
=
>
a
<
U
=
=z
=f

Code
M

Description
AGATE BLACK

‘f

y
2
Zz
=]
”
oO
<
m
=
m

Code

Oo

escription
TANDARD PAINT

”

SEAT TY

v0
m

Description

CHARCOAL BLACK, UNIQUE HD CLOTH FRONT BUCKET SEATS W/VINYL REAR, -inc:
reduced bolsters, driver 6-way power track (fore/aft, up/down, tilt w/manual recline, 2-way
manual lumbar), passenger 2-way manual track (fore/aft, w/manual recline) and built-in
steel intrusion plates in both driver/passenger seatbacks

:
5
fe)

escription
.73 AXLE RATIO, (STD)
ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT

w

Code

Description
POLICE ENGINE IDLE FEATURE, -inc: This feature allows you to leave the engine

47A running and prevents your vehicle from unauthorized use when outside of your vehicle,
Allows the key to be removed from ignition while vehicle remains idling

H8 AGM BATTERY (850 CCA/92-AMP)

UNDERBODY DEFLECTOR PLATE, -inc: Engine and transmission shield

63B SIDE MARKER LED SIDEVIEW MIRRORS, -inc: driver side - red/passenger side - blue,
Located on exterior mirror housing, LED lights only, Wiring and controller not included

DUAL (DRIVER & PASSENGER) LED SPOT LAMPS (WHELEN)
2ND ROW ONLY SOLAR TINT GLASS, -inc: privacy glass on rear quarter and liftgate

92R window

https://www.nationalautofleetgroup.com/OrderRequest/SSDPrint/1 5809?ws=true&se=true&ssd Type=QuickQuote 223 of 734 5/12


--- page 224 ---
5/3/2021 Sell, service, and deliver letter

FRONT HEADLAMP LIGHTING SOLUTION, -inc: LED low beam/high beam headlamp,
wig-wag function and (2) red/blue/white LED side warning lights in each headlamp (factory
configured: driver's side white/red/passenger side white/blue), Wiring and LED lights
included (in headlamps only; grille lights not included), Controller not included, Grille LED
Lights, Siren & Speaker Pre-Wiring

TAIL LAMP LIGHTING SOLUTION, -inc: LED lights plus (2) rear integrated hemispheric
lighthead white LED side warning lights in taillamps, LED lights only, Wiring and controller
not included

REAR LIGHTING SOLUTION, -inc: (2) backlit flashing linear high-intensity LED lights
(driver's side red/passenger side blue) mounted to inside liftgate glass and (2) backlit
flashing linear high-intensity LED lights (driver's side red/passenger side blue) installed on
inside lip of liftgate (lights activate when liftgate is open), LED lights only, Wiring and
controller not included

FRONT WARNING AUXILIARY LED LIGHTS, -inc: driver side - red/passenger side - blue
REAR AUXILIARY LIFTGATE LIGHTS, -inc: Red/blue LED lights, Located beneath liftgate
43A ; ; _
glass in applique panel, LED lights only, Wiring and controller not included
63L REAR QUARTER GLASS SIDE MARKER LED LIGHTS, -inc: driver side - red/passenger

side - blue, LED lights only, Wiring and controller not included

100 WATT SIREN/SPEAKER W/BRACKET & PIGTAIL

BALLISTIC DOOR-PANELS (LEVEL III+), -inc: Driver and passenger front-doors
9B KEYED ALIKE - 1284X

7P 8-WAY POWER PASSENGER SEAT, -inc: 2-way power recline and lumbar

5 REMOTE KEYLESS ENTRY KEY FOB W/O KEY PAD, -inc: Does not include PATS, 4-key
fobs, Key fobs are not fobbed alike when ordered w/keyed-alike

REAR AUXILIARY AIR CONDITIONING

SWITCHABLE RED/WHITE LIGHTING IN CARGO AREA, -inc: Deletes 3rd row overhead
map light

REAR VIEW CAMERA, -inc: Displayed in rear view mirror, Note: This option replaces the
standard display in the center stack area, Note: Camera can only be displayed in the
center stack (std) or the rear view mirror (87R), Electrochromic Rear View Mirror, Video is
displayed in rear view mirror

FRONT & REAR POLICE WIRE HARNESS CONNECTOR KIT, -inc: For connectivity to
Ford PI Package solutions includes front (2) male 4-pin connectors for siren, (5) female 4-
pin connectors for lighting/siren/speaker, (1) 4-pin IP connector for speakers, (1) 4-pin IP
67V connector for siren controller connectivity, (1) 8-pin sealed connector, (1) 14-pin IP
connector, rear (2) male 4-pin connectors for siren, (5) female 4-pin connectors for
lighting/siren/speaker, (1) 4-pin IP connector for speakers, (1) 4-pin IP connector for siren
controller connectivity, (1) 8-pin sealed connector and (1) 14-pin IP connector

GRILLE LED LIGHTS, SIREN & SPEAKER PRE-WIRING

NOISE SUPPRESSION BONDS (GROUND STRAPS)

8X

on

7A

17T

ai

OA

il

O
v
=a
fe)
z
a)
>
:
Q
m

Description

00A ORDER CODE 500A

AIO
°
a.
©

https://www.nationalautofleetgroup.com/OrderRequest/SSDPrint/1 5809?ws=true&se=true&ssd Type=QuickQuote 224 of 734 6/12


--- page 225 ---
5/3/2021 Sell, service, and deliver letter

2021 Fleet/Non-Retail Ford Police Interceptor Utility AWD
WINDOW STICKER

2021 Ford Police Interceptor Utility AWD

CODE MODEL MSRP
K8A 2021 Ford Police Interceptor Utility AWD $40,845.00

OPTIONS

ENGINE: 3.3L V6 DIRECT-INJECTION HYBRID SYSTEM, -inc: (136-MPH top speed) (STD)
44B TRANSMISSION: 10-SPEED AUTOMATIC, (STD) $0.00
AGATE BLACK
STANDARD PAINT

CHARCOAL BLACK, UNIQUE HD CLOTH FRONT BUCKET SEATS W/VINYL REAR, -inc:
reduced bolsters, driver 6-way power track (fore/aft, up/down, tilt w/manual recline, 2-way manual
lumbar), passenger 2-way manual track (fore/aft, w/manual recline) and built-in steel intrusion
plates in both driver/passenger seatbacks

3.73 AXLE RATIO, (STD) $0.00

47TA POLICE ENGINE IDLE FEATURE, -inc: This feature allows you to leave the engine running and $260.00
prevents your vehicle from unauthorized use when outside of your vehicle, Allows the key to be
removed from ignition while vehicle remains idling

19K H8 AGM BATTERY (850 CCA/92-AMP) $110.00
76D UNDERBODY DEFLECTOR PLATE, -inc: Engine and transmission shield $335.00

63B SIDE MARKER LED SIDEVIEW MIRRORS, -inc: driver side - red/passenger side - blue, Located $290.00
on exterior mirror housing, LED lights only, Wiring and controller not included

51V DUAL (DRIVER & PASSENGER) LED SPOT LAMPS (WHELEN) $665.00
92R 2ND ROW ONLY SOLAR TINT GLASS, -inc: privacy glass on rear quarter and liftgate window $85.00

66A FRONT HEADLAMP LIGHTING SOLUTION, -inc: LED low beam/high beam headlamp, wig-wag $895.00
function and (2) red/blue/white LED side warning lights in each headlamp (factory configured:
driver's side white/red/passenger side white/blue), Wiring and LED lights included (in headlamps
only; grille lights not included), Controller not included, Grille LED Lights, Siren & Speaker Pre-

Wiring

66B TAIL LAMP LIGHTING SOLUTION, -inc: LED lights plus (2) rear integrated hemispheric lighthead $430.00
white LED side warning lights in taillamps, LED lights only, Wiring and controller not included

66C REAR LIGHTING SOLUTION, -inc: (2) backlit flashing linear high-intensity LED lights (driver's side $455.00

red/passenger side blue) mounted to inside liftgate glass and (2) backlit flashing linear high-
intensity LED lights (driver's side red/passenger side blue) installed on inside lip of liftgate (lights
activate when liftgate is open), LED lights only, Wiring and controller not included

21L FRONT WARNING AUXILIARY LED LIGHTS, -inc: driver side - red/passenger side - blue $550.00
43A REAR AUXILIARY LIFTGATE LIGHTS, -inc: Red/blue LED lights, Located beneath liftgate glass in $395.00

applique panel, LED lights only, Wiring and controller not included
63L REAR QUARTER GLASS SIDE MARKER LED LIGHTS, -inc: driver side - red/passenger side - $575.00
blue, LED lights only, Wiring and controller not included
18X 100 WATT SIREN/SPEAKER W/BRACKET & PIGTAIL $315.00
90E BALLISTIC DOOR-PANELS (LEVEL III+), -inc: Driver and passenger front-doors $3,170.00
59B KEYED ALIKE - 1284X $50.00

https://www.nationalautofleetgroup.com/OrderRequest/SSDPrint/1 5809?ws=true&se=true&ssdType=QuickQuote 225 of 734 7HN2


--- page 226 ---
5/3/2021
87P
SSF

17A
17T

87R

76R
67V

60A
60R
500A

Sell, service, and deliver letter
8-WAY POWER PASSENGER SEAT, -inc: 2-way power recline and lumbar

REMOTE KEYLESS ENTRY KEY FOB W/O KEY PAD, -inc: Does not include PATS, 4-key fobs,
Key fobs are not fobbed alike when ordered w/keyed-alike

REAR AUXILIARY AIR CONDITIONING

SWITCHABLE RED/WHITE LIGHTING IN CARGO AREA, -inc: Deletes 3rd row overhead map
light

REAR VIEW CAMERA, -inc: Displayed in rear view mirror, Note: This option replaces the standard
display in the center stack area, Note: Camera can only be displayed in the center stack (std) or
the rear view mirror (87R), Electrochromic Rear View Mirror, Video is displayed in rear view mirror

REVERSE SENSING SYSTEM

FRONT & REAR POLICE WIRE HARNESS CONNECTOR KIT, -inc: For connectivity to Ford PI
Package solutions includes front (2) male 4-pin connectors for siren, (5) female 4-pin connectors
for lighting/siren/speaker, (1) 4-pin IP connector for speakers, (1) 4-pin IP connector for siren
controller connectivity, (1) 8-pin sealed connector, (1) 14-pin IP connector, rear (2) male 4-pin
connectors for siren, (5) female 4-pin connectors for lighting/siren/speaker, (1) 4-pin IP connector
for speakers, (1) 4-pin IP connector for siren controller connectivity, (1) 8-pin sealed connector and
(1) 14-pin IP connector

GRILLE LED LIGHTS, SIREN & SPEAKER PRE-WIRING
NOISE SUPPRESSION BONDS (GROUND STRAPS)
ORDER CODE 500A

Please note selected options override standard equipment

SUBTOTAL
Advert/ Adjustments

Manufacturer Destination Charge

TOTAL PRICE

Est City: N/A MPG
Est Highway: N/A MPG
Est Highway Cruising Range: N/A mi

$325.00
$340.00

$610.00
$50.00

$0.00

$275.00
$185.00

INC
$100.00
$0.00

$51,310.00
$0.00
$1,245.00

$52,555.00

Any performance-related calculations are offered solely as guidelines. Actual unit performance will depend on your operating

conditions.

https://www.nationalautofleetgroup.com/OrderRequesvSSDPrint/1 5809?ws=true&se=true&ssdType=QuickQuote 226 of 734

8/12


--- page 227 ---
5/3/2021 Sell, service, and deliver letter

Standard Equipment

MECHANICAL

Engine: 3.3L V6 Direct-Injection Hybrid System -inc: (136-MPH top speed)

Transmission: 10-Speed Automatic
3.73 Axle Ratio

GVWR: 6,840 Ibs (3,103 kgs)

50 State Emission System Flexible Fuel Vehicle (FFV) system is standard equipment for vehicles
equipped with the 3.3L V6 Direct-Injection engine.

Transmission w/Oil Cooler
Automatic Full-Time All-Wheel

Engine Oil Cooler
80-Amp/Hr 800CCA Maintenance-Free Battery

Multi-Link Rear Suspension w/Coil Springs

Regenerative 4-Wheel Disc Brakes w/4-Wheel ABS, Front And Rear Vented Discs, Brake Assist and
Hill Hold Control

Lithium lon Traction Battery

EXTERIOR

Wheels: 18" x 8" 5-Spoke Painted Black Steel -inc: polished stainless steel hub cover and center caps

Body-Colored Bodyside Cladding and Black Wheel Well Trim

https://www. nationalautofleetgroup.com/OrderRequest/SSDPrint/15809?ws=true&se=true&ssdType=QuickQuote 227 of 734 9/12


--- page 228 ---
5/3/2021 Sell, service, and deliver letter

Black Side Windows Trim and Black Front Windshield Trim
Black Door Handles

Black Power Side Mirrors w/Convex Spotter and Manual Folding

Fixed Rear Window w/Fixed Interval Wiper, Heated Wiper Park and Defroster
Deep Tinted Glass

Speed Sensitive Variable Intermittent Wipers

Galvanized Steel/Aluminum Panels

Lip Spoiler

Black Grille

Liftgate Rear Cargo Access

Tailgate/Rear Door Lock Included w/Power Door Locks

Fully Automatic Projector Beam Led Low/High Beam Headlamps

LED Brakelights

ENTERTAINMENT

Radio: AM/FM/MP3 Capable -inc: clock, 4-speakers, Bluetooth interface w/hands-free voice command
support (compatible w/most Bluetooth connected mobile devices), 1 USB port and 4.2" color LCD
screen center stack smart display

Radio w/Seek-Scan, Speed Compensated Volume Control and Steering Wheel Controls
Integrated Roof Antenna
4 LCD Monitor In The Front

INTERIOR

-Way Driver Seat
Passenger Seat

5-30-35 Folding Split-Bench Front Facing Fold Forward Seatback Rear Seat
Manual Tilt/Telescoping Steering Column

Gauges -inc: Speedometer, Odometer, Engine Coolant Temp, Tachometer, Engine Hour Meter, Traction
Battery Level, Trip Odometer and Trip Computer

Power Rear Windows and Fixed 3rd Row Windows
Ford Fleet Telematics Selective Service Internet Access

Remote Releases -Inc: Power Cargo Access
Cruise Control w/Steering Wheel Controls
Dual Zone Front Automatic Air Conditioning
HVAC -inc: Underseat Ducts

Locking Glove Box

Driver Foot Rest

Unique HD Cloth Front Bucket Seats w/Vinyl Rear -inc: reduced bolsters, driver 6-way power track
(fore/aft, up/down, tilt w/manual recline, 2-way manual lumbar), passenger 2-way manual track (fore/aft,
w/manual recline) and built-in steel intrusion plates in both driver/passenger seatbacks

https://www.nationalautofleetgroup.com/OrderRequest/SSDPrint/15809?ws=true&se=true&ssdT ype=QuickQuote 228 of 734 10/12


--- page 229 ---
5/3/2021 Sell, service, and deliver letter

Interior Trim -inc: Metal-Look Instrument Panel Insert, Metal-Look Door Panel Insert and Metal-Look
Interior Accents

Full Cloth Headliner

Urethane Gear Shifter Material

Day-Night Rearview Mirror

Driver And Passenger Visor Vanity Mirrors

Mini Overhead Console w/Storage and 2 12V DC Power Outlets

Front And Rear Map Lights

Fade-To-Off Interior Lighting

Full Vinyl/Rubber Floor Covering

Carpet Floor Trim

Cargo Features -inc: Cargo Tray/Organizer

Cargo Space Lights

Dashboard Storage, Driver And Passenger Door Bins

Power 1st Row Windows w/Driver And Passenger 1-Touch Up/Down

Delayed Accessory Power

Power Door Locks

Systems Monitor

Redundant Digital Speedometer

Trip Computer

Analog Display

Seats w/Vinyl Back Material

Manual Adjustable Front Head Restraints and Manual Adjustable Rear Head Restraints
12V DC Power Outlets

Air Filtration

SAFETY

Electronic Stability Control (ESC) And Roll Stability Control (RSC)
ABS And Driveline Traction Control

Side Impact Beams

Dual Stage Driver And Passenger Seat-Mounted Side Airbags
Tire Specific Low Tire Pressure Warning

Dual Stage Driver And Passenger Front Airbags

Curtain 1st And 2nd Row Airbags

Airbag Occupancy Sensor

Passenger Knee Airbag

Rear Child Safety Locks

Outboard Front Lap And Shoulder Safety Belts -inc: Rear Center 3 Point, Height Adjusters and
Pretensioners

Back-Up Camera w/Washer

https://www.nationalautofleetgroup.com/OrderRequest/SSDPrint/15809?ws=true&se=true&ssdType=QuickQuote 229 of 734 11/12


--- page 230 ---
5/3/2021 Sell, service, and deliver letter

https://www.nationalautofleetgroup.com/OrderRequest/SSDPrint/ 15809?ws=true&se=true&ssd Type=QuickQuote 230 of 734 12/12


--- page 231 ---
Page 1 of 10 
Rev. 9/17 
AGREEMENT WITH PRIORITY 1 PUBLIC SAFETY EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION, INC
FOR THE PURCHASE AND INSTALLATION OF EMERGENCY LIGHTING EQUIPMENT  
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of _________________________, by and 
between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of 
California ("CITY"), and Priority 1 Public Safety Equipment Installation, Inc. a Corporation 
("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 425 Harbor Blvd. #6, Belmont, CA 94402-4048. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain Public Safety Equipment Installation services hereinafter 
described. 
 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these certain Public Safety 
Equipment Installation services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such 
services and CONTRACTOR has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the 
manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR.
 
              CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in Municipal Code 
Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer Price Index escalator.
 
 
        
 
 
 
 
231 of 734

--- page 232 ---
Page 2 of 10 
Rev. 9/17 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR'S work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on or about May 6, 2021, and 
be completed on or about June 30, 2022. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR in an amount not 
to exceed $144,336.33, a fee pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by 
reference. 
 
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
232 of 734

--- page 233 ---
Page 3 of 10 
Rev. 9/17 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of 
any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any 
preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
233 of 734

--- page 234 ---
Page 4 of 10 
Rev. 9/17 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR'S services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR'S wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR'S standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
 
234 of 734

--- page 235 ---
Page 5 of 10 
Rev. 9/17 
To CITY: 
Eric Bell 
City of San Mateo 
1961 Pacific Blvd. 
San Mateo, Ca 94403 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
Priority 1 Public Safety Equipment 
Installation, Inc. 
Attn: Marc Farber 
425 Harbor Blvd. #6 
Belmont, CA 94002-4048 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Priority 1 Public Safety Equipment Installation, Inc.
have executed this agreement on the day and year first above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
Marc Farber 
President 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: Payment Rates  
Exhibit C: Insurance Requirements 
 
235 of 734

--- page 236 ---
Page 6 of 10 
Rev. 9/17 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
CITY is contracting with CONTRACTOR for the purchase and installation of public safety equipment for each 
of nine vehicles described in the scope below. 
 
CITY shall deliver the vehicle for equipment installation and CITY shall pick up vehicle when equipment 
installation is completed. 
  
 
 
 
 
236 of 734

--- page 237 ---
Estimate
Date
5/3/2021
Estimate #
3057
Name / Address
San Mateo Police Dept
200 Flanklin Pkwy
San Mateo, CA 94403
Attention
Priority 1 Public Safety
Equipment Installation Inc.
425 Harbor Blvd. #6
Belmont, CA 94002-4048
TEL: (650) 654-9900
FAX: (650) 654-9947
Vehicle#
2021 Explorer
Terms
Net 30
Rep
Marc
Total
Subtotal
Sales Tax  (9.5%)
Item
Description
Qty
Total
27.1.20
27 Circuit Power Distribution Center
1
620.00T
PRI-KIT
Wire harness-Relays, diodes, connectors, hardware etc.
1
450.00T
VALR44S (SU 32317...
Federal signal 44" Valor. Program Special LPSF_BC_PTY1_C2.
Label Ctrl with PRGM name. Scene Lights Only in Heads 2-11,
L. Alley in Heads L&1, R. Alley in Heads L1&12, SB - Hotfoot
Steady, CRUISE = 1 through 12 SB (FULL BRIGHT), TD
Overrides SB in 2,11. Hardwire other features/settings same as
standard
1
2,200.00T
BK2019ITU20
Setina Aluminum Pushbumper, Standard Install for 2020 Police
Interceptor Utility with Whelen ION LED's. Red on Driver Side
and Blue on Passenger Side
1
908.00T
SAK9
Whelen universal siren speaker bracket for 315 series speaker.
1
33.21T
Rumbler-3
Rumbler siren system 12V
1
535.00T
RB-FPIU20
Rumbler brackets for 2020 Utility
1
43.00T
ELUC3H010 R
Sound Off Hide-a-Way L.E.D, RED
2
150.00T
ELUC3H010 B
Sound Off Hide-a-Way L.E.D, BLUE
2
150.00T
ENFSGS3RB
Sound Off Nforce dual color red/blue L.E.D grill/deck light
2
242.46T
EMPS2STS4D
Sound Off Mpower red/white stud mount (mounted in prisoner
area or patrol vehicle)
2
226.00T
EMPS2STS4D
Sound Off Mpower red/white stud mount (mounted in cargo area
of patrol vehicle)
1
113.00T
CW0411-RW
Code 3 interior L.E.D work light red/white with switch. (SPR
001-00-890184)
1
80.00T
MB8U
RG58 Coax antenna cable.
1
14.00T
Page 1
237 of 734

--- page 238 ---
Estimate
Date
5/3/2021
Estimate #
3057
Name / Address
San Mateo Police Dept
200 Flanklin Pkwy
San Mateo, CA 94403
Attention
Priority 1 Public Safety
Equipment Installation Inc.
425 Harbor Blvd. #6
Belmont, CA 94002-4048
TEL: (650) 654-9900
FAX: (650) 654-9947
Vehicle#
2021 Explorer
Terms
Net 30
Rep
Marc
Total
Subtotal
Sales Tax  (9.5%)
Item
Description
Qty
Total
CPL9C
Antenna connector
1
4.50T
trab4703
Low Profile 470 antenna Blk
1
34.50T
MMSU1
Magnetic mic clip kit.
1
33.00T
ac-MCM1
Troy mic bracket and holder
2
27.00T
ULF44
Whelen four outlet, four channel L.E.D flasher
1
70.98T
GK10342USSCA
Setina T-Rail Gun Mount System with 2 Universal Locks
1
414.85T
inv-con-dn-isuv-20
Innovative 14" sloped console for 2020 Utility with cup holders,
armrest and face plates
1
616.90T
PK0228ITU20TM
Setina #10VS RP C2 Horizontal Sliding Window Coated
Polycarbonate, with Slotted Poly Window
1
825.00T
PKG-PSM-3006
Havis passenger side heavy duty computer mount for 2020 Utility
1
577.10T
QK0566ITU20
Setina Full Replacement Prisoner Seat with Center Pull Seatbelt
System. Includes #12VS Stationary Window Polycarbonate Cargo
Partition
1
1,220.00T
WK0595ITU20
Setina Window Barrier VS Polycarbonate
1
260.00T
933-0138A
D&R sub frame for 2020 Ford Utility with liftable door to access
spare tire and drop down electronics tray
1
472.50T
Labor
1
4,000.00T
Freight
Freight
1
325.00T
This estimate does not include the Truck Vault which has been
ordered in the past by S.M PD and dropped shipped to P1
Page 2
$16,037.37
$14,646.00
$1,391.37
238 of 734

--- page 239 ---
Page 7 of 10 
Rev. 9/17 
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT RATES 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed for each instance.   
 
 
In consideration for the full performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to 
pay CONTRACTOR the total amount not to exceed $144,336.33. 
 
239 of 734

--- page 240 ---
Page 8 of 10 
Rev. 9/17 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
 
240 of 734

--- page 241 ---
Page 9 of 9 
Rev. 9/17 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
241 of 734

--- page 242 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4682
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Fiscal Year 2020-21 Budget Appropriation - Police Department 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $200,000 to the 2020-21 Police Department operating budget, which will be fully offset 
by reimbursement revenue.
BACKGROUND:
This fiscal year, the Apple Store at the Hillsdale Shopping Center has requested a uniformed police officer to provide a 
visible safety presence in stores.  These shifts have been filled on overtime, with Apple reimbursing the City for the costs.  
The presence of a uniformed officer is a deterrent for theft, and also serves to enhance response times for other crimes 
which occur at the shopping center.  
In January 2021, the Police Department requested a $400,000 budget appropriation, fully offset by reimbursement 
revenues from Apple, to cover the costs that had been incurred to date.  At that time, Apple had closed its stores 
indefinitely due to the pandemic and related health orders, and it was therefore unclear whether additional costs would 
be incurred.  Beginning in March, the Apple store re-opened and has again requested the presence of a uniformed officer.  
The Police Department is requesting a budget appropriation of $200,000, which will be fully offset by revenue, to cover the 
costs incurred and anticipated for remainder of the fiscal year.  Funding for this expense is planned in the 2021-22 budget 
so that future appropriation requests will not be necessary.
BUDGET IMPACT:
This appropriation will have no net impact to the General Fund, as it will be fully offset by reimbursement revenue. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Tricia Toomey, Business Manager
242 of 734

--- page 243 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ttoomey@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7623
243 of 734

--- page 244 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
APPROVING ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATION TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT IN THE 2020-21 BUDGET
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires City Council approval by resolution for 
supplemental appropriations to the City’s budget; and
WHEREAS, the Police Department has incurred additional overtime costs not contemplated in the 
adopted 2020-21 budget to provide a uniformed police officer at the Apple Store located at the Hillsdale 
Shopping Center to provide a visible safety presence, theft deterrent, and enhance response times; and
WHEREAS, analysis of department operating budgets for fiscal year 2020-21 indicates an amendment to 
the current Police Department appropriation is warranted to account for the unanticipated overtime costs for 
this specific detail, which are fully reimbursed by Apple; and 
WHEREAS, the impact of amending the operating budget will by fully offset by reimbursement revenues 
and have no net impact on the general fund. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
A supplemental budget appropriation for fiscal year 2020-21 is approved in the amount of $200,000 
for the Police Department. 
244 of 734

--- page 245 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4641
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Fiscal Year 2021-22 General Obligation Bond – Tax Rate Levy
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to levy the property tax rate of $0.0064 per $100 of assessed value (equates to $6.40 per $100,000 
assessed value) for the voter-approved General Obligation Bond annual debt service payment.
BACKGROUND:
General Obligation Bonds (GO Bonds) are typically issued to finance government improvements benefiting the community 
as a whole. These obligations require 2/3rd voter approval and are secured by an annual tax levy on all assessed property 
within a jurisdiction. Due to the strength of this security pledge, General Obligation Bonds are typically the lowest cost 
form of public financing. 
In 1999, voters approved a $35 million bond issue to finance construction of a new main library and improvements to the 
City’s branch libraries. These bonds were issued in two series, $12 million in 2000 (GO Bonds, Series 2000) and the 
remaining $23 million in 2004 (GO Bonds, Series 2004A). The total outstanding balance of these two bonds as of June 30, 
2012 was $29.16 million. In February 2013, City Council authorized the refinancing of these two bond issues. General 
Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2013, were issued for $27.295 million and resulted in net present value savings of $8.4 
million over the life of the remaining outstanding bonds. Correspondingly, starting in 2014, this refinancing reduced the 
annual assessment rate paid by property owners by approximately 20%. 
An annual resolution is required to provide the County of San Mateo the authority to include this levy on the annual tax 
roll. The proposed tax levy for the 2021-22 fiscal year is calculated to be $6.40 per $100,000 of assessed value, which 
represents a 4.5% reduction from the prior year levy of $6.70 per $100,000 of assessed value. The recommended 
reduction in the tax levy is due to the projected growth in the City’s assessed value from 2020-21 to 2021-22. The City’s 
total net taxable assessed valuation for fiscal year 2020-21 increased by 7.5% to $30.91 billion, compared to the prior 
year’s $28.75 billion. The levy rate for 2021-22 assumes a 4% increase in assessed value, bringing the total to $32.14 
billion. This calculation of the tax levy is sufficient to meet debt service requirements as shown in Attachment 2. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The recommended General Obligation Bond tax rate of $0.0064 per $100 of assessed value for fiscal year 2021-22 is 
estimated to raise adequate funds, approximately $2.046 million, to meet the annual debt service requirement for the 
General Obligation Refunding Bonds, Series 2013, originally issued for library capital projects.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This GO Bond Tax Rate Levy is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the 
245 of 734

--- page 246 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - GO Bond Debt Service Tax Rate Calculation and Historic GO Bond Tax Rates
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
246 of 734

--- page 247 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
FIXING THE 2021-2022 TAX RATE ON VOTER APPROVED GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS
WHEREAS, adoption of California Constitution Section XIII A (Proposition 13) by the voters of the state
on June 6, 1978 automatically established the property tax rate to be fixed without any action of this Council, as
previously required by Charter Section 5.11 and California Government Code Section 51511, except voter 
approved bonds; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has voter-approved general obligation bonds outstanding, requiring
revenues in the sum of $2,045,950 to pay interest and principal for fiscal year 2021-22, which will require a total
tax rate of $0.0064 per $100 of assessed valuation for the Library Project on the estimated $32.15 billion of
combined assessed value roll of secured property and state utility property; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to California Constitution Section XIII A, all other revenue from property taxes
required to balance the budget for the City of San Mateo are to be collected by the County of San Mateo at a tax
rate of 1% of the full face value of real property located in the City of San Mateo ($1.00 per every $100 of
assessed value) and apportioned to the City according to law, and no other tax rate is to be established by City; 
and
WHEREAS, in accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section
15378(b)(4), levying of this tax rate is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a funding mechanism which
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical
impact on the environment. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY AND ORDERS 
that: 
1.
The rate of property tax to be levied by this Council for the fiscal year July 1, 2021 through June 30,
2022, upon each $100 assessed value of all taxable property within the City of San Mateo for the purpose of
redemption of interest and principal on voter-approved general obligation bonds of the City, for the fund, is
hereby fixed at:
General Obligation Bonds Fund – $0.0064 for the Library Project
2.
The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to forward a certified copy of this resolution to the
Controller of the County of San Mateo immediately, as the statement of tax rate fixed as required by law.
247 of 734

--- page 248 ---
Principal
Interest
Total Debt Service Payment
GO Bonds 2013 Library Debt Service Payment
1,465,000
$   
580,950
$  
2,045,950
$                                   
Less use of fund balance
-
$                                                    
Adjusted Total
2,045,950
$                                   
City of San Mateo Total Net Taxable Assessed Value
30,909,521,475
$                         
estimated 4% increase
1,236,380,859
$                           
2021-22 Projected Assessed Value
32,145,902,334
$                         
GO Bonds Tax Levy
0.000064
City of San Mateo
Schedule of General Obligation Bonds (GO Bonds) Debt Service
For Fiscal Year 2021-22 Tax Rate Calculation
248 of 734

--- page 249 ---
Fiscal Year
GO Bonds Tax Rate
Per $100 Assessed Value
Net Annual
GO Bonds Debt Service
2001-02
0.01350
1,367,000
$                
2002-03
0.01250
1,380,000
$                
2003-04
0.01150
1,383,000
$                
2004-05
0.02530
3,074,170
$                
2005-06
0.02200
2,927,000
$                
2006-07
0.02100
2,945,000
$                
2007-08
0.01930
2,954,000
$                
2008-09
0.01750
2,937,000
$                
2009-10
0.01600
2,663,472
$                
2010-11
0.01290
2,141,030
$                
2011-12
0.01290
2,099,016
$                
2012-13
0.01290
2,162,032
$                
2013-14
0.01050
2,051,350
$                
2014-15
0.01050
2,034,625
$                
2015-16
0.01024
2,040,575
$                
2016-17
0.00900
2,034,450
$                
2017-18
0.00840
2,030,950
$                
2018-19
0.00770
2,030,950
$                
2019-20
0.00710
2,037,950
$                
2020-21
0.00670
2,033,150
$                
2021-22
0.00640
2,045,950
$                
CITY OF SAN MATEO
History of General Obligation Bonds Tax Rate
249 of 734

--- page 250 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4679
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Citation Processing Services and Traffic/Moving Citation Equipment Purchase – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Turbo Data Systems, Inc. for citation processing, payment, and adjudication services for a 
term beginning July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2026; purchase 30 nFORCER-II Scan traffic/moving citation units for a total 
cost of $102,000 plus $80 per unit per month for support/maintenance/communications fee; and authorize the City 
Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
Since 1999, the County of San Mateo (County) has served as the lead agency in procuring parking citation and adjudication 
services through a consolidated Request for Proposals (RFP) process, and all other agencies in the County piggy-backed on 
that RFP process and the resulting contract. This process has proved to be greatly beneficial, resulting in savings of both 
staff time and overall cost of services by combining the volume of all ticketing agencies in the County and leveraging 
economies of scale. 
In June 2015, the City of San Mateo entered into an agreement with Turbo Data Systems for the provision of citation 
processing, payment, and adjudication services. The contract term was set to expire on June 30, 2020, so the County 
began the collaborative process to issue an RFP, which was paused as a result of the pandemic, and the City extended the 
term of the agreement to June 30, 2021. In preparation for the contract expiring, the County issued a consolidated 
Request for Proposals (RFP) for the provision of citation processing, payment, and adjudication services; web-based 
information management; and records and case management for San Mateo County agencies in November 2020. Three 
proposals were received in response to the RFP. The responding vendors were Data Ticket, Quicket Solutions, and Turbo 
Data Systems. A subcommittee consisting of representatives from the County and the finance directors from the cites of 
Belmont, San Mateo, and Daly City was formed to evaluate proposals. 
The proposals were evaluated on four criteria: (1) Firm Experience, (2) Project Approach, (3) Team Qualifications, and (4) 
Fee Proposal. Based on these criteria, the subcommittee determined Turbo Data Systems, Inc. to be the best option for the 
County and the recommended provider of service. Services include citation processing and collection by mail, telephone, 
or website; multiple reminder notices; placing of DMV holds; appeals and administrative adjudication services; optional 
advanced collection efforts; and leasing of the Contractor’s mobile ticket writers. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Over the past five years, the City has paid Turbo Data as follows for citation administration services and equipment:
250 of 734

--- page 251 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Fiscal Year
Citation Administration
Equipment
Total Amount Paid
2015-16
67,474
$                         
3,185
$           
70,658
$                
2016-17
70,098
$                         
126,376
$      
196,474
$             
2017-18
72,367
$                         
83,068
$        
155,435
$             
2018-19
75,632
$                         
84,627
$        
160,259
$             
2019-20
62,915
$                         
47,467
$        
110,381
$             
Costs significantly decreased in the prior fiscal year due to the pandemic and temporary suspension of parking 
enforcement. Compared to the current contract, certain fees, such as the electronic parking citation processing fee (from 
$0.50 to $0.40 per citation) and manual parking citation processing fee (from $0.80 to $0.70 per citation) are decreasing. 
Conversely, the notice processing fee ($0.70 to $0.76 per notice) and adjudication letters fee ($0.70 to $0.76 per letter) are 
increasing. As such, absent any consideration for parking enforcement service levels, the changes in fees from Turbo Data 
will likely be offsetting, thus the cost of services should remain fairly static.
With respect to traffic/moving citation equipment, the Police Department will purchase 30 nFORCER-II Scan devices at a 
cost of $3,400 per unit for a total cost of $102,000 plus $80 per unit per month for the 
support/maintenance/communications fee, for a total monthly cost of $2,400. From a financial perspective, purchasing 30 
units and paying the support/maintenance/communications fee over a five-year period would cost the City $246,000, as 
opposed to leasing 30 units over a five-year period, which would cost $315,000 – a difference of $69,000 over five years. In 
addition, a new accounting requirement, Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) Statement No. 87, will require 
the City to account for all leases as a liability, and is expected to be administratively burdensome. As such, it is in the City’s 
best interests to purchase rather than least the units. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
251 of 734

--- page 252 ---
Page 1
AGREEMENT BETWEEN CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND TURBO DATA SYSTEMS, INC.
This Agreement is entered into this _____ day of ______________, 2021, by and between the City of San 
Mateo, hereinafter called “City” or “Customer,” and Turbo Data Systems, Inc., hereinafter called 
“Contractor.”
*
*
*
Whereas, Customer may contract with independent contractors for the furnishing of specialized services to 
or for Customer; and
Whereas, Contractor has been selected to provide parking citation processing, adjudication services, traffic 
citation processing and issuance equipment for jurisdictions within and including San Mateo County, 
thereby providing coordinated services at lower cost than would be available through separately-negotiated 
agreements; and
Whereas, the Customer does not have existing resources to provide parking citation processing and 
adjudication through its own personnel and it is therefore necessary and desirable that Contractor be 
retained for the purpose of parking citation processing and adjudication services.
Now, therefore, it is agreed by the parties to this Agreement as follows:
1.
Exhibits and Attachments
The following exhibits and attachments are attached to this Agreement and incorporated into this 
Agreement by this reference:
Exhibit A—Services
Exhibit B—Payments and Rates
2.
Services to be performed by Contractor
In consideration of the payments set forth in this Agreement and in Exhibit B, Contractor shall perform 
services for Customer in accordance with the terms, conditions, and specifications set forth in this 
Agreement and in Exhibit A.
3.
Payments
In consideration of the services provided by Contractor in accordance with all terms, conditions, and 
specifications set forth in this Agreement and in Exhibit A, Customer shall make payment to Contractor 
based on the rates and in the manner specified in Exhibit B.  Customer reserves the right to withhold 
payment if Customer determines that the quantity or quality of the work performed is unacceptable.   In the 
event that the Customer makes any advance payments, Contractor agrees to refund any amounts in excess 
of the amount owed by the Customer at the time of contract termination or expiration.
4.
Term
Subject to compliance with all terms and conditions, the term of this Agreement shall be from July 1, 2021 
through June 30, 2026.
252 of 734

--- page 253 ---
Page 2
5.
Termination; Availability of Funds
This Agreement may be terminated by Contractor or by the Customer, acting through its City Manager, 
Police Chief, or the Police Chief’s designee at any time without a requirement of good cause upon thirty 
(30) days’ advance written notice to the other party.  Subject to availability of funding, Contractor shall be 
entitled to receive payment for work/services provided prior to termination of the Agreement.  Such payment 
shall be that prorated portion of the full payment determined by comparing the work/services actually 
completed to the work/services required by the Agreement.
Customer may terminate this Agreement or a portion of the services referenced in the Attachments and 
Exhibits based upon the unavailability of Federal, State, or City funds by providing written notice to 
Contractor as soon as is reasonably possible after Customer learns of said unavailability of funding.
Customer may terminate this Agreement for cause. In order to terminate for cause, Customer must first 
give Contractor notice of the alleged breach. Contractor shall have five business days after receipt of such 
notice to respond and a total of ten calendar days after receipt of such notice to cure the alleged breach. If 
Contractor fails to cure the breach within this period, Customer may immediately terminate this Agreement 
without further action. The option available in this paragraph is separate from the ability to terminate without 
cause with appropriate notice described above. In the event that Customer provides notice of an alleged 
breach pursuant to this section, Customer may, in extreme circumstances, immediately suspend 
performance of services and payment under this Agreement pending the resolution of the process 
described in this paragraph. Customer has sole discretion to determine what constitutes an extreme 
circumstance for purposes of this paragraph, and Customer shall use reasonable judgment in making that 
determination.
6.
Contract Materials
At the end of this Agreement, or in the event of termination, all finished or unfinished documents, data, 
studies, maps, photographs, reports, and other written materials (collectively referred to as “contract 
materials”) prepared by Contractor under this Agreement shall become the property of Customer and shall 
be promptly delivered to Customer.  Upon termination, Contractor may make and retain a copy of such 
contract materials if permitted by law.  
7.
Relationship of Parties
Contractor agrees and understands that the work/services performed under this Agreement are performed 
as an independent contractor and not as an employee of Customer and that neither Contractor nor its 
employees acquire any of the rights, privileges, powers, or advantages of Customer employees.
8.
Hold Harmless 
a.
General Hold Harmless
Contractor shall indemnify and save harmless Customer and its officers, agents, employees, and servants 
from all claims, suits, or actions of every name, kind, and description resulting from this Agreement, the 
performance of any work or services required of Contractor under this Agreement, or payments made 
pursuant to this Agreement brought for, or on account of, any of the following:  
(A) injuries to or death of any person, including Contractor or its employees/officers/agents; 
(B) damage to any property arising out of the acts or omissions or property damage by the 
contractor, its agents, employees, or subcontractors; 
253 of 734

--- page 254 ---
Page 3
(C) any sanctions, penalties, or claims of damages resulting from Contractor’s failure to comply, if 
applicable, with the requirements set forth in the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability 
Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and all Federal regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended; or 
(D) any other loss or cost, including but not limited to that caused by the concurrent active or 
passive negligence of Customer and/or its officers, agents, employees, or servants.  However, 
Contractor’s duty to indemnify and save harmless under this Section shall not apply to injuries or 
damage for which Customer has been found in a court of competent jurisdiction to be solely liable 
by reason of its own negligence or willful misconduct.
The duty of Contractor to indemnify and save harmless as set forth by this Section shall include the duty to 
defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the California Civil Code.
b.
Intellectual Property Indemnification 
Contractor hereby certifies that it owns, controls, or licenses and retains all right, title, and interest in and 
to any intellectual property it uses in relation to this Agreement, including the design, look, feel, features, 
source code, content, and other technology relating to any part of the services it provides under this 
Agreement and including all related patents, inventions, trademarks, and copyrights, all applications 
therefor, and all trade names, service marks, know how, and trade secrets (collectively referred to as “IP 
Rights”) except as otherwise noted by this Agreement.  Contractor warrants that the services it provides 
under this Agreement do not infringe, violate, trespass, or constitute the unauthorized use or 
misappropriation of any IP Rights of any third party.  Contractor shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless 
Customer from and against all liabilities, costs, damages, losses, and expenses (including reasonable 
attorney fees) arising out of or related to any claim by a third party that the services provided under this 
Agreement infringe or violate any third-party’s IP Rights provided any such right is enforceable in the United 
States.  Contractor’s duty to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless under this Section applies only provided 
that:  (a) Customer notifies Contractor promptly in writing of any notice of any such third-party claim;  (b) 
Customer cooperates with Contractor, at Contractor’s expense, in all reasonable respects in connection 
with the investigation and defense of any such third-party claim; (c) Contractor retains sole control of the 
defense of any action on any such claim and all negotiations for its settlement or compromise (provided 
Contractor shall not have the right to settle any criminal action, suit, or proceeding without Customer’s prior 
written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, and provided further that any settlement permitted under 
this Section shall not impose any financial or other obligation on Customer, impair any right of Customer, 
or contain any stipulation, admission, or acknowledgement of wrongdoing on the part of Customer without 
Customer’s prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld); and (d) should services under this 
Agreement become, or in Contractor’s opinion be likely to become, the subject of such a claim, or in the 
event such a third party claim or threatened claim causes Customer’s reasonable use of the services under 
this Agreement to be seriously endangered or disrupted, Contractor shall, at Contractor’s option and 
expense, either:  (i) procure for Customer the right to continue using the services without infringement or 
(ii) replace or modify the services so that they become non-infringing but remain functionally equivalent.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, Contractor will have no obligation or liability to 
Customer under this Section to the extent any otherwise covered claim is based upon:  (a) any aspects of 
the services under this Agreement which have been modified by or for Customer (other than modification 
performed by, or at the direction of, Contractor) in such a way as to cause the alleged infringement at issue; 
and/or (b) any aspects of the services under this Agreement which have been used by Customer in a 
manner prohibited by this Agreement.
254 of 734

--- page 255 ---
Page 4
The duty of Contractor to indemnify and save harmless as set forth by this Section shall include the duty to 
defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the California Civil Code.
9.
Assignability and Subcontracting
Contractor shall not assign this Agreement or any portion of it to a third party or subcontract with a third 
party to provide services required by Contractor under this Agreement without the prior written consent of 
Customer.  Any such assignment or subcontract without Customer’s prior written consent shall give 
Customer the right to automatically and immediately terminate this Agreement without penalty or advance 
notice.
10.
Payment of Permits/Licenses
Contractor bears responsibility to obtain any license, permit, or approval required from any agency for 
work/services to be performed under this Agreement at Contractor’s own expense prior to commencement 
of said work/services.  Failure to do so will result in forfeit of any right to compensation under this 
Agreement.
11.
Insurance
a.
General Requirements
Contractor shall not commence work under this Agreement unless and until all insurance required under 
this Section has been obtained and such insurance has been approved by the Customer, and Contractor 
shall use diligence to obtain such insurance and to obtain such approval.  Contractor shall furnish Customer 
with certificates of insurance and endorsements evidencing the required coverage, and there shall be a 
specific contractual liability endorsement extending Contractor’s coverage to include the contractual liability 
assumed by Contractor pursuant to this Agreement.  These certificates shall specify or be endorsed to 
provide that thirty (30) days’ notice must be given, in writing, to Customer of any pending change in the 
limits of liability or of any cancellation or modification of the policy.
b.
Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance
Contractor shall have in effect during the entire term of this Agreement workers’ compensation and 
employer’s liability insurance providing full statutory coverage.  In signing this Agreement, Contractor 
certifies, as required by Section 1861 of the California Labor Code, that (a) it is aware of the provisions of 
Section 3700 of the California Labor Code, which require every employer to be insured against liability for 
workers’ compensation or to undertake self-insurance in accordance with the provisions of the Labor Code, 
and (b) it will comply with such provisions before commencing the performance of work under this 
Agreement.
c.
Liability Insurance
Contractor shall take out and maintain during the term of this Agreement such bodily injury liability and 
property damage liability insurance as shall protect Contractor and all of its employees/officers/agents while 
performing work covered by this Agreement from any and all claims for damages for bodily injury, including 
accidental death, as well as any and all claims for property damage which may arise from Contractor’s 
operations under this Agreement, whether such operations be by Contractor, any subcontractor, anyone 
directly or indirectly employed by either of them, or an agent of either of them.  Such insurance shall be 
combined single limit bodily injury and property damage for each occurrence and shall not be less than the 
amounts specified below:
255 of 734

--- page 256 ---
Page 5
☒
Comprehensive General Liability… 
$1,000,000 
☒
Motor Vehicle Liability Insurance… 
$1,000,000 
☒
Professional Liability……………….
$1,000,000 
Customer and its officers, agents, employees, and servants shall be named as additional insured on any 
such policies of insurance, which shall also contain a provision that (a) the insurance afforded thereby to 
Customer and its officers, agents, employees, and servants shall be primary insurance to the full limits of 
liability of the policy, including if such limits are greater than the minimums specified here and (b) if the 
Customer or its officers, agents, employees, and servants have other insurance against the loss covered 
by such a policy, such other insurance shall be excess insurance only.
In the event of the breach of any provision of this Section, or in the event any notice is received which 
indicates any required insurance coverage will be diminished or canceled, Customer, at its option, may, 
notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, immediately declare a material 
breach of this Agreement and suspend all further work and payment pursuant to this Agreement.
12.
Compliance With Laws
All services to be performed by Contractor pursuant to this Agreement shall be performed in accordance 
with all applicable Federal, State, County, and municipal laws, ordinances, and regulations, including but 
not limited to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the Federal 
Regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended (if applicable), the Business Associate requirements set 
forth in Attachment H (if attached), the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, and Section 
504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in programs 
and activities receiving any Federal or County financial assistance.  Such services shall also be performed 
in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations, including but not limited to appropriate 
licensure, certification regulations, provisions pertaining to confidentiality of records, and applicable quality 
assurance regulations.  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and any applicable 
State, Federal, County, or municipal law or regulation, the requirements of the applicable law or regulation 
will take precedence over the requirements set forth in this Agreement.  
Contractor will timely and accurately complete, sign, and submit all necessary documentation of 
compliance.
13.
Non-Discrimination and Other Requirements
a.
General Non-discrimination
No person shall be denied any services provided pursuant to this Agreement (except as limited by the 
scope of services) on the grounds of race, color, national origin, ancestry, age, disability (physical or 
mental), sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, marital or domestic partner status, religion, political beliefs 
or affiliation, familial or parental status (including pregnancy), medical condition, military service, or genetic 
information.
b.
Equal Employment Opportunity
Contractor shall ensure equal employment opportunity based on objective standards of recruitment, 
classification, selection, promotion, compensation, performance evaluation, and management relations for 
256 of 734

--- page 257 ---
Page 6
all employees under this Agreement.  Contractor’s equal employment policies shall be made available to 
Customer upon request.
c.
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
Contractor shall comply with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, which provides 
that no otherwise qualified individual with a disability shall, solely by reason of a disability, be excluded from 
the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination in the performance of any 
services this Agreement.  This Section applies only to contractors who are providing services to members 
of the public under this Agreement.
d.
Compliance with San Mateo County’s Equal Benefits Ordinance
With respect to the provision of benefits to its employees, Contractor shall comply with Chapter 2.84 of the 
County Ordinance Code, which prohibits contractors from discriminating in the provision of employee 
benefits between an employee with a domestic partner and an employee with a spouse.  In order to meet 
the requirements of Chapter 2.84, Contractor must certify which of the following statements is/are accurate:
☒
Contractor complies with Chapter 2.84 by offering the same benefits to its employees with spouses and 
its employees with domestic partners.
☐
Contractor complies with Chapter 2.84 by offering, in the case where the same benefits are not offered 
to its employees with spouses and its employees with domestic partners, a cash payment to an 
employee with a domestic partner that is equal to Contractor’s cost of providing the benefit to an 
employee with a spouse.
☐
Contractor is exempt from having to comply with Chapter 2.84 because it has no employees or does 
not provide benefits to employees’ spouses.
☐
Contractor does not comply with Chapter 2.84, and a waiver must be sought. 
e.
Discrimination Against Individuals with Disabilities
The nondiscrimination requirements of 41 C.F.R. 60-741.5(a) are incorporated into this Agreement as if 
fully set forth here, and Contractor and any subcontractor shall abide by the requirements of 41 C.F.R. 60–
741.5(a).  This regulation prohibits discrimination against qualified individuals on the basis of disability and 
requires affirmative action by covered prime contractors and subcontractors to employ and advance in 
employment qualified individuals with disabilities.
f.
History of Discrimination
Contractor must check one of the two following options, and by executing this Agreement, Contractor 
certifies that the option selected is accurate:
☒
No finding of discrimination has been issued in the past 365 days against Contractor by the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission, Fair Employment and Housing Commission, or any other 
investigative entity.
☐
Finding(s) of discrimination have been issued against Contractor within the past 365 days by the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission, Fair Employment and Housing Commission, or other 
257 of 734

--- page 258 ---
Page 7
investigative entity.  If this box is checked, Contractor shall provide Customer with a written explanation 
of the outcome(s) or remedy for the discrimination.
g.
Reporting; Violation of Non-discrimination Provisions
Contractor shall report to the Customer the filing in any court or with any administrative agency of any 
complaint or allegation of discrimination on any of the bases prohibited by this Section of the Agreement or 
Section 12, above.  Such duty shall include reporting of the filing of any and all charges with the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission, the Fair Employment and Housing Commission, or any other entity 
charged with the investigation or adjudication of allegations covered by this subsection within 30 days of 
such filing, provided that within such 30 days such entity has not notified Contractor that such charges are 
dismissed or otherwise unfounded.  Such notification shall include a general description of the 
circumstances involved and a general description of the kind of discrimination alleged
Violation of the non-discrimination provisions of this Agreement shall be considered a breach of this 
Agreement and subject the Contractor to penalties, to be determined by the Customer, including but not 
limited to the following:
i.
termination of this Agreement;
ii.
disqualification of the Contractor from being considered for or being awarded a Customer contract 
for a period of up to 3 years;
iii.
liquidated damages of $2,500 per violation; and/or
iv.
imposition of other appropriate contractual and civil remedies and sanctions, as determined by the 
Customer.
To effectuate the provisions of this Section, the Customer shall have the authority to offset all or any portion 
of the amount described in this Section against amounts due to Contractor under this Agreement or any 
other agreement between Contractor and Customer.
14.
Retention of Records; Right to Monitor and Audit
(a) Contractor shall maintain all required records relating to services provided under this Agreement for 
three (3) years after Customer makes final payment and all other pending matters are closed, and 
Contractor shall be subject to the examination and/or audit by Customer, a Federal grantor agency, and 
the State of California.
(b) Contractor shall comply with all program and fiscal reporting requirements set forth by applicable 
Federal, State, and local agencies and as required by Customer.
(c) Contractor agrees upon reasonable notice to provide to Customer, to any Federal or State department 
having monitoring or review authority, to Customer’s authorized representative, and/or to any of their 
respective audit agencies access to and the right to examine all records and documents necessary to 
determine compliance with relevant Federal, State, and local statutes, rules, and regulations, to determine 
compliance with this Agreement, and to evaluate the quality, appropriateness, and timeliness of services 
performed.
15.
Merger Clause; Amendments
This Agreement, including the Exhibits and Attachments attached to this Agreement and incorporated by 
reference, constitutes the sole Agreement of the parties to this Agreement and correctly states the rights, 
duties, and obligations of each party as of this document’s date.  In the event that any term, condition, 
258 of 734

--- page 259 ---
Page 8
provision, requirement, or specification set forth in the body of this Agreement conflicts with or is 
inconsistent with any term, condition, provision, requirement, or specification in any Exhibit and/or 
Attachment to this Agreement, the provisions of the body of the Agreement shall prevail.  Any prior 
agreement, promises, negotiations, or representations between the parties not expressly stated in this 
document are not binding.  All subsequent modifications or amendments shall be in writing and signed by 
the parties.
16.
Controlling Law; Venue
The validity of this Agreement and of its terms, the rights and duties of the parties under this Agreement, 
the interpretation of this Agreement, the performance of this Agreement, and any other dispute of any nature 
arising out of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without regard to its 
choice of law or conflict of law rules.  Any dispute arising out of this Agreement shall be venued either in 
the San Mateo County Superior Court or in the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
California.
17.
Notices
Any notice, request, demand, or other communication required or permitted under this Agreement shall be 
deemed to be properly given when both:  (1) transmitted via facsimile to the telephone number listed below 
or transmitted via email to the email address listed below; and (2) sent to the physical address listed below 
by either being deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or deposited for overnight delivery, 
charges prepaid, with an established overnight courier that provides a tracking number showing 
confirmation of receipt.
In the case of Customer, to:
Name/Title:
Rich Lee, Finance Director
Address:
330 W 20th Ave
Telephone:
650-522-7102
Facsimile:
650-522-7101
Email:
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
In the case of Contractor, to:
Name/Title:
Roberta J. Rosen, President
Address:
18302 Irvine Blvd, Ste. 200, Tustin, CA  92780-3464
Telephone:
714-573-5757
Facsimile:
714-573-0101
Email:
roberta@turbodata.com 
*
*
*
259 of 734

--- page 260 ---
Page 9
In witness of and in agreement with this Agreement’s terms, the parties, by their duly authorized 
representatives, affix their respective signatures:
FOR CUSTOMER:
CITY OF SAN MATEO
By:
Title: City Manager
Date:
Approved as to form:
By:
City Attorney, 
ATTEST:
By:
City Clerk 
FOR CONTRACTOR:
Turbo Data Systems, Inc.
By:
Roberta J. Rosen, President, Turbo Data Systems, Inc.
Date:
260 of 734

--- page 261 ---
Page 10
Exhibit A - Services
In consideration of the payments set forth in Exhibit B, Contractor shall provide the following services:
1. MOVING AND CRIMINAL CITATION PROCESSING SERVICES
A. Handheld Ticket Writer Interface - Contractor will provide automated import of electronic citations into 
Customer's database. Batch files will be uploaded within forty-eight (48) hours upon file transfer to the Customer’s 
records management system and San Mateo County Superior Court – Traffic. Data will be generated and pushed or 
pulled depending on Customer preference and technology department accommodation. Electronic transfer is 
available depending on the recipient County’s case management system and its ability to accept electronic files.
B. Electronic Moving and Criminal System Access – The Contractor will provide moving and criminal violation 
enforcement software with the Customer’s records management system. This will include the following:
1) Cloud hosting
2) Electronic Court Integration/Export
3) TR-10/tracking
4) Viewing of records including photos/signatures
5) Daily, monthly, shift summary reporting
6) Citation reprint for officer or public
7) Ongoing support, training, and maintenance for devices.
C. System and Document Storage - Contractor will retain all digital citations on the computer system for two (2) 
years and then remove.
D. Online Reporting - Contractor will provide regular daily, weekly and monthly reports in a format as agreed upon. 
Additional reports will be provided at no additional cost for operating, production and audit functions. Reports will 
be made available online via a secure web page and be available for Customer access no later than the thirtieth 
(30th) day of the following month, except when February is the following month, in which case this information will 
be available by the last day of February.
E. Online Inquiry Access and Support for Customer’s Staff - Contractor will provide access to the traffic and criminal 
citation database via a web page using a secure log-on procedure. Customer shall be provided access to their own 
database. A "NOTES" feature will allow authorized personnel to easily enter comments for a particular citation or 
license plate to be viewed by other inquiry function users. Contractor’s technical staff will provide support during 
normal business hours. Technical support will be provided for any communication or logon problems as well as 
immediate technical support when problems arise in the uploading, downloading and transferring of files.
F. Contract Requirements:
1) Privacy and Security of Customer Data - Contractor agrees to keep all Customer data private and secure
and will not share, sell, or otherwise access the Customer data for reasons other than the normal processing 
of moving and criminal citations or as otherwise required by law.
2) Notice of Security Breach – Contractor must immediately notify the Customer when it discovers that
there may have been a data security incident that has or may have resulted in compromise to the Customer 
for purposes of this Section, “immediately” is defined as within twenty-four hours of discovery. The 
Contractor must immediately take such actions as may be necessary to preserve forensic evidence and 
eliminate the cause of any suspected breach or security vulnerability and must promptly alert the Customer 
of any such circumstances, including information sufficient for the Customer to assess the nature and scope 
of any suspected data breach. In the event of an unauthorized disclosure of Customer data, the Contractor 
will be liable for paying for the following costs to remediate any such unauthorized disclosure:

The reasonable cost of providing notice of the breach to individuals affected by such breach;
261 of 734

--- page 262 ---
Page 11

The reasonable cost of providing required notice of the breach to government agencies, credit 
bureaus, and/or other required entities;

The cost of providing individuals affected by such breach with credit protection services designed 
to prevent fraud associated with identity theft crimes for a specific period not to exceed twelve 
(12) months; and any other service required by applicable by law.
The Contractor must provide any information and/or support to the Customer in issuing the actual 
notification and at the Customer’s sole discretion, the Contractor must provide actual notification if the 
Customer desires. This section will survive termination or expiration of this Agreement.
Confidentiality of all other data and materials - In addition to the data security and privacy requirements 
detailed above that apply to the Customer, any other Customer data or materials to which the Contractor 
has access or materials prepared by the Contractor during the course of this Agreement ("confidential 
information") shall be held in confidence by the Contractor, who shall exercise all reasonable precautions 
to prevent the disclosure of confidential information to anyone except the officers, employees and agents 
of the Contractor as necessary to accomplish the rendition of services set forth in Section 1 of this 
Agreement.
3) System Backups - All systems will be backed up daily to ensure safety of data in the event of a power 
outage or natural disaster. All backup data should be transferred and stored off-site for disaster recovery.
4) Vehicle Code Compliance - Contractor will comply with all requirements of the California Vehicle Code 
in regard to processing of citation records sent by the issuing agency during the entire term of this 
Agreement, including extensions if any.
5) Right to Audit - If Customer requests it, an auditor shall be hired to perform a financial and/or 
performance audit. The Customer shall pay the cost of the audit upon the written approval of auditor's cost.
6) Meeting Attendance - Contractor will be available to attend Customer meetings as needed at 
Contractor's own expense.
7) Transition to Next Contractor - In the event of a future change of vendor, Contractor agrees to fully 
cooperate in any transition. This shall include but not be limited to provision of data in an acceptable 
electronic format, provision of information as requested by the Customer to facilitate a future RFP process, 
and assistance with any and all transition processes necessary to provide for uninterrupted services to the 
Customer.
G. Software Disclosure - The Contractor may subscribe to various third-party software services for the purpose of 
automating input of various fields of information into the citation information while writing a ticket. The third-party 
software services may include but are not limited to Google Maps, Google location services GPS, LPR Services, and 
VIN lookups. The Contractor reserves the right, should these services terminate, to disable those services in the 
software at any time. These services are integrated in to the ticketPRO software for convenience and do not affect 
the issuance of citations. Manual entry of information into the citation is never affected by these third-party software 
services and is always available.
H. Termination - Termination fee of $4,000 per unit at outset, each month thereafter reduced $75 per month per 
unit.
I. Training - The Contractor will provide training for software and hardware. The Contractor will provide training 
manuals to the Customer. Training will include step-by-step manuals on how to issue citations and access back-end 
ticket reporting portals. Training, equipment initialization and setup will be provided by the Contractor and is 
included in the lease of the ticketwriters. The Contractor will provide RemoteConnect support for devices while in 
the field.
262 of 734

--- page 263 ---
Page 12
J. Optional Services:
1)
Provision of Automated Ticket Media - Contractor will provide paper ticket stock for electronic citations. 
See exhibits.
2)
Racial and Identity Profiling Act (RIPA) CA - The Contractor is currently working on a RIPA application that 
would be an optional service. If the RIPA option is exercised by the Customer, it will coincide with the length 
of this contract.
K. Software Development
If the Customer requires any additional software development for special projects and/or programs. The Customer 
will work with the Contractor on a scope of work to determine the specifications and requirements and the 
Contractor will provide the cost estimate and timeline. 
2.  PARKING CITATION PROCESSING SERVICES
A. Basic Processing - Contractor will enter manual citations and citation dispositions into Customer's database within 
two business days. The basic service includes database maintenance, daily system backups, toll-free phone number 
for the public, Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) with customized recorded information and citation lookup 
capability, www.pticket.com web-based Inquiry System for the public with customized content, Contractor's 
Customer Service Representatives (9:00a.m.- 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding holidays) to speak with 
the public regarding parking citation issues, ongoing Client support, and documentation and training for use of the 
Contractor-provided online system. Contractor will process correction notices and notify Customer of citations 
unable to be entered for any reason, (such as no violation code, unreadable license, etc.).
B. Handheld Ticket Writer Interface - Contractor will provide for automated import of electronic citations into 
Customer's database. Batch files will be uploaded immediately upon file transfer. Contractor will maintain and 
update the hot sheet or scofflaw files on a daily basis for Customer. Identifying vehicles which have accumulated 
five (5) or more outstanding citations in the combined San Mateo County contract area to upload into their handheld 
ticket writers. Contractor will provide electronic reports on a monthly basis. Contractor will work with Customer to 
implement any changes required for handheld ticket writer equipment.
C. Customer Service and Toll-Free Telephone Number - Contractor will provide a toll-free automated telephone 
number for inquiries and credit card payments. The toll-free telephone service will be available a minimum of 20 
hours per day, 7 days per week for the 50 United States and Canada, with the exception of backup time sometime 
between the hours of midnight and 4:00 a.m. A customized recorded voice response system in English and Spanish 
will be available to provide information for each pay or on how to pay and contest citations, registration violation 
information, and Customer address information. The automated telephone system will be capable of receiving a 
minimum of 20,000 incoming calls per month. Downtime for required maintenance will be between midnight and 
4:00 a.m. The automated voice response system will be capable of providing real-time data regarding the citation 
issue date, amount due, delinquent date and total amount due for each license plate when multiple citations are 
outstanding. The system will provide information about appealed citations and the results of the appeal. Contractor 
Customer Service Representatives (CSRs) will be available Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., excluding 
Customer recognized holidays. CSRs will be available to provide instructions and information on general parking 
policies and procedures, and administrative adjudication procedures for the Customer. At least one CSR will be 
available for Spanish translation during regular business hours Monday through Friday. Calls will be answered in six 
rings or less. In order to assist CSRs with non-English speakers, AT&T's Language Line (or similar) will be available at 
all times the CSRs are available and shall be employed to accomplish translations as required. The telephone system 
will provide up-to-date information on the status of a citation with the option to speak with a live representative 
during normal business hours. CSR's will provide customer service for the public in resolving parking citation 
questions of a non-judicial nature and research specific citation data when necessary. CSRs will be fully trained in all 
informational aspects of parking citation processing and related information specific to the Customer.
263 of 734

--- page 264 ---
Page 13
D. System and Document Storage - Contractor will retain all citations paid or dismissed on the computer system for 
three years and then be removed. Unpaid citations will be retained on the computer system for five (5) years and 
then be removed. Citation documents will be stored for two (2) years from date of issue and then shredded. Payment 
documents will be stored for two (2) years from the date of payment and then shredded.
E. Online Reporting - Contractor will provide regular daily, weekly and monthly reports in a format as agreed upon. 
Additional reports will be provided at no additional cost for operating, production and audit functions. Reports will 
be made available online via a secure web page and be available for Customer access no later than the thirtieth 
(30th) day of the following month, except when February is the following month, in which case this information will 
be available by the last day of February.
F. DMV Interface for Registered Owner Name Retrieval - Contractor will obtain names and addresses of registered
owners of cited vehicles from California DMV using online or manual access to registered owner information from 
California DMV when necessary. Upon return of registered owner information from DMV, Contractor will validate 
vehicle make. Contractor will also review DMV "No Hit" list to ensure that license plate and state have been entered 
correctly.
G. Notice Processing - Contractor will print the required Notice and mail to each registered owner whose name has 
been retrieved within 10 to 21 days after the citation has been issued. This includes second notices mailed for 
bounced checks, partial payments, and name or address changes. Contractor is required to send notices to lessees 
or renters of cited vehicles when provided with proof of a written lease or rental agreement. All postage, notice 
forms and envelopes will be provided by Contractor. All notices and letters will be formatted using custom #10 
window envelopes with the Customer's return address. The interior #9 return envelope will be customized with the 
Customer's payment address. Drive Away Notices will be mailed by first class mail to registered owners of vehicles 
that drive away from the officer at citation issuance time as required by the California Vehicle Code. Notices are 
mailed no later than 15 days from the date of the original citation to the registered owner of the vehicle. Delinquent 
Notices generated will be mailed at least once a week by first class mail to registered owners. Returned check notices 
will be mailed by first class mail to individuals immediately upon notification from the Customer that a check has 
been returned for non-payment. These notices will state the amount of original penalty, delinquent amount, and 
the appropriate returned check fee. Partial Payment Notices will be sent by first class mail to those who do not pay 
the full penalty amount. The notice will indicate the amount that was paid and the remainder that is due. The 
Contractor will generate Reminder Notices for unpaid accounts at a time frame acceptable to the Customer. 
Contractor will communicate with violators in a timely manner by mail in response to correspondence such as 
incomplete registration, citation, or payment information.
H. Additional Notices - Contractor will mail Other Correspondence as required for processing. Adjudication Letters 
will be mailed as required. DMV Hold Letters shall be mailed to registered owners on citations remaining open 18 
months after a DMV Hold is placed.
I. DMV Interface for Placing Registration Holds - Contractor will transmit a Notice of Delinquency to the California 
DMV for vehicles with California license plates after a Notice of Violation has been mailed to the registered owner 
and Contractor has not received notification that the citation has been cleared. This Notice of Delinquency will be 
transmitted to the California DMV within two (2) business days after the date specified by the Customer to be the 
DMV Date.
J. DMV Interface for Releasing Registration Holds - Contractor will transmit a Notice to the California DMV that a 
Notice of Delinquency has been cleared within two (2) business days after Contractor has received notification of 
clearance.
K. DMV Interface for Monthly Payment File - Contractor will receive payment files from DMV as available (currently
monthly) and update DMV transactions into Customer’s database, providing reporting for reconciliation purposes.
L. Document Exchange/Transfer – Customer will scan all manual tickets, appeals and other documents and 
electronically transmit to Contractor. TDS will provide an SFTP secure access for the transfer. Contractor will provide 
264 of 734

--- page 265 ---
Page 14
electronic reporting using ReportNet. Reports are available at any time for multiple years and months and can be 
printed and/or emailed as desired. 
M. Collection and Payment Processing - Contractor will provide the following collection and payment processing 
services for Customer:

Provide P.O. Box where payments, administrative review correspondence, and other documents are mailed 
within San Mateo County

Courier pickup from P.O. Box daily

Open all mail enter and process payments received by mail within one (1) business day, including opening 
all mail received, entering suspense date, verifying payment amounts, updating computer system, and 
make daily bank deposits directly into a Customer assigned bank account 

Process all correspondence within two (2) business days from the date of receipt

Sort and batch all correspondence by postmark date. Envelopes shall be kept on file with correspondence

Track rebilling on partial payments, non-payment of approved payment plans, checks returned for 
insufficient funds, vehicle change of ownership, re-entered citations for payment

File and store all source documents in an easily retrievable system

Respond to reasonable non-judicial public inquiries by phone or mail

Return questionable mail to Customer for decision

Provide reporting of bank deposits made for Customer within one day following the deposit

Provide toll-free number for citizen inquiries

Provide reports for bank statement reconciliation

Provide monthly Paid Citation Distribution Report for Customer to pay surcharges. Contractor will scan
checks and deposit parking funds (remote deposits) into Customer’s bank account. This method is safe,
secure and efficient. Checks never leave our facility. Check scanning hardware and software is provided
by Customer for its specific banking requirements.

Contractor does not charge for remote deposits; however, the financial institution may charge a fee,
which is the responsibility of the Customer.

Customers not set up for bank check scanning will incur additional courier fees.
N.  Out of State Citations - Contractor will process citations for non-California license plates by entering the citation 
information into the system database and report them along with all other citations on the database with the 
standard reports. If they become delinquent, requests for registered owner information will be sent to the 
appropriate out-of-state DMV. The Notice of Intent will be generated to the registered owner and the fine amount 
requested. Contractor will incur all costs for out of state name retrieval, including out-of-state DMV fees and charges. 
Contractor will receive payment from Customer based on the amount of revenues collected from out-of-state 
citations after the Notice of Intent has been issued.
O.  Public On-Line Access - www.pticket.com - Contractor will supply a web site for public use allowing the receiver
of a parking violation to enter the parking citation number or other identifying information in order to view parking 
citation data on line in real time. The website incorporates the highest level of data security and data privacy in the 
industry. Web-based data traffic, which includes names, addresses, parking ticket numbers or credit card numbers 
is encrypted using the highest level of industry standard encryption. Public access will include access to current 
citation status, including status of contested citations, due dates, original fine amount, late charges, information on 
how to contest a citation, how to show proof of correction for correctable violations, how to submit claims of 
indigence prior to a hearing, and addresses for paying in person or by mail. 
P. IVR and Web Payment Systems - Payment by Credit Card - Through the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) System, 
and through the pticket.com web site, Contractor will accept credit card payments via Visa, MasterCard and 
Discover. The systems authorize each transaction while the caller is on the phone or online. Payees are given an 
authorization number or email confirmation to confirm their charge. The IVR system and the pticket.com web 
payment system both automatically update the citation database with the payment immediately. Credit Card monies 
will be paid to a Contractor bank account and reconciled monthly. Customer will receive a credit card post log which 
shows in detail which citations were paid and for what amount, along with the deposit slip from the bank or the ACH 
265 of 734

--- page 266 ---
Page 15
deposit email showing that these funds have been deposited into the Customer's account. Should there be any 
charge backs to a merchant account, the funds are pulled directly from the Contractor master account and the 
citation will be reactivated, much like a bounced check. The violator will be sent a notice and will then proceed to 
DMV hold. Contractor will provide all services regarding reconciliation, reactivation of charge backs, etc. The 
Customer will not be involved in the daily processing.
Q. Administrative Adjudication Processing - Contractor will provide for the processing of requests for contesting 
citations, allowing for Customer processing of administrative reviews, tracking and monitoring all relevant dates on 
an automated system, mailing timely notification to respondents regarding the status of their claims, and scheduling 
of administrative hearings. All Administrative Adjudication information entered into the system will be done in real 
time and linked to existing database information to ensure proper tracking of relevant dates, mailing names and 
addresses and other pertinent information. Administrative Review requests will be entered within two (2) business 
days of receipt. Adjudication documents will be stored for two (2) years from their activity date and then shredded. 
Contractor will notify Customer of citations that have been found Not Liable that need refunds, so the Customer can 
issue the refund. Contractor will schedule combined San Mateo County Hearings up to three (3) weeks in advance, 
according to citizen selection by location and day of week in one of the San Mateo County locations. Hearings may 
be scheduled manually if requested. Contractor will print and mail (by first class mail) customized hearing notification 
letters to appellant and respond to inquiries from Customer and the public regarding date of hearing, mailing date, 
location of hearing and directions to hearing location. Contractor will provide the capability to use customized text, 
such as liable reason codes, in letters for Customer and re-send letters should changes or reschedules occur. 
Contractor agrees to provide all information required under the Vehicle Code in a timely manner at no additional 
cost to the Customer should an appeal be made to the Superior Court.
R. Payment Plan – The Contractor will have a payment plan system in place to comply with all legislation. The plan 
will allow for waivers when necessary for indigent and non-indigent individuals. Plan requests will be submitted to 
the Customer for review/approval/denial. The Contractor will mail correspondence to let the applicant know the 
status of their payment plan application and other details. Payment Plans allow the agency to waive fees for indigent 
persons, adjust the length of the plan and set minimum payments due. If a plan defaults prior to full payment, the 
system automatically resumes the citation process (DMV, Collections, etc.). The Contractor will provide customized 
agency specific information for indigent payment plans on pticket.com.
S. Paperless Appeals (eAppealsPRO & Scanning) - Contractor will provide online appeal capability for the public to 
appeal their citations online. Contractor will provide the scanning of all mailed-in appeal documents and electronic 
storage of those documents. Contractor will provide an online application to access the appeals, which will be 
searchable and sortable. Contractor will keep an electronic history of processed appeals for at least two years.
T. Independent Hearing Examiner Services - Contractor will contract with Independent Third-Party Hearing 
Examiners to provide fair and impartial hearings for Customer and the public. Contractor will provide a monthly 
report of hearing results by citation number. The Independent Third-Party Hearing Examiners will meet all training, 
education and other requirements specified in the California Vehicle Code which apply to the performance of 
administrative hearings.
U. Online Inquiry Access and Support for Customer’s Staff - Contractor will provide access to the parking citation 
database via a web page using a secure log-on procedure. This access includes citation inquiry by citation number, 
license plate number, full or partial name and VIN (includes citation status, history status, administrative 
adjudication status, notes, etc.), the ability to enter and view NOTES, post dismissals/payments, view daily deposits 
made at Contractor's facility and view daily file transfers sent from the handheld ticket writer software and received 
at Contractor's facility. A "NOTES" feature will allow authorized personnel to easily enter comments for a particular 
citation or license plate to be viewed by other inquiry function users. Contractor’s technical staff will provide support 
during normal business hours. Technical support will be provided for any communication or logon problems as well 
as immediate technical support when problems arise in the uploading, downloading and transferring of files.
V. ICS Collection Service - Special Collections - Contractor will transfer outstanding citations (DMV No-Holds, DMV 
Transfer of Ownership Releases, Non-California plates, citations delinquent over 90 days) and any other citations 
266 of 734

--- page 267 ---
Page 16
deemed as delinquent citations by Customer into the ICS system on a weekly basis. Up to two collection letters will 
be mailed for each ICS account requesting payment. Payments will be processed daily and deposited to the 
Customer's regular citation processing bank account. The Contractor's Customer Service Center will handle all ICS 
related calls through a special toll-free number dedicated to ICS accounts. Monthly reporting will show all accounts 
moved to the ICS system and all payments received due to ICS efforts.
W. Franchise Tax Board Offset Program - Contractor will combine citations by license number for total amount due, 
eliminate corporate names, retrieve SSN's by name from a 3rd party, combine accounts by SSN, mail required FTB 
letters in advance of placing accounts at FTB, process payments generated by the FTB process, receive phone calls 
generated by the FTB process, provide all systems and operational procedures required for the FTB process. and 
provide complete reporting and reconciliation for the FTB process. Customer will be required to complete required 
FTB paperwork and forms (with Contractor's assistance), establish a SWIFT account with the FTB, and provide 
whatever assistance may be required to work with the FTB regarding the FTB process.
X. Contract Requirements

Privacy and Security of Customer Data- Contractor agrees to keep all Customer data private and secure and 
will not share, sell, or otherwise access the Customer data for reasons other than the normal processing of 
parking citations or as otherwise required by law.

Notice of Security Breach – Contractor must immediately notify the Customer when it discovers that there 
may have been a data security incident that has or may have resulted in compromise to the Customer for 
purposes of this Section, “immediately” is defined as within twenty-four hours of discovery. The Contractor 
must immediately take such actions as may be necessary to preserve forensic evidence and eliminate the 
cause of any suspected breach or security vulnerability and must promptly alert the Customer of any such 
circumstances, including information sufficient for the Customer to assess the nature and scope of any 
suspected data breach. In the event of an unauthorized disclosure of the Customer, the Contractor will be 
liable for paying for the following costs to remediate any such unauthorized disclosure:

The reasonable cost of providing notice of the breach to individuals affected by such breach;

The reasonable cost of providing required notice of the breach to government agencies, credit 
bureaus, and/or other required entities;

The cost of providing individuals affected by such breach with credit protection services designed 
to prevent fraud associated with identity theft crimes for a specific period not to exceed 12 
months; and any other service required by applicable by law.
The Contractor must provide any information and/or support to the Customer in issuing the actual notification and
at the Customer’s sole discretion, the Contractor must provide actual notification if the Customer desires. This 
section will survive termination or expiration of this Agreement.
Confidentiality of all other data and materials - In addition to the data security and privacy requirements detailed 
above that apply to the Customer, any other Customer data or materials to which the Contractor has access or 
materials prepared by the Contractor during the course of this Agreement ("confidential information") shall be held 
in confidence by the Contractor, who shall exercise all reasonable precautions to prevent the disclosure of 
confidential information to anyone except the officers, employees and agents of the Contractor as necessary to 
accomplish the rendition of services set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement.

System Backups - All systems will be backed up daily to ensure safety of data in the event of a power outage 
or natural disaster. All backup data should be transferred and stored off-site for disaster recovery.

Subcontracting - No portion of the Agreement, other than the independent administrative hearings, shall 
be permitted to be subcontracted to another private or public agency without express written approval 
from the Customer. Contractor must disclose the nature of work being subcontracted, and the name of the 
private or public agency which shall perform the work.
267 of 734

--- page 268 ---
Page 17

Vehicle Code Compliance - Contractor will comply with all requirements of the California Vehicle Code in 
regard to processing and adjudication of citation records sent by the issuing agency during the entire term 
of this Agreement, including extensions if any.

Right to Audit - If Customer requests it, an auditor shall be hired to perform a financial and/or performance 
audit. The Customer shall pay the cost of the audit upon the written approval of auditor's cost.

Meeting Attendance - Contractor will be available to attend Customer meetings as needed at Contractor's 
own expense.

Transition to Next Contractor - In the event of a future change of vendor, Contractor agrees to fully 
cooperate in any transition. This shall include but not be limited to provision of data in an acceptable 
electronic format, provision of information as requested by the Customer to facilitate a future RFP process, 
and assistance with any and all transition processes necessary to provide for uninterrupted services to the 
Customer.
Y. Software Disclosure - The Contractor may subscribe to various third-party software services for the purpose of 
automating input of various fields of information into the citation information while writing a ticket. The third-party 
software services may include but are not limited to Google Maps, Google location services GPS, LPR Services, and 
VIN lookups. The Contractor reserves the right, should these services terminate, to disable those services in the 
software at any time. These services are integrated in to the ticketPRO software for convenience and do not affect 
the issuance of citations. Manual entry of information into the citation is never affected by these third-party software 
services and is always available.
Z. Termination - Termination fee of $950 per unit at the outset, and each subsequent month reduced $18 per 
month per unit. (ticketPRO Magic two-piece device only)
AA. Optional Services:
1)
Interfacing with Coplink 
2)
Provision of Automated Ticket Media - Contractor will provide paper ticket stock for electronic 
citations. See exhibits.
3)
Racial and Identity Profiling Act (RIPA) CA - The Contractor is currently working on a RIPA 
application that would be an optional service. If the RIPA option is exercised by the Customer, it 
will coincide with the length of this contract.
AB. Training - The Contractor will provide training for software and hardware. The Contractor will provide training 
manuals to the Customer. Training will include step-by-step manuals on how to issue citations and access back-end 
ticket portals. Training, equipment initialization and setup will be provided by the Contractor and is included in the 
lease of the ticketwriters. The Contractor will provide RemoteConnect support for devices while in the field.
AC. Software Development - If the Customer requires any additional software development for special projects 
and/or programs. The Customer will work with the Contractor on a scope of work to determine the specifications 
and requirements and the Contractor will provide the cost estimate and timeline.
3. EQUIPMENT LEASING SERVICES
A. Leasing Options - Customer may add devices at any time throughout the life of the contract for the 
leased price. If a new device is leased, the new device’s lease will rollover to the next contract with the 
Contractor with no termination penalties. If the Customer does not exercise the option to renew the 
contract with the Contractor, the Customer agrees to pay the termination fees:
1)
ticketPRO Magic (parking citations): $950 per unit at the outset, and each subsequent month 
reduced $18 per month per unit.
268 of 734

--- page 269 ---
Page 18
2)
ticketPRO nFORCER All-in-One (moving citations): $4,000 per unit at the outset, and each 
subsequent month reduced $75 per month per unit.
B. Warranties - The Contractor will provide to the Customer the full benefit of any warranties provided by 
the manufacturers of the equipment, parts, materials, hardware, firmware, and software provided under 
this Agreement.
1)
The Contractor will be responsible for the maintenance and repair of the equipment under normal 
wear and tear. In the event that any hardware stops functioning, Customer staff should report the 
issue to ticketPRO support and the Contractor will replace or repair the malfunctioning hardware.
2)
The Contractor will provide a parts and repairs fee schedule for anything not included in the above 
warranties to the Customer for the term of the contract.
3)
Contractor will not be responsible for Lost, Stolen or Damaged Devices, outside of normal wear 
and tear.
C. Upgrades - The Contractor must substitute the hardware during the Lease Term if it is mutually agreed 
upon by both parties. The upgraded supported devices will provide better improved functionality.
D. Additional Supplies Not Included in Lease

Replacement Batteries, AC Adapters and Accessories: The Contractor will make replacement 
batteries, AC adapters or charging stations and accessories available to the Customer for purchase 
at then-current prices.

Citations and Envelopes: The lease does not include citation forms or envelopes, which the 
Contractor will provide to the Customer at then-current prices, which will vary by quantities 
ordered. Citations are water and heat resistant poly-thermal, and standard and custom designs 
are available. Envelopes are preprinted with the payment address and online payment options.

Replacements for Damaged/Lost/Stolen hardware:
o
Contractor will provide fully configured replacement ticketPRO Magic Ticketwriters for 
$950 each (parking)
o
Contractor will provide fully configured replacement ticketPRO nFORCER Ticketwriters for 
$4,000 each (traffic)

Return of hardware: At the end of the lease term, all hardware will be returned to Contractor in 
good working order. If equipment is not returned, the lease will revert to a month-to-month lease 
with 30 days' notice required for discontinuation of that lease.
269 of 734

--- page 270 ---
Page 19
EXHIBIT B
Payments & Rates
In consideration of the services provided by Contractor described in Exhibit A and subject to the terms of the 
Agreement, Customer shall pay Contractor based on the following fee schedule and terms:
1.
TRAFFIC/MOVING CITATION SERVICES AND FEES
A. Equipment Leasing Fees: Customer will pay Contractor according to the following rates and terms:
   ticketPRO nFORCER-II All-in-One
Traffic Equipment Leases
(Includes all items listed in Purchase Option)
nFORCER-II
Print
nFORCER-II
Scan
nFORCER-II 
ID
nFORCER-II
ID/Scan
nFORCER-II 5 Year Lease- 
Traffic Ticket Writers (per unit/month)
$150.00
$175.00
$200.00
$225.00
nFORCER-II Model options: All nFORCER-II units include an AC Adapter. Accessories are optional and are listed in 
section G below. All models can be used for Parking, Traffic and Code enforcement. Below is a recommendation 
based on typical use: 
 
Model
Description
Recommended use
nFORCER-II Print
Includes a built-in printer
PARKING enforcement only
nFORCER-II Scan
Includes a built-in printer and a Laser Barcode 
Scanner for scanning DLs, IDs, VIN, etc.
PARKING & Traffic enforcement
nFORCER-II ID
Includes a built-in printer and a Biometric finger 
scanner
Traffic enforcement
nFORCER-II ID/Scan
Includes a built-in printer, Laser Barcode scanner and 
a Biometric Finger scanner
Traffic enforcement
B. Device Features: Lease agreement will include the following:
1)
ticketPRO nFORCER all-in-one
2)
Bar code Laser Scanner (optional)
3)
Built-in Biometric Finger Scanner (optional)
4)
ticketPRO Magic Software and License 
5)
ticketPRO Magic Software Setup/Configuration: Initial setup and installation of software with 
Customer specific information - Includes 1-day training
6)
ticketPRO Magic Software Maintenance and Support: Remote servicing and updates, user 
support including RemoteConnect assistance, and email support
7)
Smartphone with Managed 4G LTE data plan
8)
High-Definition (HD) display
9)
Android OS
10) GPS
11) High Resolution Camera
12) IP65 Rated
13) Internal and Hot Swappable Battery
14) Integrated 3” Thermal Printer
270 of 734

--- page 271 ---
Page 20
C. Service Fees: The following fees will be charged to the Customer by the Contractor as these items are processed. 
A Single Site or Multiple Site Access/Hosting Fee is required for each Agency utilizing the Traffic system. Costs will 
be determined by the quantity processed and will be invoiced to the Customer monthly.
Fee
Rate
Electronic Traffic Citation Processing Fee- 
Customer orders citation rolls
$1.50 per citation
Electronic Traffic Citation Processing Fee- 
Turbo Data provides citation rolls at no extra cost
$1.80 per citation
Traffic Processing System Access/Hosting Fee. 
Single site; includes services below
$300.00 per month
Traffic Processing System Access/Hosting Fee.
Multiple sites; includes services below
$600.00 per month
  Hosting Service:

Cloud hosting

Electronic Court Integration, export, and maintenance

Electronic TR-100 Corrections

Support for records personnel

Security Account management and maintenance

Web access for viewing records including photos, signatures and biometric images

Daily/Monthly shift summary reporting

Citation copy reprint for officer and public

Ongoing back-office support and enhancements
D. Additional Lease Options for Traffic/Moving Devices
Traffic Equipment Leases
(Includes all items listed in Purchase Option)
nFORCER-II
Print
nFORCER-II
Scan
nFORCER-II 
ID
nFORCER-II
ID/Scan
nFORCER-II 5 Year Lease- 
Traffic Ticket Writers (per unit/month)
$150.00
$175.00
$200.00
$225.00
nFORCER-II 4 Year Lease- 
Traffic Ticket Writers (per unit/month)
$170.00
$200.00
$230.00
$260.00
nFORCER-II 3 Year Lease- 
Traffic Ticket Writers (per unit/month)
$200.00
$240.00
$280.00
$320.00
nFORCER-II 2 Year Lease- 
Traffic Ticket Writers (per unit/month)
$255.00
$320.00
$380.00
$440.00
nFORCER-II 1 Year Lease- 
Traffic Ticket Writers (per unit/month)
$430.00
$555.00
$680.00
$800.00
E. Purchase Options for Traffic/Moving Devices
Traffic Equipment Purchase
nFORCER-II
Print
nFORCER-II
Scan
nFORCER-II 
ID
nFORCER-II
ID/Scan
nFORCER-II Purchase- Traffic writers (Each)
$2,700.00
$3,400.00
$3,850.00
$4,500.00
Support/Maintenance/4G Data Plan 
Required for each nFORCER purchased 
$80.00 per month for all options
Configuration & Setup (each)
Waived (normally $100.00)
Training
Included
271 of 734

--- page 272 ---
Page 21
F. Lease to Purchase Option for Traffic/Moving Devices
The Customer will have the option to purchase any leased Traffic/Moving device throughout the contract. The price 
for the purchase would be $94/unit/month left on the lease. 
For example, 18 months into the 60-month contract, the Customer decides to purchase the nFORCER the cost would 
be: $94 X 42 months or $3,948.   $80 per month Communications and Support Fee required for service.
G. Accessories and Extended Warranty
nFORCER-II accessories and options
Item
Description
Price
1
Single Dock with power supply
$
219.00
2
Single Dock without power supply 
(used with quad base)
$
195.00
3
Quad Dock base only
$
365.00
4
Quad Dock base with docks
$ 1,147.00
5
Hot swap Battery
$
138.00
6
Carry case
$
39.00
7
USB Car charger
$
50.00
8
USB AC Adapter
$
65.00
9
Hand Strap
$
24.00
10
Top Strap
$
24.00
11.
High-Capacity Hot Swap Battery
$
180.00
Five (5) Year extended Manufacturer Warranty

Free from defects in materials and workmanship, under normal intended use

10 business day turnaround for repairs

Consumables not covered
H. Upgrades - Through the life of the contract, if the equipment being leased to the Customer becomes obsolete or
no longer supported by the Contractor, the Contractor shall upgrade the leased equipment to a supported product
similar or exceeding the current leased item at no cost to the Customer.
272 of 734

--- page 273 ---
Page 22
2. PARKING CITATION SERVICES AND FEES
A. Equipment Leasing Fees - Customer will pay Contractor according to the following rates and terms.
Description
Rate
Term
ticketPRO Magic two-piece device
$87 per month per unit
5 years
B. Service Fees: The following fees will be charged to the Customer by the Contractor as these items are processed. 
Costs will be determined by the quantity processed and will be invoiced to the Customer monthly.
Fee
Rate
  Electronic Parking Citation Processing Fee
$.40 per citation
Electronic Parking Citation Processing Fee
Turbo Data provides citation rolls (2 inches) at no extra cost
$.50 per citation
Electronic Parking Citation Processing Fee
Turbo Data  provides citation rolls (3 inches) at no extra cost
$.55 per citation
Manual Parking Citation Processing
$.70 per citation
Notice Processing
$.76 per citation
Final Notice Letters
$.76 per letter
DMV Hold Letters
$.76 per letter
Administrative Adjudication - per appeal
$1.50 per appeal
Adjudication Letters-per letter
$.76 per letter
Administrative Hearings
$25.00 per hearing
Out of State Processing - % of revenue collected
25%
Collections for Citations delinquent over 90 days (ICS)
25%
Franchise Tax Board Processing - % of revenue collected
25%
Payment Plans Entered
$5.00 per plan
Payment Plans Letters Mailed
$0.76 per letter
Banking Services Options- Scan Checks directly into Agency Bank Account
No Charge
Banking Services Options- Courier Daily Bank Deposit Service (Monthly Fee)
$200.00
Postal Rate Increase Offset - If postal rates increase during the term of this agreement notice, letter fees 
to TDS shall be raised immediately to offset the effect of the postage rate increase.
273 of 734

--- page 274 ---
Page 23
CITY OF SAN MATEO TICKETER OPTIONS – July 1, 2021
3. TRAFFIC/MOVING CITATION EQUIPMENT  
Purchase Cost
Quantity
Cost
nFORCER-II Print
$2,700
nFORCER-II Scan
30
$3,400
nFORCER-II ID
$3,850
nFORCER-II ID/Scan
$4,500
All Purchases require $80 per month per unit Support/Maintenance/Communications Fee
Lease Cost per Month – 5 years
Quantity
Cost
nFORCER-II Print
$150
nFORCER-II Scan
$175
nFORCER-II ID
$200
nFORCER-II ID/Scan
$225
All Leases include the monthly Support/Maintenance/Communications Fee
4. PARKING CITATION EQUIPMENT
Purchase Cost
Quantity
Cost
ticketPRO Magic (2 piece)
$950
All Purchases require $80 per month per unit Support/Maintenance/Communications Fee
Lease Cost per Month – 5 years
Quantity
Cost
ticketPRO Magic (2 piece)
$87
All Leases include the monthly Support/Maintenance/Communications Fee
5. TICKET ROLL STOCK for CITATION EQUIPMENT
TRAFFIC CITATIONS
For Traffic Citations, please indicate if you will order citation rolls on your own or if you will pay a 
per citation fee for the option that includes ticket rolls where Turbo Data provides citation rolls.
TRAFFIC CITATIONS
YES/NO
Cost
Electronic Traffic Citation Processing Fee
  Customer orders citation rolls
Yes
$1.50 per citation
Electronic Traffic Citation Processing Fee
  Turbo Data provides citation rolls at no extra cost
$1.80 per citation
PARKING CITATIONS
For Parking Citations, please indicate if you will order citation rolls on your own or if you will pay a 
per citation fee for the option that includes ticket rolls where Turbo Data provides citation rolls.
PARKING CITATIONS
YES/NO
Cost
Electronic Parking Citation Processing Fee
  Customer orders citation rolls
$0.40 per citation
Electronic Traffic Citation Processing Fee- 
  Turbo Data provides citation rolls (2 inches) at no extra cost
$0.50 per citation
Electronic Parking Citation Processing Fee
Turbo Data provides citation rolls (3 inches) at no extra cost
$0.55 per citation
274 of 734

--- page 275 ---
Page 24
6. INVOICING PROCEDURES
A.
Customer shall pay Contractor upon receipt of an invoice for services rendered. Each invoice must 
include the following information at a minimum.
• Agreement Number
• Time period covered
• Detailed statement of services/work completed for the invoiced amount
B.
Contractor shall prepare and submit an invoice for payment of services monthly. Payments shall be 
made within thirty (30) days from the date of applicable undisputed invoice
275 of 734

--- page 276 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4416
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 7, 2021 
SUBJECT:
25th Avenue Grade Separation Project and Delaware Street Relief Sewer Project – Interagency Amendment and 
Agreements
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an Amendment to the Cooperative Agreement, a License Agreement in the amount of $16,500, and a Service 
Agreement in the estimated amount of $133,049 between the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, San Mateo County 
Transit District, and the City of San Mateo; and authorize the Mayor to execute the amendment and agreements in 
substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The Basins 2 & 3 Collection System Improvements (Basins 2 & 3) is part of the Clean Water Program and provide important 
sewer improvements to increase capacity for wet weather flows in several areas throughout the City. The Delaware Street 
Relief Sewer Project (Sewer Project) is part of Basins 2 & 3 and is currently in the final design phase. The Sewer Project 
includes a new sewer pipe and provides capacity to prevent sanitary sewer overflows. 
Originally, this Sewer Project was planned to be constructed on Delaware Street, from south of 25th Avenue to the 
intersection of Delaware Street and Pacific Boulevard. However, the 25th Avenue Grade Separation Project (Grade 
Separation) required the relocation of a Pacific Gas and Electric high-pressure gas main from the Peninsula Corridor Joint 
Powers Board (JPB) right-of-way to within the Delaware Street roadway. The gas main relocation created constraints for 
the future relief sewer to be built within Delaware Street, so staff developed a design within the eastern portion of the 
JPB’s right-of-way between 31st and 25th Avenues. By constructing within the JPB’s right-of-way, the City avoids safety 
concerns associated with a complicated construction effort next to the high-pressure gas main on Delaware Street. 
Additionally, this location avoids the temporary impacts to the community and businesses associated with construction on 
Delaware Street.
Staff continues to coordinate with the JPB to finalize the Sewer Project design and minimize disruptions to operations and 
the ongoing 25th Avenue Grade Separation Project construction. To reduce overall costs to both projects and impacts to 
operations, some surface improvements originally part of the Grade Separation Project have been coordinated to be built 
as part of the Sewer Project. These surface improvements include sidewalks, bioswales, and other surface improvements 
that are generally along the surface of the sewer alignment. The estimated cost of these surface improvements is 
$500,000. The costs of the Sewer Project, along with these surface improvements, will be funded by the City.
A Cooperative Agreement between the City and JPB was approved by City Council on March 20, 2017. This agreement 
established the Grade Separation Project costs and funding responsibilities between the San Mateo County Transit 
Authority for the JPB and the City. Since the City will be completing $500,000 surface improvements as part of the Sewer 
Project and will be funding it with City funds, the City’s funding responsibility to the Grade Separation Project is being 
276 of 734

--- page 277 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
reduced by $500,000. Amendment No. 1 (Attachment 1) to the Cooperative Agreement captures this reduction, and also 
memorializes construction cost increases and responsibilities associated with the Grade Separation Project.
The JPB requires two separate agreements to proceed with finalizing the Sewer Project design, constructing the Sewer 
Project, and operating and maintaining the sewer infrastructure: 
• License Agreement (Attachment 2) – Establishes a license to construct, operate, and maintain the City’s sewer facilities in 
the JPB right-of-way. 
• Service Agreement (Attachment 3) – Establishes a scope and fee for the JPB to review the City’s Sewer Project design 
documents and provide limited oversight and coordination during construction. 
The Sewer Project is anticipated to start construction in Summer 2021.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for Amendment No. 1 and the License and Service Agreements are available in the respective project accounts. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This project is 
subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of which are 
included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that was 
prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment 
Att 2 – License Agreement
Att 3 – Service Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
(Court Harris, Project Manager – Jacobs)
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
Azalea Mitch, Public Works Director
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
277 of 734

--- page 278 ---
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board/City of San Mateo 
Amend. No. 1 to 25th Avenue Grade Separation 
Cooperative Agreement 
1 of 5 
17419189.1  
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT 
FOR FUNDING CONSTRUCTION OF THE GRADE SEPARATION AND RAIL 
REALIGNMENT PROJECT AT 25th AVENUE IN SAN MATEO 
 
 
This Amendment No.1 to Cooperative Agreement for Funding Construction of the 
Grade Separation and Rail Realignment Project at 25th Avenue in San Mateo (Amendment) is 
entered into on 
                , 2021 (Effective Date) between the Peninsula Corridor Joint 
Powers Board (JPB) and the City of San Mateo (City), each of which is referred to herein 
individually as “Party” and jointly as “Parties.” 
 
RECITALS 
 
WHEREAS, the JPB is a public agency existing under the laws of the State of California 
which owns the railroad right-of-way on the corridor between San Francisco and San Jose, 
California and operates commuter rail passenger service (Caltrain) along that corridor and to the 
south, between San Francisco and Gilroy; and 
 
WHEREAS, City is a municipal corporation in the State of California; and 
 
WHEREAS, the JPB is in the process of constructing the 25th Avenue Grade Separation 
and Rail Realignment Project (Project), located within the City and has agreed to perform or 
contract for the performance of all services, and provide all materials required, for completion 
of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the JPB will own and maintain all improvements and other facilities 
constructed as part of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Parties have secured $84 million in California High Speed Rail 
Authority (CHSRA) funds appropriated for this Project, and the City is applying for $10 million 
in Streets and Highway Code Section 190 Grade Separation funds from the California 
Department of Transportation (Caltrans) to reimburse the JPB for a portion of the Project costs; 
and 
 
WHEREAS, to facilitate the completion of the Project, City and the JPB have entered 
into a memorandum of understanding with the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (TA) 
(referred to herein as "3-Party MOU" and dated July 11, 2014) for the Preliminary Engineering / 
Environmental (PE/ENV) phase of work; and 
 
WHEREAS, the 3-Party MOU has subsequently been amended to address the Final 
Design and Right of Way (PS&E and ROW) and Construction phases of work to detail the 
parties' respective roles and responsibilities related to Project funding; and 
 
WHEREAS, the JPB and City will negotiate and enter into a separate agreement which 
will govern the construction and maintenance of the Project (C&M Agreement); and 
 
WHEREAS, on March 21, 2017, the JPB and City entered into that certain "Cooperative 
Agreement for the 25th Avenue Grade Separation" (Agreement) to further define certain roles and 
responsibilities as between the Parties related to the Project management and funding through this 
278 of 734

--- page 279 ---
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board/City of San Mateo 
Amend. No. 1 to 25th Avenue Grade Separation 
Cooperative Agreement 
2 of 5 
17419189.1  
 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City is undertaking a project to construct a 30" sewer line on JPB 
property involved in the Project, the rights for which will be the subject separate agreements, and 
the JPB and City wish to revise the payment terms of the Agreement to reflect a credit to the City 
to compensate it for undertaking additional work, which shall consist of the construction of 
improvements (the "Improvements"), which include but are not limited to a bioswale and sidewalk 
generally along the surface of the sewer alignment, and to provide for the terms and conditions for 
the City to perform such work; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City shall construct the Improvements for the JPB to own and maintain; 
and 
 
WHEREAS, the 30” sewer line will be owned and maintained by the City. 
 
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual benefits and obligations herein, the 
JPB and City agree as follows: 
 
1. 
AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2: PROJECT COST AND FUNDING. 
 
The "Scope of Work Budget/Scope of Funding Table" in Section 2.a. of the 
Agreement is revised as shown below: 
 
Scope of Work Budget/Scope of Funding Table 
 
 
TA Responsibility 
(for the JPB) 
City Responsibility 
Total 
Phase 
Measure A Funding City Local Funds 
CHSRA 
Section 190 
 
Preliminary Engineering 
/Environmental Review 
(PE/ENV)1 
$3.7 Million 
$1 Million 
 
 
$4.7 Million 
Final Design (PSE/ROW) 
$5 Million 
$5 Million 
 
 
$10 Million 
Right-of-Way 
(ROW)/Construction2 
$65.3 89.1 Million 
$6 7.6 Million 
$84 Million 
$10 Million 
$190.7 Million 
Total3 
$74 97.8 Million 
$1213.6 Million $84 Million 
$10 Million 
$205.4 Million 
Footnotes 
 
1) $200,000 of the City's $1 million match from the PE/ENV phase was from in-kind staff 
support.  
 
2) City costs for in-kind staff support during the ROW/Construction phase are anticipated to 
be $225,000 (this includes left over funding rolled over from the PE/ENV phase) and may 
be subject to change during the course of the Project upon mutual agreement by the Parties' 
authorized representatives. On January 4, 2021 the City increased its in-kind staff support 
by another $100,000, this was part of the additional $2.1M the City contributed from local 
funds. This increased the total in-kind staff support to $325,000.  
 
279 of 734

--- page 280 ---
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board/City of San Mateo 
Amend. No. 1 to 25th Avenue Grade Separation 
Cooperative Agreement 
3 of 5 
17419189.1  
 
3) The Project also requires the conveyance of approximately 3.7 acres of TA-owned real 
property to the JPB for Caltrain access and the street connection at 28th Avenue.  An 
independent third- party has valued the subject properties at $19.97 million. The form and 
documentation of property conveyance, along with the price and terms of any appropriate 
compensation, is still under discussion. 
 
4) City responsibility for Construction is reduced by $500,000 as a result of City provision of 
in-kind contribution to the Project by constructing Improvements, as described in Section 
2 of this Amendment, to be constructed as part of City's separate construction project to 
install a 30" sewer line on JPB property pursuant to a separate agreement. Amounts to be 
paid by the City pursuant to the License Agreement and any related Service Agreement 
are unrelated to this monetary arrangement.   
 
2. 
AMENDMENT TO SECTION 3: RESPONSIBILITIES. 
 
a. 
Section 3.a of the Agreement is revised by adding the following text at the 
end of that provision: 
 
viii. 
Own and maintain the bioswale, retaining wall, and sidewalk 
improvements generally along the surface of the City sewer 
alignment as described in Exhibit A, attached hereto and 
incorporated herein by this reference, using its own funds. 
 
b. 
Section 3.b of the Agreement is revised by adding the following text at the 
end of that provision: 
 
vi. 
Construct bioswale, retaining wall, and sidewalk improvements 
generally along the surface of the City sewer alignment as described 
in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this 
reference, using its own funds. 
 
vii. 
Own and maintain the sewer improvements (pipes and manholes) 
using its own funds. 
 
3. 
MISCELLANEOUS. 
 
a. 
Counterparts.  This Amendment may be executed in counterparts. 
 
b. 
Entire Agreement.  This Amendment, the Agreement and the 3-Party MOU 
constitute the entire agreement between the Parties pertaining to the subject 
matter contained herein and supersede all prior or contemporaneous 
agreements, representations and understandings of the Parties relative 
thereto.  Except as specifically amended by this Amendment, the terms and 
conditions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. The 
Parties will enter into separate agreements regarding the City's construction 
of the 30" sewer line on JPB property. 
 
c. 
Headings.  The subject headings of the articles and paragraphs in this 
Agreement are included for convenience only and do not affect the 
280 of 734

--- page 281 ---
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board/City of San Mateo 
Amend. No. 1 to 25th Avenue Grade Separation 
Cooperative Agreement 
4 of 5 
17419189.1  
 
construction or interpretation of any of its provisions. 
 
d. 
Modifications.  This Agreement may only be modified in a writing executed 
by both Parties. 
 
e. 
Severability. If any portion of this Agreement is held by a court of competent 
jurisdiction to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, all remaining portions of the 
Agreement, or the application thereof, will remain in full force and effect. 
 
f. 
Warranty of Authority to Execute Agreement. Each Party to this Agreement 
represents and warrants that each person whose signature appears hereon is 
authorized and has the full authority to execute this Agreement on behalf of 
the entity that is a Party to this Agreement. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, City and the JPB have entered into this Agreement as of 
the date first noted above 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
By: 
 
 
 
Name: Eric Rodriguez  
Its:   Mayor  
Approved as to Form: 
 
 
 
Legal Counsel for the City 
 
 
PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD 
 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
Name: Michelle Bouchard 
Its:  Interim Executive Director  
Attest: 
 
 
 
 
JPB Secretary  
281 of 734

--- page 282 ---
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board/City of San Mateo 
Amend. No. 1 to 25th Avenue Grade Separation 
Cooperative Agreement 
5 of 5 
17419189.1  
 
Approved as to Form: 
 
 
 
 
Legal Counsel for the JPB 
282 of 734

--- page 283 ---
EXHIBIT A 
 
City shall construct the sidewalk, retaining walls and bio swale generally along the City sewer 
alignment as shown on the attached plans from Caltrain Contract No. 17-J-C-048 (Sheets C260, 
C261, C263-C264, C404-C407, C440, C443, E107-E109, S964, S967-S975), attached, and 
pursuant to Caltrain’s standard specifications, dated 2011. 
 
283 of 734

--- page 284 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
1RWHV
 7KHEXEEOHGLWHPVDUHWREHFRQVWUXFWHGDVSDUWRI
'HODZDUH6HZHU5HOLHI3URMHFW
 7KHFURVVHGRXWLWHPVDUHQRWWREHFRQVWUXFWHGDVSDUW
RIWKH'HODZDUH6HZHU5HOLHI3URMHFW
&nbsp;
284 of&nbsp;734

--- page 285 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
&nbsp;
285 of&nbsp;734

--- page 286 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
&nbsp;
286 of&nbsp;734

--- page 287 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
&nbsp;
287 of&nbsp;734

--- page 288 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
&nbsp;
288 of&nbsp;734

--- page 289 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
tfaC405
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
tfaC405
&nbsp;
289 of&nbsp;734

--- page 290 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
&nbsp;
290 of&nbsp;734

--- page 291 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
tfaC407
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
tfaC407
&nbsp;
291 of&nbsp;734

--- page 292 ---
MATCHLINE- SEE BELOW
MATCHLINE- SEE ABOVE
100
&nbsp;
292 of&nbsp;734

--- page 293 ---
A\

MH _No.25=
89.39" RT
RIM 14.**
NV-10-44

11+78.
10.23 W947 —¢
th

—

—

[**FIELD CONFIRM RIM
“ELEVATION IS LEVEL WITH

PALM COURT O-G:

99.39" RT “PN
IN

14

/CONC. COLLAR
12

—

RCP_-”

18” X 9’ 0%

F

102+40

78.62
)

24

PROFILE

R

1

12+80,Q2
12+80/40

C440

" RT) "RN" 10+57.2

i
RT) "PN”

5.81
1.72
7.07 (36” IN-SW)
T |"PN”
112.27

LT |”25TH” | 102+27.84

A7-(24" }OUTSSE)

ol14) (18” IN)
7 (24" INE

30.06’ [RT "25TH"
7.07 (36” OUT-—NE

DI| No.25-7
TOG |13.5

14,7%*
7.00

87.86' RT PN” 12478.4

911.7
MH

CT|_STD| STRAIGHT HEADWALL.

9.39’ [RT "PN?

|
IN
IN
IN

13,50’

RI
14189’

N
T

N
IN

29.91"
TOG 113181

J

'28TH” 204+89.91

LT |"28TH” 205+44.45

RSP-LIGHT
[(wernon B)
| 4+8°L-X-9'W

-8'D

24” x 100’ RCP
S=0.**%

MH No 28321

m
fo)

8” WATER LINE
SEE SHEET U220 36” x 27’ RCP

40 (A \ PROFILE

EXIST
36” RCP

NEY

10+44

SW)

se)

12+80.02

im
oF

42” (OUT

44”

15” IN-NE)
"Z5TH| 103+56.88

LT |”25TH” 103+67

(12” OUT—NW)

9
TPN”

72
707 (38” |IN-SW)

28

RT
5

.07 (36” OUT—NE)
7.10 (12” |N-NW)
7.10 (12” |N-SE)

14.00’ RT| "PN?

TOG 12.6
7.26 (12” OUY

7.85
11154
iNV-879
7.4

29.97’
DI No.25=5

G 1115
TOG

EG

.0'

3911.84’) RT 725TH” 102+74.55

TOG |10

30.00’ RT) ”25TH”) 1044+19.50
N

30.06’ RT ”257H” 102+40
TOG 11,28

TOG |13.5

DI |No.25—10
224.27’) RT 725TH”

TOG 10193
DI |No.25—12

DI| No.2537
th ia +37

DI |No.25—2
13,50’

N
RI

Z
LP

30
TO
Nh

N
N
N
N

|

FG

59’ RCP

$=8,.32%

15” x 115’ RCP
S=0.30%

12” x 57° RCP 13’ RCP

Ss
a
at
fo}
e
&
z
fo}
3

12” x 115’ RCP
S=0.30%

12” x 50’ RCP
S=0.31%

PROFILE PROFILE

C440 (B
ST)

) 4

GRAPHIC SCALE
HORIZONTAL

GRAPHIC SCALE
VERTICAL

DESIGNED
L. CHIMELSKI
DRAWN

L. CHIMELSKI
CHECKED

I. LIU

IN CHARGE

G. LOW

DATE
07312017

111320
040720
022519
073117

DATE

REVISED PER CHANGE NOTICE 089
REVISED PER CHANGE ORDER 088
REVISED PER CHANGE NOTICE 051
CONFORMED

2
=
3
mM
¥
a?
12}
2
2
wn
oO
re}
N
=
oe
a
a
2
z
7
Fa
a
a
q
2
&
|
9
2
2
3
2
@
fa
o
3
2
oA
[oy
€
a
oy
oO
+
I
o
N
S$
a
el
>
[ec]
Zz

Cruz

DESCRIPTION DESCRIPTION

Erica,

WRECO

1000 Broadway, Suite 475

2 Oakland, CA 94607

Jsavvek X

APPROVED

cal

1250 San Carlos Avenue
San Carlos, CA 94070

DEPUTY DIRECTOR
S. CHAO

PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD

CADD FILE NAME
tfaC443-3

CADD DATE
11132020

PROJECT MANAGEMENT

R. BOLON
STRUCTURES

C. CHEN
TRACK/CIVIL

S. CHAO

SAN MATEO 25TH AVENUE
GRADE SEPARATION

DRAINAGE PROFILES
SHEET 1 OF 4

SCALE
H 1”=20’

Vv

1"=4'

CONTRACT NO
17—J-—C—048

MILEPOST
19.0-20.3}

DWG NO

C443

&nbsp;
293 of&nbsp;734

REV | PAGE NO



--- page 294 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
287
&nbsp;
294 of&nbsp;734

--- page 295 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
Layout1
288
LIGHTS
INSTALLED BY
OTHERS
&nbsp;
295 of&nbsp;734

--- page 296 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
tfaE109
289
&nbsp;
296 of&nbsp;734

--- page 297 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S964
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S964
&nbsp;
297 of&nbsp;734

--- page 298 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S967_RW14_lo1
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S967_RW14_lo1
&nbsp;
298 of&nbsp;734

--- page 299 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S968_RW14_lo2
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S968_RW14_lo2
&nbsp;
299 of&nbsp;734

--- page 300 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S969_RW14_lo3
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S969_RW14_lo3
&nbsp;
300 of&nbsp;734

--- page 301 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S970_RW14_Detl
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S970_RW14_Detl
&nbsp;
301 of&nbsp;734

--- page 302 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S971_RW15_lo1
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S971_RW15_lo1
&nbsp;
302 of&nbsp;734

--- page 303 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S972_RW15_lo2
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S972_RW15_lo2
&nbsp;
303 of&nbsp;734

--- page 304 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S973_RW15_lo3
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S973_RW15_lo3
&nbsp;
304 of&nbsp;734

--- page 305 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S974_RW15_Detl
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S974_RW15_Detl
&nbsp;
305 of&nbsp;734

--- page 306 ---
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S975_CulvDetl
100 Pringle Avenue
Suite 400
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
S975_CulvDetl
&nbsp;
306 of&nbsp;734

--- page 307 ---
Agreement No. 800899 
JPB Standard License Form, Rev. 12/ 2013 
17437607.1  
 
LICENSE AGREEMENT 
 
 
This License Agreement (“Agreement” or “License”) is entered into as of ________, 
20____ (“Effective Date”), by and between the PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS 
BOARD, a public agency (“JPB”), and the SAN MATEO COUNTY TRANSIT DISTRICT, a 
public agency (“SamTrans”), collectively referred to herein as “Railroad” and CITY OF SAN 
MATEO (“Licensee”).  
 
R E C I T A L S: 
A. 
Railroad is the owner of the Peninsula Corridor railroad right-of-way (“Right-of-
Way”) and, more particularly, of that certain real property which is located between 25th Avenue 
and five-hundred feet south of 31st Avenue near the Hillsdale Station located in San Mateo, CA as 
referenced  in  Exhibit A, which is attached to this Agreement and incorporated into it by this 
reference (the “Property”).  JPB contracts with an operator (“Operator”), currently the 
TransitAmerica Services Inc., to operate the commuter rail service on the Right-of-Way.  The 
Operator also oversees maintenance of the Right-of-Way, including the Property. 
 
B. 
Licenses desires to perform work at the Property.  Licensee shall perform all 
necessary work in a satisfactory manner and shall furnish and install all materials, equipment, 
tools, labor, and incidentals necessary to complete the work under this Agreement which shall 
include, but not limited to, the following: mobilization, traffic control, utility locating, removal 
and replacement of surface improvements, provision of trench shoring, launching and receiving 
pit, installation of a new sanitary sewer system, installation of new sanitary sewer manholes, and 
site restoration and cleanup (collectively, the “Facilities”) upon the Property which will be  in 
accordance with the plans shown on Exhibit B, which is attached to this Agreement and 
incorporated into it by this reference.  The Facilities will be installed on the Property within the 
area (the “License Area”) shown on Exhibit A, which is attached to this Agreement and 
incorporated into it by this reference.  Licensee desires to receive a license for the purpose of 
constructing, installing, maintaining, operating, using and repairing the Facilities (collectively “the 
Work”). 
 
C. 
Following completion of the Facilities, Licensee will maintain and repair the 
Facilities. 
 
D. 
Railroad is willing to grant a License to Licensee on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth for the purposes of performing the Work. 
 
E. 
Licensee and Railroad parties are aware that the 25th Avenue Grade Separation 
Project ("Project") was design to enable the construction of additional tracks within the Property, 
including, but not limited to, the potential construction of facilities by the California High-Speed 
Rail Authority. If the site is not eventually required for such construction, JPB may consider 
307 of 734

--- page 308 ---
Agreement No. 800899 
JPB Standard License Form, Rev. 12/ 2013 
 
17437607.1  
2
development of the site.  In both instances, Licensee will be required to relocate its improvements 
at its own costs, as detailed in this agreement. 
 
F. 
Licensee, following the installation of the Facilities and pursuant to a separate 
agreement, has agreed to construct certain improvements, consisting of a sidewalk, retaining wall 
and bio swale, related to the Project (the "Improvements").  This License will allow Licensee 
access to construct the Facilities and the Improvements.    
 
FOR VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, the receipt of which is acknowledged, the parties 
agree as follows: 
1. 
Grant of License.  Subject to the conditions, covenants and restrictions of this 
Agreement, Railroad grants to Licensee a personal, revocable license for the purposes of installing 
the Improvements, installing and maintaining the Facilities, and performing the Work in the 
License Area, together with necessary rights of ingress and egress, in, upon, under, along, across 
and over the Property for these purposes in the location described in Exhibit A.   
2. 
Maintenance of Facilities and Improvements.  Following completion of the 
Facilities, Licensee will own, maintain and repair the Facilities at its sole cost.  Licensee agrees to 
keep the Property and the Facilities in good and safe condition, free from waste, so far as affected 
by Licensee’s operations to the reasonable satisfaction of Railroad.  If, after installation of the 
Facilities, Licensee fails to keep the License Area and the Facilities in good and safe condition, 
free from waste, then Railroad may perform the necessary work at the expense of Licensee, which 
expense Licensee agrees to pay to Railroad upon demand.  Following completion of the 
Improvements, JPB shall own, maintain, and repair the Improvements at its sole cost. 
3. 
License Fee.  Licensee shall pay to Railroad a license processing fee of $1,500.  In 
addition, Licensee shall pay a one-time license fee of $15,000.  
4. Service Agreement.  Licensee shall enter into a Service Agreement with Railroad. 
Such agreement shall provide for payment by Licensee for services provided by Railroad 
necessary for the Licensee to conduct the Work.  As a condition precedent to the effectiveness of 
this Agreement, Licensee shall enter into a Service Agreement and shall have paid all fees 
associated with said Service Agreement. In the event subsequent to the initial installation of the 
Facilities, Licensee performs work that causes Railroad to perform additional services or furnish 
additional materials to Licensee, Railroad may require Licensee to enter into a separate 
agreement regarding additional services to the License Area.  Any costs incurred under this 
Section shall be in addition to those due under Section 3. 
5. 
Work Procedures.  All Work performed by Licensee shall be performed in 
accordance with, and in the manner required of the “Contractor”, in both the Railroad’s Work 
Procedures described in the attached Exhibit C and Railroad’s Operating Systems Interface, as 
described in the attached Exhibit D, both of which are attached to this Agreement and incorporated 
into it by this reference. 
6. 
Condition to Effectiveness.  As a condition precedent to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, Licensee shall have paid any license processing fee indicated in Section 3 above and 
308 of 734

--- page 309 ---
Agreement No. 800899 
JPB Standard License Form, Rev. 12/ 2013 
 
17437607.1  
3
provided to Railroad insurance certificates that provide evidence that Licensee has the kinds of 
insurance described in Exhibit E, which is attached to this Agreement and incorporated into it by 
this reference. 
7. 
Nonexclusiveness of License.  This License is nonexclusive and nonpossessory.  
Licensee must allow access to the Property by other parties possessing prior rights, unless separate 
arrangements are made with such parties. 
8. 
Prior Rights.  This License is made subject and subordinate to the prior and 
continuing right and obligation of Railroad, its successors and assigns, to use the Right-of-Way in 
the performance of its transportation operations.  There is reserved unto Railroad, its successors 
and assigns, the right to construct, reconstruct, maintain and use existing and future facilities and 
appurtenances, including, without limitation, existing and future transportation, communication, 
railroad tracks and pipeline facilities and appurtenances in, upon, over, under, across and along the 
Right-of-Way. This grant is made subject to all licenses, leases, easements, restrictions, conditions, 
covenants, encumbrances, liens and claims of title that may affect the Right-of-Way.  The word 
“grant” shall not be construed as a covenant against the existence of any of these or establish any 
ownership interest in the Right-of-Way. 
9. Term of License.  The term of this License shall commence upon the start of the 
Work upon the Property and shall continue until this License is terminated or suspended as set 
forth herein:   
(a) Either party may terminate this Agreement without cause by giving 90 calendar 
days written notice. 
(b) Railroad may immediately terminate the License by notice to Licensee upon 
Licensee’s discontinuance of the use of the Facilities for one continuous year or the abandonment 
of any Facilities installed on the Property. 
(c) Railroad may immediately suspend the License by notice to Licensee if 
Licensee defaults with respect to any covenant or condition of this Agreement and Licensee fails 
to correct the default within 30 days after receipt of notice from Railroad to do so. 
(d) Railroad may immediately terminate or suspend this License by notice to 
Licensee upon any failure of Licensee to reimburse Railroad for any amount owing as and when 
due as provided any agreement with Railroad. 
(e) The License shall lapse and become void if the Work is not commenced within 
one year of the date of this Agreement. 
Upon suspension of the License, Licensee shall immediately vacate the Property and refrain from 
entering onto it until the License is reinstated in writing by Railroad.  Upon termination of the 
License for any reason established in this Section 9, Railroad may, at its sole election, at any time 
thereafter either complete the Work or remove the Facilities from the Property or any portion 
thereof and restore the Property to its original condition, at Licensee’s sole cost and expense.  
Licensee acknowledges and agrees that the performance of the Work or the installation of the 
Facilities on the Property pursuant to this Agreement shall not in any way whatsoever limit 
309 of 734

--- page 310 ---
Agreement No. 800899 
JPB Standard License Form, Rev. 12/ 2013 
 
17437607.1  
4
Railroad’s right to terminate this License pursuant to the terms hereof or any of Railroad’s rights 
hereunder.  Licensee’s indemnity obligations set forth in Sections 11, 12 and 13 shall survive 
termination of this License for any reason.  
 
10. 
Fiber Optics Systems.  The rights granted by this Agreement are subject to the rights 
of Railroad (or anyone acting with the permission of Railroad) to construct, reconstruct, maintain 
and operate fiber optic and other telecommunications systems (“Systems”) in, upon, along, across 
and beneath the Right-of-Way, including the Property upon which the Work shall be conducted.   
Licensee agrees to reimburse Railroad and/or the owner of the systems for all reasonable expenses 
which would not have been incurred except by reason of the use of the Property by Licensee, its 
agents, employees or invitees, including relocation costs or any damages incurred by such owner 
due to injury to the Systems. 
11. 
Assumption of Risk/Waiver of Claims.  Licensee shall assume all risk of damage 
to any and all improvements constructed as part of the Work and appurtenances and to any other 
property of Licensee, or any property under the control or custody of Licensee while upon or near 
the Property of Railroad incident to the performance of the Work, caused by or contributed to in 
any way by the construction, operation, maintenance or presence of Railroad’s operations at the 
Property and Railroad shall not be liable therefor.  Licensee hereby releases Railroad from any 
liability, including any claims for damages or extra compensation (i) arising from construction 
delays due to work by Railroad forces or Railroad operations, (ii) as the result of the failure or 
inability of Railroad to provide necessary flaggers or inspectors, (iii) due to the presence of 
Hazardous Materials on the Property, (iv) any failure by Railroad to investigate or identify the 
presence of such materials, (v) for work done by Railroad forces, or (vi) for Railroad operations.  
(a) Neither Railroad nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be 
liable for any damage to the property of Licensee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors or 
subcontractors, or their employees, or for any bodily injury or death to such persons, resulting or 
arising from the condition of the Property or its use by Licensee, except where any damage, bodily 
injury or death are caused by the sole negligence or willful misconduct of Railroad, its directors, 
officers, agents, or employees.  
(b) Licensee acknowledges that this License is freely revocable by Railroad and in 
view of such fact, Licensee expressly assumes the risk of making any expenditure in connection 
with this License, even if such expenditures are substantial.  Without limiting any indemnification 
obligations of Licensee or other waivers contained in this License and as a material part of the 
consideration for this License, Licensee fully RELEASES, WAIVES AND DISCHARGES 
forever any and all claims, demands, rights, and causes of action against, and covenants not to sue, 
Indemnitees (as defined in Section 12 below) under any present or future laws, statutes, or 
regulations, including, but not limited to, any claim for inverse condemnation or the payment of 
just compensation under law or equity, in the event that Railroad exercises its right to revoke or 
terminate this License. 
(c) Licensee acknowledges that it will not be a displaced person at the time this 
License is terminated or revoked or expires by its own terms, and Licensee fully RELEASES, 
WAIVES AND DISCHARGES forever any and all claims, demands, rights, and causes of action 
against, and covenants not to sue, Indemnitees under any present or future laws, statutes, or 
310 of 734

--- page 311 ---
Agreement No. 800899 
JPB Standard License Form, Rev. 12/ 2013 
 
17437607.1  
5
regulations, including, without limitation, any and all claims for relocation benefits or assistance 
from Railroad under federal and state relocation assistance laws. 
(d) Licensee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the fees payable hereunder do 
not take into account any potential liability of Railroad for any consequential or incidental damages 
including, but not limited to, lost profits and arising out of disruption to the facilities or Licensee's 
uses hereunder.  Railroad would not be willing to give this License in the absence of a waiver of 
liability for consequential or incidental damages due to the acts or omissions of Railroad or its 
Agents, and Licensee expressly assumes the risk with respect thereto.  Accordingly, without 
limiting any indemnification obligations of Licensee or other waivers contained in this License 
and as a material part of the consideration for this License, Licensee fully RELEASES, WAIVES 
AND DISCHARGES forever any and all claims, demands, rights, and causes of action against 
Railroad for consequential and incidental damages (including without limitation, lost profits and 
covenants not to sue Indemnitees for such damages arising out of this License or the uses 
authorized hereunder, including, without limitation, any interference with uses conducted by 
Licensee pursuant to this License, regardless of the cause, and whether or not due to the negligence 
of Railroad Indemnitees, except for the gross negligence and willful misconduct of Railroad. 
(e) As part of Licensee's agreement to accept the License Area in its existing 
condition, and without limiting such agreement, Licensee on behalf of itself and its successors and 
assigns, waives its right to recover from, and forever releases and discharges, Railroad, the 
Indemnitees, and their respective heirs, successors, administrators, personal representatives and 
assigns, from any and all claims, whether direct or indirect, known or unknown, foreseen and 
unforeseen, that may arise on account of or in any way be connected with the physical or 
environmental condition of the Property and any related improvements or any law or regulation 
applicable thereto or the suitability of the License Area for Licensee's intended use. 
 
12. 
Indemnity.  Licensee shall release, defend (with counsel reasonably satisfactory to 
Railroad) and indemnify the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, the City and County of San 
Francisco, the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority and the San Mateo County Transit 
District, the Union Pacific Railroad Company and TransitAmerica Services, Inc., and all of their 
respective officers, directors, employees, volunteers and agents, the successors and assigns of any 
of them, (all of the above hereinafter collectively known as “Indemnitees”), from and against all 
claims, causes of action, proceedings, losses, damages, liability, cost, and expense (including, 
without limit, any fines, penalties, judgments, litigation costs, attorneys’ fees and consulting, 
engineering and construction costs) for damage to natural resources or other loss of or damage to 
property and for injuries to or death of any person (including, but not limited to, the property and 
employees of each party) (“Liability”) when arising or resulting from the use of the Property or 
performance of the Work by Licensee, its agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors, or 
invitees or Licensee’s breach of the provisions of this Agreement.  The duty of Licensee to 
indemnify and save harmless includes the duties to defend as set forth in Section 2778 of the Civil 
Code.  It is the express intent of the parties that Licensee will indemnify and hold harmless 
Indemnitees from any and all claims, suits or actions arising from any cause whatsoever as set 
forth above regardless of the existence or degree of fault or negligence on the part of Indemnitees, 
Licensee, or any subcontractor or employee of any of these, except to the extent the Liability was 
attributable to the gross negligence, willful misconduct or criminal acts of a particular Indemnitee, 
311 of 734

--- page 312 ---
Agreement No. 800899 
JPB Standard License Form, Rev. 12/ 2013 
 
17437607.1  
6
it being understood and agreed that any Indemnitee not acting in such a manner shall still be 
entitled to the benefits of this indemnity.  Licensee waives any and all rights to any type of express 
or implied indemnity against Indemnitees. This indemnity shall survive termination of this 
Agreement.  It is the intention of the parties that should any term of this indemnity provision be 
found to be void or unenforceable, the remainder of the provision shall remain in full force and 
effect. 
13. 
Hazardous Materials.   
(a) No Hazardous Materials (as defined below) shall be created, stored, used, 
disposed of, brought to or handled at any time upon the Property, except Hazardous Materials 
contained in or used in connection with construction equipment necessary for the operation of such 
equipment or vehicle being used for work which is authorized on the Property under this License.  
In conducting its operations on the Property, and in arranging for the handling, transport and 
disposal of any materials known (whether or not hazardous), Licensee shall at all times comply 
with all applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations or orders of whatever kind or 
nature and pay all costs of such compliance.  Licensee shall immediately notify Railroad when 
Licensee learns of, or has reason to believe that, a release of Hazardous Materials has occurred in, 
on or about the Property.  The term “release” or “threatened release” when used with respect to 
Hazardous Materials shall include any actual or imminent spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, 
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing in, on, under 
or about the Property.  Licensee shall further comply with all laws requiring notice of such releases 
or threatened releases to governmental agencies, and shall take all action necessary to mitigate the 
release or minimize the spread of contamination.  In the event that a Licensee or its Agents or 
Invitees cause a release of Hazardous Materials, Licensee shall, without cost to Railroad and in 
accordance with all laws and regulations, return the Property to the condition immediately prior to 
the release.  In connection therewith, Licensee shall afford Railroad a full opportunity to participate 
in any discussion with governmental agencies regarding any settlement agreement, cleanup or 
abatement agreement, consent decree or other compromise proceeding involving Hazardous 
Materials.  
(b) Any Hazardous Materials introduced onto the Property by Licensee, its agents, 
employees, contractors, subcontractors or invitees, shall remain the property of Licensee, its 
agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors or invitees, which shall be responsible for disposing 
of these materials at no cost to Railroad or any Indemnitee, and Licensee shall be obligated to 
defend, indemnify and hold Indemnitees harmless from any and all Liability arising from it, 
regardless of whether such Liability arises during or after the term of this License.  This indemnity 
shall not extend to Liability arising from the presence of any Hazardous Materials on the Property 
as of the Effective Date, unless (i) such Hazardous Materials were introduced onto the Property by 
Licensee, its agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors or invitees, in which case this 
indemnity shall apply, or (ii) Hazardous Materials are present on the Property, and Licensee’s 
handling, excavation, relocation, investigation, disposal or other exercise of control over the 
Property imposes on the Railroad new or additional liability, which the Railroad would not 
otherwise have incurred in the absence of Licensee’s activities or project.  (In the latter event, 
Licensee shall pay for and defend and indemnify Indemnitees from and against such additional 
liability to the extent of such new or additional liability.). 
312 of 734

--- page 313 ---
Agreement No. 800899 
JPB Standard License Form, Rev. 12/ 2013 
 
17437607.1  
7
(c) Any Hazardous Materials not introduced onto the Property by Licensee, its 
agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors or invitees shall remain the property of the Railroad 
(or other responsible third parties) and shall not be deemed property of Licensee.       
(d) For purposes of this Agreement, “Hazardous Materials” means material that, 
because of its quantity, concentration or physical or chemical characteristics, is at any time now 
or hereafter deemed by any federal, state or local governmental authority to pose a present or 
potential hazard to public health, welfare or the environment.  Hazardous Materials includes, 
without limitation, any material or substance defined as a “hazardous substance, pollutant or 
contaminant” pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and 
Liability Act of 1980, as amended (42 U.S.C. Sections 9601 et seq.), the Resource Conservation 
and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) or pursuant to Section 25316 of the California Health 
and Safety Code; a “hazardous waste” listed pursuant to Section 25140 of the California Health 
and Safety Code; any asbestos and asbestos containing materials whether or not such materials are 
part of the Property or are naturally occurring substances on the Property, and any petroleum, 
including, without limitation, crude oil or any fraction thereof, natural gas or natural gas liquids.  
(e) It is the intention of the parties that should any term of this indemnity provision 
be found to be void or unenforceable, the remainder of the provision shall remain in full force and 
effect. 
(f) This indemnity shall survive termination of this Agreement. 
14. 
Compliance with Laws.  Licensee shall comply, at Licensee’s expense, with all 
applicable laws, regulations, rules and orders with respect to the use of the Property, regardless of 
when they become or became effective, including, without limitation, those relating to 
construction, grading, signage, health, safety, noise, environmental protection, hazardous 
materials, waste disposal and water and air quality, and furnish satisfactory evidence of such 
compliance upon request of Railroad.  Before beginning work on the Property, Licensee shall also 
obtain, at Licensee’s expense, any and all permits, licenses and approvals required for construction 
and operation of the Work and shall provide Railroad with copies of such approvals.  Under no 
circumstances shall Licensee damage, harm or take any rare, threatened or endangered species on 
or about the Property. 
15. 
Notices.  All notices required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall 
be in writing and mailed postage prepaid by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, 
or by personal delivery or by overnight courier, to the appropriate address indicated below or at 
such other place or places as either Railroad or Licensee may, from time to time, respectively, 
designate in a written notice given to the other.  Notices shall be deemed sufficiently served four 
(4) days after the date of mailing, one (1) day after mailing by overnight courier, or immediately 
upon personal delivery. 
To Licensee: City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
ATTN: Deryk Daquigan  
 
 
 
313 of 734

--- page 314 ---
Agreement No. 800899 
JPB Standard License Form, Rev. 12/ 2013 
 
17437607.1  
8
To Railroad: Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board 
San Mateo County Transit District 
1250 San Carlos Avenue 
P.O. Box 3006 
San Carlos, CA 94070-1306 
Attn:  General Manager/Executive Director 
 
 
 
 
With a copy to: Hanson Bridgett LLP 
425 Market Street, 26th Floor 
San Francisco, CA 94105-2173 
Attn:  Joan Cassman, Esq. 
 
 
 
To Operator: TransitAmerica Services, Inc. 
93 Cahill Street 
San Jose, CA 95110 
Attn:  General Manager 
 
 
 
Day-to-day communications shall be directed to JPB’s Senior Engineer, Lou Tolentino 
(Tel:  (650) 508-7796; Email: TolentinoL@samtrans.com) and to Licensee’s Project Manager 
Deryk Daquigan, (Tel: (650)522-7287; Email: ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org). 
16. 
Relocation of License.  In the event Railroad shall at any time so require, Licensee, 
at Licensee’s expense, shall reconstruct, alter, make changes in the location of its Facilities on the 
Property, within 30 calendar days of receipt of written notice from Railroad to do so or such longer 
period as approved by Railroad.  The Railroad shall designate the location for the Licensee to 
relocate its permit, if on property owned by Railroad.  Any necessary property interests shall be 
obtained at Licensee’s sole cost and expense.  Railroad shall not be responsible for costs or 
expenses involved in relocating the Facilities, in the event the Facilities must be relocated or for 
any other cost or inconvenience to Licensee.  Licensee shall perform the relocation work in a 
manner and at times satisfactory to Railroad.  If Licensee fails to perform such work, Railroad may 
perform the work at the expense of Licensee, which expense shall, upon demand, be paid by the 
Licensee.  The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all work Permittee performs under this 
Section. 
 
17. 
Successors and Assigns.  Licensee shall not assign nor sublet, in whole or in part, 
any rights covered by this Agreement, or permit any other person, firm or corporation to use, in 
whole or in part, any of the rights or privileges granted pursuant to this Agreement, without first 
obtaining the written consent of the Railroad.   
18. 
No Waiver.  No waiver of any default or breach of any covenant of this Agreement 
by either party shall be implied from any omission by either party to take action on account of such 
default if such default persists or is repeated, and no express waiver shall affect any default other 
than the default specified in the waiver, and then the waiver shall be operative only for the time 
and to the extent stated.  Waivers of any covenant, term or condition by either party shall not be 
construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same covenant, term or condition.  The 
314 of 734

--- page 315 ---
Agreement No. 800899 
JPB Standard License Form, Rev. 12/ 2013 
 
17437607.1  
9
consent or approval by either party to or of any act by either party requiring further consent or 
approval shall not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary their consent or approval to or of any 
subsequent similar acts. 
19. 
Severability.  Each provision of this Agreement is intended to be severable.  If any 
term of provision shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal or invalid 
for any reason whatsoever, such provision shall be severed from this Agreement and shall not 
affect the validity of the remainder of this Agreement. 
20. 
Attorneys’ Fees.  If any legal proceeding should be instituted by either of the parties 
to enforce the terms of this Agreement or to determine the rights of the parties under this 
Agreement, the prevailing party in the proceeding shall receive, in addition to all court costs, 
reasonable attorneys’ fees. 
21. 
Condemnation.  In the event all or any portion of the Property is condemned for 
public use, Licensee shall receive compensation only in the amount awarded for the taking and 
damaging of Licensee’s Facilities.  Any compensation for damages for taking the Property or 
Licensee’s permit interest thereon awarded to Licensee shall be assigned to Railroad. 
22. 
Governing Law.  The rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement 
shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of California as applied to contracts 
that are made and performed entirely in California. 
23. 
Effect of Headings.  The headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are included 
for purposes of convenience only, and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of any of 
its provisions. 
24. 
Integration.  This Agreement constitutes the complete expression of the agreement 
between the parties and supersedes any prior agreements, whether written or oral, concerning the 
subject of this Agreement, which are not fully expressed in this Agreement.  The parties intend 
this Agreement to be an integrated agreement.  Any modification of or addition to this Agreement 
must be in writing signed by both parties. 
25. 
Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which 
shall be deemed an original but both of which shall constitute one and the same agreement. 
 
[SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE] 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this License as of the day and year first 
above written by their duly authorized representatives. 
 
315 of 734

--- page 316 ---
Agreement No. 800899 
JPB Standard License Form, Rev. 12/ 2013 
 
17437607.1  
10
PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT 
POWERS BOARD 
 
By: 
 
Title:  Chief Operating Officer, Rail 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
*By:_________________________________ 
  Title: 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
Attorney 
 
 
*By:_________________________________ 
  Title: 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
_____________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
City Attorney 
 
 
SAN MATEO COUNTY TRANSIT 
DISTRICT 
 
By: 
 
Title:  Chief Operating Officer, Rail 
 
*  NOTE:  If Licensee is a corporation, this 
Agreement must be executed by two corporate 
officers, consisting of:  (1) the President, Vice 
President or Chair of the Board, and (2) the 
Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Chief Financial 
Officer, Assistant Chief Financial Officer, or 
by any person authorized by the corporation to 
execute written contracts. 
APPROVED AS TO FORM: 
 
 
 
Attorney 
 
 
 
316 of 734

--- page 317 ---
EXHIBIT A
Oil awned loca a
eparkiwitha) ae

4 if
Paull Mant

sed

et

uy
RY \ se
- ¥ ri

¢
rail
io)
4
J

garkySemy Mateo

j

— Lay

Kubg) ras gf.

fi

ull ait

s Tema Sendfeedback 2

317 of 734



--- page 318 ---
2121 N. California Blvd
Suite 475
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500

2121 N. California Blvd
Suite 475
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500

 SEWER ALIGNMENT
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DELAWARE RELIEF SEWER
ALIGNMENT EXHIBIT B
&nbsp;
318 of&nbsp;734

--- page 319 ---
2121 N. California Blvd
Suite 475
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500

2121 N. California Blvd
Suite 475
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500

SEWER ALIGNMENT
SEWER ALIGNMENT
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DELAWARE RELIEF SEWER
ALIGNMENT EXHIBIT B
&nbsp;
319 of&nbsp;734

--- page 320 ---
2121 N. California Blvd
Suite 475
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500

2121 N. California Blvd
Suite 475
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500

SEWER ALIGNMENT
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DELAWARE RELIEF SEWER
ALIGNMENT EXHIBIT B
&nbsp;
320 of&nbsp;734

--- page 321 ---
2121 N. California Blvd
Suite 475
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500

2121 N. California Blvd
Suite 475
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500

SEWER ALIGNMENT
 SEWER ALIGNMENT
SEWER
ALIGNMENT
Match Line with
Next Sheet
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DELAWARE RELIEF SEWER
ALIGNMENT EXHIBIT B
&nbsp;
321 of&nbsp;734

--- page 322 ---
2121 N. California Blvd
Suite 475
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
4
2121 N. California Blvd
Suite 475
Walnut Creek, CA 94596
925-974-2500
4
Match Line with
Previous Sheet
SEWER ALIGNMENT
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DELAWARE RELIEF SEWER 
ALIGNMENT EXHIBIT B
&nbsp;
322 of&nbsp;734

--- page 323 ---
923792.1  
Exhibit C 
Working Procedures 
 
 
 
Licensee (Permittee) shall at all times abide by Railroad’s Operating Systems Interface, a copy of 
which is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit D, as well as with the regulations of Railroad 
(including, but limited to, Railroad’s Track Specifications and Design Guidelines for Grade 
Separations and Any Other Encroachments, dated July, 1994, as amended, and Railroad’s Right 
of Way Standards for Longitudinal and Transverse Utility Encroachments, dated July, 1994, as 
amended).  Permittee’s Work on the Property shall be subject to Railroad’s approval.  Without 
limiting the foregoing, Permittee shall at all times comply with the regulations of Railroad and 
the Operator and the instructions of either of their representatives relating to the proper 
manner of protecting the tracks, pipelines, wire lines, signals and all other property at said 
location, the traffic moving on such tracks and the removal of tools, equipment and materials.  
In addition, Permittee will adhere to the following specific requirements: 
(a) Repair and Maintenance.  After installation, Permittee shall bear the entire 
cost of maintaining and operating facilities installed by Permittee on the Property. 
(b) Plans Approved Prior to Commencing Work.  Permittee’s work on the 
Property shall be performed in accordance with plans and specifications approved in advance 
and in writing by Railroad as to overall layout, clearances established by the California Public 
Utilities Commission (including, but not limited to, PUC General Order 26-D), shoring, temporary 
supports, false work, railroad bridges and any other works on Railroad’s Right-of-Way and in 
such manner and at such times as shall not endanger or interfere with the safe operation of the 
tracks and other railroad facilities on or adjacent to the Right-of-Way.  Any waiver of these 
standards must be in writing and must be issued by Railroad’s Chief Engineer.  Any revisions and 
amendments to the approved plans and specifications pertaining to the Work on the Property 
must be approved in writing by Railroad. The details of construction affecting the Railroad tracks 
and property not included in the contract plans shall be submitted to the Railroad for approval 
before such work is undertaken.  All plans and designs related to track rearrangement shall be 
subject to the prior approval of Railroad.  Permittee shall submit to Railroad three (3) sets of 
working drawings showing details of construction affecting Railroad’s tracks and the Property, 
including those for false work over and/or adjacent to the tracks or shoring of excavations near 
tracks, not included in the contract plans, and Permittee shall not begin such work until notified 
by Railroad that such plans have been approved.  Railroad’s approval for these limited purposes 
shall not relieve Permittee from liability arising out of performance of the Work or lead to an 
assumption of design or construction responsibility on the part of Railroad or its Operator.  
Approval by Railroad shall not constitute a warranty by Railroad that such plans conform to 
applicable federal, state, and/or local codes and regulations.  
(c) Notice Prior to Commencing Work.  Permittee shall cooperate with the 
Railroad and Operator where work is over or under the tracks, or within the limits of the 
Property, in order to expedite the work and to avoid interference with the operation of 
Railroad’s equipment.  Permittee shall notify the Railroad’s Chief Engineer at least ten (10) 
working days (or such additional notice as may be provided herein) before commencing any 
323 of 734

--- page 324 ---
923792.1  
work on the Property.  Although Railroad will reasonably cooperate with Permittee so that the 
Work may be handled in an efficient manner, Permittee hereby waives and releases Railroad 
from any claim for damages against Railroad in the event the Work is delayed for any reason 
whatsoever. 
(d) No Interference With Railroad Operations.  Permittee shall perform its work 
in such manner and at such times as shall not endanger or interfere with the safe operation of 
the tracks and property of Railroad and traffic moving on such tracks, as well as wires, signals, 
pipelines, utilities and other property of Railroad, its tenants or licensees, at or in the vicinity of 
the work.  All work contemplated in this Agreement shall be performed in a good and worker-
like manner to the satisfaction of the parties, and each portion shall be promptly commenced by 
the party obligated to do the same and thereafter diligently prosecuted to completion in its 
logical order and sequence. 
(e) Repair of Damage.  Permittee shall take protective measures necessary to 
keep Railroad’s facilities, including track ballast, free of sand or debris resulting from its 
operations.  Any damage to Railroad’s facilities resulting from Permittee’s operations will be 
repaired or replaced by Railroad at Permittee’s sole cost and expense, which Permittee shall pay 
to Railroad promptly upon demand therefor.   
(f) Underground Facilities.  Permittee shall be solely responsible at its own cost 
for identifying the location of all pipelines (including, but not limited to, high pressure 
petroleum, gas and water pipelines), fiber optic lines and all other utilities of whatever nature 
on the Property, and for relocating all said pipelines and utilities which would interfere with 
Permittee’s Work. Permittee shall also be solely responsible at its own cost for identifying the 
location of structures not owned by Railroad on the Property, including but not limited to tie-
backs owned by Bay Meadows Main Track Investors LLC as outlined in Exhibit F, and for 
relocating all said structures which would interfere with Permittee’s Work. Permittee shall 
relocate, or arrange for the relocation by a third-party contractor approved by Railroad, any and 
all Railroad signal lines and Railroad communication facilities, the existing location of which 
would interfere with the Work, at Permittee’s sole cost and expense, unless other arrangements 
are made by separate agreement.  Absence of markers does not constitute a warranty by 
Railroad of the absence of subsurface installations.  It shall be Permittee’s responsibility to 
determine the existence of any underground facilities and Permittee shall call Underground 
Service Alert at 1-800-642-2444 prior to beginning any work on the Property.  Since there is the 
possibility of the existence of pipelines or other structures beneath the Property, if Permittee 
should excavate or drill, then Permittee’s forces shall explore such structures with hand tools to 
a depth of at least eight feet (8’) below the surface of the ground or, at Permittee’s option, use 
suitable detection equipment, prior to drilling or excavating with mechanized equipment.   
(g) Storage.  Permittee shall not pile or store any tools or other materials or 
park any equipment, when not in use, closer to the center of nearest railroad track then 
permitted by the following permanent clearances: 
(i) 
25’-0” horizontally from center line of track; and 
(ii) 
22’-6” vertically above top of rail. 
The placement of piles, forms, braces, shoring, false work, or other construction 
324 of 734

--- page 325 ---
923792.1  
supports shall be in accordance with Appendix H of the most current Caltrans Trenching and 
Shoring manual.   
Walkways with railings shall be constructed by Permittee over open excavation areas 
when in close proximity of tracks, and railings shall not be closer than 8’-6” horizontally from 
centerline of the nearest track, if tangent, or 9’-6” if curved.  Any infringement on the above 
temporary construction clearances due to the Permittee’s operations shall be submitted to 
Railroad for approval, and shall not be undertaken until approved by Railroad.  When the 
temporary vertical clearance is less than 22’-6” above top of rail, Railroad shall have the option 
of installing tell-tales or other protective devices Railroad deems necessary for protection of 
Railroad trainmen or traffic.  Permittee shall notify the Railroad in writing, at least twenty-five 
(25) calendar days, but no more than forty (40) calendar days, in advance of the starting date of 
installing temporary work with less than permanent clearances established above for approval 
as provided herein.   
(h) Open Holes.  Any open holes shall be satisfactorily covered at all times when 
Permittee’s forces are not physically working in the vicinity.  Upon completion of work, all holes 
will be filled in to meet the surrounding ground level with clean, compacted, earthen material 
and the property left in a neat and safe condition reasonably satisfactory to Railroad. 
(i) No Crossing of Tracks.  Permittee shall not be permitted to cross Railroad’s 
tracks located on or adjacent to the Property without Railroad’s prior written approval, which 
may be conditioned on such terms as Railroad deems appropriate.  Absent such approval, 
Permittee’s access shall be by use only of designated public streets or crossings. 
(j) Payments and Liens.  With respect to the Work, Permittee shall fully pay for 
all materials joined or affixed to the Property, and shall pay in full all persons who perform labor 
on or deliver materials to the Property.  As Railroad is a public entity, its property is not subject 
to mechanics’ or materialmen’s liens, and nothing in this Permit shall be construed to make its 
property subject to such liens.  Nevertheless, if any stop notice claims, mechanics’ or 
materialmen’s liens of any kind are filed, Permittee shall immediately remove them at 
Permittee’s own expense, and shall pay any judgment which may be entered.  Should Permittee 
fail, neglect, or refuse so to do, Railroad, after 48 hours prior notice to Permittee, shall have the 
right to pay any amount required to release any such liens, or to defend any action brought, and 
to pay any judgment entered.  Permittee shall be liable to Railroad for all costs, damages, 
reasonable attorneys’ fees, and any amounts expended in defending any proceedings or in the 
payment of any of said liens or any judgment.  Railroad may post and maintain upon the 
Property notices of nonresponsibility as provided by law. 
(k) Tests.  Permittee shall cooperate with Railroad in making any tests Railroad 
requires of any installation or condition that in Railroad’s reasonable judgment may have an 
adverse effect on any of the facilities of Railroad.  All costs incurred by the tests, or any 
corrections, shall be borne by Permittee. 
(l)  Completion.  Permittee shall notify Railroad the date said work is 
completed, and also the date the Permittee’s Work is accepted by the Permittee.  Upon 
completion of the work to be done upon Railroad’s Property, Permittee shall promptly remove 
from the Property all tools, equipment and materials placed thereon by Permittee or its agents.  
325 of 734

--- page 326 ---
923792.1  
Permittee shall restore said property to the same state and condition as when Permittee 
entered thereon and shall leave said Property in a clean and presentable condition.   
(m)   Compliance with Laws.  Permittee shall comply, at Permittee’s expense, 
with all applicable laws, regulations, rules and orders with respect to the use of the Property, 
regardless of when they become or became effective, including, without limitation, those 
relating to construction, grading, signage, health, safety, noise, environmental protection, 
hazardous materials, waste disposal and water and air quality, and furnish satisfactory evidence 
of such compliance to Railroad upon request. 
(n) Condition of Property.  Permittee agrees to keep the Property and the Work 
in good and safe condition, free from waste, so far as affected by Permittee’s operations, to the 
reasonable satisfaction of Railroad.  If, during the term of this Agreement, Permittee fails to 
keep the Property and the Work in good and safe condition, free from debris, then Railroad 
may, at Railroad’s option (1) perform the necessary work at the expense of Permittee which 
expense Permittee agrees to pay to Railroad upon demand, and/or (2) immediately terminate 
this Permit without limiting its remedies.  Permittee shall not conduct any activities on or about 
the Property that constitute a nuisance or unreasonable annoyance (including without 
limitation, emission of objectionable odors, noises or lights) to Railroad, to the owners or 
occupants of neighboring property or to the public. 
(o) Project Markers.   Project markers in a form and size satisfactory to Railroad, 
identifying the facility and its owner, shall be installed and constantly maintained by and at the 
expense of Permittee at Railroad’s property lines or such locations as Railroad shall approve.  
Such markers shall be relocated or removed upon request of Railroad without expense to 
Railroad.  The absence of markers does not constitute a warranty by Railroad that there are no 
subsurface installations. 
(p) Engineering Review.  Railroad (or its contractor) shall provide all engineering 
review, marketing and scheduling, detouring, flagging and engineering inspection required in 
connection with said Work, as determined by Railroad in its reasonable discretion, at 
Permittee’s sole cost and expense. 
(q) Reimbursement.  Permittee agrees to reimburse Railroad for the actual cost 
and expense to Railroad of furnishing any materials or performing any labor in connection with 
the Work, including, but not limited to, the review of plans and specifications, the installation 
and removal of any falsework or other protection beneath or along railroad tracks, and the 
furnishing of such security persons, flaggers and inspectors as Railroad deems necessary.  
Flaggers and/or inspectors are required when work is performed in proximity to the tracks and 
are furnished at the cost of approximately $1600 per day for inspectors and $1000 per day for 
flaggers. 
(r) Delay Damages.  In the event that Permittee’s acts or omissions cause 
delays to Railroad’s commuter train operations, the Railroad will sustain damages, and it is 
agreed by the parties that it is impracticable and extremely difficult to ascertain and determine 
the actual damages which Railroad will incur in the event of and by reason of such delay.  The 
charges cover such costs as: 1) Additional train crew labor costs; 2) Additional Railroad inspector 
costs; 3) Costs of establishing any bus bridges; 4) Lost passenger revenues; and 5) Customer 
326 of 734

--- page 327 ---
923792.1  
rebate costs. 
Minor Train Delay Liquidated Damages 
Maximum Delay Per Train Per Day (minutes/seconds) 
Charge per Train 
1’01” to 2’00” 
$ 2,500 
2’01” to 5’00” 
$ 6,500 
5’01” to 10’00” 
$13,000 
10’01” to 15’00” 
$20,000 
 
 
 
Major Train Delay Liquidated Damages 
No. of Trains Delayed More Than  
15 Minutes in Any Calendar Month 
 
Charge per Train 
1 to 2 
$20,000 
3 to 4 
$40,000 
5 to 6 
$60,000 
7 or More 
$80,000 
 
 
 
Permittee shall pay to Railroad the sums set forth above within 45 days of receipt of invoice 
from Railroad. 
(s) No Blasting.  Permittee shall not conduct any blasting on the Property 
without the prior written authorization of Railroad.   
(t) Workplace Safety.  Permittee shall at all times comply with the provisions of 
the Federal Railroad Administration regulations, including 49 CFR Part 214, pertaining to 
Railroad Workplace Safety, and Railroad’s On-Track Safety Program. 
(u) Conflict with Operating Systems Interface.  To the extent any of the 
foregoing specific requirements of this exhibit conflict with provisions set forth in the Operating 
Systems Interface and Track Specifications and Design Guidelines for Grade Separations, the 
provisions of Operating Systems Interface and Track Specifications and Design Guidelines for 
Grade Separations shall control. 
(v) Protection of Railroad Facilities.  The presence of Railroad’s representatives, 
conductors, inspectors, flagmen or watchmen may be required when Permittee or any of 
Permittee’s forces or contractors are working on or near the Property and will be provided by 
Railroad to protect its facilities, property and movements of its trains or engines.  In general, 
Railroad will furnish such personnel or other protective devices: 
(1) When any part of any equipment is standing or being operated 
within 15 feet, measured horizontally, from centerline of any track on which trains may 
operate, or when any erection or construction activities are in progress within such 
limits, regardless of elevation above or below track. 
(2) For any excavation below elevation or track subgrade if, in the 
327 of 734

--- page 328 ---
923792.1  
opinion of Railroad’s representative, track or other Railroad facilities may be subject to 
settlement or movement. 
(3) For any clearing, grubbing, grading, or blasting which, in the opinion 
of Railroad’s representative, may endanger Railroad facilities or operations. 
 Permittee specifically agrees that the need for and staffing of Railroad personnel or 
those of its Operator as provided in this Section shall be within Railroad’s sole discretion, and 
the attendant costs shall be borne entirely by the Permittee. The reasonable cost to Permittee 
of such inspector shall be payable to Licensor within 30 days after presentation of a bill. 
(w) 
Fiberoptics.   In addition to other provisions of this Agreement requiring 
Permittee to give notice prior to commencing work, Permittee shall telephone Underground 
Service Alert at 1-800-642-2444 (a 24-hour number) to determine if a telecommunications 
system is buried anywhere on or about the Property.  If there is, Permittee will telephone the 
owner of any system identified, arrange for a cable locator and make arrangements for 
relocation or other protection for the system prior to beginning any work on the Property. 
(x) 
Site Specific Work Plan.  Prior to commencing the Work, and each week 
during the core of conducting the Work, Permittee shall have a Site Specific Work Plan approved 
by the Permittee.  If such a plan is not approved by Railroad, or not available on site, Permittee 
may cancel this Agreement. 
(y) 
Traffic.  Permittee shall provide all barriers, directions, signage and 
other form of notice to the public to assure the smooth and uninterrupted flow of traffic around 
the Property. 
328 of 734

--- page 329 ---
Standard OSI Rev 12/2013 
 
 
EXHIBIT D 
OPERATING SYSTEM INTERFACE (OSI) 
 
PART 1 - GENERAL 
 
1.01 
DESCRIPTION 
Outline for Contractor’s interface with Caltrain’s operating system, including track work, train 
control, and communications. 
 
1.02 
DEFINITIONS 
 
A. Caltrain:  AKA, The Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board (PCJPB) is a public agency 
comprised of three counties; San Francisco, San Mateo and Santa Clara, and is otherwise 
known as Caltrain. 
B. Railroad Contract Operator:  Under contract with the PCJPB to operate and maintain the 
Caltrain system. 
C. Operating System:  Includes, but is not limited to, the tracks on which trains and on-track 
equipment operate or may potentially operate, and in addition any facilities closely 
related to the operation of the railroad system including signal and communication masts, 
bridges, poles, cables, signal houses, tunnels, culverts, grade crossings and station 
platforms and facilities. 
D. Operating Envelope:  Anywhere within Caltrain property including any area that is an 
essential component of the operating system. 
E. Work Window:  A designated period of time with a specific beginning and ending time for 
which the track, signals, bridges and other Operating System elements within the 
Operating Envelope are modified or temporarily removed from service to allow 
construction or maintenance work to occur.  Written authority from Caltrain, and an 
approved Weekly Site Specific Work Plan (SSWP), is required before a Contractor is 
granted a Work Window.  The Contractor’s Work Window shall have specific geographic 
limits, which are defined in the approved SSWP.  Modifications or suspension of train and 
on-track equipment movements resulting from a Work Window involves written changes 
to the Railroad’s Rules of Train and On-Track Equipment Operations.  These written 
changes are known as Track Bulletins and are categorized as follows. 
(a) Multiple Track Window:  An approved Work window in which passenger/ 
commuter and freight train service on two or more adjacent main tracks is 
suspended or halted.  However, trains and on-track equipment associated with 
construction and maintenance activities may still operate on the tracks with 
suspended service but subject to the control of the Employee-in-Charge/ Flagman.   
329 of 734

--- page 330 ---
Standard OSI Rev 12/2013 
 
Within rail corridors with three or more main tracks passenger/ commuter and 
freight train service may operate on the remaining main tracks subject to “Form 
B” restrictions.  A “Form C” Track Bulletin will be issued by the Owner’s Railroad 
Contract Operator/ Operating Railroad of Record to suspend or modify the train 
service on the two or more adjacent main tracks. 
 
(b) Single Track Window:  An approved Work Window in which passenger/ commuter 
and freight service on a single main track is suspended or halted.  However, trains 
and on-track equipment associated with construction and maintenance activities 
may still operate on the single main track with suspended service subject to the 
control of the Employee-in-Charge/ Flagman.  Additionally, passenger/ commuter 
and freight train service will operate on the single main track or main tracks 
remaining in service subject to “Form B” restrictions.  A “Form C” Track Bulletin 
will be issued by the Owner’s Railroad Contract Operator/ Operating Railroad of 
Record to suspend or modify the train service on the single main track removed 
from service.  The limits of Single Track Windows will be a segment of track 
situated between the two nearest crossovers (universal or single).  Single Track 
Windows within a track segment will not be allowed to extend beyond the limits 
of the two nearest crossovers, and in the case of more than one Single Track 
Window construction work will not be allowed on two adjacent track segments. 
 
(c) “Form B” Work Window:  An approved Work Window in which passenger/ 
commuter, freight and all other trains and on-track equipment movements can be 
prohibited from entering the defined limits of a segment of track.  The “Form B” 
Work Window does not allow the Contractor to remove from service or modify 
the tracks, signals, bridges, stations or other elements of the Operating System in 
a manner which will delay or in any way affect the safe operation of the trains.  
The “Form B” Work Window allows the Contractor the ability to enter the 
Operating Envelope and perform construction activities subject to the conditions 
above.  An Employee-in-Charge/ Flagman from the Contract Operator will exercise 
strict control over the Contractor’s construction activities in conjunction with 
Roadway Worker Protection requirement to assure that the Contractor’s activities 
do not delay or impact train service. 
 
(d) “Track and Time”:  A period of time on a particular segment of track for which the 
Control Operator (Train Dispatcher) grants exclusive usage to a qualified employee 
of the Railroad. 
 
(e) Track and Time will be granted by the Control Operator specifying the authority 
number, track limits and time.  An employee (Flagman) granted Track and Time 
may occupy a track or tracks within the specified limits for the time period 
authorized.  The limits of Track and Time are normally designated by Control 
Points (CPs).  Track and Time is not normally used to protect work or trains for 
extended periods of time unless there are no other means readily available to do 
so. 
 
330 of 734

--- page 331 ---
Standard OSI Rev 12/2013 
 
(f) Exclusive Track Occupancy:  This refers to a method, such as those above, of 
establishing working limits on controlled track in which movement authority of 
trains and other equipment is withheld by the Control Operator or Train 
Dispatcher or restricted by a Flagman. 
 
F. Work Plan (WP):  A document submitted by the Contractor, detailing the activities 
associated with a particular element of work.  The Work Plan must include a description 
of the activity as well as the number of men and a list of the equipment required in the 
performance of the activity. 
G. Site Specific Work Plan (SSWP):  A program, plan, and schedule prepared and submitted 
by the Contractor three weeks prior to the proposed work and approved by the Engineer 
that accurately describes and illustrates the manner in which Work within the Operating 
Envelope will be accomplished, the impacts on any elements of the Operating System and 
the manner in which Work will be accomplished with the allotted Work Windows or 
protected period. 
H. Engineer/Project Manager:  Caltrain Engineer/Project Manager or other authorized 
representative. 
 
1.03 
WORK PLAN (WP)  
 
A. The Contractor will prepare a detailed Work Plan for each and every task associated with 
the work that is required by the Contract or any associated Field Instructions or Change 
Notices.  The Caltrain Project Manager will provide directions and assistance to the 
Contractor in the preparation and submittal of the Work Plan. 
 
B. WP’s shall include all activities necessary to perform construction tasks within the PCJPB 
Right of Way, including use of stations, sidings, temporary construction easements and 
proposed storage areas. 
 
C. WP’s shall include a description of any proposed changes to the Operating System 
between start and finish of the work, including any requested Work Windows.  
 
D. The WP shall conform to all other requirements applicable to the Contract Documents.  
 
E. The WP must contain a basic schedule of the work showing each activity and where and 
how it affects normal operation of the Operating System.  Each activity in the plan shall 
include all labor, materials and equipment required to complete the activity within the 
PCJPB allotted time period. 
331 of 734

--- page 332 ---
Standard OSI Rev 12/2013 
 
 
F. The WP must include Contingency Plans for putting the Operating System back in 
operation in case of an emergency or in case the Contractor fails to complete the work 
within the Work Window.  The Contingency Plans shall address the various stages of 
activities to restore the System. 
 
G. The WP’s must be of sufficient detail, clarity and organization to permit efficient review 
by the Engineer and approval at least 10 calendar days before the proposed work is 
performed.  The WP shall be submitted to the Engineer as follows. 
 
a) At least 21 calendar days prior to start of the subject work within the PCJPB Right of 
Way for work other than signal and overhead wire installation. 
 
b) At least 30 calendar days prior of the start of the work for work involving signal and 
overhead wire installation, such as signal system cutover, overhead wire involving 
third parties, etc. 
 
H. The Engineer may request explanations and changes to the WP to ensure that it conforms 
to the requirements of the Contract Documents.  If the WP is not acceptable, Contractor 
shall revise the WP to make it acceptable.  The Contractor is responsible for submitting a 
revised WP that can be reviewed and approved by the Engineer at least seven (7) days in 
advance of any work within PCJPB Right of Way. 
 
I. The Contractor will be informed if the WP is acceptable not less than seven (7) calendar 
days prior to the scheduled start of work within the PCJPB Right of Way.  Once the plan is 
accepted, Contractor shall muster the resources necessary to perform the work 
represented by the SSWP, so that necessary resources are available and ready for use, in 
general on the day which begins the week in which the work is to be accomplished.  At 
this time, the Engineer will make a final decision as to whether or not the work is to 
proceed as planned or will be canceled.  The prime consideration will be the stage of 
readiness of the Contractor, which the Contractor shall demonstrate to the Engineer. 
 
1.04 
WEEKLY SITE SPECIFIC WORK PLAN (SSWP)  
 
A. 
In addition to Work Plans, the Contractor shall submit a Site Specific Work Plan (SSWP) on 
a weekly basis three weeks in advance of the proposed work.  All SSWPs shall detail the 
proposed weekly events and activities, and include the Contractor’s request for Work 
Windows.  Approval of a WP or SSWP by the Engineer may require the placement of an 
appropriate protective divider (k-rail, snow fence, etc.) between construction operations 
and the operating system.  Contractor shall furnish and install protective dividers as 
specified by the Engineer.  The Caltrain Project Manager will provide directions and 
assistance to the Contractor in the preparation and submittal of the Site Specific Work 
Plan. 
332 of 734

--- page 333 ---
Standard OSI Rev 12/2013 
 
B. The Contractor shall furnish all labor, materials, and equipment as required to perform 
and complete the work within the approved work window.  The Contractor shall 
maintain the approved schedule in the SSWP. 
C. All work outlined in the SSWP with a potential to impact normal functioning of any part of 
the operating system shall include a detailed schedule of events indicating the expected 
hourly progress of each activity that has a duration of one hour or longer.  The schedule 
shall include a time at which all activities planned under the SSWP will be completed.  The 
SSWP shall also include the mobile phone numbers of individuals responsible for 
compliance with the approved SSWP.  Failure of the Contractor to complete the 
scheduled activities by the planned time or to put in place an approved contingency plan 
may adversely impact the operations of Caltrain.  In the event that Caltrain service is 
delayed by Contractor’s actions, damage will be incurred and liquidated damages will be 
assessed.  
D. The SSWP shall be a plan that describes the activities necessary to perform the work 
within the Operating Envelope and indicates which Work Plans will be utilized.  The plan 
shall explain each activity along with the proposed schedule to complete each item.  Each 
activity in the plan shall include all material and equipment required to complete the 
activity within the scheduled time period. 
E. The SSWP shall also include contingency plans for putting the system back in operation in 
case of an emergency or in case the Contractor fails to perform and complete the work on 
time.  Contingency plans shall address the various stages of construction. 
F. The contractor shall have a copy of the current Caltrain schedule.  Schedules are available 
at Caltrain Stations or on the Internet at www.caltrain.com. 
G. The SSWP will be submitted to the Engineer for review no later than the opening of the 
business day on the Monday three (3) weeks before the proposed start of work within the 
Caltrain property.  The Engineer may request explanations and changes to the SSWP, if 
the plan is not acceptable, the Contractor shall revise the plan accordingly. 
H. The Contractor will be informed if the SSWP is acceptable not less than three (3) calendar 
days prior to the scheduled start of work.  Once the plan is accepted, the Contractor will 
be prepared to perform the work represented by the SSWP. 
I. References herein to weeks mean the week starting with Monday, and the next six (6) 
days of the proposed work schedule. 
J. All work within Caltrain’s property requires an SSWP approval by Caltrain. 
K. No work will be permitted during weekday commute hours less than fifteen (15) feet 
horizontally from of the nearest rail until after 9:00 AM and prior to 3:00 PM.  Work 
closer than fifteen (15) feet from the nearest rail may require a night or weekend 
schedule.  Some work performed more than fifteen (15) feet horizontally from the 
nearest rail may be restricted to night and weekends when so required by the approved 
SSWP. 
333 of 734

--- page 334 ---
Standard OSI Rev 12/2013 
 
 
L. Materials and equipment shall not be piled, stored or parked when not in use closer than 
twenty-five (25) feet horizontally from the centerline of the nearest operating track. 
M. The placement of piles, forms, braces, shoring, falsework or other construction supports 
shall be in accordance with the current State of California, Department of Transportation 
(Caltrans) Falsework Manual, PCJPB Standards Volumes 1 and 2, PCJPB Engineering 
Standards for Excavation Support Systems, and PUC General Orders 26-D and 118 as 
applicable. 
i. Temporary overhead structures shall have a minimum vertical clearance of 
twenty-two (22) feet, six (6) inches above top of rail for all tracks and at any 
location under the structure.  Temporary overhead structures with proposed 
vertical clearance less than twenty-two (22) feet, six (6) inches above top of rail 
must have an exemption from the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) 
and approval of Caltrain. 
N. In general, open excavation areas shall be protected per OSHA regulations.  Open 
excavation areas adjacent to operating tracks shall be protected by walkways with handrails 
no closer than eight (8) feet, six (6) inches horizontally from the nearest operating track, if 
tangent, and nine (9) feet, six (6) inches if track is curved. 
 
1.05 
AVAILABILITY OF ACTIVE TRACKS: 
 
A. Active main line tracks and sidings are only available during Work Windows as approved 
by the Engineer. 
B. The Contractor does not have exclusive rights to the Work Windows.  The Contractor 
must share these Work Windows with other Contractors and current Owner’s Contract 
Operator. 
1.06 
CURRENT AND FUTURE CORRIDOR TRAFFIC 
 
The following is a general summary of train traffic in the rail corridor: 
 
A. Mainline - Current Owner Commuter Operations and UPRR freight traffic 
1. Weekday train service, both directions 
• Caltrain commute service per current timetable 
• 4 to 6 UPRR freight trains between 9 PM to 4 AM 
 
2. Saturday train service, both directions 
• Caltrain commute service per current timetable 
• 2 to 3 UPRR freight trains 
 
3. Sunday train service, both directions 
• Caltrain commute service per current timetable 
• 2 to 3 UPRR freight trains 
 
334 of 734

--- page 335 ---
Standard OSI Rev 12/2013 
 
4. Special Event Service 
• 3 to 4 trains each direction on days of San Francisco Giants Baseball home games 
• 3 to 4 trains each direction on days of Stanford Football home games 
• 3 to 4 trains each direction for other special events. 
 
5. Other passenger rail carriers in accordance with their published timetables, including 
but not limited to Amtrak Intercity, Altamont Commuter Express (ACE), and Capital 
Corridor all of which operates in Santa Clara County segment. 
 
B. 
Mainline - Future Owner Commuter Operations and UPRR freight traffic 
 
1. Owner’s and other operator’s commuter train traffic may vary in time and frequency 
over the course of the contract per published revisions to timetables. 
 
2. UPRR freight traffic is subject to change without notice at the discretion of UPRR. 
 
 
1.07 
SAFETY 
 
A. 
Employees of the Contractor scheduled or expected to perform work within Caltrain 
Property are required to have successfully completed, within the last twelve (12) 
months, Caltrain’s Roadway Worker Protection training program.  The Contractor shall 
forward to Caltrain records of those successfully completing the course. 
B. 
Roadway Worker Protection Act:  Contractor shall at all times comply with provisions 
of the Federal Rail Administration Regulation 49CFR214 (Roadway Worker Protection) 
as well as to the Permittor (Licensor) On-Track Safety Program. 
C. 
Zero Tolerance:  The Caltrain Zero Tolerance Policy is attached and made a part hereof. 
 
335 of 734

--- page 336 ---
Standard OSI Rev 12/2013 
 
 
APPENDIX – D 
 
Zero Tolerance Procedure 
OTS Rules Enforcement 
Amended 6/5/11 
 
Every individual performing work on the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board (PCJPB) right-of-way is 
both entitled to and responsible for a safe working environment.  The objective of this “Zero Tolerance 
Procedure” statement is to establish clear and concise standards for Roadway Worker Protection (RWP) 
compliance on the Caltrain system. 
 
This is a minimum requirement and any supervisor or manager of any group or organization working on 
the PCJPB right of way may set more stringent standards for their own employees. 
 
A. General 
1. The Zero Tolerance Procedure applies to all employees and contractors of the PCJPB and its 
contract operator or any other entity entering upon the Caltrain right-of-way for the purpose of 
performing work as a Roadway Worker, as defined   in the Caltrain On-Track Safety Rules. 
 
2.  The EIC will be responsible for overseeing the enforcement of Caltrain RWP requirements and 
all other applicable right-of-entry requirements for workers in his group.  The EIC will not allow 
anyone to work within his/her workgroup until all RWP requirements are met. 
 
B. Roadway Worker Protection Infractions 
 
Individual who are determined to be non-compliant with Caltrain’s RWP requirements will be subject to the 
following procedures: 
 
• 
First infraction – A written notice will be delivered to the non-compliant individual, the individual’s 
supervisor and the Caltrain Supervising Safety Officer – Rail.  A copy will be forwarded to the 
appropriate JPB manager.  The individual or work group must leave the right-of-way until the 
reason for the infraction is corrected. 
• 
Second infraction – The individual or work group will be banned for 5 days from the Caltrain right-
of-way with re-training within 7 days of infraction.  Notification procedures will be the same as with 
the first infraction. 
336 of 734

--- page 337 ---
Standard OSI Rev 12/2013 
 
 
• 
Third infraction – The individual or work group will be banned for 1 year from the Caltrain right-of-
way.  Notification procedures will be the same as with the first infraction 
• 
Fourth infraction – The individual or work group will be permanently banned from Caltrain right-of-
way.  Notification procedures will be the same as with the first infraction. 
 
In addition, any persons in a position of RWP responsibility (EIC, Watchman, etc.) will forfeit their 
Advanced RWP certification and will be required to re-train at the next scheduled Advanced RWP class 
following an infraction. 
 
Any infraction in which the individual cannot provide evidence of training will result in immediate removal 
from PCJPB right-of-way. 
 
Each infraction will be automatically removed from Caltrain records 3 years from the date of occurrence. 
 
C. Accountability 
 
Infractions to this procedure will be referred to and handled by Caltrain Department of Safety and Risk 
Management.  Refer by phone immediately, and then written follow up within 24 hours to the Project 
Manager and Rail Safety Officer – Construction/Engineering. 
 
Corrective actions or other follow up resulting from infractions covered by this procedure are the 
responsibility 
of 
the 
Resident 
Engineer, 
reporting 
back 
to 
the 
Rail 
Safety 
Officer 
– 
Construction/Engineering and the Project Manager. 
 
 
 
 
337 of 734

--- page 338 ---
Agreement 800899 
 
 
    
 
EXHIBIT E 
Insurance Terms 
INSURANCE 
All entities entering into License Agreements and Right of Entry Permits shall follow the below 
requirements.  All Permittees and Licensee’s shall be referred to as Licensee’s for the purposes of this 
section. 
The insurance requirements specified in this Section shall cover Licensee’s own liability and any liability 
arising out of work or services performed under this Agreement by any subcontractors, subconsultants, 
suppliers, temporary workers, independent contractors, leased employees, or any other persons, firms or 
corporations (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Agents”) that Licensee authorizes to work under this 
Agreement.  Licensee is required to procure and maintain at its sole cost and expense the insurance 
coverages subject to all of the requirements set forth below.  Such insurance shall remain in full force and 
effect throughout the term of this Agreement.  Licensee is also required to assess the risks associated with 
work to be performed by Agents under subcontract and to include in every subcontract the requirement that 
the Agent maintain adequate insurance coverages with appropriate limits and endorsements to cover such 
risks; the limit for the Commercial General Liability insurance in each subcontract shall not be less than $2 
million.  To the extent that any Agent does not procure and maintain such insurance coverage, Licensee 
shall assume any and all costs and expenses that may be incurred in fulfilling Licensee’s indemnity 
obligation as to itself or any of its Agents in the absence of coverage.  In the event Licensee or its Agents 
procure excess or umbrella coverage to maintain certain requirements outlined below, these policies shall 
also satisfy all specified endorsements and stipulations, including provisions that the Licensee’s insurance 
be primary without any right of contribution from the JPB.  Prior to beginning work under this Agreement, 
Licensee shall provide the JPB’s authorized insurance consultant, Insurance Tracking Services, Inc. (ITS), 
with satisfactory evidence of compliance with the insurance requirements of this Section, by submitting 
such evidence of compliance to the address indicated in C.1. below. 
A. 
MINIMUM TYPES AND SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
1. 
Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance.  
a. Workers’ Compensation with Statutory Limits and/or Federal Employer’s Liability 
(“FELA”) coverage (whichever is applicable) to its employees, as required by the 
Federal Employer’s Liability Act of 1908, applying to Interstate railroad employees, or, 
as required by Section 3700 et seq. of the California Labor Code, or any subsequent 
amendments or successor acts thereto, governing the liability of employers to their 
employees.  
 
b. If FELA applies, it shall be in accordance with federal statutes and have minimum limits 
of $10,000,000 per occurrence. 
 
c. If the California Labor Code requiring Workers’ Compensation applies, the Licensee 
shall also maintain Employer's Liability coverage with minimum limits of $2 million. 
 
d. Such insurance shall include the following endorsement as further detailed in the 
Endorsements Section below:   
 
- 
Waiver of Subrogation. 
 
 
338 of 734

--- page 339 ---
Agreement 800899 
 
 
    
 
2. 
Commercial General Liability Insurance. 
 
Commercial General Liability insurance for bodily injury and property damage coverage of 
at least $2 million per occurrence or claim and a general aggregate limit of at least $2 million.  
Such insurance shall cover all of Licensee’s operations both at and away from the project site.  
Such insurance shall not have any exclusion for Cross Liability or Cross-Suits.  In addition, for any 
construction and public works projects, the insurance shall not have any exclusion for Explosion, 
Collapse and Underground perils (xcu) and for construction or demolition work within 50 feet of 
railroad tracks, the contractual liability exclusion for liability assumed shall be deleted.  
a. This insurance shall include coverage for, but not be limited to:  
 
- 
Premises and operations. 
- 
Products and completed operations. 
- 
Personal injury. 
- 
Advertising injury. 
 
b. Such insurance shall include the following endorsements as further detailed in the 
Endorsements Section below: 
 
- 
Additional Insured. 
- 
Separation of Insureds Clause. 
- 
Primary and Non-Contributory wording. 
- 
Waiver of Subrogation. 
 
Products and completed operations insurance shall be maintained for three (3) years 
following termination of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
Business Automobile Liability Insurance.    
 
Business Automobile Liability insurance providing bodily injury and property damage 
coverage with a combined single limit of at least $2 million per accident or loss.  
a. This insurance shall include coverage for, but not be limited to:  
- 
All owned vehicles. 
- 
Non-owned vehicles. 
- 
Hired or rental vehicles. 
 
b. Such insurance shall include the following endorsements as further detailed in the 
Endorsements Section below: 
 
- 
Additional Insured. 
- 
Primary and Non-Contributory wording. 
- 
Waiver of Subrogation. 
 
4. 
Property Insurance. 
 
Property insurance with Special Form coverage including theft, but excluding earthquake, 
with limits at least equal to the replacement cost of the property described below. 
 
a. This insurance shall include coverage for, but not be limited to:  
  
- 
Licensee’s own business personal property and equipment to be used in 
performance of this Agreement. 
- 
Materials or property to be purchased and/or installed on behalf of the JPB, if 
any. 
- 
Builders risk for property in the course of construction. 
 
b. Such insurance shall include the following endorsement as further detailed in the 
339 of 734

--- page 340 ---
Agreement 800899 
 
 
    
Endorsements Section below: 
 
-     Waiver of Subrogation. 
 
 
6. 
Railroad Protective Liability Insurance.  
Prior to commencing demolition, construction or remodeling within 50 feet of railroad 
tracks, Licensee shall contact the JPB.  The JPB shall obtain Licensee’s Railroad Protective 
Liability insurance with limits of liability of $2 million per occurrence and $6 million in the 
aggregate.  The named insureds shall be the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, the San 
Mateo County Transit District, the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority, the City and County 
of San Francisco, TransitAmerica Services, Inc. or any successor Operator of the Service, and the 
Union Pacific Railroad Company.     
 
Coverage shall be on the RIMA policy form and include, but not be limited to:  
- 
Claims arising out of injury to or death of any person. 
- 
Physical loss or damage to or destruction of property including the JPB’s rolling 
stock and any resulting loss of use thereof. 
- 
Coverage for supervisory acts of railroad employees. 
- 
FELA coverage for railroad employees. 
- 
All other railroads operating on the right-of-way. 
- 
Pollution extension for fuels and lubricants brought onto the job location. 
 
On the Licensee’s commercial general liability insurance policy, the contractual liability exclusion 
for liability assumed shall be deleted. 
 
 
B. 
ENDORSEMENTS 
 
1. 
Additional Insured. 
The referenced policies and any Excess or Umbrella policies shall include as Additional 
Insureds the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, the San Mateo County Transit District, the 
Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority, the City and County of San Francisco, TransitAmerica 
Services, Inc. or any successor Operator of the Service, and the Union Pacific Railroad Company 
and their respective directors, officers, employees, volunteers and agents while acting in such 
capacity, and their successors or assignees, as they now, or as they may hereafter be constituted, 
singly, jointly or severally. 
 
2. 
Waiver of Subrogation. 
The referenced policies and any Excess or Umbrella policies shall contain a waiver of 
subrogation in favor of the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, the San Mateo County Transit 
District, the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority, the City and County of San Francisco, 
TransitAmerica Services, Inc. or any successor Operator of the Service, and the Union Pacific 
Railroad Company and their respective directors, officers, employees, volunteers and agents while 
acting in such capacity, and their successors or assignees, as they now, or as they may hereafter 
be constituted, singly, jointly or severally.    
 
3. 
Primary Insurance. 
The referenced policies and any Excess and Umbrella policies shall indicate that they are 
primary to any other insurance and the insurance company(ies) providing such policy(ies) shall be 
liable thereunder for the full amount of any loss or claim, up to and including the total limit of 
liability, without right of contribution from any of the insurance effected or which may be effected by 
the JPB.   
 
4. 
Separation of Insureds. 
The referenced policies and any Excess or Umbrella policies shall contain a Separation of 
Insureds Clause and stipulate that inclusion of the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, the San 
340 of 734

--- page 341 ---
Agreement 800899 
 
 
    
Mateo County Transit District, the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority, the City and County 
of San Francisco, TransitAmerica Services, Inc. or any successor Operator of the Service, and the 
Union Pacific Railroad Company as Additional Insureds shall not in any way affect the JPB’s rights 
either as respects any claim, demand, suit or judgment made, brought or recovered against the 
Licensee.  The purpose of this coverage is to protect Licensee and the JPB in the same manner as 
though a separate policy had been issued to each, but nothing in said policy shall operate to 
increase the insurance company's liability as set forth in its policy beyond the amount or amounts 
shown or to which the insurance company would have been liable if only one interest had been 
named as an insured. 
 
C. 
EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE  
 
1. 
All Coverages except Railroad Protective. 
Prior to commencing work or entering onto the Property, Licensee shall provide to 
Insurance Tracking Services, Inc. (ITS), the JPB’s authorized insurance consultant, a certificate of 
insurance with respect to each required policy to be provided by the Licensee under the 
Agreement. The required certificates must be signed by the authorized representative of the 
Insurance Company shown on the certificate.  The JPB Contract number and Project name 
shall be clearly stated on the face of each Certificate of Insurance. 
 
Submit Certificates of Insurance to: 
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board 
C/O Insurance Tracking Services, Inc. (ITS) 
P.O. Box 198 
Long Beach, CA 90801 
 
 
OR 
 
Email Address:  smt.certificates@instracking.com 
 
OR 
 
Fax: (562) 435-2999 
 
In addition, the Licensee shall promptly deliver to ITS a certificate of insurance with respect to each 
renewal policy, as necessary to demonstrate the maintenance of the required insurance coverage 
for the terms specified herein. Such certificate shall be delivered to ITS not less than three 
business days after to the expiration date of any policy. 
 
 
2. 
Railroad Protective. 
Prior to Licensee commencing work or entering onto the Property, the JPB will obtain the 
Railroad Protective Liability insurance.  However, Licensee’s Certificate of Insurance should state 
that the contractual liability exclusion for liability assumed has been deleted on the Licensee’s 
commercial general liability insurance policy,   
 
D. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
1. 
Notice of Cancellation.    
Each insurance policy supplied by the Licensee shall provide at least 30 days’ written 
notice to Licensee of cancellation or non-renewal.  Licensee must then provide at least 30 days’ 
prior written notice to the JPB’s authorized insurance consultant, Insurance Tracking Services, Inc. 
(ITS), if any of the above policies are non-renewed or cancelled.    
 
341 of 734

--- page 342 ---
Agreement 800899 
 
 
    
Submit written notice to: 
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board 
C/O Insurance Tracking Services, Inc. (ITS) 
P.O. Box 198 
Long Beach, CA 90801 
OR 
Email Address:  smt.certificates@instracking.com 
OR 
Fax: (562) 435-2999 
 
 
2. 
Acceptable Insurers. 
All policies will be issued by insurers acceptable to the JPB (generally with a Best’s Rating 
of A- 10 or better).   
 
3. 
Self-insurance. 
Upon evidence of financial capacity satisfactory to the JPB and Licensee’s agreement to 
waive subrogation against the JPB respecting any and all claims that may arise, Licensee’s 
obligation hereunder may be satisfied in whole or in part by adequately funded self-insurance.   
 
4. 
Failure to Maintain Insurance. 
All insurance specified above shall remain in force until all work to be performed is 
satisfactorily completed, all of Licensee’s personnel and equipment have been removed from the 
JPB property, and the work has been formally accepted.  The failure to procure or maintain 
required insurance and/or an adequately funded self-insurance program will constitute a material 
breach of this Agreement. 
 
5. 
Claims Made Coverage. 
If any insurance specified above shall be provided on a claim-made basis, then in addition 
to coverage requirements above, such policy shall provide that:  
a. 
Policy retroactive date coincides with or precedes the Licensee’s start of work 
(including subsequent policies purchased as renewals or replacements). 
b. 
Licensee shall make every effort to maintain similar insurance for at least three 
(3) years following project completion, including the requirement of adding all 
additional insureds. 
c. 
If insurance is terminated for any reason, Licensee agrees to purchase an 
extended reporting provision of at least three (3) years to report claims arising 
from work performed in connection with this Agreement. 
d. 
Policy allows for reporting of circumstances or incidents that might give rise to 
future claims. 
 
6. 
Deductibles and Retentions. 
Licensee shall be responsible for payment of any deductible or retention on Licensee’s 
policies without right of contribution from the JPB.  Deductible and retention provisions shall not 
contain any restrictions as to how or by whom the deductible or retention is paid.  Any deductible or 
retention provision limiting payment to the Named Insured is unacceptable. 
 
In the event that the policy of the Licensee or any subcontractor contains a deductible or 
self-insured retention, and in the event that the JPB seeks coverage under such policy as an 
additional insured, Licensee shall satisfy such deductible or self-insured retention to the extent of 
loss covered by such policy for a lawsuit arising from or connected with any alleged act or omission 
of Licensee, subcontractor, or any of their officers, directors, employees, agents, or suppliers, even 
if Licensee or subcontractor is not a named defendant in the lawsuit. 
 
342 of 734

--- page 343 ---
PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD 
SERVICE AGREEMENT 
FOR PCJPB USE ONLY 
PUC No. 
SPECIAL DESIGNATION 
(Location, Bridge No., Etc.) 
Sheet 1 of 1    
Delaware St., San Mateo 
County 
Main 
Mile Post 
SM 
N/A 
N/A 
Estimated Amount 
Preliminary Job No. 
Lease Audit No. 
PCJPB PROJECT No. 
 
$133,048.96 
 
 
TO BE PLACED ON ALL CORRESPONDENCE 
Est. Start Date 
Est. Completion Date 
 
Treasury Dept. receipt of funds confirmation 
May 2021 
July 2022 
 
Date: 
 
Ck #: 
 
By: 
 
 
Project Title: Delaware St. Sewer Relief 
Project Purpose:  
The Delaware Relief Sewer Project will construct approximately 3,175 LF (2,000 LF within the JPB R/W) of new highflow relief 
gravity sewer line that generally parallels the existing gravity sewer along Delaware Street. 
Company or Funding Agency (Applicant): 
Contact Person Regarding Billings: 
City of San Mateo  
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo , CA 94403 
Name: Deryk Daquigan 
 
Address: 330 West 20th Avenue 
 
City/State/Zip: San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Accounts Payable Address:  
Phone: 650-522-7287 
 
Same as above 
Fax: 
 
E-mail Address: ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
THE APPLICANT AGREES TO REIMBURSE THE PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD (PCJPB) FOR ALL ACTUAL COSTS IN 
PROVIDING THE SERVICES AND MATERIALS TO THIS PROJECT (INCLUDING APPLICABLE GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE OVERHEAD 
COSTS). AN ESTIMATE OF THOSE COSTS IS PROVIDED BELOW. APPLICANT ACKNOWLEDGES THAT ALL PCJPB EXPENSES DESCRIBED IN 
THE CATEGORIES LISTED BELOW WHICH ARE RELATED TO THE PROJECT ARE REIMBURSABLE. PAYMENT FOR PROJECTS WITH 
ESTIMATED COST OF LESS THAN $100,000 OR THAT ARE PROJECTED TO BE COMPLETED IN 90 DAYS OR LESS ARE DUE TO PCJPB BEFORE 
PROJECT WORK BEGINS. THE PCJPB WILL NOT AUTHORIZE WORK ON THIS PROJECT UNTIL THIS AGREEMENT IS EXECUTED AND 
PREPAYMENT HAS BEEN RECEIVED. PAYMENT OPTIONS (I.E. ESCROW ACCOUNT, SCHEDULED PRE-PAYMENTS, LETTER OF CREDIT ETC.) 
FOR PROJECTS LASTING MORE THAN 90 DAYS AND COSTING MORE THAN $100,000 MUST BE PRE-ARRANGED WITH, AND APPROVED BY, 
PCJPB’S CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (OR THEIR DESIGNEE). BILLINGS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT ARE DUE 30 DAYS FOLLOWING DATE OF 
INVOICE.  ANY AMOUNT DUE TO PCJPB THAT IS NOT PAID, OR CONTESTED IN WRITING, BY THE DUE DATE SHALL BEAR INTEREST AT 
THE RATE OF 1.5% PER MONTH, COMPOUNDED MONTHLY, FROM THE DUE DATE.  
 
Estimate Includes, but is not limited to: 
1. 
Permit Application Fee: $250.00 
2. 
PCJPB Flagging Costs and/or Signal Locator as necessary: Approximately $2,000.00 per flagger per day. 
3. 
PCJPB engineering review, document preparation, processing fees, OSI Oversight etc.: Approximately $285.50 per hour, as required. 
4. 
PCJPB administrative and legal review costs: As required. 
The estimated reimbursable cost of the work to be performed for this project through the PCJPB is: $132,798.96 
The estimated length of project is:        425      day(s) 
Railroad Protective Liability Insurance (RRPLI) will also be required and is not included in this cost estimate. RRPLI may be paid for through the PCJPB, to protect the 
PCJPB and its member agencies. (For estimated cost please phone Engineering Department Construction Manager listed below) 
 
PENINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD  
 
APPLICANT 
 
1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(COO-Rail) 
 
 
 
 
(Date) 
 
 
(Authorized Representative)  
 
 
 (Date) 
 
2) 
 
N/A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Approved as to Form - Counsel)  
 
(Date) 
 
 
(Title or Position) 
 
3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
*(Chief Financial Officer) 
 
 
 
(Date) 
 
 
*(Authorized Budget Officer) signature indicates 
          (Date)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
availability of budgeted funds in the amount specified above 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RETURN ORIGINAL TO:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
    
                          
Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board  
 
 
 
(Title or Position)  
Engineering Department attn.: Lou Tolentino 
 
 
 
 
 
P. O. Box 3006, San Carlos, CA  94070-1306 
(650) 508-7796 FAX (650) 508-7967  
 
 
*Not required if prepayment received  
 
 
 
9/13/02 
343 of 734

--- page 344 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4642
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Clean Water Program Labor Compliance Consultants – Amendments 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve amendments to agreements with Silveira Consulting and TSG Enterprises, Inc. DBA The Solis Group for on-call 
labor compliance services for the Clean Water Program in an amount not to exceed $200,000 each, for a total amount of 
$400,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreements in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo Clean Water Program (CWP) is a comprehensive program to upgrade the aging wastewater 
collection system and the wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) to provide reliable services for years to come. The success 
of the CWP depends on the completion of numerous complex construction projects funded by a variety of sources. 
State and Federal labor regulations apply to each project based on the scope and funding. To ensure compliance with all 
applicable laws, the City Council approved agreements with Silveira Consulting and TSG Enterprises, Inc. DBA The Solis 
Group, on May 6, 2019, to perform the labor compliance monitoring and reporting for the Clean Water Program. 
The initial on-call agreement amount was established to provide labor compliance support on the earlier WIFIA-funded 
construction projects such as WWTP GMP-1, Underground Flow Equalization System, Dale Ave Pump Station 
Improvements, and Lift Stations Improvement construction packages. Additional support is needed for the remaining 
WIFIA-funded components of the Clean Water Program, which include WWTP GMP-2 and GMP-3, Pacific Boulevard Force 
Main, Delaware Street Sewer Relief, El Camino/Flores Relief Sewers, and El Camino/28th Avenue/Colegrove Relief Sewers. 
Staff estimates an additional $200,000 should be added to each of the on-call agreements to support the monitoring and 
reporting through the completion of the WIFIA-funded construction projects. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funds for labor compliance services are budgeted in the respective projects. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Council action on this item is exempt from CEQA review under section 15061(b)(3) of the CEQA Guidelines, since entering 
into a professional services contracts will not have a significant effect on the environment. 
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). Council on June 6, 2016, certified the PEIR. In accordance with 
CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for the implementation of the Clean 
Water Program. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that was approved on July 16, 2018 (Addendum 1) and April 
344 of 734

--- page 345 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the Project evaluated in the PEIR and Addendum. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 1 (Silveira Consulting)
Att 2 – Amendment No. 1 (The Solis Group) 
STAFF CONTACT
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
345 of 734

--- page 346 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 1
Rev 9/17
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SILVEIRA CONSULTING, INC. FOR
CLEAN WATER PROGRAM ON CALL LABOR COMPLIANCE MONITORING AND REPORTING  
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Silveira Consulting, Inc. (“Silveira”) entered into an Agreement for Labor Compliance Monitoring and 
Reporting (“Agreement”) on May 06, 2019; and
WHEREAS, City and Silveira wish to amend the Agreement effective June 07, 2021, following 
the City Council approval to continue providing Labor Compliance Monitoring and Reporting services 
for the City of San Mateo Clean Water Program.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 8 – Payment of the Agreement is amended to change the not to exceed fee from 
“$200,000” to “$400,000”.
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and The Solis Group have executed this Agreement on 
June 07, 2021.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
Jamie Silveira, President
Silveira Consulting, Inc.
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
346 of 734

--- page 347 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 1
Rev 9/17
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND TSG ENTERPRISES, INC. DBA THE SOLIS GROUP FOR
CLEAN WATER PROGRAM ON CALL LABOR COMPLIANCE MONITORING AND REPORTING  
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
TSG Enterprises, Inc. dba The Solis Group (“TSG”), entered into an Agreement for Labor Compliance 
Monitoring and Reporting (“Agreement”) on May 06, 2019; and
WHEREAS, City and TSG wish to amend the Agreement effective June 07, 2021, following the 
City Council approval to continue providing Labor Compliance Monitoring and Reporting services for 
the City of San Mateo Clean Water Program.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 8 – Payment of the Agreement is amended to change the not to exceed fee from 
“$200,000” to “$400,000”.
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and The Solis Group have executed this Agreement on 
June 07, 2021.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
Terry E. Solis
Chairman and Secretary of the Board
TSG Enterprises, Inc. dba The Solis Group
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
347 of 734

--- page 348 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4665
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Sale of City-Owned Real Property Adjacent to Private Property and Abutting the Marina Lagoon 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize the sale of real property adjacent to private property on Los Prados Street and Lago 
Street, finding that the real property transfers serve the public convenience and necessity, and authorize the execution of 
a grant deed for the City-owned portion of Lot 16, Block 1 of the Los Prados Segundos Subdivision and a grant deed for the 
City-owned portion of Lot 17, Block 1 of the Los Prados Primeros Subdivision, by the Mayor in substantially the form 
presented.
BACKGROUND:
On April 18, 1966, the City Council approved Resolution 1966-35 (Attachment 4) to deed the City-owned, adjacent portions 
of Lot 16, Block 1 in the Los Prados Segundos Subdivision (“Lot 16”) and Lot 17, Block 1 in the Los Prados Primeros 
Subdivision (“Lot 17”), to the specific 1966 property owners listed in the Resolution. Resolution 1966-35 was created to 
win the support of the abutting property owners for the assessment to improve the Marina Lagoon in the mid-1960s. Most 
of the grantees recorded their deeds to own the adjacent portions of Lot 16 and 17 in fee. However, several property 
owners, including the 1966 property owners of Lot 10, Block 1 of the Los Prados Segundos Subdivision (“Lot 10”) and 
Lot 11, Block 1 of the Los Prados Primeros Subdivision (“Lot 11”) did not record their deeds from the City. 
The current property owners of Lot 10, Tyson Y. Shimomi and Bonnie S. Tai, requested an opportunity to acquire the 
portion of Lot 16 adjacent to their property and the current property owners of Lot 11, Chau-Chad Tsai and Wei-Hung Li 
requested an opportunity to acquire the portion of Lot 17 adjacent to their property. Resolution 1966-35 executed deeds 
with the people who owned the property in 1966 and does not authorize execution of modified deeds with the current 
property owners. Accordingly, new deeds are required if the title transfer is to be completed.
The new deeds (Attachment 1, Exhibit A and Exhibit C) duplicate the language, reservations, and conditions of the 1966 
deeds. Moreover, the new deeds maintain the easement reservations for emergency vehicle access and placement of 
dredge anchors. The conditions of the new deeds allow only perpendicular fencing, as approved by the appropriate City-
issued permits, and landscaping improvements. If at any time the City sees the reservations or conditions to be no longer 
applicable, City staff shall present a new resolution to City Council to abandon the reservations or conditions for all 
affected property owners. 
Municipal Code 3.62.040(b) authorizes the sale of real property with the approval and adoption of a resolution by the City 
Council, and upon findings that the sale would serve the public convenience and necessity. The subject portions of Lot 16 
and 17 are between private property and the Marina Lagoon and are inaccessible from the street. The size of the subject 
portion of Lot 16 is approximately 1,332 square feet. The size of the subject portion of Lot 17 is approximately 1,602 
square feet. Due to the incapability of independent development and the original intent to deed Lot 16 and 17 to the 
348 of 734

--- page 349 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
adjacent property owners in 1966, the real property serves little value to the City. 
Municipal Code 3.62.050(b) and 3.60 requires bids for the sale of real property within the awarding authority of City 
Council, except as exempted by Municipal 3.60.050. Municipal Code 3.60.050(b), which provides that competitive bidding 
is not required if bids would be impracticable. Due to the use limitations and location of Lot 16 and Lot 17, and the original 
intent to deed the properties as outlined in Resolution 1966-35, staff does not recommend going through the bid process, 
obtaining an appraisal of the property, or publication in a daily newspaper. The City is proposing to sell the portion of Lot 
16 and Lot 17 in an amount equal to costs required to recuperate staff and mapping consultant review time. To recuperate 
review time, the property owners have contributed deposits to mapping project accounts. The property owners shall pay 
off any outstanding balances of the mapping project accounts prior to recordation of the grant deeds. Tyson Y. Shimomi 
and Bonnie S. Tai and Chau-Chad Tsai and Wei-Hung Li have obtained legal descriptions and plats (Attachment 1, Exhibit B 
and Exhibit D) of the real property prepared by a licensed surveyor at their own cost. The City’s mapping consultant has 
reviewed the legal descriptions and plats to be technically correct. 
Therefore, staff recommends that the City Council adopt a new Resolution finding that the transfer of the real property 
serves the public interest and convenience by releasing the City of maintenance responsibility and granting the land as 
intended per Resolution 1966-35. This action will authorize the execution of two grant deeds: one to Tyson Y. Shimomi and 
Bonnie S. Tai and the other to Chau-Chad Tsai and Wei-Hung Li. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
To recuperate costs associated with review of the plat and legal descriptions and associated materials, the project 
applicants provided funds for mapping project accounts.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15312, this project is categorically exempt from CEQA as a sale of surplus 
government property, because the real property is not needed for City purposes and was offered for dedication to the 
previous adjacent property owner. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution with Exhibits
Att 2 – Los Prados Segundos Subdivision Map
Att 3 – Los Prados Primeros Subdivision Map
Att 4 – Resolution 1966-35 
Att 5 – Sample of 1966 Grant Deed
STAFF CONTACT
Karen Magallanes, Assistant Engineer
kmagallanes@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7576
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
349 of 734

--- page 350 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021) 
 
SALE OF CITY-OWNED REAL PROPERTY - MARINA LAGOON  
LOT 16, BLOCK 1 – LOS PRADOS SEGUNDOS 
LOT 17, BLOCK 1 – LOS PRADOS PRIMEROS 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City Council adopted Resolution 1966-35 to grant portions of Lot 16, Block 1 as 
delineated upon that certain map entitled Los Prados Segundos, San Mateo, San Mateo County, California (“Lot 
16”) and Lot 17, Block 1 as delineated upon the certain map entitled Los Prados Primeros, San Mateo, San 
Mateo County California (“Lot 17”) to the adjacent property owners; 
 
WHEREAS, the execution of grant deeds stated in Resolution 1966-35 granted portions of Lot 16 and Lot 
17 to the specific property owners in 1966; 
 
WHEREAS, the 1966 property owners of Lot 10, Block 1 of that certain map entitled Los Prados 
Segundos, San Mateo, San Mateo County, California (“Lot 10”) did not record their grant deed acquiring a 
portion of Lot 16 described on Exhibit B attached hereto; 
 
 
WHEREAS, the 1966 property owners of Lot 11, Block 1 of that certain map entitled Los Prados Primeros, 
San Mateo, San Mateo County, California (“Lot 11”) did not record their grant deed acquiring a portion of Lot 17 
described in Exhibit D attached hereto;  
  
WHEREAS, the current property owners of Lot 10 and Lot 11 request an opportunity to acquire portions 
of Lot 16 and Lot 17 from the City of San Mateo;  
 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.62.040(b) authorizes the sale of real property with the 
approval and the adoption of a resolution by the City Council and upon findings that the sale would serve the 
public interest and convenience;  
 
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b) provides that competitive bidding is not 
required when calling for bids would be impracticable; 
 
WHEREAS, Staff has prepared Grant Deeds (Exhibit A & C) granting the current property owners’ 
portions of Lots 16 and 17; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, this real property transfer is categorically exempt from CEQA as a sale of surplus government 
land. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that: 
 
1. The transfer of the real property described in Exhibit B & D to this Resolution serves the public 
interest, convenience and necessity which include: releasing the City of maintenance responsibility, 
and granting the land as intended per Resolution 1966-55.  
350 of 734

--- page 351 ---
2. Calling for bids would be impracticable, because the strips of real property are land-locked and are 
not usable for any purpose other than as part of Lot 10 and Lot 11. 
3. The properties shall be sold in the amount equal to recuperate staff and consultant review costs. 
4. Lot 16 as described in Exhibit B shall be granted to Tyson Y. Shimomi and Bonnie S. Tai. 
5. Lot 17 as described in Exhibit D shall be granted to Chau-Chad Tsai and Wei-Hung Li as Trustees of 
the Tsai Family Trust. 
6. The City Council authorizes execution of the grant deeds in substantially the form attached. 
RESOLUTION NO. (2021) adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, California, at a regular meeting 
held on , by the following vote of the City Council. 
351 of 734

--- page 352 ---
Exhibit ‘A’
Grant Deed for Lot 16, Block 1
352 of 734

--- page 353 ---
Page 1 of 2 
Government Code 6103: Exempt from 
Recording Fee 
WHEN RECORDED, MAIL TO: 
City of San Mateo 
Attn:  City Clerk 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
GRANT DEED 
THE UNDERSIGNED GRANTOR DECLARES: 
This document is recorded at the request of and for the benefit of the City of San 
Mateo, California, and therefore is exempt from the payment of a recording fee 
pursuant to California Government Code § 27383 and from payment of 
documentary transfer tax pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code 
§ 11922.
FOR VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the 
City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation of California (“Grantor”), hereby grants to 
TYSON Y SHIMOMI & BONNIE S TAI, as joint tenants, (“Grantee”), that certain real 
property in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, State of California, described 
on Exhibit B attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference (the “Property”): 
SUBJECT TO all existing public utility easements and reserving therein a 
nonpublic easement for the purpose of emergency travel parallel to Seal Slough (Marina 
Lagoon) by City vehicles, subject to the following conditions: 
(a) Minor shrubbery-type planting and landscaping improvements may be
located on the easement;
(b) After emergency access is used, the planting and landscaping
improvements will be restored by the City;
(c) Perpendicular fences will be permitted, subject to a permit from the City
Engineer; and
FURTHER RESERVING therein an easement for the purpose of placing dredge 
anchors and to connect cable line to which dredges may be attached between anchors 
along Seal Slough (Marina Lagoon) frontage. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
353 of 734

--- page 354 ---
Page 2 of 2 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused this instrument to be 
executed as of the date indicated. 
*** SIGNATURES TO BE NOTARIZED*** 
Dated:  __________________, _____ 
“GRANTOR” 
City of San Mateo 
________________________ 
Mayor 
By: 
____________________________ 
Its: 
___________________________ 
Dated:  _____________________, _____ 
“GRANTEE” 
______________________________ 
By: 
Its: 
 
______________________________ 
By: 
Its: 
ATTEST: 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
____________________________ 
______________________________ 
Patrice M. Olds, 
Gabrielle Whelan, 
City Clerk 
Assistant City Attorney 
354 of 734

--- page 355 ---
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the 
individual who signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the 
truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document. 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
 
| 
COUNTY OF __________________| 
On _____________________________, before me, ___________________________, 
the undersigned Notary Public, personally appeared __________________________, 
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is 
subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the 
same in his/her authorized capacity, and that by his/her signature on the instrument the 
person, or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument. 
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that 
the foregoing paragraph is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
Signed by: ___________________________________ 
Notary Public, State of California 
355 of 734

--- page 356 ---
Exhibit ‘B’
Legal Description and Plat for 
Lot 16, Block 1
356 of 734

--- page 357 ---
Page 1 of 1 
 
EXHIBIT “A” 
LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR 
TRANSFER AREA 
FROM CITY OF SAN MATEO TO LANDS OF SHIMOMI AND TAI  
  
3223 LOS PRADOS 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, CA. 
 
 
REAL PROPERTY IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA,  
DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
ALL OF THAT PORTION OF LOT 16, BLOCK 1, ADJOINING LOT 10, BLOCK 1, AS SHOWN ON THAT 
CERTAIN MAP, ENTITLED "LOS PRADOS SEGUNDOS, SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, 
CALIFORNIA", FILED FOR RECORD IN THE OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF THE COUNTY OF SAN 
MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ON JUNE 3RD, 1959 IN VOLUME 51 OF MAPS, AT PAGES 28 AND 
29; MORE PARTICULARY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
BEGINNING AT THE MOST EASTERLY CORNER OF SAID LOT 10;  
THENCE FROM SAID POINT OF BEGINNING ALONG THE NORTHEASTERLY LINE 
OF SAID LOT 10, ALSO BEING THE SOUTHWESTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT 16 North 28°14’27” West 
65.75 FEET; TO THE MOST NORTHERLY CORNER OF SAID LOT 10; 
THENCE North 63°46’48” East 20.01 FEET TO A POINT ON THE NORTHEASTERLY BOUNDARY LINE 
OF SAID LOT 16;  
THENCE ALONG SAID BOUNDARY LINE South 28°14’27” East 67.47 FEET; TO A POINT OF 
INTERSECTION WITH THE PROLONGATION OF THE SOUTHEASTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT 10; 
THENCE ALONG SAID PROLONGATION South 68°40’33” West 20.15 FEET TO THE POINT OF 
BEGINNING; 
 
EXHIBIT "B", PLAT TO ACCOMPANY LEGAL DESCRIPTION, ATTACHED HERETO AND BY THIS 
REFERENCE MADE A PART HEREOF. 
 
CONTAINING 1,332 SQUARE FEET, MORE OR LESS. 
   
Legal Description Prepared Under the Supervision of: 
                                                                                                                                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             _________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Andrew K. Holmes, PLS 4428 
 
 
 
 
 
 
License Expires 9/30/21 
 
357 of 734

--- page 358 ---
&nbsp;
358 of&nbsp;734

--- page 359 ---
Exhibit ‘C’
Grant Deed for Lot 17, Block 1
359 of 734

--- page 360 ---
Page 1 of 2 
Government Code 6103: Exempt from 
Recording Fee 
WHEN RECORDED, MAIL TO: 
City of San Mateo 
Attn:  City Clerk 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
GRANT DEED 
THE UNDERSIGNED GRANTOR DECLARES: 
This document is recorded at the request of and for the benefit of the City of San 
Mateo, California, and therefore is exempt from the payment of a recording fee 
pursuant to California Government Code § 27383 and from payment of 
documentary transfer tax pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code 
§ 11922.
FOR VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the 
City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation of California (“Grantor”), hereby grants to 
CHAU-CHAD TSAI & WEI-HUNG LI, as Trustees of the Tsai Family Trust, 
(“Grantee”), that certain real property in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, 
State of California, described on Exhibit D attached hereto and incorporated herein by 
this reference (the “Property”): 
SUBJECT TO all existing public utility easements and reserving therein a 
nonpublic easement for the purpose of emergency travel parallel to Seal Slough (Marina 
Lagoon) by City vehicles, subject to the following conditions: 
(a) Minor shrubbery-type planting and landscaping improvements may be
located on the easement;
(b) After emergency access is used, the planting and landscaping
improvements will be restored by the City;
(c) Perpendicular fences will be permitted, subject to a permit from the City
Engineer; and
FURTHER RESERVING therein an easement for the purpose of placing dredge 
anchors and to connect cable line to which dredges may be attached between anchors 
along Seal Slough (Marina Lagoon) frontage. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
360 of 734

--- page 361 ---
Page 2 of 2 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused this instrument to be 
executed as of the date indicated. 
*** SIGNATURES TO BE NOTARIZED*** 
Dated:  __________________, _____ 
“GRANTOR” 
City of San Mateo 
________________________ 
Mayor 
By: 
____________________________ 
Its: 
___________________________ 
Dated:  _____________________, _____ 
“GRANTEE” 
______________________________ 
By: 
Its: 
 
______________________________ 
By: 
Its: 
ATTEST: 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
____________________________ 
______________________________ 
Patrice M. Olds, 
Gabrielle Whelan, 
City Clerk 
Assistant City Attorney 
361 of 734

--- page 362 ---
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the 
individual who signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the 
truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document. 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
 
| 
COUNTY OF __________________| 
On _____________________________, before me, ___________________________, 
the undersigned Notary Public, personally appeared __________________________, 
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is 
subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the 
same in his/her authorized capacity, and that by his/her signature on the instrument the 
person, or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument. 
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that 
the foregoing paragraph is true and correct. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
Signed by: ___________________________________ 
Notary Public, State of California 
362 of 734

--- page 363 ---
Exhibit ‘D’
Legal Description and Plat for 
Lot 17, Block 1
363 of 734

--- page 364 ---
Page 1 of 1 
 
EXHIBIT “A” 
LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR  
TRANSFER AREA 
FROM CITY OF SAN MATEO TO LANDS OF TSAI TRUST  
  
1567 LAGOS 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, CA. 
 
REAL PROPERTY IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA,  
DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
ALL OF THAT PORTION OF LOT 17, BLOCK 1, ADJOINING LOT 11, BLOCK 1, AS SHOWN ON THAT 
CERTAIN MAP, ENTITLED "LOS PRADOS PRIMEROS, SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, 
CALIFORNIA", FILED FOR RECORD IN THE OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF THE COUNTY OF SAN 
MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ON APRIL 6TH, 1959 IN VOLUME 51 OF MAPS, AT PAGES 5 AND 6; 
MORE PARTICULARY DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
BEGINNING AT THE MOST EASETERLY CORNER OF SAID LOT 11;  
THENCE ALONG THE NORTHEASTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT 11, ALSO BEING THE SOUTHWESTERLY 
LINE OF SAID LOT 17 North 45°44’27” West 77.85 FEET, TO THE MOST NORTHERLY CORNER OF 
SAID LOT 11; 
THENCE North 31°43’07” East 20.49 FEET TO A POINT ON THE NORTHEASTERLY BOUNDARY LINE 
OF SAID LOT 17; 
THENCE ALONG SAID BOUNDARY LINE South 45°44’27” East 82.30 FEET, TO A POINT OF 
INTERSECTION WITH THE PROLONGATION OF THE SOUTHEASTERLY LINE OF SAID LOT 11 
THENCE ALONG SAID PROLONGATION South 44°15’33” West 20.00 FEET TO THE 
THE POINT OF BEGINNING; 
 
EXHIBIT "B", PLAT TO ACCOMPANY LEGAL DESCRIPTION, ATTACHED HERETO AND BY THIS 
REFERENCE MADE A PART HEREOF. 
 
CONTAINING 1,602 SQUARE FEET, MORE OR LESS. 
   
                                                                                                                                    
Legal Description Prepared Under the Supervision of:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             _________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Andrew K. Holmes, PLS 4428 
 
 
 
 
 
 
License Expires 9/30/21 
 
364 of 734

--- page 365 ---
&nbsp;
365 of&nbsp;734

--- page 366 ---
u
0 |

4

OWNER'S CERTIFICATE
We hereby certify that we are the owners of, or have some right,

title or interest in and to the real property included within the subdivision
shown upon this map, and that we are the only persons whose consent is
necessary to pass a clear title fo said property, and we consent fo the
making of said map and subdivision as shown within the blue border /ines;
and we hereby dedicate for public use the Streets designated as ‘Los Peabos’,
BAHIA’ 'LLano! and '5'Emergency Vehicle Access"as shown on said map within sard subdivision,

We also hereby dedicate for public use all easements for public utilities,
anchors and for drainage purposes under, on or over those certain
parcels of land designated as '"RU.E., AL and "S.DE. respectively on
Said map within said subdivision ; such parcels of land to be kept
open and tree from buildings and structures of any kind.

We also hereby dedicate for public use easements for wire clearance
over those certain parcels of land designated as 'WC.E."0n said

map within said subdivision, Any structures or appurtenances thereto that lie
within Such “W.CE.” Shall be limited to a maximum height of 15° above lof grade.
The above mentioned “/5 Emergency Vehicle Access” shall be open to vehicular traffic only
ot discretion of the City of San mateo, and ithe abbutting owners shall have no access’
hereto without permission of Said City.
r “ a ‘ AS OWNERS

ARCHER DEVELOPMENT CORR, a Calitogag corporation

As TRUSTEES
CITY Ti7LE INSURANCE COMPANY, @ California corporation
A

wi eo Dram

ez ‘Ae 22a Zehy 60 oe
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 55
County oF Los ANGELES.’
On thisL# day of APRIL _ 1959, before me Lows F Efor BECK
@ Notary Public in and for the County of Los Angeles, State of California,
residing therein, duly commissioned and swern, personally appeared

Deowalo A. SIMONSEN. , known ta me to be the PRES /0ENT-

AEkoY A. FERR iN ___, known to me to be the ASST. a of the
ARCHER DEVELOPMENT CORP., the corporation that executed the
within instrument, and known to me to be the persons who executed the
same upon behalf of the corporation named therein and acknowledged
to me that such corporation executed the same.

/N WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and attixed my
official seal, rhe vay and year in this certitrcate tirst above wriffen.
My Commission Expires: kK“

DECEMBER IY, [159 jeKGh Deslic is and for the County oF
Los Angeles, State of California

STATE OF CALIFORNIA 3.55
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO; ~~

On thisd3! day of Apc: | ,/959, before me, Coola Allen_,
a Notary Public in and tor the County of San Mateo, State of California,
residing therein, duly commissioned and sworn, personally appeared
Keonard Teesten known to me to be the kece President and
Wl. Downs known tome fo be the Asst Sec'y ___of the
CITY TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, the corporation that executed the
within instrument and known to me to be the persons who executed the
some upon behalf of the corporation named therein and acknowledged
to me that such corporation executed the same.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and attixed my
official secl, the day and year in this cerkificate first obove written.

My Commission Expires: Zz. L

Clober 381196) ofary Public in and for the County of
San Mateo, State of California

i il iti

SAN MATEO
SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

WILSEY AND HAM -
SCALE: I"=100'

ENGINEERS & PLANNERS
FEBRUARY, 1959

BASIS OF BEAR/NGS

"UNIT No.! WESTSHORE SAN MATEO SAN MATEO COUNTY,
CALIFORNIA", as recorded in the office of the County Recorder
of said County.

A// distances and dimensions are shown in feet and decimals thereof.

The blue border indicates the boundaries of the land subdivided
by this map.

© Indicates Standard Concrete Monument to be set in handhole

"RUE." Indicates Public Utilities Easement
"S.0E." Indicates Storm Drain Easement
"WCE" Indicates Wire Clearance Easement
"AE." Indicates pole line Anchor Easement

CITY CLERK'S CERTIFICATE

LWillam LOFarrel|, City Clerk of the City of San Mateo,
State of California, hereby certity thot the City Council of said
City at its regular meeting held on the 4” day of (May ;
1959, duly approved the map shown hereon, authorized its
recordation and accepted on behalt of the public all Streets,
Roeds and Utilities Easements as shown and designated on said
map as being offered for dedication for public use in conformity
with the terms of said offer of dedication.

——— 2 14.1959

the City of —

oli toreya 3 P :
‘

‘City Clerk
Son Matege

Gy Toy

CITY ATTORNEYS CERTIFICATE
Approved as ro form.

28

LOS PRADOS SEGUNDOS

CITY ENG/NEER'S CERTIFICATE

N.8. Smith, City Engineer of the City of San Mateo, Stare of
California, hereby certify that I have examined this map; that the
subdivision as Shown hereon is substantially the same as it appeared
on the tentative map and any approved alterations thereof: that
all of the provisions of the California "Subdivision Map Act of
1943", as amended, and any local ordinance applicable at the
time of approval, have been complied with; and that Lam satistied
that this map is technically correct.

pote: May Lf 1959 L, Ve AA,

City Engineer - City of San Mateo

VOL
s)|

ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE

LCT Blair, Registered Civil Engineer of the State of California,
hereby certify that this map correctly represents a survey made
under my direction during the month of December, 1958; that said
survey 1s true and complete as shown; that the monuments are of
the character and occupy the positions indicated (or will be set in
such positions) and are (or will be) sutticient to enable the sur-
vey to be retraced.

Dated: 4ori /_, 1959 we LE Les

C.T. Blair - Registered Civil
Engineer - Reg. No. 8724

CITY PLANNING COMM/SSIONS CERTIFICATE

The City Planning Commission of the City of San Mafeo, at
its regular meeting held on the 24” day of February ,/959, duly
approved the within map entitled "Los PRADOS SEGUNDOS” and
does hereby recommend to the City Council of said City that safd
map be approved.

City Planning Commission of the City of San Mateo

a a

Chhirman Secretary

COUNTY RECORDER'S CERTIFICATE
Filed tor record af the reguest of CITY TITLEINSURANCE CO. __
this__3_ day of JUNE _/959, at 50. minutes
past _2.RM. 7 Volume _5\_ of Maps at page?®29, Records of San
Mateo County, California.

FILE No. 55350 R.__ eth Tirsk.
County Recorder
Chief Deputy

SHEET 1 OF 2 SHEETS

592003 - EV.

366 of 734


--- page 367 ---
SB ae

ca od

LOS PRADOS SEGUNDOS

SAN MATEO
SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

WILSEY AND HAM -_ ENGINEERS & PLANNERS
SCALE! I"= 100' FEBRUARY, 1959

ane cae

Lor /6 15 subject in its entirety to an easement for ingress $ egress over same
to Seal Slough as granted by deed to City of San Mateo of record in Book 2795 0.R.455, >

20! W.C.E. ENTIRELY
COVERING LOT /6—~

Ni26'09ng +}.
LBS
OS else
als
3

TNs.
|

ei

4

1 Ilg
Sly
| i,
tI
8 ||
yl

ah eg 4 T reiettancencr

Ser Il sae

Il

ABanoent D
RIF C7

ARCHER

SHEET 2 OF 2 SHEETS

592003 -EY.

367 of 734



--- page 368 ---
LOS PRADOS PRIMEROS —

~ OWNER'S CERTIFICATE
We hereby certify that we are the owiers af, or have some right,
title or interest in and to the real property included within the subdivision ~
shown upon this map; and that we are the only’ persons whose consent /s
necessary fe pass @ clear title fo sara property, and we consent > the
making of said map and subdivision as shown within the blue border nes;
and we hereby dedicate for public use ai! Streets and Roads as shown
on said map within said subdivision.
We also hereby dedicate ter public use all easements for pubhe utilities,
anchors and for erainage purposes under, on or over those certain
parcels of land designated as "PU.E, 4.E."and."S.DE."respectively on
said map within said subdivision; such parcels of land fe be kept
_qpen and free from buildings and structures of any kind.
We also hereby dedicate tor public use easements for wire clearance
aver those certain parcels of land designated as WCE.” on said
map within said subdivision.

AS OWNERS
ARCHER DEVELOPMENT CORP, a California corporation

ets fradent

AssZ SAV
AS TRUSTEES

og STATE OF CALIFORNIA “iss,
’ COUNTY OF LO$ ANGELES.’
On Mis la day of MARCH ,1959, before me, Wena £ GRoT BECK
@ Notary Public in and for the County of Los Angeles, State of California,
_ residing therein, daly commissioned ahd sworn, personally appeared
| Dewar. Simons tal , known fo me to be the _PRESLOENT. and
; Lkkey A. FERRIN , known te me to be tre ASST SEc'y __of the
_ ARCHER DEVELOPMENT CORP., the corporation that executed the
within instrument, and known to me Pobe the persons whe executed
“the same upon behal? of the corporation named therein and acknow-
| tedged fo me that such corporation executed the same.
- IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my
offic/al seal, the day and year in this certihicate first above written.
My Commission Expires:
OscengeR 161457 & ma Td the County of
Los Angeles, State of Ca/itorma

STATE OF CALIFORNIA iss
COUN, 3

OF SAN MATEO.’
ONtis [eth day of March, 1959 before me, (rvace G Lompolls
@ Notary Public iin and for the County of Son Mateo, State of California, :
residing therein, duly commissione 1 and sworn, personally cppeared
\ eeste ,known tome to be the Lit resident and
WiC, Downs __ , known tome to be the Fsst, _Seere tary of the
CITY TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, the corporation that executed the
within instrument, and known to me fo be the persons who executed the
same upon behalf of the corporation named therein and acknowledged
to me that such corporation executed the same.
IW WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my
official! seal, the day and year in this certificate first above written.
My Commission Expires: .
Move. (460 _._ Notary Publfe idand tor the County of
San Mateo, State of California

SAN MATEO
SAN MATEO COUNTY,

WILSEY AND HAM -
SCALE: 1'=100'

ENGINEERS & PLANNERS
JANUARY, 1959

4

BASIS OF BEARINGS

"UNIT No.1 WESTSHORE SAN MATEO SAN MATEO COUNTY,
CALIFORNIA’ as recorded in the office of the County Kecorder
oF said County.

(ee All distances and dimensions are shown iin feet and decimal thereof.

The blue border indicates the boundaries of the land subdivided
by this map.

© Indicates Standard Concrete Monument fo be set in hand hele
© Indicates existing Concrete Monument

"RUE" Indicates Public Utilities Easement

"6.DE.” Indicates Storm Drain Easement

"'WC.E" Indicates Wire Clearance Easement

AE” Indicates pole line Anchor Easement

"LE" Indicates Ingress and Eg-ess Easement

Vie CLERK'S CERTIFICATE

I Wens).O' FARR BLL City Clerk of the City of San Mateo,
State of California, hereby certify that the City Council of said
City at its regular meeting held on the le" day of MAgcH
1959, duly approved the map shown hereon, outhor/zed its
recordation and accepted on behalf of the public all Streets,
Roads and Utilites Easements as shown and designated on said
map as being offered for dedication for public use in conformity

with the terms of said offer of dedication.

Dated: (ech 27,1959 a CDeiseet
City Ao. Y the City of

San Mateo, California

S crv ATTORNEYS CERTIFICATE
Approved as fo form.

G A L| FO R N | A “CITY ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE

I, N.B, Smith, City Engineer of the City of San Mateo, State of
California, hereby certity that I have examined this map; that the
subdivision as shown hereon 1s substantially the same as it appeared
on the tentative map and any approved alterations thereof; that
al/ of the provisions of the California "Subdivision Map Act of
1943", as amended, and any /oca/ ordinance applicable at the
time of approval, have heen complied with; and that l am satistied *
that this map 1s technically correct. a

bate: Hn 14 09 Ld bk ‘
City | aietee City of San Mateo

1,5
ht

ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE

I, C7. Blair, Registered Civil Engineer of the State of California,
hereby certity that this mop correctly represents a survey made
under my direction during the tnonth of December, /958 ; that said
survey /s true and complete as shown; that the monumentrgre of

the character and cccupy the positions indicated ( or. wil) Bevaghst

such positions) ard are (or will be) sufficient fa ib |e, Pe wiles

vey to be retraced. hein § ae

aio

Dated: March, fb 1, 1959

‘
Ps
6,
w

Ef Blair - Registre
Engineer - Reg. No. 872¢ —

ee PLANNING COMMISSIONS CERTIFICATE
The City Planning Commission of the City of San Mateo, at
its regular meeting held on the 26! day of leavary— 1/959, alely
approved the within map entitled "Los PRADOS PRIMEROS” and
does hereby recommend to the City Counci/ of said City that soid
map be approved.

City Planning Commission of the City of San Marleo vj

4, (oeil. del by Ze a

Chaitman

ceoiviag RECORDER'S CERTIFICATE
Filed fer record at the reguest of CITY TITLEINSURANCE CO.
i this © _ day of APRIL __,/959, af 13_ minutes
past_4 PM. in Volume 5\_ of Maps at page 5§.6, Records of San
Mateo County, California.

FILE No. 36243 R. __

By: beansetd Bartiauy.

Chief Deputy’ — 7

Teh

7 ~~ County Recorder

SHEET | OF 2 SHEETS



--- page 369 ---
ez, 2)

S295
SEF Alse: fe} PE77
e

YG

Fi LOS PRADOS PRIMEROS

SAN MATEO
SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

WILSEY AND HAM - ENGINEERS & PLANNERS
\ SCALE :1"= 100! JANUARY, 1959

16 7-

oF Cc |

oe ee ree subject in its entirety to an easement for ingress ¢ egress
20 Mice. ENTIRELY oe over same fo Sea/ Slough as granted by deed to City of San Mateo of record |
oe jin Book 2795 0.R. #55.
|

\rsre
cw 7073

maeOsSN"E

eed

ARc
vee DEVELOPMENT

SHEET 2 OF 2 SHEETS

&
~ “N & F.B.-A43 592002 EV.
-



--- page 370 ---
R

OFFICE C-

RGR:tr 4/7/66 50c

RESOLUTION NO. 35 (1966)

AUTHORIZING EXECUTION OF GRANT DEEDS

wa

- iD: wae
=: MARINA LAGOON ACCESS EASEMENT - LOS PRADOS PRIMEROS
eas AND LOS PRADOS SEGUNDOS

ial

RESOLVED, by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, Cali-
fornia, and it does hereby FIND, DETERMINE, and ORDER that:

1. The public interest, convenience and necessity require the
execution of grant deeds to:

ESTERO MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT

SIMONE A. BOURLA, a widow

HAROLD M. McRAE and LaMARJ C. McRAE, his wife, in Joint Tenancy

STANLEY B. NORTON and ANN NORTON, his wife, in Joint Tenancy

ELSIE E. SCHINDLER, an unmarried woman

WELLIAM G. GLANG and GRACE I. GLANG, his wife, as Joint Tenants

NORMAN R. TYRE, a married man

OTTO STEWART and RUTH R. STEWART, his wife, as Joint Tenants

CHARLES S, SILVERMAN and SOPHIE SILVERMAN, also known as SOPHIA
SILVERMAN, his wife, as Joint Tenants

PAUL LAURINAITIS and RUTH LAURINAITIS, his wife, in Joint
Tenancy ;

GORDON BRANDRITH and ISABEL BRANDRITH, his wife, in Joint Tenancy

JESSIE H. HUNGERFORD, an unmarried woman, an undivided i inter-
est as a tenant in common and to H. R. HUNGERFORD, UR.
and JUDITH HUNGERFORD, his wife, an undivided 4 interest
as Joint Tenants

ROBERT C. QUINLAN, a single man, and KEITH A. KING, a single man,
in Joint Tenancy

NORMAN R. TYRE, a married man

for portions of Lot 17, Block 1, Los Prados Primeros, and to:

RALPH R. LEE and MARJORIE L. LEE, his wife, as Joint Tenants
JOHN I. CABRAL, JR., and ROSE V. CABRAL, his wife, in Joint
Tenancy
DELBERT TOPHAM and EVELYN TOPHAM, his wife, in Joint Tenancy
DUANE B. BUSCH, an unmarried man
ARTHUR L. REIMCHE and ETHEL E. REIMCHE, his wife, as Joint
Tenants
GLENN A. KEPLEY and LORENE N. KEPLEY, his wife, as Joint Tenants
VALERIE K. GILL
DELMAR ROBERT BENNETT, a single man
LEE B. STORELEE and GEORGIA R. STORELEE, his wife, as Joint
Tenants
CHARLES F. PARKER and IRENE PARKER, his wife, in Joint Tenancy
GORDON D. BRANDRITH and ISABEL I. BRANDRITH, his wife, as Joint
- Tenants
RALSTON ENG and ESTHER ENG, his wife, as Joint Tenants
RICHARD A. GERSHENSON and ELAINE J. GERSHENSON, his wife, as
Joint Tenants
DON D. CEDERLIND and DOROTHY J. CEDERLIND, his wife, in Joint
Tenancy
CHARLES O, WRIGHT and ELIZABETH C. WRIGHT, his wife, in Joint
Tenancy
for portions of Lot 16, Block 1, Los Prados Segundos.
2. The Mayor of this City be, and he is hereby, authorized to
sign said deeds, and each of them, in behalf of said City, and the
City Clerk be, and he is hereby, instructed to attest the signature

of the Mayor and affix the corporate seal of said Cit

ner Abe ls Gree, ke °

City Clerk

4 fre, Kes 194s - @&fibspy On
370 of&nbsp;734


--- page 371 ---
<t hereby certify the foregoing to be a true copy of
resolution adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo,
California, at a regular meeting thereof held on the _i8th day
of April , 196_, by the following vote of
the members thereof: |

AYES, and in favor thereof, Councilmen: VAN GUNDY, MURRAY,
WAYNE and GARVEY

NOES, Councilmen: NONE

ABSENT, Councilmen: ARCHIBALD

&nbsp;
371 of&nbsp;734


--- page 372 ---
for the purpose of placing dredge
dredges may be attached between anchors

CALF FH¥vVoOFs

ZET99R8



--- page 373 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4093
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 7, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Downtown Affordable Housing Site Planning-Related Costs – Fund Appropriation
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $488,000 from the Construction Services Fund to planning application projects for the 
Downtown Affordable Housing Sites project, located at 480 East Fourth Avenue known as Kiku Crossing, to cover planning-
related costs.
BACKGROUND:
The Downtown Affordable Housing Sites project located at 480 E. Fourth Avenue, now known as Kiku Crossing, received its 
planning approvals on August 17, 2020.  At that time the Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement (DDLA) between 
the City of San Mateo and MidPen Housing, the developer, to construct the housing and public parking located at 400 E. 5th 
Avenue was also approved. The affordable housing project will provide 225 affordable family rentals built on a City-owned 
site currently used as a parking lot. The City will provide the land, as well as direct financial assistance to the project to 
ensure a range of affordable housing units. As part of the financial assistance, the DDLA includes provisions to waive the 
City’s typical planning and building-related fees.
The actual planning-related costs for this project have been tracked in three planning application project accounts to cover 
the preliminary planning project review, the environmental review, and the planning application process. Accrued 
expenses to date include consultant reports, costs associated with public hearings, and City staff time.  Normally the 
developer pays the City planning application fees to reimburse the City for these costs. The purpose of this resolution is to 
appropriate funds from Construction Services Fund to cover the accumulated expenses that normally would be paid by the 
developer.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Staff recommends Council approve an appropriation in the amount of $488,000 from Construction Services Fund to 
reimburse the following project accounts:
Project Account Name
Total Expenses
Account Number
Pre-Application Planning Project Review            
$14,819 
317818-pa077
Environmental Review
$185,039 
317818-pa995
Planning Application
$288,142
317819-pa033
There is no impact to the General Fund for taking this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
373 of 734

--- page 374 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7223
374 of 734

--- page 375 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
APPROPRIATE $488,000 FROM AVAILABLE FUND BALANCE IN THE CONSTRUCTION SERVICES FUND INTO 
PROJECTS 317818 AND 317819 FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING AT 480 E. FOURTH AVENUE
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires Council approval by resolution for supplemental 
appropriations to the City’s budget; and
WHEREAS, on August 17, 2020, the City entered into a Disposition, Development and Loan Agreement 
(DDLA) with MidPen Housing to develop 225 affordable rental units and a public parking garage at City-owned 
sites at 480 E. Fourth Avenue and 400 E. Fifth Avenue; and
WHEREAS, the terms of the DDLA include City financial support of the project, including waiving City 
Building and Planning fees; and
WHEREAS, Planning Application related costs have been tracked in three Project Accounts, including 
consultant reports, costs associated with public hearings, City staff time, and other miscellaneous costs; and
WHEREAS, an appropriation of $488,000.00 from the Construction Services Fund to the Project accounts 
is necessary to reimburse the costs associated with the Development.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does 
not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical 
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.
The Council authorizes the appropriation of $488,000 of Construction Services fund balance to 
reimburse the following Projects:
Project Account Name
Total Expenses
Account Number
Pre Application Planning Project Review         
$14,819 
317818-pa077
Environmental Review
$185,039 
317818-pa995
Planning Application
$288,142
317819-pa033
375 of 734

--- page 376 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4615
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Downtown Parking Equipment Network Hosting and Materials – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an exception to the City’s competitive bidding requirement and approve an agreement with 
IPS Group, Inc. for parking equipment network hosting and materials in the amount of $300,000 and authorize the Public 
Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
City Council approved an agreement with IPS Group, Inc. in October 2019 for the construction and implementation of the 
Downtown Parking Technology Project. The project was advertised through a competitive bid process, and IPS Group, Inc. 
was the lowest responsive and responsible bidder for the project. This project included the installation of new parking pay 
stations and meters to replace outdated equipment and to standardize equipment throughout the Downtown San Mateo. 
The new equipment accepts payment through cash, credit card, and mobile payment options. 
The construction of the Downtown Parking Technology Project is nearing completion and a new agreement with IPS 
Group, Inc. is necessary for monthly network hosting services required by the parking revenue equipment and for credit 
card transaction fees, as well as for providing proprietary parts and materials on an as-needed basis to maintain the 
equipment in good working condition. 
The City previously maintained several different types of parking equipment in the downtown and had similar agreements 
with each vendor for its hosting and financial transaction services. This agreement, with a transition to IPS equipment, will 
replace other agreements and cover all parking revenue equipment. The term of the agreement is approximately two 
years.
The federal grant-funded Downtown Parking Technology Project was awarded based on a competitive bid process. The 
equipment installed as part of the project is proprietary to the company, and it is impracticable to execute a competitive 
RFP process for network hosting and materials/parts for proprietary items. Staff recommends approval of the agreement 
pursuant to SMMC 3.60.050(b), which allows City Council to approve agreements utilizing an alternate purchasing process 
where going out to bid is impracticable.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The new agreement is roughly equivalent to what had previously been budgeted for parking equipment materials and 
network hosting with various vendors, and estimated credit card transaction fees. Sufficient funding has been budgeted.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
376 of 734

--- page 377 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
377 of 734

--- page 378 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. 
(2021)
APPROVING CONTRACT FOR DOWNTOWN PARKING NETWORK HOSTING AND MATERIALS AND 
FINDING THAT COMPETITIVE BIDDING WAS IMPRACTICAL AND AUTHORIZING THE USE OF QUOTES 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo conducted a competitive process in 2019 seeking 
construction of the Downtown Parking Technology Project and awarded the $1,459,404 contract to 
IPS Group, Inc.; and
WHEREAS, IPS Group Inc. has installed new parking revenue equipment for Downtown San 
Mateo, including pay stations and parking meters pursuant to the 2019 agreement; and
WHEREAS, an annual agreement for network hosting and materials/parts is necessary to 
maintain the new parking revenue equipment in working condition; and 
WHEREAS, the Public Works Department has identified that the services and materials to be 
provided under this agreement are available only from IPS Group, Inc.; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b) provides that exceptions to the City Council 
Award Procedures are possible if the Council makes a finding concurrent with the award that calling 
for bids for that particular agreement is impracticable, unavailing, or impossible; and
WHEREAS, this agreement is not a project as defined by the California Environmental Quality 
Act in that it can been seen with certainty that it will have no significant impact on the physical 
environment.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and RESOLVES
that:
1. Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 3.60.050(b), it is found that the approval of the agreement 
for downtown parking equipment network hosting and materials with IPS Group, Inc. is in the 
City’s best interest because the services are proprietary to IPS Group, Inc. and conducting a 
competitive bid process for the agreement would be impracticable. Other vendors are not able 
to provide the necessary network hosting or materials for the installed equipment. 
2. The agreement in the amount of $300,000 is approved.
3. The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the agreement.
378 of 734

--- page 379 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 1 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
AGREEMENT WITH IPS GROUP, INC. 
FOR PARKING EQUIPMENT MATERIALS AND HOSTING SERVICES 
FOR  
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO PARKING 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and IPS GROUP, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation ("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is 7737 
Kenamar Court, San Diego CA 92121. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain parking equipment materials and hosting services 
hereinafter described. 
 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these parking equipment 
materials and hosting services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such 
services and CONTRACTOR has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the 
manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws.  
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.  
 
379 of 734

--- page 380 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 2 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
 
CONTRACTOR or subcontractor shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, or 
engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and qualified to 
perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code.  For the work performed for the 
City, the CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall pay the workers at the prevailing wage rate as 
determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this locality.  This project is subject 
to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work. 
CITY shall keep, at its own cost and expense, the Equipment in good repair, condition and working 
order. 
 
 
CITY shall notify CONTRACTOR of any need for warranty repair or required repair work and will 
coordinate the return process with CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CITY shall provide first line maintenance for all meter mechanisms for the term of this 
Agreement as referred to in CONTRACTOR’S standard warranty contained in Exhibit B. 
 
 
CITY shall use the Equipment in the proper manner and shall comply with and conform to all 
national, state and local laws and regulations in any way relating to the possession, use or 
maintenance of the Equipment. 
 
 
CITY shall be fully responsible, at its own cost and expense, to provide and maintain a merchant 
account and associated merchant account services using a CITY designated third party provider. 
 
 
CITY shall keep the Equipment free and clear of all levies, liens and encumbrances, except those 
created by this Agreement. CITY shall pay, when due, all charges and taxes (local, state and federal), 
which may now or hereafter be imposed in conjunction with this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall be completed on or about June 30, 
2023. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR in an amount of 
$300,000 a fee pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit A, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
380 of 734

--- page 381 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 3 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONTRACTOR.  CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 – WARRANTIES 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall provide a full 12-month warranty on all Equipment as described in Exhibit B 
in terms of the CONTRACTOR warranty contained therein. Extended warranties are available for an 
additional fee. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall provide technical support via telephone Mondays through Fridays from 8:00 
AM to 4 PM PST. CONTRACTOR shall provide on-site technical support within 24 hours Mondays 
through Fridays from 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM. CONTRACTOR shall ensure the availability of current 
manuals for any future upgrade or new services. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall bear risk of loss of the Equipment, including any damage sustained during 
transportation to the delivery site. Risk in and to the Equipment will pass to CITY on delivery. Title in 
and to the Equipment will transfer to CITY upon payment. 
 
 
THE WARRANTIES CONTAINED IN THIS AGREEMENT ARE CONTRACTOR’S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE 
WARRANTIES. THE EXTENT OF CONTRACTOR’S LIABILITY FOR A WARRANTY CLAIM IS LIMITED TO THE 
REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT OF THE DEFECTIVE EQUIPMENT.CONTRACTOR AFFIRMATIVELY EXCLUDES 
ANY AND ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS OR REPRESENTATIONS (EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ORAL 
OR WRITTEN), WITH RESPECT TO THE SERVICES PROVIDED INCLUDING ANY AND ALL IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS OR SUITABILITY FOR ANY 
PURPOSE (WHETHER OR NOT CONTRACTOR KNOWS, HAS REASON TO KNOW, HAS BEEN ADVISED, OR 
OTHERWISE IN FACT AWARE OF ANY SUCH PURPOSE) WHETHER ARISING BY LAW OR BY REASON OF 
CUSTOM OF THE TRADE. 
 
SECTION 9 – INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
 
 
CITY exclusively and solely owns all CITY-Data and the intellectual property therein. 
CONTRACTOR further agrees to execute any documents necessary for CITY to perfect, memorialize, or 
record CITY’s ownership rights in CITY Data. For purposes of this Agreement, “CITY Data” means all 
intellectual property of CITY, including but not limited to occupancy data, financial records, 
programming configurations of the parking meters, GIS location and rates, and other operational data 
and tailored operational programming. 
381 of 734

--- page 382 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 4 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
 
 
CONTRACTOR may not provide or disclose any CITY Data to any third party without CITY’s prior 
written consent. 
 
 
Any subcontract entered into by CONTRACTOR relating to this Agreement, to the extent 
allowed hereunder, must include like intellectual property provisions to ensure that CITY’s ownership 
rights in CITY Data are preserved and protected as intended in this Agreement. Failure of CONTRACTOR 
to comply with this requirement or to obtain the compliance of its subcontractors with such 
obligations constitutes a breach of this Agreement and will subject CONTRACTOR to damages paid to 
CITY and the imposition of all sanctions allowed by law, including but not limited to termination of this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents and warrants that it owns or has acquired all requisite rights and 
licenses to use all intellectual property embodied, practiced or employed in CONTRACTOR Equipment 
and software being used by CITY in terms of this Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR hereby grants CITY, including its departments, commissioners, officials, officers, 
employees, consultants, and agents all the rights and licenses required to use CONTRACTOR Equipment 
and software. Such rights and licenses are non-assignable, non-transferable and non-exclusive and 
specific only to use within the CITY during the term of this Agreement. 
 
 
All pre-existing and independently developed intellectual property, and any derivation thereof, 
including but not limited to designs, models, inventions, processes, methodologies, software, 
associated documentation, software upgrades, modifications and customizations, copyrightable 
material and other tangible and intangible materials authored, and combinations thereof, prepared, 
created, made, delivered, conceived or reduced to practice, in whole or in part, by CONTRACTOR and 
provided to CITY (“Pre-Existing and Independently Developed IP”) will at all times remain the sole and 
exclusive property of CONTRACTOR and/or its vendors. Nothing in this Section or elsewhere in this 
Agreement shall be construed as assigning, selling, conveying, or otherwise transferring any ownership 
rights or title in CONTRACTOR Pre-existing and Independently Developed IP.  
 
 
CONTRACTOR understands the nature of public information and the requirement of the CITY to 
adhere to all rules and laws that apply to public information, such as the Freedom of Information Act, 
Public Records Act, and the like. However, CITY also understands that the CONTRACTOR Equipment 
and software contain intellectual property, copyrights, and trade secrets that do not exist in the public 
domain. Therefore, to the extent permitted by the California Public Records Act, CITY agrees that it 
shall not knowingly agree, assist, or sell any Equipment or allow any third party to gain access to the 
Equipment, software, or documentation provided by CONTRACTOR for the purposes of reverse 
engineering, evaluation or any other purpose without the prior written consent of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
The provisions of this Section shall survive expiration or termination of this Agreement. 
 
 
 
 
382 of 734

--- page 383 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 5 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
SECTION 10 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 11 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 14 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 15 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
383 of 734

--- page 384 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 6 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
SECTION 16 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 17 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 18- COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 19 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 20 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
384 of 734

--- page 385 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 7 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 21 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 22 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
 
To CITY: 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
To CONTRACTOR: 
IPS Group, Inc. 
Attn:  Chad Randall 
7737 Kenamar Court 
San Diego CA 92121 
 
SECTION 23 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
 
385 of 734

--- page 386 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 8 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and IPS GROUP, INC. have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Public Works Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Chad Randall 
Its Authorized Agent 
Chief Operating Officer 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gabrielle Whelan 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
Brian Webber 
Treasurer and General Counsel 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services and Rates 
Exhibit B: 
Limited Warranty 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements  
 
386 of 734

--- page 387 ---
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES / PAYMENT RATES 
For Equipment and Services as listed below: 
• 
119 IPS MS1 Multi-Space Pay Stations to replace McKay pay stations and garage pay on foot 
machines 
o 
80 Pay Stations located On-Street 
o 
39 Pay Stations located Off-Street (Surface Lots and Garages) 
• 
386 IPS MK5 Single-Space Smarter Meters to replace on-street coin only single-space meters 
• 
Multi- and single-space meter spare parts as needed $128,209.92 per year 
 
 
 
MS1 Multi-Space Pay Station (On-Street) 
Qty 
Units 
Unit Price Cost Per Month 
MS1 Pay Station (Purchased) 
(Pay by Plate, Contactless, BNA) 
80 
Per Unit 
 PAID  
 PAID  
Secure Wireless Gateway/Data Fee and Meter 
Management System Software License Fee 
80 
Per Unit per 
Month 
$55.00 
$4,400.00 
Secure Credit Card Gateway Fee  
(per transaction) 
80 
Per 
Transaction 
 Included  
 Included  
 
 
 
 
MS1 Multi-Space Pay Station (Off-Street) 
Qty 
Units 
Unit Price Cost Per Month 
MS1 Pay Station (Purchased) 
(Pay by Plate, Contactless, BNA) 
39 
Per Unit 
 PAID  
 PAID  
Secure Wireless Gateway/Data Fee and Meter 
Management System Software License Fee 
39 
Per Unit per 
Month 
$25.00 
$975.00 
Secure Credit Card Gateway Fee  
(per transaction) 
39 
Per 
Transaction 
$0.13 
$1,875.90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MK5 Single Space Meter (On-Street) 
Qty 
Units 
Unit Price Cost Per Month 
MK5 Single Space Smart Meter 
386 
Per Unit 
 PAID  
 PAID  
Secure Wireless Gateway/Data Fee and Meter 
Management System Software License Fee 
386 
Per Unit per 
Month 
$6.25 
$2,412.50 
Secure Credit Card Gateway Fee  
(per transaction) 
386 
Per 
Transaction 
$0.13 
$1,020.76 
387 of 734

--- page 388 ---
PRICING 
SINGLE-SPACE AND SENSORS 
Capital and Ongoing Costs 
Product/Service 
Price per unit 
M5™ IPS Credit Card-Enabled Single-Space Meter  
(includes 12-month warranty, RFID tag) 
$495.00 
Optional: Add BLE capability 
$65.00 
Optional: Add NFC contactless payment capability 
$45.00 
Shipping (Ex Works – to be quoted based on volume and ship to zip code) 
TBQ 
Installation and Training (to be quoted based on scope) 
TBQ 
Optional: Extended Warranty (per 12 month period) 
$50.00 
Optional: Extended Warranty (48 month period) 
$170.00 
 
M5™ Ongoing Fees 
Option 1 
Option 2 
Secure Wireless Gateway/Data Fee and Meter Management 
System Software License Fee (per meter per month) 
$6.25 
$8.75 
Secure Credit Card Gateway Fee (per transaction) 
$0.13 
$0.06 
Optional:  Merchant Processing Fees (per transaction) 
To be quoted based on volume 
Optional:  API or Data Integration Services 
To be quoted based on need 
Vehicle Detection Sensors Capital and Ongoing Costs 
Product/Service 
Price per unit 
In-Ground Vehicle Detection Sensors (includes 12-month warranty) 
$295.00 
Dome Mount Vehicle Detection Sensors (includes 12-month warranty) 
$295.00 
Pole Mount Vehicle Detection Sensors (includes 12-month warranty) 
$295.00 
Shipping (Ex Works – to be quoted based on ship to zip code) 
TBQ 
Installation (to be quoted based on scope) 
TBQ 
 
 
 
 
388 of 734

--- page 389 ---
Vehicle Detection Sensors Ongoing Costs 
Cost per space per month 
Management System/Base Data Fee 
$3.50 
Optional: Real Time Reporting Fee 
$2.75 
 
Note: This pricing is FOB, IPS Group, San Diego, CA. Sales taxes and shipping charges will be added to the final invoice.  IPS 
shall have the right to adjust Agreement pricing due to increases in Inflation as published by the US Bureau of Labor 
Statistics for All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for the U.S. City Average compounded annually. 
Spare Parts 
M5™ parking meter Spare Part Pricing 
M5™ 
Single Space Electronic Meter Mechanism 
$495.00  
Card Entry Keypad Assy 
$55.00  
Hybrid Card Reader 
$52.00  
Coin Validator 
$75.00  
Complete Top Cover (with Lexan insert) 
$75.00  
Lexan for Top Cover 
$25.00  
Coin Entry Slot 
$2.00  
M5 Battery Pack (H3) 
$35.00  
M5 Battery Pack (H5)  (available on the 147/247 models only) 
$45.00  
Solar Panel / Communications Board 
$185.00  
Main Board 
$185.00  
Display Board 
$95.00   
Display Board with NFC 
$140.00   
BLE Beacon Upgrade 
$65.00  
RFID Tag 
$10.00  
MK5 Batter Charger (daisy chain charging unit) 
$125.00  
Card Reader Cleaning Card featuring Waffletechnology® (40) per box 
$54.00  
 
 
 
389 of 734

--- page 390 ---
Sensor Spare Part Pricing 
In-Ground 
On-Pole 
In-Dome 
IPS vehicle detection sensor 
$150.00 
$295.00 
$295.00 
Meter Comms Board (for sensor) 
$150.00  
NA  
NA  
Battery Replacement (per D-cell) 
NA 
$20.00 
$20.00 
 
Note: This pricing is FOB, IPS Group, San Diego, CA. Sales taxes and shipping charges will be added to the final invoice.  IPS 
shall have the right to adjust Agreement pricing due to increases in Inflation as published by the US Bureau of Labor 
Statistics for All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for the U.S. City Average compounded annually. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
390 of 734

--- page 391 ---
MULTI-SPACE METERS 
MS1™ Multi-Space  
Price Per Unit 
IPS MS1™ Multi-Space Pay Station – Pay and Display, Pay-by-Space, or Pay-by-
Plate (Monochrome Display, Card and Coin, Solar powered, Includes 12-month 
warranty)  
$5,850.00 
IPS MS3™ Multi-Space Pay Station – Pay and Display, Pay-by-Space, or Pay-by-
Plate (Color Display, Card and Coin, Solar powered, Includes 12-month 
warranty)  
$6,600.00 
Shipping and Installation (per unit) – During normal business hours.  
(Ex Works –to be quoted based on final scope of work.  Concrete work is not 
included) 
TBQ 
Optional:  Contactless Card Reader (NFC) 
$399.00 
Optional: Add for Bill Note Acceptor (BNA) and 1 Stacker 
$1,250.00 
Optional: Additional Coin Box 
$195.00 
Optional: Additional BNA Stacker 
$230.00 
Optional: MS1 Extended Parts Warranty (per 12 month period) 
$295.00 
Optional: MS3 Extended Parts Warranty (per 12 month period) 
$395.00 
 
MS1™ Ongoing Costs 
On-Street 
Off-Street 
Secure Wireless Gateway/Data Fee and Meter Management 
System Software License Fee (per meter per month) 
$55.00 
$25.00 / $55.00 
Secure Credit Card Gateway Fee  
(per transaction) 
Included 
$0.13 / $0.06 
Optional:  Merchant Processing Fees (per transaction) 
To be quoted based on volume 
Optional:  API or Data Integration Services 
To be quoted based on need 
 
Note: This pricing is FOB, IPS Group, San Diego, CA. Sales taxes and shipping charges will be added to the final invoice.  IPS 
shall have the right to adjust Agreement pricing due to increases in Inflation as published by the US Bureau of Labor 
Statistics for All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for the U.S. City Average compounded annually. 
391 of 734

--- page 392 ---
Spare Parts 
 
Spare Parts List 
MS1™ 
MS3™ 
Standard Card Reader Assembly 
$129.00 
$149.00 
AC power upgrade kit 
$150.00 
$150.00 
Coin Validator Assembly 
$75.00 
$95.00 
Bill Note Acceptor Assembly (with 600 note 
stacker)* 
$1,250.00 
$1,250.00 
Additional 600 note stacker cartridge* 
$230.00 
$230.00 
Solar Panel Replacement Kit 
$795.00 
$895.00 
Main Operating Board  
$995.00 
$995.00 
4G wireless modem assembly 
$250.00 
$250.00 
LCD Display only (monochrome) 
$295.00 
n/a 
LCD Display only (color) 
n/a 
1,100.00 
Armored Display Glass   
$125.00 
$125.00 
Thermal Printer   
$795.00 
$795.00 
4-key Horizontal Keypad 
$69.00 
$69.00 
4-key Horizontal Keypad 
$69.00 
n/a 
4-key Vertical Keypad 
$69.00 
n/a 
6-key Horizontal Keypad 
$75.00 
$75.00 
Pay-by-Space Keypad Assembly 
$195.00 
$195.00 
Pay-by-Plate Alphanumeric Keypad Assembly 
$225.00 
$225.00 
Coin Shutter 
$195.00 
$195.00 
Contactless Payment Reader (NFC) 
$735.00 
$735.00 
E-lock 
$175.00 
$175.00 
Battery 32Ah (rechargeable) 
$324.00 
n/a 
Battery 72Ah (rechargeable) 
$450.00 
$450.00 
Additional Large Coin Canister   
$195.00 
$195.00 
Additional Small Coin Canister   
$95.00 
$95.00 
Standard Paper Rolls  (standard) 
 approx 2000 3" tickets (.0045” thick) 
$25.00 
$25.00 
392 of 734

--- page 393 ---
Sticky Back Paper Rolls  
approx. 2400 2.75" tickets (.004" thick) 
$30.00 
$30.00 
 
Note: This pricing is FOB, IPS Group, San Diego, CA. Sales taxes and shipping charges will be added to the final invoice.  IPS 
shall have the right to adjust Agreement pricing due to increases in Inflation as published by the US Bureau of Labor 
Statistics for All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for the U.S. City Average compounded annually. 
 
REPLACEMENT PARTS & REPAIR SERVICES: 
IPS shall provide warranty and non-warranty repair services based out of our office in San Diego, CA.  For 
repair services not able to be first achieved on-site by the Customer or by phone, these meters will be 
returned to IPS at 7737 Kenamar Court, San Diego, CA, 92121, for repair or rework and IPS will endeavor to 
ship within 3-4 weeks of receipt, depending on the quantities received and work schedules.  ALL RETURNS 
REQUIRE AN “RMA” NUMBER prior to shipment to IPS in order to avoid additional delays.  An RMA may be 
requested by contacting the responsible IPS customer support manager, by contacting the IPS Help desk, 
phone ((877) 630-6638 or (858) 404-0607) or email (customersupport@ipsgroupinc.com).  All items 
returned to IPS must be securely package to avoid further damage in shipment and all shipments will be via 
Ground Freight Service unless expedited service and payment of associated fees are requested. Automated 
RMA tracking, including work performed to repair meters, can be viewed at any time using IPS meter 
management system. 
 
Product/Service 
Price per unit 
Single Space M3 ™ Non-Warranty repair work (includes parts/labor) 
$125.00 + 
shipping 
Single Space M5™  Non-Warranty repair work (includes parts/labor) 
$95.00 + 
shipping 
Multi-Space MS1™ 
Non-Warranty repair work  
To be quoted 
On-site technical services:  shall be quoted to include labor, travel costs, 
accommodation, car rental and per diem costs.  Spare Parts shall be quoted and 
added to final costs based on the identified needs. 
$150 per 
hour or $950 
per day 
Shipping costs for any of the above shall be added to the final invoice 
 
 
Note: This pricing is FOB, IPS Group, San Diego, CA. Sales taxes and shipping charges will be added to the final invoice.  IPS 
shall have the right to adjust Agreement pricing due to increases in Inflation as published by the US Bureau of Labor 
Statistics for All Items Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) for the U.S. City Average compounded annually. 
 
 
  
393 of 734

--- page 394 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 10 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
EXHIBIT B 
 
LIMITED WARRANTY 
394 of 734

--- page 395 ---
IPS Limited Warranty 
IPS will provide a limited parts warranty for any new meter or sensor product manufactured and supplied by IPS for 
12 months under normal use. The warranty protects against defects in materials and workmanship from the point of 
installation or 15 months from the date of delivery, whichever is sooner, and 90 days from the date of delivery 
received in the case of spare or repaired products.  Software Services are provided “as-is” and IPS shall provide bug 
fixes at no cost during the contract term. 
  
Additional Warranty Provisions:  IPS must have the opportunity to assist in the initial deployment and system 
installation.  Repair or replacement under warranty of any defective product (including any meter or subcomponent) 
does not extend the warranty period for that product or subcomponent. IPS will either repair or replace products or 
subcomponents, at our discretion, that are found to be defective within the defined warranty period, with 
transportation costs pre-paid by the customer. Returns for credit will only apply once IPS has received defective 
product (including any meter or subcomponent) and confirmed that defects were within the warranty period and are 
covered under the terms and conditions of the warranty provided. IPS strongly recommends that customers pre-
purchase spare parts inventory for immediate access.  Defective parts can be replaced immediately from customer 
stock and IPS shall replace such components upon receipt and determination of defect. On-site labor is explicitly not 
included in this limited warranty.  Customer shall be sufficiently trained to perform all on-site work, including meter 
or sub-component removal/replacement.  IPS can provide additional on-site services under a separate maintenance 
agreement or quoted on an as-needed basis. THE WARRANTIES CONTAINED IN THE AGREEMENT DOCUMENTS ARE 
IPS’S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE WARRANTIES.   THE EXTENT OF IPS’S LIABILITY FOR A WARRANTY CLAIM IS LIMITED 
TO THE REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT OF THE DEFECTIVE EQUIPMENT OR DEFECTIVE SERVICE OR SOFTWARE AT 
THE SOLE OPTION OF IPS.  IPS AFFIRMATIVELY EXCLUDES ANY AND ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS, OR 
REPRESENTATIONS (EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ORAL OR WRITTEN), WITH RESPECT TO THE EQUIPMENT AND/OR 
SERVICES OR SOFTWARE PROVIDED INCLUDING ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, 
MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS OR SUITABILITY FOR ANY PURPOSE (WHETHER OR NOT IPS KNOWS, HAS 
REASON TO KNOW, HAS BEEN ADVISED, OR IS OTHERWISE IN FACT AWARE OF ANY SUCH PURPOSE) WHETHER 
ARISING BY LAW OR BY REASON OF CUSTOM OF THE TRADE.    
 
Exclusions:  Warranty voided with use of imitation or non-genuine IPS replacement parts, un-authorized alterations, 
abuse, vandalism, improper installation by customer, handling or general misuse to the equipment (hardware or 
software), including attempted repairs that result in damage.  Warranty specifically excludes any consummable items 
such as paper, batteries, etc.  Software warranty is void if usernames and/or passwords are shared with 3rd parties, 
or allowance of 3rd party access to IPS software without IPS written consent.  Force Majeure: IPS shall not be liable 
for any warranty provisions where such product failure is as a result of Acts of Nature (including fire, flood, 
earthquake, storm, hurricane or other natural disaster), war, invasion, act of foreign enemies, hostilities (whether 
war is declared or not), civil war, rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power or confiscation, 
terrorist activities, nationalization, government sanction, blockage, embargo, labor dispute, strike, lockout or 
interruption or failure of electricity, internet services or cellular telecommunication failures caused by any of the 
events or causes described above.  IPS provides no warranty with respect to any 3rd party hardware or software, 
whether supplied in connection with this Agreement or otherwise. 
 
Preventative Maintenance:  The primary operational elements will be a working battery, card reader, coin 
validator and printer (if applicable).  All product surfaces should be kept clean with mild soap and water.  No harsh 
chemicals should be used on any plastic surfaces.  The card reader heads should be cleaned with a cleaning card 
every 1-2 months to ensure optimum performance. Cleaning cards may be purchased from IPS.  Batteries should be 
replaced when notified by the IPS Data Management System.  At 6 month increments, the coin validator shall be 
visually inspected for any damage or debris.  Compressed air may be used to keep the card reader, coin acceptor or 
printer (if applicable) clear of debris, every 6 months.  Additional preventative maintenance shall be administered by 
customer staff at such time as it is apparent to be necessary, even if it should occur on a more frequent basis than 
described herein. 
 
395 of 734

--- page 396 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 11 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
396 of 734

--- page 397 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 12 of 12 
Rev. 5/20 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within the 
retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
397 of 734

--- page 398 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  18
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4681
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Downtown Business Improvement Area – Resolution of Intent for Annual Renewal
RECOMMENDATION:
Accept the fiscal year 2020-21 Downtown San Mateo Association Annual Report; adopt a Resolution of Intent to Levy the 
Annual Assessments for the Downtown Business Improvement Area; and set a public hearing for the June 21, 2021 City 
Council meeting to consider levying the annual assessment. 
BACKGROUND:
The Downtown Business Improvement Area (DBIA) was formed in 1986 for the purpose of improving Downtown San 
Mateo and promoting businesses within the area. The Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA) has served as the DBIA 
administrator since its formation. Each year, as required by the California Street and Highways Code Section 36533, the 
DSMA provides the City Council with an annual report of activities and expenditures for the previous fiscal year and 
proposes assessments rates for the upcoming fiscal year. 
Before City Council may act on the DSMA’s request to renew the DBIA assessments, the request must be considered at two 
City Council meetings. At first the meeting on June 7, 2021, the City Council is asked to accept the DSMA’s annual report 
and adopt the Resolution of Intent to levy the proposed assessment (included as Attachment 1). At the second meeting on 
June 21, 2021, the City Council conducts a public hearing on the proposed assessment and considers adoption. In May 
2021, the DSMA submitted its annual report, incorporating a summary of 2020-21 activities and proposed program and 
budget for the next fiscal year 2021-22 (included as Attachment 2).
With COVID-19 creating severe economic injuries to local businesses for the last fiscal year, DSMA played a critical role in 
the promotion of Downtown businesses with weekly ads in the Daily Journal over the holidays as well as on their website 
and social media. DSMA monthly enewsletters and social media channels amplified the City’s messaging related to State’s 
changes in business regulations related to COVID-19. As soon as outdoor dining returned, the DSMA restarted the daily 
porter to maintain a high level of customer service and cleanliness in the Downtown. Additionally, understanding that an 
on-line presence is necessary to help bring visitors back to the Downtown, the DSMA has contracted with Commune 
Communications to redesign and modernize the DSMA website to make the website mobile friendly and easier for 
residents and visitors to use on the go. The updated DSMA website is anticipated to launch before the end of 2021. 
Over the past year, DSMA board members have also turned to each other to help small businesses in the Downtown to get 
through the Covid-19 pandemic. They provided peer coaching and advice to help solve lease issues, shared information on 
government assistance programs, and worked to keep their businesses open. The board meetings have seen new 
businesses attendees from North B Street merchants, Wursthall, and San Mateo Sports Nutrition and Supplements. 
Additionally, the DSMA recruited two board members this past year – Jill Waxman of Prometheus Real Estate Group and 
Steve Sirianni, former a board member from All About Parking. All of this demonstrates a strong desire for small 
398 of 734

--- page 399 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
businesses to have a forum to discuss, connect, and collaborate on programs, initiatives, and events for the advancement 
of the Downtown. 
Annual Assessment 
There have not been fee increases or an adjustment for inflation for the Downtown assessment fees since 2009. The 
flatlined revenue has made it difficult for the organization to hire, maintain personnel, grow as an organization, initiate 
new projects, and support Downtown businesses to the greatest extent possible. For the past three years, the DSMA has 
functioned as an all-volunteer team, with City staff providing administrative support. 
Due to COVID-19 impacts on the economy, the DSMA has again decided to postpone pursuing an assessment fees increase 
to help small, independent businesses make ends meet during these difficult times and reduce the cost of doing business. 
Furthermore, the economic damages created by COVID-19 will continue to affect businesses for months after the State’s 
expected reopening in middle of June as businesses slowly continue to recover. Consequently, DSMA is proposing another 
year of a 50% reduction of business improvement district fees for fiscal year 2021-22 at the annual public hearing for the 
DSMA. A letter requesting Council approval for the continued fifty-percent assessment reduction is included as 
Attachment 3. 
The DSMA’s projected revenue for the next year is approximately $102,000 in estimated DBIA assessments. Its budgeted 
expenditures are $170,000, which will require DSMA to draw from reserves for the next fiscal year. The DSMA projects a 
cash balance of $197,600 at the start of fiscal year 2021-22, which accounts for an expected $68,000 draw from reserves in 
the current year, and projects a cash balance of $130,000 at the end of fiscal year 2021-22. The projected cash balance 
reflects two consecutive years of reduced fees while maintaining services and thoughtfully budgeted future outlays. 
Next Steps 
Once the Council adopts the Resolution of Intent to Levy the Annual Assessments and sets the public hearing, a notice will 
be published in the newspaper announcing the public hearing for no less than seven days prior to the meeting. If written 
protests are received from the owners of business in the area that total 50% or more of the assessments proposed to be 
levied, no further proceedings to levy the assessments will be taken for one year. Any written protests received will be 
provided at the June 21, 2021 Council Meeting. 
At the June 21st public hearing, Lew Cohen, owner of B Street Books and the current president of the DSMA, will present 
an overview of their annual report and will be available to address any questions from the City Council and the public prior 
to Council consideration of levying the assessment for the next fiscal year. Per Streets and Highways Code Section 
36535(b), the City Council has the option of modifying the amount of the assessment during the public hearing. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The levying of the annual DBIA assessment does not have an impact on the General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. As required by the California Streets and Highways Code Section 36534, a 
notice shall be provided in the local newspaper no less than seven (7) day prior to the June 21, 2021 City Council Public 
Hearing.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution of Intent 2021
Att 2 - DSMA Annual Report for Fiscal Year 2021 
Att 3 – DSMA Request for Fee Reduction 2021-22
399 of 734

--- page 400 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7009
400 of 734

--- page 401 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2021)
ACCEPTING THE 2020-2021 DOWNTOWN BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT AREA (DBIA) ANNUAL REPORT, 
RESOLUTION OF INTENTION TO LEVY THE ANNUAL DBIA ASSESSMENT FOR 2021-2022, AND SETTING THE 
PUBLIC HEARING
WHEREAS, Streets and Highways Code Section 36533 (Parking and Business Improvement Area Law of 
1989) requires the City Council to approve an annual report specifying: (1) the improvements and activities to be 
provided for that fiscal year; (2) an estimate of the cost of providing the improvements and the activities for that 
fiscal year; and other information required by Section 36533; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 36534 of the Streets and Highways Code, after approving the annual 
report, the City Council is authorized to issue a resolution of intention to levy an assessment for the 2021-2022 
fiscal year; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has received and reviewed the report submitted by the Downtown San 
Mateo Association, in conjunction with City Staff, and hereby confirms said Association, in conjunction with City 
Staff, as the advisory board for the DBIA; and
WHEREAS, this project is exempt from California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requirements 
because it is an administrative activity that will not have a significant effect on the environment per CEQA 
Guidelines section 15378(b)(5));
NOW, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY DETERMINES and 
RESOLVES that:
1.
The City Council approves the Downtown San Mateo Association Fiscal Year 2020-21 Annual Report 
filed by the Downtown San Mateo Association with the City Clerk, and declares its intention to levy and collect 
assessments for the Downtown Business Improvement Area for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022 set forth in Exhibit A 
attached to this Resolution.
2.
The proposed improvements and activities are generally characterized as those activities set forth 
in Streets and Highways Code Section 36513, including but not limited to: street cleaning, promotion of public 
events, marketing activities which benefit businesses, decorations and administrative expenses, including salary, 
rent, and similar expenditures. The annual report on file with the City Clerk provides a full and detailed 
description of proposed expenditures and activities, provides the boundaries and zones of benefit of the DBIA, 
and designates the proposed assessments. A map of the business district boundaries is set forth in Exhibit B 
attached to this Resolution.
3.
A public hearing is hereby scheduled for Monday, June 21, 2021, at City Hall, 330 West 20th 
Avenue, San Mateo. In accordance with Streets and Highways Code section 36534, the City Clerk is directed to 
publish this, once in a newspaper of general circulation in the City not less than seven days before the public 
hearing. Oral and written protests in compliance with Sections 36524 and 36525 of the Streets and Highways 
Code may be made at the public hearing.
401 of 734

--- page 402 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2021)
Page 2 of 3
DBIA Intent to Levy Annual Renewal
Exhibit A
Proposed Annual Assessment Schedule FY 2021-2022
Proposed 21-22
Previous 20-21
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 1
Zone 2
Category
Professional
$50.00
$33.00
$50.00
$33.00
Financial
$500.00
$333.00
$500.00
$333.00
Hotels
$133.00
$33.00
$133.00
$33.00
Miscellaneous
$50.00
$33.00
$50.00
$33.00
Service
$67.00
$33.00
$67.00
$33.00
Retail(based on annual gross receipts)
0- $150,000
$83.00
$33.00
$83.00
$33.00
$150,001- $400,000
$166.00
$50.00
$166.00
$50.00
$400,001- $600,000
$333.00
$67.00
$333.00
$67.00
$600,001-
$1,000,000
$500.00
$100.00
$500.00
$100.00
$1,000,000+
$665.00
$166.00
$665.00
$166.00
402 of 734

--- page 403 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2021)
Page 3 of 3
DBIA Intent to Levy Annual Renewal
Exhibit B
DBIA Boundary Map FY 21-22
Zone 1 - Shaded parcels
Zone 2 – Parcels outlined in black
403 of 734

--- page 404 ---
Downtown San Mateo Association 
Fiscal Year 2021 Annual Report 
  
Overview 
  
Fiscal year 2021 (FY2021) continues to be the most challenging year for the Downtown San 
Mateo Association (DSMA) and the country.  The fiscal year began in the middle of the 
COVID pandemic and has had a great effect on Downtown San Mateo.  Yet, the resilience and 
ingenuity of Downtown business owners were impressive as many businesses stayed open 
through the changes in public health orders and were able to keep their operations as close to 
normal as possible.  For example, restaurants nimbly changed their operations to focus on take 
out/delivery options when County was in lockdown due to high COVID positivity rates and 
seized the first opportunity to start outdooring dining when the lockdown was over.  Retailers 
enhanced their business presence online.  And fitness service providers utilized City parks to 
hold classes outdoors.  Even with all the efforts to keep things going as close to normal as 
possible, the COVID event has taken its toll on small businesses.  We have seen a few 
businesses go from temporary closed to permanently closed.  And, while we can see the light at 
the end of the tunnel, there will be a period of time that businesses will need to recover from 
this event. 
 
Despite the COVID headwinds, the DSMA has continued to operate through the efforts of an 
all-volunteer board and administrative assistance from City Hall.  The DSMA has continued the 
tireless work of successfully promoting San Mateo’s unique and thriving Downtown during the 
pandemic.  The DSMA partnership with the City Manager’s office has produced a strategic and 
proactive relationship with the City of San Mateo. 
 
In FY2021, the DSMA accomplished the following: 
● Monitored restaurant openings and business changes in Downtown San Mateo and 
updated information on the DSMA website. 
● Disseminated COVID health order information to the public through social media.  
404 of 734

--- page 405 ---
● Promoted local businesses with weekly ads in the local newspaper to encourage public 
support for our small businesses with take out, curbside pickup, and online shopping 
experiences. 
● Continued our strong partnership with the Public Works Downtown Coordinator, 
Lance Hall, to identify Downtown issues and coordinate solutions. 
● Held regular monthly board meetings through zoom, keeping a large number of board 
members engaged throughout the pandemic. 
● Continued a close working relationship with City Council members. 
● Produced two monthly e-newsletters (one to BID members and one to the community 
at large) announcing Downtown news. 
● Reactivated the Downtown Cleaning Porter, after a pause due to the COVID event, to 
keep our Downtown clean, sanitary and welcoming for customers and visitors. 
● Recruited two new board members – Jill Waxman of Prometheus Real Estate Group 
and Steve Sirianni, former Board member from All About Parking 
● Paused the study of the existing the Downtown BID Fee Schedule to propose a 
modified, equitable fee structure for long-term sustainability for the DSMA (while the 
study is still in draft, it will be revisited after the COVID-19 event is under control.) 
● Contracted with Commune Communications for a redesign and modernization of the 
DSMA website to make the website easier for residents and visitors to use.  
● Enforced strict financial restraints on the annual budget to both provide services and 
retain as much savings as possible. 
 
As a reminder, each year since 1986, the DSMA has been designated by the City Council to 
manage the Downtown Business Improvement District. Originally activated to serve a largely 
retail-oriented district, the DSMA now manages a district with a much broader range of 
businesses. 
 
It has been both trying and difficult time, a large percent of businesses has kept their operations 
going during the COVID-19 event, and the better news is that there were new businesses joined 
Downtown.  During the last year, several new businesses opened in the Downtown: Avenida 
Restaurant, Blue Bottle Coffee, Dahlia Mexican Grill, DejaVu Juice Bar, Estate Coffee, Green 
Leaf Bistro, Rise Pizza, TaiChi ShabuShabu and others.  This demonstrates the continued 
strength of Downtown San Mateo as a location for small business investment.  
 
Finally, the DSMA would like to recognize and thank these businesses for supporting a form of 
normalcy and provide crucial services to the Downtown area.  The DSMA also recognizes the 
efforts of the City of San Mateo to help keep our Downtown businesses healthy and vibrant 
with street closures, outdoor dining, and financial assistance through the San Mateo Strong 
Fund. 
405 of 734

--- page 406 ---
Downtown San Mateo 
 
Thanks to its regionally central location and proximity to CalTrain, Downtown San Mateo is an 
employment hub and a popular place to meet for both business and leisure purposes. 
Commuters and leisure visitors come from San Francisco, Santa Clara County and the East Bay, 
as well as nearby Peninsula communities.  Downtown is known for its vast abundance and 
variety of restaurants, which comprise more than 20% of district businesses. It is also an 
important node in the Silicon Valley ecosystem, hosting the offices of start-ups and tech-based 
companies large and small. The presence of Mills Medical Center means that Downtown also 
includes many medical professionals and other healthcare uses. While there are traditional 
retailers in the district, the storefronts on most blocks are dominated by food purveyors, along 
with services such as salons, fitness studios and banks.  The blocks east of the railroad tracks 
also have a variety of automotive uses. 
  
Since Downtown office workers are a sizable portion of Downtown customers, the district has 
had less activity during the work week and into the evenings due to people working from home.  
Downtown is beginning to revive as people are getting vaccinated and are striving to return to 
normalcy and their office settings.  The return to normal will take more time and Downtown has 
not completely returned to being busy both day and night with residents and visitors enjoying 
Downtown’s offerings.   
 
Downtown visitors have commented on the cleanliness in the area.  It is important to continue 
the success of a clean Downtown to attract visitors.  The DSMA has addressed these issues by 
contracting with Universal Site Services.  Under the current contract, the DSMA contracts a 
cleaning porter to wipe trash cans and newspaper racks, sweep sidewalks and gutters, and 
ensure Downtown is clean and attractive throughout the week. 
 
The DSMA utilizes social media to promote Downtown’s unique offerings and inform both 
businesses and the public of news that affects them in a very timely fashion.  The DSMA’s 
social media efforts have proven to be an extremely effective way to attract Downtown visitors, 
particularly appreciated by restaurants in the Downtown.  Social media outreach also produces 
monthly newsletters (one oriented to the public and the other for Downtown businesses) and 
provides updates on the social media platforms of interesting current affairs. 
  
There is always more that can be done to support and promote Downtown.  Besides its own 
efforts to do so, the DSMA sees itself as an organization which helps to supplement City Hall’s 
efforts to support businesses as well.  And, due to the COVID event, the DSMA is proposing 
406 of 734

--- page 407 ---
the continuation of a further one-year reduction of assessments by 50% for FY2022 for all 
businesses. 
 
When the time is right, DSMA will continue to explore a modification of assessments.  The 
current assessment is out of date and does not reflect the current business composition.  It is 
important to note that the DSMA has not seen an assessment increase in eleven years.  The 
current business climate cannot support a modification and the DSMA recognizes that we need 
to continue our proactive support through a continued, smaller annual assessment.  The DSMA 
maintains that dedicating the assessment funds for the Downtown is necessary to deliver high-
quality customer experience, implement beautification initiatives, promote Downtown 
businesses, and provide greater equity among the varied Downtown businesses in the future.  
DSMA FOCUS AREAS 
DSMA activities for the past several years have addressed three focus areas:  
● Civic Partnership   
● Community Engagement   
● BID Member Engagement  
Civic Partnerships 
The DSMA routinely works with city staff from Public Works, Planning, Parks and 
Recreation, and the City Manager’s office on projects affecting Downtown.  While this fiscal 
year has been curtailed, here is a summary from the past year. 
Downtown Beautification and Cleanliness 
● Provide daily oversight of private contractor for cleaning porter services. 
● Contracts a private contractor to install seasonal banners on light posts. 
● Cooperates with Downtown Post Office to ensure landscaping and sidewalks are kept 
clean. 
● Work with City to monitor trash ordinance Downtown. 
Additional civic partnership activities  
● Work closely with the San Mateo Police Department on public safety downtown; the 
SMPD is an active participant in the monthly DSMA Board of Directors meetings.  
● Business outreach for city initiatives including street tree lighting, trash enclosures, and 
adopt-a-drain. 
● Outreach and attendance at neighborhood association meetings. 
407 of 734

--- page 408 ---
Community Engagement  
Public outreach builds interest among local audiences and invites them to explore Downtown 
San Mateo for a variety of experiences.  Due to the COVID event, Community Engagement has 
been minimized. 
Marketing Efforts  
Print Materials 
● Created and circulated a listing of businesses and restaurants that are operating during the 
COVID event in local newspaper, the San Mateo Daily Journal over a span of six weeks.  
● Continuously updated restaurant and retail store information in successive print ads to 
keep the public updated on store hours and availability. 
Social Media 
● Enables DSMA to share news about our businesses and extend the marketing reach of 
individual businesses.  Our combined Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram audiences now 
exceed 13,000 followers. 
● Downtown San Mateo Monthly Update email blast goes to about 1,400 community 
subscribers and business owners.  
● Improved Media Content will include features of local restaurants and businesses, 
history, testimonials from visitors, business owners, familiar local stakeholders, events, 
City announcements, and media/news items.  
● Coordinated with the City of San Mateo on social media blasts. 
Website Creation 
• Working with a 3rd party consultant, Commune Communications 
(www.communecommunication.com), to create a high impact website that will update 
current website. 
• New website will provide greater information, mapping capabilities, and dedicated pages 
to specific information for the public and Downtown businesses to access. 
• Creating a data-rich, accessible, and easily maintained website that will service as another 
strong avenue for Downtown San Mateo outreach.  
 
BID Member Engagement Milestones FY2021 
  
408 of 734

--- page 409 ---
While BID membership is automatic based on a district address, awareness and participation is 
always trying to be improved. The DSMA strives to engage BID members and add value to the 
varied businesses located Downtown.  Examples of engagement by the DSMA include:  
  
● Personal outreach visits by DSMA board members to new Downtown businesses. 
● Coordination of regular outdoor cleaning services to promote a Downtown in which 
people enjoy spending time. 
● Regular features of new Downtown businesses via social media. 
● Held regular DSMA Board meetings, inviting businesses and the City to present topical 
presentations to the Board. 
● Increased consistency of board member attendance and participation. 
● Talked to businesses to clarify hours and days open during the COVID event. 
 
Additional DSMA Milestones FY2021 
 
● Strengthen economic development collaboration with local organizations as well as the 
City of San Mateo. 
● Added two Board Members: Jill Waxman of Prometheus Real Estate Group and Steve 
Sirianni, former Board member rejoining from All About Parking.  See detail in the 
DSMA Board of Directors Appendix. 
DSMA Goals for FY2022 
  
With the continued economic damage from COVID-19, the new fiscal year will be filled with 
unpredictable challenges.  DSMA’s role as an advocate, facilitator, and organizer of Downtown 
businesses will be mission critical in the post COVID economy. 
 
DSMA will continue help the City provide a high-level of customer service with enhanced 
cleaning services; attract visitors to shop and eat in Downtown businesses with promotional 
efforts; and convene Downtown business owners and property owners to support each other 
through the crises while helping the City understand the needs of the Downtown businesses.   
 
Most of all, DSMA will help Downtown businesses through this difficult time by being a 
resource to businesses, a partner with the City of San Mateo, and an organization dedicated to 
keep the Downtown an attractive place for visitors. 
 
409 of 734

--- page 410 ---
● Continue to support our Downtown through the COVID-19 event and its fallout through 
marketing, outreach, and public safety information. 
● Strengthen economic development collaborations with local organizations. 
● Develop a communications plan to further the DSMA brand. 
○ Advertise the new DSMA website to further market to and engage the public to 
visit Downtown businesses. 
○ Targeted messaging campaigns throughout the year which will feature various 
Downtown attributes. 
○ Develop Social media advertising. 
● Refresh, print, and distribute the Downtown Restaurant Guide. 
● Continue print ads in the local paper, the San Mateo Daily Journal 
● Restart hotel magazine ad campaign. 
● Create relationships with developers and tech companies coming into the area. 
● Serve as co-sponsor and administrative support for the MLK Day event at the CalTrain 
station 
● Explore possibilities if sponsoring events Downtown (ex. Music in the Park, Music on B 
Street, a City event, College of San Mateo Centennial, etc.) 
● Regular representation at Council, task force, and Commission meetings. 
● Update to council to inform and report on campaigns and progress. 
● Expand board membership. 
● Improved board member participation. 
● Set up Board Committees to facilitate more participation. 
● Continue to partner with City staff to continue the support of Downtown. 
● Review possible events to sponsor (example, Music in the Park series, City events, 
College of San Mateo Centennial event, etc.). 
● Explore the possibility of college interns to help with DSMA operations and events. 
● Revisit the Downtown BID Fee Schedule and propose a modified, equitable fee structure 
later in the fiscal year, dependent upon the COVID event.  First steps would be to restart 
the conversation with Downtown businesses. 
● Examine the cost benefit analysis of an Executive Director for the DSMA. 
● Research the impact of a public restroom Downtown. 
 
In summary, the DSMA seeks the continued support of the City Council.  Even in the absence of 
an Executive Director, the organization still works to attract visitors, promote local businesses, 
and maintain a clean Downtown.  The DSMA is proposing a reduction for member BID fees for 
410 of 734

--- page 411 ---
members by 50% for another fiscal year.  This will be reevaluated next year and is specific to the 
impact of the COVID event.   
 
Budget FY2022 Overview 
 
The DSMA needs to support its base and one of the best ways to do that is to lower the BID 
fees again for all Downtown businesses by 50% for the whole fiscal year (July 1, 2021 
through June 30, 2022).  There are still essential services that need to be provided to further 
support our members, such as promotion and cleaning services.  These issues have led the 
DSMA to propose another deficit budget for FY2022. 
 
The DSMA FY2022 Budget has a planned overrun of $67,800.00.  This deficit is a reflection 
of the commitment of the DSMA to provide support and services to the Downtown area.  
Planned expenses for FY2022 are thoughtfully planned to continue services and encourage 
patrons for the Downtown businesses.  The following are a summary of the major budget 
highlights (detailed the Budget Comparative Overview Appendix): 
• Revenue projections are stable in the FY2022 (compared to FY2021).  The revenue 
will remain close to flat because we are expecting continued fluctuations that cannot 
be estimated due to the instability of the COVID event.  The DSMA plans on 
maintaining the current BID fees decrease by 50% for all business for one additional 
year. 
• Support of Program Services to benefit the Downtown area 
o Downtown cleaning service seven days a week to keep the area litter free so 
that visitors will enjoy their experiences and want to return 
o Marketing services to provide outreach. 
o A contingency fund for unplanned expenses at these uncertain times 
 
The DSMA has the savings from operating on an all-volunteer administration for over the last 
three and a half years to sustain this budget overage, while continuing to offer a high level of 
services.  While the volunteer administration is not sustainable as a model, the current savings 
can be used to support the DSMA services in the FY2022 budget year.  The DSMA projects a 
cash balance of $197.6K at the start of FY2021 and projects a cash balance of approximately 
$129.8K at the end of this budgeted fiscal year, reflecting a reduction in dues generated and 
careful budget outlays. 
 
411 of 734

--- page 412 ---
Appendix: Budget Comparative Overview 
 
412 of 734

--- page 413 ---
Appendix: DSMA Board of Directors 
 
 
Robert Anderson – Downtown Resident  
Steve Carey – LifeMoves  
Lew Cohen, President – B Street Books   
Todd Han – Dynadot     
Martin Kent – Draper University, Secretary 
Colleen Rafferty – Christensen & Rafferty Fine Jewelry, Vice President  
Steve Sirianni – All About Parking 
Joe Sully – Downtown Building Owner 
Susan Uzunoglu – Susan’s European Beauty Therapy 
Janet Wagner – Mills Health Center 
Jill Waxman – Prometheus Real Estate Group 
Seamus Whitley, Treasurer – Nutanix  
 
  
413 of 734

--- page 414 ---
May 12, 2021 
 
Dear Mayor Rodriguez and Honorable City Council Members: 
Since the Downtown business improvement district (BID) was formed in 1986, the San Mateo 
City Council has appointed the Downtown San Mateo Association (DSMA) as the manager each 
year. The City Council reviews the work of the DSMA and authorizes the collection of 
assessments from businesses within the district. The DSMA uses the collected fees to promote, 
clean, enhance, organize, and advocate on behalf of the Downtown business community.  
As you are all aware, the economic damage of COVID-19 has been extremely difficult for small, 
independent business owners. While the Downtown has managed to get by with significant 
support from the City, State, and Federal programs, it is still a very difficult time for small 
businesses. While we are optimistic about the vaccine roll out, low COVID positivity rate, and 
the Governor’s news for a return to normal business operations in middle of June, the economic 
damages already created by COVID19 will continue to affect businesses for months to come. 
Consequently, DSMA is again proposing a 50% reduction of business improvement district fees 
for FY 2022 at the annual public hearing for the DSMA. 
For the last eleven years, the DSMA has not received any assessment increases and revenues 
have flatlined. The limited revenue has made it difficult for the organization to grow and operate 
independently. With the reduced fees, DSMA will continue to spend down existing reserves in 
order to continue to provide services such as Downtown cleanliness, holiday banners, and 
increased marketing campaign for Downtown businesses online, in print, and on social media. 
While the DSMA still plans to pursue a modification of the assessment in order to promote 
equity between Downtown users, it is currently postponed for another year.  
We hope you will continue to support the DSMA and approve of our request for a second, one-
year assessment reduction. 
Sincerely,  
 
Lew Cohen 
DSMA, President 
 
Seamus Whitley  
DSMA, Treasurer  
 
Cc: Drew Corbett, City Manager 
      Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager  
414 of 734

--- page 415 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  19
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4637
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
June 7, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Below Market Rental Rates, Sales Prices and Unit Community Priorities – 2021 Revisions
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to establish 2021 maximum rental rates and sales prices for affordable housing as required by the City 
of San Mateo's Below Market Rate (BMR) housing program; and establish Community Priority for units containing 3 or 
more bedrooms, which may allow a developer to provide fewer BMR units in exchange for units with more bedrooms as 
long as all other BMR program provisions are followed. 
BACKGROUND:
In November 1992, the City Council established the BMR housing program that requires new housing developments of 11 
or more units include a certain percentage of the units as "affordable". The affordable housing targets have been revised 
from time to time. As of February 2020, a rental project must include 15% of the units that are affordable to Lower Income 
households, whose incomes do not exceed 80% of the median income ($102,450-$146,350, depending upon family size). 
For owner occupied housing, 15% of the units must be affordable to Moderate Income households, whose incomes do not 
exceed 120% of the area median income ($125,560-$179,500, depending upon family size). These are the minimum 
requirements and developers may elect to utilize State Density Bonus provisions to provide deeper affordability in 
exchange for development concessions.
The City receives updated median income figures from the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and the 
State Housing and Community Development offices each spring. All BMR units are subject to maximum rental rates and 
sales prices that are revised by the City Council on an annual basis to reflect changes in the area median income (AMI), as 
well as average interest rates for mortgages. This year the median income increased 5%. However, in 2019 the City Council 
adopted a 4% cap on BMR rental increases to address the significant median income increases over the past few years. 
Rental Rates 
Maximum rental rates are determined by calculating 30% of 50% of the Area Median figure adjusted by family size for Very 
Low Income and 30% of 60% of the Area Median figure for Low Income adjusted by family size. The maximum rent figures 
include the cost of gas and electric utilities, garbage and water, but exclude telephone. Calculated rents cannot exceed Fair 
Market Rents (FMR) as published by the San Mateo County Housing Authority.
Utilizing these formulas, the maximum rental rates after applying the 4% cap over last year for 2021 are: 
415 of 734

--- page 416 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Very Low Income
Low Income
Studio
$1,170 
$1,395 
1-Bedroom
$1,327 
$1,597 
2-Bedroom
$1,496 
$1,800 
3-Bedroom
$1,665 
$2,002 
4-Bedroom
$1,800 
$2,160 
Very Low and Low Income maximum rents increased approximately $45-$85 but are still well below the current market. 
Sales Prices
Maximum sales prices for condominiums and townhouses are established by first determining an affordable monthly 
housing payment, which is defined as 30% of 100% of AMI adjusted by family size for Moderate Income and 30% of 70% of 
AMI for Low Income. An allowance for property taxes, insurance, and homeowners’ association dues is factored into the 
monthly payment. The sales price is then calculated assuming a 5% down payment and a 4.5% interest rate (15-year 
average as published by Freddie Mac). Sales prices for single-family detached houses are calculated using the above 
mentioned methodology except that the formula for the monthly payment for detached single-family houses is 35% times 
110% of the monthly median income.
Utilizing these formulas, the maximum sales prices for 2021 are:
Low Income 
Condo/Townhome
Moderate Income 
Condo/Townhome
Single Family 
Detached
Studio
$255,000 
$394,000 
n/a
1-Bedroom
$286,000 
$444,000 
$594,000 
2-Bedroom
$322,000 
$500,000 
$668,000 
3-Bedroom
$360,000 
$558,000 
$744,000 
4-Bedroom
$405,000 
$618,000 
$820,000 
The sales prices increased this year by approximately 5%. The Council reserves the right to change the prices at any time in 
the event of significant changes in the market, interest rates or other conditions. 
Community Priority
BMR program revisions effective January 1, 2010 included flexibility in the bedroom count of the BMR units based on 
Council adoption of community priorities. An applicant may propose a different bedroom mix in the BMR units other than 
a straight pro rata of the market rate units as long as the total bedroom count is the same or more, and that the total 
number of BMR units equal at least 10% of the project. 
For 2021, staff recommends that Council continue to adopt a Community Priority for large units consisting of 3 or more 
bedrooms, based on the shortage of those units currently in the BMR inventory compared to the families on the waiting 
lists. For example, a 40-unit complex consisting of all 2-bedroom units could provide the City four 3-bedroom units (10%) 
instead of the standard requirement of six 2-bedroom (15%) units. The City Council has the ability to change this priority 
each year to respond to different needs in the future.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact to City for this action. Prices affect developer's costs by restricting income from rent and 
sales proceeds.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15061(b)(3), this action is not a project subject to CEQA in that it can be seen 
with certainty that it will not have a significant effect on the environment.
416 of 734

--- page 417 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7223
417 of 734

--- page 418 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO.        (2021)
ESTABLISHING THE 2021 MAXIMUM RENTAL RATES AND SALES PRICES FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING AS 
REQUIRED BY THE BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING PROGRAM, AND ESTABLISHING COMMUNITY PRIORITY 
FOR LARGER UNITS
WHEREAS, the Below Market Rate Housing Program (BMR Program) was established in 1992, and is 
reviewed by the Council annually to establish maximum rental rates and sales prices for affordable housing, and
WHEREAS, a revision to the BMR Program effective in January 2010, included flexibility in how a 
developer can satisfy the City’s BMR requirement, based on total bedroom count and adopted community 
priorities for the number of bedrooms in each unit; and 
WHEREAS, the City annually revises the rental rates and sales prices for the BMR Program based on 
medium income data provided by the U. S. Department of Housing & Urban Development and the State Housing 
& Community Development offices; and
 
WHEREAS, as set forth in the accompanying Administrative Report, staff has reviewed the rental rates 
and sales prices for the BMR Program and recommends that the Council adopt the rates set forth in Exhibit A 
attached to this Resolution; and
WHEREAS, staff recommends that the Council establish Community Priority for units consisting of three 
or more bedrooms, based on the shortage of those units currently in the BMR inventory compared to the 
families on the waiting lists, which will allow a developer to provide fewer BMR units in exchange for unit with 
three or more bedrooms as long as all other BMR program provisions are followed;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1. 
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15061(b)(3) 
this action is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that it will not have a significant 
effect on the environment.
2.
The 2021 maximum rental rates, including utilities and garbage, and sales prices for below 
market rate units are established at the rates set forth in Exhibit A, attached to this Resolution.
3.
The establishment of a Community Priority need for units containing three bedrooms or more is 
established. A developer may propose a different bedroom mix in the BMR units as long as the developer 
provides BMR units with three or more bedrooms such that the total bedroom count is equal to or higher than 
what would otherwise be required pursuant to the BMR Guidelines, the total number of BMR units is 10% or 
more for the project, and all other BMR Program provisions are followed. See Exhibit B for the methodology to 
calculate the equivalency.
418 of 734

--- page 419 ---
EXHIBIT  A
 2021 MAXIMUM RENTAL RATES
(Including Utility Allowance)
Very Low Income
Low Income
Studio
$1,170 
$1,395 
1-Bedroom
$1,327 
$1,597 
2-Bedroom
$1,496 
$1,800 
3-Bedroom
$1,665 
$2,002 
4-Bedroom
$1,800 
$2,160 
2021 MAXIMUM SALES PRICES
Low Income 
Condo/Townhome
Moderate Income 
Condo/Townhome
Single Family Detached
Studio
$255,000 
$394,000 
n/a
1-Bedroom
$286,000 
$444,000 
$594,000 
2-Bedroom
$322,000 
$500,000 
$668,000 
3-Bedroom
$360,000 
$558,000 
$744,000 
4-Bedroom
$405,000 
$618,000 
$820,000 
419 of 734

--- page 420 ---
EXHIBIT B
BELOW MARKET RATE ALTERNATIVE
FOR VARIATION OF THE BEDROOM COUNT IN BMR UNITS
Based on City Council adoption of a Community Priority, an applicant may propose a different 
bedroom mix in the BMR units as long as the developer provides BMR units with three or more 
bedrooms such that the total bedroom count is equal to or higher than what would otherwise be 
required pursuant to the BMR Guidelines, the total number of BMR units is 10% of or more for the 
project, and all other BMR Program provisions are followed. 
When the Community Priority is for larger units with 3 or more bedrooms the following methodology is 
used to calculate the required number of BMR units:

Calculate the pro rata number of Market Rate units by bedroom type by multiplying .15 times 
the number of units for each bedroom size to establish the baseline.

Calculate the total number of bedrooms in the baseline BMR units. Use .75/ unit for studio 
units.

Developer may propose a different mix of bedrooms if it increases the number of units with 3 
or more bedrooms, provides an equivalent bedroom count the same or greater than the 
baseline, and provides a total BMR unit count of at least 10% of the project size.
420 of 734

--- page 421 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  20
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4738
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Park and Recreation Commission and Community Relations Commission – Appointment Subcommittee Recommendations
RECOMMENDATION:
At the recommendation of the Appointment Subcommittees: Appoint Sarah Fields to the Park and Recreation Commission 
for a full four-year term ending June 10, 2025 and appoint Meghan Crowell to the Community Relations Commission for a 
full four-year term ending June 10, 2025. 
BACKGROUND:
The recruitment for Boards and Commissions annual vacancies was opened on May 10, 2021 and closed on May 28, 2021. 
Four applications were received for the Park and Recreation Commission vacancy for one seat and six applications were 
received for the Community Relations Commission vacancy for one seat. The Park and Recreation Commissions 
Appointment Subcommittee comprised of Mayor Rodriguez and Council Member Lee, with Park and Recreation Director 
Sheila Canzian advising; and the Community Relations Appointment Subcommittee comprised of Mayor Rodriguez and 
Deputy Mayor Bonilla with Housing Program Manager Sandy Council advising – interviewed all ten applicants on 
Wednesday, June 2, 2021. 
Interviewed - Park and Recreation:

Sarah Fields

Haydet Giulianetti

Scott Long
Interviewed – Community Relations

Sheri Boles

Jame’e Brazie’r

Meghan Crowell

Sarah Fields

Forrest Tappan
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from this administrative function. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
421 of 734

--- page 422 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This appointment is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
There are no attachments.
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
422 of 734

--- page 423 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  21
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-4715
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Proposed 2021-22 Budget and 2021-26 Capital Improvement Program
RECOMMENDATION:
Review the proposed 2021-22 budget and the 2021-26 Capital Improvement Program, and receive public comment prior 
to the scheduled adoption at the June 21, 2021 City Council meeting.
BACKGROUND:
Prior to Council’s adoption of the 2021-22 budget on June 21, 2021, it holds two public hearings to receive public comment 
on the proposed budget and capital improvement program (CIP). Council was presented with a preview of the General 
Fund proposed 2021-22 budget on April 19, 2021, which included half of the City's share of the American Rescue Plan Act, 
ongoing implementation of the City's Fiscal Sustainability Plan, and projections for major tax revenues. The proposed 
2021-22 budget was posted to the City’s website on June 1, 2021. 
Overall, the proposed Citywide budget for 2020-21 is $253.6 million. This includes an operating budget of $201.0 million 
and a capital budget of $52.6 million. The General Fund, which is the City's primary operating fund, as it accounts for major 
tax revenues and funds for the City's core services, projects total revenues of $144.5 million and total expenditures of 
$146.8 million, and includes transfers out and all General Fund sub-funds – Measure S, Recreation Services, Golf, and the 
new sub-fund for Downtown Parking and Security. Budget highlights are included in the City Manager’s Letter of 
Transmittal, which is in the first section of the budget document. Additional detail on all of the City’s revenues and 
expenditures is included throughout the budget document. 
As a primary element of the Fiscal Sustainability Plan, the City identified the following 7.0 full time equivalent (FTE) of 
approximately $1.0 million in vacant positions that were directly or indirectly funded by the General Fund to permanently 
eliminate beginning in 2021-22. Of the $1.0 million in reductions, $0.9 million was for employee salaries and benefits, and 
the remaining $0.1 million was for the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) Unfunded Accrued 
Liability (UAL). While permanent elimination of these positions does not reduce the UAL that is payable for 2021-22, the 
reduction of reportable compensation will reduce the City’s exposure to future investment volatility and changes in 
actuarial assumptions, as the City will be contributing less in normal costs, and therefore the pension plan will have less in 
assets to invest. Any deviations from the 7.0% discount rate generates a new amortization base, which is effectively a loan 
that the City has to repay CalPERS at a rate of 7.0% over a 20 year amortization period. In addition, the elimination of the 
School Resource Officer (SRO) has a net zero effect, as the SRO was previously funded by revenue from the school districts.
423 of 734

--- page 424 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Position Number
Position Name
Department
FTE
6068-004
Senior Facility Maintenance Worker
Public Works
1.00
4545-006
Community Services Officer I/II
Police
1.00
5205-001
Traffic Enforcement Coordinator
Police
1.00
5302-001
Purchasing Coordinator
Finance
1.00
8170-011
Librarian II
Library
1.00
5340-019
Administrative Assistant
Human Resources/City Manager/City Attorney
1.00
4110-032
Police Officer (School Resource Officer)
Police
1.00
Total FTE to be permanently eliminated
7.00
In addition, the Parks and Recreation (P&R) Department has defunded the following positions for 2021-22, which removes 
the budget appropriations for the positions, but the FTE for these positions are included in the headcount for P&R, which 
will evaluate the service levels, the associated demand, and determine if these positions are needed in 2022-23, pending 
the availability of financial resources in the General Fund to restore funding. 
Position Number
Position Name
Department
5324-006
Community Services Supervisor
Parks & Recreation
5334-006
Community Services Coordinator
Parks & Recreation
5342-003
Senior Program Assistant
Parks & Recreation
In addition to the adoption of the 2021-22 budget and capital improvement program, there will be one other action 
requested of Council as part of the overall budget adoption process on June 21st. This action is to establish the City’s 
appropriations limit for 2021-22. The appropriations limit, which was originally established in 1979 by Proposition 4, places 
a maximum limit of the appropriation of tax proceeds that can be made by the state, school districts, and local 
governments in California. California Government Code requires that the City annually adopt an appropriations limit for 
the upcoming fiscal year. The appropriations limit for the City of San Mateo for 2021-22 is $237,633,768, while the 
proceeds of taxes subject to the appropriations limit is $106,611,897. Therefore, the City is well below its appropriations 
limit for fiscal year 2021-22. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no direct budgetary impact resulting from this report. The proposed 2021-22 budget contains a consolidated 
summary of proposed appropriations for 2021-22 in the Budget Overview section of the document, with comprehensive 
financial information at the fund level (Fund Information section) and the department level (Departments section) 
included as well.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
424 of 734

--- page 425 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  22
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4602-02
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 7, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Introduction – “Short-Term Rentals” Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
THIS ITEM WAS CONTINUED FROM COUNCIL MEETING DATE 5/17/21.
Introduce an Ordinance to amend Municipal Code Chapter 5.66 “Short Term Rentals” (STR) to clarify that only properties 
where the host is not present have an annual limit on the number of days they can be rented, that STR properties do not 
need to be the owner’s primary residence, and that accessory dwelling units cannot be used for short-term rentals. 
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo short-term rental (STR) ordinance (SMMC Chapter 5.66) was adopted on February 1, 2021 to 
regulate STRs and mitigate their impacts on surrounding properties.  While preparing the materials for implementation of 
the new ordinance, staff identified some clarifications needed in the ordinance in order to regulate STRs in the manner 
intended by City Council at the time of adoption. 
The proposed changes to the adopted ordinance include the following: 

Clarify that Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) are excluded from operating as STRs; 

Replace the term “primary residence” with “dwelling units”; 

Clarify annual limits only pertain to STR properties when a host is not on site. 
The added language that excludes ADUs from operating as STRs, is needed to maintain consistency with the City’s 
previously adopted ADU regulations. Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 states that ADUs shall not be rented for less than 30 
days and requires that a deed restriction be recorded with this restriction in place. This ADU regulation has been in place 
since 2016. 
The replacement of the term “primary residence” with “dwelling units,” better reflects the City Council’s intention to not 
limit STR operators to only primary residents. Instead, any legal dwelling unit, with the exception of ADUs, can operate as a 
short-term rental.  
The final amendment to the ordinance reflects the City Council’s intention to limit the number of rentals days per year for 
properties where a host is not present. In the original draft of the ordinance, it accidently restricted all STRs to no more 
than 120 days of rentals per year.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The proposed amendments to the short-term rental ordinance will not have any budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
425 of 734

--- page 426 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065 and California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, 
section 15061(b)(3) , adoption of the ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA as it will not result in a direct or 
reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the environment, because the short-term rental use will have no 
environmental impacts other than impacts associated with residential uses.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 – Proposed Ordinance with track changes
Att 3 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Denise Garcia, Management Analyst I
dgarcia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7003
426 of 734

--- page 427 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Mateo Amending Section 5.66, “Short Term Rentals,” of 
Title 5, “Business Licenses and Regulations, “ of the San Mateo Municipal Code
WHEREAS, The City adopted an ordinance on February 1, 2021, regulating short-term rentals of 
residential properties; and
WHEREAS, the ordinance references “primary residences” and the City wishes to allow and regulate 
short term rentals in all dwelling units except for accessory dwelling units; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to replace the reference to “primary residence” with references to “dwelling 
units” and to define the term “dwelling units” to exclude accessory dwelling units; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to clarify that, the annual 120-day limitation on short-term rentals does not 
apply when the host is present for the duration of the stay; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to clarify that the annual limit runs from the date of the short-term rental 
registration; and
WHEREAS, the City Council originally scheduled this item for a public meeting on May 27, 2021; and
WHEREAS, the item was continued to the meeting of June 7, 2021;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 5.66.020 is amended to add the following definition:
“Dwelling Unit” means any legal dwelling unit but does not include accessory dwelling units.
Section 2. Section 5.66.040,  “Operating Standards,” is amended to read as follows:
The following operating standards shall apply to Short-Term Rentals:
(a) Permitted in Dwelling Units. Any Dwelling Unit, with the exception of Accessory Dwelling Units as 
defined in Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, may be registered as a Short-Term Rental.
(b) Annual Limit. When a Host is present on site, a Dwelling Unit may be occupied as a Short-Term 
Rental for an unlimited number of days.  When a Host is not present on site, a Dwelling Unit may be occupied as 
a Short-Term Rental for no more than 120 days per year, beginning on the date that the Short-Term Rental was 
registered. 
(c) Local Contact Person. Hosts shall identify to all guests and all occupants of adjacent properties a local 
contact person to be available 24 hours per day, seven days per week during the term of any stay. The 
designated local contact person shall:
427 of 734

--- page 428 ---
(1) Respond within 60 minutes to complaints regarding the condition or operation of the 
dwelling unit or the conduct of guests; and
(2) Take remedial action to resolve such complaints.
(d) Parking. Properties with three or fewer bedrooms must provide at least one off-street parking space. 
Properties with four or more bedrooms must provide at least two off-street parking spaces.
(e) Special Event. Weddings, parties, corporate events, commercial functions, and any other similar 
events which have the potential to cause traffic, parking, noise, or other problems in the neighborhood are 
prohibited from occurring at the Short-Term Rental property, as a component of Short-Term Rental activities.
(f) Occupancy is limited to two people per bedroom or ten people per property, whichever is less.
(g) Hosts must notify guests of all City noise, trash, and parking ordinances.
Section 3. Section 5.66.050, “Registration and Annual Renewal,” is amended to read as follows:
(a) Application. Prior to advertising or making available the Dwelling Unit for Short-term Rental, Hosts 
shall register a Dwelling Unit as a Short-Term Rental with the City. This registration shall be submitted on a form 
prepared by the City and shall include the name and contact information of the Host, the address of the 
Dwelling Unit being used for Short-Term Rental, the contact information for the local contact person, an 
acknowledgement of compliance with the requirements of the City’s Zoning Ordinance, Municipal Codes, 
including the requirement to obtain a business license, applicable health and safety standards, and other 
information as requested.
(b) Fee. The registration form shall be accompanied by a filing fee in an amount established by 
resolution of the City Council and updated from time to time.
(c) Application Completeness. The submitted information shall be used to determine whether to register 
the Short-Term Rental. The Host will be notified if an application is incomplete. If the Host fails to timely submit 
the required information or fees necessary to complete the application, the application shall expire and be 
deemed withdrawn.
(d) Decision. The Community Development Director shall review Short-term Rental registration 
applications. After an application is deemed complete, registration shall be approved where:
(1) The Host demonstrates the ability to meet the requirements of this Chapter,
(2) The subject Dwelling Unit is not currently the subject of an unresolved code enforcement 
case involving health and safety issues in the past twelve months, and
(3) A Short-term Rental registration for the Dwelling Unit has not been denied or revoked in the 
prior twelve-month period. 
428 of 734

--- page 429 ---
Section 4. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065 and 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3) , adoption of the ordinance is not a 
project subject to CEQA as it will not result in a direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the 
environment, because the short-term rental use will have no environmental impacts other than impacts 
associated with residential uses.
Section 4.  Severability. In the event any section, clause, or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause, or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5.  Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6.  Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
429 of 734

--- page 430 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance of the City Council of the City of San Mateo Amending Section 5.66, “Short Term Rentals,” of 
Title 5, “Business Licenses and Regulations, “of the San Mateo Municipal Code
WHEREAS, The City adopted an ordinance on February 1, 2021, regulating short-term rentals of 
residential properties; and
WHEREAS, the ordinance references “primary residences” and the City wishes to allow and regulate 
short term rentals in all dwelling units except for accessory dwelling units; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to replace the reference to “primary residence” with references to “dwelling 
units” and to define the term “dwelling units” to exclude accessory dwelling units; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to clarify that, the annual 120-day limitation on short-term rentals does not 
apply when the host is present for the duration of the stay; 
WHEREAS, the City wishes to clarify that the annual limit runs from the date of the short-term rental 
registration; and
WHEREAS, the City Council originally scheduled this item for a public meeting on May 27, 2021; and
WHEREAS, the item was continued to the meeting of June 7, 2021;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.  Section 5.66.020 is amended to add the following definition:
“Dwelling Unit” means any legal dwelling unit but does not include accessory dwelling units.
Section 2.  Section 5.66.040,  “Operating Standards,” is amended to read as follows:
The following operating standards shall apply to Short-Term Rentals:
(a) Permitted inLegal Dwelling Units. Any Dwelling Unit, with the exception of Accessory Dwelling Units 
as defined in Chapter 27.19 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, may be registered as a Short-Term Rentals may 
only occur within legal dwelling units.
(b) Annual Limit. When a Host is present on site, a Dwelling Unit may be occupied as a Short-Term 
Rental for an unlimited number of days.  When a Host is not present on site, aA primary residenceDwelling Unit 
may be occupied as a Short-Term Rental for no more than 120 days per calendar year, beginning on the date 
that the Short-Term Rental was registered. 
430 of 734

--- page 431 ---
(c) Local Contact Person. Hosts shall identify to all guests and all occupants of adjacent properties a local 
contact person to be available 24 hours per day, seven days per week during the term of any stay. The 
designated local contact person shall:
(1) Respond within 60 minutes to complaints regarding the condition or operation of the 
dwelling unit or the conduct of guests; and
(2) Take remedial action to resolve such complaints.
(d) Parking. Properties with three or fewer bedrooms must provide at least one off-street parking space. 
Properties with four or more bedrooms must provide at least two off-street parking spaces.
(e) Special Event. Weddings, parties, corporate events, commercial functions, and any other similar 
events which have the potential to cause traffic, parking, noise, or other problems in the neighborhood are 
prohibited from occurring at the Short-Term Rental property, as a component of Short-Term Rental activities.
(f) Occupancy is limited to two people per bedroom or ten people per property, whichever is less.
(g) Hosts must notify guests of all City noise, trash, and parking ordinances.
Section 3.  Section 5.66.050, “ Registration and Annual Renewal,” is amended to read as follows:
(a) Application. Prior to advertising or making available the primary residenceDwelling Unit for Short-
term Rental, Hosts shall register their primary residencea Dwelling Unit as a Short-Term Rental with the City. 
This registration shall be submitted on a form prepared by the City and shall include the name and contact 
information of the Host, the address of the primary residenceDwelling Unit being used for Short-Term Rental, 
the contact information for the local contact person, an acknowledgement of compliance with the requirements 
of the City’s Zoning Ordinance, Municipal Codes, including the requirement to obtain a business license, 
applicable health and safety standards, and other information as requested.
(b) Fee. The registration form shall be accompanied by a filing fee in an amount established by 
resolution of the City Council and updated from time to time.
(c) Application Completeness. The submitted information shall be used to determine whether to register 
the Short-Term Rental. The Host will be notified if an application is incomplete. If the Host fails to timely submit 
the required information or fees necessary to complete the application, the application shall expire and be 
deemed withdrawn.
(d) Decision. The Community Development Director shall review Short-term Rental registration 
applications. After an application is deemed complete, registration shall be approved where:
(1) The host Host demonstrates the ability to meet the requirements of this Chapter,
(2) The subject primary residenceDwelling Unit is not currently the subject of an unresolved 
code enforcement case involving health and safety issues in the past twelve months, and
431 of 734

--- page 432 ---
(3) A Short-term Rental registration for the primary residenceDwelling Unit has not been denied 
or revoked in the prior twelve-month period. 
Section 3.  Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21065 and 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3) , adoption of the ordinance is not a 
project subject to CEQA as it will not result in a direct or reasonably foreseeable indirect physical change in the 
environment, because the short-term rental use will have no environmental impacts other than impacts 
associated with residential uses.
Section 4.  Severability. In the event any section, clause, or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause, or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5.  Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6.  Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
432 of 734

--- page 433 ---
From: Thomas Morgan II < >  
Sent: Thursday, May 13, 2021 2:30 PM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Agenda Item Number 15 
 
Patrice 
 
I hope you are well, I was reviewing the agenda,  the wording on item number 15 Short Term Rentals 
seems confusing. It seems to read that the host needs to be present not to be subject to the annual limit, 
but then goes on to say it does not need to be their primary residence.  
 
The term "present" need to be better defined. I think of two scenarios: 
 
1. Host must live within City of San Mateo, or 
 
2. Host lives in ADU or JADU and rents out their main house. 
 
Given the current budget challenge and TOT taxes being the most impacted revenue source, San Mateo 
lacking an adequate number of hotel rooms,  and the hotel behind the Marina Market being rebuilt. I think 
Council should postpone the annual limit at least one year.  I am hearing from multiple sources there is 
high demand for travel and there is already shortages in rental cars and flights.  
 
Thanks,  
 
Thomas Morgan 
 
 
433 of 734

--- page 434 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  23
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4716
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
COVID-19 Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and regulations issued 
by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency.
BACKGROUND:
On March 4, 2020, the Governor proclaimed a state of emergency in response to the outbreak of respiratory illness due to 
a novel coronavirus now referred to as COVID-19. As a consequence of this proclamation the City Manager, acting as the 
City’s Director of Emergency Services, was authorized to make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably 
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency. 
The City Council declared a local health emergency on March 16, 2020. In addition to positioning the City for potential 
mutual aid and cost recovery opportunities, the emergency proclamation also provides the City Manager broader 
authority to be able to expeditiously address issues related to the emergency. With that said, actions taken by the City 
Manager outside of the general authority of the duties provided for in the City Charter are subject to confirmation by 
Council as soon as practicable. 
State and local emergency proclamations are still in effect, and currently the State is under the “Blueprint for a Safer 
Economy” framework for determining restrictions on businesses and activities. San Mateo County was moved to the least 
restrictive yellow tier (minimal COVID-19 transmission) on May 12th. In the yellow tier, most indoor business operations 
are open with modifications, including capacity restrictions. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving this informational report. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
434 of 734

--- page 435 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
435 of 734

--- page 436 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  24
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4409
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
 June 7, 2021
SUBJECT:
Development Impact Fee Study – Report Review
RECOMMENDATION:
Review findings of Development Impact Fee Study and provide staff direction related to the structure and amount of 
development impact fees in fiscal year 2021-22.
BACKGROUND:
In fiscal year 2019-20, the San Mateo City Council included a review of the City’s development impact fees as a priority in 
its strategic plan. As a result, in 2020, the City entered into a contract with two consultants, Matrix Consulting Group and 
Bartle Wells, to review several of the City’s development impact and in-lieu fees (Table 1). 
Table 1: Fees Included in Development Impact Fee Study
Fee
Consultant
Fee Type
Parks and Landscape Resources
(includes Park In-Lieu and Park Impact Fees)
Matrix Consulting Group
Impact / In-Lieu
Transportation Improvement Fee
Public Works/Matrix 
Consulting Group
Impact
Childcare Development Fee
Matrix Consulting Group
Impact
Waste Water Treatment Plant Phase II Expansion Fee
Bartle Wells
Impact
South Trunk Area Sewer Improvement Fee
Bartle Wells
Impact
Art in Public Places
Matrix Consulting Group
In-Lieu
Tree Replacement Fee
Matrix Consulting Group
In-Lieu
Landscape In-Lieu
Matrix Consulting Group
In-Lieu
Any fees that were not included in the study were recently revised through a separate process. These include:

Below Market Housing Fee – Community Development staff and Economic Planning Systems conducted a full 
study of the Below Market Housing fractional fee and other related requirements in 2019 and 2020. City Council 
adopted those revised fractional fees in February 2020.

Central Parking Improvement District per Space In-Lieu Fee – Public Works staff studied and reviewed this fee in 
2019 and 2020, and City Council adopted a revised fee in March 2020. It was included in the Matrix report to allow 
for comparisons across jurisdictions.
436 of 734

--- page 437 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Commercial Linkage Fee – In 2020, the City participated in a countywide analysis of the Commercial Linkage Fee. 
Where appropriate, fee amounts have been included in this report to illustrate aggregate impact fee costs.
Purpose of Study
Development impact fees are governed by Government Code Section 66000 et seq., or AB1600, which specifies the need 
for a nexus between the collection of fees and new development within a city’s service area. Recognizing that some of the 
City’s fees had not been studied for several years, the City Council directed staff to review existing development impact 
and in-lieu fees to better align them with updated costs and infrastructure improvements. 
The nexus studies (Attachments 1 and 2) outline the maximum allowable fees the City would be justified in charging based 
on projected future growth, the infrastructure costs the City will incur to accommodate that growth, and the City’s legal 
requirements under AB1600. For each fee and land use, the City can charge a fee amount up to full cost. However, City 
Council could also set specific fees at levels below full cost should it wish to incentivize certain types of development or 
ensure alignment with fee amounts in neighboring jurisdictions. In those instances, the City would likely need to explore 
other funding sources or potentially delay some infrastructure improvements driven by future development to account for 
any lost revenue.
Key Findings
The City continues to have the legal authority to charge all its current impact and in-lieu fees, but the nexus studies 
indicate that apart from the Childcare Impact Fee, the current rates across all fee types are below the full costs the City will 
incur to accommodate projected future growth. In addition, changes to legal parameters, infrastructure costs, or the nexus 
determinations themselves have led the consultants and staff to recommend some structural changes to several of the 
City’s fees. This section outlines the major findings and recommendations from the two studies.
Park In-Lieu and Impact Fees
The City currently assesses two separate park-related impact fees, the Park In-Lieu Fee and the Park Impact Fee. The Park 
In-Lieu Fee is governed by the Quimby Act and applies to residential projects that require the subdivision of land. The 
revenue generated from this fee allows the City to purchase land to maintain the City’s standard of 2 park acres per 1,000 
residents. The Park Impact Fee is levied on new residential units that do not require the subdivision of land and can be 
used for all capital-related purchases, including land, facilities, and equipment related to parks and recreation. Upon 
reviewing these two fees, Matrix and staff recommend the following:
Eliminate In-Lieu (Quimby) Fee and Incorporate the Acreage Standard into the City’s Park Impact Fee
The current Parks In-Lieu Fee can only be assessed on projects that require land subdivisions, which is a rarity in cities that 
are largely built-out. In addition, the fee itself is based on the need to purchase additional parks or open space in the City 
to maintain the standard of 2 acres of parkland per 1,000 residents. However, the cost of land alone does not capture the 
full impact of future development on the City’s park resources. The Parks Impact Fee, which is more broadly applicable, 
can also be used to fund infrastructure improvements from the City’s Capital Improvement Plan (CIP). By eliminating the 
In-Lieu Fee and incorporating the parks standard into the Impact Fee, the City can account for the broader impact future 
development will have on parks resources and eliminate the need for a standalone fee utilized only on subdivided land. 
Consider Expanding the Park Impact Fee to Mitigate the Impacts of Future Commercial Development
Currently, the Park In-Lieu and Park Impact Fees are assessed only on residential developments. However, because future 
employees would also utilize the City’s parks, the Matrix study establishes a nexus between future commercial 
development and park maintenance and improvement costs. The study indicates the maximum allowable fee the City can 
charge for a variety of commercial uses and accounts for the fact that future employees would put less strain on the City’s 
park resources than future residents.
Transportation Improvement Fee
The Transportation Improvement Fee was last updated in 2017 and allows the City to charge new developments to 
mitigate their impact on the City’s transportation network. This fee is assessed on both residential and commercial 
projects, and subsequent revenue can be used to fund a number of transportation-related improvements. The 
437 of 734

--- page 438 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Transportation Improvement Fee was included in this study to allow Public Works to include updated cost estimates and 
project listings (Appendix A in Attachment 1) for future infrastructure improvements. However, Public Works also plans to 
undertake a more comprehensive review of the Transportation Improvement Fee once the General Plan Update is 
complete to account for updated growth projections and circulation improvements identified through that process.
Based on the Matrix nexus study, the City is currently under-recovering for all Transportation Improvement Fee categories. 
In addition, while the City currently charges only industrial, retail, and office uses within the commercial category, a nexus 
exists to also charge hotels and institutions should Council decide to do so.
Childcare Impact Fee
Adopted in 2004, the Childcare Impact Fee allows the City to charge a fee to commercial projects greater than 10,000 
square feet to account for future childcare needs driven by that development. The City can utilize revenue generated from 
this fee to fund the construction and expansion of future and existing childcare facilities. Based on projected future 
childcare needs and updated construction costs, the nexus study indicates two important structural changes for Council 
consideration:
1.
The City must reduce the per square foot fee for all commercial uses but has the option to levy the fee on all 
commercial developments, regardless of size. This means that although future developments will pay less per 
square foot, developments smaller than 10,000 sq. ft. would also be subject to the fee.
2.
There is a nexus between future residential growth and the need for childcare. The study indicates the maximum 
allowable fee for single family and multi-family units to account for future childcare costs, and Council may decide 
to charge future residential projects any amount up to and including that amount.  
Sewer Development Fees
The City currently has three sets of sewer fees that are applied to new developments to mitigate their impacts on the 
sewer system infrastructure. These include the sewer connection fees, the Wastewater Treatment Plan Phase II Expansion 
Fee and the South Trunk Area Sewer Improvement fees, which are only levied on new developments located in the area 
served by the City’s South Trunk sewer line. Staff last updated the sewer fees in 2014, with an update to the South Trunk 
Area Sewer Improvement fee.
City staff hired Bartle Wells to review the sewer development fees because of its specific experience developing water and 
wastewater fees. Following its review, Bartle Wells recommended that staff adopt a single set of wastewater capacity 
charges that would be applied uniformly throughout the City. Section 66013 of the Government Code specifically governs 
water and wastewater capacity charges and defines a “capacity charge” to mean “a charge for public facilities in existence 
at the time a charge is imposed or charges for new public facilities to be acquired or constructed in the future that are of 
proportional benefit to the person or property being charged.” The proposed new capacity charges would replace all three 
existing development fees.
Bartle Wells developed the proposed capacity charges using an average cost approach in which new developments pay for 
their proportionate share of the average cost of facilities, both existing and planned, needed to meet the demands of the 
City’s service area. As part of this approach, the report recommended that redevelopment projects continue to receive a 
credit for their existing sewer connections and only pay for the incremental demand generated by new development. 
About 90% of the revenues collected from the proposed wastewater capacity charges can be used to fund capital 
improvements for wastewater repair, rehabilitation, and replacement. The remaining revenues are eligible to fund capital 
improvements that represent upgrades and expansions to the City’s sewer system infrastructure.
Peer Jurisdiction Comparison
In order to understand how the City’s current and maximum allowable fees compare to impact fees in peer jurisdictions, 
consultants and staff prepared a comparison for each fee individually and for all impact fees in aggregate. Staff will explore 
these comparisons in greater detail during the staff presentation, but Table 2 below shows the aggregate fee comparison 
across several land use categories.
438 of 734

--- page 439 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Table 2: Fee Comparisons Across Land Use Types and Peer Jurisdictions
Land Use 
Category
Description
Current San Mateo 
Development 
Impact Fees
Maximum 
Allowable 
Development 
Impact Fees*
Average Impact 
Fees of Peer 
Jurisdictions**
Single Family
2,250 sq. ft. single family home
$36,743
$61,762
$42,509
Multi-family
180 unit multi-family 
development (144,000 sq. ft.)
$4,706,708
$7,836,120
$6,183,064
Office
150,000 sq. ft. office building
$4,987,035
$8,054,233
$4,467,993
Retail
2,500 sq. ft. retail development
$24,503
$83,388
$52,583
Hotel
60,000 sq. ft. hotel with 120 
rooms
$1,192,740
$2,796,600
$1,057,697
*Maximum allowable fees includes highest fee in commercial linkage feasibility study rather than full cost linkage 
fee 
**Peer jurisdictions include: Belmont, Burlingame, Daly City, Millbrae, Mountain View, Palo Alto, Redwood City, 
San Bruno, San Carlos, Santa Clara, and South San Francisco
The Council may wish to use this aggregate comparison (or the individual fee comparisons included in the nexus studies) to 
make decisions about appropriate fee levels. However, it should be noted that the fees charged by peer jurisdictions do 
not necessarily reflect the full costs attributable to future development. 
Developer Outreach
On May 13, staff hosted a virtual meeting with several members of San Mateo’s development community to provide a 
high-level overview of the studies. This meeting provided background on the fees being studied, an explanation of the 
methodology used to review the fee amounts, and presented the maximum justifiable cost based on the updated nexus 
evaluations. Several developers asked questions about the implementation timeline, and the letter from Mike Field of 
Windy Hill Property Ventures (Attachment 3) proposes applying fee changes only to those projects that have not already 
been submitted in a Pre-Application or formal Planning Application. In addition, there were additional concerns raised 
about how these fee changes might impact multi-family developments and the availability of affordable housing, a 
sentiment also echoed in the attached letter.
CITY COUNCIL GUIDANCE REQUESTED:
1.
Is the Council comfortable with the proposed structural changes to the Park Impact/In-Lieu, Childcare Impact, and 
Sewer Fees?
2.
Does the Council wish to subsidize any of the fees, either to promote certain types of development or to maintain 
a fee structure aligned with peer jurisdictions?
a.
Council has the flexibility to set the fees below cost recovery for certain land uses and at full cost for 
others, as long as no fee amount exceeds the maximum allowable cost in the nexus studies.
3.
When would the Council like any changes to go into effect, and how should they apply to projects currently in the 
pipeline?
a.
For example, Council could decide to allow projects with pre-applications or formal planning applications 
that have been deemed complete to pay fees at existing levels. Alternatively (or in addition), Council could 
choose to make changes to the fees effective at a future date or implement any fee increases in phases, 
allowing additional time for the development community to adjust to the changes. 
4.
Does the Council have any additional direction or concerns with the information presented in the nexus studies?
Following the Study Session, staff will incorporate any changes requested and return to Council at a future meeting for 
further discussion. Depending on Council direction, staff will also bring any necessary revisions to the City’s Municipal 
Code and an amended Master Fee Schedule for adoption.
BUDGET IMPACT:
439 of 734

--- page 440 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The nexus reports included as Attachments 1 and 2 provide details on the types of infrastructure and services that the City 
could fund with each impact or in-lieu fee. Exact revenues will depend on the amount of future construction.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This report review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fees Study
Att 2 – Final San Mateo Sewer Capacity Charge Report
Att 3 – Letter from Mike Field, Windy Hill Property Ventures
STAFF CONTACT
Brian Alexander, Senior Management Analyst
balexander@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7209
440 of 734

--- page 441 ---
Development Impact Fee and  
In-Lieu Fees Study 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, CA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 2021 
 
 
matrix
consulting group
441 of 734

--- page 442 ---
Table of Contents 
 
 
 
1. Introduction and Executive Summary 
1 
 
2. Legal Framework 
9 
 
3. Projected Growth and Development 
12 
 
4. Childcare Impact Fee 
15 
 
5. Parks Impact Fee 
24 
 
6. Transportation Impact Fee 
33 
 
7. Public Art In-Lieu 
42 
 
8. Tree Replacement / Landscape In-Lieu Fees 
46 
 
9. Parking In-Lieu Fee 
49 
 
Appendix A: Transportation Project List 
442 of 734

--- page 443 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 1 
1. Introduction and Executive Summary 
 
 
The report, which follows, presents the results of the Development Impact Fee and In-
Lieu Fee Study conducted by the Matrix Consulting Group for the City of San Mateo. 
 
  1 
PROJECT BACKGROUND AND SCOPE OF WORK 
 
The Matrix Consulting Group was retained by the City of San Mateo to Childcare, Public 
Art, Tree Replacement, and Parks and Recreation Impact Fees. Additionally, the City 
internally updated its Parking In-Lieu fee and is also internally working on evaluating its 
Transportation Impact Fee and wanted to include that as part of the impact fee analysis. 
Childcare impact fees have not been reevaluated since 2003 but have been increased 
annually. Cultural Arts in Lieu Fee has not been evaluated since 2001 and has not been 
changed. The Parks Impact Fee was last evaluated in 2012 and has been increased 
annually. The Transportation Impact Fee has not been updated or increased since 2008. 
 
The scope of services of this study is to review and validate the growth and development 
assumptions for the City of San Mateo, as well as determine the proportionate share of 
the impact that should be borne by future development. Impact fees within the state of 
California are governed by the Mitigation Fee Act (AB1600) (Gov. Code §66000 et seq.), 
which requires demonstrating the reasonable relationship that exists between the 
development activity and the proposed benefit. The results of this study allow the City to 
ensure that there is still a nexus between future development and its proportionate impact 
on City infrastructure as well as update the fee amounts to be more reflective of that 
impact.  
 
  2 
GENERAL PROJECT APPROACH AND METHODOLOGY 
 
There are two typical methodologies utilized to calculate impact fees – service level 
standards and specific facility projections. For the purposes of this analysis the project 
team has utilized the more commonly accepted and recognized service level standards 
approach.  
 
The service level standard approach is based on the creation and recognition of existing 
service level standards provided by the jurisdiction to the users of its services (residents, 
employees, students, etc.). As there is new development and growth in the community, 
there is the potential for the service level standard to decline if appropriate measures are 
not taken to retain that service level standard. Therefore, the service level standard 
calculates the impact of each individual on the city’s infrastructure and applies it to future 
individuals and growth. If there is an increase in the service population, there would be a 
corresponding impact on infrastructure, and thereby a nexus for collection of impact fees. 
443 of 734

--- page 444 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 2 
However, if there is no increased population or use of those services, impact fees would 
not be justifiable or applicable. 
 
For the purposes of calculating impact fees associated with Childcare, Cultural Arts, 
Parks, and Transportation, the project team reviewed a variety of data elements from the 
state, regional organizations, county, and city staff. The following points highlight the data 
reviewed through the course of this analysis:  
 
• 
Ordinances: The project team reviewed the City’s ordinances to ensure that there 
was the legal authority to assess and increase current impact fees.  
 
• 
General Plan, Facilities Assessment, Department Master Plans, and CIP 
Plans: Data was reviewed from a variety of city specific documents regarding the 
potential growth in the community, the goals for the city and the departments, as 
well as future capital projects.  
 
• 
Growth and Projection Data: Population, household, dwelling units, and 
employment information for current and future years was obtained from the U.S. 
Census Bureau, the Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) and internal 
City General Plan projection documents.  
 
• 
Service Level Standards: Information such as childcare spaces, public art needs, 
and parks needs were collected, reviewed, and applied for calculation regarding 
future impacts.   
 
• 
Revenues and Expenses: Revenue collected for impact fees was reviewed to 
ensure compliance with reporting practices as well as to calculate an 
administrative overhead percentage. Expense information was reviewed for cost 
estimates for infrastructure as well as overhead allocation to the impact fees.  
 
The above elements were utilized to develop and calculate the updated impact fees 
related to Childcare, Cultural Arts, Parks, and Transportation Impact Fee.  
 
  3 
SUMMARY OF RESULTS 
 
Based upon the results of this analysis, the project team has calculated updated or new 
impact fees for Childcare, Public Art, Parks, Tree In-Lieu, Parking In-Lieu, and 
Transportation. The impact and in-lieu fees have been grouped together based upon the 
city department(s) that manage each fee. Childcare and Public Art are managed by 
Community Development, Parks Impact / In-Lieu and Tree In-Lieu fees are overseen by 
Parks and Recreation, and Parking In-Lieu and Transportation Impact fees are managed 
by Public Works. As outlined in the Mitigation Fee Act, proportional costs associated with 
future infrastructure impacts, along with administrative overhead, were used to calculate 
444 of 734

--- page 445 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 3 
the full cost of the impact fees presented. The following subsections show the results of 
the updated impact fees calculated for the City for each of these areas. 
 
1 
Childcare Impact Fee  
 
The Childcare Impact Fee for the City of San Mateo was developed and implemented in 
2004 to help mitigate the impact of new development upon the need for future childcare 
space needs. The City has increased these fees annually based upon a CPI factor. The 
City’s current impact fees are only assessed on commercial projects greater than 10,000 
sq. ft. In order to ensure there is appropriate proportionately of childcare needs, the impact 
fee was expanded to include residential impacts as well as all new commercial projects, 
regardless of size of the commercial project. Through the course of this analysis, the 
impact fees were evaluated based upon the current projected impacts between 2020 and 
2040. The following table compares the city’s current fees to the full cost fee calculated 
through this study, the resulting surplus / (deficit), and the cost recovery:  
 
Table 1: Childcare Impact Fees – Current vs. Full Cost 
 
Category 
Current 
Fee 
Full Cost Fee 
Surplus / 
(Deficit) Per Unit 
Cost 
Recovery % 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
 
Single Family  
 
$4,308  
 
 
Multi-Family   
 
$3,107  
 
 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per square foot) 
 
 
Commercial / Retail 
$1.08  
$0.36  
$0.72  
300% 
Hotel / Visitor 
$1.08  
$0.13  
$0.95  
831% 
Office / R&D 
$1.08  
$0.62  
$0.46  
174% 
Industrial 
$1.08  
$0.20  
$0.88  
540% 
 
As the City does not currently charge for residential projects, there is no associated 
surplus or deficit or cost recovery that can be calculated. For non-residential projects, 
while all fee categories show an over-recovery, it is important to remember that the full 
cost fees will be assessed on all new commercial projects. This indicates that even though 
on a per unit basis the fee will be reduced, due to its larger applicability it will be able to 
generate the proportionate amount of revenue needed from commercial development. 
The full cost fee calculated through this study represents the maximum fee that the City 
can charge and is inclusive of the administrative fee allowable under the Mitigation Fee 
Act.  
 
2 
Public Arts In-Lieu Impact Fee 
 
The City of San Mateo similar to other surrounding jurisdictions charges an in-lieu fee 
associated with the need for public art for large development projects (those valued at 
greater than $3 million). This fee was implemented in 2003 and has not been changed 
since its implementation. The fee is an in-lieu fee, so the developer has the option to 
either contribute their own public art or pay the city to install and maintain a public art 
445 of 734

--- page 446 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 4 
project. Through the course of this study, the project team evaluated the projects done in 
the last several years to determine the cost needed for public art projects. The following 
table compares the city’s current fees to the defensible fee calculated through this study, 
the resulting surplus / (deficit), and the cost recovery:  
 
Table 2: Public Art In-Lieu Fees – Current vs. Full Cost 
 
Category 
Current Fee 
Full Cost Fee 
Surplus / 
(Deficit) Per Unit 
Cost 
Recovery % 
Art in Public Places Fee 
0.50% 
1.19% 
(0.69%) 
42% 
 
The defensible in-lieu fee amount calculated through this study for the Public Art in-Lieu 
fee is 1.19% of the project valuation. This represents a cost recovery level of 42% 
compared to the city’s current in-lieu fee. The full cost fee calculated through this study 
represents the maximum amount that the City can set for its in-lieu fee.  
 
3 
Tree Replacement Fees  
 
Similar to the Public Art In-Lieu Fee, the project team also calculated an updated tree 
replacement fee. The city has two different tree replacement fees – heritage trees and 
landscape in-lieu fee. Both of these fees are only assessed if the developer is unable to 
install or plant a tree. In that situation, the developer pays to the city the amount 
associated with one landscape unit or one heritage tree to ensure that any impacts can 
be offset by the City. The following table compares the City’s current fees to the full cost 
calculated through this study:  
 
  Table 3: Tree Replacement Fees – Current vs. Full Cost 
 
Category 
Current 
Fee 
Full Cost 
Fee 
Surplus / 
(Deficit) Per Unit 
Cost 
Recovery % 
Heritage Tree Replacement 
$475  
$740  
($265) 
64% 
Landscape In-Lieu 
$321  
$483  
($162) 
66% 
 
As the table indicates, the City is under-recovering for both of its tree-replacement fees. 
These fees are annually updated but do not always take into account the changes in the 
cost associated with the actual tree purchasing costs. The full cost represents the 
maximum amount the City can charge to recover for appropriate impacts.  
 
4 
Parks and Recreation Impact Fee 
 
The City currently has two different Parks and Recreation Impact Fees – Quimby and 
Impact Fee. The Quimby fee is only assessed on subdivided projects and the Impact fee 
is on all residential projects. The Quimby and the Impact Fees currently charged by the 
City have been updated annually based upon the Quimby fee calculation associated with 
the Fair Market Value of an Acre and average residential density. Through the course of 
this study, it was determined that there are more than just land acquisition costs 
446 of 734

--- page 447 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 5 
associated with impacts of new development a more comprehensive Parks and 
Recreation Impact Fee is needed to account for recreation facilities as well as future 
growth due to non-residential or commercial growth within the city. The following table 
compares the City’s current fee to the full cost calculated through this study:  
 
  Table 4: Parks and Recreation Impact Fees – Current vs. Full Cost 
 
Category 
Current 
Fee 
Full Cost 
Fee 
Surplus / 
(Deficit) Per Unit 
Cost 
Recovery % 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
$26,973  
$38,676  
($11,703) 
70% 
Multi-Family 2-4 units 
$16,906  
$35,595  
($18,689) 
47% 
Multi-Family 5+ units 
$19,470  
$26,832  
($7,362) 
73% 
Mobile Homes  
$18,995  
$22,954  
($3,959) 
83% 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per square foot) 
Commercial / Retail 
 
$2.72  
 
 
Hotel / Visitor 
 
$1.00  
 
 
Office / R&D 
 
$4.62  
 
 
Industrial 
 
$1.50  
 
 
 
The City’s proposed Parks and Recreation Impact fees would result in the elimination of 
the Quimby Fee (only charged on subdivision projects) to streamline the applicability of 
the impact fee and the expansion of the current fee to proportionately apply between 
residential and non-residential / commercial growth.  
 
5 
Parking In-Lieu Fee  
 
The City adopted a Parking In-Lieu fee in 2020 at $50,000. This fee was adopted through 
a study session with council. As part of this study, the project team reviewed the analysis 
conducted by City staff and incorporated it into the larger impact fee and in-lieu analysis 
for documentation purposes. City staff calculated the $50,000 based upon the average 
cost to build a parking space in the larger bay area region. This fee is in line with many of 
the other surrounding jurisdictions. Additionally, similar to Public Art and Tree 
Replacement, this fee is an in-lieu fee and only charged if a developer is unable to meet 
the parking requirements. Also, this fee is geographically specific and is limited to the 
Central Parking Improvement District, where there is the greatest impact associated with 
parking needs.  
 
6 
Citywide Transportation Impact Fee  
 
The City currently charges a citywide transportation impact fee. The City last did an 
interim update to this fee in 2017, and as part of this study, it was determined that another 
interim update should occur to the fee to be in compliance with the Mitigation Fee Act. 
The City is in the process of going through a general plan update and once that update 
has been completed it is recommended that a thorough deficiency analysis and 
447 of 734

--- page 448 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 6 
transportation impact fee update be conducted. The following table compares the city’s 
current fee to the full cost fee calculated through this study:  
 
Table 5: Citywide Transportation Impact Fees – Current vs. Full Cost 
 
Category 
Current 
Fee 
Full Cost 
Fee 
Surplus / 
(Deficit) Per Unit 
Cost 
Recovery % 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
$4,761  
$6,255  
($1,494) 
76% 
Multi-Family 
$2,922  
$3,159  
($237) 
92% 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per square foot) 
 
 
Industrial 
$2.85  
$4.18  
($1.33) 
68% 
Retail 
$8.19  
$25.26  
($17.07) 
32% 
Office 
$4.37  
$7.62  
($3.25) 
57% 
Hotel – per room 
New 
$3,978  
N / A 
N / A 
Institution 
New  
$3.25  
N / A 
N / A  
 
As the table indicates, the City is under-recovering for all of its transportation impact fee 
categories, with the largest under-recovery on a cost recovery basis associated with retail 
projects, and the highest cost recovery associated with multi-family dwelling units.  
 
7 
Summary 
 
This report details the calculations for each of the impact fees, as well as validates the 
nexus that exists between the full cost identified and the proportionate impact of new 
development.  
 
  4 
IMPLEMENTATION 
 
The impact fees calculated through this study are representative of the full cost 
associated with the proportionate share and impact of new development within the City. 
City staff, management, and Council can utilize the information in this report to determine 
if new development should bear the full cost of their proportionate impact, or if this share 
should be reduced for development incentivization or other policy considerations and 
factors. The following subsections discuss the key aspects for impact fee implementation 
and updates, which includes: collection of fees, annual reporting requirements, refunds / 
credits / appeals, and annual updates.  
 
1 
Collection of Impact Fees 
 
Section 66007 of the California Government Code outlines when impact fees should be 
paid for residential, multi-family, and commercial occupancies. Impact fees for Residential 
projects should be assessed and paid upon the date of final inspection or issuance of 
certificate of occupancy. For Multi-family and Commercial projects, fees can be paid in 
phases, at the completion of each phase’s final inspections.  
448 of 734

--- page 449 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 7 
 
Alternatively, the City has the option to collect impact fees prior to final inspection. This is 
only applicable if the City already has funds earmarked for specific projects that are in the 
vicinity of or are directly impacted by the proposed development. Typically, these fees 
should be collected at the building phase, and based upon the actual build out (dwelling 
units and square footage).  
 
2 
Annual Impact Fee Reporting Requirements 
 
Section 66006 of the California Government Code dictates that once per year, within 6 
months of the close of the fiscal year, the City must make available to the public detailed 
information regarding impact fees. This detailed information, should at a minimum 
include:  
 
• 
Impact Fee name / type  
• 
Beginning and Ending balance of the account or fund.  
• 
Amount of fees collected in the fiscal year being reported on and the total interest 
earned.  
• 
Identification of project(s) on which the funds are being earmarked for.  
• 
Identification of the approximate date on which the projects would commence.  
• 
Identification of any interfund loans or transfers related to capital projects, and the 
amount of the transfer.  
• 
Amount of any refunds or allocations made on behalf of the impact fee funds.  
 
The above reports must be submitted and reviewed by City Council, within 15 days of 
being posted publicly.  
 
3 
Refunds / Credits / Appeals / Waivers 
 
Section 66001 requires that every five years, the City must make findings regarding the 
utilization of the impact fee revenue and / or proposed utilization of it within five years of 
collection. If such findings are not made within five years of impact fee collection, the City 
must refund the monies to the developer.  
 
As part of the adoption of the impact fee resolution, the City may choose to also identify 
circumstances or instances in which a developer could obtain credits, exemptions, or 
appeal fees. Fee credits are typically obtained in the case of redevelopment, for example, 
if a developer was to redevelop an existing 10 multi-unit complex into a 15 multi-unit 
complex, the developer retains credit for the 10 existing units and only pays impact fees 
on the 5 new units being added. This credit is only provided if the existing facility had 
already paid into impact fees. If the existing development had not paid any impact fees, 
there would be no credit applicable.  
 
449 of 734

--- page 450 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 8 
Impact fee resolution may also include a discussion regarding fee exemptions. If a 
development project is determined to have no documented impact on the facilities for 
which the impact fees are being imposed (through a CEQA or other type of review 
document), then the project may be exempt from impact fees. The exemptions must not 
be granted by right and should be reviewed by City staff and Council to ensure that they 
are warranted and appropriate.    
 
Any reductions in impact fees, or waivers or appeals regarding impact fees, would have 
to be determined by city staff and council and would be granted depending upon the 
nature and proportion of the impact of the future / proposed development on future 
infrastructure needs. Depending upon the nature of the project and its documented 
impacts, there might be a more in-depth process necessary to ensure that all impact fees 
collected are fair, proportionate, and in compliance with AB1600 and the Mitigation Fee 
Act.  
 
4 
Annual Increases  
 
The City’s current ordinances governing the impact fees provide the City with the ability 
to increase impact fees annually based upon either a Consumer Price Index (CPI) or 
Construction Cost Index (CCI). Typically, it is recommended that impact fees be updated 
based upon the CCI, as those are more reflective of actual infrastructure costs. Therefore, 
it is recommended that the City should consider updating all existing ordinances and 
resolutions for current and future impact fees to be annually increased in-line with CCI 
increases. This ensures that increases in construction costs are included in the impact 
fees and proportionate share is passed onto new development.  
  
The annual increase is not meant to be an infinite increase in fees. Per the Mitigation Fee 
Act, the nexus for the impact fees should be reevaluated every five years to ensure that 
there is still an appropriate correlation between the current fee being charged and 
proposed development within the City. 
 
 
 
450 of 734

--- page 451 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 9 
2. 
Legal Framework  
 
 
Impact Fees are a mechanism for new development to pay for their proportionate share 
of impact upon City owned facilities and infrastructure. The following subsections discuss 
the State’s requirements for impact fees and the City’s legal authority for assessing these 
fees.  
 
  1 
STATE LEGAL AUTHORITY 
 
Development Impact Fees are governed by Government Code Section 66000 et seq., 
known as the Mitigation Fee Act, which specifies that there needs to be a nexus between 
the collection of fees and the new residential and non-residential development within a 
City’s service area. It also states that this revenue can only be used to expand current or 
purchase new facilities, infrastructure, and equipment. It does not allow for revenue to be 
used for staffing, maintenance, or other operational costs.  
 
The Mitigation Fee Act, or AB1600, requires that there be certain findings that have to be 
met in order for there to be a reasonable relationship or nexus between the new 
development and the need for new facilities or infrastructure. The following points 
highlight each of the key finding requirements:  
 
• 
Purpose of Fee: The specific types of facilities, infrastructure, equipment, and 
projects for which the impact fee will be utilized. It is important to note it cannot be 
utilized for operational purposes.  
 
• 
Use of Fee Revenue: The revenue collected from the impact fees can only be 
used to fund specific facility expansions, infrastructure improvements, or to 
purchase new equipment.  
 
• 
Benefit Relationship:  The benefit relationship requires that the use of the impact 
fee revenue and the type of development project upon which it is imposed is 
reasonable.  
 
• 
Impact Relationship: In order to establish an impact relationship there needs to 
be a clear and reasonable relationship between the need for the public facility or 
infrastructure and the type of development project upon which the fee is imposed.  
 
• 
Proportionality: The proportionality requirement states that the impact fee 
established must be directly related to the proportionate impact of the type of 
development project.  
 
 
451 of 734

--- page 452 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 10 
For each of the impact fees evaluated through this study, the individual chapter will 
discuss how the fee is able to meet the nexus criteria identified.  
 
  2 
CITY LEGAL AUTHORITY FOR IMPACT FEES  
 
The City of San Mateo has the legal authority to charge for the impact fees identified as 
these fees are referenced in the municipal code or were adopted via resolution. The 
following table summarizes for the City’s impact fees the relevant municipal code and key 
factors:  
 
  Table 6: City Municipal Code Information on Impact Fees 
 
Impact / In-Lieu Fee 
Municipal Code / 
Resolution 
Last 
Studied 
Annual Increase 
Factor 
WWTP Phase II Expansion Fee  
Site Sewer Study  
2006 
Yes 
Transportation Improvement Fee  
Chapter 27.13  
2008 
Yes  
South Trunk Area sewer Improvement 
Fee 
Section 3.54.060 
2018 
Yes 
Central Parking Improvement District per 
Space In-Lieu Fee 
Section 27.64.100 
2020 
Yes 
Art in Public Places 
Section 23.60 
2005 
No 
Tree Replacement 
Chapter 13.35 
2007 
No 
Landscape In-Lieu 
Chapter 27.71.150 
2009 
Yes  
Parks and Landscape Resources 
Chapter 26.64 
Chapter 13.05.70 
2013 
2007 
Yes 
Yes 
Childcare Development Fee  
Resolution No. 34 
2004 
Yes  
Commercial Linkage  
Chapter 23.61 
2016  
Yes  
Below Market Housing Fee  
Resolution No. 121 
2019  
Yes  
 
As outlined in the table above, the City has the authority to charge for all of its current 
impact fees. The majority of the impact or in-lieu fees have not been evaluated for more 
than 5 years. This study does not provide a nexus analysis for the WWTP Phase II 
Expansion Fee, South Trunk Area Sewer Improvement Fee, Central Parking 
Improvement District, Commercial Linkage, and Below Market Housing Fee.  
 
The WWTP Expansion fee is based upon a Site Sewer Study conducted specific to the 
wastewater treatment plan and is a predetermined amount based upon the study and 
until all funds are collected. The Sewer Improvement Fee was last updated in 2018, and 
another update was conducted concurrently with this analysis in 2021.  
 
The Central Parking Improvement District was last updated in 2020 based upon council 
resolution. The fee is limited to the Central Parking Improvement District area and is only 
applicable to any new parking space needs that are generated based upon development. 
The current fee in place was developed based upon extensive research and calculation 
of current parking infrastructure costs within the City of San Mateo.   
 
452 of 734

--- page 453 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 11 
The Commercial Linkage Fee is currently being updated based upon a regional analysis 
for San Mateo, as these fees are based upon the need for development of housing 
throughout the County and Bay Area.  
 
The fees being evaluated or included in this nexus analysis are: Art in Public Places, Tree 
Replacement, Landscape In-Lieu, Parks and Landscape Resources and Childcare 
Development Fees. For the Parks and Landscape and Childcare fees there will need to 
be a required ordinance change as the proposed impact fees include different 
components – non-residential for Parks and residential for Childcare to more accurately 
apportion the impacts of future development.  
 
Lastly, as can be seen the City has a practice of annually increasing its impact fees. 
However, these impact fees are typically increased based upon the Consumer Price 
Index (CPI) factor, which is used for the general user fees. It is recommended that the 
City continue following the best practice of annual increases but change the factor to the 
Construction Cost Index (CCI) rather than CPI. The CCI is a more accurate reflection of 
material and infrastructure costs, which are the primary basis for impact and in-lieu fees.  
 
 
453 of 734

--- page 454 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 12 
3. 
Projected Growth and Development  
 
 
The primary criteria for determining the projected impact of new development for impact 
fees is the amount of projected increase to the City’s population (residential and 
commercial). These projections then form the basis of impact fee calculations. In order to 
calculate the projected growth and development, as well as density requirements, the 
project team reviewed the following sources of data:  
 
• 
Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG): Data from ABAG was utilized 
for 2020 and 2040 Estimates regarding total number of residential populations 
within the City.  
 
• 
General Plan, Facilities Plans, Regional Plans, and City Projections: 
Projection information based upon city and regional documents was utilized for 
cost calculation and assumptions. General Plan and facilities master plan 
information was used to estimate future dwelling units, square footage growth, 
employment information, as well as facility needs. Regional plans were utilized for 
childcare projection needs within the community.  
 
• 
US Census Bureau: The Census Bureau’s American Community Survey (ACS) 
information was used to calculate residential densities.  
 
The information from these sources was utilized to calculate the projected increase in 
population as well as resulting population densities. The following subsections discuss 
the population projections calculated and the population densities used to calculate the 
impact fees.  
 
  1 
POPULATION PROJECTIONS 
 
The basis for impact fees is predicated on sufficient population growth that results in a 
meaningful impact on city infrastructure. The following table shows data published by 
ABAG for the current residential and employment population, 2040 estimates, and 
associated increases for the City of San Mateo:  
 
  Table 7: ABAG Population Projections through 2040 
 
Category 
2020 
Estimates 
2040 
Estimates 
Total Projected 
Increase 
Residential Population 
109,670 
133,005 
23,335 
Employee Population 
62,570 
68,010 
5,440 
 
As the table indicates, ABAG is projecting that the residential population in San Mateo 
will increase by approximately 23,300 and employment population by 5,400.  
454 of 734

--- page 455 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 13 
The numbers noted in this table were used as the basis for all of the proportionate impact 
calculations through this study, with employment information utilized for calculations 
associated with non-residential projected growth. 
 
  2 
POPULATION DENSITIES 
 
In addition to the population projection information, the other set of data that is 
consistently utilized in the calculations is the density associated with residential and non-
residential categories. The following subsections discuss the population density 
assumptions utilized in the calculation of all impact fees in this report.  
 
1 
Residential Population Density  
 
Residential development can be extremely diverse ranging from single family to multi-
family. Depending upon the impact fee category, the City of San Mateo either captures 
the diversity by splitting into two different categories: single family and multi-family or into 
four different categories: Single Family, 2-4 units, 5+ Units, and Mobile Home. Due to 
population fluctuations and variation in dwelling unit assumptions from year to year, 
residential density was recalculated for this impact analysis, incorporating more current 
information rather than relying upon recent nexus analyses. As such, the project team 
utilized information from the American Community Survey (ACS)1 regarding the total 
population per dwelling unit type and the total number of dwelling units to come up with 
the resulting average population density per unit for San Mateo. The following table shows 
this calculation:  
 
  Table 8: Residential Population Density 
 
Category 
Total Population 
Total # of Units 
Population / Unit 
(Avg. Density) 
Single-Family 
               64,430  
       21,144  
            3.05  
2-4 units 
                 6,383  
         2,276  
            2.80  
5+ Units 
               31,806  
       15,045  
            2.11  
Mobile Home  
                      85  
              47  
            1.81  
Multi-Family Composite 
38,274 
17,368 
2.20 
 
The total population for each density category was divided by the associated number of 
dwelling units in order to determine the average population per density type. The average 
density per unit is multiplied by the cost per capita calculation to derive the base impact 
fee. For certain fee categories, only the single-family and multi-family densities are utilized 
and for other categories (Parks Impact Fees – the more detailed densities are utilized).  
 
 
 
 
1 ACS 5-Year Tables B25033 and B25032 were utilized to allow for smoothing across multiple years.  
455 of 734

--- page 456 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 14 
2 
Non-Residential / Commercial Density  
 
Similar to the residential density calculation, a calculation was performed for non-
residential development within the City. The City utilizes four main commercial categories 
– Commercial / Retail2, Hotel / Visitor, Office / R&D, and Industrial. The City is currently 
working with its own internal consultant to update the General Plan. As part of that 
analysis, when conducting the employment projections for the City, the Traffic consultant 
utilized certain assumptions regarding the level of employment per square foot for 
different types of non-residential land uses. Therefore, for consistency purposes, the 
project team utilized the densities as provided by the consultant. The following table 
shows the density associated with each non-residential category type:  
 
  Table 9: Employment Density 
 
Category 
Density (Sq. Ft. per employee) 
Commercial / Retail 
550 
Hotel / Visitor 
1,500 
Office / R&D 
3253 
Industrial 
1,0004 
 
The density (square footage per employee) is multiplied by the cost per capita calculation 
to derive the base impact fee. 
 
The following chapters utilize the assumptions included in this section to help project the 
proportionate impact of new development on the City’s existing and proposed 
infrastructure.   
  
 
 
2 Commercial / Retail is also meant to be an all-encompassing category that includes all types of non-office, non-hotel, and non-
industrial projects and could include grocery stores, retail shops, strip malls, services (i.e., hair, nail, fitness), etc. The City has the 
ability to more clearly define this in its resolution associated with impact fees.   
3 The 325 sq. ft. is an average of the Tech Office (250 sq. ft.) and General Office / R&D (400 sq. ft.) to capture the variety of office 
space in the City.  
4 The 1,000 sq. ft. was calculated by taking the straight average between Light Industrial (750 sq. ft.) and Heavy Industrial (1,250 sq. 
ft.) as the City does not have a multitude of these businesses, therefore, a straight average was used.  
456 of 734

--- page 457 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 15 
4. 
Childcare Impact Fee  
 
 
The City of San Mateo provides support to childcare centers within its city limits. The 
Childcare Impact fee is not a common impact fee, and the City is one of the few cities in 
the region that imposes this fee to help mitigate the impacts of new development as it 
relates to creating the demand for additional childcare facilities and needs. The City’s 
current fee is only applied on commercial projects over 10,000 sq. ft. and is not applied 
to residential projects. Through this study, the project team evaluated the City’s costs as 
it relates to impacts on both residential and non-residential population. The City currently 
supports several childcare facilities and are proposing the addition of new childcare 
facilities to help meet existing and future needs. The following subsections discuss the 
modifications proposed to the current impact fee, growth assumptions and standards 
utilized, cost assumptions and components, impact fee calculation, ability to meet the 
nexus criteria, and a comparative survey of childcare impact fees.  
 
  1 
IMPACT FEE MODIFICATIONS 
 
As aforementioned, the City’s current impact fee adopted in 2004 is only applicable on 
non-residential / commercial projects greater than 10,000 sq. ft. The original nexus 
analysis conducted calculated impact fees for residential categories and specific per sq. 
ft. fees for non-residential categories (i.e., separate fees for commercial vs. office vs. 
hotel). However, only a singular fee was adopted, with the application criteria being non-
residential projects greater than 10,000 sq. ft. 
 
Through this study, the project team discussed the potential of expanding the City’s 
current impact fee to be more reflective of growth and nexus assumptions by not only 
incorporating residential population projections, but also separating the non-residential 
categories by type of development. The separation by type of development more closely 
ties the relationship between new businesses in the City and its impact upon childcare.  
 
Lastly, while the current fee is limited to non-residential projects greater than 10,000 sq. 
ft., the proposed impact fee would be applicable to all new development projects, as even 
small commercial projects (less than 10,000 sq. ft. such as shops or restaurants) can 
generate the need for more childcare in the City. Therefore, all new developments would 
be subject to this impact fee to ensure that every project is paying their fair and 
proportionate share for childcare demand.  
 
  2 
GROWTH PROJECTIONS 
 
The Childcare Impact Fee is based upon the existing and future demand of childcare 
needs for the City of San Mateo. The childcare demands for the City are generated from 
residents and employees working within the city limits. The childcare demand is typically 
457 of 734

--- page 458 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 16 
measured based upon the number of childcare spaces needed. These childcare spaces 
can be in City run and owned facilities, private facilities, or home-care facilities. The 
projected demand for existing residents and employees was sourced from the 2017 
Childcare and Preschool Needs Assessment conducted for San Mateo County. Based 
upon the study and assumptions noted above, the following table shows the existing 
childcare spaces needed by residents and employees by childcare age category:  
 
  Table 10: Estimated Childcare Demand – Number of Spaces 
 
Childcare Age Category Residents Employees 
Total Demand 
 Birth to 1 or Infant  
444 
231 
675 
 2 to 4 or Preschool   
3,301 
348 
3,649 
 5 to 12 or School Age 
3,351 
0 
3,351 
 TOTAL  
7,096 
579 
7,675 
 
As the table indicates, the total demand for current childcare spaces is approximately 
7,675. The childcare spaces were utilized to calculate the current standard per resident 
and per employee. The following table shows the calculation of childcare spaces standard 
per resident and per employee:  
 
  Table 11: Childcare – Current Standard Calculation 
 
Category 
Total Childcare Space 
2020 Estimated Population Standard Per Capita 
Resident 
7,069 
62,570 
0.065 
Employee 
579 
5,440 
0.009 
 
Based upon the current childcare space needs and population, the estimated standard 
per resident is 0.065 spaces or approximately 6.5 spaces per 100 residents and 0.009 
spaces per employee or 0.9 spaces per existing 100 employees in the City.  
 
This standard per capita was applied to the future projected residential and employment 
increases over the next 20 years to calculate the projected demand for childcare spaces 
by resident and employee, as well as overall future demand. The following table shows 
this future projection calculation:  
 
Table 12: Childcare – Future Projected Demand 
 
Category 
Standard Per Capita Projected Population Increase 
Total Childcare Spaces 
Resident 
0.065 
23,335 
1,510 
Employee 
0.009 
5,440 
50 
TOTAL 
 
 
1,560 
 
In order for the City to maintain its current standard of childcare space needs per resident 
and employee, there would be a need for an additional 1,560 childcare spaces over the 
next 20 years.  
 
458 of 734

--- page 459 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 17 
However, it is important to note that not all of these childcare spaces are expected to be 
met through traditional childcare facilities. Some of these needs are met through family 
members, informal daycare centers, and other non-traditional means of childcare. The 
traditional assumption is that only 50% of these projected spaces should be covered 
through Childcare Impact Fee Revenue. The following table shows the expected amount 
of childcare spaces to be funded.  
 
Table 13: Childcare – Projected Childcare Spaces to be Funded  
 
Childcare Spaces Needed 
% to Be Funded Total Childcare Spaces Funded 
1,560 
50% 
780 
 
Based upon the 50% standard, it is assumed that 780 additional childcare spaces should 
be funded through the Childcare Impact Fee.  
 
  3 
COST ASSUMPTIONS AND COMPONENTS 
 
The Childcare Impact Fee revenue is primarily used to fund the construction or expansion 
of existing and future childcare facilities. As the projections are based upon childcare 
spaces, the cost for the childcare facilities must be calculated on a per space basis. In 
2016 Brion & Associates conducted an SMC Early Learning Facilities study that evaluated 
the estimated cost per childcare space based upon different childcare construction types. 
The following table shows the cost per childcare space based upon the type of childcare 
facility:  
Table 14: Childcare Cost Per Space by Type of Childcare Facility 
 
Childcare Facility Type 
Cost Per Childcare Space 
New Bldg Construction 
$43,183 
New or Existing Commercial  
$53,800 
Expanding Existing Centers 
$37,003 
Portable Buildings 
$25,412 
Employer-Based Centers 
$41,033 
 
The cost per childcare space varies significantly depending on facility type, with a portable 
building costing $25,412 per childcare space and a brand new or existing commercial 
building costing $53,800. To determine the average cost per childcare space, the project 
team reviewed with City staff the proportion of childcare facilities expected to be utilized 
over the next five years5 based upon each facility type. As the City does not necessarily 
keep track of facilities based upon the types noted above, staff chose to default to the 
proportion of childcare facilities utilized by San Mateo County in the Brion & Associates 
study. The following table shows by childcare facility type, the cost per space, the 
proportion of facilities, and the resulting cost per space:  
 
5 A time horizon of five years was utilized as mitigation fees are reviewed every five years and it is expected that after 5 years all of 
these assumptions would be reviewed and updated as needed.  
459 of 734

--- page 460 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 18 
 
 
Table 15: Proportionate Cost per Childcare Space 
 
Childcare Facility Type 
Cost Per 
Childcare Space 
Facility 
Proportion 
Proportionate 
Cost Per Space 
New Bldg Construction 
$43,183 
5% 
$2,159 
New or Existing Commercial  
$53,800 
40% 
$21,520 
Expanding Existing Centers 
$37,003 
40% 
$14,801 
Portable Buildings 
$25,412 
10% 
$2,541 
Employer-Based Centers 
$41,033 
5% 
$2,052 
TOTAL PROPORTIONATE COST PER CHILDCARE SPACE 
$43,073 
 
The resulting cost per childcare space is approximately $43,073. The total cost per 
childcare space is applied to the projected childcare spaces to be funded to arrive at the 
total estimated cost for childcare facilities:  
 
Table 16: Estimated Childcare Future Facility Costs 
 
Category 
Amount 
Estimated Childcare Space Needs 
780 
Estimated Cost per Childcare Space 
$43,073 
TOTAL ESTIMATED FUTURE FACILITY COSTS 
$33,597,096 
 
In order to meet the city’s estimated demand of funding 780 future childcare spaces, the 
facility costs would be approximately $33.6 million.  
 
Beyond estimating the future facility needs, the Mitigation Fee Act allows the City to 
charge an administrative fee to recover the costs associated with City staff to monitor and 
report upon the impact fees. The project team calculated the administrative fee based 
upon the total indirect costs allocated with the Childcare Impact Fee Fund from the FY21 
Citywide Cost Allocation Plan and the two-year average revenue collected. The following 
table shows this calculation:  
 
  Table 17: Childcare Admin Fee Calculation 
 
Category 
Childcare Impact Fee Fund 
Citywide Overhead – FY21 Cost Plan6 
$6,842 
Impact Fee Revenue – 2 yr. average 
$479,328 
Admin Fee Rate 
1.35% 
 
As the table indicates, the proposed administrative rate for the Childcare Impact fee is 
1.35%. The current childcare fee calculation for the City does not include an 
administrative fee component.  
 
6 The cost allocation plan allocated approximately $11,575 to 59-3100, of which the Childcare Impact Fee is a sub-program. Based 
upon 3 year history of revenue collected, approximately 56% of those costs were considered to be associated with the Childcare 
Impact Fund.  
460 of 734

--- page 461 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 19 
  4 
IMPACT FEE CALCULATION 
 
The $33.6 million in projected future facility costs for Childcare needs is inclusive of 
residents and employees. The proportion of future childcare needs between residents 
and employees was utilized to allocate the costs between residential and commercial 
growth. The following table shows the calculation for residents and employees:  
 
Table 18: Childcare Cost Allocation Between Residents and Employees 
 
Category 
Future Childcare 
Space Need 
Proportion 
Estimated Childcare 
Facility Cost 
Total 
Allocated Cost 
Resident 
1,510 
97% 
$33,597,096 
$32,520,266 
Employee 
50 
3% 
$33,597,096 
$1,076,830 
 
Due to approximately 97% of the future childcare space needs being related to residents, 
approximately $32.5 million of the $33.6 million is associated with residents.  
  
The total allocated costs to residents and employees is then converted into a cost per 
capita based upon the projected population increase. The following table shows the cost 
per capita calculation for residents and employees:  
 
Table 19: Childcare Cost Allocation Between Residents and Employees 
 
Category 
Total 
Allocated Cost 
Projected 
Population Increase 
Cost Per 
Capita 
Resident 
$32,520,266 
23,335 
$1,394 
Employee 
$1,076,830 
5,440 
$198 
 
The cost per capita is $1,394 for residents compared to $198 for employees. It is expected 
that the cost would be significantly higher for residents as they have the larger proportion 
of childcare demands that need to be met. The cost per capita for residents and 
employees was converted into an impact fee based upon the density per unit. For 
residential properties, the density is per dwelling unit (du) and for commercial properties 
it is per square foot (sq. ft.). The following table shows this calculation:  
 
Table 20: Childcare Impact Fee Calculation  
 
Category 
Cost Per Capita Density / Unit  
Impact Fee 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
$1,394 
3.05 
$4,251 per du 
Multi-Family 
$1,394 
2.20 
$3,066 per du 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per square foot) 
 
 
Commercial / Retail 
$198 
550 $0.36 per sq. ft.  
Hotel  
$198 
1,500 $0.13 per sq. ft.  
Office  
$198 
325 $0.61 per sq. ft.  
Industrial 
$198 
1,000 $0.20 per sq. ft.  
461 of 734

--- page 462 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 20 
The impact fees range from $3,066 per dwelling unit for multi-family to $4,251 for single-
family dwellings. Among commercial properties the cost per square foot varies from a low 
of $0.13 for hotels to a high of $0.61 for Office Projects.  
 
The admin fee can sometimes be included as part of the full fee or a separate add on fee, 
for purposes of this analysis, the admin fee of 1.35% was applied to the impact fees 
calculated to determine the full cost impact fee for Childcare by category. The following 
table shows the full cost calculated.  
 
Table 21: Childcare Impact Fee Calculation Including Administrative Fee 
 
Category 
Impact Fee 
Admin Fee Total Impact Fee 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
$4,251 
$57 
$4,308 per du 
Multi-Family 
$3,066 
$41 
$3,107 per du 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per square foot) 
 
Commercial / Retail 
$0.36 
$0.005 
$0.36 per sq. ft.  
Hotel  
$0.13 
$0.002 
$0.13 per sq. ft.  
Office  
$0.61 
$0.008 
$0.62 per sq. ft. 
Industrial 
$0.20 
$0.003 
$0.20 per sq. ft. 
 
Incorporating the administrative fee enables the city to recover for the financial support 
and staff time associated with monitoring and reporting on the use of impact fee funds. 
The following table compares the City’s current Childcare Impact Fees to the full cost 
impact fees, and the associated surplus / (deficit) per unit:  
 
Table 22: Current vs. Full Cost Childcare Impact Fees 
 
Category 
Current 
Fee 
Full Cost 
Fee 
Surplus / 
(Deficit) Per Unit 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
 
$4,308 
 
Multi-Family 
 
$3,107 
 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per square foot) 
 
Commercial / Retail 
$1.08 
$0.36 
$0.72 
Hotel  
$1.08 
$0.13 
$0.95 
Office  
$1.08 
$0.62 
$0.46 
Industrial 
$1.08 
$0.20 
$0.88 
 
The City currently does not charge any childcare impact fees for residential projects, or 
for commercial projects less than 10,000 sq. ft. Therefore, even though there is a surplus 
that is shown for all commercial categories, that surplus is not accurate as the full cost 
fee would be applicable to all sq. ft. not just projects greater than 10,000 sq. ft.  
 
 
 
462 of 734

--- page 463 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 21 
  4 
NEXUS CRITERIA 
 
As discussed in the legal framework section, in order for an impact fee to be implemented 
it must meet all five of the nexus criteria as established per AB1600. The following table 
outlines each criterion point, and how the proposed Childcare Impact Fee meets the 
AB1600 criteria. 
 
  Table 23: Childcare Impact Fees Nexus Criteria 
 
Criteria 
Meet 
Don’t Meet 
Purpose of Fee 
 
The fee would be used to fund the development of new 
childcare facilities or expand existing childcare facilities.   
 
Use of Fee Revenue 
 
The City has capital improvement plans that outline the 
utilization of this fee revenue for current and future years to 
help ensure that there is appropriate expansion and 
development of childcare facilities to meet current and future 
resident and employee needs.  
 
Benefit Relationship 
 
The use of the impact fee revenue would be to develop new 
facilities or expand existing facilities, which would be directly 
proportional to the increased need for childcare spaces. The 
increase in residential population is related to the number of 
dwelling units and the impact fee would be applicable to 
dwelling units. The increase in employment is related to non-
residential space and is applicable to square footage.  
 
Impact Relationship 
 
Based upon the current childcare demand needs in the City, 
there is a standard level of childcare space needs per resident 
and employee. In order to maintain that standard, the addition 
of new residents and employees would require the need for 
additional childcare spaces. 
 
Proportionality 
 
The proposed impact fee would be a flat fee per dwelling unit 
depending upon the density of the housing units to capture the 
residential impacts as the primary mechanism for addition of 
residential population to the City is through increased dwelling 
units. For employees the fee is based upon non-residential 
square footage as that is the primary mechanism associated 
with increases in employment within the City.  
 
 
As the table demonstrates, the City is able to meet all five of the criteria necessary to 
continue to charge a Childcare Impact Fee.  
 
463 of 734

--- page 464 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 22 
  5 
COMPARATIVE SURVEY 
 
As part of this impact fee analysis, the project team conducted a comparative survey of 
surrounding jurisdictions. It is important to note that the comparative survey only includes 
the fees noted on jurisdiction’s fee schedules and as such may not be reflective of recent 
updates or the full cost associated with those impact fees. Therefore, the comparative 
information should be viewed only as a way of assessing the market for impact fees in 
the region and not a reflection of the full cost associated with impact fees. 
 
There are only two other jurisdictions in the greater bay area that charge a childcare 
impact fee – San Francisco and South San Francisco. The following table compares the 
city’s current fee and proposed full cost fee for Childcare to these two jurisdictions, which 
charge a childcare impact fee:  
 
Table 24: Childcare Impact Fee Comparative Survey 
 
Fee Category / Jurisdiction 
San Mateo – 
Current 
San Mateo - Full 
Cost 
San Francisco 
SSF 
Residential  
 
 
 
 
Single Family 
 
$4,308 
$1.14 per sq. ft. 
$3,463 
Multi-Family 
 
$3,107 
$2.27 per sq. ft. 
$2,582 
Commercial / Non-Residential  
 
 
Commercial – Per Sq. Ft 
$1.087 
$0.36 
$1.958 
$0.68 
Office – Per Sq. Ft 
$1.088 
$0.62 
$1.959 
$1.26 
Industrial – Per Sq. Ft 
$1.088 
$0.20 
$1.959 
$0.50 
Hotel – Per Sq. Ft. 
$1.088 
$0.13 
$1.959 
$0.25 
 
While the City of San Mateo does not currently charge residential projects, both San 
Francisco and South San Francisco do assess an impact fee to those categories. The 
City of San Francisco assesses residential projects a per square foot impact fee, as such 
a new single family home (2,500 sq. ft.) in the City would be assessed an impact fee of 
$2,850 and in South San Francisco it would be assessed $3,463. The City’s proposed full 
cost impact fee of $4,308 would be higher than both fees, but this fee represents the 
maximum fee that could be charged by the city.  
 
In relation to commercial projects, the City of San Francisco is similar to San Mateo in 
that it only charges projects greater than 25,000 sq. ft., as such the fees assessed by San 
Francisco are significantly higher than San Mateo’s current fee and South San 
Francisco’s fee. The City of South San Francisco charges all applicable new development 
regardless of size, and San Mateo’s full cost fees are less than the fees charged by South 
San Francisco.  
 
 
 
7 Only applicable to projects greater than 10,000 sq. ft.  
8 Only applicable to projects greater than 25,000 sq. ft.  
464 of 734

--- page 465 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 23 
 
 
 
465 of 734

--- page 466 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 24 
5. 
Parks Impact Fee 
 
 
The City of San Mateo currently assesses two different parks and recreation related 
impact fees – Quimby and Park and Recreation Impact Fee. The Quimby fee is for 
projects that require subdivision of land and was originally intended for providing 
additional open and park space in the City. It has evolved in recent years per the City to 
Code to also support developing new or rehabilitating existing park or recreational 
facilities. The Parks and Recreation Impact fee is applicable to all residential projects that 
are not single-family detached or additional / accessory dwelling units within the city and 
is currently assessed the same fee. Both of these fees are only applied on residential 
projects, with no fees assessed to commercial projects that have an impact upon the 
community. Through this study, the project team evaluated the City’s costs as it relates 
to impacts on both residential and non-residential population increases. The following 
subsections discuss the modifications proposed to the current impact fees, growth 
assumptions and standards utilized, cost assumptions and components, impact fee 
calculation, ability to meet the nexus criteria, and a comparative survey of parks and 
recreation impact fees.  
 
  1 
IMPACT FEE MODIFICATIONS 
 
As discussed, the City currently assesses two different types of impact fees related to 
parks and recreation – Quimby and Parks and Recreation Impact Fee. The Quimby Fee 
is specific to parkland acreage and typically can only be used to purchase land necessary 
to meet the City’s standard acreage per resident. The Parks and Recreation Impact Fee 
can be used for all capital-related purchases – land, facilities, and equipment related to 
parks and recreation.   
 
The Quimby Fee is governed by the Quimby Act and is only applicable on projects that 
require land subdivision. Therefore, if a City is built out or has limited space available for 
parcel subdivisions, such as San Mateo, this fee is rarely charged. Additionally, it is based 
upon purchasing land space for additional parks or for open space in the City. The City 
has also utilized these funds for recreational facility upgrades and purchases. Through 
this study, the project team discussed the potential of modifying the City’s current impact 
fees related to parks and recreation to be simplified, by eliminating the need for the 
Quimby Fee. The elimination of the Quimby Fee would require the City to repeal the 
Parkland Dedication fee outlined in Chapter 26.64.010 and create separate provisions for 
fee credits related to the new proposed impact fee.  
 
The initial purpose of the Quimby Fee was to ensure that the City established a standard 
of certain number of acres per 1,000 residents and that the standard was maintained as 
there was greater growth and expansion. However, the fee can only be assessed on 
subdivided parcels, which greatly limits the city’s ability to assess the fee and meet the 
initial intent of the Quimby fee. Therefore, it is being proposed that instead of having a 
466 of 734

--- page 467 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 25 
separate fee for residential projects that are not being subdivided to meet the City’s 
existing standard, the requirement for the acreage can be incorporated into the Parks and 
Recreation Impact Fee.  
 
In addition to the proposed modification related to the elimination of the Quimby Fee, the 
project team also worked with the Department to expand the current Parks and 
Recreation Impact Fee to include impacts associated with commercial (i.e., retail, hotel, 
office, industrial, etc.) projects, whose employees utilize the City of San Mateo’s parks 
and its facilities. This expansion of the impact fee allows the City to better distribute its 
support among all residential and non-residential projects based upon their proportional 
impact upon the city’s park infrastructure and park acreage growth.  
 
  2 
GROWTH PROJECTIONS 
 
The Parks and Recreation Impact Fee is based upon the future demand of parks and 
recreation facilities and acreage. The future demand is based upon the projected ABAG 
growth for the City. The City’s current impact fee only accounts for residential growth; yet, 
as discussed, there is an impact associated with non-residential growth. However, the 
impact of the non-residential population is not the same as the residential population, 
therefore, we had to calculate the equivalency of employees (non-residents) to residential 
population. Employees would generally use recreation facilities and infrastructure 
significantly less than the residents in the city The following table shows the current 
population for residents and employees, the proportionate weight based upon projected 
utilization of the park system, and the equivalent residential population:  
 
  Table 25: Current Service Population 
 
Category 
Existing Population Weighting Factor 
Equivalent Residential Population 
Residents 
               109,670  
100% 
       109,670  
Employees 
                  62,570  
25%9 
         15,643  
TOTAL 
 
 
125,313 
 
The total service population for the City is currently approximately 125,313 residents and 
employees. Similar to this methodology, the project team also calculated the future growth 
based upon the same weighting factor as calculating the existing residential population.  
 
  Table 26: Projected Service Population 
 
Category 
2040 ABAG Population Weighting Factor Equivalent Residential Population 
Residents 
       133,005  
100% 
             133,005  
Employees 
         68,010  
25% 
                17,003  
TOTAL 
       201,015  
 
             150,008  
 
 
9 Assume that employees can utilize park for 3 out of 12 hours that park is open (7am-7pm or 8am -8pm).  
467 of 734

--- page 468 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 26 
The total projected service population for the City is 150,008 people by 2040. The 
projected population of 150,008 compared to the current population of 125,313, 
represents a growth of 20% in the next 20 years. This 20% will serve as the basis upon 
which all proposed park improvement costs will be attributed to new development.  
 
In addition to the proportion of new service population growth, the proposed Park and 
Recreation Impact Fee will also incorporate the acreage per 1,000 resident’s standard 
that was part of the Quimby Fee calculation. The City’s adopted standard per the 
municipal code is 2 acres per 1,000 residents. The City is currently at this standard, based 
upon total number of park acres and population. In order for the City to retain this standard 
as the residential population increases, the City will need to acquire additional park 
acreage. The following table shows the proportionate number of acres needed to account 
for new residential growth:  
 
  Table 27: Proposed New Acres Needed Based Upon Acreage Standard 
 
Category 
Amount 
Current Acreage Standard – per resident  
0.002 acres 
Projected Residential Growth 
23,335 residents 
Total New Acres Required 
46.67 acres 
 
Based upon the standard of 0.002 acres per resident and growth of 23,335 residents over 
the next 20 years, the City will need to acquire an additional 46.67 acres to retain this 
standard.   
 
  3 
COST ASSUMPTIONS AND COMPONENTS 
 
The Parks and Recreation Impact Fee is primarily used to fund the acquisition of land, 
parks equipment, recreation center improvements, as well as general parks and 
recreation-related infrastructure costs. The proposed Parks and Recreation Impact fee is 
based upon two different types of costs – infrastructure improvements from the City’s 
Capital Improvement Plan (CIP) and costs associated with acquiring acreage. The 
following table shows the two different types of cost components and cost calculated 
through this study:  
 
Table 28: Parks and Recreation Impact Fee Cost Types  
 
Category 
Amount 
Parks and Recreation CIP Costs10 
$367,710.000 
Acreage Cost 
$228,165,61611 
TOTAL 
$595,875,616 
 
10 The CIP costs are based upon a 10 year project listing that includes improvements to different parks, play areas, as well as to the 
Central Park master Plan for the City. It is expected that these infrastructure improvements will be reviewed and updated every 5 yrs. 
11 The acreage cost is calculated based upon a $4,888,914 fair market value per acre as noted in the City’s FY20/21 Master Fee 
Schedule multiplied by the new proposed acres of 46.67 as calculated in Table 38.  
468 of 734

--- page 469 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 27 
 
The total cost of Parks and Recreation infrastructure and land acquisition costs are 
approximately $596 million. It is important to note that not all $596 million should be borne 
by new development as these proposed projects will also benefit existing residents. 
However, the new acreage cost, would be borne entirely by residential new development, 
as the only reason this new acreage is being required is due to expected residential 
growth within the City.  
 
Beyond estimating the future facility needs, the Mitigation Fee Act allows the City to 
charge an administrative fee to recover the costs associated with City staff to monitor and 
report upon the impact fees. The project team calculated the administrative fee based 
upon the total indirect costs allocated to the Parks and Recreation Impact Fee Fund from 
the FY21 Citywide Cost Allocation Plan and the three-year average revenue collected. 
The following table shows this calculation:  
 
  Table 29: Parks and Recreation Impact Fee – Admin Fee Calculation 
 
Category 
Parks and Rec Impact Fee Fund 
Citywide Overhead – FY21 Cost Plan 
$16,866 
Impact Fee Revenue – 3 yr. average 
$1,948,129 
Admin Fee Rate 
0.87% 
 
The proposed administrative rate for the Parks and Recreation Impact fee is 0.87%. The 
current parks and recreation impact fee calculation for the City does not include an 
administrative fee component.  
 
  4 
IMPACT FEE CALCULATION 
 
The proposed Parks and Recreation impact fee incorporates the impact associated with 
both commercial and residential development, therefore, in order to allocate the costs 
between residents and employees, the proportion of future service population needs 
between residents and employees was utilized. The following table shows the calculation 
for residents and employees:  
 
Table 30: Parks and Recreation Proportion Calculation Between Residents and Employees 
 
Category 
Projected Service Population 
Proportion 
Resident 
133,005 
89% 
Employee 
17,003 
11% 
Total  
150,008 
100% 
 
Based upon the projected service population, approximately 89% of the future costs 
would be associated with residents and 11% would be for employees. However, not all 
costs will be allocable to employees, as previously discussed, the Acreage costs, which 
469 of 734

--- page 470 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 28 
is based upon the residential standard would only be borne by future residents and not 
future employees.  
 
As outlined in the cost component section, the $596 million is not fully allocable to new 
development. Therefore, the project team utilized the growth projections in this chapter 
to determine the proportional amount associated with new development. The following 
table breaks down these same costs and shows the proportional amount to be borne by 
new development:  
 
Table 31: Parks and Recreation Impact Costs to be Borne by New Development  
 
Category 
Amount 
Proportion Total Cost 
Parks and Recreation CIP Costs 
$367,710,000 
20%12 
$73,542,000 
Acreage Cost 
$228,165,616 
100% $228,165,616 
TOTAL 
$595,875,616 
 $301,707,616 
 
The total proposed parks and recreation infrastructure and land improvements to be 
borne by new development is approximately $301.7 million. In these cost categories, the 
Parks and Recreation CIP costs are attributable to both residents and non-residents; 
however, as the acreage cost is based upon the standard per resident those costs are 
only attributable to future residents. The following table shows by cost category the total 
costs attributed to residents and employees:  
 
Table 32: Parks and Recreation Impact Costs Allocated Between Residents and Employees   
 
Category 
Amount 
Proportion Total Cost 
Parks and Recreation CIP Costs – Residents 
$73,542,000 
89% 
$65,452,380 
Park Acreage Cost – Residents Only 
$228,165,616 
100% $228,165,616 
Subtotal Residents 
 
 $293,617,996 
Parks and Recreation CIP Costs – Employees 
$73,542,000 
11% 
$8,089,620 
Subtotal Employees  
 
 
$8,089,620 
TOTAL 
 
 $301,707,616 
 
Of the $301.7 million to be borne by future development, approximately $293.6 million 
would be allocated to residential growth and approximately $8.1 million to non-residential 
or commercial growth. The total allocated costs to residents and employees is then 
converted into a cost per capita based upon the projected service population increase. 
The following table shows the cost per capita calculation for residents and employees:  
 
Table 33: Parks and Recreation Cost Allocation Between Residents and Employees 
 
Category 
Total Allocated Cost 
Projected Pop. Inc. 
Cost Per Capita 
Resident 
$293,617,996 
23,335 
$12,583 
Employee 
$8,089,620 
5,440 
$1,487 
 
 
12 The 20% is based upon the projected increase in service population as calculated in the growth section of this chapter.  
470 of 734

--- page 471 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 29 
The cost per capita is $12,583 for residents compared to $1,487 for employees. It is 
expected that the cost would be significantly higher for residents as they have the larger 
use of the parks and recreation facilities, as well as the fact that they are the primary 
driver for maintaining the city’s standard acreage per resident. The cost per capita for 
residents and employees was converted into an impact fee based upon the density per 
unit. For residential properties, the density is per dwelling unit (du) and for commercial 
properties it is per square foot (sq. ft.). The following table shows this calculation:  
 
Table 34: Parks and Recreation Impact Fee Calculation  
 
Category 
Cost Per Capita Density / Unit  
Impact Fee 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
$12,583 
3.05 
$38,342 per du 
Multi-Family 2-4 units 
$12,583 
2.80 
$35,288 per du 
Multi-Family 5+ units 
$12,583 
2.11 
$26,601 per du 
Mobile Homes  
$12,583 
1.81 
$22,756 per du 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per square foot) 
 
 
Commercial / Retail 
$1,487 
550 $2.70 per sq. ft.  
Hotel  
$1,487 
1,500 $0.99 per sq. ft.  
Office  
$1,487 
325 $4.58 per sq. ft.  
Industrial 
$1,487 
1,000 $1.49 per sq. ft.  
 
The impact fees range from $22,756 per dwelling unit for mobile homes to $38,242 for 
single-family dwellings. Among commercial properties the cost per square foot varies 
from a low of $0.99 for hotels to a high of $4.58 for Office Projects.  
 
The admin fee of 0.87% was applied to the impact fees calculated to determine the full 
cost Parks and Recreation Impact Fee by category. The following table shows the full 
cost calculated.  
 
Table 35: Parks and Recreation Impact Fee Calculation Including Administrative Fee 
 
Category 
Impact Fee 
Admin Fee Total Impact Fee 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
$38,342 
$334 
$38,676 per du 
Multi-Family 2-4 units 
$35,288 
$307 
$35,595 per du 
Multi-Family 5+ units 
$26,601 
$231 
$26,832 per du 
Mobile Homes  
$22,756 
$198 
$22,954 per du 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per square foot) 
 
Commercial / Retail 
$2.70 
$0.02 
$2.72 per sq. ft.  
Hotel  
$0.99 
$0.01 
$1.00 per sq. ft.  
Office  
$4.58 
$0.04 
$4.62 per sq. ft. 
Industrial 
$1.49 
$0.01 
$1.50 per sq. ft. 
 
Incorporating the administrative fee enables the city to recover for the financial support 
and staff time associated with monitoring and reporting on the use of impact fee funds. 
The following table compares the City’s current Parks and Recreation Impact Fees to the 
full cost impact fees, and the associated surplus / (deficit) per unit:  
471 of 734

--- page 472 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 30 
Table 36: Current vs. Full Cost Parks and Recreation Impact Fees 
 
Category 
Current 
Fee 
Full Cost 
Fee 
Surplus / 
(Deficit) Per Unit 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
$26,973 
$38,676 
($11,703) 
Multi-Family 2-4 units 
$16,906 
$35,595 
($18,689) 
Multi-Family 5+ units 
$19,470 
$26,832 
($7,362) 
Mobile Homes  
$18,995 
$22,954 
($3,959) 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per square foot) 
 
Commercial / Retail 
 
$2.72 
 
Hotel  
 
$1.00 
 
Office  
 
$4.62 
 
Industrial 
 
$1.50 
 
 
The City is currently under-recovering for all residential impact fee categories, with the 
smallest deficit of $3,900 associated with mobile homes and the largest deficit of $18,700 
per dwelling unit for 2-4 unit multi-family dwellings. The City currently does not charge 
any parks and recreation impact fees for commercial projects, as such there is no 
applicable deficit or surplus to be calculated.   
 
  4 
NEXUS CRITERIA 
 
As discussed in the legal framework section, in order for an impact fee to be implemented 
it must meet all five of the nexus criteria as established by AB1600. The following table 
outlines each criterion point, and how the proposed Parks and Recreation Impact Fee 
meets the AB1600 criteria. 
 
  Table 37: Parks and Recreation Impact Fees Nexus Criteria 
 
Criteria 
Meet 
Don’t Meet 
Purpose of Fee 
 
The fee would be used to fund the development of new parks 
and recreation facilities, improving existing playground areas, 
and acquiring additional acreage to meet the City’s established 
standard of 2 acres per 1,000 residents.    
 
Use of Fee Revenue 
 
The City has capital improvement plans that outline the 
utilization of this fee revenue for current and future years to 
help ensure that there is appropriate expansion and 
development of parks and recreation facilities and areas to 
meet current and future resident and employee needs.  
 
472 of 734

--- page 473 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 31 
Criteria 
Meet 
Don’t Meet 
Benefit Relationship 
 
The use of the impact fee revenue would be to develop new 
facilities or expand or improve existing facilities, which would be 
directly proportional to the increased wear and tear and use of 
parks and recreation facilities as there is new residential and 
commercial growth in the City. The increase in residential 
population is related to the number of dwelling units and the 
impact fee would be applicable to dwelling units. The increase 
in employment is related to non-residential space and is 
applicable to square footage.  
 
Impact Relationship 
 
Based upon the current and proposed parks and recreation 
facility needs in the City, the addition of new residents and 
employees would require the need for new facilities, new 
acreage, and expanded facilities.  
 
Proportionality 
 
The proposed impact fee would be a flat fee per dwelling unit 
depending upon the density of the housing units to capture the 
residential impacts as the primary mechanism for addition of 
residential population to the City is through increased dwelling 
units. For employees the fee is based upon non-residential 
square footage as that is the primary mechanism associated 
with increases in employment within the City.  
 
 
As the table demonstrates, the City is able to meet all five of the criteria necessary to 
charge the proposed consolidated Parks and Recreation Impact Fee.  
 
  5 
COMPARATIVE SURVEY 
 
As part of this impact fee analysis, the project team conducted a comparative survey of 
surrounding jurisdictions and if they charge a Parks and Recreation Impact Fee. It is 
important to note that the comparative survey only includes the fees noted on jurisdiction’s 
fee schedules and as such may not be reflective of recent updates or the full cost 
associated with those impact fees. Therefore, the comparative information should be 
viewed only as a way of assessing the market for impact fees in the region and not a 
reflection of the full cost associated with impact fees. The following table compares the 
city’s current and proposed full cost to other surveyed jurisdictions in the region, which 
charge a Parks and Recreation Impact Fee:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
473 of 734

--- page 474 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 32 
Table 38: Parks and Recreation Impact Fee Comparative Survey 
 
Fee 
Category 
/ 
Jurisdiction 
San Mateo 
– Current 
San Mateo - 
Full Cost 
Redwood 
City 
Santa 
Clara13 
SSF14 
San 
Carlos 
Residential  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Single Family 
$26,973 
$38,676 
$12,733 
$36,044
-
$43,296 
$29,124 
$2,245 
per 
bedroom 
Multi-Family 2-4 units 
$16,906 
$35,595 
$11,452 
$29,028
-
$34,869 
$25,157 
Multi-Family 5+ units 
$19,470 
$26,832 
$11,128 
$21,358 
Mobile Homes  
$18,995 
$22,954 
 
$22,371 
Commercial / Non-Residential  
 
 
 
 
Commercial – Per Sq. 
Ft 
 
$2.72 
 
 
$1.26 
 
Office – Per Sq. Ft 
 
$4.62 
$2.96 
Industrial – Per Sq. Ft 
 
$1.50 
$1.40 
Hotel – Per Sq. Ft. 
 
$1.00 
$1.20 
 
The City of San Mateo’s current fees are higher than Redwood City, lower than Santa 
Clara, and slightly less than the City of South San Francisco. The City’s full cost fees 
calculated through this study are higher than Redwood City and South San Francisco, 
but lower or in alignment with the City of Santa Clara. The City of San Carlos only charges 
residential projects and charges on a per bedroom basis.  
 
In relation to commercial projects, the City of South San Francisco is the only other 
surveyed jurisdiction in the region that charges non-residential parks and recreation 
impact fees. The City’s proposed full cost parks and recreation non-residential impact 
fees are lower than those charged by South San Francisco, with the exception of the 
Office category, which has a higher rate at $4.62 compared to the $3.17 per sq. ft. in 
South San Francisco.  
 
 
 
 
 
13 The City of Santa Clara’s fee varies based upon the zip code of the development.  
14 The City of South San Francisco (SSF) also includes an additional $700 administrative fee.  
474 of 734

--- page 475 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 33 
6. 
Transportation Impact Fee  
 
 
The City of San Mateo currently assesses a transportation impact fee on new residential 
and commercial development projects within the city. The impact fee accounts for 
transportation-related improvements – roadways, traffic signals, transportation master 
plans, etc. The City last updated this fee in 2017 and is interested in conducting another 
update to this fee as part of the larger development impact fee study. The City is in the 
midst of going through a general plan update and it is recommended that once the update 
is completed all fees based upon growth projections should be reviewed, including the 
transportation impact fee. The following subsections discuss the modifications proposed 
to the current impact fee, growth assumptions and standards utilized, cost assumptions 
and components, impact fee calculation, ability to meet the nexus criteria, and a 
comparative survey of transportation impact fees.  
 
  1 
IMPACT FEE MODIFICATIONS 
 
The City’s current transportation impact fee is applicable to residential and commercial 
projects; however, within commercial projects it is only applicable to retail, office, and 
warehouse. The City is interested in expanding the current impact fee category for 
commercial to include hotels as well as institutions. This will enable the City to more 
proportionately and accurately assess the impacts of those new commercial 
developments upon transportation-related infrastructure.  
 
  2 
GROWTH PROJECTIONS 
 
The Transportation Impact Fee is based upon the future demand on transportation 
infrastructure due to new residents and employees moving into the City. The future 
demand is based upon the projected ABAG growth for the City. The project team 
calculated the projected increase in total population by taking the difference between 
2040 Population and 2020 population and dividing it by the starting population (2020 
population). The following table shows the current population for residents and 
employees, the 2040 projected growth and the resulting increase in population:  
 
  Table 39: Projected Population Growth 
 
Category 
2020 
Population 
2040 
Population 
Population 
Growth 
% Increase 
(Growth) 
Residents 
109,670  
133,005 
23,335 
21% 
Employees 
62,570  
68,010 
5,440 
9% 
TOTAL POPULATION 
172,240 
201,015 
28,775 
17% 
 
475 of 734

--- page 476 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 34 
Based upon the projected growth of 28,775 divided by the 172,240 current population 
(2020 population), the projected increase in growth is expected to be 17%. This 17% 
growth factor is used to allocate the associated project costs associated with the 
Transportation Impact Fee.  
 
In addition to growth projections associated with overall new development compared to 
existing residents and employees in the city, the project team also analyzed the 
proportional impact of residential and commercial development on transportation 
infrastructure. In order to develop the proportional impact upon infrastructure, the project 
team utilized commercial and residential trip rate information, combined with growth 
projections for those categories to determine the weighting factors for residential and 
commercial growth. The following table shows by land use category, the trip rate (based 
upon ITE land use categories), the proportion of growth and the resulting trip rate ratio:  
 
  Table 40: Projected Residential and Commercial Trip Rate Proportion 
 
Category 
Trip Rate 
Growth Proportion15 
Resulting Trip Rate Ratio 
Single-Family Residential 0.99 per dwelling unit 
0% 
0.00 
Multi-Family Residential 
0.50 per dwelling unit 
100% 
0.50 
Subtotal Residential 
 
 
0.50 
Industrial 
0.63 per 1,000 sq. ft. 
0% 
0.00 
Retail 
3.81 per 1,000 sq. ft. 
17% 
0.63 
Office 
1.15 per 1,000 sq. ft.  
83% 
0.96 
Hotel 
0.60 per hotel room 
0% 
0.00 
Institution 
0.49 per 1,000 sq. ft.  
0% 
0.00 
Subtotal Commercial  
 
 
1.59 
 
The Trip Rate for each land use category was multiplied by the projected growth for that 
specific category to develop the resulting trip rate ratio. The resulting trip rate ratio was 
then summarized for each major category – 0.50 for Residential and 1.59 for commercial. 
The resulting trip rate ratio is then used as the weighting factor to determine the overall 
service population for each category. The following table takes the ABAG population 
growth projections (difference between 2040 and 2020 population from Table 39) and 
multiplies it by the weighting factor (the resulting trip rate ratio from Table 40) to calculate 
the weighted population and the split between commercial and residential (residential 
weighted population divided by total weighted population and same for commercial):  
 
   Table 41: Proportion of Residential vs. Commercial Growth  
 
Category 
Population Growth 
Weight Factor Weighted Population % Split 
Residential 
23,335 
0.50 
11,668 
57% 
Commercial 
5,440 
1.59 
8,650 
43% 
TOTAL  
28,775 
 
20,318 
 
 
 
15 The projected growth is based upon converting population projections to dwelling units and square footage per employee based 
upon job sector.  
476 of 734

--- page 477 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 35 
As the table indicates the split between residential and commercial growth from a 
transportation impact perspective based upon trip rate and projected growth within the 
city is 57% for residential and 43% for commercial. This information is utilized to 
proportionately allocate the costs between residential and commercial development in a 
later section of this chapter. 
 
In addition to developing the proportional amount of impact to be split between residential 
and commercial development, the project team also utilized the population projections to 
forecast the projected number of dwelling units and sq. ft. of development. The following 
table shows by category, the total projected population growth (from Table 41) multiplied 
by the density factor utilized (based upon the density standards discussed in Tables 8 
and 9 of the report) to calculate the resulting number of dwelling units or sq. ft.:  
 
  Table 42: Proportion of Residential vs. Commercial Growth  
 
Category 
Population Growth 
Density Factor 
Total Projected Growth 
Residential 
23,335 2.2 persons per dwelling unit 
10,607 DU (Dwelling Units) 
Commercial 
5,440 
43816 sq. ft. per employee 
2,380,000 sq. ft.  
 
The 10,607 dwelling units and the 2.38 million sq. ft. are then further split within the 
different types of land uses based upon projected projects in the pipeline as well as ABAG 
growth projections. The total projected growth from Table 42 for residential and 
commercial was multiplied by the growth proportional projections from Table 40 to 
calculate the total specific projected growth for each land use type:  
 
   Table 43: Projected Residential and Commercial Trip Rate proportion 
 
Land Use 
Total Projected Growth Growth Proportion17 
Specific Growth 
Single-Family Res. 
10,607 DU 
0% 
0 
Multi-Family Residential 
100% 
10,607 DU 
Industrial 
2,380,000 sq. ft.  
0% 
0 
Retail 
17% 
404.6 per 1,000 sq. ft. 
Office 
83% 
1,975.4 per 1,000 sq. ft 
Hotel 
0% 
0 
Institution 
0% 
0 
 
The total specific dwelling units and square footage for each land use type were then 
converted into projected trips for each major category based upon the ITE established 
trip rates (referenced in Table 40). The following table calculates by land use the total 
projected trips by taking the specific projected growth (Dwelling Units or Sq. Ft. from Table 
43) and multiplying it by the trip rate (Table 40):  
 
 
16 Based upon the average of 550 and 325 sq. ft. per employee for the two most common types of commercial development within the 
City – Retail (550 sq. ft. per employee) and Office (325 sq. ft. per employee).  
17 The projected growth is based upon converting population projections to dwelling units and sq. ft. per employee based upon job 
sector.  
477 of 734

--- page 478 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 36 
  Table 44: Total Projected Trips 
 
Land Use 
Specific Projected 
Units or Sq. Ft. 
Trip Rate 
Resulting Trips 
Single-Family Residential 
0 
0.99 
0.00 
Multi-Family Residential 
10,607 DU 
0.50 
5,303.5 
Subtotal Residential  
 
 
5,303.5 
Industrial 
0 
0.63 
0.00 
Retail 
404.6 sq. ft. 
3.81 
1,541.53 
Office 
1,975.4 sq. ft 
1.15 
2,271.71 
Hotel 
0 
0.60 
0.00 
Institution 
0 
0.49 
0.00 
Subtotal Commercial  
 
 
3,813.24 
 
Based upon the specific projected units or sq. ft. calculated in Table 44 multiplied by IT 
standard trip rates, the City is expected to increase its trips by 5,303.5 for residential and 
3,813.24 for commercial over the next 20 years. These trip projections are utilized as the 
basis for the calculation of the impact fees.  
 
  3 
COST ASSUMPTIONS AND COMPONENTS 
 
The Transportation Impact Fee is used to fund transportation related improvements. City 
staff developed a comprehensive listing of transportation improvement projects that would 
benefit both existing and new development within the City. The detailed project listing is 
included as an appendix to this report. The following table lists by major project category, 
the total costs associated with the project:  
 
Table 45: Transportation Improvement Costs  
 
Category 
Total Project Cost 
Freeway & Interchange Improvements 
$306,467,481 
Major Street Improvements 
$1,660,000 
Intersection Improvements 
$696,872 
Bicycle & Pedestrian Improvements  
$33,700,000 
Traffic Modal Maintenance & Update 
$348,436 
TOTAL 
$342,827,788 
 
The total cost of Transportation Improvement infrastructure costs is approximately $342 
million. It is important to note that not all $342 million should be borne by new 
development as these proposed projects will also benefit existing residents.  
 
Beyond estimating the future improvement needs, the Mitigation Fee Act allows the City 
to charge an administrative fee to recover the costs associated with City staff to monitor 
and report upon the impact fees. As these services are primarily performed by staff in the 
Finance Department, the support for this function was captured through the City’s Cost 
Allocation Plan process. The project team calculated the administrative fee by taking the 
478 of 734

--- page 479 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 37 
total indirect costs allocated to the Transportation Impact Fee Fund from the FY21 
Citywide Cost Allocation Plan and dividing it by the three-year average revenue collected. 
The following table shows this calculation:  
 
  Table 46: Transportation Impact Fee – Admin Fee Calculation 
 
Category 
Transportation Impact Fee Fund 
Citywide Overhead – FY21 Cost Plan 
$6,114 
Impact Fee Revenue – 3 yr. average 
$1,704,117 
Admin Fee Rate 
0.36% 
 
The proposed administrative rate for the Transportation Impact fee is 0.36%. The current 
transportation impact fee calculation for the City does not include an administrative fee 
component. It is recommended that the City consider adding this minimum fee component 
to recover the costs associated with administrative staff for generating annual revenue 
reports and reporting on the usage of impact fees.  
 
  4 
IMPACT FEE CALCULATION 
 
While the Transportation Impact Fee is based upon the total transportation improvements 
within the City, the full $342 million is not intended to be borne by new development. 
Therefore, the project team utilized the 17% growth projection (from Table 39), which 
correlates to overall projected growth in the city, to determine the proportional amount 
associated with new development. The following table multiplies the total project cost by 
new growth proportional amount to determine the cost to be borne by new development:  
 
Table 47: Transportation Impact Costs to be Borne by New Development  
 
Category 
Total Project Cost 
New Growth New Development Cost 
Freeway & Interchange Improvements 
$306,467,481 
17% 
$52,099,472 
Major Street Improvements 
$1,660,000 
17% 
$282,200 
Intersection Improvements 
$696,872 
17% 
$118,468 
Bicycle & Pedestrian Improvements  
$33,700,000 
17% 
$5,729,000 
Traffic Model Maintenance & Update 
$348,436 
100%18 
$348,436 
TOTAL 
$342,827,788 
 
$58,577,576 
 
Of the $342 million, only $58.6 million is associated with new development. The cost 
associated with new development was then further allocated between residents and 
employees (commercial) based upon the weighted growth and trip factors previously 
calculated (Table 41). The following table multiplies the new development cost by 
residential and commercial development growth (calculated in Table 41) to determine the 
total allocated cost between residential and commercial projects:  
 
 
18 The update to the traffic model is only needed due to projected new development, as such it was determined that new 
development should bear 100% of the cost of that improvement.  
479 of 734

--- page 480 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 38 
 
Table 48: Transportation Impact Costs Split Between Residential and Commercial 
 
Category 
Total New Development Cost 
Proportion 
Total Allocated Cost 
Residential 
$58,577,576 
57% 
$33,389,218  
Commercial 
43% 
$25,188,358  
Total  
 
 
$58,577,576  
 
Of the $58.6 million to be borne by future development, approximately $33.4 million would 
be allocated to residential growth and approximately $25.2 million to non-residential or 
commercial growth. The total allocated costs to residents and employees is then 
converted into a cost per trip by taking the total allocated cost from Table 48 and dividing 
it by the projected number of trips for each category (from Table 44). The following table 
shows based upon the major category, the total projected trips and the cost per trip:  
 
Table 49: Transportation Cost Per Trip Between Residential and Commercial 
 
Category 
Total Allocated Cost 
Projected Trips 
Cost Per Trip 
Residential 
$33,389,218  
5,303.50 
$6,296 
Commercial 
$25,188,358  
3,791.16 
$6,606 
 
The cost per trip is $6,296 for residential compared to $6,606 for commercial 
developments. The cost per trip is converted into the impact fee by multiplying it against 
the ITE established trip rate. The following table shows by land use type, the cost per trip, 
the trip rate, and the resulting impact fee:  
 
Table 50: Transportation Impact Fee Calculation  
 
Category 
Cost Per Trip 
Trip Rate Transportation Impact Fee (TIF) 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
$6,296 
0.99 
$6,233 per du 
Multi-Family 
$6,296 
0.50 
$3,148 per du 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per 1,000 square foot) 
 
Industrial 
$6,606 
0.63 
$4,161 per 1,000 sq. ft. 
Retail 
$6,606 
3.81 
$25,167 per 1,000 sq. ft.  
Office 
$6,606 
1.15 
$7,596 per 1,000 sq. ft.  
Hotel 
$6,606 
0.60 
$3,963 per room 
Institution 
$6,606 
0.49 
$3,237 per 1,000 sq. ft. 
 
As the ITE trip rates are based upon 1,000 sq. ft. for commercial / non-residential, the 
fees were calculated on a per 1,000 sq. ft. basis. The admin fee of 0.36% (Table 46) was 
then multiplied by the Transportation Impact Fee (Table 50) to determine the 
administrative fee component. The administrative fee component was then added to the 
baseline TIF (Table 50) to arrive at the full cost Transportation Impact Fee by category. 
For example, the 0.36% was multiplied by $6,233 to arrive at $22.44, the $22.44 was then 
added to the baseline TIF of $6,233 to calculate the full cost TIF of $6,255.  The following 
table shows by category, the TIF, the admin fee, and the resulting full cost TIF:  
480 of 734

--- page 481 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 39 
 
Table 51: Transportation Impact Fee Calculation Including Administrative Fee 
 
Category 
TIF 
Admin Fee 
Full Cost TIF 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
$6,233  
$22.44  
$6,255 per du 
Multi-Family 
$3,148 
$11.33  
$3,159 per du 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per 1,000 square foot) 
 
 
Industrial 
$4,161 
$14.98 
$4,176 per 1,000 sq. ft. 
Retail 
$25,167 
$90.60 $25,258 per 1,000 sq. ft.  
Office 
$7,596 
$27.35 
$7,624 per 1,000 sq. ft.  
Hotel 
$3,963 
$14.27 
$3,978 per room 
Institution 
$3,237 
$11.65 
$3,248 per 1,000 sq. ft. 
 
Incorporating the administrative fee enables the city to recover for the financial support 
and staff time associated with monitoring and reporting on the use of impact fee funds. 
To provide some context to the full cost TIF and how it compares to existing fees, the 
following table compares the City’s current Transportation Impact Fees to the full cost 
impact fees (converted to per sq. ft. for ease of application for commercial projects), and 
the associated surplus / (deficit) per unit:  
 
Table 52: Current vs. Full Cost Transportation Impact Fees 
 
Category 
Current Fee 
Full Cost Surplus / (Deficit) 
Residential (per dwelling unit) 
 
 
 
Single-Family 
$4,761 
$6,255 
($1,494) 
Multi-Family 
$2,922 
$3,159 
($237) 
Commercial / Non-Residential (per square foot) 
 
 
Industrial 
$2.85 
$4.18 
($1.33) 
Retail 
$8.19  
$25.26 
($17.07) 
Office 
$4.37 
$7.62 
($3.25) 
Hotel 
New 
$3,978 
N / A 
Institution 
New  
$3.25 
N / A 
 
The City is currently under-recovering for all transportation impact fee categories. The 
under-recovery ranges from a low of $1.33 per sq. ft. for industrial development to a high 
of $17.07 per square foot for retail development. The City currently does not charge a 
Transportation Impact Fee for hotel or institution commercial projects, as such there is no 
applicable deficit or surplus to be calculated.   
 
  4 
NEXUS CRITERIA 
 
As discussed in the legal framework chapter, in order for an impact fee to be implemented 
it must meet all five of the nexus criteria as established by AB1600. The following table 
481 of 734

--- page 482 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 40 
outlines each criterion point, and how the Transportation Impact Fee meets the AB1600 
criteria. 
 
  Table 53: Transportation Impact Fees Nexus Criteria 
 
Criteria 
Meet 
Don’t Meet 
Purpose of Fee 
 
The fee would be used to fund the development of new 
transportation improvement measures and improve existing 
transportation-related needs.    
 
Use of Fee Revenue 
 
The City has capital improvement plans and transportation 
specific plans that outline the utilization of this fee revenue for 
current and future years to help ensure that there is appropriate 
expansion and development of transportation-related measures 
to meet current and future resident and employee needs.  
 
Benefit Relationship 
 
The use of the impact fee revenue would be to enhance 
existing roadways or add new traffic measures, which would be 
directly proportional to the increased wear and tear and use of 
city infrastructure as there is new residential and commercial 
growth in the City. The increase in residential population is 
related to the number of dwelling units and the impact fee 
would be applicable to dwelling units. The increase in 
employment is related to non-residential space and is 
applicable to square footage.  
 
Impact Relationship 
 
Based upon the current transportation needs in the City, the 
addition of new residents and employees would require the 
need for upgraded use of roadways and facilities.  
 
Proportionality 
 
The proposed impact fee would be a flat fee per dwelling unit 
depending upon the density of the housing units to capture the 
residential impacts, as the primary mechanism for addition of 
residential population to the City is through increased dwelling 
units. For employees the fee is based upon non-residential 
square footage as that is the primary mechanism associated 
with increases in employment within the City.  
 
 
As the table demonstrates, the City is able to meet all five of the criteria necessary to 
charge the proposed Transportation Impact Fee.  
 
  5 
COMPARATIVE SURVEY 
 
As part of this impact fee analysis, the project team conducted a comparative survey of 
surrounding jurisdictions charging Transportation Impact Fees. It is important to note that 
the comparative survey only includes the fees noted on jurisdiction’s fee schedules and 
as such may not be reflective of recent updates or the full cost associated with those 
impact fees. Therefore, the comparative information should be viewed only as a way of 
482 of 734

--- page 483 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 41 
assessing the market for impact fees in the region and not a reflection of the full cost 
associated with impact fees. The following table compares the city’s current and proposed 
full cost to other surveyed jurisdictions in the region, which charge a Traffic Impact Fee:  
 
Table 54: Transportation Impact Fee Comparative Survey 
 
Fee Category / 
Jurisdiction 
San Mateo 
– Current 
San Mateo – 
Full Cost 
Redwood 
City 
Mountain 
View 
San 
Carlos 
SSF 
Residential (Per Dwelling unit) 
Single Family 
$4,761 
$6,255 
$1,617 
$4,922 
$6,134 
$6,721 
Multi-Family 
$2,922 
$3,159 
$992 
$2,756 
$3,470 
$3,873 
Commercial / Non-Residential (Per sq. ft.) 
 
 
 
 
Industrial 
$2.85 
$4.18 
$1.55 
$5.25 
$1.18 
$13.15 
Retail 
$8.19  
$25.26 
$15.3319 
$5.25 
$23.61 
$25.42 
Office 
$4.37 
$7.62 
$2.38 
$5.25 
$7.13 
$29.15 
Hotel – per room 
New 
$3,978 
$945 
$3,044 
$3,718 
$2,450 
Institution 
New  
$3.25 
$0.88 
 
 
 
 
As it relates to residential fees, the City’s current fees are higher than Redwood City, in 
alignment with Mountain View, but lower than all other neighboring jurisdictions. The 
City’s full cost Transportation Impact fees are in alignment with San Carlos and the City 
of South San Francisco. 
 
Similar to residential impact fees, the City’s non-residential fees are generally lower than 
surrounding jurisdictions, with the exception of Redwood City. The City’s full cost fees are 
generally in alignment with other jurisdictions as it relates to the cost per square foot for 
retail, office, and per hotel room.   
 
 
 
19 Average of General Retail, Supermarket, Convenience Store, Bank, High Turnover Restaurant, and Fast Food to capture the 
similar types of businesses that would be covered under this fee.  
483 of 734

--- page 484 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 42 
7. 
Public Art In-Lieu  
 
 
The City of San Mateo has been assessing a Public Art In-lieu fee since 2003. The 
primary purpose of this fee is to enable new development in the City to provide 
contribution to the City’s Public Art to enhance the cultural aspect of its residents. The fee 
is currently assessed as a percentage of the project valuation. The City has an extremely 
robust Art in Public Places Program with a Civic Arts Committee that reviews all public 
art applications, as well as an annual Public Art Program report.  
 
In-Lieu fees are different from impact fees in that the developer or applicant has the option 
to either improve or implement the infrastructure themselves or provide an off-setting cost 
to the City for that same impact. While these fees are different, there still needs to be a 
corresponding nexus between the fee being charged and the proposed impact upon the 
City. Therefore, the project team reviewed the City’s current Art in Public Places program 
to determine if the current fee of 0.5% of project valuation was sufficient to meet the City’s 
public art needs. The following subsections discuss the cost assumptions and 
components, in-lieu fee calculation, ability to meet the nexus criteria, and a comparative 
survey of public art in-lieu fees.  
 
  1 
COST ASSUMPTIONS AND COMPONENTS 
 
In order to determine the annual costs associated with public art, the project team 
reviewed the City’s Art in Public Places annual reports for the last several years. The 
following table shows the value of art projects by year commissioned by the City under 
this in-lieu program, as well as the resulting four year average: 
  
Table 55: Value of Public Art by Year 
 
Year 
Value of Public Art 
201620 
$1,259,333 
201710 
$1,259,333 
201810 
$1,259,333 
2019 
$2,420,853 
4 year Average 
$1,549,713 
 
In addition to the value of public art installed, the project team also discussed other types 
of costs that can be incorporated into the public art fee. Many impact and in-lieu fees are 
typically based upon a master plan. Therefore, the project team worked with the City’s 
Management Analyst to determine the cost associated with a Public Art Master Plan. The 
purpose of this document would be to more clearly define the types of public art projects 
the City needs, where the need for public art is within the City, and target timelines for 
achieving those goals. This type of master plan is critical for ensuring that there are clearly 
 
20 The value of public art for 2016-2018 totaled approximately $3,778,000. Therefore, it was annualized equally for each year.  
484 of 734

--- page 485 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 43 
defined goals, outcomes, and needs identified for Public Art in the City of San Mateo. 
These plans should be developed, reviewed, and updated frequently to ensure that public 
art in the City is meeting the evolving needs of the community and better able to represent 
current socio-cultural trends. This plan can also serve as a baseline for the Civic Arts 
Committee, allowing them to review public art projects in light of the needs outlined in the 
Art in Public Places Master Plan. The following table shows the annual estimated cost 
associated with the Art in Public Places Master Plan:  
 
Table 56: Art in Public Places Master Plan – Annual Cost 
 
Category 
Cost 
Total Art In Public Places Master Plan Cost 
$40,000 
# of Applicable Years 
5 
Annual Cost 
$8,000 
 
Combining the 4 year average annual cost of installed public art with the annual Art in 
Public Places Master Plan costs, results in the total costs associated with Public Art for 
the City. The following table shows this total cost:  
 
Table 57: Art in Public Places Master– Total Annual Cost 
 
Category 
Cost 
4 yr Avg Public Art Value 
$1,549,713 
Annual Public Art Master Plan 
$8,000 
Total Annual Cost 
$1,557,713 
 
The total annual cost for Public Art within the City is approximately $1.6 million. 
 
  2 
IN-LIEU FEE CALCULATION 
 
The Public Art In-Lieu Fee is calculated as a percentage of the project valuation. It is only 
applicable to certain projects – new development or major remodels and those projects 
that have a valuation of greater than $3 million. Therefore, in order to calculate the in-lieu 
fee, the project team reviewed the total applicable valuation. The following table shows 
the total valuation for applicable projects for FY19 and FY20 and the resulting 2 year 
average valuation:  
 
Table 58: Valuation Calculation 
 
Fiscal Year (FY) 
Valuation 
FY19 
$131,975,780 
FY20 
$130,823,399 
2 yr average 
$131,399,589 
 
485 of 734

--- page 486 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 44 
A 2 year average for valuation was utilized in order to help smooth any volatility in the 
development activity within the City. There might be a year with major activity, and it may 
drop off the following year or vice versa, but utilizing an average enables the City to 
ensure that appropriate levels of activity are being captured. As the in-lieu fee is based 
upon a percentage of the project valuation, the total cost of $1.6 million is divided by the 
2 year average valuation to calculate the updated Public Art In-Lieu Fee. The following 
table shows this calculation:  
 
Table 59: Art in Public Places In-Lieu Fee Calculation 
 
Category 
Valuation 
Total Art in Public Places Annual cost 
$1,557,713 
2 yr Applicable Project Valuation 
$131,399,589 
Art In Public Places In Lieu Fee 
1.19% 
 
The full cost for the Public Art In-Lieu fee is approximately 1.19% of the project valuation. 
The following table compares the City’s current Public Art In-Lieu Fees to the full cost 
impact fees, and the associated surplus / (deficit) per unit:  
 
Table 60: Art in Public Places In-Lieu Current Fee vs. Full Cost 
 
Category 
Current Fee 
Full Cost 
Surplus / (Deficit) 
Art in Public Places – In-Lieu Fee 
0.50% 
1.19% 
(0.69%) 
 
The City is currently under-recovering its Art in Public Places fee by approximately 0.69% 
of the project valuation for projects valued at more than $3 million.  
 
  4 
NEXUS CRITERIA 
 
In-lieu fees are not subject to the same stringent nexus criteria as impact fees. However, 
there must be a proportionality and basis for the calculation of the in-lieu fee. The City’s 
Public Art program is managed by the Civic Arts Committee, which ensures that any 
developments exceeding the minimum valuation threshold within the City is able to either 
install their own public art or provide the City with the appropriate funds to install public 
art. There is strict criteria that must be met, and any art installed through this process 
must be approved by the Civic Arts Committee to ensure it meets the city’s intent for 
public art.  
 
  5 
COMPARATIVE SURVEY 
 
As part of this impact fee analysis, the project team conducted a comparative survey of 
surrounding jurisdictions. It is important to note that the comparative survey only includes 
the fees noted on jurisdiction’s fee schedules and as such may not be reflective of recent 
486 of 734

--- page 487 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 45 
updates or the full cost associated with those impact fees. Therefore, the comparative 
information should be viewed only as a way of assessing the market for impact fees in 
the region and not a reflection of the full cost associated with impact fees. The following 
table compares the city’s current fee and proposed full cost fee for Public Art In-Lieu to 
other surveyed jurisdictions in the region, which charge a Public Art In-Lieu fee:  
 
Table 61: Public Art In-lieu Fee Comparative Survey 
 
Jurisdiction / Fee Amount 
Fee Amount 
San Mateo - Current 
0.5% of Valuation 
San Mateo – Full Cost 
1.19% of Valuation 
Redwood City 
1% of Valuation 
San Bruno  
5% of Bldg Permit Fee (Residential), 
7% of Bldg permit fee Commercial 
South San Francisco 
1% of Valuation 
 
As the table shows, several surveyed jurisdictions charge a public art in-lieu fee. 
Redwood City and South San Francisco both charge it as 1% of the project valuation, 
whereas San Bruno charges it as a percentage of the building permit fee. The City’s 
current fee is lower than those of the comparable jurisdictions.  
 
 
487 of 734

--- page 488 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 46 
8. 
Tree Replacement / Landscape In-Lieu Fees  
 
 
The City of San Mateo currently assesses two different types of tree replacement fees – 
Tree Replacement and Landscape In-Lieu Fee. Even though the second fee is called a 
Landscape In-Lieu Fee it is based upon landscape units, which within the municipal code 
are identified as trees. The City has updated these fees annually based upon increases 
to tree replacement costs. The following subsections discuss each of these tree 
replacement fees.  
 
  1 
TREE REPLACEMENT FEE  
 
The Tree Replacement Fee codified in the Municipal Code, Chapter 13.35 and Chapter 
13.52 are in relation to replacing street trees or heritage trees based upon one 24” box 
size tree. The purpose of this code is to ensure that for any tree being removed there is 
either a tree that is replaced by the applicant or the developer or a fee paid to the City to 
ensure that the City can replace that tree. 
 
The project team worked with the City’s Parks and Recreation Department and the 
Arborist to determine the cost associated with replacing one 24” box size tree. This cost 
includes the materials associated with the tree, as well as the labor associated with 
installing the tree. The following table breaks down the full cost associated with Tree 
Replacement or Tree In-Lieu Fee based upon the labor and material costs provided by 
the City Arborist:  
 
Table 62: Tree Replacement Calculation 
 
Category 
Cost 
Labor 
$595 
Material (Tree) 
$145 
Total Replacement 
$740 
 
The full cost associated with Tree Replacement of a 24” box size tree is $740. The 
following table compares the City’s current fee to the full cost fee calculated:  
 
Table 63: Current vs. Full Cost Tree Replacement Fees 
 
Category 
Current 
Fee 
Full Cost Fee 
Surplus / 
(Deficit) Per Unit 
Tree Replacement  
$475 
$740 
($265) 
 
As the table indicates, the City has a deficit of approximately $265 per tree being replaced 
at its current fee.  
 
488 of 734

--- page 489 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 47 
As part of this in-lieu and impact fee analysis, the project team conducted a comparative 
survey of surrounding jurisdictions. The following table compares the city’s current fee 
and proposed full cost fee for Tree Replacement to other surveyed jurisdictions in the 
region, which charge a Tree Replacement fee:  
 
Table 64: Tree Replacement Fee Comparative Survey 
 
Jurisdiction / Fee Amount 
Fee Amount 
San Mateo - Current 
$475 
San Mateo – Full Cost 
$740 
Mountain View 
$750 
San Bruno  
$415 
Santa Clara 
$588 
South San Francisco 
$350 
 
The City’s current fee is in line with the surrounding jurisdictions but lower than Mountain 
View and Santa Clara. The City’s full cost fee would be lower than Mountain View, but 
higher than all other comparable jurisdictions.  
 
  2 
LANDSCAPE IN-LIEU FEE   
 
The Landscape In-Lieu Fee is codified in the Municipal Code in Chapter 27.71.150 in 
relation to preservation of trees. The language in this section specifies that existing trees 
shall be replaced with new trees to equal the total removed landscape unit value. A 
Heritage Tree has a landscape unit value of 2 so its replacement tree size is 24” box size 
tree. For a regular tree, the landscape unit value of 1, per the code represents a 15 gallon 
tree.  
 
Similar to the 24” box size tree, the project team collected information from the City’s 
Arborist regarding the labor and material costs associated with replacing a 15 gallon tree. 
The following table breaks down the full cost associated with Tree Replacement or Tree 
In-Lieu Fee based upon the labor and material costs provided by the City Arborist:  
 
Table 65: Tree Replacement Calculation – Landscape Unit (15 gallon) 
 
Category 
Cost 
Labor 
$393 
Material (Tree) 
$90 
Total Replacement 
$483 
 
The project team calculated the full cost associated with Tree Replacement of a 15 gallon 
tree to be $483. The following table compares the City’s current fee to the full cost fee 
calculated:  
 
 
489 of 734

--- page 490 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 48 
Table 66: Current vs. Full Cost Landscape In-Lieu Fees 
 
Category 
Current 
Fee 
Full Cost Fee 
Surplus / 
(Deficit) Per Unit 
Tree Replacement  
$321 
$483 
($162) 
 
As the table indicates, the City has a deficit of approximately $162 per tree being replaced 
at its current fee for the landscape unit-in lieu fee.  
 
The landscape unit in-lieu fee is not assessed on all development projects and per the 
City code is only assessed if the developer or applicant is unable to meet City landscaping 
requirements. Only in that situation does the developer need to pay the city to offset its 
impact on the City’s landscaping requirements. 
 
Similar to the other in-lieu fees evaluated in this nexus analysis, this fee is not subject to 
the State Mitigation Fee Act. However, in the event that there are any changes in the 
future, the analysis in the report demonstrates that the cost for tree replacement for 
landscape in-lieu services is directly correlated to the tree as a landscape unit.  
 
 
 
490 of 734

--- page 491 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 49 
9. 
Parking In-Lieu Fee  
 
 
The City of San Mateo currently charges a Parking In-Lieu Impact Fee in the Central 
Parking Improvement District. The City’s municipal code Section 27.64.100 provides the 
City with the legal authority to impose a parking in-lieu fee. The purpose of this fee is that 
any development in this district of the City has to put in the requisite number of parking 
spaces, and if they are unable to put in those spaces a fee can be paid to the City to help 
offset the impact of the loss of parking. The City has the ability to then utilize these funds 
to construct parking garages or lots to help accommodate the need for additional parking.   
 
The Public Works Department conducted an internal analysis to ensure that the City’s 
current Parking In-Lieu Fee meets the established criteria. The most common 
methodology to evaluate the cost is to look at the construction costs associated with 
parking garages and parking lots. The City has not had any recent parking-related 
construction projects, as such it relied upon other recent calculations conducted in the 
larger Bay Area Region. The following table shows the total construction cost, the number 
of stalls or spaces, the cost per stall per space, and the average across the jurisdictions:    
 
Table 67: Cost Per Space Calculation 
 
Category 
Palo Alto 
SSF21 
Berkeley 
Average 
Total Construction Cost 
$50,431,552 
$31,085,000 
$18,600,000 
$33,372,184 
# of Stalls / Spaces 
475 
389 
462 
442 
Cost Per Stall / Space 
$106,171 
$79,910 
$40,260 
$75,503 
 
As the table indicates, the average cost per stall or space in the region varies from 
$40,000 to $106,000, with the average being $75,500. The $75,500 represents the full 
cost associated with replacing or installing a parking space within the City or the maximum 
fee. The City’s current fee adopted in March 2020 of $50,000, is within the range of the 
parking cost per space in the region and below the maximum fee of $75,500 that could 
be charged utilizing the average.  
 
As part of this analysis, the project team compared the City’s current Parking In-Lieu cost 
to fees charged by other jurisdictions. The following table shows this comparison:  
 
Table 68: Parking In-Lieu Fee Comparative Survey 
 
Jurisdiction 
Fee Amount – Per Space 
San Mateo 
$50,000 
Mountain View22 
$53,934 
Palo Alto 
$106,171 
San Bruno 
$60,000 
 
21 This represents the average construction costs for several different parking construction options for a Parking study conducted for 
the City of South San Francisco.  
22 There is also a fee of $27,467 per space for Change of Use.  
491 of 734

--- page 492 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 50 
Jurisdiction 
Fee Amount – Per Space 
Redwood City 
$25,000 
Jurisdictional Average 
$61,276 
 
Based upon the results of the comparative survey, San Mateo’s current fee of $50,000 is 
less than the jurisdictional average of $61,276. It is important to note that all of the 
jurisdictions surveyed only charge this fee within their downtown or central parking district 
similar to San Mateo and this is not a citywide fee.  
 
The Parking In-Lieu Fee is an in-lieu fee and as such is not subject to the State Mitigation 
Fee Act. However, in an abundance of caution in the event that the law changes in the 
future, the City has analyzed the proposed fee for conformance with the Act and found 
that the fee is able to meet the basic requirements. The Parking In-Lieu fee is set 
proportionally based upon a per parking spot and is directly correlated to the need for 
providing additional parking spots and is only assessed if the developer or applicant is 
unable to meet those requirements as part of the development requirement. The City has 
a detailed ordinance, which outlines when and how this fee can be applied, including the 
fact that it is only applicable in the City’s Central Parking Improvement District region.  
 
 
492 of 734

--- page 493 ---
DRAFT Development Impact Fee and In-Lieu Fee Study 
SAN MATEO, CA 
 
Matrix Consulting Group 
 
Page 51 
Appendix A: Transportation Improvement Project Listing 
 
Program 
Projects 
Total Project Cost 
Freeway & Interchange 
Improvements 
SR 92/SR 82 Interchange Project Landscaping 
$2,322,906 
SR 92 Auxiliary Lanes Project 
$157,144,575 
US 101/Peninsula Avenue Interchange 
$147,000,000 
Major Street Improvement 
3rd/4th Avenue Widening 
 $1,660,000.00  
Intersection Improvements 
El Camino Real/Crystal Springs SB Right-Turn Lane 
$348,436 
El Camino Real/20th Avenue SB Right-Turn Lane 
$348,436 
Bicycle & Pedestrian 
Improvements 
Bike Master Plan Improvements 
 $33,700,000.00  
Complete Streets Plan  
 $370,000.00  
Traffic Models 
Model Maintenance & Updates 
$348,436 
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 
$342,872,788 
 
493 of 734

--- page 494 ---
Wastewater Capacity 
 Charge Update 
 
April 2021 
City of San Mateo 
494 of 734

--- page 495 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
 
 
 
 
 
April 30, 2021 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403‐7300 
 
 
Re: 
Wastewater Capacity Charge Update  
 
Bartle Wells Associates is pleased to submit the attached Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
to the City of San Mateo.  The study develops updated capacity charges designed to equitably 
recover the costs of wastewater system infrastructure benefitting new development.   
 
Key objectives of the study included developing new wastewater capacity charges that recover 
the costs of capacity in wastewater system infrastructure, are fair and equitable to both existing 
customers and new connections, are based on industry‐standard methodology, and comply with 
all legal requirements.  The study recommends a set of charges that would apply uniformly to the 
City’s  service  area.    The  recommended  charges  incorporate  some  modifications  to  the  fee 
structure designed to improve equity and fee administration. 
 
I  enjoyed  working  with  the  City  on  this  assignment  and  appreciate  the  ongoing  input  and 
assistance  received  from  the  City’s  project  team.    Please  contact  me  anytime  if  you  have 
questions about the recommendations presented in this report or other related issues. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
 
 
 
Alex Handlers 
Principal/Vice‐President 
 
 
2625 Alcatraz Ave, #602 
Berkeley, CA 94705 
Tel 510 653 3399  
www.bartlewells.com 
495 of 734

--- page 496 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
 
Table of Contents 
 
1. 
Background, Objectives, & Updated Charges ............................................................... 1 
Background ...................................................................................................................... 1 
Objectives ........................................................................................................................ 1 
Government Code ............................................................................................................ 2 
Updated Wastewater Capacity Charges ........................................................................... 2 
Survey of Regional Wastewater Capacity Charges ........................................................... 6 
2. 
Wastewater Capacity Charge Derivation ...................................................................... 8 
Current Wastewater Capacity Charges ............................................................................ 8 
Capacity Charge Methodology ......................................................................................... 9 
Wastewater System Overview ....................................................................................... 10 
Wastewater System Infrastructure Value ...................................................................... 10 
Wastewater Capital Improvement Program .................................................................. 14 
Adjustments for Prior Sewer Debt Obligations .............................................................. 15 
Wastewater System Cost Recovery ................................................................................ 15 
Wastewater System Capacity ......................................................................................... 18 
Wastewater Capacity Charges per Unit ......................................................................... 19 
Wastewater Flow Assumptions ...................................................................................... 20 
Accessory Dwelling Units ............................................................................................... 20 
Wastewater Customer Classes & Strength Assumptions ............................................... 22 
Updated Wastewater Capacity Charges ......................................................................... 23 
3. 
Application of Charges & Related Issues .................................................................... 26 
Capacity Charge Ordinance:  Purpose of Charge ............................................................ 26 
Use of Capacity Charge Revenues .................................................................................. 26 
Capacity Charges for Redevelopment Projects .............................................................. 26 
Changes in Property Use & Customer Class ................................................................... 26 
Future Fee Adjustments ................................................................................................. 27 
 
Appendices 
Appendix A –Clean Water Program Cost Allocation 
Appendix B – Capacity Charge Calculations 
Appendix C – Government Code Pertaining to Water & Wastewater Capacity Charges 
 
 
496 of 734

--- page 497 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
1 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
1. Background, Objectives, & Updated Charges 
Background 
The City of San Mateo provides wastewater collection and treatment services to approximately 
30,000 residential and commercial accounts located in and adjacent to the City.  The City owns 
and operates a wastewater collection system and operates a regional wastewater treatment 
plant that is jointly owned with Foster City.  The City also provides wastewater conveyance and 
treatment to portions of Hillsborough and unincorporated San Mateo County.  The City is located 
roughly 20 miles south of San Francisco and has a population of roughly 103,000.   
 
The City levies various wastewater connection and development impact fees on new or expanded 
connections to the wastewater system.  This report refers to the City’s wastewater development 
impact fees as “capacity charges” in line with California Government Code.  Capacity charges are 
one‐time  charges,  paid  up‐front  as  a  condition  of  new  development  or  redevelopment  that 
generates increased demands on the City’s wastewater system.  The charges are designed to 
recover the cost of capacity in infrastructure benefitting new development to help ensure that 
new development pays its own way.  The City’s wastewater capacity charges have not been 
independently reviewed or updated in many years.   
 
Objectives 
Bartle Wells Associates (BWA) was retained to update the City’s wastewater capacity charges as 
one  component  of  a  more  comprehensive  review  and  update  of  a  number  of  the  City’s 
development  impact  fees.    Key  objectives  of  this  study  are  to  develop  updated  wastewater 
capacity charges that: 
 Recover the costs of wastewater system infrastructure and assets that benefit new or 
expanded development; 
 Equitably recover costs based on the new or increased wastewater system demands 
generated by new development or redevelopment; 
 Are consistent with industry‐standard practices and methodologies; 
 Comply with government code. 
 
 
497 of 734

--- page 498 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
2 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Government Code 
Development impact fees are governed by California Government Code Section 66000 et. seq 
This section of the Code was initially established by Assembly Bill 1600 and is commonly referred 
to as the Mitigation Fee Act.  Pursuant to the Code, a development impact fee is not a tax or 
special assessment, but is, instead, a voluntary charge levied to defray the cost of public facilities 
needed to serve new development. 
 
Section 66013 of the Code specifically governs water and wastewater capacity charges.  This 
section of the Code defines a “capacity charge” to mean “a charge for public facilities in existence 
at the time a charge is imposed or charges for new public facilities to be acquired or constructed 
in the future that are of proportional benefit to the person or property being charged.”  The Code 
distinguishes  “capacity  charges”  from  “connection  fees”  which  are  defined  as  fees  for  the 
physical  facilities  necessary  to  make  a  water  or  sewer  connection,  such  as  costs  related  to 
installation of meters and pipelines from a new building to a water or sewer main.   
 
A key provision of Section 66013 states that water or wastewater capacity charges “shall not 
exceed the estimated reasonable cost of providing the service for which the fee or charge is 
imposed” unless approved by a two‐thirds vote.  As such, the capacity charges calculated in this 
report represent the maximum charges that the City can levy.  Section 66013 does not detail any 
specific methodology for calculating capacity fees.  
 
Section 66016 of the Code identifies the procedural requirements for adopting or increasing 
water and wastewater capacity charges.  Section 66022 details the general parameters under 
which the charges can be legally challenged.  Section 66023 describes an agency’s responsibilities 
if a customer requests an audit of their charge.  The full text of Sections 66013, 66016, 66022 and 
66023 are attached in Appendix B. 
 
Updated Wastewater Capacity Charges 
This report develops updated wastewater capacity charges designed to equitably recover the 
costs of facilities benefitting new development.  The recommended charges are based on an 
average  cost  approach  under  which  new  or  expanded  connections  would  fund  their 
proportionate share of costs (in current dollars) for capacity needed in existing and planned 
wastewater  system  infrastructure.    Under  this  approach,  new  connections  pay  for  their 
proportionate share of the average cost of facilities needed to meet the demands of the City’s 
service area through projected build‐out.  
 
498 of 734

--- page 499 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
3 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
This report develops updated capacity charges under two scenarios as described below.   
 A recommended fee alternative which accounts for a cost recovery factor of 80% of the 
estimated maximum value of infrastructure benefitting new development.  By only including 
80%  of  the  estimated  maximum  recoverable  costs  of  infrastructure,  this  fee  calculation 
recognizes that the sources of data used to calculate the updated charges are themselves 
estimates and provides additional assurance that the updated charges do not exceed the 
estimated reasonable cost of providing wastewater capacity to new development as required 
under California Government Code. 
 A maximum fee alternative which accounts for full cost recovery of the estimated value of 
infrastructure benefitting new development.   
 
Tables showing updated wastewater capacity charges under both alternatives are shown on the 
following  pages.    BWA  believes  that  both  of  these  approaches  represent  reasonable  and 
defensible calculations for facility cost recovery and balance the goals of a) recovering the cost 
of  facilities  benefitting  new  development  and  b)  ensuring  that  the  fees  do  not  exceed  the 
estimated reasonable cost of facilities benefitting growth. 
 
The  charges  for  each  customer  class  are  based  on  underlying  unit  charges  developed  for 
wastewater flow and wastewater strength loadings for Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and 
Suspended  Solids  (SS).    The  unit  charges  are  applied  to  the  wastewater  flow  and  strength 
characteristics of each type of connection resulting in charges that reflect the proportional cost 
of capacity in wastewater system infrastructure benefitting each new or expanded connection.  
Both  of  the  fee  scenarios  account  for  a  significant  reduction  in  the  estimated  wastewater 
discharge from residential dwelling units compared to the City’s historical engineering design 
assumptions based on evaluation of water use from the lowest‐use winter months during recent 
years. 
499 of 734

--- page 500 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
4 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Wastewater Capacity Charges with 80% Cost Recovery 
 
 
 
 
RESIDENTIAL 
Capacity Charge per residential dwelling unit
Class A
Wastewater Strength
All Residential
  BOD (mg/l)
200
  SS (mg/l)
200
Type of Dwelling Unit
Flow (gpd)
1. Single‐family dwelling
150
$10,019 per dwelling unit
2. Multi‐family dwelling
a. Studio & 1 bedroom
75
5,009
           
per dwelling unit
b. 2 bedroom
125
8,349
           
per dwelling unit
c. 3+ bedroom
150
10,019
        
per dwelling unit
3. Hotels or motels
75
5,009
              
per room/apartment
4. Board or lodging houses
75
5,009
              
per bedroom
5. Accessory Dwelling Unit
0.075
5.01
                
per square foot
    (based on square footage)
COMMERCIAL/INSTITUTIONAL
Class B
Class C
Class D
Capacity Charge based on water meter size and Wastewater Class
Standard
Moderate
High
Wastewater Strength
Strength
Strength
Strength
  BOD (mg/l)
200
400
800
  SS (mg/l)
200
400
600
Meter Size
Ratio
Flow (gpd)
  Up to 3/4‐inch
1.00
150
$10,019
$10,732
$11,820
  1‐inch
1.67
250
16,698
17,886
19,700
  1‐1/2‐inch
3.33
500
33,396
35,773
39,400
  2‐inch
5.33
800
53,433
57,236
63,040
  3‐inch
10.00
1,500
100,187
107,318
118,199
  4‐inch
16.67
2,500
166,978
178,863
196,999
  6‐inch
33.33
5,000
333,956
357,727
393,998
  8‐inch
53.33
8,000
534,329
572,363
630,397
INDUSTRIAL
Capacity Charge based on estimated wastewater flow and strength
  Flow
$77.55 per gpd
  BOD
1,873.52
     
per lb/day
  SS
1,689.32
     
per lb/day
Wastewater Capacity Charges
Wastewater Capacity Charges
500 of 734

--- page 501 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
5 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Wastewater Capacity Charges with Maximum Cost Recovery 
 
 
 
RESIDENTIAL 
Capacity Charge per residential dwelling unit
Class A
Wastewater Strength
All Residential
  BOD (mg/l)
200
  SS (mg/l)
200
Type of Dwelling Unit
Flow (gpd)
1. Single‐family dwelling
150
$12,523 per dwelling unit
2. Multi‐family dwelling
a. Studio & 1 bedroom
75
6,262
           
per dwelling unit
b. 2 bedroom
125
10,436
        
per dwelling unit
c. 3+ bedroom
150
12,523
        
per dwelling unit
3. Hotels or motels
75
6,262
              
per room/apartment
4. Board or lodging houses
75
6,262
              
per bedroom
5. Accessory Dwelling Unit
0.075
6.26
                
per square foot
    (based on square footage)
COMMERCIAL/INSTITUTIONAL
Class B
Class C
Class D
Capacity Charge based on water meter size and Wastewater Class
Standard
Moderate
High
Wastewater Strength
Strength
Strength
Strength
  BOD (mg/l)
200
400
800
  SS (mg/l)
200
400
600
Meter Size
Ratio
Flow (gpd)
  Up to 3/4‐inch
1.00
150
$12,523
$13,415
$14,775
  1‐inch
1.67
250
20,872
22,358
24,625
  1‐1/2‐inch
3.33
500
41,744
44,716
49,250
  2‐inch
5.33
800
66,791
71,545
78,800
  3‐inch
10.00
1,500
125,233
134,148
147,749
  4‐inch
16.67
2,500
208,722
223,579
246,249
  6‐inch
33.33
5,000
417,444
447,159
492,498
  8‐inch
53.33
8,000
667,911
715,454
787,997
INDUSTRIAL
Capacity Charge based on estimated wastewater flow and strength
  Flow
$77.55 per gpd
  BOD
1,873.52
     
per lb/day
  SS
1,689.32
     
per lb/day
Wastewater Capacity Charges
Wastewater Capacity Charges
501 of 734

--- page 502 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
6 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Survey of Regional Wastewater Capacity Charges 
The following chart shows a comparison of regional wastewater capacity charges for a typical 
new single family home.  San Mateo’s current wastewater capacity charges vary depending on 
whether new development is located in an area served by the City’s South Trunk Line, in which 
case the City’s levies a separate charge to recover costs for that trunk line.  The following chart 
compares the City current wastewater capacity charges to other regional agencies surveyed.  The 
City’s current charges are either very low or in the middle range depending on whether the South 
Trunk Fee applies. 
 
 
 
 
502 of 734

--- page 503 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
7 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
The following chart shows a comparison of regional wastewater capacity charges for a typical 
new single family home but incorporates the updated capacity charges calculated in this report 
under both a) the 80% recovery scenario, and b) a full cost or maximum cost recovery scenario.  
Unlike  the  City’s  existing  fees,  the  updated  charges  are  proposed  to  be  uniformly  applied 
citywide.  As shown on the chart, the updated capacity charges are in the middle to upper middle 
range compared to the current charges of other regional agencies surveyed. 
 
 
503 of 734

--- page 504 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
8 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
2. Wastewater Capacity Charge Derivation 
Current Wastewater Capacity Charges 
Table 1 shows a schedule of the City’s current wastewater capacity charges which are levied on 
new or expanded connections to the wastewater system.  Current charges include a) Sewer 
Connection Charges, b) Wastewater Treatment Plant Phase II Expansion Fees, and c) South Trunk 
Area Sewer Improvement Fees which are only levied on new development located in an area 
served by the City’s South Trunk Line.   
 
Table 1 – Current Wastewater Connection & Impact Fees 
 
 
 
SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES
A. Residential
1. Single‐family dwelling
$2,650 per connection
2. Multi‐family dwelling
a. Studio & 1 bedroom
1,325 per dwelling unit
b. 2 bedroom
1,991 per dwelling unit
c. 3 bedroom
2,650 per dwelling unit
3. Hotels or motels
1,325 per room/apt
4. Board or lodging houses
1,325 per bedroom
B. Non‐Residential
1. Churches
2,650 per connection
2. Golf courses
2,650 per connection
3. Hospitals
130 per fixture unit
4. Lodges and clubs
130 per fixture unit
5. Rest, residential care & convelescent homes
130 per fixture unit
6. Schools
130 per fixture unit
C. Commercial and Industrial
130 per fixture unit
WASTEWATER DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
WWTP PHASE II EXPANSION FEE
$2.34 Gallon/ADF
SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Single‐family dwelling 
$5,009 per dwelling unit
2. Multi‐family dwelling, 1 bedroom
2,504 per dwelling unit
3. Multi‐family dwelling, 2 bedroom 
3,756 per dwelling unit
4. Multi‐family dwelling, 3 bedroom 
5,009 per dwelling unit
5. Hotels or motels
2,504 per room
6. Non‐residential 
250 per fixture unit
Developer Impact Fees pay for the increase of 1.5 Million Gallons a Day of treatment capacity for biological 
demand and solids in the Wastewater Treatment Plant. This increase is needed to accommodate the loading 
from future development and connections.
504 of 734

--- page 505 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
9 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Capacity Charge Methodology 
BWA recommends the City transition to a single set of wastewater capacity charges that would 
be  applied  uniformly  throughout  the  City.    An  average  cost  approach  is  recommended  for 
calculation of updated wastewater capacity charges.  Under this approach, new connections buy 
in  for  a  proportionate  share  of  capacity  needs  in  existing  and  planned  wastewater  system 
facilities.  The fees are calculated based on a) the total value of the City’s wastewater facilities, 
including existing infrastructure and planned upgrades and expansions, divided by b) the total 
capacity  the  City  is  projected  to  serve  through  projected  build‐out.    Hence,  the  charges  are 
calculated by determining the average cost of capacity in current and future wastewater system 
infrastructure and then proportionately assigning those costs to new connections based on their 
system capacity needs.  The average cost approach is a widely used and accepted approach for 
calculating capacity fees, particularly for service areas that are largely built out. 
 
The  general  methodology  used  to  calculate  updated  water  and  wastewater  capacity  fees  is 
summarized below.  
Capacity Charge Methodology 
  
 
Step 1 ‐ Determine Cost of Facilities & Assets for Fee Recovery 
Determine the recoverable cost of facilities and assets benefiting new  
development to be recovered by the capacity charge. 
Step 2 ‐ Identify Capacity of Facilities 
Identify the corresponding capacity of facilities and assets identified in Step 1; 
capacity may be limited by the amount of total customer demand the City 
reasonably anticipates its facilities will serve through buildout. 
Step 3 ‐ Calculate Costs per Unit of Capacity 
Calculate the cost per unit of capacity by dividing the costs identified for fee recovery 
in Step 1 by the capacity of those facilities identified in Step 2. 
Step 4 ‐ Apply Costs per Unit to the Capacity Needs of New 
Apply the unit costs for capacity to the wastewater demands of each new type of 
development to determine an equitable capacity charge per new connection. 
505 of 734

--- page 506 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
10 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Wastewater System Overview 
The City’s wastewater system includes a regional wastewater treatment plant jointly owned with 
Foster City, over 240 miles of sanitary sewer collection system pipelines, 26 lift stations, and an 
outfall pipeline which discharges treated effluent 3,700 feet offshore into the San Francisco Bay.  
The wastewater treatment plant has an average dry weather flow capacity of 15.7 million gallons 
per day (mgd) of which 75% is owned by San Mateo.  
 
Wastewater System Infrastructure Value 
Under the methodology used in this report, updated wastewater capacity charges are designed 
to recover: 
 The remaining value of existing wastewater system infrastructure (in current dollars). 
 Clean Water Program capital improvements identified as upgrades and expansions to the 
wastewater system needed to meet future demands through buildout. 
At the same time, the updated charges exclude a number of costs which are backed out of the 
fee calculation to ensure the updated charges are reasonable and equitable, including: 
 Outstanding  principal  on  debt  previously  issued  to  help  finance  some  of  the  City’s 
wastewater facilities. 
 Clean Water Program capital improvements identified as repairs and replacements of 
existing  facilities  in  order  to  ensure  no  double  counting  of  an  existing  asset  and  its 
replacement. 
 Clean Water Program capital improvements that the City anticipates will be financed with 
long‐term debt.  This ensures that new connections will not have to pay for facilities both 
through  the  updated  capacity  charge  and  also  via  sewer  service  charges  once  they 
become ongoing customers.   
 
Existing wastewater system facilities identified for cost recovery include the City’s a) wastewater 
treatment plant, b) sewer collection system pipelines, and c) wastewater lift stations.  Table 2 
shows  a  list  of  existing  wastewater  treatment  plant  infrastructure  with  estimates  of  the 
replacement cost based on the acquisition cost of each asset escalated into current dollars based 
on the change in the Engineering News‐Record Construction Cost Index, a widely used measure 
of construction cost inflation.  Based on input from City staff, the table excludes assets that will 
not remain in service with completion of the Clean Water Program’s treatment plant upgrades 
in order to exclude facilities that will no longer provide service capacity to City customers. 
506 of 734

--- page 507 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
11 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Table 2 –Existing Wastewater Treatment Plant Value 
 
 
 
Asset
Asset
Acquisition
Acquisition
Acquisition
ENR CCI
ENR‐Adjusted
Asset #
Description
Type
Date
Cost Basis
Year
Acquis Yr
Cost Basis1
%
$
BUILDINGS
0065832
WWTP CONTROL BUILDING (Admin)
building
06/30/78
             141,541 
1978
2776
592,777
25%
148,194
0065845
WWTP WORKSHOP BUILDING
building
06/30/81
               28,055 
1981
3535
92,268
0%
0
0065858
WWTP UTILITY BUILDING (Civilization)
building
06/30/50
               31,193 
1950
510
711,075
100%
711,075
0065988
SLUDGE THICKNER #1
building
06/30/81
             940,238 
1981
3535
3,092,266
100%
3,092,266
0066001
SLUDGE THICKNER #2
building
06/30/78
               80,000 
1978
2776
335,042
100%
335,042
0066066
AERATOR TANK (5)
building
06/30/81
          2,063,093 
1981
3535
6,785,125
100%
6,785,125
0066079
SECOND CLARIFIER (4) + (1)
building
06/30/78
               23,149 
1978
2776
96,949
100%
96,949
0066469
WWTP SOLID HANDLING BUILDING
building
06/30/81
          9,712,462 
1981
3535
31,942,460
100%
31,942,460
0066937
EFFLUENT PUMPING PLANT
building
06/30/81
             445,240 
1981
3535
1,464,311
100%
1,464,311
0067158
PRIMARY CLARIFIER #1
building
01/01/45
             287,668 
1945
450
7,432,031
50%
3,716,015
0067301
PRIMARY CLARIFIER #2
building
01/01/50
             288,389 
1950
510
6,574,110
50%
3,287,055
0067639
PRIMARY CLARIFIER #4
building
01/01/79
          1,127,362 
1979
3003
4,364,520
50%
2,182,260
0067834
WWTP MAIN STRUCTURE (Control Room)
building
06/30/81
          5,064,609 
1981
3535
16,656,546
100%
16,656,546
0068237
WWTP PUMP HOUSE UNIT 2 (Round House)
building
06/30/81
             367,983 
1981
3535
1,210,227
100%
1,210,227
0070572
SLUDGE HANDLING TANK
building
06/30/81
             402,407 
1981
3535
1,323,441
50%
661,720
0079614
WWTP PLANT EXPANSION
building
03/31/97
          8,285,208 
1997
5825
16,535,972
100%
16,535,972
0080495
WWTP PRIMARY CLARIFIER (#3)
building
01/01/63
               99,526 
1963
901
1,284,222
50%
642,111
0080498
WWTP DALE AVE PUMP STATION
building
01/01/63
          6,886,610 
1963
901
88,860,581
100%
88,860,581
0080500
WWTP EFFLUENT PUMP STATION ELECT
building
07/01/99
             101,975 
1999
6060
195,652
100%
195,652
0081258
WWTP MARINA LAGOON N. STRUCTURE
building
06/30/01
          2,305,000 
2001
6342
4,225,396
100%
4,225,396
0081819
PROJ#467836 WWTP PHASE II EXPANSION CAP 
building
06/30/02
        33,328,952 
2002
6538
59,265,941
100%
59,265,941
SUBTOTAL
     73,315,660 
 253,040,912 
96%
    242,014,899 
OTHER IMPROVEMENTS
0078406
WWTP EXPANSION IMPROVEMENT
improvment
07/01/95
        21,643,906 
1995
5471
45,992,196
100%
45,992,196
0080494
WWTP GRRT REMOVAL SYSTEM
improvment
07/01/99
               50,000 
1999
6060
95,932
100%
95,932
0080499
WWTP LAB RENOVATION
improvment
07/01/99
             111,338 
1999
6060
213,617
100%
213,617
0081255
WWTP ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION REHAB
improvment
06/30/01
               74,565 
2001
6342
136,688
0%
0
0101599
PROJ#467634 WWTP ROOFING & DUCT WORK
improvment
07/01/04
             281,164 
2004
7115
459,418
100%
459,418
0105824
PROJ#467535 WWTP ODOR BEDS
improvment
06/30/10
             538,032 
2010
8799
710,899
50%
355,449
0106146
PROJ #469927 WWTP ROOF REPLACE 
improvment
06/30/12
             156,458 
2012
9308
195,416
100%
195,416
0109796
PROJ#469976 SOLIDS BLDG:IMMED.PROJECTS: 
improvment
06/30/19
             368,301 
2019
11268
379,985
100%
379,985
SUBTOTAL
     42,704,627 
   48,184,150 
99%
      47,692,012 
INFRASTRUCTURE
0081254
HYPOCHLORITE FACILITY MODIFICATIONS
infrastruc
06/30/01
               86,716 
2001
6342
158,963
0%
0
0081257
WWTP‐OUTFALL RELOCATION FOSTER CITY
infrastruc
06/30/01
               75,000 
2001
6342
137,486
100%
137,486
0105204
WWTP SOLID HANDLING CAP CIP 467245
infrastruc
06/30/09
             125,434 
2009
8570
170,161
100%
170,161
0105205
WWTP CAPITAL REPLACEMENT CAP CIP 
infrastruc
06/30/09
          1,534,671 
2009
8570
2,081,895
50%
1,040,947
0105206
WWTP‐PH II MOD. DIGESTERS CAP CIP 467749
infrastruc
06/30/09
             123,645 
2009
8570
167,734
100%
167,734
0105209
HYPOCHLORITE/BISULFIDE REHAB CIP 469917
infrastruc
06/30/09
             474,344 
2009
8570
643,483
0%
0
0106499
PROJ#469945‐WWTP RETURN ACTIVATED 
infrastruc
06/30/13
             237,432 
2013
9547
289,145
100%
289,145
0107487
PROJ#469946‐WWTP BIOFILTER 
infrastruc
06/30/15
          2,361,658 
2015
10335
2,656,654
50%
1,328,327
0107488
PROJ#469949‐WWTP ANNUAL MAJOR 
infrastruc
06/30/15
          3,114,009 
2015
10335
3,502,981
100%
3,502,981
0109795
PROJ#469967 DIGESTER GAS TO COMPRESSED 
infrastruc
06/30/19
          6,276,284 
2019
11268
6,475,386
100%
6,475,386
SUBTOTAL
  103,520,011 
   16,283,888 
81%
      13,112,167 
GRAND TOTAL FUND 72
  219,540,297 
 317,508,949 
95.4%
    302,819,079 
1 Based on the change in the Engineering News‐Record Construction Cost Index (20‐Cities Average) from acquisition year to the December 2020 index of 11,625.95.
2 Represents the portion of each asset that will remain in operation after completion of the Clean Water Program.
Source:  Based on Fixed Asset Schedule 06/30/19 and input from City of San Mateo Public Works Department.
% In Service with CWP2
507 of 734

--- page 508 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
12 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Table 3 shows a schedule of existing sewer collection pipelines along with estimated replacement 
value  based  on  the  cost  per  linear  foot  of  pipeline  derived  from  the  actual  costs  from 
4 representative pipeline replacement projects undertaken by the City in recent years. 
 
Table 3 – Existing Sewer Collection System Pipeline Replacement Value 
 
Diameter
(inches)
Count
Feet
Miles Cost Scale
Unit Cost
per Mile
Unit Cost
per LF
Total Cost 
Unknown
2
517
0.1
           
0.86
7,094,008
1,344
694,622
4"
24
4,485
0.8
           
0.86
7,094,008
1,344
6,025,876
6"
3,509
708,708
134.2
       
0.88
7,284,875
1,380
977,812,282
8"
1,444
285,148
54.0
         
0.91
7,475,741
1,416
403,729,655
10"
320
67,463
12.8
         
0.93
7,666,607
1,452
97,956,881
12"
183
43,363
8.2
           
0.95
7,857,474
1,488
64,530,992
14"
14
7,856
1.5
           
0.98
8,048,340
1,524
11,974,955
15"
169
33,778
6.4
           
1.00
8,239,207
1,560
52,709,076
16"
1
193
0.0
           
1.30
10,710,969
2,029
391,518
18"
143
33,287
6.3
           
1.60
13,182,731
2,497
83,108,628
20"
8
7,205
1.4
           
1.80
14,830,572
2,809
20,237,551
21"
38
7,176
1.4
           
1.90
15,654,493
2,965
21,275,879
24"
76
18,551
3.5
           
2.20
18,126,255
3,433
63,685,634
27"
38
9,576
1.8
           
2.50
20,598,017
3,901
37,357,312
30"
58
17,637
3.3
           
2.80
23,069,779
4,369
77,060,925
33"
20
6,614
1.3
           
3.10
25,541,541
4,837
31,994,650
36"
16
5,068
1.0
           
3.40
28,013,303
5,306
26,888,526
39"
21
5,018
1.0
           
3.70
30,485,065
5,774
28,972,359
48"
3
120
0.0
           
4.00
32,956,827
6,242
749,019
54"
10
13,109
2.5
           
4.25
35,016,628
6,632
86,938,064
Total
6,097
1,274,872
241.5
       
2,094,094,403
1 Source:  Based on data from City's Cartegraph GIS System.
2 Source:  Based on cost estimates developed by San Mateo Public Works Department.
Notes:
Total Cost Estimate2
Sewer Collection System Pipelines1
Cost estimates based on actual costs for 4 representative projects totaling 27,556 linear feet constructed 
within last 4 years.  Used Sample Projects' lowest bids and CWP Performance Dashboard data for construction 
only costs and project total costs at completion. 15‐inch diameter cost is the basis for scaling the costs for the 
other diameters.  Includes 30% planning level contingency for project costs (Construction + Soft Costs).
508 of 734

--- page 509 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
13 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Table  4  conservatively  estimates  the  value  of  sewer  collection  system  lift  stations  based 
predominantly on the City’s Insurance Appraisal Schedule of Values supplemented by the actual 
costs incurred by the City on rebuilding two lift stations.   
 
Table 4 – Sewer Collection System Lift Station Value 
 
 
 
 
Type
ID
Location
Backup Power
Appraisal Value
Sewer
2ND QUEBEC
203 S QUEBEC
Portable
$315,429
Sewer
38TH AVE
3796 EL CAMINO REAL
Portable
315,429
Sewer
41ST AVE
3971 PACIFIC BLVD
Portable
315,429
Sewer
42ND AVE
1 W 42ND AVE
On Site
315,429
Sewer
ARROYO
20 ARROYO CT
Portable
183,164
Sewer
BAY MEADOWS*
SARATOGA DR
On Site
1,305,000
Sewer
CHATHAM EAST
205 N QUEBEC
Portable
315,429
Sewer
DALE AVE
DALE AVE
On Site
315,429
Sewer
FLINT NORFOLK
2413 S NORFOLK
Portable
315,429
Sewer
KEHOE KELLY
2223 KEHOE AVE
Portable
315,429
Sewer
KEHOE SCOTT
2444 KEHOE AVE
Portable
315,429
Sewer
LOS PRADOS 1
3000 LOS PRADOS
Portable
315,429
Sewer
LOS PRADOS 2
3160 LOS PRADOS
Portable
315,429
Sewer
LOS PRADOS 3
3301 LOS PRADOS
Portable
315,429
Sewer
MARINERS ISLAND 1
408 ANCHOR RD
Portable
315,429
Sewer
MARINERS ISLAND 2
635 MARINERS ISLAND BLVD
On Site
581,210
Sewer
MARINERS ISLAND 3
894 NEPTUNE CT
Portable
315,429
Sewer
MARINERS ISLAND 4
1500 MARINERS ISLAND BLVD
Portable
315,429
Sewer
MARINERS ISLAND 5
1659 VISTA DEL MAR
On Site
315,429
Sewer
MARINERS ISLAND 6
2021 WINWARD WAY
On Site
315,429
Sewer
MONGINI
2005 PACIFIC BLVD
Portable
315,429
Sewer
PARKSIDE AQUATIC
ROBERTA/SEAL ST
N/A
315,429
Sewer
PARKWOOD
1932 PARKWOOD
Portable
315,429
Sewer
SANTA CLARA
404 SANTA CLARA
Portable
315,429
Sewer
TOYON
1629 TOYON
Portable
315,429
Sewer
WOODBRIDGE*
95 WOODBRIDGE CIRCLE
Portable
2,800,000
____________
Total
11,808,812
* Values reflect construction costs of recent capital projects.
Source:  Reflects conservative estimate of remaining asset value from Insurance Appraisal Schedule of Values.
509 of 734

--- page 510 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
14 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Wastewater Capital Improvement Program 
Table 5 shows a summary of the City of San Mateo’s share of the Clean Water Program (CWP), a 
comprehensive  plan  to  upgrade  the  City’s  aging  sewer  collection  system  and  wastewater 
treatment facilities.   The table also shows the City’s anticipated sources of funding for the CWP.   
 
Table 5 – Clean Water Program & Sources of Funding by Year (San Mateo Share) 
 
 
Table 6 details the amount of the CWP that the City anticipates will be financed with debt vs. 
costs that will be funded on a pay‐as‐you‐go basis from cash contributions to the capital program. 
 
Table 6 – Clean Water Program Funding Sources (San Mateo Share) 
 
Fiscal Year Ending June 30
Through 2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
Total
Sources of Funds
2019 Bonds
38,684,242
   
83,903,556
   
99,413,309
   
26,342,349
   
16,884,225
   
18,007,090
   
283,234,771
  
Basin 2/3 WIFIA Loan*
10,343,923
   
70,059,910
   
4,736,167
     
85,140,000
    
WWTP WIFIA Loan*
13,656,314
   
121,467,063
 
75,215,983
   
210,339,360
  
Future Bonds/SRF Loan
80,224,142
   
23,731,458
   
103,955,600
  
Cash
73,027,806
   
7,438,363
     
8,141,379
     
10,755,826
   
7,155,799
     
31,260,166
   
19,108,141
   
4,421,345
     
765,940
        
162,074,765
  
 
  Total Sources
111,712,048
 
91,341,919
   
131,554,925
 
228,625,148
 
184,216,316
 
72,998,714
   
19,108,141
   
4,421,345
     
765,940
        
844,744,496
  
Clean Water Program Projects
Basin 2/3 Collection Project
19,210,149
   
21,239,791
   
51,064,137
   
70,059,910
   
4,736,166
     
166,310,153
  
Other Collection Projects
18,431,880
   
28,130,082
   
15,080,893
   
26,342,349
   
16,884,225
   
24,343,863
   
12,227,313
   
2,029,423
     
143,470,029
  
WWTP Project
38,504,438
   
34,533,683
   
57,268,516
   
126,325,125
 
157,462,059
 
44,695,451
   
3,924,680
     
462,713,952
  
Program Management
35,565,581
   
7,438,363
     
8,141,379
     
5,897,764
     
5,133,865
     
3,959,398
     
2,956,148
     
2,391,922
     
765,940
        
72,250,362
    
  Total Uses
111,712,048
 
91,341,919
   
131,554,925
 
228,625,148
 
184,216,315
 
72,998,712
   
19,108,141
   
4,421,345
     
765,940
        
844,744,496
  
* Construction costs to be financed on an interim basis using a short‐term note that will be refunded by the WIFIA Loan.
Source: Clean Water Program as of April 30, 2020 (from Economic Summit Presentation).
Clean Water Program Projects
Funding Sources
Sewer Collection System
Sewer Collection System
Basin 2/3 Collection Project
166,310,153
     
Basin 2/3 WIFIA Loan
85,140,000
       
Other Collection Projects
143,470,029
     
2019 Bonds & Future Bonds/SRF2
46.2%
178,778,344
     
Program Management1
40.1%
28,973,334
       
Cash Contribution3
74,835,172
       
___________
___________
  Subtotal
338,753,516
     
338,753,516
     
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Wastewater Treatment Plant
WWTP Project
462,713,952
     
WWTP WIFIA Loan
210,339,360
     
Program Management1
59.9%
43,277,028
       
2019 Bonds & Future Bonds/SRF2
53.8%
208,412,027
     
Cash Contribution3
87,239,593
       
___________
___________
  Subtotal
505,990,980
     
505,990,980
     
Total
844,744,496
     
844,744,496
     
1 Proportionately allocated based on share of project costs excluding project management.
2 Proportionately allocated based on share of project costs excluding costs funded by specific WIFIA loans.
3 Estimated based on share of project costs not financed via planned debt.
510 of 734

--- page 511 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
15 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Adjustments for Prior Sewer Debt Obligations 
In addition to debt issued to help finance the Clean Water Program, which is accounted for on 
Table 6, the City also has two other outstanding debt obligations including Sewer Revenue Bonds 
issued in 2011 and 2015.  Table 7 lists outstanding principal remaining on these two bond issues 
and shows an allocation of the share of outstanding principal associated with the wastewater 
treatment  plant  and  the  sewer  collection  system.    These  amounts  are  excluded  from  cost 
recovery in the updated fee calculations. 
 
Table 7 – Prior Debt Adjustment 
 
 
Wastewater System Cost Recovery 
Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Table 8 calculates the value of the City of San Mateo’s share of wastewater treatment plant used 
in the updated fee calculations.  Cost recovery accounts for: 
 50%  of  value  of  existing  wastewater  treatment  plant  assets  in  order  to  ensure  the 
updated  capacity  charge  only  recovers  the  value  associated  with  the  estimated 
remaining life of facilities.   
Outstanding Principal
as of June 30, 2020
2011A Sewer Revenue Bonds
Outstanding Principal
$20,365,000
2014A Sewer Revenue Bonds
Outstanding Principal
30,255,000
Total Outstanding Principal
50,620,000
Estimated Allocation*
Wastewater Treatment Plant
60%
30,372,000
Sewer Collection System
40%
20,248,000
  Total
50,620,000
* Source:  City of San Mateo.
Note: Excludes 2019 Wastewater Revenue Bonds which are accounted for as a 
funding source for the Clean Water Program.
511 of 734

--- page 512 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
16 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
 The City’s share of Clean Water Program treatment plant capital improvements that are 
for upgrades and expansions and will be funded by cash contributions.  Cost recovery 
excludes both a) the share of CWP projects anticipated to be financed with debt and 
b) the share of CWP projects that are repairs or replacements of existing facilities.   
 
The wastewater treatment plant is designed to both process volumes of wastewater flow and 
treat concentrations of wastewater contaminants.  As such, the treatment plant’s components 
are sized to account for both wastewater flow and strength.  The bottom of the table allocates 
treatment plant recoverable value to wastewater flow and strength ‐‐ with strength measured 
by Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Suspended Solids (SS) – based on input from the City’s 
Public Works Department. 
 
Table 8 – Wastewater Treatment Plant Cost Recovery 
 
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT
Existing WWTP Asset Value1
$302,819,079
  City of San Mateo Share of WWTP Value2
75.88%
229,779,117
  Less Outstanding Principal on Debt3
(30,372,000)
  Plus Prior Interest Payments on Debt
Excluded 
  Subtotal
199,407,117
  Cost Recovery %4
50.0%
99,703,559
Clean Water Program WWTP Value of Improvements5
505,990,980
  Less Estimated CWP Debt Financing5
(418,751,387)
  Cash Funding Requirement
87,239,593
  Less Est Share Repairs & Replacements6
39.9%
(34,829,204)
  Remaining Upgrade & Expansion Funding Requirements
52,410,389
Total WWTP Value for Fee Recovery
152,113,948
Cost Allocation4
  Flow
40.0%
60,845,579
  BOD
30.0%
45,634,184
  SS
30.0%
45,634,184
1 Source: Table 2
2 Based on City of San Mateo 75.88% ownership.
3 Source: Table 7
4 Based on input from City of San Mateo Public Works Department.
5 Source: Table 6
6 Source: Appendix A, Table A‐1
512 of 734

--- page 513 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
17 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Sewer Collection System 
Table  9  calculates  the  value  of  the  sewer  collection  system  assets  used  in  the  updated  fee 
calculations.  Cost recovery accounts for: 
 40%  of  value  of  existing  collection  system  valuation  in  order  to  ensure  the  updated 
capacity charge only recovers the value associated with the remaining life of facilities.   
 The City’s share of Clean Water Program collection system capital improvements that are 
for upgrades and expansions and will be funded by cash contributions.  Cost recovery 
excludes both a) the share of CWP projects anticipated to be financed with debt and 
b) the share of CWP projects that are repairs or replacements of existing facilities.   
 
Table 9 – Sewer Collection System Cost Recovery 
 
 
 
SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEM & OTHER ASSETS
Existing Collection System Valuation
  Sewer Collection System1
$2,094,094,403
  Sewer Lift Stations2
11,808,812
  Equipment/Other
Excluded
  Less Outstanding Principal on Debt3
(20,248,000)
               
  Plus Prior Interest Payments on Debt
Excluded 
  Subtotal
2,085,655,215
           
  Cost Recovery %4
40.0%
834,262,086
Clean Water Program Collection System Improvements5
$338,753,516
  Less Estimated CWP Debt Financing5
(263,918,344)
  Cash Funding Requirement
74,835,172
                 
  Less Est Share Repairs & Replacements6
61.6%
(46,124,056)
  Remaining Upgrade & Expansion Funding Requirements
28,711,116
                
Operating/Capital Fund Reserves as of June 30, 2020
Excluded
Total Collection System Value for Fee Recovery
862,973,202
Cost Allocation
  Flow
100.0%
862,973,202
              
1 Source: Table 3
2 Source: Table 4
3 Source: Table 7
4 Based on input from City of San Mateo Public Works Department.
5 Source: Table 6
6 Source: Appendix A, Table A‐1
513 of 734

--- page 514 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
18 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Wastewater System Capacity 
Table  10  shows  the  City’s  share  of  capacity  in  the  wastewater  treatment  plant  in  units  of 
wastewater flow and strength.  The City’s 75.88% share of capacity owned in the treatment plant 
reflects  the  maximum  level  of  projected  wastewater  demand  the  City  is  expected  to  serve 
through buildout and total wastewater system capacity used in development of updated capacity 
charges. 
 
Table 10 – Wastewater System Capacity 
 
 
 
WWTP Capacity
Flow (ADWF)1
15.70
                       
mgd
BOD
32,100
                     
lbs/day
245
                
mg/l
TSS
35,600
                     
lbs/day
272
                
mg/l
City of San Mateo Share
Share of Capacity2
75.88% Excludes Foster City's 24.12% share
Flow (ADWF)1
11.913
                    
mgd
BOD
24,357
                     
lbs/day
245
                
mg/l
TSS
27,013
                     
lbs/day
272
                
mg/l
1 Permitted Capacity (Average Dry Weather Flow)
2 Based on City of San Mateo 75.88% ownership.
514 of 734

--- page 515 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
19 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Wastewater Capacity Charges per Unit 
Table 11 calculates wastewater capacity charges per unit of flow, BOD and SS by dividing a) the 
recoverable  wastewater  system  value  by  b)  total  wastewater  system  capacity  for  each  fee 
component.  The value of the wastewater treatment plant is allocated for recovery from unit 
charges for flow, BOD and SS, while the value of the collection system is recovered entirely from 
a unit charge for flow.  Unit costs for the treatment plant and collection system are combined 
resulting in total unit charges for flow, BOD and SS that will applied to the estimated wastewater 
demands of different types of residential and commercial connections. 
 
Table 11 – Wastewater Capacity Charges per Unit for Flow, BOD & SS 
 
 
 
 
WWTP
Collection System
Total
Recoverable System Value
Flow
$60,845,579
$862,973,202
$923,818,782
BOD
45,634,184
45,634,184
SS
45,634,184
45,634,184
System Capacity
Flow (mgd)
11.913
11.913
Flow (gpd)
11,913,160
11,913,160
BOD (lbs/day)
24,357
SS (lbs/day)
27,013
Cost per Unit
Flow ($ per gpd)
$5.11
$72.44
$77.55
BOD ($ per lbs/day)
1,873.52
1,873.52
SS ($ per lbs/day)
1,689.32
1,689.32
515 of 734

--- page 516 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
20 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Wastewater Flow Assumptions 
Residential wastewater flows have decreased over the past couple of decades due to a number 
of  factors  including  conservation  and  increased  installation  of  high‐efficiency  toilets,  shower 
heads, washing machines, and dishwashers.  Based on review of water use data within the City’s 
service  area  from  the  lowest‐use  winter  months,  BWA  recommends  that  the  single  family 
residential  wastewater  capacity  charges  reflect  a  slightly  conservative  estimated  level  of 
wastewater discharge of 150 gallons per day (gpd).  This level of usage is lower than the City’s 
historical assumption of 200 gpd of discharge from a typical single family home.  Wastewater 
flows from other residential categories are also conservatively estimated.   
 
Wastewater flows for commercial customers are based on water meter size with the wastewater 
discharge from a base 3/4‐inch meter estimated at 150 gpd, consistent with the single family 
residential  flow  estimate.   Wastewater  flows  from  larger meters  are based  on each  meter’s 
capacity ratio compared to the capacity of the base 3/4‐inch meter.  For example, a 3‐inch meter 
has 10 times the capacity as a 3/4‐inch meter and is correspondingly estimated to discharge 10 
times as much wastewater as that of a 3/4‐inch meter. 
 
Accessory Dwelling Units 
Accessory  Dwelling  Units  (ADUs)  are  generally defined  as secondary  independent  residential 
dwelling  units  located  on  a  residential  property  and  may  include  a)  second  units  within  or 
attached to the living area of an existing primary residence, and b) detached accessory dwelling 
units.  In compliance with California Government Code Section 65852.2 governing accessory 
dwelling units, the City of San Mateo recently adopted, by ordinance, amendments to the San 
Mateo Municipal Code.   
 
Regarding capacity charges, Section 27.19.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code was amended 
to include the following text: “For an ADU located within an existing structure, payment of a 
connection fee or capacity charge is not required. For an ADU that is separate from an existing 
structure,  the  City  will  require  payment  of  a  connection  fee  or  capacity  charge  that  is 
proportionate to the ADU’s burden.” 
 
516 of 734

--- page 517 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
21 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
The City’s Municipal Code complies with California Government Code Section 65852.2, which 
includes the following requirements regarding water and sewer capacity charges for ADUs: 
 ADUs within the living area of a primary residence “shall not be considered to be a new 
residential use for the purposes of calculating connection fees or capacity charges for utilities, 
including water and sewer service.”  Hence, the City may not levy capacity charges on ADUs 
that meet the requirements of the Code and are constructed within the living area of primary 
residence.  To be considered within the living area of a primary residence, the Code permits 
“an expansion of not more than 150 square feet beyond the same physical dimensions as the 
existing accessory structure.” 
 Detached ADUs, or ADUs that require expansion of a primary residence in excess of 150 
square feet “may require a new or separate utility connection directly between the accessory 
dwelling unit and the utility. Consistent with Section 66013, the connection may be subject to 
a connection fee or capacity charge that shall be proportionate to the burden of the proposed 
accessory dwelling unit, based upon either its size or the number of its plumbing fixtures, upon 
the water or sewer system.”   
 
In compliance with the Code, the wastewater “burden” and capacity charges for ADUs eligible to 
pay such charges are proposed to be calculated in proportion to the square footage of each ADU.  
The  wastewater  flow  per  square  foot  for  an  ADU  is  conservatively  calculated  based  on  the 
estimated wastewater flow per square foot for a single family dwelling unit assuming a typical 
single family home size of 2,000 square feet. 
 
 
517 of 734

--- page 518 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
22 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Wastewater Customer Classes & Strength Assumptions 
Table 12 shows the wastewater strength assumptions for each of the City’s customer classes.  
The  table  also  lists  the  typical  types  of  businesses  associated  with  each  of  the  commercial 
customer classes.  The City retains the authority to determine the most appropriate customer 
class for each new wastewater connection. 
 
Table 12 – Wastewater Strength by Customer Class 
 
 
 
Customer
Class
Description
Typical Customers Included*
BOD (mg/l) 
SS (mg/l) 
Residential
Class A
Standard Strength
‐ All residential customers
200
200
Commercial
Class B
Standard Strength
‐ Standard strength commercial customers
200
200
‐ Professional offices
‐ Retail stores
‐ Convenience stores
‐ Beauty salons/barber shops/nail salons
‐ Schools/day care centers/places of worship
Class C
Moderate Strength
‐ Hotels & motels with restaurants
400
400
‐ Industrial laundries
‐ Mixed use (high strength comprises 25% ‐ 75% of flow)
‐ Supermarkets with food preparation, bakeries, meat or
 seafood counters     
Class D
High Strength
‐ Restaurants
800
600
‐ Wholesale bakeries
‐ Mortuaries
‐ Mixed use (high strength comprises > 75% of flow)
Class E
Special
‐ Determined on a case‐by‐case basis
varies 
varies 
_______________
Wastewater Strength
* The City retains the right to determine the customer class assigned to each customer; typical customer class assignments 
are shown for information purposes.
518 of 734

--- page 519 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
23 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Updated Wastewater Capacity Charges 
Updated wastewater capacity charges are calculated by multiplying the unit capacity charges for 
flow, BOD and SS calculated in Table 11 by the wastewater flow and strength loadings of each 
customer type resulting in a combined wastewater charge that reflects the wastewater demands 
and corresponding system capacity needs for serving each new connection.  Calculations are 
detailed on Table B‐1 in Appendix B.   As proposed, wastewater capacity charges would be applied 
as follows: 
 Residential Wastewater Capacity Charges are applied based on a) the number of single or 
multi‐family dwelling units or number of hotel/motel/boarding house room, multiplied by 
b) the applicable capacity charge per dwelling unit.  When applicable, capacity charges for 
Accessory  Dwelling  Units  (ADUs)  are  based  on  square  footage  in  compliance  with  the 
requirements of Government Code 65852.2.  
 Commercial & Institutional Wastewater Capacity Charges are applied based on both a) the 
water meter size of each new connection, which serves as a reasonable proxy for wastewater 
demand, and b) the appropriate wastewater customer class assignment, which reflects the 
wastewater strength of each type of customer.   
 Industrial Wastewater Capacity Charges are calculated on a case‐by‐case basis based on 
a) the  estimated  wastewater  flow  and  loading  for  each  new  connection  and  b)  the  unit 
capacity charges for flow, BOD and SS.  To help ensure the appropriateness of the amount of 
the capacity charge, the City should verify or calculate the estimated flows and loadings for 
each connection.  Some agencies periodically review the volume and strength of wastewater 
discharge from industrial customers and may require payment of additional capacity charges 
in cases where wastewater discharge significantly exceeds the amount of capacity purchased.  
 
The tables on following pages show updated wastewater capacity charges under a) an 80% cost 
recovery alternative, and b) a maximum cost recovery alternative.  BWA believes both charges 
represent reasonable and defensible calculations for facility cost recovery that balance the goals 
of a) recovering the cost of facilities benefitting new development and b) ensuring that the fees 
do not exceed the estimated reasonable cost of facilities benefitting growth.  However, BWA 
recommends adoption of the charges under the 80% cost recover scenario to provide additional 
assurance that the updated charges do not exceed the estimated reasonable cost of providing 
wastewater capacity to new development as required under California Government Code. 
519 of 734

--- page 520 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
24 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Table  13  shows  a  schedule  of  wastewater  capacity  charges  designed  to  recover  80%  of  the 
estimated maximum value of infrastructure benefitting new development.  By only including 80% 
of the estimated maximum recoverable costs of infrastructure, this fee calculation recognizes 
that the sources of data used to calculate the updated charges are themselves estimates and 
provides additional assurance that the updated charges do not exceed the estimated reasonable 
cost of providing capacity to new development as required under California Government Code. 
 
Table 13 – Wastewater Capacity Charges with 80% Cost Recovery 
 
RESIDENTIAL 
Capacity Charge per residential dwelling unit
Class A
Wastewater Strength
All Residential
  BOD (mg/l)
200
  SS (mg/l)
200
Type of Dwelling Unit
Flow (gpd)
1. Single‐family dwelling
150
$10,019 per dwelling unit
2. Multi‐family dwelling
a. Studio & 1 bedroom
75
5,009
           
per dwelling unit
b. 2 bedroom
125
8,349
           
per dwelling unit
c. 3+ bedroom
150
10,019
        
per dwelling unit
3. Hotels or motels
75
5,009
              
per room/apartment
4. Board or lodging houses
75
5,009
              
per bedroom
5. Accessory Dwelling Unit
0.075
5.01
                
per square foot
    (based on square footage)
COMMERCIAL/INSTITUTIONAL
Class B
Class C
Class D
Capacity Charge based on water meter size and Wastewater Class
Standard
Moderate
High
Wastewater Strength
Strength
Strength
Strength
  BOD (mg/l)
200
400
800
  SS (mg/l)
200
400
600
Meter Size
Ratio
Flow (gpd)
  Up to 3/4‐inch
1.00
150
$10,019
$10,732
$11,820
  1‐inch
1.67
250
16,698
17,886
19,700
  1‐1/2‐inch
3.33
500
33,396
35,773
39,400
  2‐inch
5.33
800
53,433
57,236
63,040
  3‐inch
10.00
1,500
100,187
107,318
118,199
  4‐inch
16.67
2,500
166,978
178,863
196,999
  6‐inch
33.33
5,000
333,956
357,727
393,998
  8‐inch
53.33
8,000
534,329
572,363
630,397
INDUSTRIAL
Capacity Charge based on estimated wastewater flow and strength
  Flow
$77.55 per gpd
  BOD
1,873.52
     
per lb/day
  SS
1,689.32
     
per lb/day
Wastewater Capacity Charges
Wastewater Capacity Charges
520 of 734

--- page 521 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
25 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
Table 14 shows a schedule of maximum wastewater capacity charges which account for full cost 
recovery  of  the  estimated  value  of  wastewater  system  infrastructure  benefitting  new 
development.  
 
Table 14 – Wastewater Capacity Charges with Maximum Cost Recovery 
 
RESIDENTIAL 
Capacity Charge per residential dwelling unit
Class A
Wastewater Strength
All Residential
  BOD (mg/l)
200
  SS (mg/l)
200
Type of Dwelling Unit
Flow (gpd)
1. Single‐family dwelling
150
$12,523 per dwelling unit
2. Multi‐family dwelling
a. Studio & 1 bedroom
75
6,262
           
per dwelling unit
b. 2 bedroom
125
10,436
        
per dwelling unit
c. 3+ bedroom
150
12,523
        
per dwelling unit
3. Hotels or motels
75
6,262
              
per room/apartment
4. Board or lodging houses
75
6,262
              
per bedroom
5. Accessory Dwelling Unit
0.075
6.26
                
per square foot
    (based on square footage)
COMMERCIAL/INSTITUTIONAL
Class B
Class C
Class D
Capacity Charge based on water meter size and Wastewater Class
Standard
Moderate
High
Wastewater Strength
Strength
Strength
Strength
  BOD (mg/l)
200
400
800
  SS (mg/l)
200
400
600
Meter Size
Ratio
Flow (gpd)
  Up to 3/4‐inch
1.00
150
$12,523
$13,415
$14,775
  1‐inch
1.67
250
20,872
22,358
24,625
  1‐1/2‐inch
3.33
500
41,744
44,716
49,250
  2‐inch
5.33
800
66,791
71,545
78,800
  3‐inch
10.00
1,500
125,233
134,148
147,749
  4‐inch
16.67
2,500
208,722
223,579
246,249
  6‐inch
33.33
5,000
417,444
447,159
492,498
  8‐inch
53.33
8,000
667,911
715,454
787,997
INDUSTRIAL
Capacity Charge based on estimated wastewater flow and strength
  Flow
$77.55 per gpd
  BOD
1,873.52
     
per lb/day
  SS
1,689.32
     
per lb/day
Wastewater Capacity Charges
Wastewater Capacity Charges
521 of 734

--- page 522 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
26 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
3. Application of Charges & Related Issues 
This section highlights some key issues regarding the application and implementation of the 
updated capacity charges and also identifies some related issues for City consideration. 
 
Capacity Charge Ordinance:  Purpose of Charge 
Pursuant to Government Code, revenues derived from the City’s capacity charges can only be 
used  for  the  purpose  for  which  the  charges  are  collected.    In  order  to  maximize  the  City’s 
flexibility for use of capacity fee revenues, BWA recommends that the ordinance or resolution 
adopting the updated wastewater capacity charges broadly define the purpose of the charge, 
such as to recover a proportionate share of costs for existing and future wastewater system 
facilities and assets from new or expanded connections to the wastewater systems.   
 
Use of Capacity Charge Revenues 
All of the updated capacity charge revenues are eligible to be used to fund capital improvements 
that represent upgrades and expansions.  At the same time, a little over 90% of the updated 
wastewater capacity fees recover costs for buying in to existing facilities and assets.  This portion 
of each charge represents a reimbursement for previously‐funded facilities and therefore may 
be used to help fund capital improvements for wastewater system repair, rehabilitation and 
replacement. 
 
Capacity Charges for Redevelopment Projects 
Capacity  charges  for  redevelopment  projects  and/or  expansions  should  be  based  on  the 
incremental  demand  generated  from  each  new  redevelopment  project.    For  example,  a 
redevelopment project with a 2‐inch water meter that is replacing an existing building served by 
a 1‐inch meter would pay the difference between the updated capacity charges for the 2‐inch 
meter and 1‐inch meter.   
 
Changes in Property Use & Customer Class 
In cases where a property experiences a change in use and associated change in wastewater 
customer class, such as if a standard strength office is converted into a high strength restaurant, 
the City is entitled to collect capacity charges for the increase in wastewater capacity charges 
522 of 734

--- page 523 ---
BARTLE WELLS ASSOCIATES 
 
27 
 
San Mateo Wastewater Capacity Charge Update 
associated with  the  change  in  customer  class  and  associated  increased  wastewater  strength 
loadings.  For example, an office with a 1‐inch meter that is converted to a restaurant with a 
2‐inch meter would pay the difference between the capacity charges for 1‐inch meter in standard 
strength Customer Class B to the charges for the 2‐inch meter in the high‐strength Customer 
Class D. 
 
Future Fee Adjustments 
In future years, BWA recommends that the City adjust its wastewater capacity charges annually 
based on the change in the Engineering News‐Record Construction Cost Index (20‐Cities Average) 
to account for future construction cost inflation.  The fee adjustment should be based on the 
change in the ENR index associated with the preceding fee update, which allows for a multi‐year 
adjustment if the City ever opted to temporarily defer an annual adjustment.  The City’s capacity 
charge ordinance can allow for automatic annual adjustments, but the City Council would always 
retain the authority to defer an adjustment. 
 
Additionally, the City should review and consider updating its capacity charges when substantial 
revisions are made to anticipated capital improvement costs or projected wastewater system 
demand.  In general, BWA recommends that capacity charges be independently reviewed and/or 
updated approximately once every five years. 
 
 
523 of 734

--- page 524 ---
APPENDIX A 
 
Clean Water Program Cost Allocation 
 
 
 
524 of 734

--- page 525 ---
Table A‐1
City of San Mateo
Clean Water Program Cost Allocation
Project
Project
Project
Project
Total
Number
Project Name
Type
Start
Finish
Est. Cost
%
$
%
$
%
$
469911‐C
South Trunk Phase 1 (101 Xing) Completed
CSP
Jan‐15
May‐16
$2,783,412
100.0%
$2,783,412
0%
0
100%
2,783,412
469916‐C
Collection System SCADA
CSP
Apr‐19
Dec‐20
1,876,563
100.0%
1,876,563
50%
938,282
50%
938,282
469942‐C
Dale Ave Pump Station Wet Well Rehabilitation
CSP
Oct‐15
May‐18
1,740,698
100.0%
1,740,698
100%
1,740,698
0%
0
469948‐C
SCADA‐Immediate Projects: Phase 2 (IAP‐Completed)
WWTP
Jan‐15
Nov‐15
1,294,329
69.1%
894,334
80%
715,467
20%
178,867
469962‐C
Short‐Term MCC Replacement Project (IAP‐Completed)
WWTP
Jan‐15
Nov‐15
38,156
69.1%
26,364
80%
21,092
20%
5,273
469973‐C
Secondary System: Immediate Projects: SCs 1‐4 and RAS 
Pump Values (IAP‐Completed)
WWTP
Jan‐15
Nov‐15
335,794
69.1%
232,021
80%
185,617
20%
46,404
469975‐C
Immediate Projects: GT 1&2 (IAP‐Completed)
WWTP
Jan‐15
Nov‐15
305,970
69.1%
211,414
80%
169,131
20%
42,283
469978‐C
Solids Bldg: Immediate Projects: Centrifuge Hoist Project (IAP‐
Completed)
WWTP
Jan‐15
Jun‐15
3,193
69.1%
2,206
100%
2,206
0%
0
469976‐C
Immediate Projects: Boiler Replacement (Completed)
WWTP
Jan‐15
Apr‐16
142,528
69.1%
98,482
100%
98,482
0%
0
469988‐P
East San Mateo Sanitary Sewer Lift Station Rehabilitation
CSP
Nov‐19
Jun‐22
1,052,466
100.0%
1,052,466
75%
789,349
25%
263,116
469988‐C
East San Mateo Sanitary Sewer Lift Station Rehabilitation
CSP
Nov‐16
Sep‐22
13,295,408
100.0%
13,295,408
75%
9,971,556
25%
3,323,852
469989‐C
Inflow/Infiltration Reduction Study
CSP
Jul‐15
Jun‐17
703,443
100.0%
703,443
100%
703,443
0%
0
46S001‐C
Basin 1A Collection System
CSP
Apr‐16
Jan‐20
7,053,327
100.0%
7,053,327
75%
5,289,995
25%
1,763,332
46S002‐C
Basin 1B Collection System
CSP
Jun‐16
Aug‐20
7,184,542
100.0%
7,184,542
75%
5,388,407
25%
1,796,136
46S002‐P
Basin 1B Collection System
CSP
Nov‐19
Jun‐20
710,958
100.0%
710,958
75%
533,219
25%
177,740
46S003‐P
Basin 2 & 3 Collection System (Incl Dale Ave Pump St)
CSP
May‐18
Dec‐22
80,371,639
100.0%
80,371,639
75%
60,278,729
25%
20,092,910
46S003‐C
Basin 2 & 3 Collection System
CSP
Oct‐15
Dec‐22
73,763,208
100.0%
73,763,208
0%
0
100%
73,763,208
46S005‐P
Basin 4 Collection System
CSP
Jan‐17
Feb‐25
71,569,345
100.0%
71,569,345
75%
53,677,008
25%
17,892,336
46S005‐C
Basin 4 Collection System
CSP
Jan‐17
Dec‐21
1,580,540
100.0%
1,580,540
75%
1,185,405
25%
395,135
46S090‐P
Sanitary Sewer Flow Monitoring and Hydraulic Modeling 
(Recurring Project)
CSP
Nov‐19
Jun‐26
613,682
100.0%
613,682
50%
306,841
50%
306,841
46S090‐C
Sanitary Sewer Flow Monitoring and Hydraulic Modeling 
(Recurring Project)
CSP
Jul‐17
Jun‐18
199,998
100.0%
199,998
50%
99,999
50%
99,999
46S091‐P
CWP‐2‐City Wide Sanitary Sewer Rehab Annual 
ProgramRehabilitation  (Recurring Project)
CSP
Apr‐20
Jun‐26
33,579,745
100.0%
33,579,745
100%
33,579,745
0%
0
46S091‐C
CWP‐2‐City Wide Sanitary Sewer Rehab Annual 
ProgramRehabilitation  (Recurring Project)
CSP
Jul‐15
Jun‐20
2,232,246
100.0%
2,232,246
100%
2,232,246
0%
0
46S091‐9151C‐C
Basin C Annual Rehab
CSP
Oct‐16
Jun‐20
4,729,844
100.0%
4,729,844
100%
4,729,844
0%
0
46S091‐9151D‐C
Basin D Annual Rehab
CSP
Oct‐16
Sep‐20
5,325,121
100.0%
5,325,121
100%
5,325,121
0%
0
46S091‐9151EL‐P
ElCamino Annual Rehab
CSP
Mar‐20
Dec‐20
3,699,806
100.0%
3,699,806
100%
3,699,806
0%
0
46S091‐9151EL‐C
ElCamino Annual Rehab
CSP
Oct‐16
Dec‐20
512,324
100.0%
512,324
100%
512,324
0%
0
46S092‐P
Biennial Pump Station Upgrade Program  (Recurring Project)
CSP
Nov‐19
Jun‐26
5,148,098
100.0%
5,148,098
75%
3,861,074
25%
1,287,025
46S092‐9455‐C
42nd Ave. Pump Station Rehabilitation
CSP
May‐15
Aug‐19
1,766,082
100.0%
1,766,082
75%
1,324,562
25%
441,521
46S092‐9456‐C
Force Main Pump Assessment Project (completed)
CSP
Sep‐15
Feb‐17
369,562
100.0%
369,562
100%
369,562
0%
0
46S093‐P
CCTV Inspection Program  (Recurring Project)
CSP
Nov‐19
Jun‐26
3,272,958
100.0%
3,272,958
100%
3,272,958
0%
0
46S093‐C
CCTV Inspection Program  (Recurring Project)
CSP
Jul‐15
May‐20
1,522,648
100.0%
1,522,648
100%
1,522,648
0%
0
46T002‐C
WWTP IAP Package 1
WWTP
Mar‐16
May‐19
18,955,947
69.1%
13,097,863
20%
2,619,573
80%
10,478,291
46T003‐P
Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management 
Upgrade and Expansion Project
WWTP
Jun‐19
Sep‐24
430,391,751
69.1%
297,384,896
40%
118,953,958
60%
178,430,938
Repair/Replacement
Upgrade/Expansion
San Mateo Allocation
&nbsp;
525 of&nbsp;734

--- page 526 ---
Table A‐1
City of San Mateo
Clean Water Program Cost Allocation
Project
Project
Project
Project
Total
Number
Project Name
Type
Start
Finish
Est. Cost
%
$
%
$
%
$
Repair/Replacement
Upgrade/Expansion
San Mateo Allocation
46T003‐C
Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Flow Management 
Upgrade and Expansion Project
WWTP
Jul‐15
Sep‐24
121,091,424
69.1%
83,669,728
40%
33,467,891
60%
50,201,837
46T009‐P
WWTP IAP Package 2
WWTP
Nov‐19
Jan‐22
2,256,629
69.1%
1,559,248
30%
467,774
70%
1,091,474
46T009‐C
WWTP IAP Package 2
WWTP
Oct‐16
Jan‐22
10,362,104
69.1%
7,159,833
30%
2,147,950
70%
5,011,883
46T010‐P
WWTP IAP Package 3
WWTP
Dec‐18
Dec‐24
2,385,099
69.1%
1,648,016
20%
329,603
80%
1,318,412
46T010‐C
WWTP IAP Package 3
WWTP
Nov‐19
Nov‐20
100,000
69.1%
69,096
20%
13,819
80%
55,277
46T090‐P
WWTP Annual Major Components (Recurring Project)
WWTP
Jul‐18
Jun‐26
5,658,784
74.2%
4,199,742
100%
4,199,742
0%
0
46T090‐C
WWTP Annual Major Components (Recurring Project)
WWTP
Jun‐17
May‐22
953,113
69.1%
658,566
100%
658,566
0%
0
SUBTOTAL
920,932,484
80.1%
737,569,472
49.5%
365,383,692
50.5%
372,185,781
469981‐P
Program Management Clean Water Program
PGP
Dec‐19
Oct‐26
37,739,609
83.6%
31,536,167
49.5%
15,622,666
50.5%
15,913,502
469981‐C
Program Management Clean Water Program
PGP
Nov‐14
Dec‐19
44,101,898
83.6%
36,852,656
49.5%
18,256,395
50.5%
18,596,261
TOTAL WITH PROGRAM MGMT
1,002,773,990
80.4%
805,958,296
49.5%
399,262,752
50.5%
406,695,544
  Subtotal WWTP
WWTP
594,274,821
69.1%
410,911,809
39.9%
164,050,871
60.1%
246,860,938
  Subtotal Collection System
CSP
326,657,663
100.0%
326,657,663
61.6%
201,332,820
38.4%
125,324,843
  Subtotal Program Management
PGP
81,841,507
83.6%
68,388,824
49.5%
33,879,061
50.5%
34,509,763
TOTAL WITH ALLOCATION OF PROGRAM MGMT
1,002,773,990
80.4%
805,958,296
49.5%
399,262,752
50.5%
406,695,544
  Subtotal WWTP
WWTP
647,086,887
69.4%
449,012,322
39.9%
179,261,976
60.1%
269,750,347
  Subtotal Collection System
CSP
355,687,104
100.4%
356,945,973
61.6%
220,000,776
38.4%
136,945,197
Source:  CWP Costs from Jacobs Engineering Group, dated 11/01/19; Cost allocation from City of San Mateo.
Assumptions 
1‐ Level of accuracy is +/‐ 5% 
2‐ Cash flows and analysis are based on the estimates and information available as of Nov 1, 2019. 
3‐ Any change of scope or variance in Projects start and finish dates will impact the cash flows and Escalation.
4‐ Contingency has been added to the cash flow projections; Risk premium has not been added
5‐ Escalation has been calculated at 3% per year from the most recent estimate submittal date for each individual project
6‐ Construction contracts that have been awarded are not escalated but the Project Management related to the construction is escalated at 3%
7‐ For projects with sub tasks funds are calculated by adding all the subtasks and the parent project
8‐ For Foster City Contribution is 24.12% for WWTP projects and 12.06% for PGM.
9‐ Other Agencies Contribution is 6.8% for WWTP Projects and 4.3% for PGM.
10‐ For multiple project segments, the segment timeline is determined by taking the earliest start date and latest finish dates of the individual projects.
11‐ Program pipeline work typically replaces or upsizes existing lines. 75/25 split was used to account for the replacement of existing infrastructure while acknowledging that upsized pipes offer new capacity.
&nbsp;
526 of&nbsp;734

--- page 527 ---
APPENDIX B 
 
Capacity Charge Calculations 
 
 
 
 
 
527 of 734

--- page 528 ---
Table B‐1
Maximum Charge Calculation
City of San Mateo
Wastewater Loadings & Capacity Charge Calculations
Flow
BOD
SS
Flow
BOD
SS
Total
UNIT CHARGES
$77.55
$1,873.52
$1,689.32
per gpd
per lb/day
per lb/day
Class A
Class A
Residential
200
200
Residential
Type of Dwelling Unit
Flow (gpd)
1. Single‐family dwelling
150
0.250
0.250
$11,632
$469
$423
$12,523
2. Multi‐family dwelling
a. Studio & 1 bedroom
75
0.125
0.125
5,816
234
211
6,262
b. 2 bedroom
125
0.209
0.209
9,693
391
352
10,436
c. 3+ bedroom
150
0.250
0.250
11,632
469
423
12,523
3. Hotels or motels
75
0.125
0.125
5,816
234
211
6,262
4. Board or lodging houses
75
0.125
0.125
5,816
234
211
6,262
Class B
Standard Strength
200
200
Meter Size
Ratio
Flow (gpd)
  Up to 3/4‐inch
1.00
150
0.250
0.250
$11,632
$469
$423
$12,523
  1‐inch
1.67
250
0.417
0.417
19,387
781
704
20,872
  1‐1/2‐inch
3.33
500
0.834
0.834
38,773
1,563
1,409
41,744
  2‐inch
5.33
800
1.334
1.334
62,037
2,500
2,254
66,791
  3‐inch
10.00
1,500
2.502
2.502
116,319
4,688
4,227
125,233
  4‐inch
16.67
2,500
4.170
4.170
193,865
7,813
7,044
208,722
  6‐inch
33.33
5,000
8.340
8.340
387,730
15,625
14,089
417,444
  8‐inch
53.33
8,000
13.344
13.344
620,369
25,000
22,542
667,911
Class C
Moderate Strength
400
400
Meter Size
Ratio
Flow (gpd)
  Up to 3/4‐inch
1.00
150
0.500
0.500
$11,632
$938
$845
$13,415
  1‐inch
1.67
250
0.834
0.834
19,387
1,563
1,409
22,358
  1‐1/2‐inch
3.33
500
1.668
1.668
38,773
3,125
2,818
44,716
  2‐inch
5.33
800
2.669
2.669
62,037
5,000
4,508
71,545
  3‐inch
10.00
1,500
5.004
5.004
116,319
9,375
8,453
134,148
  4‐inch
16.67
2,500
8.340
8.340
193,865
15,625
14,089
223,579
  6‐inch
33.33
5,000
16.680
16.680
387,730
31,250
28,178
447,159
  8‐inch
53.33
8,000
26.688
26.688
620,369
50,000
45,085
715,454
Class D
High Strength
800
600
Meter Size
Ratio
Flow (gpd)
  Up to 3/4‐inch
1.00
150
1.001
0.751
$11,632
$1,875
$1,268
$14,775
  1‐inch
1.67
250
1.668
1.251
19,387
3,125
2,113
24,625
  1‐1/2‐inch
3.33
500
3.336
2.502
38,773
6,250
4,227
49,250
  2‐inch
5.33
800
5.338
4.003
62,037
10,000
6,763
78,800
  3‐inch
10.00
1,500
10.008
7.506
116,319
18,750
12,680
147,749
  4‐inch
16.67
2,500
16.680
12.510
193,865
31,250
21,133
246,249
  6‐inch
33.33
5,000
33.360
25.020
387,730
62,501
42,267
492,498
  8‐inch
53.33
8,000
53.376
40.032
620,369
100,001
67,627
787,997
* Loadings (lbd/day) = Flow (gpd) / 1,000,000 x BOD or SS Strength (mg/l) x 8.34
Loadings* (lbs/day)
COMMERCIAL/INSTITUTIONAL
Strength (mg/l)
Loadings* (lbs/day)
Strength (mg/l)
Loadings* (lbs/day)
Strength (mg/l)
Flows & Strength Loadings
Capacity Charge Calculations
RESIDENTIAL 
Strength (mg/l)
Loadings* (lbs/day)
528 of 734

--- page 529 ---
APPENDIX C 
 
California Government Code: 
Key Sections Pertaining to Water & Wastewater Capacity Charges 
 
 
 
 
 
 
529 of 734

--- page 530 ---
California Government Code 
Key Sections Pertaining to Water & Wastewater Capacity Charges 
Sections 66013, 66016, 66022 & 66023 
 
66013 
 (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a local agency imposes fees for 
water connections or sewer connections, or imposes capacity charges, those fees or 
charges shall not exceed the estimated reasonable cost of providing the service for 
which the fee or charge is imposed, unless a question regarding the amount of the fee 
or charge imposed in excess of the estimated reasonable cost of providing the services 
or materials is submitted to, and approved by, a popular vote of two‐thirds of those 
electors voting on the issue. 
(b) As used in this section: 
(1) “Sewer connection” means the connection of a structure or project to a public 
sewer system. 
(2) “Water connection” means the connection of a structure or project to a public 
water system, as defined in subdivision (f) of Section 116275 of the Health and 
Safety Code. 
(3) “Capacity charge” means a charge for public facilities in existence at the time a 
charge is imposed or charges for new public facilities to be acquired or constructed 
in the future that are of proportional benefit to the person or property being 
charged, including supply or capacity contracts for rights or entitlements, real 
property interests, and entitlements and other rights of the local agency involving 
capital expense relating to its use of existing or new public facilities. A “capacity 
charge” does not include a commodity charge. 
(4) “Local agency” means a local agency as defined in Section 66000. 
(5) “Fee” means a fee for the physical facilities necessary to make a water 
connection or sewer connection, including, but not limited to, meters, meter 
boxes, and pipelines from the structure or project to a water distribution line or 
sewer main, and that does not exceed the estimated reasonable cost of labor and 
materials for installation of those facilities. 
(6) “Public facilities” means public facilities as defined in Section 66000. 
530 of 734

--- page 531 ---
(c) A local agency receiving payment of a charge as specified in paragraph (3) of 
subdivision (b) shall deposit it in a separate capital facilities fund with other charges 
received, and account for the charges in a manner to avoid any commingling with 
other moneys of the local agency, except for investments, and shall expend those 
charges solely for the purposes for which the charges were collected. Any interest 
income earned from the investment of moneys in the capital facilities fund shall be 
deposited in that fund. 
(d) For a fund established pursuant to subdivision (c), a local agency shall make 
available to the public, within 180 days after the last day of each fiscal year, the 
following information for that fiscal year: 
(1) A description of the charges deposited in the fund. 
(2) The beginning and ending balance of the fund and the interest earned from 
investment of moneys in the fund. 
(3) The amount of charges collected in that fiscal year. 
(4) An identification of all of the following: 
(A) Each public improvement on which charges were expended and the amount 
of the expenditure for each improvement, including the percentage of the total 
cost of the public improvement that was funded with those charges if more 
than one source of funding was used. 
(B) Each public improvement on which charges were expended that was 
completed during that fiscal year. 
(C) Each public improvement that is anticipated to be undertaken in the 
following fiscal year. 
(5) A description of each interfund transfer or loan made from the capital facilities 
fund. The information provided, in the case of an interfund transfer, shall identify 
the public improvements on which the transferred moneys are, or will be, 
expended. The information, in the case of an interfund loan, shall include the date 
on which the loan will be repaid, and the rate of interest that the fund will receive 
on the loan. 
(e) The information required pursuant to subdivision (d) may be included in the local 
agency’s annual financial report. 
(f) The provisions of subdivisions (c) and (d) shall not apply to any of the following: 
531 of 734

--- page 532 ---
(1) Moneys received to construct public facilities pursuant to a contract between a 
local agency and a person or entity, including, but not limited to, a reimbursement 
agreement pursuant to Section 66003. 
(2) Charges that are used to pay existing debt service or which are subject to a 
contract with a trustee for bondholders that requires a different accounting of the 
charges, or charges that are used to reimburse the local agency or to reimburse a 
person or entity who advanced funds under a reimbursement agreement or 
contract for facilities in existence at the time the charges are collected. 
(3) Charges collected on or before December 31, 1998. 
(g) Any judicial action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, void, or annul the 
ordinance, resolution, or motion imposing a fee or capacity charge subject to this 
section shall be brought pursuant to Section 66022. 
(h) Fees and charges subject to this section are not subject to the provisions of Chapter 
5 (commencing with Section 66000), but are subject to the provisions of Sections 
66016, 66022, and 66023. 
(i) The provisions of subdivisions (c) and (d) shall only apply to capacity charges levied 
pursuant to this section. 
(Amended by Stats. 2007, Ch. 94, Sec. 1. Effective January 1, 2008.) 
 
66016 
(a) Prior to levying a new fee or service charge, or prior to approving an increase in an 
existing fee or service charge, a local agency shall hold at least one open and public 
meeting, at which oral or written presentations can be made, as part of a regularly 
scheduled meeting. Notice of the time and place of the meeting, including a general 
explanation of the matter to be considered, and a statement that the data required by 
this section is available, shall be mailed at least 14 days prior to the meeting to any 
interested party who files a written request with the local agency for mailed notice of 
the meeting on new or increased fees or service charges. Any written request for 
mailed notices shall be valid for one year from the date on which it is filed unless a 
renewal request is filed. Renewal requests for mailed notices shall be filed on or 
before April 1 of each year. The legislative body may establish a reasonable annual 
charge for sending notices based on the estimated cost of providing the service. At 
least 10 days prior to the meeting, the local agency shall make available to the public 
data indicating the amount of cost, or estimated cost, required to provide the service 
532 of 734

--- page 533 ---
for which the fee or service charge is levied and the revenue sources anticipated to 
provide the service, including General Fund revenues. Unless there has been voter 
approval, as prescribed by Section 66013 or 66014, no local agency shall levy a new fee 
or service charge or increase an existing fee or service charge to an amount which 
exceeds the estimated amount required to provide the service for which the fee or 
service charge is levied. If, however, the fees or service charges create revenues in 
excess of actual cost, those revenues shall be used to reduce the fee or service charge 
creating the excess. 
(b) Any action by a local agency to levy a new fee or service charge or to approve an 
increase in an existing fee or service charge shall be taken only by ordinance or 
resolution. The legislative body of a local agency shall not delegate the authority to 
adopt a new fee or service charge, or to increase a fee or service charge. 
(c) Any costs incurred by a local agency in conducting the meeting or meetings 
required pursuant to subdivision (a) may be recovered from fees charged for the 
services which were the subject of the meeting. 
(d) This section shall apply only to fees and charges as described in Sections 51287, 
56383, 65104, 65456, 65584.1, 65863.7, 65909.5, 66013, 66014, and 66451.2 of this 
code, Sections 17951, 19132.3, and 19852 of the Health and Safety Code, Section 
41901 of the Public Resources Code, and Section 21671.5 of the Public Utilities Code. 
(e) Any judicial action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, void, or annul the 
ordinance, resolution, or motion levying a fee or service charge subject to this section 
shall be brought pursuant to Section 66022. 
(Amended by Stats. 2006, Ch. 643, Sec. 19. Effective January 1, 2007.) 
 
66022   
(a) Any judicial action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, void, or annul an 
ordinance, resolution, or motion adopting a new fee or service charge, or modifying or 
amending an existing fee or service charge, adopted by a local agency, as defined in 
Section 66000, shall be commenced within 120 days of the effective date of the 
ordinance, resolution, or motion. 
If an ordinance, resolution, or motion provides for an automatic adjustment in a fee or 
service charge, and the automatic adjustment results in an increase in the amount of a 
fee or service charge, any action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, void, or 
533 of 734

--- page 534 ---
annul the increase shall be commenced within 120 days of the effective date of the 
increase. 
(b) Any action by a local agency or interested person under this section shall be 
brought pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 860) of Title 10 of Part 2 of 
the Code of Civil Procedure. 
(c) This section shall apply only to fees, capacity charges, and service charges described 
in and subject to Sections 66013, 66014, and 66016. 
(Amended by Stats. 2006, Ch. 643, Sec. 20. Effective January 1, 2007.) 
 
66023   
(a) Any person may request an audit in order to determine whether any fee or charge 
levied by a local agency exceeds the amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost of 
any product, public facility, as defined in Section 66000, or service provided by the 
local agency. If a person makes that request, the legislative body of the local agency 
may retain an independent auditor to conduct an audit to determine whether the fee 
or charge is reasonable, but is not required to conduct the audit if an audit has been 
performed for the same fee within the previous 12 months. 
(b) To the extent that the audit determines that the amount of any fee or charge does 
not meet the requirements of this section, the local agency shall adjust the fee 
accordingly. This subdivision does not apply to a fee authorized pursuant to Section 
17620 of the Education Code, or Sections 65995.5 and 65995.7. 
(c) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (h), the local agency shall retain an 
independent auditor to conduct an audit only if the person who requests the audit 
deposits with the local agency the amount of the local agency’s reasonable estimate of 
the cost of the independent audit. At the conclusion of the audit, the local agency shall 
reimburse unused sums, if any, or the requesting person shall pay the local agency the 
excess of the actual cost of the audit over the sum which was deposited. 
(d) Any audit conducted by an independent auditor to determine whether a fee or 
charge levied by a local agency exceeds the amount reasonably necessary to cover the 
cost of providing the product or service shall conform to generally accepted auditing 
standards. 
534 of 734

--- page 535 ---
(e) The procedures specified in this section shall be alternative and in addition to those 
specified in Section 54985. 
(f) The Legislature finds and declares that oversight of local agency fees is a matter of 
statewide interest and concern. It is, therefore, the intent of the Legislature that this 
chapter shall supersede all conflicting local laws and shall apply in charter cities. 
(g) This section shall not be construed as granting any additional authority to any local 
agency to levy any fee or charge which is not otherwise authorized by another 
provision of law, nor shall its provisions be construed as granting authority to any local 
agency to levy a new fee or charge when other provisions of law specifically prohibit 
the levy of a fee or charge. 
(h) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), if a local agency does not comply with subdivision 
(b) of Section 66006 following the establishment, increase, or imposition of a fee, but 
requires payment of that fee in connection with the approval of a development project 
for three consecutive years, the local agency shall not require a deposit for an 
independent audit requested pursuant to this section and shall pay the cost of the 
audit. 
(Amended by Stats. 2018, Ch. 357, Sec. 1. (SB 1202) Effective January 1, 2019.) 
 
 
535 of 734

--- page 536 ---
May 24, 2021 
Brian Alexander 
Senior Management Analyst  
Community Development Department 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Dear Mr. Alexander; 
RE: San Mateo Proposed Impact Fees 
I am writing to you regarding the potential proposed changes to City of San Mateo 
Impact Fees.  Your presentation on May 20 was helpful in understanding the potential 
changes and subsequently, what the City Council will be considering at their Study 
Session on June 7, 2021. 
I appreciated your invitation to the meeting and the opportunity to comment on the 
proposed changes and ask that my comments below be forwarded to the City Council 
for consideration.  I am also happy to meet with you and other city staff at any time to 
clarify any comments, answer any questions or provide further feedback.   
As the meeting on June 7 is preliminary in nature and to my understanding the City 
Council will be giving staff direction on the materials presented and potentially 
requesting further areas of study, I respectfully request that consideration be given to 
the items below.  As a current and recent developer of several mixed-use projects with 
the downtown, these are the items that are foremost as I consider current and future 
development in San Mateo. 
•
Allow development projects that have already been submitted to the City as part
of a Preliminary or Formal Planning Application to be evaluated and fees
imposed under the current fee schedule applicable at the time the project was
submitted (prior to adoption of any fees proposed as part this larger
comprehensive effort) and regardless of when a building permit is issued for the
project.  While no formal decision has been made on the approval of these fees,
consideration should be given that these projects were proposed in context of the
structure of the current Master Fee Schedule in mind.  Some of the possible fees
proposed are significant multipliers of the current fees and imposing these fees
on projects that were submitted prior to this information being known may be
considered infeasible.
536 of 734

--- page 537 ---
•
The slides indicated that the Regional Growth projections (ABAG 2040) were 
utilized to estimate the infrastructure needs to maintain the City’s existing level 
of standard and service for its key service areas.  Based on this, it is my 
understanding that the maximum justifiable amounts for each fee have been 
presented.  Without being able to review the study prepared by the city’s 
consultant, it is difficult to understand how the maximum amounts were derived. 
I believe the study will be available as part of the City Council staff report made 
available to the public on June 3. If it is possible to review the study in advance 
of this date, that would be helpful, however, if it is not, I may have further 
questions just prior the meeting based upon review of this additional information.
•
Defer the adoption of a new fee structure and amounts for Traffic Impact Fees 
until the General Plan analysis is complete.  It is crucial to understand what 
policies the City ultimately ends up adopting regarding these complex issues to 
determine how these fees might be best structured and be most beneficial toward 
addressing City goals.  Currently, it appears that Traffic Impact Fees are 
primarily used to address identified improvements that facilitate vehicular 
circulation, however, based on recently approved documents, like the Bicycle 
Master Plan, it may be appropriate for a larger share of fees to be used for 
pedestrian and bicycle improvements.
•
Allow fee increases to be phased in, thereby allowing development to account 
for increased fees in a more consistent manner.  A large-scale fee increase, all at 
once can be destabilizing  and may have negative impact on the type, scale and 
quality of proposed development within the city.
•
It is not clear if a fee increase for the Commercial Linkage Fee is proposed at 
this time? If it is, it is not clear why this may be needed at this time.  This fee is 
much newer that many of the other fees being evaluated and the amount is 
consistent with the fee amount charged in other cities. I would ask, that a further 
explanation be provided outlining any increase in this fee.
•
The potential impacts fees that could be adopted as applicable to multi-family 
development are significant:
o
A new child care fee could be imposed, where there is not one now.
o
The sewer fees could be increased by five-fold.
o
The park impact fees could double. 
o
If these increases are adopted, this could result in a new fee amount per 
unit of approximately $30,000 in addition to the increases proposed in all 
the other fee categories.
537 of 734

--- page 538 ---
It is likely that increases in these fee categories will not encourage the 
development of new housing with the city, much less help to make housing 
more affordable.  This seems to be incongruous with the city policies 
encouraging the development of housing, especially at time when the city has an 
increased obligation to meet it’s Regional Housing Needs Assessment 
allocation.     
Sincerely, 
Mike Field 
538 of 734

--- page 539 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  25
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4643
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Introduction – Wireless Telecommunications Facilities in the Public Right of Way
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communication Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way”, to the 
San Mateo Municipal Code Title 17 “Streets and Sidewalks” and review the proposed Design and Engineering Standards 
and Application Requirements.
BACKGROUND:
The City adopted an ordinance in 2018 that established a process for wireless telecommunication sites in the public right-
of-way. In accordance with State Public Utilities Code section 7901, telephone companies, which include wireless 
telecommunications service providers, have a statutory right to place equipment in the public right-of-way. However, in 
accordance with Public Utilities Code section 7901.1, cities have the “right to exercise reasonable control as to the time, 
place, and manner”. Shortly after the City adopted San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) 17.10 and the corresponding 
standards, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) adopted its September 26, 2018 order, the Declaratory Ruling 
and Third Report and Order in the Matter of Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to 
Infrastructure Investment (the “FCC Order”), regarding small cell wireless facilities deployment (i.e. “small cells”). 
Based on the FCC Order, effective as of January 2019, all City permits and authorizations for small cells placed on an 
existing structure must be issued within 60 days from the submittal of the application materials. The total processing time 
for small cells placed on a new or replacement structure is 90 days from submittal. If the City does not meet the shot clock, 
the City will not have complied with federal law and risks the wireless carrier taking the position that the application is 
deemed approved. The City’s current approval process takes between 90 to 150 days, which is well beyond the FCC shot 
clock requirements. 
The FCC Order also imposed restrictions on fees and costs charged by cities related to the small cells requiring the charges 
to be reasonable and reflect actual costs to the cities. The City’s prior fee schedule will need to be reviewed and may 
require changes to the fees for the application, permit, and license, as well as the terms of the Master License Agreement, 
all to be consistent with the FCC Order. The FCC Order confirmed that local governments may regulate aesthetic standards 
for small cells but subject to certain limitations – they must be reasonable, objective, no more burdensome than on other 
similar infrastructure, and published in advance. 
In August 2020, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed most of the FCC’s requirements, including the FCC shot clocks. 
However, the Court did reject the “no more burdensome” and “objective” requirements related to the aesthetic 
standards, so the City may have a bit more discretion concerning aesthetic standards. Aesthetic rules must, however, still 
be both reasonable and technically feasible based on the prior FCC order. 
539 of 734

--- page 540 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Given the recent FCC Order and the Ninth Circuit ruling, as well as a letter from Verizon’s attorney that the City is not in 
compliance with the law, staff is recommending changes to SMMC 17.10 and the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements (Design Standards) to provide a streamlined process and comprehensive set of standards. Public Works staff 
worked with Atchison, Barisone & Condotti, outside legal counsel for the City, on revisions to the Code and Design 
Standards. 
Due to the rapidly changing rules and laws related to wireless telecommunications, the City’s design guidelines and 
procedures for implementing the City’s ordinance have been moved from the prior ordinance and instead have been 
inserted into the Design Standards and Application Requirements. This is intended to allow the Director of Public Works to 
revise the City’s procedures as set forth in the Design Standards and Application Requirements, if necessary, based on the 
authority issued by the City Council to do so, in order to respond quickly to the changing regulations in the public’s 
interest. 
A summary of the substantial Code revisions includes the following: 
1.
SMMC 17.10.020 – Definitions have been clarified, with the addition of the new reference to the Design 
Standards and Application Requirements, containing many of the details regarding the design and permit 
application. Permits will be reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or the Director’s designee. 
Originally, the Director of Public Works approved Minor permits and the Sustainability & Infrastructure (S&I) 
Commission approved Major permits. Appeals will continue to be heard by the S&I Commission. 
2.
SMMC 17.10.040 – There will be one wireless permit, including Section 6409 approvals. Minor and Major 
permit types have been deleted. 
3.
SMMC 17.10.050 – Many of the permit application details were moved to the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. Meetings were streamlined and simplified. In order to meet the FCC shot clocks, 
pre-submittal and neighborhood meetings are no longer required, but voluntary and highly encouraged. A 
submittal appointment is required for all applications. A notice is still required (formerly in 17.10.060), to be 
mailed to all residents and property owners within 500’ of the project site within five (5) days of the 
application submittal and provide proof notice was sent. The notice (in English and in other languages) is to 
require carrier contact information to allow public comment, the right to appeal, and also City webpage 
information. Approval of Decisions on applications will be posted on the City’s Small Cell webpage. 
4.
SMMC 17.10.070 – Protests and appeals were streamlined and simplified. All appeals to be reviewed by the 
S&I Commission including on an expedited basis to complete the appeal process within the applicable shot 
clock period. 
5.
SMMC 17.10.090 – Site location guidelines have been deleted and placed in the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements document. 
6.
SMMC 17.10.100 – Design regulations have been deleted and placed in the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements document. 
7.
SMMC 17.10.110 – Temporary wireless facilities are allowed only for emergencies and do not require a 
wireless permit. 
8.
SMMC 17.10.120 – Amortization of nonconforming wireless facilities requiring wireless facilities which do not 
comply with the current standards has been deleted. Language regarding nonconforming facilities has been 
added to the Design Standards and Applications Requirements document to allow procedures to be 
formulated in compliance with the changing laws. The current law allows for a ten-year period to come into 
compliance. 
540 of 734

--- page 541 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
9.
SMMC 17.10.130 – 6409 Approvals, which pertain to applications to add to or replace existing wireless 
facilities without substantially changing the dimensions of the existing wireless tower in the City’s right-of-way, 
have been streamlined and with more details removed to the Design Standards and Applications. Under 
federal law, the City is required to approve such applications with limited exceptions, and thus notice to the 
public is not required. The City will still provide information on any application on its webpage. 
A summary of the substantive revisions to the Design Standards document is summarized below. 
1.
Updated Formatting, Appearance, and Name. The Design Standards were modified to include new formatting, 
an expanded table of contents to include a list of figures and tables for easy reference, additional figures of 
acceptable and unacceptable designs, and updated Wireless Permit and Checklist. The name of the document 
was changed from “Design and Engineering Standards and Application Requirements” to “Design Standards 
and Application Requirements.” 
2.
Chapter 2 (Site Location, Pole Selection, & Design Standards). Siting location and design standards were moved 
from the Code to the Design Standards document. The Design Standards were generally updated to be more 
objective and clearer. 
3.
Chapter 3 (Application Process and Requirements). Added this chapter to include information previously found 
in the Code and to specify the process for applicants, as well as the public. The most significant change is that 
neighborhood meetings are no longer mandatory but are voluntary due to shot clock limitations imposed by 
the FCC. 
4.
Chapter 4 (Installations on Streetlight Poles). The design requirements were updated in Table 4.1 for 
installations on streetlight poles to include specific design standards for electric service and metering, and 
antenna placement. Table 4.2 was added to clarify the procedures for attachments to streetlight poles.
5.
Chapter 5 (Installations on Utility Poles). The design requirements were updated in Table 5.1 for installations 
on utility poles to include specific design standards for electric service and metering, antenna placement, and 
cables/wiring, as well as authorization from the pole owner. Figures 5.1 and 5.2 were added to display 
unacceptable and acceptable designs since the Standard Drawings were deleted. Table 5.2 was added to clarify 
the procedures for attachments to utility poles. 
6.
Chapter 6 (Installations of Freestanding Poles). The design requirements were updated in Table 6.1 for 
installations on freestanding poles to include specific design standards for electric service and metering, pole 
height, antenna placement, and equipment cabinets. Table 6.2 was added to clarify the procedures for 
freestanding poles. 
7.
Chapter 7 (Section 6409 Approval). Added this chapter to include information previously found in the Code 
and to specify the procedures for 6409 approvals. 
8.
Chapter 8 (Non-Conforming Wireless Facilities). Added this chapter to include information previously found in 
the Code and to specify that any non-conforming wireless facilities shall be brought into conformance with 
current design standards within 10 years. 
9.
Appendix. The Permit Application, Checklist and Standard Conditions of Approval were updated. The Detail 
Standard Drawings and Flowchart were removed. 
A redlined version of the ordinance and the proposed Design Standards and Application Requirements are attached for 
reference. A redlined version of the Design Standards is not included due to the substantial changes and reorganization of 
the document. A copy of the current Design and Engineering Standards and Application Requirements is attached for 
comparison purposes. 
Public Works presented the draft ordinance to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (Commission) on April 14, 
2021. The Commission made a recommendation to City Council to approve the draft Ordinance and Design Standards but 
had the following concerns and comments. 
The main concern expressed by the Commission was regarding the modifications to the neighborhood meeting 
requirements, which have been changed from mandatory upon request in residential areas to voluntary meetings at the 
discretion of the applicant.  Staff proposed the change to the meeting requirements due to shot clock limitations imposed 
541 of 734

--- page 542 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
by the FCC.  Prior to the current FCC Order, mandatory, pre-application public meetings did not start the shot clock and 
were held prior to an application being deemed complete.  Under the current FCC Order, a required neighborhood 
meeting would likely be considered a pre-application requirement and start or restart of the shot clock. A notice must still 
be mailed to all residents and property owners within 500’ of the project site within five (5) days of the application 
submittal. The FCC Order and shot clock severely limit the available time and make it extremely difficult for City staff to 
complete appropriate reviews on time.  If staff cannot complete the reviews within the available shot clock, the 
applications may automatically be deemed approved under federal law and further reduce the City’s ability to exercise its 
already limited control over small cell installation.
The Commission also requested that the required notification to all residents within a 500’ radius of a proposed small cell 
include other languages besides English as determined to be appropriate by staff and that the language requirement be 
included in the Code and not the Design Standards only.  Based on feedback from the Commission, staff added the noticing 
requirements to the Code and updated the noticing requirements in the Design Standards to include other languages.
Should the City Council support and formally introduce the draft ordinance, Public Works staff would return at the July 19, 
2021 meeting for the City Council to adopt the ordinance. In addition, at the July 19th meeting, staff will be recommending 
adoption of a resolution to: 1) approve the Design Standards; 2) authorize the Director of Public Works to make future 
revisions to the Design Standards, as necessary to comply with applicable rules and laws; and 3) adopt an amended fee 
schedule for the permit and licensing fees and associated administrative costs related to wireless facilities. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The cost for amendment of the Wireless Communication Facilities in the public right of way ordinance is funded by 
Engineering Services Private Development, which is paid for through the City’s General Fund. Sufficient balance is available 
to complete the ordinance amendment within FY 2020-21.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This review of an ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 - SMMC 17.10 Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-Of-Way with track changes
Att 3 - Proposed Design Standards and Application Requirements For Wireless Communications Facilities 
Att 4 - Current Design and Engineering Standards and Application Requirements 
STAFF CONTACT
Tracy Scramaglia, Senior Engineer
tscramaglia@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7316
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
542 of 734

--- page 543 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amend Various Sections of Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communication Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way,” to 
Title 17 of the San Mateo Municipal Code
WHEREAS, The City has an existing Wireless Communication Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way 
ordinance codified in Chapter 17.10; and
WHEREAS, The City wishes to amend various sections of Chapter 17.10 to ensure compliance with 
Federal Communications Commission order titled “Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order in the Matter 
of Accelerating Wireless Broadband Deployment by Removing Barriers to Infrastructure Investment” and current 
law; and
WHEREAS, The City wishes to streamline the application process and adopt a comprehensive set of 
standards.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 17.10.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.010 Purpose and Intent
(a) The City of San Mateo intends this Chapter 17.10 to establish reasonable, uniform and 
comprehensive standards and procedures for wireless facilities deployment, construction, installation, 
collocation, modification, operation, relocation, and removal within the City's public right-of-way, consistent 
with and to the extent permitted under federal and California state law. Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 332(c)(7), the City 
may not regulate the placement, construction, and modification of wireless service facilities on the basis of the 
environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent that such facilities comply with the Federal 
Communications Commission’s regulations concerning such emissions. To the extent permitted by federal law, 
the standards and procedures contained in this Chapter are intended to, and should be applied to, protect and 
promote public health, safety and welfare, and also balance the benefits that flow from robust, advanced 
wireless services with the City's local values, which include without limitation, the aesthetic character of the 
City, its neighborhoods and community. This Chapter is also intended to reflect and promote the community 
interest by (1) ensuring that the balance between public and private interest is maintained on a case-by-case 
basis; (2) protecting the City's visual character from potential adverse impacts or visual blight created or 
exacerbated by wireless communications infrastructure; (3) protecting and preserving the City's environmental 
resources; and (4) promoting access to high-quality, advanced wireless services for the City's residents, 
businesses and visitors.
(b) This Chapter is not intended to, nor shall it be interpreted or applied to: (1) prohibit or effectively 
prohibit any personal wireless service provider's ability to provide personal wireless services; (2) prohibit or 
effectively prohibit any entity's ability to provide any interstate or intrastate telecommunications service, 
subject to any competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory rules, regulations or other legal requirements for 
rights-of-way management; (3) unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent services; 
(4) deny any request for authorization to place, construct or modify personal wireless service facilities on the 
basis of environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent that such wireless facilities comply 
543 of 734

--- page 544 ---
with existing or future FCC's regulations concerning such emissions; (5) prohibit any collocation or modification 
that the City may not deny under federal or California state law; (6) impose any unfair, unreasonable, 
discriminatory or anticompetitive fees that exceed the reasonable cost to provide the services for which the fee 
is charged; or (7) otherwise authorize the City to preempt any applicable federal or California law.
Section 2. Section 17.10.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.020 General Definitions
The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in this Chapter will have the meanings assigned to 
them in this Section unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this Section will 
have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not 
defined therein, will have their ordinary meanings. In the event that any definition assigned to any phrase, term 
or word in this Section conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the federal or state-mandated 
definition will control.
(a) Base Station means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(1), as may be amended.
(b) City Council means the City Council of the City of San Mateo. 
(c) Collocation means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.60002(g), as may be amended.
(d) CPUC means the California Public Utilities Commission established in the California Constitution, 
Article XII, § 5, or its duly appointed successor agency.
(e) Design Standards and Application Requirements means the aesthetic and design standards and the 
wireless permit application requirements for wireless facilities adopted by the Director of Public Works, 
consistent with this Chapter.
(f) Director means the Director of Public Works of the City of San Mateo, or the Director's designee.
(g) FCC means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed successor agency.
(h) FCC Shot Clock means the reasonable time frame within which the City generally must act on a given 
wireless application, as defined by the FCC and as may be amended from time to time.
(i) Wireless Permit means the permit issued by the Department of Public Works for any work required in 
the public right-of-way for the installation or in support or otherwise related to a wireless facility, consistent 
with the Design Standards and Application Requirements adopted by the Director of Public Works consistent 
with this Chapter. 
(j) Personal Wireless Services means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)(i), as may be 
amended, which defines the term as commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services and common 
carrier wireless exchange access services.
(k) Personal Wireless Service Facilities means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)(i), as may 
be amended, which defines the term as facilities that provide personal wireless services.
544 of 734

--- page 545 ---
(l) Pole License or City Pole License means the license that the department of public works may issue for 
any wireless facility installation on a City-owned pole located within the public right of way, consistent with the 
requirements of this Chapter.
(m) Public right-of-way or City right-of-way means any public street, public way, public alley, or public 
place and the space on, above or below it, and all extensions thereof, and additions thereto, under the 
ownership or control of the city of San Mateo and in its jurisdiction.
(n) RF means radio frequency or electromagnetic waves generally between 30 kHz and 300 GHz in the 
electromagnetic spectrum range or otherwise within applicable legal exposure standards and limits.
(o) Section 6409 means Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, Pub. 
L. No. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156, codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), as may be amended.
(p) Small Cell Wireless Facility(ies) means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(l), as 
may be amended.
(q) Temporary Wireless Facilities means portable wireless facilities intended or used to provide 
personal wireless services on a temporary or emergency basis
(r) Tower means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(9), as may be amended.
(s) Transmission equipment means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(8), as may 
be amended.
(t) Wireless means any FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communication service transmitted over 
frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum.
Section 3. Section 17.10.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.030 Applicability
(a) Applicable Wireless Facilities. The provisions in this Chapter shall be applied to all wireless facilities, 
including, without limitation, all new facilities and existing facilities, within the City's public rights-of-way, 
including small cell wireless facilities, and all applications to construct, install, operate, collocate, modify, 
reconstruct, relocate or otherwise deploy wireless facilities within the City's public rights-of-way, including 
Section 6409 requests, except as may be expressly provided otherwise in this Chapter. 
(b) Exempt Wireless Facilities. Notwithstanding Section 17.10.030(a), the provisions in this Chapter will 
not be applicable to: (1) wireless facilities not proposed or currently located in the public right-of-way; (2) 
wireless facilities owned and operated by the City for public purposes; (3) amateur radio facilities; and (4) 
wireless facilities or equipment owned and operated by CPUC-regulated electric companies for use in 
connection with electrical power generation, transmission and distribution facilities subject to CPUC General 
Order 131-D.
(c) Special Provisions for Section 6409 Approvals. Notwithstanding Section 17.10.030(a), all requests for 
approval to collocate, replace, or remove transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station 
located in the public right-of-way and submitted pursuant to Section 6409 will be reviewed under the general 
545 of 734

--- page 546 ---
wireless permit application procedures provided in this Chapter, as well as the special Section 6409 provisions 
provided in Section 17.10.110 and the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
Section 4. Section 17.10.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.040 Required Approvals
(a) Wireless Permit. A wireless permit, subject to the City’s prior review and approval in accordance with 
the procedures in this Chapter and the City’s Design Standards and Application Requirements, is required for any 
applicant seeking to construct, install, modify, maintain or engage in an activity relating to a wireless facility in, 
on, under, or above the public right-of-way prior to conducting any work related to such wireless facility.
(b) City Pole License. Before any wireless facility is installed on a City owned pole located within the 
public right-of-way, wireless communications providers shall obtain a City pole license by entering into a master 
license agreement with the City in a form as approved by the City attorney, for the use of a City pole in a 
specified license area, and pay a license fee subject to the City’s fee schedule. Any applicant seeking a master 
license agreement shall additionally pay a master license agreement administrative fee subject to the City’s fee 
schedule to reimburse the City for reasonable costs in connection with its preparation, review of, and action 
upon the request for such an agreement. The applicant seeking a City pole license must also apply for and obtain 
a wireless permit. 
(c) Other Permits and Regulatory Approvals. In addition to any permit or approval required under this 
Chapter, the applicant must obtain all other permits and regulatory approvals as may be required by any other 
federal, state or local government agencies, which includes without limitation any other permits and/or 
approvals issued by other City departments or divisions. Furthermore, any permit or approval granted under this 
Chapter or deemed to be granted or approved by law shall remain subject to any and all lawful conditions 
and/or legal requirements associated with such other permits or approvals.
(d) Fees. All required fees, security instruments, and cash deposits related to the wireless permit, the 
City pole license, and other required permits and approvals consistent with this Chapter must be paid in full or 
be satisfied in order for a wireless permit or a City pole license to be issued by the City. In addition, City may 
seek reimbursement of the actual reasonable costs related to licensing, permitting, and administering wireless 
facilities in the public right-of-way as set by the City Council. Failure to comply with this provision shall be a basis 
to deny, revoke, or terminate the wireless permit, the City pole license or other applicable permit.
Section 5. Section 17.10.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.050 Application Process and Requirements
(a) Permit Application Form. The applicant shall submit a complete, duly executed wireless permit 
application in a form approved by the City, which may be updated from time to time by the Director. 
(b) Generally Applicable Design Standards and Application Requirements. All new wireless facilities and 
collocations, modifications or other changes to existing wireless facilities must conform to the City’s Design 
Standards and Application Requirements, which may be updated from time to time by the Director to be 
necessary or appropriate to process any application governed under this Chapter, as authorized by the city 
council. 
546 of 734

--- page 547 ---
(c) Procedures for a Duly Filed Application. Any application for a wireless permit will not be considered 
duly filed or complete unless submitted in accordance with any and all written rules and policies the City may 
adopt consistent with this Chapter, including but not limited to the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements.
(d) Notice.  Within five (5) calendar days of submitting an application for a wireless permit, the applicant 
shall provide written notice by first class U.S. mail to all property owners and residents within a  500’ radius of 
the proposed project site.  In addition, the notice shall be posted in a minimum of three (3) locations near the 
project site.  The content of the notice shall be in a form approved by the city and include information as 
specified in the Design Standards and Application Requirements, including but not limited to: 1) a general 
description of the proposed improvements and other equipment to be constructed or installed, and proposed 
site location; 2) applicant’s contact information for property owners and residents to submit comments 
regarding the project and the timeline to do so; 3) city’s webpage to access and be notified of decisions on 
applications;  and 4) right to appeal a decision and timeline to do so. 
Notices shall be in English and in other languages as deemed appropriate by the city. The applicant shall 
provide documentation of satisfaction of the notification requirement to the City prior to approval of the 
wireless permit.
(e) Additional Procedures. The City Council authorizes the Director to establish any other forms and 
procedures relating to the implementation of this Chapter.
Section 6. Section 17.10.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.060 Peer and Independent Consultant Review
(a) Authorization. The City Council authorizes the Director, in the Director's discretion, to select and 
retain an independent consultant with specialized training, experience and/or expertise in telecommunications 
issues satisfactory to the Director in connection with any permit application.
(b) Scope. The Director may request an independent consultant review on any issue that involves 
specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless facilities deployment or permit applications for 
wireless facilities, as further provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
(c) Consultant Fees; Deposit. In the event that the Director elects to retain an independent consultant in 
connection with any permit application, the applicant shall be responsible for the reasonable costs in connection 
with the services provided as detailed in the Design Standards and Application Requirements. The City shall not 
issue any construction or grading permit to any applicant with any unpaid deposit requests or invoices. 
Section 7. Section 17.10.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.070 Decisions, Decision Notices, Limited Exceptions, Protests, Appeals
(a) Decisions. The Director shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny a complete application for a 
wireless permit. A wireless permit shall be acted on within all processing timelines required by the FCC shot 
clocks, applicable state or federal laws, or other applicable timelines.
547 of 734

--- page 548 ---
(b) Required Findings for Approval. The Director may approve or conditionally approve an application for 
a wireless permit submitted under this Chapter when the Director finds all of the following:
(1) the applicant and the proposed wireless facility comply with all applicable requirements of 
this Chapter and the City Design Standards and Application Requirements; and
(2) the application is deemed complete by the Director; and
(3) the proposed wireless facility complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws, 
regulations, rules, restrictions and conditions, which includes without limitation, the California Building 
Standards Code or any local building codes; the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all applicable health 
and safety requirements, including Public Utilities Commission General Order 95, (and as these rules 
may be amended or superseded); General Plan and any applicable specific plan; the San Mateo 
Municipal Code; and any conditions or restrictions in any permit or other governmental approval issued 
by any public agency with jurisdiction over the project; and
(4) the applicant has demonstrated that its proposed wireless facility will be in compliance with 
all applicable FCC rules and regulations for human exposure to RF emissions.
(c) Conditional Approvals; Denials without Prejudice. Subject to any applicable federal or California laws, 
nothing in this Chapter is intended to limit the Director’s ability to conditionally approve or deny without 
prejudice any application governed under this Chapter as may be necessary or appropriate to protect and 
promote the public health, safety and welfare, and to advance the goals or policies in the General Plan and any 
specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and/or this Section.
(d) Limited Exceptions for Personal Wireless Service Facilities. In the event that an applicant claims that 
strict compliance with this Chapter and the Design Standards and Application Requirements would effectively 
prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal wireless services, the Director may grant a limited exception 
from such requirements in accordance with the required findings provided in the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
(e) Decision Notices to the Applicant. After the director acts on an application, and within the timeframe 
provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements or before the FCC Shot Clock expires (whichever 
occurs first), the Director or designee shall send a written notice to the applicant. In the event that the Director 
denies the application (with or without prejudice), the written notice to the applicant must contain: (1) the 
reasons for the decision and (2) instructions for how and when to file an appeal.
(f) Decision Notice to Public.  The decision on an application along with the appeal process, shall be 
posted on the city’s webpage on the same date as the decision is made. Notices to property owners and 
residents within 500’ of the project site shall be sent within the timeframe provided in the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
(g) Appeals. The applicant or any person who is a property owner or resident within 500’ of the project 
site may appeal any decision by the Director to approve or deny an application for a wireless permit. Appeals 
must be filed with the Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission within five calendar days 
following the Director’s decision. The Secretary shall set the appeal for hearing on the agenda for the next 
regular or special meeting of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, or otherwise within a time frame 
548 of 734

--- page 549 ---
needed to comply with all applicable state or federal laws. Appeals from an approval will not be permitted to 
the extent that the appeal is based on environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all applicable 
FCC regulations.  The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall review the appeal de novo, with the 
appellant having the burden of proof to establish the basis for seeking a reversal of the Director’s decision, and 
issue a decision at the hearing. The decision of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall be final 
and not subject to any further administrative appeals.
Section 8. Section 17.10.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.080 Standard Conditions of Approval
(a) Standard Conditions. All wireless facilities, whether approved by the Director or deemed approved or 
deemed granted by law shall be automatically subject to all standard conditions of approval as provided in 
Appendix C of the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
(b) Modifications to Standard Conditions. The Director (or the  Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend any standard conditions of approval on a case-
by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, 
allow for the proper operation of the approved wireless facility, maintain compliance with applicable laws 
and/or to advance the goals or policies in the General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code 
and/or this Chapter.
Section 9. Section 17.10.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.090 Revocation; Abandonment
(a) Revocation. Any wireless permit, City pole license, or other authorized use of the public right-of-way 
granted under this Chapter may be revoked or modified for cause in accordance with the provisions of this 
Section.
(1) Revocation proceedings may be initiated by the Director.
(2) Action. The Director shall act on the proposed revocation after the time for any appeal has 
lapsed.
(3) Required Findings. The Director may revoke or modify the permit, City pole license, or right 
to use, if it makes any of the findings provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
(4) Notice of Action. The Director shall issue a written determination of revocation and mail the 
determination to the permittee within the timeframe provided in the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements.
(5) A permittee whose permit or right has been revoked may have the revocation reviewed, 
upon written appeal to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission as set forth in this Chapter.
(b) Abandonment. Wireless facilities no longer used to provide service shall be removed by the last 
known owner of record of such facility, at the sole cost of said owner and to the satisfaction of the City.
549 of 734

--- page 550 ---
Section 10. Section 17.10.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.100 Temporary Wireless Facilities
Temporary wireless facilities may be placed and operated within the City without a wireless permit only 
when a duly authorized federal, state, county or City official determines an emergency exists within a region 
that includes the City in whole or in part. The applicant must still obtain all other permits and regulatory 
approvals as may be required by any other federal, state or local government agencies, which includes without 
limitation other any other permits and/or approvals issued by other City departments or divisions. Any 
temporary wireless facilities placed pursuant to this Section must be removed within thirty calendar days after 
the date the emergency is lifted by a duly authorized federal, state, county or City official. Any person or entity 
that places temporary wireless facilities pursuant to this Section must send a written notice that identifies the 
site location and person responsible for its operation to the Director as soon as reasonably practicable.
Section 11. Section 17.10.110 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.110 Special Provisions for Section 6409 Approvals
(a) Applicability. This Section applies to all requests for approval to collocate, replace or remove 
transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the public rights-of-way 
submitted pursuant to Section 6409. For all such requests, the applicant shall seek a wireless permit under 
Section 17.10.040(a), and except for the notice requirements in Section 17.10.050(d), comply with all other 
requirements in this Chapter and any special Section 6409 requirements as provided in the Design Standards 
and Application Requirements.
(b) Additional Section 6409 Definitions. In addition to the definitions in Section 17.10.020, the 
abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in this Section will have the following meanings assigned to them 
unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this Section will have the meanings 
assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, will have 
their ordinary meanings. In the event that any definition assigned to any phrase, term or word in this Section 
conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the federal or state-mandated definition will control.
(1) Eligible Support Structure means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(4), 
as may be amended.
(2) Existing means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(5), as may be 
amended.
(3) Section 6409 request means all requests for approval to collocate, replace or remove 
transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the public rights-of-way 
submitted pursuant to Section 6409.
(4) Substantial change or Substantially change means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 
C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(7), as may be amended.
(c) Required Approval. Any request to collocate, replace or remove transmission equipment at an 
existing wireless tower or base station located in the public right-of-way submitted with a written request for 
550 of 734

--- page 551 ---
approval under Section 6409 as indicated in the application form, shall require approval of a wireless permit 
under the general standards and procedures of this Chapter, unless specified otherwise or excepted, as well as 
any additional Section 6409 special provisions as provided in this Section and the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
(d) Additional Required Findings for Section 6409 Request Approval. The city staff may approve or 
conditionally approve a wireless permit application for a Section 6409 request when the city staff finds that the 
proposed project meets the approval requirements in this Chapter and the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements, as well as the following additional required findings:
(1) involves collocation, removal or replacement of transmission equipment on an existing 
wireless tower or base station;
(2) does not substantially change the physical dimensions of the existing wireless tower or base 
station; and
(3) remains in compliance with all applicable FCC RF standards.
(4) Criteria for Denial without Prejudice. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Chapter, 
and consistent with all applicable federal laws and regulations, the city staff may deny without prejudice 
any application for a Section 6409 request when the city staff finds that the proposed project:
(A) does not meet the findings required in Section 17.10.110(d);
(B) involves the replacement of the entire eligible support structure; or
(C) violates any legally enforceable law, regulation, rule, standard or permit condition 
reasonably related to public health or safety.
(e) Appeals. Any applicant may appeal the city staff’s written decision to deny without prejudice an 
application for Section 6409 request to the Director of Public Works within five (5) calendar days of the notice of 
decision. The written appeal together with any applicable appeal fee must be tendered to the City Clerk within 
five calendar days from the city staff’s  written decision and must state in plain terms the grounds for reversal 
and the facts that support those grounds. The Director of Public Works shall be the appellate authority for all 
appeals from the city staff’s written decision to deny without prejudice an application for section 6409 approval. 
The Public Works Director shall review the application de novo; provided, however, that the Public Works 
Director’s decision shall be limited to only whether the application should be approved or denied in accordance 
with the provisions in this Section and any other applicable laws. The Director of Public Works  shall issue a 
written decision that contains the reasons for the decision, and such decision shall be final and not subject to 
any further administrative appeals.
Section 12. Section 17.10.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
17.10.120 Review of Ordinance
Wireless communications technology is currently subject to rapid change. Innovations may render the 
need for specific sections of this Chapter to be reviewed and revised. The City Council may amend this Chapter 
551 of 734

--- page 552 ---
or its rules and policies by resolution after a change to the FCC’s regulations or standards, or any applicable state 
or federal laws.
Section 13. Environmental Determination. This review of an ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because 
it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code 
Section 21065.).
Section 14. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 15. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 16. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
552 of 734

--- page 553 ---
Chapter 17.10 WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
17.10.010 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
(a) The City of San Mateo intends this Chapter 17.10 to establish reasonable, uniform and 
comprehensive standards and procedures for wireless facilities deployment, construction, installation, 
collocation, modification, operation, relocation, and removal within the City's territorial 
boundariespublic right-of-way, consistent with and to the extent permitted under federal and California 
state law. Pursuant to 47 U.S.C. 332(c)(7), the City may not regulate the placement, construction, and 
modification of wireless service facilities on the basis of the environmental effects of radio frequency 
emissions to the extent that such facilities comply with the Federal Communications Commission’s 
regulations concerning such emissions. To the extent permitted by federal law, tThe standards and 
procedures contained in this Chapter are intended to, and should be applied to, protect and promote 
public health, safety and welfare, and also balance the benefits that flow from robust, advanced wireless 
services with the City's local values, which include without limitation, the aesthetic character of the City, 
its neighborhoods and community. This Chapter is also intended to reflect and promote the community 
interest by (1) ensuring that the balance between public and private interest is maintained on a case-by-
case basis; (2) protecting the City's visual character from potential adverse impacts or visual blight 
created or exacerbated by wireless communications infrastructure; (3) protecting and preserving the 
City's environmental resources; and (4) promoting access to high-quality, advanced wireless services for 
the City's residents, businesses and visitors.
(b) This Chapter is not intended to, nor shall it be interpreted or applied to: (1) prohibit or effectively 
prohibit any personal wireless service provider's ability to provide personal wireless services; (2) prohibit 
or effectively prohibit any entity's ability to provide any interstate or intrastate telecommunications 
service, subject to any competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory rules, regulations or other legal 
requirements for rights-of-way management; (3) unreasonably discriminate among providers of 
functionally equivalent services; (4) deny any request for authorization to place, construct or modify 
personal wireless service facilities on the basis of environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to 
the extent that such wireless facilities comply with existing or future FCC's regulations concerning such 
emissions; (5) prohibit any collocation or modification that the City may not deny under federal or 
California state law; (6) impose any unfair, unreasonable, discriminatory or anticompetitive fees that 
exceed the reasonable cost to provide the services for which the fee is charged; or (7) otherwise 
authorize the City to preempt any applicable federal or California law.
17.10.020 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in this Cchapter will have the meanings assigned to 
them in this Ssection unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this 
sSection will have the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to 
time, and, if not defined therein, will have their ordinary meanings. In the event that any definition 
assigned to any phrase, term or word in this Ssection conflicts with any federal or state-mandated 
definition, the federal or state-mandated definition will control.
553 of 734

--- page 554 ---
(a) "accessory equipment" means any equipment other than the antenna(s) associated with a wireless 
facility, which includes, but is not limited to, cabling, generators, fans, air conditioning units, electrical 
panels, equipment cabinets, pedestals, meters, vaults, splice boxes and surface location markers.
(b) "approval authority" means the commission, board or official responsible for review of permit 
applications and vested with the authority to approve or deny such applications. The approval authority 
for a major wireless permit is the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission or, on appeal, the City 
Council. The approval authority for a minor wireless permit is the Public Works Director or, on protest, 
the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. The approval authority for a section 6409 approval or 
a temporary wireless permit is the Public Works Director or, on appeal, the City Manager.
(ca) "base station" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.610040001(b)(1), as may be 
amended.
(bd) “City Council” means the City Council of the City of San Mateo. 
"City Manager" means the City Manager of the City of San Mateo, or the City Manager's designee.
(cefe) "collocation" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6400012(g)(b)(2), as may be 
amended.
(gf) "CPCN" means a "Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity" granted by the CPUC or its duly 
appointed successor agency pursuant to California Public Utilities Code §§ 1001 et seq., as may be 
amended.
(dfhg) "CPUC" means the California Public Utilities Commission established in the California Constitution, 
Article XII, § 5, or its duly appointed successor agency.
(ih) "Department" means the Department of Public Works of the City of San Mateo or its duly appointed 
successor agency.
554 of 734

--- page 555 ---
(egji) “Design Standards and Application Requirements” means the aesthetic and design standards and 
the wireless permit application requirements for wireless facilities adopted by the Director of Public 
Works, consistent with this Chapter.
(fhk) "Director" means the Director of Public Works of the City of San Mateo, or the Director's designee.
(jgil) "FCC" means the Federal Communications Commission or its duly appointed successor agency.
(hjmk) "FCC Shot Clock" means the reasonable time frame within which the City generally must act on a 
given wireless application, as defined by the FCC and as may be amended from time to time.
(ik) “Wireless Permit” means the permit issued by the Ddepartment of Ppublic Wworks for any work 
required in the public right-of-way for the installation or in support or otherwise related to a wireless 
facility, consistent with the Design Standards and Application Requirements adopted by the Director of 
Public Works consistent with this Chapter. 
 (l) (jln) "personal wireless services" means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)(i), as may be 
amended, which defines the term as commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services and 
common carrier wireless exchange access services.
(kmom) "personal wireless service facilities" means the same as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C)(i), as 
may be amended, which defines the term as facilities that provide personal wireless services.
(l) “Pole License” or “City Pole License” means the license that the department of public works may issue 
for any wireless facility installation on a City-owned pole located within the public right of way, 
consistent with the requirements of this Chapter.
 
(mn) “Public right-of-way” or “city right-of-way” means any public street, public way, public alley, or 
public place and the space on, above or below it, and all extensions thereof, and additions thereto, 
under the ownership or control of the city of San Mateo and in its jurisdiction.
(non) "RF" means radio frequency or electromagnetic waves generally between 30 kHz and 300 GHz in 
the electromagnetic spectrum range or otherwise within applicable legal exposure standards and limits.
(opo) "Section 6409" means Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, 
Pub. L. No. 112-96, 126 Stat. 156, codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a), as may be amended.
555 of 734

--- page 556 ---
(pqp) “small cell wireless facility(ies)” means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6002(l), as 
may be amended.
(qrs) "temporary wireless facilities" means portable wireless facilities intended or used to provide 
personal wireless services on a temporary or emergency basis, such as a large-scale special event in 
which more users than usual gather in a confined location or when a disaster disables permanent 
wireless facilities. Temporary wireless facilities include, without limitation, cells-on-wheels ("COWs"), 
sites-on-wheels ("SOWs"), cells-on-light-trucks ("COLTs") or other similarly portable wireless facilities 
not permanently affixed to the site on which they are located.
(rs)q) "tower" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.610040001(b)(9), as may be 
amended.
(str)) "transmission equipment" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.610040001(b)(8), 
as may be amended.
(tus) "wireless" means any FCC-licensed or authorized wireless communication service transmitted over 
frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum.
17.10.030 APPLICABILITY.
(a) Applicable Wireless Facilities. The provisions in this Chapter shall be applied to all existing wireless 
facilities , including, without limitation, all new facilities and existing facilities, within the City's public 
rights-of-way, including small cell wireless facilities, and all applications to construct, install, operate, 
collocate, modify, reconstruct, relocate or otherwise deploy wireless facilities within the City's public 
rights-of-way, including Section 6409 requests, except as may be expressly provided otherwise in this 
Chapter. 
(b) Exempt Wireless Facilities. Notwithstanding Section 17.10.030(a), the provisions in this Chapter will 
not be applicable to: (1) wireless facilities not proposed or currently located in the public right-of-way; 
(2) wireless facilities owned and operated by the City for public purposes; (3) amateur radio facilities; 
and (4) wireless facilities or equipment owned and operated by CPUC-regulated electric companies for 
use in connection with electrical power generation, transmission and distribution facilities subject to 
CPUC General Order 131-D.
(c) Special Provisions for Section 6409 Approvals. Notwithstanding Section 17.10.030(a), all requests for 
approval to collocate, replace, or remove transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base 
556 of 734

--- page 557 ---
station located in the public right-of-way and submitted pursuant to Section 6409 will be reviewed 
under the general wireless permit application procedures provided in this Chapter, as well as the special 
Section 6409 provisions provided in Section 17.10.050 and the standards in Section 17.10.1310 and the 
Design Standards and Application Requirements. To the extent that the applicant's request does not 
qualify for approval under Section 6409, the applicant may submit the same or a substantially similar 
application for a major or minor wireless permit under the general provisions in this Chapter.
17.10.040 REQUIRED APPROVALS.
(a) Minor Wireless Permit. A minor wireless permit, subject to the City’s the Director's prior review and 
approval in accordance with the procedures and design regulations in this Chapter and the City’s Design 
Standards and Application Requirements, is required for: any applicant seeking to construct, install, 
modify, maintain or engage in an activity relating to a wireless facility in, on, under, or above the public 
right-of-way prior to conducting any work related to such wireless facility.
(1) any new wireless facility proposed on an existing or replacement support structure with accessory 
equipment that does not cumulatively exceed nine cubic feet in volume; and
(2) any collocations, modifications or other changes to an existing wireless facility not subject to Section 
6409 with accessory equipment that would not cumulatively exceed nine cubic feet in volume; and
(3) any wireless facility installed on City-owned support structures or other personal property in the 
public rights-of-way pursuant to a valid master license agreement with the City.
(b) Major Wireless Permit. A major wireless permit, subject to the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission's prior review and approval in accordance with the procedures and design regulations in 
this Chapter, is required for:
(1) any new wireless facility and any collocations, modifications or other changes to an existing wireless 
facility not subject to a minor wireless permit or Section 6409; and
(2) any new wireless facility and any collocations, modifications or other changes to an existing wireless 
facility that require a limited exception pursuant to Section 17.10.070(c).
557 of 734

--- page 558 ---
(c) Temporary Wireless Permit. A temporary wireless permit, subject to the Director's prior review and 
approval in accordance with the procedures and standards in Section 17.10.110 is required for any 
temporary wireless facility, unless deployed in connection with an emergency pursuant to Section 
17.10.110(b).
(bd) City Pole License. Before any wireless facility is installed on a City owned pole located within the 
public right-of-way, wireless communications providers shall obtain a City pole license by entering into a 
master license agreement with the City in a form as approved by the City attorney, for the use of a City 
pole in a specified license area, and pay a license fee subject to the City’s fee schedule. Any applicant 
seeking a master license agreement shall additionally pay a master license agreement administrative fee 
subject to the City’s fee schedule to reimburse the City for reasonable costs in connection with its 
preparation, review of, and action upon the request for such an agreement. The applicant seeking a City 
pole license must also apply for and obtain a wireless permit. 
(c) Other Permits and Regulatory Approvals. In addition to any minor wireless permit, major wireless 
permit, section 6409 approval (as that term is defined in Section 17.10.130), temporary wireless permit 
or other permit or approval required under this Chapter, the applicant must obtain all other permits and 
regulatory approvals as may be required by any other federal, state or local government agencies, which 
includes without limitation other any other permits and/or approvals issued by other City departments 
or divisions. Furthermore, any permit or approval granted under this Chapter or deemed to be granted 
or deemed approved by law shall remain subject to any and all lawful conditions and/or legal 
requirements associated with such other permits or approvals.
(d) Fees. All required fees, security instruments, and cash deposits related to the wireless permit, the 
City pole license, and other required permits and approvals consistent with this Chapter must be paid in 
full or be satisfied in order for a wireless permit or a City pole license to be issued by the City. In 
addition, City may seek reimbursement of the actual reasonable costs related to licensing, permitting, 
and administering wireless facilities in the public right-of-way as set by the City Council. Failure to 
comply with this provision shall be a basis to deny, revoke, or terminate the wireless permit, the City 
pole license or other applicable permit.
17.10.050 APPLICATION PROCESS AND REQUIREMENTS.
(a) Permit Application FormRequired. The applicant shall submit a complete, duly executed wireless 
permit application in a form approved by the City, which may be updated from time to time by the 
Director. 
(b) Generally Applicable Design Standards and Application Requirements. All new wireless facilities and 
collocations, modifications or other changes to existing wireless facilities must conform to the City’s 
Design Standards and Application Requirements, which may be updated from time to time by the 
Director to be necessary or appropriate to process any application governed under this Chapter, as 
authorized by the city council. 
558 of 734

--- page 559 ---
(b) Application Content. All applications for a minor wireless permit, major wireless permit, section 6409 
approval or temporary wireless permit must include all the information and materials required by the 
Director for the application. The City Council authorizes the Director to develop, publish and from time 
to time update or amend permit application requirements, forms, checklists, guidelines, informational 
handouts and other related materials that the Director finds necessary, appropriate or useful for 
processing any application governed under this Chapter. All applications shall, at a minimum, (1) require 
the applicant to demonstrate that the proposed project will be in planned compliance with all applicable 
health and safety laws, regulations or other rules, which includes without limitation all building codes, 
electric codes and all FCC rules for human exposure to RF emissions and (2) contain sufficient evidence 
(such as a valid CPCN) of the applicant's regulatory status as a telephone corporation under the 
California Public Utilities Code. The City Council further authorizes the Director to establish other 
reasonable rules and regulations, which may include without limitation regular hours for appointments 
with applicants, as the Director deems necessary or appropriate to organize, document and manage the 
application intake process. All such rules and regulations must be in written form and publicly stated to 
provide applicants with prior notice.
(c)  Procedures for a Duly Filed Application. Any application for a major wireless permit, minor wireless 
permit or section 6409 approval will not be considered duly filed or complete unless submitted in 
accordance with any and all written rules and policies the City may adopt consistent with this Chapter, 
including but not limited toin accordance with the procedures in this Section the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.  All new wireless facilities and collocations, modifications or other changes to 
existing wireless facilities must conform to the City’s Design Standards and Application Requirements.
(d) Notice.  Within five (5) calendar days of submitting an application for a wireless permit, the applicant 
shall provide written notice by first class U.S. mail to all property owners and residents within a  500’ 
radius of the proposed project site.  In addition, the notice shall be posted in a minimum of three (3) 
locations near the project site.  The content of the notice shall be in a form approved by the city and 
include information as specified in the Design Standards and Application Requirements, including but 
not limited to: 1) a general description of the proposed improvements and other equipment to be 
constructed or installed, and proposed site location; 2) applicant’s contact information for property 
owners and residents to submit comments regarding the project and the timeline to do so; 3) city’s 
webpage to access and be notified of decisions on applications;  and 4) right to appeal a decision and 
timeline to do so. 
Notices shall be in English and in other languages as deemed appropriate by the city. The applicant shall 
provide documentation of satisfaction of the notification requirement to the City prior to approval of 
the wireless permit.  
(e) Additional Procedures. The City Council authorizes the Director to establish any other forms and 
procedures relating to the implementation of this Chapter.
Commented [SH1]:  Moved to City Council resolution.
The “Design Standards and Application Requirements” 
(which include “application requirements, checklists, 
guidelines, etc.) are also defined in the definitions section 
above and discussed in 17.10.050(b).
Commented [SH2]:  Moved to Application Requirements
Commented [SH3]:  Moved to Application Requirements.
559 of 734

--- page 560 ---
Any application for a temporary wireless permit must be filed in accordance with the procedures in 
Section 17.10.110.
(1) Pre-Submittal Conference. Before application submittal, the applicant must schedule and attend a 
pre-submittal conference with the Director for all proposed projects (a) subject to a major wireless 
permit; (b) that involve the deployment of more than five (5) facilities in the public right-of-way; or (c) 
that involve collocation, modification or other change to an existing concealed facility submitted with a 
request for approval pursuant to Section 6409. Pre-submittal conferences for all other proposed 
projects are strongly encouraged but not required. The pre-submittal conference is intended to 
streamline the review process through informal discussion that includes, without limitation, the 
appropriate project classification and review process, any latent issues in connection with the proposed 
or existing wireless tower or base station, including compliance with generally applicable rules for public 
health and safety; potential concealment issues or concerns (if applicable); coordination with other City 
departments responsible for application review; and application completeness issues. To mitigate 
unnecessary delays due to application incompleteness, applicants are encouraged (but not required) to 
bring any draft applications or other materials so that City staff may provide informal feedback and 
guidance about whether such applications or other materials may be incomplete or unacceptable. The 
Department shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment within five (5) 
working days after receiving a written request and any applicable fee or deposit to reimburse the City 
for its reasonable costs to provide the services rendered in the pre-submittal conference.
(e2) Submittal Appointment. All applications must be submitted to the City at a pre-scheduled 
appointment with the Director. Applicants may generally submit one application per appointment but 
may schedule successive appointments for multiple applications whenever feasible and not prejudicial 
to other applicants. The Director shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an 
appointment within five (5) working days after the Director receives a written request and, if applicable, 
confirms that the applicant complied with the pre-submittal conference requirement. Any application 
received without an appointment, whether delivered in-person, by mail or through any other means, 
will not be considered duly filed unless the applicant received a written exemption from the Director at 
a pre-submittal conference.
(fd) Informational Neighborhood Meeting. For any application subject to a minor wireless permit or 
major wireless permit proposed in or within 500 feet from a residential zone, the applicant must provide 
notice and an opportunity for an informational neighborhood meeting. Informational neighborhood 
meetings shall occur before any application is deemed complete and are intended to provide the 
community in the immediately affected area an opportunity to learn about the applicant's proposal and 
give the applicant feedback.
(1) Notice. The applicant shall provide written notice posted at the proposed project site and 
mailed by first class U.S. mail to all residents, property owners and other persons or entities 
Commented [SH4]:  A voluntary pre-submittal meeting 
with City Staff is discussed in the Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
Commented [SH5]:  Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
Commented [SH6]:  Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
560 of 734

--- page 561 ---
entitled to receive notice under Section 17.10.060 and the Director. The notice shall: (1) clearly 
state the applicant's name; (2) describe the proposed site location and the proposed 
improvements and other equipment to be constructed or installed, which shall include photo 
simulations, samples or renderings that depict the finished installation in context with the 
surrounding natural and built environment; (3) identify when the construction, installation, 
excavation or other work would begin and end; (4) provide a contact name and telephone 
number for the applicant's representative and the Department; and (5) clearly state that the 
notice recipient has 15 calendar days from the date on the notice to submit a written request to 
the City for an informational neighborhood meeting or else no such meeting will be held.
(2) Request for Meeting. If the City receives a timely request for an informational neighborhood 
meeting, the City will inform the applicant and the applicant shall provide at least 10 days prior 
written notice to all persons entitled to notice under Section 17.10.060 that such a meeting will 
take place. The notice shall: (1) contain all the same information required under Section 
17.10.060(c); and (2) provide the meeting date, time and location to present and discuss the 
proposed wireless facility. If the City does not receive a timely request for an informational 
neighborhood meeting, no meeting will be required.
(3) Meetings. Informational neighborhood meetings shall be held at an accessible location 
within the City, preferably at or near the location where the proposed site is or will be located. 
The applicant shall conduct the meeting, bring a scaled, three-dimensional mock-up of the 
proposed installation, and be prepared to answer questions posed by attendees. The meeting 
shall be held for at least one hour; provided, however, that the meeting may be closed earlier if 
no one arrives within the first 20 minutes after the noticed start time or if all attendees have 
had a reasonable opportunity to be heard. City staff may attend in an observational capacity. No 
official action may be taken by the City at any informational neighborhood meeting.
 
(e) Applications Deemed Withdrawn. To promote efficient review and timely decisions, any application 
governed under this Chapter will be automatically deemed withdrawn by the applicant when the 
applicant fails to tender a substantive response to the Department within 90 calendar days after the 
Director deems the application incomplete in a subsequent written notice to the applicant after a prior 
written notice of incompleteness has been provided. The Director may, in the Director's discretion, grant 
a written extension for up to an additional 30 calendar days when the applicant submits a written 
request prior to the 90th day that shows good cause to grant the extension. Delays due to circumstances 
outside the applicant's reasonable control will be considered good cause to grant the extension.
17.10.060 PEER AND INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT REVIEW. 
(1) Authorization. The City Council authorizes the Director to, in the Director's discretion, to select and 
retain an independent consultant with specialized training, experience and/or expertise in 
telecommunications issues satisfactory to the Director in connection with any permit application.
Commented [SH7]:  Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
561 of 734

--- page 562 ---
(2) Scope. The Director may request an independent consultant review on any issue that involves 
specialized or expert knowledge in connection with wireless facilities deployment or permit applications 
for wireless facilities, as further provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements. , which 
include without limitation: (a) permit application completeness and/or accuracy; (b) pre-construction 
planned compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (c) post-
construction actual compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (d) 
whether and to what extent a proposed project will address a gap in the applicant's wireless services; (e) 
whether and to what extent any technically feasible and/or potentially available alternative sites or 
concealment techniques may exist; (f) the applicability, reliability and/or sufficiency of any information, 
analyses or methodologies used by the applicant to reach any conclusions about any issue with the 
City's discretion to review; and (g) any other issue identified by the Director that requires expert or 
specialized knowledge. The Director may request that the independent consultant prepare written 
reports, testify at public meetings, hearings and/or appeals and attend meetings with City staff and/or 
the applicant.
(3) Consultant Fees; Deposit. In the event that the Director elects to retain an independent consultant in 
connection with any permit application, the applicant shall be responsible for the reasonable costs in 
connection with the services provided as detailed in the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements. , which may include without limitation any costs incurred by the independent consultant 
to attend and participate in any meetings or hearings. Before the independent consultant may perform 
any services, the applicant shall tender to the City a deposit in an amount equal to the estimated cost 
for the services to be provided, as determined by the Director. The Director may request additional 
deposits as reasonably necessary to ensure sufficient funds are available to cover the reasonable costs 
in connection with the independent consultant's services. In the event that the deposit exceeds the total 
costs for consultant's services, the Director shall promptly return any unused funds to the applicant after 
the wireless facility has been installed and passes a final inspection by the appropriate City official or his 
or her designee. In the event that the reasonable costs for the independent consultant's services exceed 
the deposit, the Director shall invoice the applicant for the balance. The City shall not issue any 
construction or grading permit to any applicant with any unpaid deposit requests or invoices.
 17.10.060 NOTICE.
(a) Notice Requirements for Minor Wireless Permits. The Director shall administratively review a 
complete and duly filed application for a minor wireless permit and may act on such application without 
prior notice, except as provided in Section 17.10.050(d), or a public hearing. Within five days after the 
Director's decision, notice of the decision shall be posted at the project site and mailed to all properties 
within 500 feet from the proposed project site measured radially from the centerline of the public right-
of-way in both directions. The mailed and posted notice must contain: (1) a general description for the 
proposed project, which shall include photo simulations, samples or renderings that depict the finished 
installation in context with the surrounding natural and built environment; (2) the Director's decision; 
(3) the applicant's name and contact information as provided on the application submitted to the City; 
Commented [SH8]:  Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
Commented [SH9]:  Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
562 of 734

--- page 563 ---
(4) contact information for the Department; and (5) instructions for how and when to file a protest with 
the Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission.
(b) Notice Requirements for Major Wireless Permits. Public notice and a hearing before the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall be required for all major wireless permit applications. 
In addition to posted notice at the proposed project site, notice shall be mailed to all properties within 
500 feet of the proposed project site measured radially from the centerline of the public right-of-way in 
both directions. The mailed and posted notice must contain: (1) a general description for the proposed 
project, which shall include photo simulations, samples or renderings that depict the finished installation 
in context with the surrounding natural and built environment; (2) the applicant's name and contact 
information as provided on the application submitted to the City; (4) contact information for the 
Department; and (5) the date, time and location for the public hearing.
(c) Deemed-Approval Notice. Not more than 30 days before the applicable FCC Shot Clock expires, and 
in addition to any public notice required prior to a decision, an applicant for a minor wireless permit or a 
major wireless permit must provide a posted notice at the project site that contains: (1) a statement the 
project will be automatically deemed approved pursuant to California Government Code § 65964.1 
unless the City approves or denies the application or the applicant voluntarily agrees to toll the 
timeframe for review within the next 30 days; (2) a general description for the proposed project; (3) the 
applicant's name and contact information as provided on the application submitted to the City; and (4) 
contact information for the Department. The public notice required under this Section will be deemed 
given when the applicant delivers written notice to the Director that shows the appropriate notice has 
been posted at the project site. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Chapter, the approval 
authority shall be permitted to act on an application for a minor wireless permit or a major wireless 
permit at any time so long as any applicable prior public notice in this Section has occurred.
(d) Decision Notices to the Applicant. Within five days after the approval authority acts on an application 
governed under this Chapter or before the FCC Shot Clock expires (whichever occurs first), the approval 
authority or its designee shall send a written notice to the applicant. In the event that the approval 
authority denies the application (with or without prejudice), the written notice to the applicant must 
contain: (1) the reasons for the decision and (2) instructions for how and when to file an appeal.
17.10.070 DECISIONS; DECISION NOTICES; LIMITED EXCEPTIONS; PROTESTS; APPEALS.
(a) Decisions. The Director shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny a complete application for a 
wireless permit. A wireless permit shall be acted on within all processing timelines required by the FCC 
shot clocks, applicable state or federal laws, or other applicable timelines.
Commented [SH10]:  Notice requirements moved to 
17.10.050(d) and also included in Design Standards and 
Application Requirements. 
Commented [SH11]:  Moved to Section below.
563 of 734

--- page 564 ---
(b) Required Findings for Approval. The Directorapproval authority may approve or conditionally 
approve an application for a minor wireless permit or major wireless permit submitted under this 
Chapter when the approval authorityDirector finds all of the following:
(1) the applicant and the proposed wireless facility complyies with all applicable requirements of this 
Chapter and the site location Permit Gguidelines in Section 17.10.090 and City Ddesign Standards and 
Application Requirementsregulations in Section 17.10.100; and
(2) the application is deemed complete by the Director; and
(32) the proposed wireless facility complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, 
rules, restrictions and conditions, which includes without limitation, the California Building Standards 
Code or any local building codes; the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all applicable health and safety 
requirements, including Public Utilities Commission General Order 95, (and as these rules may be 
amended or superseded); General Plan and any applicable specific plan; the San Mateo Municipal Code; 
and any conditions or restrictions in any permit or other governmental approval issued by any public 
agency with jurisdiction over the project; and
(4) the applicant has demonstrated that its proposed wireless facility will be in compliance with all 
applicable FCC rules and regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; and.
(3) the applicant has proposed to place the wireless facility in the most-preferred location or, if the 
wireless facility is not proposed in the most-preferred location, the applicant has demonstrated a good-
faith effort to identify and evaluate more-preferred alternative locations through a meaningful 
comparative analysis; and
(4) the applicant has provided the approval authority with a meaningful comparative analysis that shows 
all more-preferred alternative designs identified in the administrative record are either technically 
infeasible or unavailable.
(cb) Conditional Approvals; Denials without Prejudice. Subject to any applicable federal or California 
laws, nothing in this Chapter is intended to limit the Director’sapproval authority's ability to 
conditionally approve or deny without prejudice any application governed under this Chapter as may be 
necessary or appropriate to protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare, and to advance 
Commented [SH12]:  Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements document.
564 of 734

--- page 565 ---
the goals or policies in the General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and/or this 
sSection.
(dc) Limited Exceptions for Personal Wireless Service Facilities. In the event that an applicant claims that 
strict compliance with this Chapter and the design regulations in Section 17.10.100Design Standards and 
Application Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal wireless 
services, the Sustainability and Infrastructure CommissionDirector may grant a limited exception from 
such requirements in accordance with this Sub Sectionthe required findings provided in the Design 
Standards and Application Requirements. A
(1) Required Findings. The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall not grant any limited 
exception unless the applicant shows that:
(A) the proposed wireless facility qualifies as a "personal wireless service facility" as defined in 47 U.S.C. 
§ 332(c)(7)(C)(ii), as may be amended or superseded; and
(B) the applicant has provided the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission with a reasonable and 
clearly defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility; and
(C) the applicant has provided the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission with a written 
statement that contains a detailed and fact-specific explanation as to why the proposed wireless facility 
cannot be deployed in compliance with the applicable provisions in this Chapter; and
(D) the applicant has provided the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission with a meaningful 
comparative analysis with the factual reasons why all alternative locations and/or designs identified in 
the administrative record (whether suggested by the applicant, the City, public comments or any other 
source) are not technically feasible or potentially available to reasonably achieve the applicant's 
reasonable and clearly defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless 
facility; and
(E) the applicant has demonstrated to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission that the 
proposed location and design is the least non-compliant configuration that will reasonably achieve the 
applicant's reasonable and clearly defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed 
wireless facility, which includes without limitation a meaningful comparative analysis into multiple 
smaller or less intrusive wireless facilities dispersed throughout the intended service area.
Commented [SH13]:  Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
565 of 734

--- page 566 ---
(2) Limitations on Exceptions. Any limited exception shall be narrowly tailored to ensure that any 
deviations from the design regulations in Section 17.10.100 are no greater than necessary to avoid an 
effective prohibition of the applicant's personal wireless services. Limited exceptions shall be based on 
the facts and circumstances of the applicant, its demonstrated technical service objectives at the time 
the exception is granted and the proposed wireless facility and shall not be deemed to establish any 
precedent for similar deviations for the same or any other applicant, location or wireless facility.
(e) Decision Notices to the Applicant. After the director acts on an application, and within the timeframe 
provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements or before the FCC Shot Clock expires 
(whichever occurs first), the Director or its designee shall send a written notice to the applicant. In the 
event that the Director denies the application (with or without prejudice), the written notice to the 
applicant must contain: (1) the reasons for the decision and (2) instructions for how and when to file an 
appeal.
(f) Decision Notice to Public.  The decision on an application along with the appeal process, shall be 
posted on the city’s webpage on the same date as the decision is made. Notices to property owners and 
residents within 500’ of the project site shall be sent within the timeframe provided in the Design 
Standards and Application Requirements.
(d) Right to Protest Director's Decision. Any interested person or entity may protest any decision by the 
Director to approve or deny an application for a minor wireless permit. Protests must be filed with the 
Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission within ten calendar days following the 
City's mailing of the decision notice required under Section 17.10.060. No fee shall be required to file 
any protest under this Section. On the next available meeting date after the protest period lapses, or as 
soon as reasonably feasible thereafter, the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall hold a de 
novo public hearing to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings for 
the project. Protests from an approval will not be permitted to the extent that the protest is based on 
environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all applicable FCC regulations. The protest 
decision may be appealed to the City Council under Section 17.10.070.
(gfde) Appeals. The applicant or any person who is a property owner or resident within 500’ of the 
project sitereceived notice of an application under this ChapterAny interested person or entity may 
appeal any decision by the approval authorityDirector to approve or deny an application for a minor 
wireless permit or major wireless permit. Appeals and the applicable filing fee must be filed with the 
City ClerkSecretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission within fiveten calendar days 
following the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission'sDirector’s decision. The SecretaryCity Clerk 
shall set the appeal for hearing on the agenda On for the next regular or specialavailable meeting  of the 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, or otherwise within a time frame needed to comply with 
all applicable state or federal laws date after the appeal period lapses, or as soon as reasonably feasible 
thereafter, the City Council shall hold a de novo public hearing to consider and act on the application in 
accordance with the required findings for the project. Appeals from an approval will not be permitted to 
Commented [SH14]:  Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
566 of 734

--- page 567 ---
the extent that the appeal is based on environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all 
applicable FCC regulations.  The Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall review the appeal de 
novo, with the appellant having the burden of proof to establish the basis for seeking a reversal of the 
Director’s decision, and issue a decision at the hearing. The decision of the Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission shall be final and not subject to any further administrative appeals.
17.10.080 STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
(a) Standard Conditions Adopted by City Council Resolution. The City Council may, either on its own 
motion or upon a recommendation from the Director, adopt by resolution standard conditions of 
approval for wireless facilities subject to this Chapter. All wireless facilities, whether approved by the 
approval authority Director or deemed approved or deemed granted by law shall be automatically 
subject to all such standard conditions of approval as may be adopted in a resolution by the City 
Councilas provided in Appendix C of the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
(b) Modifications to Standard Conditions. The approval authorityDirector (or the appellate authority 
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend any 
standard conditions of approval on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate to protect 
and promote the public health, safety and welfare, allow for the proper operation of the approved 
wireless facility, maintain compliance with applicable laws and/or to advance the goals or policies in the 
General Plan and any specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and/or this Chapter.
17.10.090 REVOCATION; ABANDONMENT.
(a) Revocation. Any wireless permit, City pole license, or other authorized use of the public right-of-way 
granted under this Chapter may be revoked or modified for cause in accordance with the provisions of 
this Section.
(1) Revocation proceedings may be initiated by the Director.
(2) Action. The Director shall act on the proposed revocation after the time for any appeal has lapsed.
(3) Required Findings. The Director may revoke or modify the permit, City pole license, or right to use, if 
it makes any of the findings provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
567 of 734

--- page 568 ---
(4) Notice of Action. The Director shall issue a written determination of revocation and mail the 
determination to the permittee within the timeframe provided in the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements.
(5)    A permittee whose permit or right has been revoked may have the revocation reviewed, upon 
written appeal to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission as set forth in this Chapter.
(b) Abandonment. Wireless facilities no longer used to provide service shall be removed by the last 
known owner of record of such facility, at the sole cost of said owner and to the satisfaction of the City.
17.10.090 SITE LOCATION GUIDELINES.
(a) Preferred Locations. When evaluating compliance with this Chapter, the approval authority will take 
into account whether any or more preferred locations are technically feasible and potentially available. 
All applicants for a minor wireless permit or major wireless permit must propose new wireless facilities 
in locations within the public rights-of-way according to the following preferences, ordered from most 
preferred to least preferred:
(1) manufacturing districts;
(2) transportation corridor or transit-oriented development districts;
(3) executive districts;
(4) central business districts;
(5) commercial districts;
(6) agricultural and open space districts;
(7) shoreline districts;
(8) residential districts with multi-family residential uses;
568 of 734

--- page 569 ---
(9) residential districts with single family residential uses.
(b) Preferred Support Structures. When evaluating compliance with this Chapter, the approval authority 
will take into account whether any or more preferred support structures are technically feasible and 
potentially available. All applicants for a minor wireless permit or major wireless permit must propose 
new wireless facilities on support structures within the public rights-of-way according to the following 
preferences, ordered from most preferred to least preferred:
(1) new facilities on streetlights or traffic signals;
(2) new facilities on other existing support structures;
(3) new facilities on replacement support structures;
(4) collocations on existing support structures;
(5) collocations on replacement support structures;
(6) new facilities on new support structures.
17.10.100 DESIGN REGULATIONS.
(a) Generally Applicable Design Regulations. All new wireless facilities and collocations, modifications or 
other changes to existing wireless facilities not covered under Section 6409 must conform to the 
generally applicable design regulations in this Section and the design and engineering standards adopted 
by the Director of Public Works.
(1) General Concealment. All wireless facilities must be concealed to the maximum extent feasible with 
design elements and techniques that mimic or blend with the underlying support structure, surrounding 
environment and adjacent uses and should promote attractive, harmonious, and economic use of 
property, buildings, civic facilities, and conform with an preserve the overall aesthetics and character of 
City neighborhoods. In addition, wireless facilities may not unreasonably subject the public use, for any 
Commented [SH15]:  Moved to Design Standards.
Commented [SH16]:  Compliance with design standards 
already mentioned in 17.10.050 above.
569 of 734

--- page 570 ---
purpose including expressive or aesthetic purposes, to inconvenience, discomfort, trouble, annoyance, 
hindrance, impediment or obstruction.
(A) Undergrounded Equipment. To conceal the equipment to the maximum degree feasible, applicants 
must install all equipment (other than the antenna, antenna supports, ancillary wires, cables and any 
electric meter) underground in any area in which the existing utilities are not primarily located above 
ground. In all other areas, applicants shall install all equipment (other than the antenna, antenna 
supports, ancillary wires, cables and any electric meter) underground when the approval authority finds 
that the above-ground equipment would unreasonably interfere with the public's ability to use the right-
of-way for uses that include without limitation travel, social, expressive and/or aesthetic uses. When 
making a determination on whether to require undergrounded equipment, the approval authority shall 
take into account whether and to what extent any other above-ground utilities exist near the proposed 
site. Mere additional expense to install and maintain an underground equipment enclosure does not 
exempt an applicant from this requirement.
(B) Pole-Mounted Equipment. All pole-mounted equipment must be installed as close to the pole as 
technically and legally feasible to minimize the overall visual profile. All pole-mounted equipment and 
required or permitted signage must face toward the street or otherwise placed to minimize visibility 
from adjacent sidewalks and structures. All cables, wires and other connectors must be routed through 
conduits within pole whenever possible, and all external conduits, conduit attachments, cables, wires 
and other connectors must be concealed from public view to the extent feasible. Equipment mounted 
below any streetlight must not interfere with the illumination provided to the public rights-of-way from 
such streetlight.
(C) Ground-Mounted Equipment. In general, the City strongly disfavors all ground-mounted equipment. 
To the extent that the equipment cannot be placed underground or mounted on the pole, applicants 
may be permitted to install ground-mounted equipment in a location that does not obstruct pedestrian 
or vehicular traffic. All ground-mounted equipment must be placed in the least conspicuous location 
available within a reasonable distance from the pole and/or be installed within an existing or 
replacement street feature including, without limitation, bus stop shelters, trash bins, benches, kiosks, 
advertisement panels or other street furniture to conceal the equipment. The approval authority may 
condition approval on new or enhanced landscaping to conceal ground-mounted equipment. Ground-
mounted cabinets installed on residential frontage are strongly disfavored.
(2) Overall Height. Wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way may not exceed either (i) the minimum 
separation from supply lines required by CPUC General Order 95, as may be amended or superseded, 
plus four feet or (ii) four feet above the height of the existing support structure. Legally required 
lightning arresters and beacons shall be included when calculating the height of facilities.
570 of 734

--- page 571 ---
(3) Overall Volume. All above ground accessory equipment associated with the proposed wireless facility 
cannot exceed 17 cubic feet in volume.
(4) Noise. Wireless facilities and all accessory equipment and transmission equipment must comply with 
all noise regulations and shall not exceed, either individually or cumulatively, the applicable ambient 
noise level in the subject zoning district. The approval authority may require the applicant to incorporate 
appropriate noise-baffling materials and/or strategies whenever necessary to avoid any ambient noise 
from equipment reasonably likely to exceed the applicable level.
(5) Landscaping. All wireless facilities must include landscape features and a landscape maintenance 
plan when proposed to be placed in a landscaped area. The approval authority may require additional 
landscape features to screen the wireless facility from public view, avoid or mitigate potential adverse 
impacts on adjacent properties or otherwise enhance the concealment required under this Section. All 
plants proposed or required must be native and/or drought-resistant.
(6) Site Security Measures. Wireless facilities may incorporate reasonable and appropriate site security 
measures, such as locks and anti-climbing devices, to prevent unauthorized access, theft or vandalism. 
All wireless facilities shall be constructed from graffiti-resistant materials. The approval authority may 
require additional concealment elements as the approval authority finds necessary to blend the security 
measures and other improvements into the natural and/or built environment. The approval authority 
shall not approve barbed wire, razor ribbon, electrified fences or any similar security measures.
(7) Backup Power Sources. The approval authority may not approve permanent backup power sources 
within the public rights-of-way.
(8) Lights. Wireless facilities may not include exterior lights other than as may be required under FAA, 
FCC, other applicable governmental regulations or applicable pole owner policies related to public or 
worker safety. All exterior lights permitted or required to be installed must be installed in locations and 
within enclosures that mitigates illumination impacts on other properties to the maximum extent 
feasible. Any lights associated with the electronic equipment shall be appropriately shielded from public 
view. The provisions in this subsection shall not be interpreted to prohibit installations on street lights or 
the installation of luminaires on new poles when required by the approval authority.
(9) Signage; Advertisements. All wireless facilities must include signage that accurately identifies the 
equipment owner/operator, the owner/operator's site name or identification number and a toll-free 
number to the owner/operator's network operations center. Wireless facilities may not bear any other 
signage or advertisements unless expressly approved by the City, required by law or recommended 
571 of 734

--- page 572 ---
under existing and future FCC or other United States governmental agencies for compliance with RF 
emissions regulations.
(10) Future Collocations and Equipment. To the extent feasible and aesthetically desirable, all new 
wireless facilities should be designed and sited in a manner that accommodates potential future 
collocations and equipment installations that can be integrated into the proposed wireless facility or its 
associated structures with no or negligible visual changes to the outward appearance. The approval 
authority may waive the requirements in this Section when the approval authority determines future 
collocations at a proposed wireless facility would be aesthetically undesirable.
(11) Utilities. All cables and connectors for telephone, primary electric and other similar utilities must be 
routed underground to the extent feasible in conduits large enough to accommodate future collocated 
wireless facilities. To the extent feasible, undergrounded cables and wires must transition directly into 
the pole base without any external doghouse. Meters, panels, disconnect switches and other associated 
improvements must be placed in inconspicuous locations to the extent possible. The approval authority 
shall not approve new overhead utility lines or service drops merely because compliance with the 
undergrounding requirements would increase the project cost. Microwave or other wireless backhaul is 
discouraged when it would involve a separate and unconcealed antenna.
(12) Compliance with Laws. All wireless facilities must be designed and sited in compliance with all 
applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations, rules, restrictions and conditions, which includes 
without limitation the California Building Standards Code, Americans with Disabilities Act, General Plan 
and any applicable specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and any conditions or restrictions in any 
permit or other governmental approval issued by any public agency with jurisdiction over the project.
(13) Public Safety. All wireless facilities shall not interfere with access to a fire hydrant, fire station, fire 
escape, water valve, underground vault, valve housing structure or any other public health or safety 
facility. No person shall install, use or maintain any facilities, which in whole or in part rest upon, in or 
over any public right-of-way, when such installation, use or maintenance endangers or is reasonably 
likely to endanger the safety of persons or property, or when such site or location is used for public 
utility purposes, public transportation purposes or other governmental use, or when such facilities 
unreasonably interfere with or unreasonably impede the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic including 
any legally parked or stopped vehicle, the ingress into or egress from any residence or place of business, 
the use of poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes, permitted sidewalk dining, permitted 
street furniture or other objects permitted at or near the location where the wireless facilities are 
located.
(b) Facilities on Existing Support Structures. All wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way must be 
installed on existing above-ground structures (such as light standards or utility poles) whenever possible 
572 of 734

--- page 573 ---
and aesthetically desirable. The approval authority shall not approve any wireless facility proposed to be 
installed on a traffic control pole unless the approval authority finds, in the approval authority's 
discretion, that the traffic control pole has sufficient capacity to support the wireless facility. Wireless 
facilities shall not be installed on existing decorative street light standards.
(c) Facilities on Replacement Support Structures. Existing above-ground structures may be replaced with 
structurally hardened, fitted or reinforced support structures so long as the replacement structure is, in 
the approval authority's discretion, substantially similar to the existing structure to be replaced. Unless 
an applicant can demonstrate that the installation of a steel pole is not feasible or the approval 
authority determines that a wood pole is needed to match the existing poles in the vicinity, new wood 
poles shall only be allowed to replace existing wood poles.
(d) Facilities on New Support Structures. The approval authority shall not approve any new, non-
replacement support structures unless: (1) the applicant demonstrates that above-ground support 
structures within 500 feet from the proposed site location either do not exist or are not technically 
feasible or potentially available to the applicant; or (2) the approval authority specifically finds that a 
new, non-replacement support structure would be more aesthetically desirable and consistent with the 
objectives in the General Plan and any applicable specific plan, the San Mateo Municipal Code and this 
Chapter than installations on existing structures near the project site. The approval authority shall have 
the discretion to require that any new support structure must be: (a) concealed as decorative street 
furniture and/or (b) a streetlight that conforms to the City's streetlight standards and specifications, 
which the City shall maintain for street illumination and public safety purposes.
(e) Administrative Design and Engineering Standards and Application Requirements. The Director may 
develop, and from time to time amend, design and engineering standards and application requirements 
consistent with the generally applicable design regulations to clarify the aesthetic and public safety goals 
and standards in this Chapter for City staff, applicants and the public. In the event that a conflict arises 
between the design regulations adopted under Section 17.10.100 and the administrative design and 
engineering standards adopted under this Section 17.10.100.(e), the design regulations under Section 
17.10.100 shall control.
17.10.1010 TEMPORARY WIRELESS FACILITIES.
(a) General Requirements for Temporary Wireless Facilities. Except as provided in this Section, the 
requirements, procedures and standards in this section shall be applicable to all applications for a 
temporary wireless permit for a temporary wireless facility.
(1) Applications for Temporary Wireless Facilities. The Director shall not approve any temporary wireless 
facility subject to a temporary wireless permit except upon a duly filed application consistent with this 
Commented [SH17]:  Moved to Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
573 of 734

--- page 574 ---
Section and any other written application requirements or procedures the Director may publish in any 
publicly-stated format. Applicants for a temporary wireless permit must submit, at a minimum: (1) a 
temporary wireless permit application on the most current form prepared by the Department; (2) the 
applicable fee for the application; (3) a site plan that shows the proposed temporary wireless facility and 
its equipment, physical dimensions and placement on the proposed site relative to property lines and 
existing structures; (4) an RF compliance report in accordance with the City's requirements; and (5) an 
insurance certificate and endorsements as required by the City  for general commercial liability that 
names the City as an additional insured, includes verifying coverage for the time period in which the 
temporary wireless facility will be placed and a carries at least $1,000,000 in coverage per occurrence. 
Applications must be submitted in person to the Director unless the Director grants written consent to 
receive an application by mail or electronic means. No pre-submittal conference or appointment is 
required for a temporary wireless permit application.
(2) Administrative Review for Temporary Wireless Facilities. After the Director receives a duly filed 
application for a temporary wireless permit, the Director shall review the application for completeness. 
After the Director deems the application complete, the Director shall review the application for 
conformance with the required findings in this Section and render a written decision to the applicant. 
Any denials must include the reasons for the denial. The review shall be administrative in nature and 
shall not require notice or a public hearing.
(3) Required Findings for Temporary Wireless Facilities. The Director may approve or conditionally 
approve a temporary wireless permit for a temporary wireless facility only when the Director finds all of 
the following:
(A) the proposed temporary wireless facility will not exceed 50 feet in overall height above ground level; 
and
(B) the proposed temporary wireless facility will be placed as far away from adjacent property lines as 
possible, or otherwise in a location that will be least likely to cause adverse impacts on adjacent 
properties; and
(C) any excavation or ground disturbance associated with the temporary facility will not exceed two feet 
below grade; and
(D) the proposed temporary wireless facility will be compliant with all generally applicable public health 
and safety laws and regulations, which includes without limitation compliance with maximum 
permissible exposure limits for human exposure to RF emissions established by the FCC; and
574 of 734

--- page 575 ---
(E) the proposed temporary wireless facility will not create any nuisance or violate any noise limits 
applicable to the proposed location; and
(F) the proposed temporary wireless facility will be identified with a sign that clearly identifies the (i) site 
operator, (ii) the operator's site identification name or number and (iii) a working telephone number 
answered 24 hours per day, seven days per week by a live person who can exert power-down control 
over the antennas; and
(G) the proposed temporary wireless facility will be removed within 30 days after the Director grants the 
temporary wireless permit, or such longer time as the Director finds reasonably related to the 
applicant's need or purpose for the temporary wireless facility; and
(H) the applicant has not been denied a use permit for any permanent wireless facility in the same or 
substantially the same location within the previous 365 days.
(4) Appeals for Temporary Wireless Facilities. Any applicant may appeal the Director's written decision 
to deny an application for a temporary wireless permit. The written appeal together with any applicable 
appeal fee must be tendered to the City within ten days from the Director's written decision, and must 
state in plain terms the grounds for reversal and the facts that support those grounds. The City Manager 
shall be the appellate authority for all appeals from the Director's written decision to deny a temporary 
wireless permit. The City Manager shall review the application de novo; provided, however, that the City 
Manager's decision shall be limited to only whether the application should be approved or denied in 
accordance with the provisions in this Chapter and any other applicable laws. The City Manager shall 
issue a written decision that contains the reasons for the decision, and such decision shall be final and 
not subject to any further administrative appeals.
(b) Temporary Wireless Facilities for Emergencies. Temporary wireless facilities may be placed and 
operated within the City without a temporary wireless permit only when a duly authorized federal, 
state, county or City official declaresdetermines an emergency exists within a region that includes the 
City in whole or in part. The applicant must still obtain all other permits and regulatory approvals as may 
be required by any other federal, state or local government agencies, which includes without limitation 
other any other permits and/or approvals issued by other City departments or divisions. Any temporary 
wireless facilities placed pursuant to this Section must be removed within 15thirty calendar days after 
the date the emergency is lifted by a duly authorized federal, state, county or City official. Any person or 
entity that places temporary wireless facilities pursuant to this Ssection must send a written notice that 
identifies the site location and person responsible for its operation to the Director as soon as reasonably 
practicable.
575 of 734

--- page 576 ---
17.10.120 AMORTIZATION OF NONCONFORMING WIRELESS FACILITIES.
Any non-conforming wireless facilities in existence at the time this Chapter becomes effective must be 
brought into conformance with this Chapter in accordance with the amortization schedule in this 
Section. As used in this section, the "fair market value" will be the construction costs listed on the 
building permit or application for the subject wireless facility and the "minimum years" allowed will be 
measured from the date on which this Chapter becomes effective.
Fair Market Value on Effective Date
Minimum Years Allowed
Less than $50,000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5
$50,000 to $500,000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10
Greater than $500,000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15
The Director may grant a written extension to a date certain when the wireless facility owner shows: (1) 
a good faith effort to cure non-conformance; (2) the application of this section would violate applicable 
laws; or (3) extreme economic hardship would result from strict compliance with the amortization 
schedule. Any extension must be the minimum time period necessary to avoid such extreme economic 
hardship. The Director may not grant any permanent exemption from this section.
Nothing in this section is intended to limit any permit term to less than ten (10) years. In the event that 
the amortization required in this section would reduce the permit term to less than 10 years for any 
permit granted on or after January 1, 2007, then the minimum years allowed will be automatically 
extended by the difference between ten (10) years and the number of years since the City granted such 
permit. Nothing in this section is intended or may be applied to prohibit any collocation or modification 
covered under 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a) on the basis that the subject wireless facility is a legal nonconforming 
wireless facility.
17.10.1310 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SECTION 6409 APPROVALS.
(a) Applicability. This Section applies to all requests for approval to collocate, replace or remove 
transmission equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the public rights-of-way 
submitted pursuant to Section 6409. However, theFor all such requests, the applicant may voluntarily 
elect toshall  seek a major or minor wireless permit under Section 17.10.0430(a), and except for the 
notice requirements in Section 17.10.050(d), comply with all other requirements in this Chapter and any 
special Section 6409 requirements as provided in the Design Standards and Application Requirements.
(b) Additional Section 6409 Definitions. In addition to the definitions in Section 17.10.020, the 
abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in this Section will have the following meanings assigned 
to them unless context indicates otherwise. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this Ssection will have 
the meanings assigned to them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not 
Commented [SH18]:  Nonconforming Wireless Facilities 
section covered in Design Standards and Application 
Requirements.
576 of 734

--- page 577 ---
defined therein, will have their ordinary meanings. In the event that any definition assigned to any 
phrase, term or word in this Ssection conflicts with any federal or state-mandated definition, the federal 
or state-mandated definition will control.
(1) "eligible facilities request" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(3), as may 
be amended.
(12) "eligible support structure" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.610040001(b)(4), 
as may be amended.
(23) "existing" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.610040001(b)(45), as may be 
amended.
(4) "site" means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.40001(b)(6), as may be amended.
(3) “Section 6409 request” means all requests for approval to collocate, replace or remove transmission 
equipment at an existing wireless tower or base station located in the public rights-of-way submitted 
pursuant to Section 6409.
(54) "substantial change" or “substantially change” means the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 
1.610040001(b)(7), as may be amended.
(c) Required Approval. Any request to collocate, replace or remove transmission equipment at an 
existing wireless tower or base station located in the public right-of-way submitted with a written 
request for approval under Section 6409 as indicated in the application form, shall require approval of a 
wireless permit under the general standards and procedures of this Chapter, unless specified otherwise 
or excepted, as well as any additional Section 6409 special provisions as provided in this Section and the 
Design Standards and Application Requirements. an administrative approval in such form determined by 
the Director consistent with all valid and enforceable terms and conditions of the underlying permit or 
other prior regulatory authorization for the tower or base station (each amendment a "section 6409 
approval"). Each section 6409 approval shall be subject to the Director's approval, conditional approval 
or denial without prejudice pursuant to the standards and procedures in this Section. However, the 
applicant may voluntarily elect to seek a major or minor wireless permit subject to the general standards 
and procedures in this Chapter.
(d) Decisions; Appeals.
577 of 734

--- page 578 ---
(1) Administrative Review. The approval authority shall administratively review a complete and duly filed 
application for a section 6409 approval, and may act on such application without prior notice or a public 
hearing.
(2) Decision Notices. Within five days after the approval authority acts on an application for a section 
6409 approval or before the FCC Shot Clock expires (whichever occurs first), the approval authority shall 
send a written notice to the applicant. In the event that the approval authority denies the application, 
the written notice to the applicant must contain: (1) the reasons for the decision; (2) a statement that 
denial will be without prejudice; and (3) instructions for how and when to file an appeal.
(3) Additional Required Findings for Section 6409 Request Approval. The approval authorityDirectorcity 
staff may approve or conditionally approve a wireless permit application forany application for a 
sSection 6409 approvalrequest when the approval authorityDirectorcity staff finds that the proposed 
project meets the approval requirements in this Chapter and the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements, as well as the following additional required findings:
 
(1A) involves collocation, removal or replacement of transmission equipment on an existing wireless 
tower or base station;
(2B) does not substantially change the physical dimensions of the existing wireless tower or base 
station; and
(3C) remains in compliance with all applicable FCC RF standards.
(4) Criteria for Denial without Prejudice. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Chapter, and 
consistent with all applicable federal laws and regulations, the approval authoritycity staffDirector may 
deny without prejudice any application for a Ssection 6409 approvalrequest when the approval 
authoritycity staffDirector finds that the proposed project:
(A) does not meet the findings required in Section 17.10.1130(d)(3);
(B) involves the replacement of the entire eligible support structure; or
Commented [SH19]:  Discussed in Design Standards and 
Application Requirements.
578 of 734

--- page 579 ---
(C) violates any legally enforceable law, regulation, rule, standard or permit condition 
reasonably related to public health or safety.
(5) Conditional Approvals. Subject to any applicable limitations in federal or state law, nothing in this 
Section is intended to limit the approval authority's authority to conditionally approve an application for 
a section 6409 approval to protect and promote the public health and safety.
(e6) Appeals. Any applicant may appeal the approval authority'scity staffDirector’s written decision to 
deny without prejudice an application for Ssection 6409 approvalrequest to the Director of Public Works 
within five (5) calendar days of the notice of decisionin accordance with Section 17.10.070(f). The 
written appeal together with any applicable appeal fee must be tendered to the City Clerk within fiveten 
calendar days from the city staff’s approval authority's written decision and must state in plain terms 
the grounds for reversal and the facts that support those grounds. The Director of Public WorksCity 
Manager shall be the appellate authority for all appeals from the city staff’sapproval authority's written 
decision to deny without prejudice an application for section 6409 approval. The Public Works 
DirectorCity Manager shall review the application de novo; provided, however, that the Public Works 
Director’sCity Manager's decision shall be limited to only whether the application should be approved or 
denied in accordance with the provisions in this Section and any other applicable laws. The Director of 
Public Works City Manager shall issue a written decision that contains the reasons for the decision, and 
such decision shall be final and not subject to any further administrative appeals.
17.10.120 REVIEW OF ORDINANCE. 
Wireless communications technology is currently subject to rapid change. Innovations may render the 
need for specific sections of this Chapter to be reviewed and revised. The City Council may amend this 
Chapter or its rules and policies by resolution after a change to the FCC’s regulations or standards, or 
any applicable state or federal laws.
579 of 734

--- page 580 ---
a city of San Mateo

rVee

WORKS puaeee Works Departement

www cityofsanmateo.org
c



--- page 581 ---
Table of Contents 
 
Chapter 1 
Background and Purpose.................................................................................... 1 
Chapter 2 
Site Location, Pole Selection, & Design Standards .............................................. 3 
Chapter 3 
Application Process and Requirements .............................................................. 7 
Chapter 4 
Installations on Streetlight Poles ....................................................................... 14 
Chapter 5 
Installations on Utility Poles .............................................................................. 21 
Chapter 6 
Installations of Freestanding Poles .................................................................... 26 
Chapter 7 
Section 6409 Approvals ..................................................................................... 35 
Chapter 8 
Non-Conforming Wireless Facilities ................................................................... 36 
 
Appendix .............................................................................................................................. 37 
App A 
Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application 
App B 
Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application Checklist  
App C 
Standard Conditions of Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities  
 
 
581 of 734

--- page 582 ---
List of Figures 
 
Figure 4.1 - Unacceptable Installation on Streetlight Pole 
Figure 4.2 – Acceptable Design on Streetlight Replacement Pole 
Figure 4.3 – Acceptable Design on Streetlight Foundation Replacement (Existing Pole)  
Figure 5.1 - Unacceptable Installations on Utility Poles 
Figure 5.2 – Acceptable Designs on Utility Poles 
Figure 6.1 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Spacing Radius 
Figure 6.2 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Amenity Zone 
Figure 6.3 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Sight-Line Requirements 
Figure 6.4 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Location between Property Lines 
Figure 6.5 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Commercial Area 
 
List of Tables 
 
Table 4.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Streetlight Poles 
Table 4.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Streetlight Poles  
Table 5.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Utility Poles 
Table 5.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Utility Poles 
Table 6.1 – Design Standards For Installations of Freestanding Poles 
Table 6.2 – Procedures For Freestanding Poles 
Table 7.1 – Procedures For Section 6409 Approvals 
 
582 of 734

--- page 583 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this document, the Design Standards and Application Requirements, is to establish requirements 
and design standards for installing wireless communication facilities in the City of San Mateo’s right-of-way 
(ROW).  The City of San Mateo seeks to permit wireless carriers to install wireless communications facilities, 
within the public right-of-way, in order to provide cellular coverage and capacity throughout the City, while 
ensuring facilities are well-maintained and do not 
significantly detract from City streetscapes. 
 
The City does not regulate the technologies 
wireless carriers use, but it does have certain 
powers to regulate the time, place, manner and 
aesthetics of wireless communications facilities.  
These design standards and requirements are 
intended to convey design preferences and 
application requirements.   
 
However, the City recommends and prefers that wireless carriers avoid pole locations where equipment would 
be in front of architecturally significant features, or in locations where they would have visual impacts of 
significance, such as residential neighborhoods, near schools and parks. 
 
Wireless providers should be made aware of the City’s preference for installation of wireless facilities on City 
owned streetlights, due to the improved aesthetic qualities of these facilities.  Wireless providers shall work 
with the City to establish a license agreement for the use of City owned streetlights. Secondly, the City 
recommends and prefers installation in areas not zoned residential, as well as near schools or parks. Residential 
areas should be considered as the last option. 
 
These requirements are meant to provide a general overview of the procedures and requirements for 
installation of wireless communications facilities on both City owned and utility poles located within the public 
right of way.  Additional conditions, information and/or procedures may be necessary based on the 
circumstances, project scope and the location being proposed by the applicant, or as deemed necessary by the 
City.   
 
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, “Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way” was 
adopted by City Council in 2021 (hereinafter the “Code”).  The abbreviations, phrases, terms and words used in 
these Design Standards and Application Requirements will have the same meanings assigned to them in Chapter 
17.10 of the Code. Undefined phrases, terms or words in this document will have the meanings assigned to 
them in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as may be amended from time to time, and, if not defined therein, will have their 
ordinary meanings. If there are any discrepancies between the standards and requirements in this document 
and the Code, the Code shall prevail. 
 
The applicant or its successors shall comply fully with all conditions specified in this document, or as modified 
by the Director of Public Works.  Failure to comply with any condition shall constitute grounds for revocation of 
an applicable permit or license.  In the event that radio frequency (RF) emissions for the site exceed Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) standards, the applicant will be required to immediately cease and desist 
The purpose of this document is to 
establish requirements for 
installing wireless facilities in the 
City of San Mateo’s right-of-way. 
1 BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE   
583 of 734

--- page 584 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 2 
 
 
 
operation of the facility until such time that the violation is corrected to the satisfaction of the Director of Public 
Works. 
 
Any carrier/provider authorized by the City to operate a specific wireless communications facility installation 
may assign the operation of the facility to another carrier licensed by the California Public Utilities Commission 
(CPUC) and FCC for that radio frequency provided that such transfer is made known to the City in advance of 
such operation, and all conditions of approval for the subject installation are carried out by the new 
carrier/provider. 
 
Below are requirements to aid wireless communications providers in planning facility locations and compiling 
the necessary information to obtain a Wireless Permit as provided in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10 
“Wireless Communications Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way”. Wireless communications providers are also 
directed to review and comply with all other requirements as provided in Chapter 17.10,  that can be found on 
the City’s website. 
 
Three different types of wireless facility infrastructure installations are permitted within San Mateo rights of 
way. These types include: 
 
1. Attachments to streetlight poles 
2. Attachments to utility poles and utility lines 
3. Freestanding wireless facility infrastructure 
 
An overview of each type is included on the following pages. 
 
 
584 of 734

--- page 585 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 3 
 
 
 
2 SITE LOCATION, POLE SELECTION, & DESIGN 
STANDARDS 
 
To aid in minimizing visual and aesthetic impacts, all wireless communications facilities shall be designed, 
installed and located based on the following design preferences and standards below. In instances where a 
facility is proposed for installation at a location or in a manner that is not the highest preference as listed below, 
the applicant shall make a factual showing that all higher preferences are technically infeasible: 
 
Site Location 
 
1. The preferred locations shall be installed in the following order from most preferred to least preferred: 
 
1) Manufacturing districts; 
2) Transportation corridor or transit-orientated development districts; 
3) Executive districts; 
4) Central business districts; 
5) Commercial districts; 
6) Agricultural and open space districts; 
7) Shoreline districts; 
8) Residential districts with multi-family residential uses; 
9) Residential districts with single-family residential uses. 
Applications that involve lesser-preferred locations may be approved so long as the applicant demonstrates by 
clear and convincing evidence in writing that any more preferred locations or structures within 500 feet from 
the proposed site would be technically infeasible. 
 
Pole Selection 
 
1. Wireless facilities should be installed on existing standard streetlights or utility poles whenever 
technically feasible.  If the application proposes a wireless facility on a new pole or structure, the 
applicant must identify all existing potential poles or support structures within 500 feet from the 
proposed site along the subject right-of-way that is available and technically feasible. The applicant must 
also demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence in writing that any of these identified existing poles 
or support structures within 500 feet from the proposed site would be technically infeasible, and/or that 
the new support structure is the only technical feasible option to the exclusion of any alternative or 
reasonable  combination of alternatives.  
 
2. If the applicant demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence in writing that the identified existing 
poles or support structures are not technically feasible, then the applicant may propose a new free-
standing pole. New free-standing poles shall be located outside of driveways and intersection sight lines. 
New free-standing poles shall be located near property corners or side property lines, and not directly 
in front of residences and businesses. 
 
585 of 734

--- page 586 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 4 
 
 
 
3. Wireless facilities shall not be located on non-standard, decorative streetlights, wooden streetlights or 
traffic signals. 
 
4. All new wireless facilities require a new encroachment permit and comply with applicable standards and 
specifications required by the City. 
 
Design Standards 
 
1. Least Obtrusive.  Proposed installations should be the least obtrusive possible with regard to 
appearance, size, and location.   If installations are available that are less obtrusive than those allowed 
by the City’s wireless communications facilities ordinance, applicants must use those installations unless 
the City determines that those installations are not feasible. 
 
2. Pole heights shall be minimized. The maximum height of any facilities mounted on an existing utility pole 
shall not exceed (i) the minimum separation from supply lines required by CPUC General Order 95 (GO 
95), as may be amended or superseded. Legally required lightning arresters and beacons shall be 
included when calculating the height of facilities. 
 
3. Obstruction of Views.  New wireless communications facilities installations shall not obstruct views from 
habitable living areas (such as bedrooms, balconies, living rooms) to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
4. Protection of Trees.  Wireless communications facilities shall not damage existing trees.  If pruning is 
required for the installation, a separate Tree Permit must be obtained from Parks and Recreation. 
 
5. Interference with City Facilities and Other Uses.  Proposed installations shall not cause any interference 
with:  (i) the operation of any City facilities or services, including, but not limited to, signs, banners, 
lighting, communication, parking meters, traffic signs or signals, etc.; (ii) any fire hydrants or water 
valves; (iii) access to any doors, gates, sidewalk doors, or other ingress and egress points to any building 
appurtenant to the rights-of-way; or (iv) access to any fire escape. 
 
6. Accessory Equipment.  Accessory equipment shall be located entirely on the pole in a vertical 
arrangement to the maximum extent feasible.  Accessory equipment shall not collectively exceed 17 
cubic feet in overall volume.  Accessory equipment contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
7. Ground Mounted Equipment.  Ground mounted equipment cabinets shall not be used, to the maximum 
extent possible.  Ground mounted equipment shall not collectively exceed 17 cubic feet in overall 
volume. If utilized, ground mounted equipment shall be placed in a location that does not obstruct 
pedestrian or vehicular traffic and shall be located in the least conspicuous location available within a 
reasonable distance from the pole. Ground mounted equipment should be installed within an existing 
or replacement street feature including, without limitation, bus stop shelters, trash bins, benches, kiosks, 
advertisement panels or other street furniture to conceal the equipment.   Ground mounted equipment 
contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
8. Cables, Wires and Connectors.  All cables, wires and other connectors shall be routed through conduits 
within a pole whenever possible, and all external conduits, conduit attachments, cables, wires and other 
connectors must be concealed from public view to the maximum extent feasible. 
586 of 734

--- page 587 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 5 
 
 
 
 
9. Lights.  Wireless facilities may not include exterior lights other than as may be required under Federal 
Aviation Administration (FAA), Federal Communications Commission (FCC), other applicable 
governmental regulations or applicable pole owner policies related to public or worker safety. All 
exterior lights permitted or required to be installed must be installed in locations and within enclosures 
that mitigates illumination impacts on other properties to the maximum extent feasible. Any lights 
associated with the electronic equipment shall be appropriately shielded from public view. Flashing 
lights shall be installed. 
 
10. Signage and Stickers. All wireless facilities must include signage that accurately identifies the equipment 
owner/operator, the owner/operator’s site name or identification number and a toll-free number to the 
owner/operator’s network operations center. Wireless facilities may not bear any other signage or 
advertisements unless expressly approved by the City, required by law or recommended under existing 
and future FCC or other United States governmental agencies for compliance with RF emissions 
regulations. RF notification signs shall be placed where appropriate, and not at pedestrian eye level, 
unless required by the FCC or other regulatory agencies.  Large repetitive warning stickers shall not be 
installed. 
 
11. Smart Meters.  Wireless facility designers shall use PG&E Smart Meters or flat-rate billing with no electric 
meter, if feasible.  
 
12. Noise.  Wireless facilities and all accessory equipment and transmission equipment must comply with all 
City noise control standards and regulations and shall not exceed, either individually or cumulatively, the 
applicable ambient noise level in the subject zoning district. The applicant shall incorporate appropriate 
noise-baffling materials and/or strategies whenever necessary to avoid any ambient noise from 
equipment reasonably likely to exceed the applicable level.  Fans shall not be utilized to the maximum 
extent possible. 
 
13. Antennas.  Antennas shall be placed at the top of the pole and shall be shrouded to the maximum extent 
feasible. 
 
14. Landscaping. All wireless facilities must include landscape features and a landscape maintenance plan 
when proposed to be placed in a landscaped area. The City may require additional landscape features to 
screen the wireless facility from public view, avoid or mitigate potential adverse impacts on adjacent 
properties or otherwise enhance the concealment. All plants proposed or required must be native 
and/or drought resistant. 
 
15. Site Security Measures. Wireless facilities may incorporate reasonable and appropriate site security 
measures, such as locks and anti-climbing devices, to prevent unauthorized access, theft or vandalism. 
All wireless facilities shall be constructed from graffiti-resistant materials. The City may require 
additional concealment elements as the approval authority finds necessary to blend the security 
measures and other improvements into the natural and/or built environment. The City shall not approve 
barbed wire, razor ribbon, electrified fences or any similar security measures. 
 
16. Backup Power Sources. Permanent backup power sources within the public rights-of-way shall not be 
utilized. 
 
587 of 734

--- page 588 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 6 
 
 
 
17. Utilities. All cables and connectors for telephone, primary electric and other similar utilities must be 
routed underground to the extent feasible in conduits large enough to accommodate future collocated 
wireless facilities. To the extent feasible, undergrounded cables and wires must transition directly into 
the pole base without any external doghouse. Meters, panels, disconnect switches and other associated 
improvements must be placed in inconspicuous locations to the extent possible. The City shall not 
approve new overhead utility lines or service drops merely because compliance with the undergrounding 
requirements would increase the project cost. Microwave or other wireless backhaul is discouraged 
when it would involve a separate and unconcealed antenna. 
 
18. Public Safety. No wireless facilities shall interfere with access to a fire hydrant, fire station, fire escape, 
water valve, underground vault, valve housing structure or any other public health or safety facility. No 
wireless facility installation, use or maintenance shall endanger or shall be reasonably likely to endanger 
the safety of persons or property. No wireless facilities shall unreasonably interfere with or unreasonably 
impede the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic including any legally parked or stopped vehicle, the 
ingress into or egress from any residence or place of business, the use of poles, posts, traffic signs or 
signals, hydrants, mailboxes, permitted sidewalk dining, permitted street furniture or other objects 
permitted at or near the location where the wireless facilities are located. 
 
19. Replacement Pole Location. All replacement poles must: (1) be located as close to the removed pole as 
possible; (2) be aligned with the other existing poles along the public rights-of-way; and (3) be compliant 
with all applicable standards and specifications identified by or required by the City. 
 
20. Compliance with Applicable Laws. All wireless facilities shall be installed and maintained in compliance 
with all applicable laws, regulations, codes or other rules, which include, at a minimum, the Uniform 
Building, National Electrical Code, and all FCC rules for human exposure to RF emissions. All wireless 
facilities and their locations shall comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.  
 
 
 
588 of 734

--- page 589 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 7 
 
 
 
3 APPLICATION PROCESS AND REQUIREMENTS
 
 
Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff 
Prior to submittal of an application, applicants are encouraged to meet with City staff in order to present the 
scope, location, and types of poles utilized.  Applicants can ask questions regarding the permit application and 
checklist requirements.   This voluntary informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock 
to begin.   
 
Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting  
After meeting with City staff and prior to submittal of an application, applicants are encouraged to hold a 
community meeting for a proposed wireless facility.  This voluntary neighborhood meeting does not cause the 
FCC Shot clock to begin. 
 
The purpose of the neighborhood meeting is for the applicant to explain the proposal to the surrounding 
property owners and residents, and to receive their input. This meeting should accomplish three main goals:  
 
 Establishment of dialogue between the applicant and the surrounding property owners and residents.  
 Allow for project modification early in the process based on feedback. 
 Avoid further delays due to projects that may be inconsistent with the City’s standards.  
 
As the applicant, you host and conduct the meeting; Public Works staff may be present as a resource only.  
 
Public Works staff will work with the applicant to select a date, time, and location for the neighborhood meeting 
based on the following requirements: 
 
 Meetings should be held on Monday through Thursdays starting no earlier than 6:30 p.m. 
 Meetings should be held at City Hall or conducted virtually. 
 Meetings should be 1 to 2 hours maximum. 
 After 15 minutes, if there are no attendees, the meeting may be ended. 
 
Meetings cannot be held on the following dates: 
 
 Evenings of City Council or any City Commission meetings. Please check the City’s website at 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=60 
and 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=192 
for 
the 
City 
Council, 
Sustainability 
and 
Infrastructure Commission, Parks and Recreation Commission, Community Relations Commission, and 
Planning Commission meeting dates. 
 Legal holidays, common religious holidays or during the week of Thanksgiving and December 15th-
January 1st. 
 
Public Works staff will work with the applicant to coordinate a public notice for the community meeting.  
589 of 734

--- page 590 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 8 
 
 
 
The applicant is encouraged to bring presentation-sized graphics of the conceptual project plans, including an 
existing and proposed site plan and exterior elevations of all sides of the proposed facility, and a PowerPoint 
presentation. A mock-up of the proposed installation is highly recommended. The applicant is encouraged to 
record the meeting to aid in developing the meeting summary.  If recorded, applicant must post a notice at the 
meeting site that indicates the meeting is being recorded.  
 
All attendees shall sign in to ensure a complete record of attendees, including City staff and all members of the 
project team. Attendees shall be asked to provide their email and/or mailing address for future notices. A 
member of the applicant’s team must be dedicated to taking detailed notes from the meeting and prepare a 
Meeting Summary.  
 
The meeting agenda generally consists of the following: 
 
 The applicant will typically open the meeting by describing the purpose of the meeting and introducing 
the team members. Public Works staff will remain throughout the meeting to answer any questions 
regarding wireless facility standards and the application process. 
 The applicant will manage the remainder of the meeting. The City recommends that the applicant’s 
PowerPoint presentation on the proposed project should include a description of the purpose of the 
installation, the way the design has responded to various aesthetic issues and important design features. 
The applicant’s presentation team shall include the following staff:  project manager, RF engineer, area 
manager, technical staff, and dedicated staff for recording meeting notes. 
 After the formal presentation, the applicant may open the discussion to attendees, being available to 
answer questions or take comments.   If questions are raised related to the application process or City 
regulations that are more appropriately answered by City staff, he or she will answer those questions. 
 Once discussion has finished, the applicant will typically close the meeting by describing the next steps 
in the process. No official action may be taken by the City at any community meeting. 
 
The City requests that the applicant submit to the City a written summary of the meeting within seven (7) 
calendar days of the meeting. The Meeting Summary should include a list of attendees, the major issues raised, 
any questions and answers discussed during the meeting. Please send the draft meeting summary and the sign-
in sheet to Public Works staff who attended the meeting for final editing. The applicant is encouraged to email 
the meeting summary to all the meeting attendees who provided an email address.  
 
Application Submittal 
The applicant shall submit a complete, duly executed permit application using the Wireless Communications 
Facilities Permit Application Form attached hereto in Appendix A, which may be updated from time to time by 
the Director. The applicant shall comply with any additional instructions or requirements provided on the 
application form. 
 
The application shall include all required materials as listed in the Wireless Communications Facilities Permit 
Application Checklist attached hereto in Appendix B. The applicant shall also comply with the Application 
Requirements-Required Materials provided in Appendix B. 
 
590 of 734

--- page 591 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 9 
 
 
 
All applications, along with any required materials and deposits, must be submitted to the City at a pre-
scheduled appointment with City Staff. The City Staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with 
an appointment within five (5) working days after the City Staff receives a written request.  
 
Applications Deemed Withdrawn  
To promote efficient review and timely decisions, an application will be automatically deemed withdrawn by 
the applicant when the applicant fails to tender a substantive response to City Staff within 90 calendar days 
after City Staff deems the application incomplete in a subsequent written notice to the applicant after a prior 
written notice of incompleteness has been provided. The City Staff may, in its discretion, grant a written 
extension for up to an additional 30 calendar days when the applicant submits a written request prior to the 
90th day that shows good cause to grant the extension. Delays due to circumstances outside the applicant's 
reasonable control will be considered good cause to grant the extension. 
 
Notice Requirements For Wireless Permits (Section 6409 Applications are exempt from noticing 
requirements)[SMMC 17.10.050(d)] 
Within five (5) calendar days of submitting a wireless permit application, the applicant shall provide notice by 
first class US mail to all property owners and residents within a 500’ radius of the proposed project site.  In 
addition, the notice shall be posted in a minimum of three (3) locations near the project site.  The notices at a 
minimum shall contain the following: 
 
1. A general description of the project, improvements and other equipment to be constructed or installed, 
including the proposed site location, photo simulations, samples or renderings depicting the finished 
installation in context with the surrounding natural and built environment. 
2. Identify when construction, installation, excavation or other work would begin and end. 
3. The applicant’s name and contact information as provided to the City on the application. 
4. The contact name and information for the applicant’s representative. 
5. A statement that interested parties may submit comments regarding the project within five (5) calendar 
days of the notice, to the applicant, and instructions on how to do so. 
6. Include 
a 
link 
to 
the 
City’s 
Small 
Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage:   
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure.  Include language that, “Members of 
the public interested in receiving information  on application decisions should sign up for notifications 
on the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage.” 
7. A statement that interested parties may appeal any decision within five (5) calendar days of the Notice 
of Decision, and instructions on how to do so. 
8. A statement that, “The FCC does not allow appeals when based solely on the environmental effects from 
radio frequency emissions that are compliant with applicable FCC regulations and guidelines.” 
 
Notices shall be in English and other languages as deemed appropriate by the City. 
 
Applicant shall provide notification documentation to the City prior to approval of any permit.  Such 
documentation includes: 
 
1. A copy of the notice.  Notice shall be approved by City staff prior to mailing. 
2. Proof of notification such as an affidavit attesting that the notice was mailed to all property owners and 
residents within 500’ of the project site.  Proof shall include the method of delivery and a list of 
recipients. 
591 of 734

--- page 592 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 10 
 
 
 
3. A log of concerns, comments, questions, and/or actual responses from interested parties with 
information on the name of the persons and dates of the responses. 
Standard Conditions of Approval [SMMC 17.10.080] 
All wireless facilities, whether approved by the Director or deemed approved or deemed granted by law shall 
be automatically subject to all standard conditions of approval as provided in the Standard Conditions of 
Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities, attached hereto in Appendix C. 
 
Decision Notices to the Applicant [SMMC 17.10.070(e)] 
City staff shall provide written notice to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after acting on the application.  
If the application is denied, the notice shall include the reasons for the decision and instructions for filing an 
appeal. 
 
Notice of Decision to the Public [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
City staff shall post notice of the decision by the City with the appeal process on the Small Cell Infrastructure 
webpage 
on 
the 
same 
date 
as 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
 
The online posted notice shall include the following: 
1. Date of the posting and date by which appeals must be filed. 
2. Location of the site. 
3. Link to application materials. 
4. Directions for filing an appeal. 
5. Appellant’s name and contact information. 
 
Members of the public, including property owners and residents within 500’ of the project site, interested in 
receiving information on decisions on applications should sign up for notifications on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure webpage.  Notices to the property owners and residents within 500’ of the project site and others 
who have requested the notice of decision from the city shall be sent expeditiously and within one business day 
from the date of the decision on the application. Notice shall be sent electronically to the extent practicable. 
 
Peer and Independent Consultant Review [SMMC 17.10.060] 
The Director may, in its discretion, select and retain an independent consultant with specialized training, 
experience and/or expertise in telecommunications issues satisfactory to the Director in connection with any 
permit application.  
 
The Director may request an independent consultant review on any issue that involves specialized or expert 
knowledge in connection with wireless facilities deployment or permit applications for wireless facilities, which 
include without limitation: (a) permit application completeness and/or accuracy; (b) pre-construction planned 
compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (c) post-construction actual 
compliance with applicable regulations for human exposure to RF emissions; (d) whether and to what extent 
any technically feasible and/or potentially available alternative sites or concealment techniques may exist; (e) 
the applicability, reliability and/or sufficiency of any information, analyses or methodologies used by the 
applicant to reach any conclusions about any issue with the City's discretion to review; and (f) any other issue 
identified by the Director that requires expert or specialized knowledge.  The Director may request that the 
independent consultant prepare written reports, testify at public meetings, hearings and/or appeals and attend 
meetings with City staff and/or the applicant. 
 
592 of 734

--- page 593 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 11 
 
 
 
In the event that the Director elects to retain an independent consultant in connection with any permit 
application, the applicant shall be responsible for the reasonable costs in connection with the services provided. 
Before the independent consultant may perform any services, the applicant shall tender to the City a deposit in 
an amount equal to the estimated cost for the services to be provided, as determined by the Director. The 
Director may request additional deposits as reasonably necessary to ensure sufficient funds are available to 
cover the reasonable costs in connection with the independent consultant's services. In the event that the 
deposit exceeds the total costs for consultant's services, the Director shall promptly return any unused funds to 
the applicant after the wireless facility has been installed and passes a final inspection by the appropriate City 
official or his or her designee. In the event that the reasonable costs for the independent consultant's services 
exceed the deposit, the Director shall invoice the applicant for the balance. The City shall not issue any permit 
to any applicant with any unpaid deposit requests or invoices. 
 
Limited Exceptions for Personal Wireless Service Facilities [SMMC 17.10.070(d)] 
In the event that an applicant claims that strict compliance with SMMC Chapter 17.10 and these Design 
Standards and Application Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal 
wireless services, the Director may grant a limited exception from such requirements in accordance with the 
following: 
 
1.  Required Findings. The Director shall not grant any limited exception unless the applicant shows that:  
 
(A)  the proposed wireless facility qualifies as a "personal wireless service facility" as defined in 47 U.S.C. 
§ 332(c)(7)(C)(ii), as may be amended or superseded; and 
(B)  the applicant has provided the Director with a reasonable and clearly defined technical service 
objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility; and 
(C)  the applicant has provided the Director with a written statement that contains a detailed and fact-
specific explanation as to why the proposed wireless facility cannot be deployed in compliance with 
the applicable provisions in SMMC Chapter 17.10 and these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements; and 
(D)  the applicant has provided the Director with a meaningful comparative analysis with the factual 
reasons why all alternative locations and/or designs identified in the administrative record (whether 
suggested by the applicant, the City, public comments or any other source) are not technically 
feasible or potentially available to reasonably achieve the applicant's reasonable and clearly defined 
technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility; and 
(E)  the applicant has demonstrated to the Director that the proposed location and design is the least 
non-compliant configuration that will reasonably achieve the applicant's reasonable and clearly 
defined technical service objective to be achieved by the proposed wireless facility, which includes 
without limitation a meaningful comparative analysis into multiple smaller or less intrusive wireless 
facilities dispersed throughout the intended service area.  
 
2.  Limitations on Exceptions. Any limited exception shall be narrowly tailored to ensure that any deviations 
from the requirements in SMMC Chapter 17.10 or the Design Standards and Application Requirements 
are no greater than necessary to avoid an effective prohibition of the applicant's personal wireless 
services. Limited exceptions shall be based on the facts and circumstances of the applicant, its 
demonstrated technical service objectives at the time the exception is granted and the proposed 
wireless facility and shall not be deemed to establish any precedent for similar deviations for the same 
or any other applicant, location or wireless facility. 
 
593 of 734

--- page 594 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 12 
 
 
 
Appeals [SMMC 17.10.070(g)] (Section 6409 Applications are exempt from appeals by the public) 
The applicant or property owners/residents within a 500 foot radius of the proposed project site who received 
notice of an application, as provided in the Code, may appeal any decision to approve or deny an application for 
a Wireless Permit.  The appeals shall be filed with the Secretary of the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission within five (5) calendar days of the City’s Notice of Conditional Approval.  Appeals received after 
the five (5) calendar days will not be considered.  The appeal hearing shall be placed on the agenda for the next 
regular or special meeting of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission, or otherwise within a time frame 
needed to comply with all applicable state or federal laws. Written notice of the hearing date shall be provided 
to the appellant as soon as practicable and at least 3 calendar days prior to the hearing. 
 
An appeal shall include the following at a minimum in order to be considered: 
 
1. Location of the site being appealed. 
2. A written statement that contains a detailed and fact-specific description of the reason for the appeal 
with reference to specific Code or Design Standard violations. 
3. Appellant’s name and contact information. 
 
Important Note:  The FCC does not allow appeals if it is based on environmental effects from RF emissions 
that comply with all applicable FCC regulations. 
 
Appeals from an approval of an application will not be permitted to the extent that the appeal is based on 
environmental effects from RF emissions that comply with all applicable FCC regulations.  The Sustainability 
and Infrastructure Commission shall review the appeal de novo, with the appellant having the burden of proof 
to establish the basis for seeking a reversal of the Director’s decision, and issue a decision at the hearing. The 
decision of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission shall be final and not subject to any further 
administrative appeals.  The decision shall be posted on the City’s webpage on the same date as the decision is 
made. 
 
Revocation of Permits or Other Authorized Use 
Any wireless permit, City pole license, or other authorized use of the public right-of-way granted under SMMC 
Chapter 17.10 may be revoked or modified for cause in accordance with the following: 
 
1. Revocation proceedings may be initiated by the Director. 
 
2. Action. The Director shall act on the proposed revocation after the time for any appeal has lapsed. 
 
3. Required Findings.  The Director may revoke or modify the permit, City pole license, or right to use, if it 
makes any of the following findings: 
 
(A) 
The permittee obtained the approval by means of fraud or misrepresentation of a material fact; 
(B) 
The permittee substantially expanded or altered the use or structure beyond what is set forth in 
the permit or substantially changed the installation’s character; 
(C) 
The use in question has ceased to exist or has been suspended or abandoned; 
(D) 
Failure to comply with any condition of a permit issued; 
(E) 
Failure to comply with SMMC Chapter 17.10 and/or the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements; 
594 of 734

--- page 595 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 13 
 
 
 
(F) 
A substantive change of law affecting a utility’s authority to occupy or use the public right-of-way 
or the City’s ability to impose regulations relating to such occupation or use; 
(G) 
A facility’s interference with a City project; 
(H) 
A facility’s interference with vehicular or pedestrian use of the public right-of-way;  
Failure to make a safe and timely restoration of the public right-of-way; or 
(I) 
For permits approved for a wireless facility on a City pole, termination of the applicable master 
license agreement or revocation of a City-owned pole license. 
 
4. Notice of Action. The Director shall issue a written determination of revocation and mail the determination 
to the permittee within ten (10) calendar days of such determination. The decision shall be posted on the City’s 
webpage on the same date as the decision is made.  
 
595 of 734

--- page 596 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 14 
 
 
 
4 INSTALLATIONS  ON STREETLIGHT POLES 
The following are design requirements for installations on streetlight poles.  
 
 
Table 4.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Streetlight Poles 
Luminaire 
• Per San Mateo standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
Electric Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• All new electrical conduit shall be separate and enclosed in a braided sleeve.  
• Applicant shall survey and document all loads connected to circuit involved, including any 
non-streetlight load.  
• Circuit tracing shall be completed using proper circuit tracing equipment.  
• Applicant shall conduct load analysis to evaluate loading level and voltage drop on the entire 
circuit the meter is receiving power from. Maximum voltage drop allowed for the entire 
streetlighting circuit is 3% (cumulative). 
• Calculations shall be completed by an electrical engineer.  
• Reserve at minimum 40% of circuit load capacity (not breaker rating) for City’s use.   
• Replacement of light fixtures with LEDs is allowed to free up capacity in the circuit.  LED 
fixtures shall meet City standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
• Conductors shall be spliced at base of pole in pull box. If there is no existing pull box, 
installation of a new pull box will be required. 
• Grounding rod shall be located in the pull box. 
 
Communication/Backhaul 
Service 
• Applicant shall secure their own communication/backhaul arrangements independent of City 
facilities.  
• A utility encroachment permit for fiber optic installations will be required. 
 
Shroud 
• Antenna and Smart Meter shall be within a shroud, unless infeasible. 
Hand Holes 
• A hand hole shall be provided at the top of the pole to maintain fiber and electrical service 
for streetlights and future attachments.  
Color 
• Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing streetlight aesthetics. 
• Paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint. 
• Equipment cabinets shall be galvanized. 
 
Structural Analysis 
• Structural analysis shall be prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural 
engineer.  Certification that the pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design 
parameters shall be provided to the Public Works Department. The analysis shall comply with 
current building code standards.  The wireless facility shall be designed for a risk category IV. 
• All structural components of the pole, standard, base, equipment cabinet, couplers, anchor 
bolts, luminaires, antenna, shroud, and other attachments to be used shall be designed in 
accordance with AASHTO’s Standard Specifications for Structural Supports for Highway Signs, 
Luminaires, and Traffic Signals, TIA-222 rev G and ASCE 7-16 with IBC 2018 (or latest 
standard), plus amendment for other local conditions.  
• Any pole not meeting these requirements may not be used for a wireless facility installation 
or must be replaced. 
• Certification is required for replacement poles. 
 
Antenna 
• Antennas shall be shrouded if feasible. 
• Antennas shall be located at the top of the pole to the maximum extent feasible. 
 
596 of 734

--- page 597 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 15 
 
 
 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with a (1) RF warning 
sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. Facing to the street near 
the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch (maximum) plate with the provider’s name, 
location identifying information, and 24-hour emergency telephone number, and (3) No 
advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a sign must not 
change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• Pole number labels shall be installed if missing. 
Cables/Wiring 
• All cables shall be located inside the pole, labeled for identification and enclosed in a 
separate braided sleeve.  
• External conduit attachment to the pole is not permitted. 
• No wires or cables shall be visible on the exterior of the pole.  
• Splicing is permitted in the pull box at base of pole.. Splicing of small wiring to streetlight 
wiring in the pole is not permitted. If the pull box is not present, a new pull box will need to 
be installed, and conduit proved and rewired.  
• Any existing conduit that is not usable shall  be replaced with new conduit.  
• Foundations without conduit will need to have new conduit added to the existing foundation, 
or a new foundation installed in accordance with these Design Standards. 
• Fuses shall be located behind the hand hole or in the pull box. 
• Existing wires in pole must be removed before any drilling or welding takes place on pole. 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather resistant.  
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade or per 
PG&E’s standards. 
Equipment Cabinet 
• Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. 
• If required, fans shall not emit noise higher than City standards. 
• Passive louvers and/or other passive ventilation systems shall be primary means of 
temperature control. 
• Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and 
does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian or vehicular travel way. 
• Equipment cabinet contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
 
597 of 734

--- page 598 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 16 
 
 
 
Figure 4.1 - Unacceptable Installation on a Streetlight 
 
  
 
Antenna must include a smooth 
transition between pole and antenna 
if feasible 
Conduit, mounting bracket, and 
other hardware must be hidden or in 
a shroud 
All 
conduit, 
wires 
and 
other 
hardware shall be located internally 
within pole 
598 of 734

--- page 599 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 17 
 
 
 
Figure 4.2 – Acceptable Design on a Streetlight Replacement  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antennas are located at the top of 
the pole and have smooth transition 
between pole and antennas  
All 
conduit, 
wires 
and 
other 
hardware are  located internally 
within pole 
Accessory equipment is located 
entirely in a cabinet at base of pole 
599 of 734

--- page 600 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 18 
 
 
 
Figure 4.3 – Acceptable Design on a Streetlight Foundation Replacement (Existing Pole)  
 
 
 
 
Antennas are located at the top of 
the pole 
Accessary equipment is hidden by 
existing signage 
600 of 734

--- page 601 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 19 
 
 
 
Table 4.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Streetlight Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Master License Agreement.  Applicant executes a license agreement with the City for any City-owned poles 
in the public right-of-way.  To start the process for preparation of a license agreement, applicant shall pay 
required fee per current Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
2. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process. This 
voluntary informational meeting with City Staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
3. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within 500’ of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary neighborhood informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
 
Application 
4. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits application, checklist, required materials, and deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City Staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an 
appointment within five (5) working days after the City Staff receives a written request.  
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
5. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides notice  by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within a 500’ radius of proposed project 
and posts in at least three locations near the project site. 
6. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete.  If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review 
the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
7. Power Walks.  Applicant conducts power walks with City staff to determine point of electrical service 
connection.  This shall be shown on the plans when applicant resubmits. 
8. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
9. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the 
application is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
10. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
11. Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post the Notice of Decision with appeal process on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
12. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant's ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
Appeals 
13. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with the Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of Conditional 
Approval  If no appeals, project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public 
hearing with S&IC to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the 
appeal is denied by the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the 
project is denied and the applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Building Permit 
14. Building Permit.  Applicant applies for a Building Permit with the Building Division for PG&E release.  A 
separate fee shall apply. 
Encroachment 
Permit 
15. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
16. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
601 of 734

--- page 602 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 20 
 
 
 
Post 
Application 
17. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
18. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
602 of 734

--- page 603 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 21 
 
 
 
5 INSTALLATIONS ON UTILITY POLES 
The following are general specifications for installations on utility poles.  
 
Table 5.1 – Design Standards For Installations on Utility Poles 
 
 
Electric Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• All new electrical conduit shall be separate.  
 
Communication/Backhaul 
Service 
• Applicant shall secure their own communication/backhaul arrangements 
independent of City facilities.  
• A utility encroachment permit for fiber optic installations will be required. 
 
Shroud 
• Antenna and Smart Meter shall be within a shroud, unless infeasible. 
 
Color 
• Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing utility pole 
aesthetics. 
• All electrical equipment, boxes, and other appurtenances shall have an 
appropriate National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) rating for 
outdoor uses and provide adequate protection.  
• Paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint in accordance with NEMA standards. 
• Equipment cabinets shall be galvanized in accordance with NEMA standards. 
 
Pole Selection Site Analysis 
• If the applicant proposes a wireless facility on a new utility pole, the applicant must 
first identify all existing potential poles or support structures within 500 feet from 
the proposed site along the subject right-of-way that is available and technically 
feasible. The applicant must also demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence in 
writing that any of these identified existing poles or support structures within 500 
feet from the proposed site would be technically infeasible. 
 
Antenna 
• Antennas shall be shrouded if feasible. 
• Antennas shall be located at the top of the pole or strand-mounted to the 
maximum extent feasible. 
 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with (1)  a 
RF warning sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. 
Facing to the street near the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch 
(maximum) plate with the provider’s name, location identifying information, and 
24-hour emergency telephone number, and (3) No advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a 
sign must not change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• Pole number labels shall be installed if missing. 
 
Cables/Wiring 
• All cables shall be located inside a conduit painted to match the pole.  
• No wires or cables shall be visible on the exterior of the conduit to the maximum 
extent feasible. 
 
603 of 734

--- page 604 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 22 
 
 
 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather 
resistant.  
 
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade 
or per PG&E’s standards. 
 
Equipment Cabinet 
• Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. 
• If required, fans shall not emit noise higher than City standards. 
• Passive louvers and/or other passive ventilation systems shall be primary means 
of temperature control. 
• Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities Act of 
1990 and does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian or vehicular 
travel way. 
• Equipment cabinets contains associated equipment for non-antenna gear. 
 
Safety Zones 
• A safety zone is required per the latest CPUC GO 95 
 
Pole Owner 
• Applicant shall provide written authorization from the pole owner. 
• Authorization shall indicate that the pole is structurally sound for additional loads. 
 
 
 
604 of 734

--- page 605 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 23 
 
 
 
Figure 5.1 - Unacceptable Installations on Utility Poles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accessary equipment is not painted 
to match the wood pole 
Wires are not in a conduit 
Abrupt 
transition 
from 
pole 
to 
antenna 
605 of 734

--- page 606 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 24 
 
 
 
Figure 5.2 – Acceptable Designs on Utility Poles 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strand mounted wireless facility 
Wiring is located in a conduit 
Accessary equipment is painted to 
match the wood pole and shrouded 
606 of 734

--- page 607 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 25 
 
 
 
Table 5.2 – Procedures For Attachments to Utility Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process. This 
voluntary informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within a 500’ radius of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary neighborhood meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
 
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) calendar days after City Staff receives a written request. 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides  notice  by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within 500’ of proposed project and posts 
in at least three locations near the site. 
5. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
6. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
7. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the city deems that the application 
is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
8. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
9. Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post the Notice of Decision with appeal process on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
10. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
 
Appeals 
11. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of Conditional 
Approval.   If no appeals, the project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public 
hearing with S&IC to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the 
appeal is denied by the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the project 
is denied and the applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Encroachment 
Permit 
12. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  A 
separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
13. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
14. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA A.3 
and B.5. 
15. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
607 of 734

--- page 608 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 26 
 
 
 
6 INSTALLATIONS OF FREESTANDING POLES 
The following are general specifications for the installations of wireless facilities on new privately-owned 
freestanding poles.  
 
Table 6.1 – Design Standards for Installations of Freestanding Poles 
Ownership of Pole 
• Freestanding poles shall not be owned by the City and shall be owned by the 
applicant.  
  
Luminaire 
• Per San Mateo standards or as designated by the Director of Public Works. 
 
Electrical Service/Metering 
• Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
• Conductors shall be spliced at base of pole in pull box. If there is no existing pull box, 
installation of a new pull box will be required. 
• Grounding rod shall be located in the pull box. 
• Tie into an existing City electrical circuit is not allowed.  
 
Pole Type 
• Round, straight, galvanized steel. 
• Pole bases shall be sized to handle the listed equipment and all other 
equipment required by the owner of the freestanding pole. 
 
Shroud/Cover 
 
• All hardware shall be hidden. Only one equipment shroud, containing all required 
wireless facility equipment, shall be installed per pole. Anchor bolts shall either be 
hidden from view, preferred, or treated and painted to match the pole color. 
 
Color 
• Pole shall be galvanized in accordance with AASHTO M 111. 
• Equipment shall be painted to match existing pole aesthetics, paint shall be powder 
coated over zinc paint. Equipment cabinets shall still be galvanized. 
 
Pole Height 
• The pole height inclusive of all equipment shall not exceed 35 feet. 
 
Structural Analysis 
• Structural analysis shall be prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed 
structural engineer.  Certification that the pole foundation and attachments meet or 
exceed design parameters shall be provided to the Public Works Department. The 
analysis shall comply with current building code standards.  The wireless facility shall 
be designed for a risk category IV. 
• All structural components of the pole, standard, base, equipment cabinet, couplers, 
anchor bolts, luminaires, antenna, shroud, and other attachments to be used shall be 
designed in accordance with AASHTO’s Standard Specifications for Structural 
Supports for Highway Signs, Luminaires, and Traffic Signals, TIA-222 rev G and ASCE 
7-16 with IBC 2018 (or latest standard), plus amendment for other local conditions. 
Pole Selection Site Analysis 
• If the applicant proposes a wireless facility on a new freestanding pole, the 
applicant must first identify all existing potential poles or support structures within 
500 feet from the proposed site along the subject right-of-way that is available and 
technically feasible. The applicant must also demonstrate by clear and convincing 
evidence in writing that any of these identified existing poles or support structures 
within 500 feet from the proposed site would be technically infeasible.  
608 of 734

--- page 609 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 27 
 
 
 
Conduits Sweeps 
• Eight (8) 2” PVC conduit sweeps shall be required. Conduit shall accommodate 
wireless facility carrier electrical and fiber with up to four (4) spare sweeps for future 
service. 
Antenna 
• The top of the antenna shall be no higher than 48 in. above the top of the pole. 
• Antennas shall be shrouded if feasible.   
• A tapered transition between the pole and antenna shall be included if feasible. 
• Antennas shall be located at the top of the pole to the maximum extent feasible. 
Stickers/Signs 
• Any on-pole cabinet and ground mounted utility box should be labeled with a (1) RF 
warning sticker, background to match pole color, no larger than 4 x 6 inches. Facing 
to the street near the elevation of the antennae, (2) 4-inch by 6-inch (maximum) plate 
with the provider’s name, location identifying information, and 24-hour emergency 
telephone number, and (3) No advertising, logos or decals. 
• Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory equipment. CA MUTCD 
requirements for sign mounting height shall be met.  Equipment screened by a sign 
must not change the silhouette of the sign as viewed by motorists. 
• A pole number label shall be installed. 
Hardware 
• All mounting hardware shall be compatible with mounting surface and weather 
resistant.  
Disconnect Switch 
• Bottom of disconnect switch shall be mounted at a minimum of 7 feet above grade 
or per PG&E’s standards. 
Equipment Cabinet 
• All equipment shall be located internal to the equipment cabinet or 
recessed as much as possible in the equipment cabinet. 
• All equipment shall be mounted per the Owner’s requirements.  
Removal of Freestanding 
Poles 
• Poles shall be promptly removed under a separate encroachment permit once 
applicant is no longer using the pole to actively provide telecommunications service. 
609 of 734

--- page 610 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 28 
 
 
 
Placement Requirements 
 
All freestanding wireless facility poles shall be privately owned and must be permitted by the City of San Mateo. 
Freestanding poles shall not be approved except as provided in these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements. Freestanding poles shall be placed in accordance with the following requirements: 
 
1. In a manner that does not impede, obstruct, or hinder pedestrian or vehicular travel. 
 
2. So as not to be located along the frontage of a historic building, deemed historic on a federal, state, or 
local level. 
 
3. So as not to significantly create a new obstruction to property sight lines, when reasonably feasible. 
 
4. At the intersection of property lines, or along secondary property street facing. 
 
5. Within the street amenity zone whenever possible. 
 
6. In alignment with existing trees, utility poles, and streetlights. 
 
7. Equal distance between trees when possible, with a minimum of 15 feet separation such that no 
proposed disturbance shall occur within the critical root zone of any tree. 
 
8. With appropriate clearance from existing utilities. 
 
9. Outside of the 20-foot equipment clear zone (for base cabinets less than 18-inches in diameter) or 30-
foot clear sight triangle (for base cabinets equal to or greater than 18-inches in diameter) at intersection 
corners as shown in Figure 5-7. 
 
10. 10 feet away from the triangle extension of an alley way flare. 
 
11. Shall not be located within 100 feet of the apron of a fire station or other adjacent emergency service 
facility. 
 
12. No closer than 250 feet away, radially, from another privately-owned freestanding wireless facility. 
 
13. Avoid, when reasonably feasible, placement in residential areas, near schools, and parks. 
 
 
610 of 734

--- page 611 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 29 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6.1 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Spacing Radius 
 
 
 
 
Freestanding poles shall be located 
a minimum of 250 feet from other 
freestanding poles 
Existing streetlights and utility pole 
locations do not affect the placement 
of freestanding poles.  Minimum 250 
feet does not apply. 
611 of 734

--- page 612 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 30 
 
 
 
Figure 6.2 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Amenity Zone 
 
 
 
Freestanding wireless facilities shall be located such that they in no way impede, obstruct, or hinder the usual 
pedestrian or vehicular travel, affect public safety, obstruct the legal access to or use of the public ROW, violate 
applicable law, violate or conflict with the City’s separate public ROW design standards, specifications, or design 
district requirements, violate the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or in any way create a risk to 
public health, safety, or welfare. Free standing wireless facilities shall be located within the ROW and off set 
from the sidewalk as shown in Figure 5.3 
 
Figure 6.3 – Freestanding Wireless Facility Sight-Line Requirements 
 
         
 
 
 
612 of 734

--- page 613 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 31 
 
 
 
Freestanding wireless facilities shall be located at intersecting property lines as much as possible. Whenever 
possible, the freestanding wireless facilities shall be located on the secondary street. Do not locate wireless 
facilities in clear sight triangle.  Wireless facilities shall also be located a minimum of 15 feet away from trees to 
prevent disturbance within the critical root zone of any tree. The wireless facilities shall not be installed between 
the perpendicular extension of the primary street-facing wall plane of any single or two-family residence as 
shown in Figure 5-4. 
 
Figure 6.4 – Freestanding Wireless facility Location between Property Lines 
613 of 734

--- page 614 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 32 
 
 
 
Figure 6.5 – Freestanding Wireless Facility in Commercial Area 
 
 
When located adjacent to a commercial establishment, such as a shop or restaurant, care should be taken to 
locate the wireless facility such that it does not negatively impact the business. More specifically, wireless 
facilities shall not be located in-front of store front windows, primary walkways, primary entrances or exits, or 
in such a way that it would impede a delivery to the building. Wireless facilities should be located between 
properties as much as possible as shown above. Wireless facilities shall match the architecture of the 
surrounding neighborhood.  The City shall have the authority to mandate the color and other aesthetics of 
wireless facility installations consistent with the City’s design preferences and the requirements in San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
 
 
614 of 734

--- page 615 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 33 
 
 
 
Table 6.2 – Procedures For Freestanding Poles [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Informational Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with City staff to review potential locations and streamline the review process.  This 
meeting is highly recommended in order to identify acceptable designs.  This voluntary informational 
meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within a 500’ radius of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties.  
This meeting is highly recommended for new freestanding poles. This voluntary neighborhood meeting 
does not cause the FCC Shot clock to begin. 
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) working days after City staff receives a written request. 
 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. Notice Requirements.  Within five (5) calendar days of application submittal, applicant provides notice by 
first class United States mail to all property owners and residents within 500’ of proposed project and posts 
in at least three locations near the site. 
5. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
6. Power Walks.  Applicant conducts power walks with City staff to determine point of electrical service 
connection.  This shall be shown on the plans when applicant resubmits. 
7. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
8. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the 
application is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC Shot Clock limits. 
9. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
10. Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post notice of conditional approval with appeal process on the Small Cell 
Infrastructure 
webpage 
when 
the 
decision 
notice 
is 
sent 
to 
the 
applicant.  
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
 
Appeals 
11. Appeals.  The applicant or any person who received notice of an application as provided in the Code may 
appeal any decision to approve or deny a Wireless Permit.  Appeals must be filed with Sustainability & 
Infrastructure Commission (S&IC) Secretary within five (5) calendar days following the decision.  If no 
appeals, the project may be approved. If an appeal is received, staff will schedule a public hearing with S&IC 
to consider and act on the application in accordance with the required findings. If the appeal is denied by 
the S&IC, the project may be approved. If the appeal is approved by the S&IC, the project is denied and the 
applicant will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
 
 
Building Permit 
12. Building Permit.  Applicant applies for a Building Permit with the Building Division for PG&E release.  A 
separate fee shall apply. 
 
615 of 734

--- page 616 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 34 
 
 
 
Encroachment 
Permit 
13. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
14. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
15. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
16. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
 
 
 
616 of 734

--- page 617 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 35 
 
 
 
7 SECTION 6409 APPROVALS 
 
Section 6409 Approvals shall comply with SMMC 17.10.110 and all design standards and application 
requirements in this document.   
 
Table 7.1 – Procedures For Section 6409 Approvals [SMMC] 
Pre-Application 
1. Voluntary Information Meeting with City Staff.  Applicant may request a voluntary pre-submittal 
informational meeting with the City staff to review proposed modifications to the existing facility and 
streamline the review process.  This meeting is highly recommended in order to identify acceptable designs.  
This voluntary informational meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin. 
2. 
Voluntary Informational Neighborhood Meeting.  Applicant is encouraged to hold a voluntary informational 
neighborhood meeting at City Hall or via Zoom to discuss the proposed project with residents and property 
owners within 500’ of the project location in order to receive feedback from interested parties. This 
voluntary informational neighborhood meeting does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.  
Application 
3. Submittal Appointment.  Applicant submits Application, Checklist, Required Materials, and Deposit at a pre-
scheduled appointment. City staff shall use reasonable efforts to provide the applicant with an appointment 
within five (5) working days after City staff receives a written request. Alternative sites analysis is not 
required for Section 6409 approvals.  A Section 6409 Evaluation indicating whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the FCC is required. 
• 
Shot Clocks Starts 
4. City Review.  The City shall have ten (10) calendar days from the submission of the application to determine 
whether the application is incomplete. If the City deems that the application is complete, it shall review the 
application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits.  
5. Applicant Resubmittal.  If the City deems that the application is incomplete, the applicant responds to 
corrections and resubmits materials. 
• 
Shot Clocks Restarts 
6. Subsequent City Reviews and Resubmittals.  City staff reviews and shall have ten (10) calendar days from 
the re-submission to determine whether the application is incomplete. If the city deems that the application 
is complete, it shall review the application in accordance with the FCC shot clock limits. 
7. Conditional Approval.  City staff may approve the application when all findings are met as provided in the 
Code.  If findings are not met, application will be denied and applicant will need to resubmit.  
8. 
Notice of Decision.  A decision notice is sent to the applicant within five (5) calendar days after the City acts 
on an application. City staff shall post the Notice of  Decision on the Small Cell Infrastructure webpage when 
the decision notice is sent to the applicant. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3865/Small-Cell-Infrastructure 
[SMMC 17.10.070(e)] [SMMC 17.10.070(f)] 
9. Limited Exceptions.  If the applicant claims that strict compliance with the Design Standards and Application 
Requirements would effectively prohibit the applicant’s ability to provide personal wireless services, City 
staff may grant a limited exception if required findings are met. 
Appeals 
10. Appeals.  The applicant only (not the public) may appeal any decision to deny a Wireless Permit for 6409.  
Appeals must be filed with the Director of Public Works within five (5) calendar days of the Notice of 
Decision.  If the appeal is approved by the Director of Public Works, the project is denied and the applicant 
will need to resubmit. 
[SMMC 17.10.110(e)] 
Encroachment 
Permit 
11. Encroachment Permit.  Applicant applies for an Encroachment Permit with the Public Works Department.  
A separate fee shall apply as provided in the City’s Fee Schedule.  Encroachment permit shall include traffic 
control plans and insurance.  Prior to construction, applicant shall contact Public Works for an inspection. 
12. Performance Bond.  Applicant shall provide Public Works with a Performance Bond in compliance with COA 
A.13 and B.15. 
Post 
Application 
13. Certification.  Applicant shall provide Public Works Post-Installation Certification in compliance with COA 
A.3 and B.5. 
14. Contact Information.  Applicant shall provide up-to-date contact information to Public Works in compliance 
with COA A.11 and B.13. 
617 of 734

--- page 618 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 36 
 
 
 
8 NON-CONFORMING WIRELESS FACILITIES 
Any non-conforming wireless facilities in existence at the time these Design Standards and Application 
Requirements become effective shall be brought into conformance with the current Design Standards within 
ten (10) years upon receiving written notice from the City, or otherwise in accordance with applicable law. 
 
Applicants are not only required to comply with these Design Standards and Application Requirements during 
the initial application, but are also required to continue to monitor compliance with application Design 
Standards in the future in accordance with applicable law. 
618 of 734

--- page 619 ---
The Design Standards and Application Requirements - 2021 
Page 37 
 
 
 
APPENDIX 
 
619 of 734

--- page 620 ---
Appendix A:  Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application 
620 of 734

--- page 621 ---
Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
  
 
Revised: March 2021 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities  
Permit Application 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application, the Application Checklist and all other 
required materials, a meeting with staff is strongly encouraged. This voluntary 
informational meeting with City staff does not cause the FCC Shot Clock to 
begin.    
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and the Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Authorized Representative: 
Name: ___________________________________________________________ 
Company: ________________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ___________________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: ____________________________________________________ 
Phone: ____________________________ Fax: __________________________ 
E-mail:  __________________________________________________________ 
Pole Owner: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Pole Owner’s Signature: 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Applicant’s Signature: (if different from Property Owner) 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ________________________________________________________      Pole Number a:_____________________________________ 
Zoning District (for ROW, provide nearest zoning district): ________________________________     a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Latitude/Longitude of Location: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Construction Value ($)/Project Description:   _______________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  WIRELESS PERMIT         □  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL            □   OTHER __________________________________________________________________ 
STAFF USE ONLY 
Applicable Shot Clock Period (for informational purposes only):        □   60 days       □  90 days        □   OTHER: __________ 
Pre-App Submittal Meeting ________________________________________ 
Neighborhood Meeting ____________________________________________ 
Application Submittal _____________________________________________ 
 
Application Deemed Complete _____________________________________ 
Shot Clock Expiration _____________________________________________ 
Conditionally Approved ___________________________________________ 
Appeal _________________________________________________________ 
621 of 734

--- page 622 ---
Appendix B:  Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application Checklist 
622 of 734

--- page 623 ---
Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
 
 
Revised: March 2021 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application Checklist 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application Checklist, Application and all other 
required materials, a meeting with City staff is strongly encouraged.  The City 
also recommends applicant holds a voluntary neighborhood meeting. These 
voluntary meetings shall not cause the FCC Shot Clock to begin.    
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10 and Design Standards and Application Requirements. 
 
All starred (*) items in the checklist below are not required for a Section 
6409 Approval. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ___________________________________________ 
Project Description: _________________________________________________ 
Pole Number a:_____________________________________________________ 
a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  WIRELESS PERMIT      □  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL        
□  OTHER(describe request)       __________________________________ 
 
APPLICATION CHECKLIST – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
 
  APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT 
 
  PROJECT PLANS 
 
  VOLUNTARY NEIGBORHOOD MEETING 
SUMMARY 
[Attachment 1] 
 
  PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
[Attachment 2] 
 
  PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF 
COMMENTS 
[Attachment 3] 
 
  PRIOR PERMITS & REGULATORY 
APPROVALS 
[Attachments 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d] 
 
  PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
[Attachment 5] 
 
 
 
 
 
  INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
[Attachment 6] 
 
  RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
[Attachment 7] 
 
  NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
[Attachment 8] 
 
  SECTION 6409 EVALUATION (if applicable) 
[Attachment 9] 
 
  PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL 
OBJECTIVES INFORMATION* 
[Attachment 10] 
 
  ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
[Attachment 11] 
 
  STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION (if applicable) 
[Attachment 12] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
623 of 734

--- page 624 ---
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
The following Application Requirements contain the requirements for a complete wireless facility permit application. For the 
application to be deemed complete, the applicant must submit all the applicable application materials in the Application 
Checklist in accordance with the Application Requirements along with all other generally applicable materials required for 
the requested permit or approval. 
 
Notes: All starred (*) items are not required for a Section 6409 Approval. After the City issues the requested permit, the 
applicant must obtain all other required permits (including, without limitation and as applicable, building, electrical, plumbing, 
encroachment, etc.) prior to performing the installation. 
 
 
APPLICATION FORM AND DEPOSIT 
 
Instructions: Complete the Wireless Facilities Permit Application  available on the City’s website or at the Public Works 
Department and submit the corresponding application deposit for the requested permit or approval. You may find the City’s 
fee schedule on the City’s website or contact the Public Works Department for appropriate filing fees. 
 
 
PROJECT PLANS 
 
Instructions: Provide two sets of complete 24 x 36-inch project plans drawn to a scale of not less than 1/16" equals one 
foot and a digital file of such plans in portable document format (PDF). Project plans must contain all the following:  
 
1. Cover Sheet 
 
A complete cover sheet must include at a minimum: 
  a detailed project description that specifies the proposed installation and/or modifications including without 
limitation all physical elements such as antennas, radios, power services, all cables, mounts, and all other 
elements of the proposed project 
  site information that includes the proposed site address, site latitude and longitude (WGS 84 datum), zoning 
classification of the nearest private property, project team contact information  site map, and pole number (if 
applicable) 
2. Site Survey (Only required for proposed ground mounted equipment) 
Only a California-registered Civil Engineer or licensed surveyor may prepare the site survey. A complete site survey 
must include: 
  property and right-of-way boundaries with all bearings, distances, monuments, iron rods, caps or other markers 
clearly shown and called out 
  boundaries for all easements and/or dedications with all dimensions clearly shown and called out 
  approximate topographical contour lines with elevations called out 
 
  any trees at least 4 inches in diameter at a point approximately 4.5 feet above ground 
  all structures or improvements on the property or within the right of way within any block partially or entirely occupied 
by the project and any elements thereof 
  all structures or improvements on adjacent parcels within 15 feet from the property line 
  a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
  wet stamp and wet signature from the licensed preparer 
  general specifications and notes identifying the applicable public health and safety codes and standards 
 
624 of 734

--- page 625 ---
3. Site Development Plan 
 
A complete site development plan must include: 
  plan-view drawings, which include: 
  the entire property or right-of-way block with the proposed project improvements 
  detailed before-and-after views for any equipment pads, enclosures, cabinets, pedestals and/or vaults 
  all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out 
  boundaries for all easements, encroachments and/or other rights-of-way for access and utilities in 
connection with the wireless site with all dimensions clearly shown and called out 
  all existing and proposed primary and backup utilities, including without limitation all cables, connectors, 
risers, conduits, cable shrouds, trays, bridges and/or doghouses, transformers, disconnect switches, panels, 
meters, pedestals, cabinets, vaults, generators and/or generator sockets  
  detailed before-and-after elevation drawings from all four cardinal directions, which include: 
  all existing and proposed structures, improvements and/or fixtures with all dimensions clearly called out 
  all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership identifications clearly called 
out 
  all existing and proposed fiber optic cables, conduits, risers, guy wires, anchors, primary and secondary 
power lines clearly called out 
  callouts and notes for any proposed new or extended concealment elements 
  a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
 
4. Equipment Inventory 
The equipment inventory does not need to include primary utility cables, panels or cabinets, or any other objects not 
primarily designed or intended for radio communications purposes. All other equipment must be inventoried with the 
following information for each component: 
  manufacturer and model number 
  basic dimensions (height, width, length and weight) 
  table showing volumes of all equipment 
 
 
VOLUNTARY NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY 
 
Instructions: Provide a summary of neighborhood meeting if conducted. Label the summary as “Attachment 1 – 
Neighborhood Meeting Summary” and attach it to the application. If a meeting is not conducted, mark the checklist box 
with an “X”. 
 
 
PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
 
Instructions: Provide photo simulations of the proposed project as constructed. The photo simulations must be in a high-
resolution format and show the proposed facility from reasonable line-of-sight locations that would accurately and reliably 
reflect the appearance of the proposed facility and/or modifications as-built. Label these photo simulations “Attachment 2 – 
Photo Simulations” and attach them to this application. Except as otherwise provided, photo simulations must contain all 
the following: 
 
625 of 734

--- page 626 ---
1.  Current Site Photographs 
 
Current site photographs must include: 
  photographs of the existing site from at least two different reasonable line-of-sight locations from public streets 
or other adjacent viewpoints; 
  a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location; 
  Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc. 
 
2. Photo Simulations 
 
Photo simulations must include: 
  an accurate and reliable visual representation of the proposed facility from the same reasonable line-of-sight 
locations used in the current site photographs and must include without limitation all interconnecting cables, 
conduits, brackets, and electronic equipment such as antennas, radio units, powering, and the like; 
  a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the direction to the 
site from each photo location; 
  Include a close-up view of the equipment, including all wires, conduits, equipment, etc. 
 
3. Section 6409 Photo Simulation  
For Section 6409 Approval applications, the applicant must provide at least one photo simulation that demonstrates the 
impact of the proposed modification on all concealment elements of the support structure. Concealment elements include 
but are not limited to radomes, cable shrouds, painting, landscaping, equipment enclosures and designs and/or 
techniques intended to blend with the surrounding built and/or natural environment. 
 
PUBLIC NOTICE, AFFIDAVIT, LOG OF COMMENTS 
 
Instructions: Provide a copy of the notice mailed to all property owners and residents within 500’ of the proposed project, 
proof of notification mailing (affidavit), and log of concerns, comments, questions with response in accordance with the 
Application Requirements and Design Standards.  Label the notice, affidavit and log “Attachment 3 – PUBLIC NOTICE, 
AFFIDAVIT, LOG” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
PRIOR PERMITS AND REGULATORY APPROVALS 
 
Instructions: Provide true and correct copies of all the following: 
 
1. Prior Permits 
If the applicant requests a Section 6409 Approval, provide copies of all prior local regulatory approvals (original siting 
permits and any modification permits) issued for the facility with any corresponding conditions of approval and project 
plans approved by the applicable regulatory authority. Alternatively, the applicant may submit a written justification that 
sets forth the reasons why prior regulatory approvals were not required for the wireless facility at the time it was 
constructed or modified. Label this documentation “Attachment 4a – Prior Permits” and attach it to this application.  
 
2. FCC Licenses 
If the applicant or service provider proposes to operate in FCC-licensed spectrum, provide proof of licenses for all 
planned operating bands. If there are federal build-out requirements, indicate which and whether they have been fully 
satisfied. If not satisfied, indicate what remains to be satisfied. Label this documentation “Attachment 4b – FCC 
Licenses” and attach it to this application. 
 
626 of 734

--- page 627 ---
3. FAA Forms 
If the proposed facility requires the applicant to file FAA form 7460 or other documentation under Federal Aviation 
Regulation Part 77.13 et seq., or under the FCC rules, provide such documentation. Label this documentation 
“Attachment 4c – FAA Forms” and attach it to this application. 
 
4. Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) / Wireless ID Registration (WIR) 
For all applications for facilities in the public right-of-way, provide a true and correct copy of the applicant’s CPCN and/or 
WIR issued by the California Public Utilities Commission or its successor agency. Label this documentation “Attachment 
4d – CPCN / WIR” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
POLE OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
 
Instructions:  For privately owned poles, provide a letter of authorization from the pole owner that authorizes the applicant 
to perform the installation or modification. The letter must be signed by the owner. In lieu of a letter of authorization for 
facilities in the public right-of-way, the applicant may submit the property owner’s standard authorization form issued in the 
property owner’s regular course of business to demonstrate that the applicant has the authority to perform the installation or 
modification. Label this authorization “Attachment 5 – Property Owner’s Authorization” and attach it to this application. 
 
 
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
 
Instructions: Complete, sign and attach to this application a fully executed Environmental Information Form. Label this form 
“Attachment 6 – Environmental Information Form” and attach it to this application. The Environmental Information Form 
may be obtained electronically on the City’s website or by contacting the Public Works Department.  
 
 
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide an RF exposure compliance report prepared and certified by an RF engineer that certifies that the 
proposed facility, as well as any collocated facilities and any cumulative emissions from adjacent areas, will comply with 
applicable federal RF human exposure standards and limits. At a minimum, the RF exposure compliance report must provide 
the same information and in the same form as the FCC LSGAC Appendix A form for each band of operations. For projects 
on or attached to poles subject to CPUC General Order 95 regulation, provide evidence of compliance with CPUC General 
Order 95, Rule 94. Label this report “Attachment 7 – RF Compliance Report” and attach it to this application.  
 
The RF compliance report must include:  
  the actual frequency, actual or maximum power levels (in watts effective radiated power (ERP)), and the actual 
or maximum transmitting channels for all existing and proposed antennas at the site. 
  exhibits that show:  
  the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas;  
  the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
uncontrolled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the FCC);  
  the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in excess of the 
controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC). 
 
 
Note: Each such boundary must be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the project site, whether 
owned/operated by the applicant or another licensee. To the extent that the project site contains collocated transmitters from 
multiple operators, the RF exposure compliance report must evaluate all the transmitting antennas that may cause cumulative 
emissions. 
627 of 734

--- page 628 ---
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide a noise compliance report for the proposed facility and all associated equipment including all 
environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and permanent backup power generators in 
order to demonstrate compliance with the City’s noise regulations. The noise compliance report must be prepared and 
certified by an engineer and include an analysis of the manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-emitting equipment and a 
depiction of the proposed equipment relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a noise compliance report, the applicant 
may submit evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the proposed equipment will 
not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits. Label this analysis “Attachment 8 – Noise Compliance 
Report” and attach it to the application. 
 
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION 
 
Instructions: If the applicant requests approval pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation 
Act of 2012 (codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)), the applicant must complete and submit justification whether the proposed 
modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the applicable FCC substantial change thresholds. Label this 
worksheet “Attachment 9 – Section 6409 Evaluation” and attach it to the application. 
 
 
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide the following information to demonstrate the intended 
technical service objectives and the nature of the existing service capabilities of the applicant’s network in the area that would 
be served by the proposed facility or enhanced by the proposed modification. Label this analysis “Attachment 10 – Project 
Purpose and Technical Objectives” and attach it to the application. 
 
1. Project Purpose 
Identify and describe the project purpose. Possible responses analyze whether the proposed facility or modification will:  
  add new personal wireless service coverage to an area in which the licensee does not currently provide any 
personal wireless service coverage; 
  add new personal wireless service capacity to an area in which the licensee currently provides personal wireless 
service coverage. 
If the project has a different purpose from the options described above, provide such purpose in full detail. 
 
2. Technical Objectives 
Provide a detailed written statement that describes the technical objectives the applicant intends the proposed wireless 
facility to achieve and the factual reasons why the proposed location, centerline height and equipment configuration are 
necessary to achieve those objectives. In addition, the statement must include all the following required information 
and/or materials: 
  a street-level map that shows the general geographic area of the service area(s) to be improved through the 
proposed wireless facility (the “Service Area”); 
  full-color signal propagation maps in scale with the street level map that show current and predicted service 
coverage in the area for all active frequencies in RSRP (or other relevant signal level or quality indicator) and 
with a legend that describes the objective signal levels in dBm that correspond to any colors used to depict 
signal levels on such propagation maps; 
  a written narrative that describes the uses (commercial, residential, primary thoroughfare, highway, etc.) within 
the Service Area, and the manner in which those uses would be negatively affected if the Service Area were to 
remain unaddressed; 
  a statement as to whether the applicant conducted any drive test(s) and, if so, all drive test results and data (in 
.XLS or .CSV or similar format) together with a report that describes how and when the applicant conducted 
such test(s). 
628 of 734

--- page 629 ---
3. Network Map 
Provide an overview map of the applicant’s network within the City’s jurisdictional and territorial boundaries that shows 
(1) all the existing wireless facilities that applicant currently owns and/or operates and (2) all future wireless facilities that 
are reasonably foreseeable within two years of the application submission. The map must provide a legend that 
distinguishes between “macro” cells and small cell facilities. 
 
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a detailed written analysis that describes how the 
proposed wireless facility complies with all the applicable requirements in the San Mateo Municipal Code, which includes 
without limitation the provisions specific to wireless facilities, and all the alternative locations and designs considered before 
submitting this application. Label this analysis “Attachment 11 – Alternative Sites Analysis” and attach it to the application. 
The Alternative Sites Analysis shall be included as part of the neighborhood meeting, if conducted.  In addition, the analysis 
must include all the following required information and/or materials: 
 
  a street-level map that shows the general geographic area surrounding the proposed location annotated to show: 
  all existing wireless facilities within the relevant geographic area 
  the search ring used for this particular project.  The search ring shall be a minimum radius of 500’. 
  all locations for each alternative considered for this particular project 
  for each alternative site considered, a detailed written description that includes, without limitation all the following: 
  the nearest physical address 
  zoning district designation for the nearest private property 
  support structure type considered 
  general design concept and concealment elements/techniques considered 
  overall height and achievable antenna centerline height 
  the factual reasons why the applicant considered the potential alternative site location and/or design to 
be unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. Note: This explanation must include a meaningful comparative 
analysis and such technical information and other factual justification as are necessary to document the 
reasons why each alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with the 
development standards in Chapter 17.10. Conclusory statements that a particular alternative is 
unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the development standards in Chapter 
17.10 will be deemed incomplete. 
 
  for each alternative site within the search ring, signal propagation maps in scale with the street level map that 
show current and predicted service coverage in the area for all active frequencies in RSRP (or other relevant 
signal level or quality indicator) with and without the alternative site and with a legend that describes the objective 
signal levels in dBm that correspond to any colors used to depict signal levels on such propagation maps. The 
signal propagation maps required must be directly comparable with the signal propagation maps submitted to 
show before-and-after service from the applicant’s proposed site. If the applicant did not locate any alternatives 
within the search ring, the analysis must expressly state that no such alternatives were considered. 
 
STRUCTURAL CERTIFICATION 
 
Instructions: Provide certification prepared and stamped by a professionally licensed structural engineer certifying that the 
pole foundation and attachments meet or exceed design parameters detailed in the design standards. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 12 – Structural Certification” and attach it to the application.  
 
 
629 of 734

--- page 630 ---
Appendix C: Standard Conditions of Approval 
for Wireless Communications 
Facilities
 
 
630 of 734

--- page 631 ---
STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES IN 
THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY PURSUANT TO SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 
17.10.080 
 
A. 
Standard Conditions for Wireless Facilities Permits.  
 
1. 
Permit Term. This permit will automatically expire 10 years and one day from its issuance 
if a new permit has not been applied for in writing at least 120 days prior to permit 
expiration, except when California Government Code § 65964(b), as may be amended or 
superseded in the future, authorizes the City to establish a shorter term for public safety 
or substantial land use reasons. Any other permits or approvals issued in connection with 
any collocation, modification or other change to this wireless facility, which includes 
without limitation any permits or other approvals deemed-granted or deemed-approved 
under federal or state law, will not extend this term limit unless expressly provided 
otherwise in such permit or approval or required under federal or state law. 
 
2. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction 
in connection with this permit, the permittee must incorporate this permit, all conditions 
associated with this permit and the approved photo simulations into the project plans (the 
“Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility 
in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Any alterations, modifications or other 
changes to the Approved Plans, whether requested by the permittee or required by other 
departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless facility, must be 
submitted in a written request subject to the City’s prior review and approval, who may 
refer the request to the original approval authority if the City finds that the requested 
alteration, modification or other change deviates from the Approved Plans or implicates 
a significant or substantial land-use concern. 
 
3. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee commences 
full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or deemed-approved under San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the permittee shall provide the City with 
documentation that the wireless facility has been installed and/or constructed in 
compliance with the Approved Plans.  Such documentation must include as-built 
drawings,  GIS data, post installation RF study, and site photographs. 
 
4. 
Build-Out Period. This permit will automatically expire one (1) year from the approval or 
deemed-granted date. The City may grant one written extension to a date certain, but not 
to exceed one (1) additional year, when the permittee shows good cause to extend the 
limitations period in a written request for an extension submitted at least 30 days prior to 
the automatic expiration date in this condition. 
 
5. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. During any maintenance or repair operations, 
the permittee shall keep the site, which includes without limitation any and all 
improvements, equipment, structures, access routes, fences and landscape features, in 
a neat, clean and safe condition. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and 
remediate any graffiti or other vandalism on its equipment within 48 hours after the 
permittee receives notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other 
vandalism occurred.  
 
631 of 734

--- page 632 ---
6. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with all 
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the force of 
law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the wireless facility or any 
use or activities in connection with the use authorized in this permit, which includes 
without limitation any Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The permittee 
expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be broadly 
construed and that no other specific requirements in these conditions are intended to 
reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the permittee’s obligations to maintain compliance 
with all Laws. In the event that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce compliance 
with any applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any permit 
condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or permittee will not be relieved 
from its obligation to comply in all respects with all applicable provisions in the San Mateo 
Municipal Code, any permit, any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation. 
 
7. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to this permit, the 
permittee and the property owner shall reasonably cooperate with efforts by the City to 
evaluate whether the wireless facility complies with all applicable FCC rules and 
regulations for human exposure to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to 
the City and may include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with applicable FCC 
rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as the frequencies in use, power 
output levels and antenna specifications, reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance 
with maximum permissible exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its 
designee to have supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections 
and field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City or its 
designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the foregoing. 
 
8. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable efforts to 
avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse impacts on nearby properties that may 
arise from the permittee’s or its authorized personnel’s construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. 
The permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other work that involves heavy 
equipment or machines except during normal construction work hours authorized by the 
San Mateo Municipal Code. The restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit 
any work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any 
work during an emergency declared by the City. The City may issue a stop work order for 
any activities that violates this condition. 
 
9. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power generators only 
during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for maintenance purposes during normal 
construction hours in accordance with the San Mateo Municipal Code. The City may 
approve a temporary power source and/or generator in connection with initial 
construction, major repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not 
operate any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
10. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter onto the site and inspect the 
improvements and equipment upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee,  or promptly 
after  an emergency. The City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but will not 
be obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, disable or 
remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such improvements or 
632 of 734

--- page 633 ---
equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The permittee, if 
present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee while any such 
inspection or emergency access occurs. 
 
11. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the City with accurate and 
up-to-date contact information for a person responsible for the wireless facility, which 
includes without limitation such person’s full name, title, direct telephone number, 
facsimile number, mailing address and email address. The permittee shall keep such 
contact information up to date at all times and immediately provide the City with updated 
contact information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
12. 
Indemnification. The permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, City 
Council and City boards, commissions, agents, officers, officials, volunteers, and 
employees from any and all (1) damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses 
and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings 
(“Claims”) brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, volunteers, and/or 
employees to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City’s 
approval of this permit, and (2) other Claims of any kind or form, whether for personal 
injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the permittee’s or 
its agents’, directors’, officers’, employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, licensees’, or 
customers’ acts or omissions in connection with this permit or the wireless facility. 
Permittee’s duty to defend and indemnify shall not apply to the extent such Claims are 
caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of the City. In the event the 
City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts to promptly notify the 
permittee and the private property owner and shall reasonably cooperate in the defense. 
The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the City shall have the right to 
approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel providing 
the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee (as applicable) shall promptly 
reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and necessarily incurred by the City 
in the course of the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
permittee’s indemnification obligations under this condition are a material consideration 
that motivates the City to approve this permit, and that such indemnification obligations 
will survive the expiration or revocation of this permit. 
 
13. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any encroachment 
permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction in connection 
with this permit, the permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety and in a form 
acceptable to the City in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost to remove 
the improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate from a 
qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The written estimate 
must include the cost to remove all equipment and other improvements, which includes 
without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, mounts, 
brackets, hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, footings 
and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or installed in 
connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely restore any areas affected 
by the removal work to a standard compliant with applicable laws. In establishing or 
adjusting the bond amount required under this condition, and in accordance with 
California Government Code § 65964(a), the City shall take into consideration any 
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to 
a standard compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall expressly survive 
633 of 734

--- page 634 ---
the duration of the permit term to the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of 
the subject wireless facility in accordance with this condition. 
 
14. 
Permit Revocation. The City may review this permit at any time due to complaints about 
noncompliance with applicable laws or any approval conditions attached to this permit. In 
accordance with all applicable laws, the City may revoke this permit or amend these 
conditions as the City deems necessary or appropriate to correct any such 
noncompliance. 
 
15. 
Record Retention. The permittee must maintain, for the duration of the permit term, 
complete and accurate copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in 
connection with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all conditions 
associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or approvals issued in 
connection with this approval. In the event that the permittee does not maintain such 
records as required in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be 
resolved through an inspection of the missing records will be construed against the 
permittee. The permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that copies 
kept in the City’s possession will control over any conflicts, and originals will control over 
all other copies in any form. 
 
16. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable television 
operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities where the permittee’s 
wireless facility is located, the permittee must underground its equipment except the 
antennas and antenna supports. Such undergrounding shall occur at the permittee’s sole 
cost and expense except as reimbursed pursuant to law. 
 
17. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility provider adopts 
or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure, the permittee on its own initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall 
apply to the City for permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
18. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the City, in its sole 
discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, width or location; (2) add, 
remove or otherwise change any improvements in, on, under or along any street, 
sidewalk, or right of way owned by the City or any other public agency, which includes 
without limitation any sewers, storm drains, conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles 
and utility systems for gas, water, electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any 
other work deemed necessary, useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City Work”). 
The City reserves the rights to do any and all City Work without any admission on its part 
that the City would not have such rights without the express reservation in this permit. In 
the event that the City determines that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility 
to be rearranged and/or relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or 
cause to be done all things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement and/or 
relocation. If the permittee fails or refuses to either permanently or temporarily rearrange 
and/or relocate the permittee’s facility within a reasonable time after the City’s notice, the 
City may (but will not be obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be 
performed at the permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to 
rearrange or relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee when the 
City determines that the City Work is immediately necessary to protect public health or 
safety. The permittee shall reimburse the City for all costs and expenses in connection 
634 of 734

--- page 635 ---
with such work within 10 calendar days after a written demand for reimbursement and 
reasonable documentation to support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall 
indemnify, defend and hold the City, its agents, officers, officials, employees and 
volunteers harmless from and against any Claims in connection with rearranging or 
relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on or off any water, oil, gas, electricity or other 
utility service in connection with the permittee’s facility, except to the extent such Claims 
are caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of the City. 
 
19. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features damaged or displaced 
by the construction, installation, operation, maintenance or other work performed by the 
permittee or at the permittee’s direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees 
are damaged or displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to 
select, plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for the 
species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed arborist shall be 
used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and other standards for any 
replacement trees shall be subject to the City’s approval in consultation with the licensed 
arborist. The permittee shall, at all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement 
landscape features. 
 
20. 
Encroachment Permit General Conditions. The permittee shall comply with the City of 
San Mateo’s Encroachment Permit General Conditions. 
 
21. 
Insurance Requirements. Commercial general liability (or comprehensive) and property 
damage insurance indicating the City of San Mateo as an additional insured is required. 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
i. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form 
CG 00 01 covering CGL on an "occurrence" basis, including products-
completed operations, personal   & advertising injury, contractual liability, 
property damage, death, bodily injury, and limited pollution liability 
endorsement, with limits no less than $5,000,000 per occurrence; 
$10,000,000 aggregate.  If a general aggregate limit applies, either the 
general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
ii. 
Limited Pollution Liability Coverage: Insurance in the amount of 
$5,000,000 per claim and in the aggregate covering third party claims for 
bodily injury, property damage or cleanup costs as required by law, where 
the pollution is caused during and by permittee’s work and for permittee’s 
products and completed operations. (This may satisfy the requirement for 
a limited pollution liability endorsement on the Commercial General 
Liability insurance policy.) 
iii. 
Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 
1), or if permittee has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned 
autos (Code 9), with limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury and property damage. 
iv. 
Workers' Compensation:  as required by the State of California, with 
Statutory Limits, and Employer's Liability Insurance with limit of no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury or disease. The Workers 
Compensation policy shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in favor 
of City (and its elected and appointed officials, employees, and volunteers). 
The insurers shall agree to waive all rights of subrogation against City and 
635 of 734

--- page 636 ---
its officials, officers, employees, and volunteers for all work performed by 
permittee and its employees, agents, and contractors. 
v. 
Professional Liability: (Applicable to all permittee’s contractors and 
subcontractors of any tier performing any professional services including 
engineers, surveyors, or consultants relating to this agreement) with limits 
of $2,000,000 per claim, and $2,000,000 policy aggregate. 
vi. 
Contractors’ Pollution Liability: (Applicable to all permittee’s contractors and 
subcontractors of any tier performing any removal, remediation, abatement, 
transportation or disposal of any hazardous materials and/or projects 
involving environmental hazards relating to permit) with limits of $2,000,000 
per occurrence and $2,000,000 policy aggregate.   
vii. 
“All Risk” Property Insurance: against all risks of loss or damage to any 
wireless communication facility(ies) or betterments, personal property, 
trade fixtures, equipment, and/or merchandise located in, on, at, under, 
above, or about the City’s right of way, license area, and/or City-owned 
pole(s) (including, but not limited to, loss resulting from fire, windstorm, hail, 
lightning, vandalism, malicious mischief, and such other perils ordinarily 
included in extended coverage casualty insurance policies).  Such 
insurance shall be maintained in an amount sufficient to cover not less than 
one hundred percent (100%) of the full replacement value thereof 
(whichever is greater) with no coinsurance penalty provision.  Permittee 
may self-insure this risk with prior notice to the City. 
 
 
If the permittee maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires 
and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the permittee. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, and agents are to be 
covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, 
leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the permittee; and on the COL policy with 
respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the 
permittee including materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement 
to the permittee’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 
20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to the permit, the permittee’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, volunteers, 
and agents. Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, volunteers, or agents shall be excess of the permittee’s 
insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, 
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given 
to the City. 
 
636 of 734

--- page 637 ---
Waiver of Subrogation 
Permittee hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation, which any 
commercial general liability, automobile liability, and worker’s compensation insurer of 
said permittee may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under 
such insurance.    Permittee agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to 
affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not 
the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Self-lnsured Retentions 
Any self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the permittee to purchase coverage with a lower retention or provide proof of 
ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense 
expenses within the retention. 
 
Claims Made Policies.  If any insurance coverage required herein is written on a “claims 
made” policy:  (a) the retroactive date must be shown, and this date must be before the 
execution date of the permit or the beginning of the permitted project or work; (b) 
insurance must be maintained and evidence of insurance must be provided for at least 
the duration of any applicable Master License Agreement and/or the applicable permit(s)) 
and five (5) years after completion of the subject work; and (c) if coverage is canceled or 
non-renewed, and not replaced with another claims-made policy form with a retroactive 
date prior to the permit effective, or start of work date, permittee must purchase extended 
reporting period coverage for a minimum of five (5) years after completion of any work; 
and (d) a copy of the claims reporting requirements must be submitted to the City for 
review upon request.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best's rating of no less than 
A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Permittee shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements 
or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All 
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work 
commences.   However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the permittee's obligation to provide them.  The City reserves 
the right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including 
endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
Contractors and Subcontractors.  Permittee shall require and verify that all contractors 
and subcontractors (if any) maintain the same insurance limits as required of permittee, 
unless otherwise agreed to by the City. 
 
Special Risk or Circumstances. City, upon prior written notice to, review and written  
acceptance by permittee, reserves the right to modify these insurance requirements at 
any time, including, but not limited to, limits, based on the nature of the risk, prior 
experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances. 
 
 
 
 
637 of 734

--- page 638 ---
22. 
Traffic Control.  Traffic control per Caltrans standards.  No street closures allowed, must 
allow through traffic at all times.  Permittee must notify City of San Mateo's Police (650) 
522-7700, Fire (650) 522-7940, and San Mateo County Communications (650) 363-4961, 
at least 24 – 48 hours in advance of lane closures or detours; and immediately upon 
removal of lane closure or detour. 
 
23. 
Traffic Control Plans (TCPs). Site-specific TCP’s are required where any of the following 
criteria are met, and shall be prepared in accordance with the “Guidelines for Submittal 
of Site-Specific TCP’s” found in the Encroachment Permit Packet: 
i. 
Any roadway that is classified as a collector or arterial. Roadway classifications 
are defined in the Circulation Element of the General Plan. A map of roadway 
classifications 
can 
be 
seen 
here: 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Home/View/7192 and is attached 
to this document. 
ii. 
Any roadway (including local roadways) that requires full road closures or detours. 
iii. 
Any roadway with a speed limit over 25 mph. 
 
The City reserves the right to require site-specific TCP’s where deemed necessary. 
 
24. 
Underground Service Alert (USA). Forty-eight (48) hours before commencing work, the 
permittee shall contact Underground Service Alert (USA) at 1-800-227-2600 to verify 
elevations and locations of all existing utilities 
 
25. 
Private Sewer Laterals. The City of San Mateo does not mark private sewer laterals in 
the public right-of-way as part of the Underground Service Alert (USA) program. Permittee 
is to take precautions to locate and protect private sewer laterals from damage during 
construction. In the event any damage is discovered, the Permittee is required to 
immediately dig and repair the sewer lateral to restore sewer service. If new facilities are 
being installed by the boring method the Permittee is also required to video inspect any 
sewer and storm mains that are crossed by their facilities as part of this project, a copy of 
this video is to be provided to the City. 
 
The above conditions are in addition to all other standards, requirements, and conditions adopted by 
the City, all wireless facilities permits, whether approved by the City or deemed approved by the 
operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. The City (or the 
appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend these conditions on a case-by-
case basis as may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances to protect public health and 
safety or allow for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with the goals and applicable 
provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
 
B. 
Standard Conditions for Section 6409 Approvals. In addition to all other conditions adopted 
by the City, all section 6409 approvals, whether approved by the City or deemed approved by 
the operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. The City (or 
the appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or amend these conditions on 
a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or appropriate under the circumstances to protect 
public health and safety or allow for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with 
the goals and applicable provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
1. 
Permit Term. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a section 6409 approval 
constitutes a federally-mandated modification to the underlying permit or other prior 
regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base station, and will be regarded as a 
638 of 734

--- page 639 ---
modification to the underlying approval for the subject tower or base station. The City’s 
grant or grant by operation of law of a section 6409 approval will not extend the permit 
term, if any, for any underlying permit or other underlying prior regulatory authorization. 
Accordingly, the term for a section 6409 approval shall be coterminous with the underlying 
permit or other prior regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base station. This 
condition shall not be applied or interpreted in any way that would cause the term of the 
underlying permit for the modified facility to be less than 10 years in total length. 
 
2. 
Compliance Obligations Due to Invalidation. In the event that any court of competent 
jurisdiction invalidates all or any portion of Section 6409 or any FCC rule that interprets 
Section 6409 such that federal law would not mandate approval for any section 6409 
approval(s), such approval(s) shall automatically expire one year from the effective date 
of the judicial order, unless the decision would not authorize accelerated termination of 
previously approved section 6409 approvals or the City grants an extension upon written 
request from the permittee that shows good cause for the extension, which includes 
without limitation extreme financial hardship. Notwithstanding anything in the previous 
sentence to the contrary, the City may not grant a permanent exemption or indefinite 
extension. A permittee shall not be required to remove its improvements approved under 
the invalidated section 6409 approval when it has obtained the applicable permit(s) or 
submitted an application for such permit(s) before the one-year period ends. 
 
3. 
City’s Standing Reserved. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a section 
6409 approval does not waive, and shall not be construed to waive, any standing by the 
City to challenge Section 6409, any FCC rules that interpret Section 6409 or any section 
6409 approval. 
 
4. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
permits required to commence construction in connection with this section 6409 approval, 
the permittee must incorporate this section 6409 approval, all conditions associated with 
this section 6409 approval and any approved photo simulations into the project plans (the 
“Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility 
in substantial compliance, as determined by the City, with the Approved Plans. Any 
alterations, modifications or other changes to the Approved Plans, whether requested by 
the permittee or required by other departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over 
the wireless facility, must be submitted in a written request subject to the City’s prior 
review and approval.  The City may revoke the section 6409 approval if the City finds that 
the requested alteration, modification or other change may cause a substantial change 
as that term is defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(7), as may be amended. 
 
5. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee commences 
full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or deemed-approved under San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the permittee shall provide the City with 
documentation reasonably acceptable to the City that the wireless facility has been 
installed and/or constructed in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Subject 
to the City’s discretion, such documentation may include, but shall not be limited to, as-
built drawings, site surveys, GIS data and site photographs. 
 
6. 
Build-Out Period. This section 6409 approval will automatically expire one (1) year from 
the approval or deemed-granted date unless the permittee obtains all other permits and 
approvals required to install, construct and/or operate the approved wireless facility, 
which includes without limitation any permits or approvals required by any federal, state 
or local public agencies with jurisdiction over the subject property, the wireless facility or 
639 of 734

--- page 640 ---
its use. The City may grant one written extension up to one (1) year when the permittee 
shows good cause to extend the limitations period in a written request for an extension 
submitted at least 30 calendar days prior to the automatic expiration date in this condition. 
 
7. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. The permittee shall keep the site, which includes 
without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, structures, access routes, fences 
and landscape features, in a neat, clean and safe condition in accordance with the 
Approved Plans and all conditions in this permit. Any concealment elements shall be kept 
in “like new” condition at all times. The permittee shall keep the site area free from all litter 
and debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and remediate 
any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 hours after the permittee receives 
notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or other vandalism occurred. The 
permittee and property owner shall maintain any and all landscape features in accordance 
with an approved landscape plan, if any, and shall replace dying or dead trees, foliage or 
other landscape elements shown on the Approved Plans within 30 calendar days after 
written notice from the City.  
 
8. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all times with all 
federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other rules that carry the force of 
law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the subject property, the wireless facility or any 
use or activities in connection with the use authorized in this section 6409 approval, which 
includes without limitation any Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The 
permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be 
broadly construed and that no other specific requirements in these conditions are 
intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the permittee’s obligations to maintain 
compliance with all Laws. In the event that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce 
compliance with any applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, 
any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or permittee will not 
be relieved from its obligation to comply in all respects with all applicable provisions in the 
San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any permit condition or any applicable law or 
regulation. 
 
9. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to this permit, the 
permittee and the property owner shall reasonably cooperate with efforts by the City to 
evaluate whether the wireless facility complies with all applicable FCC rules and 
regulations for human exposure to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to 
the City and may include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with applicable FCC 
rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as the frequencies in use, power 
output levels and antenna specifications, reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance 
with maximum permissible exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its 
designee to have supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections 
and field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City or its 
designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the foregoing. 
 
10. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all reasonable efforts to 
avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse impacts on nearby properties that may 
arise from the permittee’s or its authorized personnel’s construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. 
The permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, installation, 
operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other work that involves heavy 
equipment or machines except during normal construction hours authorized by the San 
640 of 734

--- page 641 ---
Mateo Municipal Code. The restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit any 
work required to prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any work 
during an emergency declared by the City. The City may issue a stop work order for any 
activities that violates this condition. 
 
11. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power generators only 
during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for maintenance purposes during normal 
construction hours in accordance with the San Mateo Municipal Code. The City may 
approve a temporary power source and/or generator in connection with initial 
construction, major repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not 
operate any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
12. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter onto the site and inspect the 
improvements and equipment upon reasonable prior notice to the permittee, or at any 
time during an emergency. The City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but 
will not be obligated to, enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, 
disable or remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such 
improvements or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or persons. The 
permittee, if present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee 
while any such inspection or emergency access occurs. 
 
13. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the City with accurate and 
up-to-date contact information for a person responsible for the wireless facility, which 
includes without limitation such person’s full name, title, direct telephone number, 
facsimile number, mailing address and email address. The permittee shall keep such 
contact information up to date at all times and immediately provide the City with updated 
contact information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
14. 
Indemnification. The permittee shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City, City 
Council and City boards, commissions, agents, officers, officials, employees and 
volunteers from any and all (1) damages, liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses 
and from any and all claims, demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings 
(“Claims”) brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, employees or 
volunteers to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the City’s approval 
of this section 6409 approval, and (2) other Claims of any kind or form, whether for 
personal injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in connection with the 
permittee’s or its agents’, directors’, officers’, employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, 
licensees’, or customers’ acts or omissions in connection with this section 6409 approval 
or the wireless facility. Permittee’s duty to defend and indemnify shall not apply to the 
extent such Claims are caused by the sole or active negligence or willful misconduct of 
the City.  In the event the City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts 
to promptly notify the permittee and the private property owner and shall reasonably 
cooperate in the defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
City shall have the right to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
the legal counsel providing the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee 
(as applicable) shall promptly reimburse City for any costs and expenses directly and 
necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the defense. The permittee expressly 
acknowledges and agrees that the permittee’s indemnification obligations under this 
condition are a material consideration that motivates the City to approve this section 6409 
641 of 734

--- page 642 ---
approval, and that such indemnification obligations will survive the expiration or 
revocation of this section 6409 approval. 
 
15. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any encroachment 
permit and/or other ministerial permits required to commence construction in connection 
with this section 6409 approval, the permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety 
and in a form acceptable to the City in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost 
to remove the improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate 
from a qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The written 
estimate must include the cost to remove all equipment and other improvements, which 
includes without limitation all antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, 
mounts, brackets, hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, 
footings and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or installed 
in connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely restore any areas 
affected by the removal work to a standard compliant with applicable laws. In establishing 
or adjusting the bond amount required under this condition, and in accordance with 
California Government Code § 65964(a), the City shall take into consideration any 
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to 
a standard compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall expressly survive 
the duration of the permit term to the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of 
the subject wireless facility in accordance with this condition. 
 
16. 
Recall to Approval Authority; Permit Revocation. The City may recall this section 6409 
approval for review at any time due to complaints about noncompliance with applicable 
laws or any approval conditions attached to this section 6409 approval after notice and 
an opportunity to cure the violation is provided to the permittee. If the noncompliance 
continues after notice and reasonable opportunity to cure the noncompliance, the City 
may revoke this section 6409 approval or amend these conditions as the City deems 
necessary or appropriate to correct any such noncompliance. 
 
17. 
Record Retention. The permittee must, for the duration of the permit term, maintain 
complete and accurate copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in 
connection with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all conditions 
associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or approvals issued in 
connection with this approval. In the event that the permittee does not maintain such 
records as required in this condition, any ambiguities or uncertainties that would be 
resolved through an inspection of the missing records will be construed against the 
permittee. The permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that hard 
copies or electronic records kept in the City’s regular files will control over any conflicts 
between such City-controlled copies or records and the permittee’s electronic copies, and 
complete originals will control over all other copies in any form. 
 
18. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable television 
operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities where the permittee’s 
wireless facility is located, the permittee must underground its equipment except the 
antennas and antenna supports. Such undergrounding shall occur at the permittee’s sole 
cost and expense except as reimbursed pursuant to law. 
 
19. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility provider adopts 
or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure, the permittee on its own initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall 
642 of 734

--- page 643 ---
apply to the City for permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter 
and enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
20. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the City, in its sole 
discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, width or location; (2) add, 
remove or otherwise change any improvements in, on, under or along any street owned 
by the City or any other public agency, which includes without limitation any sewers, storm 
drains, conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles and utility systems for gas, water, 
electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any other work deemed necessary, 
useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City Work”). The City reserves the rights to 
do any and all City Work without any admission on its part that the City would not have 
such rights without the express reservation in this permit. In the event that the City 
determines that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility to be rearranged and/or 
relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or cause to be done all 
things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement and/or relocation. If the permittee 
fails or refuses to either permanently or temporarily rearrange and/or relocate the 
permittee’s facility within a reasonable time after the City’s notice, the City may (but will 
not be obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be performed at the 
permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to rearrange or 
relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee when the City determines 
that the City Work is immediately necessary to protect public health or safety. The 
permittee shall reimburse the City for all costs and expenses in connection with such work 
within 10 days after a written demand for reimbursement and reasonable documentation 
to support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall indemnify, defend and hold the City, 
its agents, officers, officials, employees and volunteers harmless from and against any 
Claims in connection with rearranging or relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on 
or off any water, oil, gas, electricity or other utility service in connection with the 
permittee’s facility. 
 
21. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features damaged or displaced 
by the construction, installation, operation, maintenance or other work performed by the 
permittee or at the permittee’s direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees 
are damaged or displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to 
select, plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for the 
species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed arborist shall be 
used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and other standards for any 
replacement trees shall be subject to the City’s approval in consultation with the licensed 
arborist. The permittee shall, at all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement 
landscape features. 
 
643 of 734

--- page 644 ---
{00027262;2} 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT 
330 W. 20TH AVENUE 
SAN MATEO, CA 94403 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Approved by City Council July 16, 2018 
 
DESIGN AND ENGINEERING STANDARDS AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR 
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES ON CITY OWNED POLES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTENTS 
 
1 
Background and Purpose 
 
 
2 
2 
Design Elements 
 
 
 
4 
3 
Attachments to Streetlight Poles 
 
6 
4 
Attachments to Utility Poles  
 
8 
5 
Freestanding Small Cell Pole  
 
9 
6 
Meetings Noticing 
 
 
 
15 
 
Appendix A: Details 
 
 
 
 
Appendix B:  Flowchart 
 
 
 
 
Appendix C:  Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application 
 
Appendix D:  Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Appendix E: Standard Conditions of Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities 
 
644 of 734

--- page 645 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 2 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
 
 
The City of San Mateo seeks to permit wireless carriers to install small wireless communications 
facilities, within the public right-of-way, in order to provide robust cellular coverage and capacity 
throughout the City, while ensuring facilities are well-maintained and do not significantly detract from 
City streetscapes. 
 
The City does not regulate the technologies 
wireless carriers use, but it does have certain 
powers to regulate the time, place, manner 
and aesthetics of wireless communications 
facilities.  These requirements are intended 
only to convey design preferences that may 
not necessarily apply to every facility.   
 
These requirements also do not address pole selection.  However, the City recommends that wireless 
carriers avoid pole locations where equipment would be in front of architecturally significant features, 
or in locations where they would have visual impacts of significance, such as residential 
neighborhoods, near schools and parks. 
 
Wireless providers should be made aware of the City’s preference for installation of small cell facilities 
on City owned street lights, due to the improved aesthetic qualities of these facilities.  Wireless 
providers should work with the City to establish an agreement for the use of City owned street lights. 
Secondly, the City recommends installation in areas not zoned residential, as well as near schools or 
parks. Residential areas should be considered as the last option. 
 
These requirements are meant to provide a general overview of the procedures and requirements for 
installation of wireless telecommunications facilities on both City owned and utility poles located 
within the public right of way.  Additional conditions, information and/or procedures may be 
necessary based on the circumstances, project scope and the location being proposed by the 
applicant, or as deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works. 
 
The applicant or its successors shall comply fully with all conditions specified in these requirements, 
or as modified by the Director of Public Works.  Failure to comply with any condition shall constitute 
grounds for revocation.  In the event that RF emissions for the site exceed FCC Standards, the 
applicant will be required to immediately cease and desist operation of the facility until such time 
that the violation is corrected to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works. 
 
 
Any carrier/provider authorized by the Director of Public Works to operate a specific wireless 
communications facility installation may assign the operation of the facility to another carrier licensed 
The purpose of this document is to 
establish requirements for 
installing small cell facilities in the 
City of San Mateo’s right of way. 
645 of 734

--- page 646 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 3 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
by the CPUC and FCC for that radio frequency provided that such transfer is made known to the City 
in advance of such operation, and all conditions of approval for the subject installation are carried out 
by the new carrier/provider. 
 
Below are requirements to aid wireless providers in planning facility locations and compiling the 
necessary information to obtain a Wireless Communication Facilities permit for wireless facilities on 
poles in the public right of way.  Wireless communications providers are also directed to review and 
comply with the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10,  “Wireless Telecommunications Facilities 
in the Public Right of Way” that can be found on the City’s website. 
 
 
646 of 734

--- page 647 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 4 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
To aid in minimizing visual impacts, equipment shall be placed as follows: 
 
 Proposed installations must be the least intrusive possible with regard to appearance, size, and 
location.   If installations are available (e.g., have been installed in other jurisdictions) that are 
less intrusive than those allowed by the City’s telecommunications ordinance, applicants must 
use those installations unless the Director determines that those installations are not feasible. 
 
 Equipment shall be located within the antenna shroud and behind street signs located on the 
pole. 
 
 The wireless facility designer shall choose poles that are located outside of driveways and 
intersection sight lines. Where feasible, poles shall be located near property corners or side 
property lines, and not directly in front of residences and businesses. 
 
 Equipment shall be located entirely on the pole in a vertical arrangement.  Accessory equipment 
shall not collectively exceed 9 cubic feet in volume for Director-level review. Accessory 
equipment greater than 9 cubic feet, but not to exceed 17 cubic feet in overall volume, requires 
approval from the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (SIC). 
 
 Ground mounted equipment cabinets shall not be used, to the maximum extent possible.  If 
utilized, ground mounted equipment must be placed in a location that does not obstruct 
pedestrian or vehicular traffic and in the least conspicuous location available within a reasonable 
distance from the pole. Ground mounted equipment should be installed within an existing or 
replacement street feature including, without limitation, bus stop shelters, trash bins, benches, 
kiosks, advertisement panels or other street furniture to conceal the equipment.   
 
 All cables, wires and other connectors must be routed through conduits within pole whenever 
possible, and all external conduits, conduit attachments, cables, wires and other connectors must 
be concealed from public view to the extent feasible. 
 
 New facility installations shall not obstruct views from habitable living areas (such as bedrooms 
or living rooms) of residential units which directly face the antenna within 100 feet horizontal 
distance. 
 
 Flashing lights or large repetitive warning stickers shall not be installed. All wireless facilities 
must include signage that accurately identifies the equipment owner/operator, the 
647 of 734

--- page 648 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 5 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
owner/operator’s site name or identification number and a toll-free number to the 
owner/operator’s network operations center. Wireless facilities may not bear any other signage 
or advertisements unless expressly approved by the City, required by law or recommended 
under existing and future FCC or other United States governmental agencies for compliance 
with RF emissions regulations. RF notification signs shall be placed where appropriate, and not 
at pedestrian eye level, unless required by the FCC or other regulatory agencies. 
 
 Pole heights shall be minimized. The maximum height of any facilities mounted on an existing 
pole shall not exceed (i) the minimum separation from supply lines required by CPUC General 
Order 95 (“GO 95”), as may be amended or superseded, plus four feet or (ii) four feet above the 
height of the existing support structure. Legally required lightning arresters and beacons shall 
be included when calculating the height of facilities. 
 
 Wireless facility designers shall use PG&E Smart Meters or flat-rate billing with no electric 
meter, if available.   
 
 Small cells shall not be located on decorative streetlights. 
 
 Small cells shall not damage existing trees.  If pruning is required for the installation, a separate 
Tree Permit must be obtained from Parks and Recreation. 
 
 Fans shall not be utilized, to the maximum extent possible. 
 
 The preferred locations shall be installed in the following order from most preferred to least 
preferred: 
 
1) Manufacturing districts; 
2) Transportation corridor or transit-orientated development districts; 
3) Executive districts; 
4) Central business districts; 
5) Commercial districts; 
6) Agricultural and open space districts; 
7) Shoreline districts; 
8) Residential districts with multi-family residential uses; 
9) Residential districts with single-family residential uses. 
 
 
 
 
 
648 of 734

--- page 649 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 6 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
The following are general specifications for attachments to streetlight poles. See Appendix A for 
Standard Drawing 200. 
 
Table 3.1 – Small Cell Attachments to Streetlight Poles 
Luminaire 
Per San Mateo standards. 
Electrical Service 
Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
Separation of Service 
All new electrical conduit shall be separate. 
Shroud/Cover 
All hardware shall be hidden.  
Hand Holes 
A hand hole shall be provided at the top of the pole to maintain fiber and 
electrical service for streetlights and future attachments.  
Color 
Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing streetlight 
aesthetics, paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint. Equipment 
cabinets shall still be galvanized. 
Pole Height 
The pole height shall be measured from top of the foundation to the top of 
the antenna.  
Design Wind Velocity 
115 mph minimum per TIA-222 rev G, IBC 2012 with ASC 710, and 
amendments for local conditions. 
Foundation 
Pole foundation calculations shall be prepared and stamped by a 
professionally licensed structural engineer and shall be provided to SM for 
review. 
Antenna 
The top of the antenna shall be no higher than 48 in. above the top of the 
pole. Antennas shall be shrouded.  A tapered transition between the pole 
and antenna shall be included. Antennas shall not be mounted on the side. 
Signs 
RF notification signs shall be mounted facing the street towards the top of 
the pole. Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory 
equipment. 
Hardware 
All hardware shall be stainless steel. 
Disconnect Switch 
Disconnect switch shall be mounted 10 ft. above grade. 
Equipment Cabinet 
Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. If required, fans shall not emit noise 
higher than City standards.  Passive louvers and/or other passive 
ventilation systems shall be primary means of temperature control.  
Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities 
Act of 1990 and does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian 
or vehicular travel way. 
 
 
 
649 of 734

--- page 650 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 7 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Figure 3.1 - Example of unacceptable installation 
 
 
 
 
Antenna must include a smooth 
transition between pole and antenna 
Conduit, mounting bracket, and other 
hardware must be hidden or in a shroud 
All conduit, wires and other hardware 
shall be located internally within pole 
650 of 734

--- page 651 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 8 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
The following are general specifications for attachments to utility poles. See Appendix A for Standard 
Drawing 201. 
Table 4.1 – Small Cell Attachments to Utility Poles 
Electrical Service 
Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
Separation of Service 
All new electrical conduit shall be separate. 
Shroud/Cover 
 
All hardware shall be hidden. Only one equipment shroud, containing all 
required small cell accessory equipment, shall be installed per pole. 
Safety zones 
A 6 ft. safety zone is required per GO 95 between the top of electric supply 
lines to bottom of antenna and mounting equipment.  A 2 ft. safety zone is 
required per GO 95 between the small cell equipment and communication 
lines. 
Color 
Equipment shall be painted, treated or finished to match existing utility 
pole aesthetics, paint shall be powder coated over zinc paint. Equipment 
cabinets shall still be galvanized. 
Pole Height 
The pole height shall be measured from top of the foundation to the top of 
the antenna.  
Design Wind Velocity 
115 mph minimum per TIA-222 rev G, IBC 2012 with ASC 710, and 
amendments for local conditions. 
Foundation 
Pole foundation calculations shall be prepared and stamped by a 
professionally licensed structural engineer and shall be provided to SM for 
review. 
Antenna 
The top of the antenna shall be no higher than 48 in. above the minimum 
separation from supply lines required by GO 95. Antennas shall be 
shrouded.  A tapered transition between the pole and antenna shall be 
included. Antennas shall not be mounted on the side.  
Signs 
RF notification signs shall be mounted facing the street towards the top of 
the pole. Existing traffic signs may be relocated to screen accessory 
equipment. 
Hardware 
All hardware shall be stainless steel. 
Disconnect Switch 
Disconnect switch shall be mounted 10 ft. above grade. 
Equipment Cabinet 
Maximum dimension shall be 17 CF. If required, fans shall not emit noise 
higher than City standards.  Passive louvers and/or other passive 
ventilation systems shall be primary means of temperature control.  
Cabinets shall be located such that it meets the Americans with Disabilities 
Act of 1990 and does not obstruct, impede, or hinder the usual pedestrian 
or vehicular travel way. 
651 of 734

--- page 652 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 9 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
The following are general specifications for attachments to new freestanding small cell poles. See 
Appendix A for Standard Drawing 202A and 202B. 
 
Table 5.1 – Small Cell Attachments to Freestanding Small Cell Poles 
Electrical Service 
Per PG&E’s requirements. Smart Meters or flat-rate billing, if available. 
Pole Type 
Round, straight, galvanized steel. 
Shroud/Cover 
 
All hardware shall be hidden. Only one equipment shroud, containing all 
required small cell equipment, shall be installed per pole. Anchor bolts shall either 
be hidden from view, preferred, or treated and painted to match the pole color. 
Color 
Pole shall be galvanized in accordance with AASHTO M 111. 
Equipment shall be painted to match existing streetlight aesthetics, paint shall be 
powder coated over zinc paint. Equipment cabinets shall still be galvanized. 
Pole Height 
The pole height shall not exceed 35 feet. 
Design Wind Velocity 
115 mph minimum per TIA-222 rev G, IBC 2012 with ASC 710, and amendments 
for local conditions. 
Foundation 
Pole foundation calculations shall be prepared and stamped by a 
professionally licensed structural engineer and shall be provided to SM for 
review. While SM accepts cast-in-place foundations, precast concrete foundations 
are preferred and should be installed whenever possible. 
Conduits Sweeps 
Eight (8) 2” PVC conduit sweeps shall be required. Conduit shall accommodate 
small cell carrier electrical and fiber with up to four (4) spare sweeps for future 
service. 
Antenna 
The top of the antenna shall be no higher than 48 in. above the top of the pole. 
Antennas shall be shrouded.  A tapered transition between the pole and antenna 
shall be included. Antennas shall not be mounted on the side.  
Signs 
RF notification signs shall be mounted facing the street towards the top of the pole. 
Existing traffic signs on separate poles nearby may be relocated to small cell pole 
to screen accessory equipment. 
Hardware 
All hardware shall be stainless steel. 
Disconnect Switch 
Disconnect switch shall be mounted 10 ft. above grade. 
Equipment Cabinet 
All equipment shall be located internal to the equipment cabinet or 
recessed as much as possible in the equipment cabinet to meet Utility 
Requirements. All equipment shall be mounted per the Owner’s requirements. 
Pole bases shall be sized to handle the listed equipment and all other equipment 
required by the Owner. 
652 of 734

--- page 653 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 10 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Placement Requirements 
 
All freestanding small cell poles shall be privately owned and must be permitted by San Mateo. 
Freestanding poles shall not be approved except as provided in San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
17.10.100(d). If approved, freestanding poles shall be placed in accordance with the following 
requirements: 
 
 In a manner that does not impede, obstruct, or hinder pedestrian or vehicular travel. 
 
 So as not to be located along the frontage of a Historic building, deemed historic on a federal, 
state, or local level. 
 
 So as not to significantly create a new obstruction to property sight lines. 
 
 At the intersection of property lines, or along secondary property street facing. 
 
 Within the street amenity zone whenever possible. 
 
 In alignment with existing trees, utility poles, and streetlights. 
 
 Equal distance between trees when possible, with a minimum of 15 feet separation such that no 
proposed disturbance shall occur within the critical root zone of any tree. 
 
 With appropriate clearance from existing utilities. 
 
 Outside of the 20-foot equipment clear zone (for base cabinets less than 18-inches in diameter) 
or 30-foot clear sight triangle (for base cabinets equal to or greater than 18-inches in diameter) 
at intersection corners as shown in Figure 5-7. 
 
 10 feet away from the triangle extension of an alley way flare. 
 
 Shall not be located within 100 feet of the apron of a fire station or other adjacent emergency 
service facility. 
 
 No closer than 250 feet away, radially, from another privately-owned freestanding small cell. 
 
 Avoid placement in residential areas, near schools, and parks. 
 
 
653 of 734

--- page 654 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 11 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
Figure 5.1 – Freestanding Small Cell Spacing Radius 
 
 
 
 
Freestanding poles shall be located a 
minimum of 250 feet from other 
freestanding poles 
Existing streetlights and utility pole 
locations do not affect the placement of 
freestanding poles.  Minimum 250 feet 
does not apply. 
654 of 734

--- page 655 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 12 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
Figure 5.2 – Freestanding Small Cell in Amenity Zone 
 
 
 
Freestanding small cells shall be located such that they in no way impede, obstruct, or hinder the 
usual pedestrian or vehicular travel, affect public safety, obstruct the legal access to or use of the 
public ROW, violate applicable law, violate or conflict with public ROW design standards, 
specifications, or design district requirements, violate the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 
1990, or in any way create a risk to public health, safety, or welfare. Free standing small cells shall be 
located within the ROW and off set from the sidewalk as shown in Figure 5.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
655 of 734

--- page 656 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 13 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Figure 5.3 – Standalone Small Cell Sight-Line Requirements 
 
         
 
 
Freestanding small cells shall be located at intersecting property lines as much as possible. Whenever 
possible, the freestanding small cell shall be located on the secondary street. Do not locate small cell in 
clear sight triangle.  Small cells shall also be located a minimum of 15 feet away from trees to prevent 
disturbance within the critical root zone of any tree. The small cells shall not be installed between the 
perpendicular extension of the primary street-facing wall plane of any single or two-family residence 
as shown in Figure 5-4. 
 
Figure 5.4 – Freestanding Small Cell Location between Property Lines 
656 of 734

--- page 657 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 14 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Figure 5.5 – Small Cell in Commercial Area 
 
 
When located adjacent to a commercial establishment, such as a shop or restaurant, care should be 
taken to locate the small cell such that it does not negatively impact the business. Small cells shall not 
be located in-front of store front windows, primary walkways, primary entrances or exits, or in such a 
way that it would impede a delivery to the building. Small cells should be located between properties 
as much as possible as shown above. Small cells shall match the architecture of the surrounding 
neighborhood.  The City shall have the authority to mandate the color and other aesthetics of small cell 
installations consistent with the City’s design preferences and the requirements in San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
 
657 of 734

--- page 658 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 15 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
Meeting with City Staff 
Prior to submittal of an application, applicants are required to meet with City staff in order to present 
the scope, location, and types of poles utilized.  Applicants can ask questions regarding the permit 
application and checklist requirements.  The meeting is required for projects subject to a major wireless 
permit; that involve the deployment of more than 5 proposed installations; modification requests to 
existing concealed facilities pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 1455 (“Section 6409”); and recommended for all 
others.  
 
Meeting with Community 
After meeting with City staff and prior to submittal of an application, applicants are required to hold 
a community meeting for sites located in or within 500 feet from a residential zone. The neighborhood 
meeting is only required if timely requested by a resident after the mailed notice. 
 
The purpose of the community meeting is for the applicant to explain the proposal to the surrounding 
property owners, residents, business owners, neighborhood associations, and interested persons and 
receive their input. This meeting should accomplish three main goals:  
1. Establishment of a positive dialogue between the applicant and the surrounding property 
owners and residents, business owners, neighborhood associations and interested parties. 
2. Allow for project modification early in the process based on feedback. 
3. Avoid further delays due to projects that may be inconsistent with the City’s standards.  
 
As the applicant, you host and conduct the meeting; Public Works staff will be present as a resource 
only.  
 
Public Works staff will work with you to select a date, time, and location for the neighborhood meeting 
based on the following requirements: 
 Meetings must be held on Monday through Thursdays starting at either 7:00 p.m. or 7:30 p.m. 
and held at the project site, in a City or School District facility, or a similar public venue located 
within the project vicinity with sufficient parking and ADA access. 
 
Meetings cannot be held on the following dates: 
 Evenings of City Council or any City Commission meetings. Please check the city’s website at 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=60 
and 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?nid=192 for the City Council, Sustainability and 
Infrastructure Commission, Parks and Recreation Commission, Community Relations 
Commission, and Planning Commission meeting dates. 
 
 Legal holidays, common religious holidays or during the week of Thanksgiving and December 
15th-January 1st. 
658 of 734

--- page 659 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 16 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
Public Works staff will work with you to coordinate a public notice for the community meeting. 
Typically, the City will mail this notice, as the City generally prefers that a single notice be mailed that 
contains both the community meeting date and tentative Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
meeting date. The notices must be mailed via first class mail a minimum of 15 calendar days prior to 
the meeting. 
 
A posted notice shall be placed in a conspicuous location at or near the proposed site. 
 
The meeting notice(s) are required to be mailed to the following groups on the City’s official public 
noticing lists: 
 Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 500 feet of the project site. 
 
 The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood 
Associations, local utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide projects. 
 
 The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City 
regarding this site or project or requested to be added to the project notification list. 
 
The applicant is responsible for bringing presentation-sized graphics of the conceptual project plans, 
including at minimum an existing and proposed site plan and exterior elevations of all sides of the 
proposed facility, as well as a mock-up of the proposed installation. You may wish to provide 
refreshments for the meeting participants (no alcoholic beverages please). 
 
Public Works staff will provide the meeting sign in sheet. Please have all attendees sign in to ensure a 
complete record of attendees, including City staff and all members of the project team. Attendees are 
asked to provide their email and/or mailing address for future notices. A member of the applicant’s 
team must take detailed notes from the meeting and prepare a Meeting Summary. Public Works staff 
will provide you with a sample Meeting Summary to replicate. 
 
The meeting agenda generally consists of the following: 
 Public Works staff will typically open the meeting by describing the purpose of the meeting and 
introducing the project applicants. Public Works staff will remain throughout the meeting to 
answer any questions regarding small cell standards and the application process. 
 
 The applicant will then manage the remainder of the meeting. The applicant’s presentation on 
the proposed project should include a description of the purpose of the installation, the way the 
design has responded to various aesthetic issues and important design features. The applicant 
should then open the discussion to the residents, being available to answer questions or take 
comments. If questions are raised related to the application process or City regulations that are 
more appropriately answered by City staff, he or she will answer those questions. 
 
659 of 734

--- page 660 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 17 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 Once discussion has finished, the Public Works staff will typically close the meeting by 
describing the next steps in the process. No official action may be taken by the City at any 
community meeting. 
 
The applicant must prepare and distribute a written summary of the meeting within one week of the 
meeting. The Meeting Summary should include a list of attendees, the major issues raised, any 
questions and answers discussed during the meeting. Please send the draft meeting summary and the 
sign-in sheet to Public Works staff who attended the meeting for final editing. The City will post the 
meeting summary on-line on the City’s website. The applicant is responsible for emailing the meeting 
summary to all the meeting attendees who provided an email address. The applicant is responsible for 
mailing the Meeting Summary via USPS to the mailing address provided for those attendees without 
email. 
 
Post Meeting Noticing 
After the required community meetings are held notice shall be provided in accordance with San Mateo 
Municipal Code Section 17.10.060, as applicable based on the permit required.  Property owners shall 
be notified by registered mail via the U.S. Postal Service. 
 
The notice will provide a description of the proposed facility and a map identifying the proposed 
location of the cabinet, if any.  In addition, photo simulations of the proposed equipment and site are 
to be included.  The notification shall also include a telephone number or email address for the 
Applicant’s Community Liaison, with whom property owners can contact with questions or concerns 
regarding the facility.  The Applicant’s Community Liaison shall reply to all inquirers within 48 hours 
of contact.  Additionally, the notification shall include a contact number for the Public Works 
Department (650) 520-7300 - so that property owners can contact the City directly, if they so prefer.  
The applicant shall log all contact with property owners, which shall include the date, owner/resident’s 
name, address and the specific questions or concerns the owner/resident has regarding the facility.  The 
applicant shall inform the Public Works Department of all inquiries received during the notification 
period, so that the Public Works Department may assess the comments and concerns regarding the 
application, and work with the applicant to address these concerns to the maximum extent practicable. 
 
The applicant will provide to the City a mailing list for both owners and tenants (occupant designation 
for tenants is acceptable) to be notified of the proposed facility installation. 
 
In addition, a posted notice in accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 17.10.060, as 
applicable, shall be placed in a conspicuous location at or near the proposed site. 
660 of 734

--- page 661 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 18 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
 
Appendix A – Details 
 
Drawing 200 – Telecommunication Facilities on Street Lights Poles 
Drawing 201 – Telecommunication Facilities on Utility Poles 
Drawing 202A – Telecommunication Facilities on Freestanding Pole 
Drawing 202B – Pull/Splice Box Typical Dimensions 
 
 
  
  
 
661 of 734

--- page 662 ---
(N) OMNI-DIRECTIONAL
ANTENNA TO BE
INSTALLED
(N) ANTENNA SHROUD. SEE. SEE GN-4,
PG&E
UTILITY BULLETIN TD-027911B-004,
GENERAL INFORMATION NOTE #2.
(N) PG&E SMART METER
(E) SPUN ALUMINUM POLE & MAST
ARM, PER CITY STANDARDS
(N) FCC RF NOTICE SIGNAGE
(2) (N) 1/2" DIA, COAX
CABLES ROUTED INSIDE POLE
(N) UE RELAY, BAND MOUNTED TO POLE
(PAINTED TO MATCH POLE)
(N) 1/2" DIA. ARMORED ETHERNET CABLING
(N) RADIO,
BAND MOUNTED TO POLE
(N) DISCONNECT SWITCH
BAND MOUNTED TO POLE
(N) 1/2" POWER CABLE TO BE
ROUTED IN EXISTING STREET
LIGHT CONDUIT INSIDE POLE
(N) 7 AMP IN-LINE FUSE
WITHIN PG&E N16 BOX
(N) POINT OF CONTACT TO BE UTILIZED FOR
POWER VIA STREET LIGHT PULLBOX TO
INTERCEPT EXISTING POWER, SEE GN-4
STREET, PG&E UTILITY BULLETIN
TD-027911B-004, GENERAL INFORMATION
NOTE #3
(E) CONCRETE SIDEWALK
(E) POLE FOUNDATION
NOTES:
1.
ALL HARDWARE SHALL BE STAINLESS STEEL.
2.
ALL CABLES SHALL BE LOCATED INSIDE POLE.
3.
ALL EQUIPMENT SYSTEM COMPONENTS SHOULD BE
PAINTED TO MATCH EXISTING POLE.
4.
EXISTING TRAFFIC SIGNS TO BE RELOCATED AS
REQUIRED
    TO SCREEN REMOTE RADIO UNITS.
5.   APPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT CALCULATIONS FOR POLE
    FOUNDATION.
TBD IN FIELD
TOP OF ANTENNA
BOTTOM OF ANTENNA
TOP OF (E) POLE
(N) ALL WEATHER GASKET
(10 MIL OR HIGHER),
CUT TO FIT AND INSERTED
IN OPENING AT LUMINAIRE.
CL OF (N) UE RELAY
CL OF (N) RADIO HEAD
10'-0"
BOTTOM OF DISCONNECT
SWITCH
48" MAX
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
5'-0"
30"
GRADE
DATE
DRAWN BY
CHECKED BY
APPROVED
CASE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
CALIFORNIA 94403
DRAWER
SET
CITY ENGINEER
2018
JAG
TAS
03
01
200
T
A
R
F
I
I
N
C
O
R
P
O
C
A
L
O
A
F
S
I
O
Y
T
C
R
9
4
E
D
1
8
I
A
N
N
T
O
E
M
A
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES ON 
STREET LIGHT POLES
662 of 734

--- page 663 ---
BOTTOM OF (N) DISCONNECT
7'-0"
TOP OF (N) LOAD CENTER AND FIBER DISTRIBUTION PANEL
TOP OF (N) REMOTE RADIO UNIT 32
TOP OF (N) DIPLEXERS
18'-0"
(N) 2'-0" COMMUNICATIONS
SAFETY ZONE PER GO95
TOP OF (E) BOX
TOP OF (E) CROSSARM
TOP OF (E) ANCHOR POINT (BACKSIDE OF POLE)
TOP OF (E) INSULATORS
TOP OF (E) CROSSARM
TOP OF (E) WOOD UTILITY POLE
RAD CENTER OF (N) ANTENNA
TOP OF (N) ANTENNA
VARIES PER SITE
(N) RF WARNING SIGN
FACING STREET
(N) ANTENNA MOUNTED TO
 EXTENSION ON TOP OF (E)
UTILITY POLE
 DIPLEXERS
(2) (N) REMOTE RADIO UNIT-32 WITH
PSU-08 MOUNTED TO (E)
WOOD POLE
(N) GROUND BAR
(N) ELECTRIC LOAD CENTER
(N) DISCONNECT SWITCH
(N) FIBER DISTRIBUTION PANEL
CABINETS
NOT TO EXCEED
17 CUBIC FEET
REQUIRES SIC APPROVAL
(NOT RECOMMENDED)
GROUND
18'-0"
7'-0"
UTILITY LINE
VARIES PER SITE
(N) PG&E SMART METER
TOP OF (N) REMOTE RADIO UNIT 32
TOP OF (N) DISCONNECT
NOTES:
1.
ALL CABLES SHALL BE SECURED TO POLE
EVERY 36" OR LESS. CABLES SHALL BE
LOCATED IN CONDUIT.
2. EXISTING TRAFFIC SIGNS TO BE RELOCATED
AS REQUIRED TO SCREEN REMOTE RADIO
UNITS.
3. APPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT CALCULATIONS
FOR POLE FOUNDATION.
4. BATTERY BACKUP SHALL BE POLE MOUNTED.
(N) 6'-0" POWER SAFETY
ZONE PER GO95
TBD IN FIELD
>35' REQUIRES PWC
APPROVAL
≤35' REQUIRES PW DIRECTOR
APPROVAL
48" MAX
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
TBD IN FIELD
DATE
DRAWN BY
CHECKED BY
APPROVED
CASE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
CALIFORNIA 94403
DRAWER
SET
CITY ENGINEER
2018
JAG
TAS
03
01
201
T
A
R
F
I
I
N
C
O
R
P
O
C
A
L
O
A
F
S
I
O
Y
T
C
R
9
4
E
D
1
8
I
A
N
N
T
O
E
M
A
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES ON 
UTILITY POLES
663 of 734

--- page 664 ---
30 FT. STANDARD
30'-0"
(N) FOUNDATION WITH BREAKAWAY BASE
FINAL GRADE
(N) 2" PVC (MIN.)
(N) PROVIDE (1) TYPE 1,2 OR 3
PULL PLICE BOX
ADJACENT TO EACH POLE.
3' MIN.
5'-8"
MAX.)
(N) ELECTRICAL
CONDUIT
2" PVC (MIN.)
NOTES:
1.
ALL ANCHOR BOLT HARDWARE SHALL BE
CONCEALED.
2.
ALL ELECTRICAL WIRING AND FIBER IN UPPER POLE
SHALL BE SEPARATED BY OWNER.
3.
ALL SMALL CELL EQUIPMENT SHALL BE HOUSED
INTERNAL TO THE EQUIPMENT CABINET OR HIDDEN
BEHIND THE ANTENNA.
4.
APPLICANT SHALL SUBMIT CALCULATIONS FOR POLE
FOUNDATION.
LOADS:
A. WIND LOAD SHALL BE 115 MPH ULTIMATE.
B. MAXIMUM DEAD LOAD AT TOP OF FOUNDATION 
    (INCLUDING POLE, POLE BASE, ANTENNA & 
            EQUIPMENT) IS ASSUMED TO BE 2600 LBS.
C. AASH TO RISK CATEGORY WITH MCAN
  
     RECURRENCE  INTERVAL=700Y.
5.
ANY HARDSCAPE SHALL BE REPLACE IN FULL PANELS
OF SAME TYPE, COLOR, SIZE AS BEFORE.
6.
SEPARATE CONDUIT SHALL BE PROVIDED FOR
STREETLIGHT ELECTRICAL CONDUIT, CITY FIBER,
SMALL CELL ELECTRICAL CONDUIT & SMALL CELL
CARRIER FIBER.
7.
ALL CONDUIT, LANDSCAPE RESTORATION, ASPHALT
RESTORATION & CONCRETE RESTORATION SHALL BE
INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH CITY STANDARDS.
8.
ALL FOUNDATIONS SHALL HAVE GROUNDING IN
CONFORMANCE WITH NEC.
9.
ANCHOR BOLTS, ANCHOR PLATE, NUTS & WASHERS
SHALL BE GALVANIZED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ASTMA153.
(N) ANTENNA
(14" DIA. MAX.)
(N) PG&E SMART METER
(N) UPPER POLE
(10" DIA. PREFERRED)
(N) TYPICAL FREESTANDING SMALL CELL
STANDARD. GALVANIZED STRAIGHT STEEL
POLE.
COLOR:
UNPAINTED GALVANIZED (OR
PAINTED OVER GALVANIZED TO MATCH
EXISTING STREETLIGHTS).
(N) EQUIPMENT CABINET
16" DIA. PREFERRED
DATE
DRAWN BY
CHECKED BY
APPROVED
CASE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
CALIFORNIA 94403
DRAWER
SET
CITY ENGINEER
2018
JAG
TAS
03
01
202A
T
A
R
F
I
I
N
C
O
R
P
O
C
A
L
O
A
F
S
I
O
Y
T
C
R
9
4
E
D
1
8
I
A
N
N
T
O
E
M
A
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES ON 
FREESTANDING POLE
664 of 734

--- page 665 ---
W
L
D
CW
CL
IDL
IDW
PULL BOX PLICE BOX - COMPOSITE
MINIMUM DIMENSIONS
TYPE 1
TYPE 2
TYPE 3
L
W
D
I D L
I D W
C L
C W
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
L
W
D
I D L
I D W
C L
C W
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
L
W
D
I D L
I D W
C L
C W
=
=
=
=
=
=
=
20"
13"
12"
17"
10"
18"
11"
25"
15"
12"
21"
11"
23"
13"
32"
19"
12"
28"
15"
30"
17"
CITY ELECTRIC
NOTES:
1.
BOX COVERS MUST BE POLYMER CONCRETE WITH FIBERGLASS REINFORCEMENT,
INCIDENTAL TRAFFIC RATED TO TIER 22 AND BOLTED. PG&E PULL BOXLICE BOX SHALL
BE TIER 8 RATED.
2.
BOX COVERS SHALL BE LABELED AS FOLLOWS:
··
PULL BOXES CONTAINING STREETLIGHT ELECTRIC SERVICE SHALL BE LABELED
"STREETLIGHT"
··
PULL BOXES CONTAINING CITY FIBER SHALL BE LABELED "CITY FIBER"
··
PULL BOXES CONTAINING SMALL CELL CARRIER FIBER SHALL BE LABELED WITH
THE NAME OF THE CARRIER. LABELING MUST BE CAST INTO THE COVER AND NOT
A SEPARATE INDEPENDENT TAG.
3.
PULL AND JUNCTION BOXES AND CONDUIT BODIES MINIMUM SIZE FOR BOX SIZE
REQUIREMENTS BASED ON CONDUIT AND WIRE SIZES.
4.
THE WIRE TERMINATIONS IN THIS BOX SHALL BE MADE USING SUBMERSIBLE
INSULATED PEDESTAL LUG CONNECTIONS. PROVIDE ONE MULTI-LUG CONNECTOR FOR
EACH PHASE, NEUTRAL AND GROUND CONDUCTOR TO BE SPLICED IN THIS IN-GRADE
SPLICE BOX.
5.
REFER TO PG&E FOR PGE PULL BOX / SPLICE REQUIREMENTS.
DATE
DRAWN BY
CHECKED BY
APPROVED
CASE
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
CALIFORNIA 94403
DRAWER
SET
CITY ENGINEER
2018
JAG
TAS
03
01
202B
T
A
R
F
I
I
N
C
O
R
P
O
C
A
L
O
A
F
S
I
O
Y
T
C
R
9
4
E
D
1
8
I
A
N
N
T
O
E
M
A
PULL BOX / SPLICE BOX TYPICAL DIMENSIONS
665 of 734

--- page 666 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 23 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Appendix B – Flowchart  
 
 
666 of 734

--- page 667 ---
Applicant
Proposes
Telecom
Facilities
Flowchart for installation of Wireless
Telecommunication Facilities in the public right of way
(in compliance with SMMC 17.10)
Deemed
Complete?
Yes
No
Applicant
must
resubmit
Shot Clock Requirements
-Shot clock starts at app submittal
-Staff may deem the app incomplete within 30
days upon submittal and within 10 days upon
resubmittal
-Staff has 60 days process 6409 apps from
submittal date
-Staff has 90 days to process non-6409
collocation apps from submittal date
-Staff has 150 days to process new apps from
submittal date
-Shot clocks may be paused if the app is timely
deemed incomplete
Pre app meeting required if:
(1) If more than ﬁve facilities
(2) If major wireless permit
requested
(3) If Section 6409 request to an
existing concealed facility
If in residential zone, applicant
shall conduct neighborhood
meeting prior to submittal.
Applicant shall mail/post notice
to all residents within 500' of
proposed location 15 days prior 
  Type of Permit?
            MINOR PERMIT
-Director of PW Approval
-Shrouded/camouﬂaged facility
located on existing pole in
PROW < 9 cf 
PW reviews application for
completeness.  Application
requirements shall comply with
SMMC 17.10.050 & the Design
& Engineering Standards
           SECTION 6409
-Staff Approval
-Modiﬁcations of existing
facilities that do not substantially
change size
-Approved or Denied
-No noticing
-Applicant may appeal
            MAJOR PERMIT
-PWC Approval
-Shrouded/camouﬂaged facility
located on existing pole in PROW
> 9 cf
-New pole
Director reviews application
     Approved?
PW processes permit for
installation
Applicant or any interested
party can appeal to PWC
within 10 days after decision
by Director
Yes
No
     Approved?
Yes
No
Applicant
must
resubmit
PW can remove facilities in
accordance with COA and/or
code enforcement action
Permit is good for 10 years.
Extension must be requested
within 90 days of expiring
   Complete
License agreement is required for
City owned poles. Utility pole
applications must submit franchise
agreement
Mailed/Posted notice to
properties within 500'.  Final
Approval after 10 days
Applicant can appeal to City
Council within 10 days after
decision by PWC
Public hearing scheduled with
PWC. Mailed/Posted notices
to properties within 500'
     Approved?
PW processes permit for
installation
Applicant or any interested
party can appeal to City
Council within 10 days after
decision by PWC
Yes
No
Yes
No
Applicant
must
resubmit
PW can remove facilities in
accordance with COA and/or
code enforcement action
Permit is good for 10 years.
Extension must be requested
within 90 days of expiring
   Complete
Mailed/Posted notice to
properties within 500'.  Final
Approval after 10 days
     Approved?
   Complete
*
*
*
Not required for 6409 apps
667 of 734

--- page 668 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 25 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Appendix C:  Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application 
 
 
668 of 734

--- page 669 ---
Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
  
 
Created: May 2018 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities  
Permit Application 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application, the Application Checklist and all other 
required materials in the Design and Engineering, a meeting with staff is 
required.  Some projects may require a community meeting as well.  
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Authorized Representative: 
Name: ___________________________________________________________ 
Company: ________________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ___________________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: ____________________________________________________ 
Phone: ____________________________ Fax: __________________________ 
E-mail:  __________________________________________________________ 
Property Owner (or pole owner if project is located in the ROW): 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Property Owner’s Signature: 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Applicant’s Signature: (if different from Property Owner) 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Printed Name: _________________________________ Date: _______________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ________________________________________________________      Pole Number a:_____________________________________ 
Zoning District (for ROW, provide nearest zoning district): ________________________________     a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Project Description: __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  MINOR PERMIT        □  MAJORPERMIT       □  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL            □   OTHER (describe request below) 
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
Applicable Shot Clock Period (for informational purposes only):        □  60 days        □   90 days       □  150 days        □   OTHER: __________ 
STAFF USE ONLY 
Pre-Application Meeting Date ______________________________________ 
Community Meeting Date _________________________________________ 
 
Application Submittal Date ________________________________________ 
Completeness Review DUE (30 days) ________________________________ 
669 of 734

--- page 670 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 27 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Appendix D:  Wireless Communications Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
 
 
670 of 734

--- page 671 ---
{00025055;2} 
 
 
 Public Works Department 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7300 
 
Engineering Division 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA  94403 
 
 
Created: May 2018 
 
 
Wireless Communications Facilities 
Permit Application Checklist 
 
INSTRUCTIONS:  
Prior to submittal of this Application Checklist, Application and all other 
required materials in the Design and Engineering, a meeting with staff is 
required.  Some projects may require a community meeting as well.  
 
City staff may deem the application incomplete if the applicant fails to include 
any required information or materials. Applications shall comply with SMMC 
17.10. 
 
All starred (*) items in the checklist below are not required for a Section 
6409 Approval. 
 
Applicants may submit applications by appointment only. Please contact the 
Public Works Department for an appointment. 
 
Applicant: 
Name: ______________________________________________________ 
Company: ___________________________________________________ 
Mailing Address: ______________________________________________ 
City, State, Zip: _______________________________________________ 
Phone: __________________________ Fax: _______________________ 
E-mail:  _____________________________________________________ 
Proposed Site Location and Description: 
Proposed Project Address: ___________________________________________ 
Project Description: _________________________________________________ 
Pole Number a:_____________________________________________________ 
a If in the ROW, provide the pole number for the streetlight or pole. 
Applicant’s Request: 
□  MINOR PERMIT     □  MAJOR PERMIT    □  OTHER (describe request below)   
□  SECTION 6409 APPROVAL           __________________________________ 
 
APPLICATION CHECKLIST – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
 NEIGBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY*  
(if applicable) 
 
 APPLICATION FORM AND FEE 
 
 PROJECT PLANS 
 
 PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
 
 PRIOR PERMITS & REGULATORY 
APPROVALS 
 
 PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
 
 INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
 
 RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
 NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
 SECTION 6409 EVALUATION (if applicable) 
 
 
 
 PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL 
OBJECTIVES INFORMATION* 
 
 ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
 
STAFF USE ONLY 
 
 
 
671 of 734

--- page 672 ---
{00025055;2}     
City of San Mateo 
Page 2 of 9 
Revised May 2018 
 
Public Works Department 
 
Engineering Division 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
330 West 20th Avenue 
pweng@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
(650) 522-7300 
 
 
APPLICATION GUIDELINES – REQUIRED MATERIALS 
 
The following Application Guidelines contain the requirements for a complete wireless facility permit 
application. For the application to be deemed complete, the applicant must submit all the applicable 
application materials in the Application Checklist in accordance with the Application Guidelines along with 
all other generally applicable materials required for the requested permit or approval. See the City’s 
website or inquire with the Public Works Department for any generally applicable application materials not 
contained in this application. 
 
Notes: All starred (*) items are not required for a Section 6409 Approval. After the City issues the 
requested permit, the applicant must obtain all other required permits (including, without limitation and as 
applicable, building, electrical, plumbing, encroachment, etc.) prior to performing the installation. 
 
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING SUMMARY* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a summary of neighborhood meeting if 
applicable. Label the summary as “Attachment 1 – Neighborhood Meeting Summary” and attach it to 
the application. 
 
APPLICATION FORM AND FEE 
 
Instructions: Complete the Wireless Facilities Permit Application Cover Page available on the City’s 
website or at the Public Works Department, and submit the corresponding application fee for the 
requested permit or approval. You may find the City’s fee schedule on the City’s website or contact the 
Public Works Department for appropriate filing fees. 
 
PROJECT PLANS 
 
Instructions: Provide two sets of complete 24 x 36-inch project plans drawn to a scale of not less than 
1/16" equals one foot and a digital file of such plans in portable document format (PDF). Project plans 
must contain all the following:  
 
1. Cover Sheet 
 
A complete cover sheet must include at a minimum: 
 
 a detailed project description that specifies the proposed installation and/or modifications 
including without limitation all physical elements such as antennas, radios, power services, all 
cables, mounts, and all other elements of the proposed project 
 
 site information that includes the proposed site address, site latitude and longitude (WGS 84 
datum), zoning classification of the nearest private property, project team contact information  
site map, and pole number (if applicable) 
 
672 of 734

--- page 673 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 3 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
2. Site Survey 
 
Only a California-registered Civil Engineer or licensed surveyor may prepare the site survey. A complete 
site survey must include: 
 
 property and right-of-way boundaries with all bearings, distances, monuments, iron rods, caps 
or other markers clearly shown and called out 
 
 boundaries for all easements and/or dedications with all dimensions clearly shown and called 
out 
 
 approximate topographical contour lines with elevations called out 
 
 any trees at least 4 inches in diameter at a point approximately 4.5 feet above ground 
 
 all structures or improvements on the property or within the right of way within any block 
partially or entirely occupied by the project and any elements thereof 
 
 all structures or improvements on adjacent parcels within 15 feet from the property line 
 
 a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
 
 wet stamp and wet signature from the licensed preparer 
 
 general specifications and notes identifying the applicable public health and safety codes and 
standards 
 
3. Site Development Plan 
 
A complete site development plan must include: 
 
 plan-view drawings, which include: 
 
 the entire property or right-of-way block with the proposed project improvements 
 
 detailed before-and-after views for any equipment pads, enclosures, cabinets, 
pedestals and/or vaults 
 
 all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership 
identifications clearly called out 
 
 boundaries for all easements, encroachments and/or other rights-of-way for access 
and utilities in connection with the wireless site with all dimensions clearly shown and 
called out 
 
 all existing and proposed primary and backup utilities, including without limitation all 
cables, connectors, risers, conduits, cable shrouds, trays, bridges and/or doghouses, 
transformers, disconnect switches, panels, meters, pedestals, cabinets, vaults, 
generators and/or generator sockets  
 
673 of 734

--- page 674 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 4 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
 detailed before-and-after elevation drawings from all four cardinal directions, which include: 
 
 all existing and proposed structures, improvements and/or fixtures with all dimensions 
clearly called out 
 
 all existing and proposed equipment with all dimensions, labels and ownership 
identifications clearly called out 
 
 all existing and proposed fiber optic cables, conduits, risers, guy wires, anchors, 
primary and secondary power lines clearly called out 
 
 callouts and notes for any proposed new or extended concealment elements 
 
 a north arrow, date, scale and legend 
 
4. Equipment Inventory 
 
The equipment inventory does not need to include primary utility cables, panels or cabinets, or any other 
objects not primarily designed or intended for radio communications purposes. All other equipment must 
be inventoried with the following information for each component: 
 
 manufacturer and model number 
 
 basic dimensions (height, width, length and weight) 
 
5. Traffic Control Plans 
 
For facilities with traffic impacts to the public right-of-way, provide two copies of engineered traffic control 
plans that show the traffic control for the project and a digital file of such plans in portable document 
format (PDF). The plans must be drawn in accordance with the latest version of the CA MUTCD by a 
registered California civil engineer or traffic engineer. The preparer’s stamp and signature must be shown 
on the plans. 
 
6. Fiber Network Plan 
 
For facilities proposed to be located in the public right-of-way, and to the extent that the project requires 
running new fiber optic cables to the proposed node, the plans must include a street map view that shows 
all the proposed nodes in the deployment, clearly labeled with pole number and/or site ID, the hub or base 
station that serves the nodes in the deployment, all fiber optic cable routes that connect the nodes to the 
hub, and a legend that identifies any symbols, colors or other items on the map. The fiber plans should 
clearly identify all meet-me points and points of connection. Even if the fiber deployment will be performed 
by a third-party vendor, the applicant for wireless nodes must disclose all known or reasonably 
foreseeable fiber network elements. A separate utility encroachment permit will be required for fiber 
installation. 
 
PHOTO SIMULATIONS 
 
Instructions: Provide photo simulations of the proposed project as constructed. The photo simulations 
must be in a high resolution format and show the proposed facility from reasonable line-of-sight locations 
that would accurately and reliably reflect the appearance of the proposed facility and/or modifications as-
built. Label these photo simulations “Attachment 2 – Photo Simulations” and attach them to this 
674 of 734

--- page 675 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 5 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
application. Except as otherwise provided, photo simulations must contain all the following: 
 
1.  Current Site Photographs 
 
Current site photographs must include: 
 
 photographs of the existing site from at least three different reasonable line-of-sight locations 
from public streets or other adjacent viewpoints 
 
 a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the 
direction to the site from each photo location 
 
2. Photo Simulations 
 
Photo simulations must include: 
 
 an accurate and reliable visual representation of the proposed facility from the same 
reasonable line-of-sight locations used in the current site photographs and must include 
without limitation all interconnecting cables, conduits, brackets, and electronic equipment 
such as antennas, radio units, powering, and the like 
 
 a map detail showing each location where a photograph was taken, the proposed site and the 
direction to the site from each photo location 
 
3. Concealment Maintenance  
 
For Section 6409 Approval applications, the applicant must provide at least one photo simulation that 
demonstrates the impact of the proposed modification on the all the concealment elements of the support 
structure. Concealment elements include but are not limited to radomes, cable shrouds, painting, 
landscaping, equipment enclosures and designs and/or techniques intended to blend with the surrounding 
built and/or natural environment. 
 
PRIOR PERMITS AND REGULATORY APPROVALS 
 
Instructions: Provide true and correct copies of all the following: 
 
1. Prior Permits 
 
If the applicant requests a Section 6409 Approval, provide copies of all prior local regulatory approvals 
(original siting permits and any modification permits) issued for the facility with any corresponding 
conditions of approval and project plans approved by the applicable regulatory authority. Alternatively, the 
applicant may submit a written justification that sets forth the reasons why prior regulatory approvals were 
not required for the wireless facility at the time it was constructed or modified. Label this documentation 
“Attachment 2a – Prior Permits” and attach it to this application.  
 
2. FCC Licenses 
 
If the applicant or service provider proposes to operate in FCC-licensed spectrum, provide proof of 
licenses for all planned operating bands. If there are federal build-out requirements, indicate which and 
whether they have been fully satisfied. If not satisfied, indicate what remains to be satisfied. Label this 
documentation “Attachment 2b – FCC Licenses” and attach it to this application. 
675 of 734

--- page 676 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 6 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
 
3. FAA Forms 
 
If the proposed facility requires the applicant to file FAA form 7460 or other documentation under Federal 
Aviation Regulation Part 77.13 et seq., or under the FCC rules, provide such documentation. Label this 
documentation “Attachment 2c – FAA Forms” and attach it to this application. 
 
4. Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) / Wireless ID Registration (WIR) 
 
For all applications for facilities in the public right-of-way, provide a true and correct copy of the applicant’s 
CPCN and/or WIR issued by the California Public Utilities Commission or its successor agency. Label this 
documentation “Attachment 2d – CPCN / WIR” and attach it to this application. 
 
PROPERTY OWNER’S AUTHORIZATION 
 
Instructions: Provide a letter of authorization that authorizes the applicant to perform the installation or 
modification. The letter must be executed by the owner of the subject real property or, if the facility is 
proposed to be located in the public right-of-way (i.e. utility pole, streetlight, traffic signal, etc.), the owner 
of the support structure. The property owner’s signature must be duly notarized. In lieu of a letter of 
authorization for facilities in the public right-of-way, the applicant may submit the property owner’s 
standard authorization form issued in the property owner’s regular course of business to demonstrate that 
the applicant has the authority to perform the installation or modification. Label this authorization 
“Attachment 3 – Property Owner’s Authorization” and attach it to this application. 
 
INITIAL CEQA ASSESSMENT 
 
Instructions: Complete and attach to this application a fully executed Environmental Information Form. 
Label this form “Attachment 4 – Environmental Information Form” and attach it to this application. The 
Environmental Information Form may be obtained electronically on the City’s website or in person at the 
Public Works Department. Based on the nature and scope of the project, the City will determine whether 
the proposed project is categorically exempt under Article 19 of the CEQA Guidelines, or whether the 
proposed project will require a Negative Declaration, Mitigated Negative Declaration or an Environmental 
Impact Report. 
 
RF COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide an RF exposure compliance report prepared and certified by an RF engineer that 
certifies that the proposed facility, as well as any collocated facilities and any cumulative emissions from 
adjacent areas, will comply with applicable federal RF human exposure standards and limits. At a 
minimum, the RF exposure compliance report must provide the same information and in the same form as 
the FCC LSGAC Appendix A form for each band of operations. For projects on or attached to poles 
subject to CPUC General Order 95 regulation provide evidence of compliance with CPUC General Order 
95, Rule 94. Label this report “Attachment 5 – RF Compliance Report” and attach it to this application. 
The RF compliance report must include:  
 
 the actual frequency, actual or maximum power levels (in watts effective radiated power 
(ERP)), and the actual or maximum transmitting channels for all existing and proposed 
antennas at the site 
  
 exhibits that show:  
 
676 of 734

--- page 677 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 7 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
 the location and orientation of all transmitting antennas  
 
 the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in 
excess of the uncontrolled/general population limit (as that term is defined by the 
FCC)  
 
 the boundaries of areas with RF exposures (whether individually or cumulatively) in 
excess of the controlled/occupational limit (as that term is defined by the FCC) 
 
Note: Each such boundary must be clearly marked and identified for every transmitting antenna at the 
project site, whether owned/operated by the applicant or another licensee. To the extent that the project 
site contains collocated transmitters from multiple operators, the RF exposure compliance report must 
evaluate all the transmitting antennas that may cause cumulative emissions. 
 
NOISE COMPLIANCE REPORT 
 
Instructions: Provide a noise compliance report for the proposed facility and all associated equipment 
including all environmental control units, sump pumps, temporary backup power generators, and 
permanent backup power generators in order to demonstrate compliance with the City’s noise regulations. 
The noise compliance report must be prepared and certified by an engineer and include an analysis of the 
manufacturers’ specifications for all noise-emitting equipment and a depiction of the proposed equipment 
relative to all adjacent property lines. In lieu of a noise compliance report, the applicant may submit 
evidence from the equipment manufacturer that the ambient noise emitted from all the proposed 
equipment will not, both individually and cumulatively, exceed the applicable limits. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 6 – Noise Compliance Report” and attach it to the application. 
 
SECTION 6409 EVALUATION 
 
Instructions: If the applicant requests approval pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the Middle Class Tax 
Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (codified as 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a)), the applicant must complete and 
submit the City’s Section 6409 worksheet for the proposed facility or prepare a separate justification that 
evaluates whether the proposed modification is an eligible facilities request that complies with the 
applicable FCC substantial change thresholds. Label this worksheet “Attachment 7 – Section 6409 
Evaluation” and attach it to the application. 
 
PROJECT PURPOSE AND TECHNICAL OBJECTIVES* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide the following information to 
demonstrate the intended technical service objectives and the nature of the existing service capabilities of 
the applicant’s network in the area that would be served by the proposed facility or enhanced by the 
proposed modification. Label this analysis “Attachment 8 – Project Purpose and Technical Objectives” 
and attach it to the application. 
 
1. Dominant Project Purpose 
 
Identify and describe the dominant project purpose. Possible responses analyze whether the proposed 
facility or modification will: 
  
 add new personal wireless service coverage to an area in which the licensee does not 
currently provide any personal wireless service coverage 
 
677 of 734

--- page 678 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 8 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
 add new personal wireless service capacity to an area in which the licensee currently 
provides personal wireless service coverage 
 
If the project has a different dominant purpose from the options described above, provide such purpose in 
full detail. 
 
2. Technical Objectives 
 
Provide a detailed written statement that describes the technical objectives the applicant intends the 
proposed wireless facility to achieve and the factual reasons why the proposed location, centerline height 
and equipment configuration are necessary to achieve those objectives. In addition, the statement must 
include all the following required information and/or materials: 
 
 a street-level map that shows the general geographic area of the service area(s) to be 
improved through the proposed wireless facility (the “Service Area”) 
 
 full-color signal propagation maps in scale with the street level map that show current and 
predicted service coverage in the area for all active frequencies in RSRP (or other relevant 
signal level or quality indicator) and with a legend that describes the objective signal levels in 
dBm that correspond to any colors used to depict signal levels on such propagation maps 
 
 a written narrative that describes the uses (commercial, residential, primary thoroughfare, 
highway, etc.) within the Service Area, and the manner in which those uses would be 
negatively affected if the Service Area were to remain unaddressed 
 
 a statement as to whether the applicant conducted any drive test(s) and, if so, all drive test 
results and data (in .XLS or .CSV or similar format) together with a report that describes how 
and when the applicant conducted such test(s) 
 
3. Network Map 
 
Provide an overview map of the applicant’s network within the City’s jurisdictional and territorial 
boundaries that shows (1) all the existing wireless facilities that applicant currently owns and/or operates 
and (2) all future wireless facilities that are reasonably foreseeable within two years of the application 
submission. The map must provide a legend that distinguishes between “macro” cells and small cell 
facilities. 
 
ALTERNATIVE SITES ANALYSIS* 
 
Instructions: For applications not subject to Section 6409, provide a detailed written analysis that 
describes how the proposed wireless facility complies with all the applicable requirements in the San 
Mateo Municipal Code, which includes without limitation the provisions specific to wireless facilities, and all 
the alternative locations and designs considered before submitting this application. Label this analysis 
“Attachment 9 – Alternative Sites Analysis” and attach it to the application. In addition, the analysis 
must include all the following required information and/or materials: 
 
 a street-level map that shows the general geographic area surrounding the proposed location 
annotated to show: 
 
 all existing wireless facilities within the relevant geographic area 
 
678 of 734

--- page 679 ---
{00025055;2} 
City of San Mateo 
Page 9 of 9 
Wireless Facilities Permit Application Checklist 
Revised May 2018 
 
 the search ring used for this particular project 
 
 all locations for each alternative considered for this particular project 
 
 for each alternative site considered, a detailed written description that includes, without 
limitation all the following: 
 
 the nearest physical address 
 
 zoning district designation for the nearest private property 
 
 support structure type considered 
 
 general design concept and concealment elements/techniques considered 
 
 overall height and achievable antenna centerline height 
 
 the factual reasons why the applicant considered the potential alternative site location 
and/or design to be unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with 
the development standards in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. Note: This 
explanation must include a meaningful comparative analysis and such technical 
information and other factual justification as are necessary to document the reasons 
why each alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not as consistent with 
the development standards in Chapter 17.10. Conclusory statements that a particular 
alternative is unacceptable, infeasible, unavailable or not in accordance with the 
development standards in Chapter 17.10 will be deemed incomplete. 
 
 for each alternative site within the search ring, signal propagation maps in scale with the 
street level map that show current and predicted service coverage in the area for all active 
frequencies in RSRP (or other relevant signal level or quality indicator) with and without the 
alternative site and with a legend that describes the objective signal levels in dBm that 
correspond to any colors used to depict signal levels on such propagation maps. The signal 
propagation maps required must be directly comparable with the signal propagation maps 
submitted to show before-and-after service from the applicant’s proposed site. If the applicant 
did not locate any alternatives within the search ring, the analysis must expressly state that no 
such alternatives were considered. 
 
 
679 of 734

--- page 680 ---
Design & Engineering Standards 
July 2018 
Page 38 
 
{00027262;2} 
 
Appendix E: Standard Conditions of Approval for Wireless Communications Facilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insert COA 
 
680 of 734

--- page 681 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 1 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
 
STANDARD CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS 
FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY PURSUANT TO SAN MATEO 
MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 17.10.080 
 
A. 
Standard Conditions for Major or Minor Wireless Permits. In addition to all 
other conditions adopted by the approval authority, all major or minor wireless 
permits, whether approved by the approval authority or deemed approved by the 
operation of law, shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. 
The approval authority (or the appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion 
to modify or amend these conditions on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary 
or appropriate under the circumstances to protect public health and safety or allow 
for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with the goals and 
applicable provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
1. 
Permit Term. This permit will automatically expire 10 years and one day 
from its issuance if a new permit has not been applied for in writing at least 
120 days prior to permit expiration, except when California Government 
Code § 65964(b), as may be amended or superseded in the future, 
authorizes the City to establish a shorter term for public safety or substantial 
land use reasons. Any other permits or approvals issued in connection with 
any collocation, modification or other change to this wireless facility, which 
includes without limitation any permits or other approvals deemed-granted 
or deemed-approved under federal or state law, will not extend this term 
limit unless expressly provided otherwise in such permit or approval or 
required under federal or state law. 
 
2. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public 
Works issues any encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits 
required to commence construction in connection with this permit, the 
permittee must incorporate this permit, all conditions associated with this 
permit and the approved photo simulations into the project plans (the 
“Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install and operate the 
wireless facility in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Any 
alterations, modifications or other changes to the Approved Plans, whether 
requested by the permittee or required by other departments or public 
agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless facility, must be submitted in a 
written request subject to the Director’s prior review and approval, who may 
refer the request to the original approval authority if the Director finds that 
the requested alteration, modification or other change substantially deviates 
from the Approved Plans or implicates a significant or substantial land-use 
concern. 
 
3. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee 
commences full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or 
deemed-approved under San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the 
permittee shall provide the Director with documentation reasonably 
acceptable to the Director that the wireless facility has been installed and/or 
constructed in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Subject to 
the Director’s discretion, such documentation may include, but shall not be 
limited to, as-built drawings, site surveys, GIS data and site photographs. 
 
681 of 734

--- page 682 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 2 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
4. 
Build-Out Period. This permit will automatically expire one (1) year from 
the approval or deemed-granted date unless the permittee obtains all other 
permits and approvals required to install, construct and/or operate the 
approved wireless facility, which includes without limitation any permits or 
approvals required by the any federal, state or local public agencies with 
jurisdiction over the subject property, the wireless facility or its use. The 
Director may grant one written extension to a date certain, but not to exceed 
one (1) additional year, when the permittee shows good cause to extend 
the limitations period in a written request for an extension submitted at least 
30 days prior to the automatic expiration date in this condition. 
 
5. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. The permittee shall keep the site, 
which includes without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, 
structures, access routes, fences and landscape features, in a neat, clean 
and safe condition in accordance with the Approved Plans and all conditions 
in this permit. The permittee shall keep the site area free from all litter and 
debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall remove and 
remediate any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 hours after the 
permittee receives notice or otherwise becomes aware that such graffiti or 
other vandalism occurred.  
 
6. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all 
times with all federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other 
rules that carry the force of law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the 
subject property, the wireless facility or any use or activities in connection 
with the use authorized in this permit, which includes without limitation any 
Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The permittee 
expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is intended to be 
broadly construed and that no other specific requirements in these 
conditions are intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the 
permittee’s obligations to maintain compliance with all Laws. In the event 
that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce compliance with any 
applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any 
permit condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or 
permittee will not be relieved from its obligation to comply in all respects 
with all applicable provisions in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, 
any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation. 
 
7. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to 
this permit, the permittee and the property owner shall reasonably 
cooperate with efforts by the City to evaluate whether the wireless facility 
complies with all applicable FCC rules and regulations for human exposure 
to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to the City and may 
include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with 
applicable FCC rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as 
the frequencies in use, power output levels and antenna specifications, 
reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance with maximum permissible 
exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its designee to have 
supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections and 
field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City 
682 of 734

--- page 683 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 3 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
or its designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the 
foregoing. 
 
8. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all 
reasonable efforts to avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse 
impacts on nearby properties that may arise from the permittee’s or its 
authorized personnel’s construction, installation, operation, modification, 
maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. The 
permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, 
installation, operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other 
work that involves heavy equipment or machines except during normal 
construction work hours authorized by the San Mateo Municipal Code. The 
restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit any work required to 
prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any work 
during an emergency declared by the City. The Director or the Director’s 
designee may issue a stop work order for any activities that violates this 
condition. 
 
9. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power 
generators only during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for 
maintenance purposes during normal construction hours in accordance with 
the San Mateo Municipal Code. The Director may approve a temporary 
power source and/or generator in connection with initial construction, major 
repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not operate 
any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
10. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and 
agrees that the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter 
onto the site and inspect the improvements and equipment upon reasonable 
prior notice to the permittee, or at any time during an emergency. The City’s 
officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but will not be obligated to, 
enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, disable or 
remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such 
improvements or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or 
persons. The permittee, if present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, 
staff or other designee while any such inspection or emergency access 
occurs. 
 
11. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the Director 
with accurate and up-to-date contact information for a person responsible 
for the wireless facility, which includes without limitation such person’s full 
name, title, direct telephone number, facsimile number, mailing address and 
email address. The permittee shall keep such contact information up-to-
date at all times and immediately provide the Director with updated contact 
information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
12. 
Indemnification. The permittee and, if applicable, the property owner upon 
which the wireless facility is installed shall defend, indemnify and hold 
harmless the City, City Council and City boards, commissions, agents, 
officers, officials, employees and volunteers from any and all (1) damages, 
liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses and from any and all claims, 
683 of 734

--- page 684 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 4 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings (“Claims”) 
brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, employees or 
volunteers to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the 
City’s approval of this permit, and (2) other Claims of any kind or form, 
whether for personal injury, death or property damage, that arise from or in 
connection with the permittee’s or its agents’, directors’, officers’, 
employees’, contractors’, subcontractors’, licensees’, or customers’ acts or 
omissions in connection with this permit or the wireless facility. In the event 
the City becomes aware of any Claims, the City will use best efforts to 
promptly notify the permittee and the private property owner and shall 
reasonably 
cooperate 
in 
the defense. 
The permittee 
expressly 
acknowledges and agrees that the City shall have the right to approve, 
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the legal counsel 
providing the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or permittee (as 
applicable) shall promptly reimburse City for any costs and expenses 
directly and necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the defense. 
The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the permittee’s 
indemnification obligations under this condition are a material consideration 
that motivates the City to approve this permit, and that such indemnification 
obligations will survive the expiration or revocation of this permit. 
 
13. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits required to 
commence construction in connection with this permit, the permittee shall 
post a performance bond from a surety and in a form acceptable to the 
Director in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the cost to remove the 
improvements and restore all affected areas based on a written estimate 
from a qualified contractor with experience in wireless facilities removal. The 
written estimate must include the cost to remove all equipment and other 
improvements, which includes without limitation all antennas, radios, 
batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, mounts, brackets, hardware, 
cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, footings and 
foundations, whether above ground or below ground, constructed or 
installed in connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost to completely 
restore any areas affected by the removal work to a standard compliant with 
applicable laws. In establishing or adjusting the bond amount required 
under this condition, and in accordance with California Government Code § 
65964(a), the Director shall take into consideration any information provided 
by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the wireless facility to a 
standard compliant with applicable laws. The performance bond shall 
expressly survive the duration of the permit term to the extent required to 
effectuate a complete removal of the subject wireless facility in accordance 
with this condition. 
 
14. 
Recall to Approval Authority; Permit Revocation. The approval authority 
may recall this permit for review at any time due to complaints about 
noncompliance with applicable laws or any approval conditions attached to 
this permit. At a duly noticed public hearing and in accordance with all 
applicable laws, the approval authority may revoke this permit or amend 
these conditions as the approval authority deems necessary or appropriate 
to correct any such noncompliance. 
 
684 of 734

--- page 685 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 5 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
15. 
Record Retention. The permittee must maintain complete and accurate 
copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in connection 
with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all 
conditions associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or 
approvals issued in connection with this approval. In the event that the 
permittee does not maintain such records as required in this condition, any 
ambiguities or uncertainties that would be resolved through an inspection 
of the missing records will be construed against the permittee. The 
permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that hard copies 
or electronic records kept in the City’s regular files will control over any 
conflicts between such City-controlled copies or records and the permittee’s 
electronic copies, and complete originals will control over all other copies in 
any form. 
 
16. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable 
television operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities 
where the permittee’s wireless facility is located, the permittee must 
underground its equipment except the antennas and antenna supports. 
Such undergrounding shall occur at the permittee’s sole cost and expense 
except as reimbursed pursuant to law. 
 
17. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility 
provider adopts or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or 
ground-mounted electric meter and enclosure, the permittee on its own 
initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall apply to the City for 
permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter and 
enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
18. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the 
City, in its sole discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, 
width or location; (2) add, remove or otherwise change any improvements 
in, on, under or along any street owned by the City or any other public 
agency, which includes without limitation any sewers, storm drains, 
conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles and utility systems for gas, 
water, electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any other work 
deemed necessary, useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City 
Work”). The City reserves the rights to do any and all City Work without any 
admission on its part that the City would not have such rights without the 
express reservation in this permit. In the event that the Director determines 
that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility to be rearranged 
and/or relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or 
cause to be done all things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement 
and/or relocation. If the permittee fails or refuses to either permanently or 
temporarily rearrange and/or relocate the permittee’s facility within a 
reasonable time after the Director’s notice, the City may (but will not be 
obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be performed at the 
permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to 
rearrange or relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee 
when the Director determines that the City Work is immediately necessary 
to protect public health or safety. The permittee shall reimburse the City for 
all costs and expenses in connection with such work within 10 days after a 
685 of 734

--- page 686 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 6 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
written demand for reimbursement and reasonable documentation to 
support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall indemnify, defend and 
hold the City, its agents, officers, officials, employees and volunteers 
harmless from and against any Claims in connection with rearranging or 
relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on or off any water, oil, gas, 
electricity or other utility service in connection with the permittee’s facility. 
 
19. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features 
damaged or displaced by the construction, installation, operation, 
maintenance or other work performed by the permittee or at the permittee’s 
direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees are damaged or 
displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to select, 
plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for 
the species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed 
arborist shall be used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and 
other standards for any replacement trees shall be subject to the Director’s 
approval in consultation with the licensed arborist. The permittee shall, at 
all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement landscape features. 
 
20. 
Encroachment Permit General Conditions. The permittee shall comply 
with the City of San Mateo’s Encroachment Permit General Conditions. 
 
21. 
Insurance Requirements. Commercial general liability (or comprehensive) 
and property damage insurance indicating the City of San Mateo as an 
additional insured is required. 
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
i. 
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services 
Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 covering CGL on an 
"occurrence" basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal   & advertising injury, with limits no less than 
$2,000,000 per occurrence.  If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply 
separately to this project/location or the general aggregate 
limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
ii. 
Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering 
any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor has no owned autos, hired, 
(Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less 
than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property 
damage. 
iii. 
Workers' Compensation:  as required by the State of 
California, with Statutory Limits, and Employer's Liability 
Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury or disease. 
 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, 
the City requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits 
maintained by the contractor. 
 
 
 
686 of 734

--- page 687 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 7 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the 
following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to 
be covered as insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of 
automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf of the 
Contractor; and on the COL policy with respect to liability arising out of 
work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including 
materials, parts or equipment furnished in coru1ection with such work or 
operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the Contractor's insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form 
CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions 
used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor's insurance 
coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, or agents shall be excess of the Contractor's insurance and 
shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not 
be canceled, except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice (10 days for 
non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation, 
which any insurer of said Contractor may acquire against the City by virtue 
of the payment of any loss under such insurance.    Contractor agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the 
City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Deductibles and Self-lnsured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and 
approved by the City. The City may require the Contractor to purchase 
coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof of ability to 
pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense 
expenses within the retention. 
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best's rating of 
no less than A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory 
endorsements or copies of the applicable policy language effecting 
coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and endorsements are to 
687 of 734

--- page 688 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 8 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
be received and approved by the City before work commences.   
However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work 
beginning shall not waive the Contractor's obligation to provide them.  The 
City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all required 
insurance policies, including endorsements required by these 
specifications, at any time. 
 
22. 
Public Noticing.  All residences and/or businesses impacted by project 
construction are to be notified in writing at least 48 hours in advance 
describing work schedule, including dates, time frames, and on-site project 
manager name and cell phone number prior to commencing work.  
 
23. 
Traffic Control.  Traffic control per Caltrans standards.  No street closures 
allowed, must allow through traffic at all times.  Contractor must notify City 
of San Mateo's Police (650) 522-7700, Fire (650) 522-7940, and San Mateo 
County Communications (650) 363-4961, at least 24 – 48 hours in advance 
of lane closures or detours; and immediately upon removal of lane closure 
or detour. 
 
24. 
Traffic Control Plans (TCPs). Site-specific TCP’s are required where any 
of the following criteria are met, and shall be prepared in accordance with 
the “Guidelines for Submittal of Site-Specific TCP’s” found in the 
Encroachment Permit Packet: 
i. 
Any roadway that is classified as a collector or arterial. Roadway 
classifications are defined in the Circulation Element of the General 
Plan. A map of roadway classifications can be seen here: 
http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/Home/View/7192 
and is attached to this document. 
ii. 
Any roadway (including local roadways) that requires full road 
closures or detours. 
iii. 
Any roadway with a speed limit over 25 mph. 
 
The City reserves the right to require site-specific TCP’s where deemed 
necessary. 
 
25. 
Underground Service Alert (USA). Forty-eight (48) hours before 
commencing work, the permittee shall contact Underground Service Alert 
(USA) at 1-800-227-2600 to verify elevations and locations of all existing 
utilities 
 
26. 
Private Sewer Laterals. The City of San Mateo does not mark private 
sewer laterals in the public right-of-way as part of the Underground Service 
Alert (USA) program. Permittee is to take precautions to locate and protect 
private sewer laterals from damage during construction. In the event any 
damage is discovered, the Permittee is required to immediately dig and 
repair the sewer lateral to restore sewer service. If new facilities are being 
installed by the boring method the Permittee is also required to video 
inspect any sewer and storm mains that are crossed by their facilities as 
part of this project, a copy of this video is to be provided to the City. 
 
 
 
688 of 734

--- page 689 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 9 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
B. 
Standard Conditions for Section 6409 Approvals. In addition to all other 
conditions adopted by the approval authority, all section 6409 approvals, whether 
approved by the approval authority or deemed approved by the operation of law, 
shall be automatically subject to the conditions in this section. The approval 
authority (or the appellate authority on appeal) shall have discretion to modify or 
amend these conditions on a case-by-case basis as may be necessary or 
appropriate under the circumstances to protect public health and safety or allow 
for the proper operation of the approved facility consistent with the goals and 
applicable provisions of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10. 
 
1. 
Permit Term. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of a section 6409 
approval constitutes a federally-mandated modification to the underlying 
permit or other prior regulatory authorization for the subject tower or base 
station, and will be regarded as a modification to the underlying approval 
for the subject tower or base station. The City’s grant or grant by operation 
of law of a section 6409 approval will not extend the permit term, if any, for 
any underlying permit or other underlying prior regulatory authorization. 
Accordingly, the term for a section 6409 approval shall be coterminous with 
the underlying permit or other prior regulatory authorization for the subject 
tower or base station. This condition shall not be applied or interpreted in 
any way that would cause the term of the underlying permit for the modified 
facility to be less than 10 years in total length. 
 
2. 
Compliance Obligations Due to Invalidation. In the event that any court 
of competent jurisdiction invalidates all or any portion of Section 6409 or 
any FCC rule that interprets Section 6409 such that federal law would not 
mandate approval for any section 6409 approval(s), such approval(s) shall 
automatically expire one year from the effective date of the judicial order, 
unless the decision would not authorize accelerated termination of 
previously approved section 6409 approvals or the Director grants an 
extension upon written request from the permittee that shows good cause 
for the extension, which includes without limitation extreme financial 
hardship. Notwithstanding anything in the previous sentence to the 
contrary, the Director may not grant a permanent exemption or indefinite 
extension. A permittee shall not be required to remove its improvements 
approved under the invalidated section 6409 approval when it has obtained 
the applicable permit(s) or submitted an application for such permit(s) 
before the one-year period ends. 
 
3. 
City’s Standing Reserved. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of 
a section 6409 approval does not waive, and shall not be construed to 
waive, any standing by the City to challenge Section 6409, any FCC rules 
that interpret Section 6409 or any section 6409 approval. 
 
4. 
Compliance with Approved Plans. Before the Department of Public 
Works issues any encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits 
required to commence construction in connection with this section 6409 
approval, the permittee must incorporate this section 6409 approval, all 
conditions associated with this section 6409 approval and any approved 
photo simulations into the project plans (the “Approved Plans”). The 
permittee must construct, install and operate the wireless facility in 
substantial compliance, as determined by the Director, with the Approved 
689 of 734

--- page 690 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 10 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
Plans. Any alterations, modifications or other changes to the Approved 
Plans, whether requested by the permittee or required by other departments 
or public agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless facility, must be 
submitted in a written request subject to the Director’s prior review and 
approval.  The Director may revoke the section 6409 approval if the Director 
finds that the requested alteration, modification or other change may cause 
a substantial change as that term is defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R. § 
1.40001(b)(7), as may be amended. 
 
5. 
Post-Installation Certification. Within 60 calendar days after the permittee 
commences full, unattended operations of a wireless facility approved or 
deemed-approved under San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.10, the 
permittee shall provide the Director with documentation reasonably 
acceptable to the Director that the wireless facility has been installed and/or 
constructed in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans. Subject to 
the Director’s discretion, such documentation may include, but shall not be 
limited to, as-built drawings, site surveys, GIS data and site photographs. 
 
6. 
Build-Out Period. This section 6409 approval will automatically expire one 
(1) year from the approval or deemed-granted date unless the permittee 
obtains all other permits and approvals required to install, construct and/or 
operate the approved wireless facility, which includes without limitation any 
permits or approvals required by any federal, state or local public agencies 
with jurisdiction over the subject property, the wireless facility or its use. The 
Director may grant one written extension up to one (1) year when the 
permittee shows good cause to extend the limitations period in a written 
request for an extension submitted at least 30 days prior to the automatic 
expiration date in this condition. 
 
7. 
Maintenance Obligations; Vandalism. The permittee shall keep the site, 
which includes without limitation any and all improvements, equipment, 
structures, access routes, fences and landscape features, in a neat, clean 
and safe condition in accordance with the Approved Plans and all conditions 
in this permit. Any concealment elements shall be kept in “like new” 
condition at all times. The permittee shall keep the site area free from all 
litter and debris at all times. The permittee, at no cost to the City, shall 
remove and remediate any graffiti or other vandalism at the site within 48 
hours after the permittee receives notice or otherwise becomes aware that 
such graffiti or other vandalism occurred. The permittee and property owner 
shall maintain any and all landscape features in accordance with an 
approved landscape plan, if any, and shall replace dying or dead trees, 
foliage or other landscape elements shown on the Approved Plans within 
30 calendar days after written notice from the City.  
 
8. 
Compliance with Laws. The permittee shall maintain compliance at all 
times with all federal, state and local statutes, regulations, orders or other 
rules that carry the force of law (“Laws”) applicable to the permittee, the 
subject property, the wireless facility or any use or activities in connection 
with the use authorized in this section 6409 approval, which includes without 
limitation any Laws applicable to human exposure to RF emissions. The 
permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that this obligation is 
intended to be broadly construed and that no other specific requirements in 
690 of 734

--- page 691 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 11 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
these conditions are intended to reduce, relieve or otherwise lessen the 
permittee’s obligations to maintain compliance with all Laws. In the event 
that the City fails to timely notice, prompt or enforce compliance with any 
applicable provision in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, any 
permit condition or any applicable law or regulation, the applicant or 
permittee will not be relieved from its obligation to comply in all respects 
with all applicable provisions in the San Mateo Municipal Code, any permit, 
any permit condition or any applicable law or regulation. 
 
9. 
Cooperation with RF Compliance Evaluations. At all times relevant to 
this permit, the permittee and the property owner shall reasonably 
cooperate with efforts by the City to evaluate whether the wireless facility 
complies with all applicable FCC rules and regulations for human exposure 
to RF emissions. Such cooperation shall be at no cost to the City and may 
include, but is not limited to: (1) furnishing the City with a written affidavit 
signed by an RF engineer certifying the wireless facility’s compliance with 
applicable FCC rules and regulations; (2) providing technical data such as 
the frequencies in use, power output levels and antenna specifications, 
reasonably necessary to evaluate compliance with maximum permissible 
exposure levels set by the FCC; (3) allowing the City or its designee to have 
supervised access to the areas near the wireless facility for inspections and 
field measurements; and (4) promptly responding to all requests by the City 
or its designee for information and/or cooperation with respect to any of the 
foregoing. 
 
10. 
Adverse Impacts on Other Properties. The permittee shall use all 
reasonable efforts to avoid any and all undue or unnecessary adverse 
impacts on nearby properties that may arise from the permittee’s or its 
authorized personnel’s construction, installation, operation, modification, 
maintenance, repair, removal and/or other activities at the site. The 
permittee shall not perform or cause others to perform any construction, 
installation, operation, modification, maintenance, repair, removal or other 
work that involves heavy equipment or machines except during normal 
construction hours authorized by the San Mateo Municipal Code. The 
restricted work hours in this condition will not prohibit any work required to 
prevent an actual, immediate harm to property or persons, or any work 
during an emergency declared by the City. The Director or the Director’s 
designee may issue a stop work order for any activities that violates this 
condition. 
 
11. 
Backup Power; Generators. The permittee shall operate backup power 
generators only during (a) commercial power outages or (b) for 
maintenance purposes during normal construction hours in accordance with 
the San Mateo Municipal Code. The Director may approve a temporary 
power source and/or generator in connection with initial construction, major 
repairs or in the event of an emergency. The permittee shall not operate 
any permanent backup generators located in the public right-of-way. 
 
12. 
Inspections; Emergencies. The permittee expressly acknowledges and 
agrees that the City’s officers, officials, staff or other designee may enter 
onto the site and inspect the improvements and equipment upon reasonable 
prior notice to the permittee, or at any time during an emergency. The City’s 
691 of 734

--- page 692 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 12 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
officers, officials, staff or other designee may, but will not be obligated to, 
enter onto the site area without prior notice to support, repair, disable or 
remove any improvements or equipment in emergencies or when such 
improvements or equipment threatens actual, imminent harm to property or 
persons. The permittee, if present, may observe the City’s officers, officials, 
staff or other designee while any such inspection or emergency access 
occurs. 
 
13. 
Permittee’s Contact Information. The permittee shall furnish the Director 
with accurate and up-to-date contact information for a person responsible 
for the wireless facility, which includes without limitation such person’s full 
name, title, direct telephone number, facsimile number, mailing address and 
email address. The permittee shall keep such contact information up-to-
date at all times and immediately provide the Director with updated contact 
information in the event that either the responsible person or such person’s 
contact information changes. 
 
14. 
Indemnification. The permittee and, if applicable, the property owner upon 
which the wireless facility is installed, shall defend, indemnify and hold 
harmless the City, City Council and City boards, commissions, agents, 
officers, officials, employees and volunteers from any and all (1) damages, 
liabilities, injuries, losses, costs and expenses and from any and all claims, 
demands, law suits, writs and other actions or proceedings (“Claims”) 
brought against the City or its agents, officers, officials, employees or 
volunteers to challenge, attack, seek to modify, set aside, void or annul the 
City’s approval of this section 6409 approval, and (2) other Claims of any 
kind or form, whether for personal injury, death or property damage, that 
arise from or in connection with the permittee’s or its agents’, directors’, 
officers’, 
employees’, 
contractors’, 
subcontractors’, 
licensees’, 
or 
customers’ acts or omissions in connection with this section 6409 approval 
or the wireless facility. In the event the City becomes aware of any Claims, 
the City will use best efforts to promptly notify the permittee and the private 
property owner and shall reasonably cooperate in the defense. The 
permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the City shall have the 
right to approve, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the 
legal counsel providing the City’s defense, and the property owner and/or 
permittee (as applicable) shall promptly reimburse City for any costs and 
expenses directly and necessarily incurred by the City in the course of the 
defense. The permittee expressly acknowledges and agrees that the 
permittee’s indemnification obligations under this condition are a material 
consideration that motivates the City to approve this section 6409 approval, 
and that such indemnification obligations will survive the expiration or 
revocation of this section 6409 approval. 
 
15. 
Performance Bond. Before the Department of Public Works issues any 
encroachment permit and/or other ministerial permits required to 
commence construction in connection with this section 6409 approval, the 
permittee shall post a performance bond from a surety and in a form 
acceptable to the Director in an amount reasonably necessary to cover the 
cost to remove the improvements and restore all affected areas based on a 
written estimate from a qualified contractor with experience in wireless 
facilities removal. The written estimate must include the cost to remove all 
692 of 734

--- page 693 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 13 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
equipment and other improvements, which includes without limitation all 
antennas, radios, batteries, generators, utilities, cabinets, mounts, brackets, 
hardware, cables, wires, conduits, structures, shelters, towers, poles, 
footings and foundations, whether above ground or below ground, 
constructed or installed in connection with the wireless facility, plus the cost 
to completely restore any areas affected by the removal work to a standard 
compliant with applicable laws. In establishing or adjusting the bond amount 
required under this condition, and in accordance with California 
Government Code § 65964(a), the Director shall take into consideration any 
information provided by the permittee regarding the cost to remove the 
wireless facility to a standard compliant with applicable laws. The 
performance bond shall expressly survive the duration of the permit term to 
the extent required to effectuate a complete removal of the subject wireless 
facility in accordance with this condition. 
 
16. 
Recall to Approval Authority; Permit Revocation. The Director may 
recall this section 6409 approval for review at any time due to complaints 
about noncompliance with applicable laws or any approval conditions 
attached to this section 6409 approval after notice and an opportunity to 
cure the violation is provided to the permittee. If the noncompliance 
continues after notice and reasonable opportunity to cure the 
noncompliance, the Director may revoke this section 6409 approval or 
amend these conditions as the Director deems necessary or appropriate to 
correct any such noncompliance. 
 
17. 
Record Retention. The permittee must maintain complete and accurate 
copies of all permits and other regulatory approvals issued in connection 
with the wireless facility, which includes without limitation this approval, the 
approved plans and photo simulations incorporated into this approval, all 
conditions associated with this approval and any ministerial permits or 
approvals issued in connection with this approval. In the event that the 
permittee does not maintain such records as required in this condition, any 
ambiguities or uncertainties that would be resolved through an inspection 
of the missing records will be construed against the permittee. The 
permittee may keep electronic records; provided, however, that hard copies 
or electronic records kept in the City’s regular files will control over any 
conflicts between such City-controlled copies or records and the permittee’s 
electronic copies, and complete originals will control over all other copies in 
any form. 
 
18. 
Undergrounded Utilities. In the event that other public utilities or cable 
television operators in the public right-of-way underground their facilities 
where the permittee’s wireless facility is located, the permittee must 
underground its equipment except the antennas and antenna supports. 
Such undergrounding shall occur at the permittee’s sole cost and expense 
except as reimbursed pursuant to law. 
 
19. 
Electric Meter Removal. In the event that the commercial electric utility 
provider adopts or changes its rules obviating the need for a separate or 
ground-mounted electric meter and enclosure, the permittee on its own 
initiative and at its sole cost and expense shall apply to the City for 
693 of 734

--- page 694 ---
City of San Mateo 
 
page 14 / 14 
Standard Conditions of Approval 
permission to remove the separate or ground-mounted electric meter and 
enclosure and restore the affected area to its original condition. 
 
20. 
Rearrangement and Relocation. The permittee acknowledges that the 
City, in its sole discretion and at any time, may: (1) change any street grade, 
width or location; (2) add, remove or otherwise change any improvements 
in, on, under or along any street owned by the City or any other public 
agency, which includes without limitation any sewers, storm drains, 
conduits, pipes, vaults, boxes, cabinets, poles and utility systems for gas, 
water, electric or telecommunications; and/or (3) perform any other work 
deemed necessary, useful or desirable by the City (collectively, “City 
Work”). The City reserves the rights to do any and all City Work without any 
admission on its part that the City would not have such rights without the 
express reservation in this permit. In the event that the Director determines 
that any City Work will require the permittee’s facility to be rearranged 
and/or relocated, the permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense, do or 
cause to be done all things necessary to accomplish such rearrangement 
and/or relocation. If the permittee fails or refuses to either permanently or 
temporarily rearrange and/or relocate the permittee’s facility within a 
reasonable time after the Director’s notice, the City may (but will not be 
obligated to) cause the rearrangement or relocation to be performed at the 
permittee’s sole cost and expense. The City may exercise its rights to 
rearrange or relocate the permittee’s facility without prior notice to permittee 
when the Director determines that the City Work is immediately necessary 
to protect public health or safety. The permittee shall reimburse the City for 
all costs and expenses in connection with such work within 10 days after a 
written demand for reimbursement and reasonable documentation to 
support such costs. In addition, the permittee shall indemnify, defend and 
hold the City, its agents, officers, officials, employees and volunteers 
harmless from and against any Claims in connection with rearranging or 
relocating the permittee’s facility, or turning on or off any water, oil, gas, 
electricity or other utility service in connection with the permittee’s facility. 
21. 
Landscaping. The permittee shall replace any landscape features 
damaged or displaced by the construction, installation, operation, 
maintenance or other work performed by the permittee or at the permittee’s 
direction on or about the site. In the event that any trees are damaged or 
displaced, the permittee shall hire and pay for a licensed arborist to select, 
plant and maintain replacement landscaping in an appropriate location for 
the species. Only ISA Certified workers under the supervision of a licensed 
arborist shall be used to install the replacement tree(s). The box size and 
other standards for any replacement trees shall be subject to the Director’s 
approval in consultation with the licensed arborist. The permittee shall, at 
all times, be responsible to maintain any replacement landscape features. 
694 of 734

--- page 695 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  26
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4666
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Citywide Communications – Informational Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational presentation about the citywide communication strategy. 
BACKGROUND:
Keeping the San Mateo community engaged and informed with timely, accurate information is a major priority for the City. 
During the January 2021 goal-setting session, City Council requested a study session on citywide communications to better 
understand the City’s current activities as well as areas for improvement. San Mateo’s Communications Program is housed 
in the City Manager’s Office, however nearly all of San Mateo’s City departments regularly communicate with the public, 
with several more public-facing departments having staff assigned to assist with communications. 
San Mateo’s ongoing communications are deployed through a variety of formats and cover a wide array of topics related 
to City services, programs, initiatives, and departments. Other larger initiatives, such as the General Plan, may have their 
own, more specific communications and outreach strategy. The specific communications strategy for these larger 
initiatives will not be addressed as part of this informational update. This update will provide an overarching summary of 
citywide communications.
Communications Goals & Priorities:
Effective communication means providing the public with accurate, actionable and timely information in formats that are 
readily accessible. It is critical to building trust, maintaining transparency and promoting participation. 
City communications typically have one or more of the following goals or objectives:

Building Trust: developing relationships and community trust of local government. Communication, transparency 
and meaningful engagement enhances understanding and respect. It inspires confidence that problems can be 
solved – together. Public trust is easily lost and often hard for government to earn. By making communications and 
community engagement a priority, and identifying opportunities to integrate feedback into our processes, we can 
develop greater trust and confidence in our City. 

Demonstrating Value: highlighting the services and contributions the City offers to the community. The more the 
community knows about the connection between City services and the quality of life within San Mateo, the more 
they understand how their tax dollars are used. The City addresses a variety of issues and meets daily needs in the 
community. Promoting City accomplishments helps to build a positive reputation, trust, and civic pride. 

Educational: educate and inform community members about City business and areas of community interest. This 
695 of 734

--- page 696 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
includes educating people about services, initiatives, policies, or upcoming projects that may affect their lives. The 
more informed the public is about their community, the more active they will become in helping to shape it. 

Engagement and Public Participation: informed participation in local governance. Decision-making processes are 
greatly benefited by a diversity of perspectives and input from the public. Community outreach and input are 
strongly encouraged in the development of policies, programs, plans, and projects. Participation in elections and 
City decision making is paramount to democracy. 
Tactics & Methods
The City actively works to build upon the formats and distribution methods that will most effectively and efficiently reach 
our communications goals and audience. The City uses a variety of traditional and modern communications methods 
including, but not limited to: printed materials such as flyers and mailers, print and digital signs, in-person and virtual 
workshops, surveys, websites, social media, news media, advertising, emergency alerts and email notifications. A summary 
of the City’s social media accounts and digital channels is included as Attachment 1. The City also regularly collaborates 
with community partners and trusted messengers to further amplify City communications.  
The COVID-19 pandemic has required the City to shift away from in-person communications and further lean upon digital 
platforms, relationships with community partners, and print materials. Communications is an evolving field as public 
preferences and habits, as well as new technologies, change. It’s important the City be flexible and evolve alongside the 
community’s needs while continuing to focus on enhancing our core channels. 
The informational update will include an overview of an internal communications audit of current City communication 
strategies employed by City departments. The presentation will also review residents’ communications preferences and 
satisfaction with City communications as identified through the statistically-significant 2020 Citywide Community Survey. 
The executive summary and communications section of the Community Survey is included as Attachment 2. 
Accessibility & Efforts to Communicate with Hard to Reach Communities
The City strives to engage all residents and recognizes accessibility challenges, including language barriers, exist in San 
Mateo. Staff analyzed Census data about language access needs in San Mateo. English is the primary language spoken in 
San Mateo, followed by Spanish then Chinese (including both Mandarin and Cantonese). Spanish speakers make up about 
18.9% of the population, with 10.3% speaking English “less than very well.” Chinese speakers make up about 8.4% of the 
population, with about 3.8% speaking English “less than very well.” Detailed information from the 2019 American 
Community Survey is included as Attachment 3. Spanish speakers tend to be more concentrated in the North Shoreview 
and North Central neighborhoods, while Chinese speakers are more dispersed throughout the City. 
Similar to many communities, San Mateo residents tend to have differing levels of engagement with City communications 
including: engaged, interested, newcomers, passive, and disinterested. Government agencies face unique challenges in 
communicating with constituents including addressing language barriers, accessibility needs, and inspiring passive and 
disinterested residents to be more involved.  However, government agencies are also in a key position to serve as a 
trustworthy, reliable source of information. The informational update will touch upon challenges and opportunities for 
improvement, as well as provide time for public and Council feedback. 
Branding & Consistency 
Staff is working on efforts to develop a unified San Mateo brand and voice. Examples of these efforts include uniform 
email signatures, PowerPoint templates, and enewsletter headings. Staff will present a brief overview and visual examples 
of these branding efforts.
BUDGET IMPACT:
This is an informational report and as a result it has no impact on the City’s budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
696 of 734

--- page 697 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)).
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Summary of City Social Media and & Digital Channels
Att 2 – 2020 Community Survey Executive Summary & Communications Section
Att 3 – Census Demographic Data on Languages Spoken
STAFF CONTACT
Samantha Weigel, Communications Manager 
sweigel@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7005
697 of 734

--- page 698 ---
Social Media & Mobile Apps 
This information is available at www.cityofsanmateo.org/socialmedia 
 
Twitter 
• 
@CityofSanMateo 
• 
@SanMateoPD 
• 
@SMCFireDept 
• 
@SMFieldUpdates 
• 
@VolunteerSource 
Facebook 
• 
City of San Mateo 
• 
Police Department 
• 
Public Library 
• 
San Mateo Parks and Recreation 
• 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
Instagram 
• 
City of San Mateo CA 
• 
San Mateo Public Library 
• 
San Mateo Police Department 
• 
San Mateo Parks and Recreation 
• 
San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department 
 
Nextdoor.com 
San Mateo Nextdoor 
Join thousands of San Mateo residents in 
Nextdoor.com's private social network for your 
neighborhood. Make sure to sign up and follow 
the City's Nextdoor feed for updates, news and 
events. 
YouTube 
City of San Mateo YouTube Channel 
San Mateo has an ever growing collection of 
videos featuring community events, workshop 
and much more. Our City Council, Planning 
Commission and Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission meetings are all livestreamed too. 
See what we’re up too! 
Nixle 
Police Department Nixle Emergency Alerts 
Sign up for emergency alerts via text or email 
through San Mateo Police Department's Nixle. 
You can also sign up by texting your zip code to 
888777, which will sign you up for both Nixle 
and San Mateo County's SMC Alert! 
 
 
698 of 734

--- page 699 ---
Social Media & Mobile Apps 
This information is available at www.cityofsanmateo.org/socialmedia 
 
 
Email Updates 
Receive important updates from the City by signing up for our NotifyMe system. Sign Up Today! 
 
 
 
MySanMateo 
Easily report graffiti through the use of the new 
mobile app. iPhone or Android 
 
 
 
 
PLS Library 
The Mobile App for The Peninsula Library 
System. Download PLS 
Mobile App 
 
Social Media Policy 
Planning on interacting with us on social media? Please view our Social Media Policy to learn about how 
our accounts are managed. 
 
699 of 734

--- page 700 ---
May 11, 2020 —

Bev
SDRUENORTH | con Gonos

ar Re PoE mom C Fy 760.632.9900 www.TN-RESEARCH.COM 700 of 734


--- page 701 ---
Introduction
True North Research, Inc. © 2020
1
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I N T R O D U C T I O N
Encompassing 15.9 square miles in the San Francisco Bay Area, the City of San Mateo was incor-
porated in 1894 and is currently home to an estimated 104,570 residents.1 The City’s dedicated
team of full-time and part-time employees provides a full suite of services to residents and local
businesses.
To monitor its progress in meeting residents’ needs, the City engages residents on a daily basis
and receives periodic subjective feedback regarding its performance and policies. Although
these informal feedback mechanisms are a valuable source of information for the City in that
they provide timely and accurate information about the opinions of specific residents, it is
important to recognize that they do not necessarily provide an accurate picture of the commu-
nity as a whole. For the most part, informal feedback mechanisms rely on the resident to initiate
feedback, which creates a self-selection bias. The City receives feedback only from those resi-
dents who are motivated enough to initiate the feedback process. Because these residents tend
to be those who are either very pleased or very displeased with a particular service or policy,
their collective opinions are not necessarily representative of the City’s resident population as a
whole.
PURPOSE OF STUDY   The motivation for the current study was to design and employ a
methodology that would avoid the self-selection bias noted above and thereby provide the City
with a statistically reliable understanding of its residents’ satisfaction, priorities, and concerns
as they relate to city services, facilities, and policies. Ultimately, the survey results and analyses
presented in this report will provide Council and staff with information that can be used to make
sound, strategic decisions in a variety of areas including service improvements and enhance-
ments, measuring and tracking internal performance, budgeting, and community outreach.
In addition to gathering performance-related feedback, the survey was also designed to help
inform the City’s General Plan update. Like most California cities, the City of San Mateo relies on
its General Plan to guide decisions with respect to land use, development, mobility, sustainabil-
ity, and related policy matters. Although the City Council, staff, and consultants have played an
important role in gathering data and organizing the update process, it was the desire of the City
that the citizens of San Mateo be the true inspiration and authors of the Plan. Accordingly, a por-
tion of the survey was dedicated to understanding San Mateo residents’ needs and opinions as
they relate to issues that will be addressed in the General Plan, with a focus on how best to plan
future housing as required by State law.
To assist in this effort, the City selected True North Research to design the research plan and
conduct the study. Broadly defined, the study was designed to:
•
Identify key issues of importance for residents, as well as their perceptions of the quality of 
life in San Mateo;
•
Measure residents’ overall satisfaction with the City’s efforts to provide municipal services, 
and their satisfaction with a variety of specific services;
•
Gather opinions on General Plan topics with a focus on land use and housing;
1. State of California, Department of Finance, January 2019.
701 of 734

--- page 702 ---
Introduction
True North Research, Inc. © 2020
2
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
•
Profile household use of parks and recreation facilities, household interest in various recre-
ation programs, and park and recreation funding priorities;
•
Determine satisfaction with (and perceived effectiveness of) the City’s communication with 
residents; and
•
Collect additional background and demographic data that are relevant to understanding res-
idents’ perceptions, needs, and interests.
OVERVIEW OF METHODOLOGY   A full description of the methodology used for this
study is included later in this report (see Methodology on page 39). In brief, the survey was
administered to a random sample of 1,276 adults who reside in the City of San Mateo. The sur-
vey followed a mixed-method design that employed multiple recruiting methods (mailed letters,
email, and telephone) and multiple data collection methods (telephone and online). Adminis-
tered in English and Spanish between January 27 and February 6, 2020, the average interview
lasted 18 minutes.
ORGANIZATION OF REPORT   This report is designed to meet the needs of readers who
prefer a summary of the findings as well as those who are interested in the details of the results.
For those who seek an overview of the findings, the sections titled Just the Facts and Conclusions
are for you. They provide a summary of the most important factual findings of the survey in bul-
let-point format and a discussion of their implications. For the interested reader, this section is
followed by a more detailed question-by-question discussion of the results from the survey by
topic area (see Table of Contents), as well as a description of the methodology employed for col-
lecting and analyzing the data. And, for the truly ambitious reader, the questionnaire used for
the interviews is contained at the back of this report (see Questionnaire & Toplines on page 42),
and a complete set of crosstabulations for the survey results is contained in Appendix A.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS   True North thanks the City of San Mateo for the opportunity to
conduct the study and for contributing valuable input during the design stage of this study. The
collective experience, insight, and local knowledge provided by city representatives and staff
improved the overall quality of the research presented here.
DISCLAIMER   The statements and conclusions in this report are those of the authors
(Dr. Timothy McLarney and Richard Sarles) at True North Research, Inc. and not necessarily those
of the City of San Mateo. Any errors and omissions are the responsibility of the authors.
ABOUT TRUE NORTH   True North is a full-service survey research firm that is dedicated to
providing public agencies with a clear understanding of the values, perceptions, priorities, and
concerns of their residents and customers. Through designing and implementing scientific sur-
veys, focus groups, and one-on-one interviews, as well as expert interpretation of the findings,
True North helps its clients to move with confidence when making strategic decisions in a variety
of areas—such as planning, policy evaluation, performance management, establishing fiscal pri-
orities, passing revenue measures, and developing effective public information campaigns.
During their careers, Dr. McLarney (President) and Mr. Sarles (Principal Researcher) have
designed and conducted over 1,000 survey research studies for public agencies—including more
than 400 studies for California municipalities and special districts.
702 of 734

--- page 703 ---
Just the Facts
True North Research, Inc. © 2020
3
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
J U S T  T H E  F A C T S
The following is an outline of the main factual findings from the survey. For the reader’s conve-
nience, we have organized the findings according to the section titles used in the body of this
report. Thus, to learn more about a particular finding, simply turn to the appropriate report sec-
tion.
QUALITY OF LIFE   
•
San Mateo residents provided positive ratings for the overall quality of life in the City (81%
excellent or good), San Mateo as a place to shop and dine (72%), and as a place to raise a
family (65%). 
•
Although still rated favorably by over half of respondents, residents provided somewhat
softer ratings for San Mateo as a place to work (58%) and as a place to recreate (56%).
•
Less than one-third of residents provided a favorable rating for San Mateo as a place to
retire (30%), although approximately 16% held no opinion or did not provide a rating.
•
When asked what they like most about living in the City of San Mateo that city government
should make sure to preserve in the future, residents were most apt to cite parks and recre-
ation facilities and opportunities (26%), shopping and dining opportunities (14%), small town
atmosphere (11%), and proximity to surrounding cities/areas (10%).
•
When residents were asked to indicate the one thing city government could change to make
San Mateo a better place to live, now and in the future, providing more affordable housing
was the most common response (24%), followed by reducing traffic congestion (19%), limit-
ing growth and preserving open space (16%), improving and maintaining infrastructure and
roads (10%), and improving parking (9%).
CITY SERVICES   
•
Close to three-quarters (73%) of San Mateo residents indicated they were either very (19%) or
somewhat (54%) satisfied with the City’s efforts to provide municipal services. Approxi-
mately 18% were very or somewhat dissatisfied, whereas 9% were unsure or unwilling to
share their opinion.
•
Residents were asked to rate their satisfaction with 13 specific services provided by the City
of San Mateo. Although the majority of residents surveyed were satisfied with 12 of the 13
services tested, they were most satisfied with the City’s efforts to provide fire protection,
prevention, and emergency medical services (96% very or somewhat satisfied), followed by
maintain public buildings and facilities like City Hall, libraries, and parking garages (92%)
and provide parks, sports fields, and recreation facilities (89%).
•
At the other end of the spectrum, respondents were comparatively less satisfied with the
City’s efforts to manage traffic congestion (30%), address homelessness (51%), and maintain
local streets and roads (54%).
HOUSING & BUILDING   
•
Approximately seven-in-ten residents indicated that there is currently too little housing that
is affordable for middle-income (72%) and low-income families (69%). Approximately one
quarter of residents felt the amount of affordable housing was about right or were unsure
(middle income: 24%, low income: 25%), while just 4% felt there was too much housing that
is affordable for middle-income families and 7% shared the same sentiment for housing that
is affordable for low-income families.
703 of 734

--- page 704 ---
Just the Facts
True North Research, Inc. © 2020
4
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
•
After informing respondents that the State of California is expected to require the City of
San Mateo to plan for thousands of new housing units, just over half (51%) initially preferred
that new homes be concentrated in a few larger developments and located in areas of the
City that are close to transit, stores, and restaurants. Forty-one percent (41%) of respondents
preferred that the new housing be spread throughout the City by having smaller infill proj-
ects and allowing for more housing units per parcel within existing residential neighbor-
hoods. The remaining 8% were unwilling to share their opinion.
•
Respondents who preferred that new housing be concentrated in a few larger developments
and located in areas of the City that are close to transit, stores, and restaurants were most
apt to cite easier access to public transportation (33%) and less traffic congestion/having
fewer cars on the road (26%) as the main reasons for their preference. Other reasons cited
by at least 10% of this subgroup of respondents included preserving open space/limiting
sprawl (15%), improved access to shopping and dining (11%), and preserving existing neigh-
borhoods (11%).
•
Respondents who preferred that new housing be spread throughout the City by having
smaller infill projects and allowing for more housing units per parcel within existing residen-
tial neighborhoods cited reducing congestion and spreading people out as the main reason
for their preference (28%), followed by a general preference for housing to be spread out
and that there is currently too much density (20%) and that the plan allows for more bal-
anced, distributed communities (13%).
•
A majority of respondents supported three of the four strategies tested for concentrating
future housing, with support being greatest for allowing buildings up to eight stories in a
few areas of the City near transit (66% strongly or somewhat support), followed by keeping
existing five story building limits, but allowing more housing units within each building
(57%), and allowing buildings up to 12 stories in these areas (51%). Less than half of respon-
dents supported allowing buildings over 12 stories in these areas (47%).
•
Among the three strategies tested for spreading future housing throughout the city, sup-
port was strongest for allowing single family homes to be redeveloped into duplexes (66%).
Just under a majority (49%) of respondents expressed support for allowing single family
homes to be redeveloped with up to four units per parcel, whereas approximately four-in-
ten (41%) supported allowing condominiums or apartments to be built in areas currently
zoned for single family houses.
•
After learning more about the strategies that may be required for concentrating or spread-
ing housing throughout the city, approximately 15% of respondents changed their prefer-
ence, although the changes were largely off-setting. The majority (52%) of residents
continued to prefer that future housing to be concentrated in a few larger developments and
located in areas of the City that are close to transit, stores, and restaurants, while 40% of
respondents preferred to spread future housing throughout the City by having smaller infill
projects and allowing for more housing units per parcel within existing residential neighbor-
hoods (initially 41%). Eight percent remained unwilling to share their opinion.
RECREATION & FACILITIES   
•
On a yearly basis, nearly all San Mateo households utilize city parks (98%), three-quarters
utilize community centers (76%), and four-in-ten households (41%) make use of city pools. 
•
The frequency of visits is highest for parks, with 70% of residents reporting that their house-
hold visits a San Mateo park at least once per month. Twenty percent (20%) of respondents
reported monthly visits to a community center by their household, whereas 5% visit a city
pool at least once per month.
704 of 734

--- page 705 ---
Just the Facts
True North Research, Inc. © 2020
5
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
•
When presented with a list of eight activities that could be offered by the City, art and cul-
tural enrichment programs received the highest level of household interest (82% very or
somewhat interested), followed by drop-in gym use, weight rooms or cardio equipment
(75%) and adult group fitness classes (73%). 
•
At the other end of the spectrum, less than the majority of households expressed interest in
participating in learning to swim classes (45%), licensed preschool and after school childcare
(48%), and activities for teens (49%).
•
Among 11 specific recreation projects being considered by the City, expanding and improv-
ing the network of outdoor trails in the City was assigned the highest priority (73% high or
medium priority), followed by making improvements to Central Park (69%), providing
licensed pre-school and after-school childcare facilities (68%), and upgrading children's play
areas in existing parks (66%).
COMMUNICATIONS   
•
Overall, 70% of respondents indicated they were satisfied with the City’s efforts to communi-
cate with residents through newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means. The
remaining respondents were either dissatisfied with the City’s efforts in this respect (19%) or
unsure of their opinion (11%).
•
The most frequently cited source for city information was the San Mateo Daily Journal, men-
tioned by 37% of respondents. The Daily Journal was followed by letters, postcards, flyers, or
brochures mailed to the home (31%), email notifications from the City (31%), and the social
media website and app Nextdoor (26%). 
•
Respondents indicated that email was the most effective method for the City to communi-
cate with them (88% very or somewhat effective), followed by postcards, letters, and news-
letters mailed to the home (i.e., direct mail, 79%), social media like Facebook, Twitter, and
Nextdoor (77%), and the City’s website (69%). 
•
Television programs (40%), advertisements in local papers (43%), and town hall meetings
(49%) were generally viewed by residents as less effective ways for the City to communicate
with them.
705 of 734

--- page 706 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2020
6
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C O N C L U S I O N S
As noted in the Introduction, this study was designed to provide the City of San Mateo with a sta-
tistically reliable understanding of its residents’ opinions, satisfaction, and needs as they relate
to city services, facilities and policies, as well as topics pertinent to the General Plan update.
Whereas subsequent sections of this report are devoted to conveying the detailed results of the
survey, in this section we attempt to ‘see the forest through the trees’ and note how the collec-
tive results of the survey answer some of the key questions that motivated the research.
How well is the City per-
forming in meeting the 
needs of San Mateo resi-
dents?
San Mateo residents are generally satisfied with the City’s efforts to pro-
vide services, as well as the quality of life in their city. Close to three-
quarters of residents (73%) indicated they were satisfied with the City’s
overall efforts to provide municipal services, whereas 18% were dissatis-
fied and the remaining 9% were unsure or did not provide a response
(see Overall Satisfaction on page 15). The level of satisfaction expressed
with the City’s performance in general was also mirrored in residents’
assessments of the City’s performance in providing most specific ser-
vices, with the highest satisfaction scores assigned to the City’s efforts
to provide fire protection, prevention, and emergency medical services,
maintain public buildings and facilities like City Hall, libraries, and park-
ing garages, and provide parks, sports fields, and recreation facilities
(see Specific Services on page 17).
The City’s performance in providing municipal services has contributed
to a high quality of life for residents. Indeed, the vast majority of resi-
dents surveyed (81%) rated the quality of life in the City of San Mateo as
excellent or good. This sentiment was also widespread, with the percent-
age who rated the quality of life as excellent or good exceeding 70%
across every identified resident subgroup (see Overall Quality of Life on
page 11).
When asked in an open-ended manner to describe the things they value
most about living in San Mateo that they would like to preserve in the
future, parks and recreation facilities and opportunities was at the top of
the list, followed by shopping and dining opportunities, San Mateo’s
small town atmosphere, and proximity to surrounding cities/areas (see
What Do You Like Most About Living in San Mateo? on page 12).
Where should the City 
focus its efforts in the 
future?
In addition to measuring the City’s current performance, a key goal of
this study is to look forward and identify opportunities to adjust ser-
vices, improve facilities, and/or refine communications strategies to best
meet the community’s evolving needs and expectations. Although resi-
dent satisfaction in San Mateo is generally high (see above), there is
always room for improvement. Below we note some of the areas that
present the best opportunities in this regard.
706 of 734

--- page 707 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2020
7
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Considering respondents’ verbatim answers regarding what they feel city
government could do to make San Mateo a better place to live (see What
Should Be Changed? on page 13) and the levels of satisfaction found in
specific service areas (see Specific Services on page 17), the top priorities
are: providing affordable housing, reducing traffic congestion, limiting
growth/preserving open space, addressing homelessness, and maintain-
ing local streets and roads.
With the recommendation that the City focus on these areas, it is equally
important to stress that when it comes to improving satisfaction in ser-
vice areas, the appropriate strategy is often a combination of better com-
munication and actual service improvements. It may be, for example,
that many residents are simply not aware of the City’s ongoing infra-
structure improvement efforts, or the limits of what a city can do to
address homelessness. Choosing the appropriate balance of actual ser-
vice improvements and efforts to raise awareness on these matters will
be a key to maintaining and improving the community’s overall satisfac-
tion in the short- and long-term.
What do the survey 
results reveal about San 
Mateo residents’ opin-
ions on housing?
As noted in the prior section, affordable housing is top-of-mind for many
San Mateo residents. Approximately one-quarter of respondents (24%)
mentioned a desire for additional affordable housing when asked what
one change the City could make to improve the quality of life in San
Mateo, and more than two-thirds of residents perceived that there cur-
rently is not enough affordable housing in the City for middle-income
(72%) and low-income (69%) families. Although younger residents and
those currently renting their home were the most likely to perceive a
shortage of affordable housing in the City, that view was also shared by a
large majority of residents who currently own their home in the City (see
Affordable Housing on page 19).
The aforementioned patterns notwithstanding, it should also be recog-
nized that some residents are concerned about growth and development
(see What Should Be Changed? on page 13), and opinions are mixed
regarding how best to accomodate future housing in the City. Upon
learning that the State of California is expected to require the City of San
Mateo to plan for thousands of new housing units, just over half (51%)
preferred that these new homes be concentrated in a few larger devel-
opments and located in areas of the City that are close to transit, stores,
and restaurants, explaining their preference by citing easier access to
public transportation, having less traffic congestion/fewer cars on the
road, preserving open space/limiting sprawl, improved access to shop-
ping and dining, and preserving existing neighborhoods.
707 of 734

--- page 708 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2020
8
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Conversely, 41% of respondents preferred that the new housing be
spread throughout the City by having smaller infill projects and allowing
for more housing units per parcel within existing residential neighbor-
hoods. When asked to explain their preference, they anticipated that
spreading new housing throughout the City would reduce traffic conges-
tion, maintain lower densities, and allow for more balanced/distributed
communities.
On the topic of housing, there were some interesting patterns among
San Mateo resident subgroups. Although most subgroups favored future
housing to be concentrated in a few larger developments and located in
areas of the City that are close to transit, stores, and restaurants, this
was especially true for newer residents, those living in single family
homes, home owners, Caucasians, and residents under the age of 35.
Those who rent their home and those currently living in condominiums
or apartments were the only subgroups to express a clear preference for
spreading new housing throughout the City with smaller infill projects
and allowing for more housing units per parcel within existing residen-
tial neighborhoods (see Initial Preference for Future Housing on page
20).
To be able to concentrate additional housing in a few areas of the City
near transit, stores and restaurants may require allowing taller buildings
and/or allowing more units per acre (see Strategies to Concentrate Hous-
ing on page 23). With this in mind, two-thirds (66%) of respondents indi-
cated they would support allowing buildings up to eight stories in a few
areas of the City near transit, whereas 51% supported allowing buildings
up to 12 stories in these areas. A majority were also in support of an
alternative concentration strategy of keeping existing five story building
limits, but allowing more housing units within each building (57%).
When it comes to the alternative approach of spreading housing
throughout the City, close to two-thirds of respondents supported allow-
ing single family homes to be redeveloped into duplexes (66%). Options
that allowed for even higher density in existing residential neighbor-
hoods, however, met with more resistance. Just under a majority (49%) of
respondents expressed support for allowing single family homes to be
redeveloped with up to four units per parcel, whereas approximately
four-in-ten (41%) supported allowing condominiums or apartments to be
built in areas currently zoned for single family houses (see Strategies to
Spread Housing on page 25).
To what extent are San 
Mateo residents making 
use of the City’s parks 
and recreation facili-
ties, and what do they 
view as future priorities?
The City of San Mateo is currently home to over 20 neighborhood and
community parks, hundreds of acres of preserved open space, and
numerous recreation and community facilities. By providing much-
needed spaces to recreate, relax and play, San Mateo’s parks and recre-
ation facilities help to promote a strong sense of community in the City,
708 of 734

--- page 709 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2020
9
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
improve property values, enhance the business climate and local econ-
omy, and generally contribute to a higher quality of life for residents and
visitors alike. Indeed, when asked what they like most about the City of
San Mateo that should be preserved in the future, residents were most
apt to reference the City’s parks, recreation facilities, and recreation
opportunities (see What Do You Like Most About Living in San Mateo? on
page 12).
Consistent with the above, the results of the survey indicate that most
residents take advantage of the City’s parks and recreation facilities,
with nearly all respondents indicating that at least one member of their
household periodically visits a San Mateo park and just over three-quar-
ters stating they make periodic use of the City’s community centers. As
is often the case, household use of the City’s pools was lower, with four-
in-ten households utilizing them on an annual basis (see Frequency of
Use on page 27).
To help the City update its recreation programs, parks, and facilities, the
survey asked respondents to identify the programs and activities of
greatest interest to their households, as well as prioritize among a list of
11 improvements being considered for future funding. Art and cultural
enrichment programs received the highest level of household interest,
followed by drop-in gym use, weight rooms or cardio equipment and
adult group fitness classes. That said, program interest varied widely
across demographic subgroups, with activities targeted to a specific
demographic group generally being rated highest among that particular
group. For example, although less than 30% of all households were very
interested in licensed preschool and after school childcare, the level
reached two-thirds among respondents with children under six years of
age in their household (see Programming Interests on page 28).
Among the facility improvements being considered by the City, expand-
ing and improving the network of outdoor trails in the City was viewed as
the highest priority, followed by making improvements to Central Park,
providing licensed pre-school and after-school childcare facilities, and
upgrading children's play areas in existing parks (see Priority Improve-
ments on page 29).
How well is the City com-
municating with San 
Mateo residents?
The public’s preferences for communication are growing increasingly
diverse. Whereas older residents continue to rely on newsletters and
printed forms of communication, younger residents generally show great
interest in digital forms of communication including social media, text,
and smart phone apps. This pattern makes the challenge of city-resident
communication more difficult than in the past, when the sources resi-
dents relied on for information were fewer and more consistent across
subgroups. In turn, satisfaction with public agency communications has
generally declined over the past five years.
709 of 734

--- page 710 ---
Conclusions
True North Research, Inc. © 2020 10
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Against this backdrop of declining satisfaction with public agency com-
munications in general, the survey results suggest the City of San Mateo
is doing a solid job communicating with its residents. Approximately
seven-in-ten respondents said they were satisfied with the City’s efforts
to communicate through newsletters, the Internet, social media, and
other means.
Looking to the future, there are a variety of communication methods that
residents generally viewed as being effective ways for the City to com-
municate with them (see Communication Preferences on page 36). Some
of these methods the City appears to already be using effectively, includ-
ing the City’s website and social media. Others—including direct mail—
may require additional investment on the part of the City, but were
widely noted by residents as being effective means for the City to com-
municate with them.
Although there is cost-savings to be had from relying exclusively on elec-
tronic communication channels, it is not a recommended practice, as
research has shown that it will reduce readership and substantially lower
residents’ overall satisfaction with an agency’s communication efforts. It
also has a tendency to skew an agency’s communication performance
away from demographic subgroups that prefer traditional printed media.
To the extent that the City can balance digital channels with traditional
paper-based information sources like postcards and newsletters, it will
optimize city-resident communication.
710 of 734

--- page 711 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2020 32
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C O M M U N I C A T I O N S
The importance of city communication with residents cannot be over-stated. Much of a city’s suc-
cess is shaped by the quality of information that is exchanged in both directions, from the City
to the community and from the community to the City. This study is just one example of San
Mateo’ efforts to enhance the information flow to the City to better understand the community’s
concerns, perceptions, and needs. Some of San Mateo’ many efforts to communicate with its res-
idents include its newsletters, timely press releases, social media, and its website. In this sec-
tion, we present the results of several communication-related questions.
OVERALL SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION   Question 17 asked San Mateo
residents to report their satisfaction with city-resident communication. Overall, 70% of respon-
dents indicated they were satisfied with the City’s efforts to communicate with residents through
newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means. The remaining respondents were either
dissatisfied with the City’s efforts in this respect (19%) or unsure of their opinion (11%).
Question 17   Overall, are you satisfied or dissatisfied with the City's efforts to communicate
with residents through newsletters, the Internet, social media, and other means? 
FIGURE 21  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION
The next three figures display how satisfaction with the City’s efforts to communicate with resi-
dents varied by length of residence, presence and age(s) of children in the home, presence of an
adult 65 years and older in the household, age of the respondent, gender, ethnicity, satisfaction
with the City’s overall performance in providing services, and home ownership status. 
As is often the case, residents dissatisfied with the City’s overall performance or unsure of their
rating were also the least satisfied with the City’s communication efforts, whereas those gener-
ally satisfied with the City were the most satisfied with city-resident communication. It is also
noteworthy that newer residents (less than 1 year) and younger residents (under 25) were gener-
ally less satisfied than their counterparts with respect to city-resident communication.
Not sure
10.2
Prefer not to 
answer
0.6
Very 
dissatisfied
5.0
Somewhat 
dissatisfied
14.3
Very satisfied
21.3
Somewhat 
satisfied
48.7
711 of 734

--- page 712 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2020 33
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 22  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO, CHILD IN HSLD & ADULT OVER 65 IN 
HSLD
FIGURE 23  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY AGE & GENDER
FIGURE 24  SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION BY ETHNICITY, OVERALL SATISFACTION & HOME OWNERSHIP STATUS
20.0
20.6
18.8
22.0
25.1
19.7
47.7
49.0
48.4
49.3
47.8
50.8
21.1
23.0
24.3
Very
satisfied
20.5
53.9
47.9
51.8
Somewhat
satisfied
39.1
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Less than 1
1 to 4
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or more
Yes, under
18
Yes, under 6
None
Yes
No
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
% Respondents
19.5
29.8
18.3
24.4
50.8
47.0
52.3
46.3
Very
satisfied
10.0
21.4
20.7
24.0
Somewhat
satisfied
52.3
43.5
49.8
48.3
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Male
Female
Age (QD1)
Gender (QD2)
% Respondents
25.4
8.9
13.1
22.2
20.6
53.0
35.4
36.4
49.8
47.6
23.7
26.2
17.7
Very
satisfied
20.9
55.8
43.8
43.7
Somewhat
satisfied
51.0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Caucasian /
White
Asian
American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or
other
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Not sure
Own
Rent
Ethnicity (QD10)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
Home Ownership Status (QD6)
% Respondents
712 of 734

--- page 713 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2020 34
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SOURCES OF INFORMATION   To help the City identify the most effective means of com-
municating with residents, it is helpful to understand what information sources they currently
rely on for this type of information. Question 18 asked respondents to identify the top three
information sources they typically use to find out about City of San Mateo news, events, and pro-
grams. Because respondents were allowed to provide up to three sources, the percentages
shown in Figure 25 represent the percentage of residents who mentioned a particular source and
thus sum to more than 100.
The most frequently cited source for city information was the San Mateo Daily Journal, men-
tioned by 37% of respondents. The Daily Journal was followed by letters, postcards, flyers, or
brochures mailed to the home (31%), email notifications from the City (31%), and the social
media website and app Nextdoor (26%). 
Question 18   What information sources do you use to find out about City of San Mateo news,
events, and programs? 
FIGURE 25  INFORMATION SOURCES
Figures 26 to 28 on the next page present the information source categories by a number of key
demographic traits. For ease of interpretation, the bars representing city-sponsored sources are
displayed in shades of green, and non-city sources in shades of orange.
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.8
2.0
2.6
2.7
2.7
2.9
4.5
5.9
9.5
10.9
14.3
15.2
15.7
16.4
26.2
30.6
31.1
37.1
4.2
6.2
0
10
20
30
40
City Council Meetings
Not sure
Other social media site
Other newspaper
Radio
Instagram
Other sources
Twitter
Do Not Receive Information about City
Mercury News (daily newspaper)
Television (general)
HOA or neighborhood association
Daily Post (daily newspaper)
San Francisco Chronicle (daily newspaper)
Facebook
Street banners or message signs
City Website
Friends/Family/Associates/word of mouth
Internet (not City’s site)
Nextdoor.com
Email notifications from City
Letters, postcards, flyers, brochures mailed to home
San Mateo Daily Journal (daily newspaper)
% Respondents
713 of 734

--- page 714 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2020 35
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
FIGURE 26  INFORMATION SOURCES BY OVERALL, AGE & SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION
FIGURE 27  INFORMATION SOURCES BY ETHNICITY, CHILD IN HSLD & ADULT OVER 65 IN HSLD
FIGURE 28  INFORMATION SOURCES BY YEARS IN SAN MATEO & OVERALL SATISFACTION
47
47
36
40
47
55
62
50
48
41
29
46
38
33
38
50
42
32
30
39
40
31
9
39
32
30
35
34
35
25
23
30
19
16
27
20
30
21
29
17
21
26
14
13
16
10
17
16
14
14
21
16
12
14
10
16
9
6
14
1
3
6
5
11
6
6
2
0
2
0
3
2
1
1
8
5
10
7
3
3
4
2
2
2
34
49
34
46
36
49
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Overall
Age (QD1)
Satisfaction With
Communication (Q17)
% Respondents
Newspapers
City website, emails
Social Media
City newsletters, direct mail
Other sources
Non-City websites
Street banners, message
signs
Radio, TV
City Council Meetings
Not sure / No sources
48
31
52
58
44
42
49
59
42
40
42
47
41
32
42
33
50
52
33
31
42
30
43
29
24
29
32
32
30
32
26
18
25
17
26
19
22
26
22
15
20
17
21
15
17
18
12
19
14
18
17
10
14
14
15
9
17
6
6
5
9
3
2
7
10
4
1
1
3
0
1
2
2
1
2
5
4
1
5
3
3
5
5
4
44
42
39
39
42
41
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Caucasian /
White
Asian
American
Latino /
Hispanic
Mixed or
other
Yes, under 18 Yes, under 6
None
Yes
No
Ethnicity (QD10)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Adult Over 65 in Hsld
(QD5)
% Respondents
Newspapers
City website, emails
Social Media
City newsletters, direct mail
Other sources
Non-City websites
Street banners, message
signs
Radio, TV
City Council Meetings
Not sure / No sources
16
37
36
46
57
47
54
35
28
40
43
38
42
41
42
36
38
40
38
38
37
26
34
29
33
26
22
17
22
15
26
26
21
28
25
27
21
24
14
12
17
15
17
26
21
15
9
11
16
8
13
4
3
6
4
8
5
10
5
1
2
2
1
2
1
2
1
15
4
4
4
4
4
4
13
50
49
40
28
39
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Less than 1
1 to 4
5 to 9
10 to 14
15 or more
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Not sure
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
% Respondents
Newspapers
City website, emails
Social Media
City newsletters, direct mail
Other sources
Non-City websites
Street banners, message
signs
Radio, TV
City Council Meetings
Not sure / No sources
714 of 734

--- page 715 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2020 36
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
COMMUNICATION PREFERENCES   The next communication-related question presented
residents with the methods shown to the left of Figure 29, and asked whether each would be an
effective way for the City to communicate with them. Overall, respondents indicated that email
was the most effective method (88% very or somewhat effective), followed by postcards, letters,
and newsletters mailed to the home (i.e., direct mail, 79%), social media like Facebook, Twitter,
and Nextdoor (77%), and the City’s website (69%). Television programs (40%), advertisements in
local papers (43%), and town hall meetings (49%) were generally viewed by residents as less
effective ways for the City to communicate with them.
Question 19   As I read the following ways that the City of San Mateo can communicate with res-
idents, I'd like to know if you think they would be very effective, somewhat effective, or not an
effective way for the City to communicate with you.
FIGURE 29  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS
Table 23 below and the two tables on the next page show how the percentage of residents that
rated each communication method as very effective varied depending on their age, satisfaction
with the City’s overall efforts to provide municipal services, ethnicity, presence and age(s) of chil-
dren in the home, and satisfaction with city-resident communication. 
TABLE 23  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY AGE (SHOWING % VERY EFFECTIVE)
11.2
9.9
11.9
22.1
39.4
37.2
53.8
28.4
33.5
37.4
47.2
37.4
41.5
34.0
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Television programs
Advertisements in local papers
Townhall meetings
City’s Website
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
E-mail
Q19g
Q19d
Q19f
Q19c
Q19e
Q19b
Q19a
% Respondents
Very effective
Somewhat effective
18 to 24
25 to 34
35 to 44
45 to 54
55 to 64
65 or older
E-mail
57.6
57.6
54.6
56.9
55.6
47.3
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
47.8
47.8
45.9
41.5
27.2
25.0
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
26.1
26.1
36.5
37.4
41.7
39.7
City’s Website
14.5
14.5
22.0
24.7
25.3
21.5
Townhall meetings
10.9
10.9
9.0
12.9
13.9
14.5
Television programs
24.5
24.5
9.6
8.0
10.4
9.1
Advertisements in local papers
15.6
15.6
3.6
8.2
9.4
18.9
Age (QD1)
715 of 734

--- page 716 ---
Communications
True North Research, Inc. © 2020 37
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLE 24  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY OVERALL SATISFACTION & ETHNICITY (SHOWING % VERY 
EFFECTIVE)
TABLE 25  EFFECTIVENESS OF COMMUNICATION METHODS BY CHILD IN HSLD & SATISFACTION WITH COMMUNICATION 
(SHOWING % VERY EFFECTIVE)
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
Not sure
Caucasian/
White
Asian
American
Latino/
Hispanic
Mixed or
other
E-mail
55.9
44.6
55.1
54.1
54.5
55.3
51.5
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
41.0
33.6
37.1
36.5
41.1
46.1
42.5
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
39.7
31.9
25.4
38.0
34.6
38.7
33.8
City’s Website
23.1
22.3
14.8
19.0
17.7
26.2
28.9
Townhall meetings
11.9
12.0
13.2
12.0
8.1
14.1
13.5
Television programs
10.6
12.1
15.4
5.5
6.8
21.7
21.6
Advertisements in local papers
10.3
10.1
6.3
9.7
4.7
14.9
10.7
Ethnicity (QD10)
Overall Satisfaction (Q5)
Yes, 
under 18
Yes,
under 6
None
Satisfied
Dissatisfied
E-mail
59.6
62.1
51.4
56.8
52.2
Social media like Facebook, Twitter and Next Door
48.1
56.0
35.4
42.7
32.9
Postcards, letters and newsletters mailed to your home
37.0
37.5
36.6
40.1
35.7
City’s Website
22.5
25.9
20.9
24.2
18.2
Townhall meetings
11.7
11.1
12.0
13.4
10.2
Television programs
12.2
15.1
10.3
11.4
12.2
Advertisements in local papers
8.9
8.0
10.6
10.1
13.0
Satisfaction With
Communication (Q17)
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
716 of 734

--- page 717 ---
Background & Demographics
True North Research, Inc. © 2020 38
City of San Mateo
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B A C K G R O U N D  &  D E M O G R A P H I C S
TABLE 26  DEMOGRAPHICS OF SAMPLE
Table 26 presents the key demographic information col-
lected during the survey. The primary motivation for col-
lecting the background and demographic information was
to provide a better insight into how the results of the sub-
stantive questions of the survey vary by demographic char-
acteristics, and to ensure that the resulting sample
matched the profile of San Mateo’s adult population on key
characteristics.
Total Respondents
1,276
Years in San Mateo (Q1)
Less than 1
5.8
1 to 4
18.5
5 to 9
12.8
10 to 14
10.1
15 or more
52.4
Prefer not to answer
0.4
Age (QD1)
18 to 24
9.0
25 to 34
20.5
35 to 44
21.0
45 to 54
16.8
55 to 64
12.8
65 or older
15.7
Prefer not to answer
4.2
Child in Hsld (QD3,4)
Yes, under 18
34.3
Yes, under 6
16.5
None
60.5
Prefer not to answer
5.2
Adult Over 65 in Hsld (QD5)
Yes
32.1
No
63.0
Prefer not to answer
4.9
Home Ownership Status (QD6)
Own
56.7
Rent
40.1
Prefer not to answer
3.2
Home Type (QD7)
Single family
60.1
Townhome
8.4
Condo
9.6
Apartment
18.5
Prefer not to answer
3.3
Anticipated Years in San Mateo (QD8)
Less than 5
20.0
5 to 10
25.2
11 to 15
10.5
16 or more
33.7
Prefer not to answer
10.5
Employment Status (QD9)
Full-time
63.4
Part-time
5.3
Student
5.4
Homemaker
2.5
Retired
15.6
Between jobs
2.2
Prefer not to answer
5.5
Ethnicity (QD10)
Caucasian / White
39.8
Asian American
18.3
Latino / Hispanic
23.5
Mixed or other
10.4
Prefer not to answer
8.0
Gender
Male
45.2
Female
50.5
Not listed
0.6
Prefer not to answer
3.7
717 of 734

--- page 718 ---
Population % of Population
97,151
55,177
56.8%
41,974
43.2%
23,865
24.6%
18,109
18.6%
18,403
18.9%
8,385
8.6%
10,018
10.3%
592
0.6%
521
0.5%
71
0.1%
665
0.7%
603
0.6%
62
0.1%
1,526
1.6%
940
1.0%
586
0.6%
4,236
4.4%
3,133
3.2%
1,103
1.1%
719
0.7%
463
0.5%
256
0.3%
8,152
8.4%
4,448
4.6%
3,704
3.8%
357
0.4%
227
0.2%
130
0.1%
2,730
2.8%
2,021
2.1%
709
0.7%
3,588
3.7%
2,367
2.4%
1,221
1.3%
674
0.7%
526
0.5%
148
0.2%
332
0.3%
231
0.2%
101
0.1%
Residents who speak other and unspecified languages
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Source: 2019 American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates Table C16001
Residents who speak other Asian and Pacific Island languages
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Residents who speak Arabic
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Residents who speak Korean
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Residents who speak Chinese (incl. Mandarin, Cantonese)
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Residents who speak Vietnamese
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Residents who speak Tagalog (incl. Filipino)
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Residents who speak French, Haitian, or Cajun
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Residents who speak German or other West Germanic languages
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Residents who speak Russian, Polish, or other Slavic languages
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Residents who speak other Indo-European languages
Speak English "very well"
Speak English "less than very well"
Residents who speak another language and speak English "very well"
Residents who speak another language and speak English "less than very well"
City of San Mateo - Estimates of Language Spoken
Total Residents
Residents who speak a language other than English
Residents who speak Spanish
Speak English "very well"
Residents who speak only English
718 of 734

--- page 719 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  27
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4671
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
June 07, 2021 
SUBJECT:
2020 Climate Action Plan – Annual Progress Report
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on the implementation of the 2020 Climate Action Plan.
BACKGROUND:
In April 2015, City Council adopted the City’s first Climate Action Plan (CAP). This plan served as the City’s comprehensive 
strategy to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and staff has provided annual updates to the Sustainability 
Commission and City Council on CAP implementation. Since 2019, staff engaged the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission and the public in the development of an updated 2020 CAP that establishes new greenhouse gas emission 
targets for 2030 and 2050 and identifies creative and innovative new strategies to meet these targets. The City Council 
adopted the 2020 CAP at the April 6, 2020 City Council meeting. This report summarizes the progress made on the 
implementation of the 2020 CAP. This information was also presented to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
at its May 12, 2021 meeting.
The impacts of the COVID-19 lockdown caused a record drop in carbon emissions, but despite the sharp drop in the early 
part of 2020, data shows that global emissions picked up in the second half of the year. Emissions from transportation 
accounted for the largest decline with a drop in car trips and aviation. Compared to 2019, the United States’ emissions 
decreased by 12% and the European Union’s emissions by 11%. However, China’s emissions dropped only 1.7% compared 
to 2019, likely reflective of the more limited duration of their lockdown and their ability to recover more quickly. As global 
economies continue to recover, carbon emissions will also rebound and the City’s CAP efforts continue to be a priority to 
support sustainable and long-term emission reductions in our community.
2020 Climate Action Plan Implementation
The 2020 CAP contains implementation measures in the following categories: building electrification, renewable energy, 
energy efficiency, municipal energy efficiency, clean transportation fuels, sustainable transportation, solid waste, water 
and wastewater, and off-road equipment. Attachment 1 to this report provides both qualitative and quantitative data to 
show how progress has been made on each of the CAP measures, and Attachment 2 summarizes available metrics for each 
CAP measure. 
Some key highlights of implementation on the 2020 CAP are as follows:

Building Electrification Reach Codes: The City Council adopted a reach code requiring residential buildings and 
office buildings be constructed all-electric. The reach code also requires that new residential buildings with 100% 
affordable units be all-electric or exceed the State Energy Code. This reach code is effective January 1, 2021 
719 of 734

--- page 720 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
through December 31, 2022 (the end of the triennial code cycle) and replaces the City’s previously adopted 
building electrification reach codes that allowed two pathways for compliance.

Disposable Food Service Ware Ordinance: The City Council adopted the Disposable Food Service Ware Ordinance 
that will require food facilities and restaurants to use compostable products instead of plastic disposables. This 
ordinance goes into effect October 1, 2022. Staff also launched the “Quit the Cutlery” campaign in which 
restaurants pledge to only distribute cutlery, straws, condiment packets, etc. by request of the customer. This 
voluntary effort helps reduce waste as many customers are picking up food or getting delivery to eat at home. 

Sustainable Solutions Turnkey (SST): In 2018, the City entered into a contract with PG&E for the Sustainable 
Solutions Turnkey program to for energy efficiency upgrades at City facilities. The $3.2 million project includes 
upgrades at most facilities including City Hall, libraries, fire stations, and recreation facilities. All on-site work is 
now complete. The City has begun to pay back one of the two on-bill financing loan packages and just finalized the 
second on-bill financing loan package.

Electric Vehicle Infrastructure: Staff leveraged Peninsula Clean Energy’s electric vehicle ready technical assistance 
and applied to the California Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Project (CALeVIP) to install electric vehicle chargers at 
the Main Street Garage and the Second and El Camino Garage. The City was awarded funding for the Main Street 
Garage and is currently negotiating a contract with an installer. Funding for the Second and El Camino Garage is 
pending for a future funding cycle, and staff hope to install chargers at this site next year. 
As part of the 2020 CAP update, the City completed a 2018 GHG emission inventory. This inventory showed that the City 
has reduced emissions 18% below 2005 levels and exceeded the 2020 GHG target of 15% below 2005 levels. This progress 
report includes qualitative and quantitative data points to show the City’s progress on the various measures in the CAP. A 
formal GHG inventory analysis is a data intensive effort and is completed roughly every five years. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact from this informational report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - CAP Progress Report - 2021
Att 2 - CAP Matrix - 2021
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
720 of 734

--- page 721 ---
CAP PROGRESS REPORT - 2021
1
Climate Action Plan Progress Report
2021
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION
BE 1 ALL-ELECTRIC NEW CONSTRUCTION

In 2019, the City adopted a reach code that encouraged building electrification by allowing for 
two options for the construction of new buildings, either constructing an all-electric building or 
constructing a mixed-fuel building that meets higher efficiency standards that exceed the State’s 
requirements. See table below for more details. This reach code was in effect January 1, 2020 
through December 31, 2020 and was later replaced.
Building Electrification Reach Codes (Effective January 1, 2020 – December 31, 2020)
Building Type
Reach Code
New Single Family and Duplex 
buildings
Two compliance pathways:
1) Mixed fuel: Proposed Design Building shall be 2.5 EDR points 
less than the Efficiency EDR (roughly 15% above State Code)
2) All-electric:  0% above State Code
New Buildings with Office Use 
(including mixed-use buildings)
Two compliance pathways:
1) Mixed fuel: 10% above State Energy Code
2) All-electric:  0% above State Energy Code
All other building types including 
Accessory Dwelling Units
No local amendment

2020 Building Issuance Permit Analysis: 
o
Seven permits for new all-electric ADUs.
o
The Waters Park Project will result in 190 all-electric dwelling units including 28 single 
family units and 162 condominium units.

In 2020, the City adopted a reach code requiring residential buildings and office buildings be 
constructed all-electric. The reach code also requires that new residential buildings with 100% 
affordable units be all-electric or exceed the State Energy Code. This reach code is in effective 
January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2022 (the end of the triennial code cycle).
Building Electrification Reach Codes (Effective January 1, 2021 – December 31, 2022)
Building Type
Reach Code
New Residential Buildings (including single family 
and duplex homes, multifamily buildings and 
Accessory Dwelling Units)
Required to be constructed all-electric
721 of 734

--- page 722 ---
CAP PROGRESS REPORT - 2021
2
Building Type
Reach Code
New Nonresidential Buildings with Office use
Required to be constructed all-electric
New Residential Buildings with 100% affordable 
units
Two compliance pathways:
1) Mixed fuel: must exceed State Energy Code
2) All-electric: 0% above State Energy Code

The following residential projects will be subject to the City’s building electrification reach code 
and required to be all-electric: Concar Passage (961 units), 1919 O’Farrell (49 units), and 
Peninsula Heights (290 units). The Downtown Affordable Housing Project Kiku Crossing (225 
units) is also planned to be all-electric. These projects amount to 1,525 new all-electric 
residential units.
BE 2 ALL-ELECTRIC EXISTING BUILDINGS

Through the BayREN Home + Program, residents can receive rebates for the installation electric 
equipment including, heat pump hot water heaters, heat pump dryers or induction cooktops. 
RENEWABLE ENERGY
RE 1 PENINSULA CLEAN ENERGY

The City of San Mateo had an average opt out rate of 2.8% for 2020. This low opt out rate 
means 97.2% of San Mateo residents and businesses are powered by PCE.

Peninsula Clean Energy has an ambitious plan to have a diverse power portfolio that is 
greenhouse gas free will help the City reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with 
electricity consumption. PCE adopted the following procurement goals:
o
100% greenhouse gas free by 2021
o
sourced by 100% California renewable portfolio s eligible renewable energy by 2025, 
and 
o
create a minimum of 20 MWs of new local power by 2025.
RE 2 RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS FOR NEW AND EXISTING RESIDENCES

Beginning in the 2019 Code Cycle, the State of California Building Code requires all residential 
new construction to install solar.

The City provided information to property owners about discounts for solar including the annual 
Bay Area Sun Shares program and Peninsula Clean Energy’s rebate for solar and battery storage.

In 2020, the Community Development Department launched a new self-service online permit 
center in response to COVID-19. The online permit center allows Public to apply permits, submit 
plans, pay permit fees, receive issued permitted plans, and request inspections electronically. In 
addition, the “Virtual Over the Counter” featured in the online permit center allows a further 
streamlined and efficient process for permitting and installation of solar and battery storage 
systems.
722 of 734

--- page 723 ---
CAP PROGRESS REPORT - 2021
3
Solar Permits for Residential Buildings 
Issued By Year*
*Note:  These totals are inclusive of battery storage.
Year
# of Solar 
Permits 
Issued
Total 
kW
Average kW 
per 
Installation
2020
248
1,844
7.4
2019
250
1,969
7.8
2018
166
1,056
6.4
2017
156
726
4.7
2016
221
1,046
4.8
Battery Storage Permits Issued By Year
Year
# of Battery 
Storage Permits 
Issued
2020
87
2019
42
2018
6
2017
9
RE 3 RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS FOR NEW AND EXISTING NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS

The City adopted a reach code requiring the installation of solar on all non-residential new 
construction for the 2019 Code Cycle.
Solar Permits for Nonresidential Buildings Issued By Year
Year
# of Solar 
Permits 
Issued
Total 
kW
Average kW 
per 
Installation
2020
2
11.8
5.9
2019
1
92.4
92.4
2018
5
320.2
1,601.1
2017
2
28.7
57.3
2016
4
117.5
470.1
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
EE 1 RESIDENTIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY RETROFITS

The BayREN Home + program provides rebates for energy efficiency upgrades including building 
air sealing, insulation, duct replacement and sealing, and more. In 2020, 16 single family home 
retrofits were completed, this equals 41 individual measure rebates issued. 

In 2020, 44 new Energy Advisor leads were generated. The Energy Advisors are a resource to 
residents interested in making an energy upgrade or in the BayREN Home + program.
723 of 734

--- page 724 ---
CAP PROGRESS REPORT - 2021
4
EE 2 NONRESIDENTIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY RETROFITS

There are 19 certified businesses in San Mateo certified through the San Mateo County Green 
Business Program. Currently, there are 18 additional businesses that have registered and are in 
the process of certification.
EE 3 RESIDENTIAL TREE PLANTING

In addition to tree plantings in City parks, 150 trees are planted in City streets annually. Not all 
tree plantings are in residential areas but nonetheless help reduce the urban heat island effect 
and reduce cooling loads.
MUNICIPAL ENERGY EFFICENCY
ME 1 ENERGY EFFICIENCY FOR NEW BUILDINGS

The construction of Fire Station 25 in nearing completion. Fire Station 25 includes the 
installation of 10 kW of solar PV that exceeds the minimum required by the City’s reach code.

The San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant is pursuing certification for the Administration 
Building under LEED v4 for New Construction. The project is targeting a minimum LEED Silver 
certification. The project includes a 25 kW PV system on the roof of the Administration Building 
and installation of five electric vehicle chargers. 
ME 2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY AT EXISTING MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS

In 2018, the City entered into a contract with PG&E for the Sustainable Solutions Turnkey (SST) 
program to for $3.2 million worth of energy efficiency upgrades at City facilities:
o
Lighting upgrades at the following facilities: Second and El Camino Garage, Police 
Department Garage, Transit Center Garage, Tennis Garage, Main Street Garage, Central 
Garage, Joinville Ball Park, Central Park Ball Park, MLK Ball Park, and the Corps Yard.
o
Lighting and HVAC upgrades at the following facilities: Fire Stations 21, 23, 24, 26 and 
27; Police Department, Beresford Recreation Center, Senior Center, City Hall, MLK 
Center, Joinville Swim Center, Poplar Creek Golf, Main Library, Hillsdale Branch Library, 
Lakeshore Preschool and Central Park Rec Center.
o
Estimated Annual Energy Savings: 1,831,170 kWh 
o
Estimated Annual Gas Savings: 22,871 therms

The City upgraded the Council Chambers restrooms and is in the process of upgrading the City 
Hall atrium restrooms. Both restroom upgrade projects include the installation of water efficient 
plumbing fixtures and low voltage lighting with automatic timers and vacancy sensors.

The City will be starting Phase IV upgrades to restrooms at three park locations with water 
efficient plumbing fixtures and low voltage lighting with automatic timers and vacancy sensors.

The City is in the process of updating one of the King Center kitchens with energy efficient 
appliances.
ME 3 ALL-ELECTRIC MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS

The City is constructing a new Downtown Parking Garage as part of the Kiku Crossing affordable 
housing project. The new Downtown Parking Garage will be all-electric and include the 
724 of 734

--- page 725 ---
CAP PROGRESS REPORT - 2021
5
installation of at least 26 electric vehicle chargers to comply with the City’s reach code. The City 
will install a solar system on the parking garage to meet and likely exceed the City’s solar reach 
code requirement. 

The City is participating in a critical facilities assessment with Peninsula Clean Energy to identify 
facilities to install solar and battery storage that might serve as a possible resilient site in the 
event of grid outages. Through this process, the City provided facility data to PCE for review and 
assessment. The San Mateo Police Department was selected as a site with potential 
opportunity, PCE and consultant staff toured the site and are currently undergoing further 
analysis.
CLEAN TRANSPORTATION FUELS
CF 1 ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE

More than 130 electric vehicle charging ports are available to the public throughout San Mateo. 
In 2020, supercharger stations were installed at the Laurelwood Shopping Center and Bank of 
America on El Camino Real near Hillsdale Shopping Center.

The City adopted a reach code requiring a higher percentage of electric vehicle (EV) readiness in 
all new construction. The City also adopted a reach code requiring the installation of Level 2 EV 
Charging infrastructure in nonresidential new construction.
Electric Vehicle Charging Permits Issued By Year
Year
# of EV Charging Permits 
Issued
2020
25
2019
52
2018
41
2017
10
2016
5
CF 2 ELECTRIC VEHICLE EDUCATION AND OUTREACH

City staff promoted Peninsula Clean Energy’s incentives for electric vehicles. Some programs are 
ongoing including the PCE Used EV Rebate Program that offers rebates for income-qualifying 
San Mateo County residents up to $4,000 for the purchase of a used EV. PCE also offers an EV 
rental discount for those interested in experiencing an EV. In addition, PCE offered a limited 
time rebate for the purchase of a new all-battery electric vehicle or a new plug-in hybrid electric 
vehicle October through December 2020.
CF 3 CLEAN CITY FLEET

The City Council prioritized evaluation of the feasibility of a Green Fleet by 2030 for the FY 2021-
22 Strategic Plan. As part of this effort, the City plans to review past-due replacement vehicles 
and determine replacement strategies. Furthermore, staff will evaluate future CNG facility 
maintenance costs and potential for installation of additional EV infrastructure at City facilities 
for fleet use. 
725 of 734

--- page 726 ---
CAP PROGRESS REPORT - 2021
6

City staff have participated in the City of Fremont’s Fleet Electrification Study Regional Working 
Group which has developed an EV Fleet “Best Practices Guide.” The City will leverage other 
partnerships including San Mateo County’s Facilities and Fleet Working Group to make progress 
on the City’s Green Fleet goals.

The City operates a fleet of 232 vehicles. Currently 59 of these vehicles are alternative fuel 
vehicles:
City Fleet by Fuel Type
Fuel Type
# of Vehicles
Hybrid (Gas/Electric)
25
CNG
19
Electric
14
Bi-fuel (CNG/Gas)
1
CF 4 CLEAN FUEL AND VEHICLE EMISSIONS

The DMV provides data on registered vehicles annually in the County of San Mateo. City level 
data is only available for 2018. Overall, the number of battery electric and plug-in hybrid 
vehicles is growing in the region.
Vehicles by Fuel Type in the City of San Mateo
Year
Battery 
Electric
Diesel
Ethanol
Gasoline
Fuel 
Cell
Hybrid 
Gas
Plug-in 
Hybrid
Natural 
Gas
Other
Total
20181
1,236
1,549
2,359
75,050
0
4,519
772
42
0
85,528
Vehicles by Fuel Type in the County of San Mateo
Year
Battery 
Electric
Diesel
Ethanol
Fuel 
Cell
Gasoline
Hybrid 
Gas
Plug-in 
Hybrid
Natural 
Gas
Other
Total
20202
15,820
15,743
24,032
166
608,904
35,586
7,029
390
15
710,685
20193
12,312
15,781
21,367
139
626,664
37,714
6,182
331
98
720,558
20184
10,604
16,247
16,924
132
609,866
37,383
5,779
348
126
701,794
SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORTATION
ST 1 BICYCLE MODE SHARE

In response to health orders, the City implemented Safe Streets on residential streets to provide 
more space for recreating outdoors while social distancing. As of January 2021, the Safe Street 
on 28th Avenue from East Kyne Street to Saratoga Drive has transitioned into a bicycle 
boulevard.
1 https://www.dmv.ca.gov/portal/file/fuel-type-by-city-as-of-october-1-2018-pdf/
2 https://www.dmv.ca.gov/portal/file/motorvehiclefueltypes_county_01012020-pdf
3 https://www.dmv.ca.gov/portal/file/california-motor-vehicle-fuel-types-by-county-01012019-pdf/
4 https://www.dmv.ca.gov/portal/file/california-motor-vehicle-fuel-types-by-county-10012018-pdf/
726 of 734

--- page 727 ---
CAP PROGRESS REPORT - 2021
7

The City is implementing its first bicycle boulevard on 28th Avenue between Mason Lane and El 
Camino Real. Construction began in October 2020 and work is expected to be complete by 
Spring 2021.

The City received funding from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 
Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) to design and construct Class II bike lanes and a 
bicycle boulevard on Poplar Avenue, Delaware Street, Indian Avenue, and Humboldt Street.

The City anticipates receiving $1.66M from the 2021 Regional ATP Cycle 5 to fund the design and 
construction of a safe routes to school corridor comprised of a new Class IV separated bike lane 
and bicycle boulevard on Delaware Street.

The City received $153,000 in grant funding in October 2020 to improve bicycle and pedestrian 
access to the new Hillsdale Caltrain Station. A new bike facility will be constructed on 28th Avenue 
from Edison Street to El Camino Real that will close a gap in the bicycle network and connect 
bicyclists to the Caltrain station at 28th Avenue. 
ST 2 PEDESTRIAN MODE SHARE

The City received $75,117 in funding in July 2019 from City/County Association of Government 
of San Mateo County (C/CAG) TDA Article 3 Pedestrian and Bicycle Program Call for Projects. The 
funding will be used to develop a Transit-Oriented Pedestrian Access Plan, which aims to 
improve pedestrian conditions within one-half mile radius to the City’s Caltrain stations and 
high-quality transit stops. 

The City is implementing Complete Streets improvements on North San Mateo Drive from 
Baldwin Avenue to Peninsula Avenue that include new pedestrian lighting, curb extensions at 
pedestrian crossings, and Class II bike lanes. Construction began in August 2020 and is expected 
to be complete in Spring 2021.
ST 3 MICROMOBILITY AND SHARED MOBILITY 

City Council adopted the Shared Mobility Permit Program in 2019 but unfortunately did not 
receive any applications from shared mobility operators. At this time, shared mobility operators 
are focused on building out in larger urban markets (e.g., San Francisco, San Jose, and Oakland).

Staff continues to participate in a Shared Mobility Working Group coordinated by Caltrain to 
facilitate regional partnerships and share best practices as related to shared mobility. 
ST 4 PUBLIC TRANSIT SERVICE

City staff participate in Reimagine SamTrans effort to assess existing transit service and evaluate 
options for future mobility services.

City staff are working with Caltrain staff to enhance bicycle parking and access to stations.
ST 5 COMMUTER PROGRAMS

San Mateo County’s Transportation Demand Management Agency, Commute.org maintains a 
suite of programs aimed at reducing vehicle miles traveled. Commute.org provides carpool 
727 of 734

--- page 728 ---
CAP PROGRESS REPORT - 2021
8
incentives to employers and conducts outreach campaigns about available shuttle and vanpool 
options.

COVID-19 drastically changed the workplace. Commute.org has maintained shuttle services in 
San Mateo and pivoted to providing employer resources focused on telework.
ST 6 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT

City staff applied for a grant funding to develop a citywide Transportation Demand Management 
ordinance.
ST 7 TRANSIT-ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT

The Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan provides guidance for development within 
a half-mile of the Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain station areas.

Transit-Oriented Development projects approved in 2020 include the Passages and Kiku 
Crossings.

Transit-Oriented Development projects that are currently under construction include the Station 
Park Green development, 1650 S. Delaware Street, 303 Baldwin Avenue (Trag’s Market), and 
2600 S. Delaware Street (Bay Meadows Phase II).
SOLID WASTE
SW 1 COMPOSTING PROGRAM

Currently, 144 multifamily buildings out of 819 multifamily buildings have composting service. 
Staff are working on a number of actions to increase composting in multifamily buildings:
o
Recology staff is reaching out to HOA/property manager with support of City staff 
regarding composting programs including virtual meetings during COVID. 
o
A new Multi-Family Property Manager Guide was recently developed and distributed to 
all multi-family rate payers. It includes tips and tools regarding proper disposal of 
garbage, recycling, compost hazardous waste, batteries, Christmas trees and large bulky 
items. The tools include Recycling Buddy bags, kitchen pails for compost, battery and 
cell phone buckets, and new picture heavy signage. 

The Organic to Energy Pilot Program at the Shoreway Environmental Center will start in 
2021 after many delays due to COVID. The goal of the program is to extract all the organic 
wet waste out of the multi-family/commercial sector garbage using it for alternative energy 
diverting it from landfill. Data will be collected over the next six months. If all goes as 
anticipated, the program will go into full production early 2022. 
SW 2 EXPANDED RECYCLING SERVICE

Recology reported no rejected loads of organic or recycling materials due to contamination. The 
current levels of contamination threshold per the franchise agreement is not to exceed 8% for 
recycling, 10% for commercial organics and 5% for residential organics.

Below are the State’s compliance goals for the City’s waste generation and the City’s actuals. To 
date, the City is exceeding the State’s compliance goals.
728 of 734

--- page 729 ---
CAP PROGRESS REPORT - 2021
9
City’s Waste Generation Compared to State Goals
Pounds of 
Waste Generated per Day
State’s Not to Exceed 
Compliance Goal
City’s Actuals
Resident
5.8 pounds
4.5 pounds
Employee
13.3 pounds
8.4 pounds
SW 3 WASTE AWARENESS AND SOURCE REDUCTION

The City Council adopted the “Disposable Food Service Ware Ordinance” modeled after the 
County of San Mateo’s ordinance. The ordinance requires food facilities distribute disposable 
items that are fiber-based and compostable. The ordinance will go into effect in October 2022. 

The City is working with two volunteers to encourage food facilities to take the “Quit the 
Cutlery” pledge. By taking the pledge, a food facility commits to providing cutlery, straws, and 
condiment packets only by request or acceptance by the customer. The volunteers made 60 
phone calls and e-mailed 95 businesses. To date, seven restaurants have signed the “Quit the 
Cutlery” pledge.

Team Up To Clean Up brings San Mateo residents and neighborhoods together in a joint effort 
to eliminate litter in our streets, storm drains, parks, and waterways. Our City program organizes 
once a month cleanups in areas in need of cleaning up. Our program also teamed up with the 
County’s Bay Front Cleanup initiative where San Mateo residents picked up 362.35 lbs of trash 
and covered 7.79 miles.
WATER AND WASTEWATER
WW 1 WATER EFFICIENCY RETROFITS FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS

CalWater provides rebates for high-efficiency toilets, high-efficiency clothes washers, smart 
irrigation controllers and high-efficiency sprinkler nozzles for residents.

CalWater provides rebates for high-efficiency toilets, high-efficiency urinals, smart irrigation 
controllers, high-efficiency sprinkler nozzles, large rotary nozzles, and spray bodies with 
integrated pressure and check valves for commercial customers.

The City of San Mateo continues to provide a matching funds for rain barrels rebates for 
residents. 
Rain Barrel Rebates
Year
Number of Rain 
Barrel Rebates 
Distributed
FY 2020-21  
8 (to date)
FY 2019-20
2
FY 2018-19
10
FY 2017-18
34
729 of 734

--- page 730 ---
CAP PROGRESS REPORT - 2021
10
WW 2 WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING

On October 21, 2020 the City hosted a workshop on “Native Plants and Pollinator Gardens” in 
partnership with the City of Millbrae and BAWSCA. In 2020, all of BAWSCA’s workshops were 
held virtually and were accessible to all San Mateo residents. 

At the entrance to Central Park off 9th Avenue, the ornamental lawn was removed and replaced 
with a drought tolerant planting in 2020.

Staff have increased the use of wood mulch to help reduce moisture requirements for plantings 
at City parks.
WW 3 WATER EFFICIENCY IN NEW CONSTRUCTION

Staff will explore reach codes for indoor and outdoor water efficiency for the next building code 
cycle.
OFF-ROAD EQUIPMENT
OR 1 ALTERNATIVE FUEL LAWN AND GARDEN EQUIPMENT

Staff are focusing on outreaching to property owners and landscaping companies about the 
availability of electric landscaping equipment. 

Staff is in the process of developing a rebate program for electric leaf blower equipment.

At City facilities, staff continue to use electric power equipment in the Japanese Tea Garden.

Staff continue to review electric power equipment and participated in a demonstration of new 
products from a new vendor. No equipment replacement purchases were made recently, so the 
City has not invested in additional electric equipment.
730 of 734

--- page 731 ---
CAP Matrix - 2021
2030
2050
BE 1
All-electric new 
construction
4,640
7,420
Building Permits issued in 2020:
190 all-electric residential units and 7 all-
electric accessory dwelling units
BE 2
All-electric existing 
buildings
13,950
85,960
Rebates are provided for installation of electric 
equipment, no data is available on equipment 
conversion
RE 1 
Peninsula Clean Energy
1,060
0
2.8% opt out rate for 2020
RE 2
Renewable energy
systems for new
and existing
residences
170
0
248 solar permits for residential buildings were 
issued in 2020
RE 3
Renewable energy
systems for new
and existing
nonresidential
buildings
70
0
2 solar permits  for nonresidential buildings 
were issued in 2020
EE 1 
Residential energy
efficiency retrofits
6,030
17,860
16 single family home retrofits through 
BayREN Home + in 2020
EE2
Nonresidential
energy efficiency
retrofits
9,930
17,040
Currently, there are 19 certified green 
businesses in San Mateo
EE 3 
Residential tree 
plantings
<10
<10
150 trees planted on City streets annually
ME 1 
Energy efficiency
for new municipal
buildings
supportive
supportive
The San Mateo Wastewater Treatment Plant 
Admin Building is pursuing LEED Silver 
certification
ME 2
Energy efficiency
at existing
municipal
buildings
20
70
Municipal energy efficiency upgrades through 
SST:
Annual Electricty Savings: 1,831,170 kWh
Annual Gas Savings: 22,871 therms
ME 3
All-electric
municipal
buildings
110
210
The new Downtown Parking Garage (part of 
the Kiku Crossing project) will be all-electric
CF 1
Electric vehicle
charging
infrastructure
29,630
71,150
25 electric vehicle charging permits were 
issued in 2020
CF 2
Electric vehicle
education and
outreach
17,050
17,120
Staff provided information regarding 
incentives for electric vehicles
CF 3 
Clean City fleet
170
420
The City operates a fleet of 232 vehicles, 59 
(25%) of these vehicles are alternative fuel 
vehicles
Estimated GHG 
Reduction (MTCO2e)
Available Metrics
Measure
1
731 of 734

--- page 732 ---
CAP Matrix - 2021
CF 4
Clean fuel and vehicle 
emissions
3,130
7,000
As of 2018, there are 1,236 electric vehicles 
and 772 plug-in hybrid vehicles registered in 
San Mateo
ST 1
Bicycle mode
share
240
670
2 bike lanes are currently under construction
ST 2
Pedestrian mode
share
760
1,110
Complete Streets improvements are in 
progress on North San Mateo Drive from 
Baldwin Ave to Peninsula Ave
ST 3
Micromobility and
shared mobility
supportive
supportive
No Shared Mobility Permit applications 
submitted in 2020
ST 4
Public transit
services
9,130
25,110
Caltrain ridership counts delayed due to COVID-
19
ST 5
Commuter
programs
130
3,420
Commute.org continued to offer shuttle 
service
ST 6
Transportation
Demand
Management
2,330
8,460
City staff applied for grant funding to develop 
a citywide Transportation Demand 
Management ordinance
ST 7
Transit-oriented
development
990
2,370
Transit-Oriented Development projects 
approved in 2020 include the Passages project 
and Kiku Crossings.
SW 1
Composting program
12,650
14,850
18,600 tons of organic waste composted in 
2020
SW 2
Expanded
recycling service
5,360
8,530
City's Actual Waste Generation for 2020:
Resident 4.5 lb  (State goal: 5.8 lb)
Employee 8.4 lb  (State goal: 13.3 lb)
SW 3
Waste awareness
and source reduction
1,910
5,510
City adopted the Disposable Food Service 
Ware Ordinance
WW 1
Water efficiency
retrofits for existing 
buildings
100
230
8 rain barrel rebates were distrubted in FY 
2020-21 to date
WW 2
Water-efficient
landscaping
<10
0
Staff held virtual workshops to encourage 
water efficient landscaping
WW 3
Water efficiency in
new construction
<10
10
No progress to date
OR 1
Alternative fuel
lawn and garden
equipment
200
1,140
Staff is developing a rebate program for 
electric leaf blower equipment
2
732 of 734

--- page 733 ---
Mayor Diane Howard 
1017 MIDDLEFIELD ROAD 
Vice Mayor Giselle Hale 
Redwood City, California 94063 
 
Telephone (650) 780-7220 
Council Members: 
www.redwoodcity.org 
Alicia C. Aguirre 
 
Lissette Espinoza-Garnica 
 
Jeff Gee 
 
Diana Reddy 
 
Michael A. Smith 
 
 
 
 
 
 
May 27, 2021 
 
 
The Honorable Gavin Newsom  
Governor, State of California  
State Capitol, First Floor 
Sacramento, CA 95814 
 
Request for Extension of Current Residential Eviction Moratorium Through 2021 
 
 
Dear Governor Newsom: 
 
On behalf of the City of Redwood City, we write to request that your Administration’s “California 
Comeback” Budget plan include provisions to extend the current COVID-19 eviction moratorium 
protections set to expire on June 30, 2021 through the end of the calendar year.  
 
Redwood City has been a leader in San Mateo County on housing and homelessness initiatives including, 
most recently the launching of our own COVID-19 Rent Relief Program in March 2020 and establishing a 
Temporary Safe Parking Program in October 2020 to address health and safety for residents living in RVs 
on the streets in Redwood City.  Since the beginning of the pandemic, our City has invested $1.8 million 
in rent relief from City’s General Fund, the City’s Affordable Housing Fund, and federal CDBG funding.  
Leveraging our $1.8 million with San Mateo County funding, the City has provided over $3.3 million in 
rent relief to over 1,000 households and is now assisting local residents in applying for California 
COVID19 Rent Relief.  Redwood City is also home to two hotels purchased by San Mateo County as part 
of Project Homekey.    
 
In addition, we are actively engaging property owners and tenants while working on an anti-
displacement strategic plan to help reduce displacement in our community. However, despite our best 
efforts to provide the assistance needed to all City residents, our staff has witnessed many families who 
have attempted to pay their rent by accumulating debt through credit cards, friends, family, or 
predatory lenders. The families we serve do everything they can to pay their rent, even when faced with 
loss or reduction in employment multiple times. According to Faith in Action Bay Area, a large network 
of congregations and schools in San Francisco and San Mateo counties, “many families have already left 
the region due to the inability to pay rent, fear of debt, and fear of homelessness; massive displacement 
has already occurred”.  Members of the City Council have met personally with tenants who are 
struggling to stay afloat. Without sustained action by the State, we fear that we will see more 
displacement in our city and region. 
 
Implementation of the rental assistance program established by SB 91 [Chapter 2, Statutes of 2021] has 
been very difficult, with landlords and tenants alike reporting barriers to participating in this program. 
733 of 734

--- page 734 ---
Landlords have expressed concerns that they are not receiving funding in a timely manner from the 
State while tenants are still trying to navigate the complexities of this program. We encourage your 
Administration and the Legislature to work collaboratively to streamline this program to ensure that 
funding is being distributed expeditiously while eliminating barriers to entry. Additionally, to increase 
awareness and participation in the program, we ask that the state strongly encourage local jurisdictions 
to proactively work with trusted community based organizations to help conduct focused outreach in 
local communities.   These steps will ensure all who need this critical assistance can access it.  
 
The COVID-19-related health, economic and financial impacts on working class and immigrant families 
throughout our community remains pronounced—even while the economy begins to reopen. We 
appreciate that the “California Comeback” budget package announced by your Administration which 
proposes substantial funding to cover all back-rent and includes funding for future rent, key actions to 
help both tenants and property owners. Continuation of the current moratorium coupled with sustained 
funding is the only way to ensure that our most vulnerable residents do not slip through the cracks of 
the system and can remain in their homes.  
 
A key priority in our local pandemic response has been to prioritize the needs of our most vulnerable 
residents, and we believe that extending the current COVID-19 eviction moratorium through the balance 
of 2021, in conjunction with the financial support you have proposed, would help those most in need in 
Redwood City. We applaud the leadership and dedication your Administration has shown throughout 
this historic global pandemic to protect the health and safety of all Californians.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Diane Howard  
Mayor, Redwood City 
 
cc:  
City Council, City of Redwood City 
The Honorable Phil Ting, Chair Assembly Budget 
The Honorable Nancy Skinner, Chair Senate Budget  
The Honorable Kevin Mullin, Assembly District 22 
      
The Honorable Josh Becker, Senate District 13 
 
The Honorable Marc Berman, Assembly District 24 
 
Jason Elliot, Senior Advisor, Governor Gavin Newsom  
The Honorable David Chiu, Chair, Assembly Housing and Community Development Committee 
The Honorable Scott Weiner, Chair Senate Housing Committee 
Katie Kolitsos, Senior Advisor, The Honorable Anthony Rendon, Speaker, California State 
Assembly 
Diane Griffiths, Deputy Chief of Staff, The Honorable Toni Atkins, Pro Tempore, California State 
Senate 
734 of 734