source: packet.pdf
sha256: bcc230ca9c539384d047d179bcb4a9f24ea89f0ab14d0d3a0d32cf278c014741
pages: 13
ocr_pages: 1
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Sustainability & Infrastructure
Commission
April 13, 2022
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Adam Loraine, Chair
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair
Clifford Robbins
Rafael Reyes
Susan Rowinski
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB 361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: April 13, 2022
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 829 4843 9928
Passcode: 312573
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
1.
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting of March 9, 2022.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to Speak"
form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be referred to
staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Sustainability-Related Amendments to the 2022 Building Code
Provide feedback on potential amendments to the 2022 Building Code for new construction and existing buildings
related to building electrification and electric vehicle readiness.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments, calendar of events and requests for future agenda items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be viewed on the
City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be made
part of the official record.
1 of 13

--- page 2 ---
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: SandICommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. To indicate you want
to provide public comment, when the item of interest is open for consideration, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon press * 6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact Public Works Office at (650) 522-7300 or kaplan@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 13

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR 
File ID: 22-5976
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Azalea Mitch
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
April 13, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission regular meeting minutes approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Sustainability and Infrastructure meeting of March 9, 2022.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes of the March 9, 2022 meeting
3 of 13

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Sustainability & Infrastructure 
Commission  
March 9, 2022 
7:00 PM 
 
Remote Meeting 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS  
Adam Loraine, Chair  
Kimiko Narita, Vice Chair 
Clifford Robbins 
Rafael Reyes 
Susan Rowinski 
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER - This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / 
AB361 (2021) in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the 
Covid-19 health emergency. 
 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
Remote:  Chair Loraine, Commissioners Robbins, Narita, Reyes and Rowinski.   
 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
  
1. Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission Minutes - Approval  
 
Motion to amend the minutes to reflect the following commissioner comments regarding the North Central Bike 
Lane item: recommendation to examine an incentive program around bike supplies; continued commitment to 
the North Central community with constant communication and relationship building to repair trust and continue 
to monitor the present situation as the project unfolds; recommendation to include updates on the North Central 
bike lane project during the quarterly bicycle updates and to include parking mitigation planning and 
implementation. The North Central community will have the opportunity to provide feedback to the 
commissioners and staff as the project progresses. 
 
Motion to approve the February 9, 2022 minutes as amended. Motion passed 5-0 
 
Moved:    Robbins, Seconded:  Rowinski 
Ayes:       5 - Robbins, Narita, Rowinski, Reyes, and Loraine 
Noes:       None 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT - No public comment 
 
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a “Request to Speak” 
form.  State law prevents the commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda.  Your comments may be referred to staff 
for further review. 
 
 
 
 
 
4 of 13

--- page 5 ---
NEW BUSINESS  
 
2. Storm Water Funding – Survey Findings 
Sarah Scheidt, Environmental Compliance Manager and Jerry Bradshaw, Senior Engineer from SCI Consulting 
Group, provided a presentation to the Commission on stormwater funding survey findings and tentative staff 
recommendations for implementation of a Stormwater Fee, and provide related input.  
Commissioners asked questions of staff. 
 
Public Comment.  Following members of the public spoke to the item:  Keith Carlson, Mareva Godfrey, Rick 
Sakuda, and Sherry Markvow. 
 
No motion needed for this item, but commissioners voiced support on proceeding with implementing a robust 
public outreach and education program, focusing on residents versus the city, developing a fee report, and 
pursuing the Stormwater Fee at a level less than $100/year.  Future outreach strategies included 
recommendations to explore partnerships with Foster City for continued funding of Marina Lagoon, and to 
consider enhancing pedestrian walkways surrounding the lagoon.  
 
Staff will get back to the commission on how much it would cost for 2.5 full time salaries and check into a public 
comment made about cleaning up the area around the Hillsdale overpass, near the Lakeshore apartments. 
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENT FROM COMMISSIONER AND STAFF 
 
• Director Mitch informed the Commission that the strategic plan for FY 22/23 will be presented to 
Council on March 7 and will be adopted on April 4, 2022. Director Mitch will send a link on the 
published strategic plan to the Commissioners.  
• Director Mitch also spoke on the proposed plan for hybrid council and commission meetings. Starting 
with the April 4 council meeting, most councilmembers and all staff will be in person, but the public will 
have the choice to be virtual or in person.  The City will be rolling out the hybrid meetings for all 
commissions in the very near future.  
 
 
 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Adjourn: 9:00 pm 
 
Agendas and background material are posted on the City’s website www.cityofanmateo.org at least 72 hours preceding each 
Commission meeting.  Any supplemental material distributed to Commissioners after the posting of the agenda will be available for 
public review at City Hall, City Manager’s office. 330 W. 20th Avenue, San Mateo. 
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this 
meeting may contact the Public Works Department at (650) 522-7300.  Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the city to 
make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
 
5 of 13

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS 
File ID: 22-5892
TO:
Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
FROM:
Kathy Kleinbaum
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
April 13, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Sustainability-Related Amendments to the 2022 Building Code
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide feedback on potential amendments to the 2022 Building Code for new construction and existing buildings related 
to building electrification and electric vehicle readiness. 
BACKGROUND:
Transportation accounts for 50% of greenhouse gas emissions in San Mateo, followed by electricity and natural gas use in 
buildings that accounts for 34% of emissions. The City’s Climate Action Plan identifies encouraging adoption of electric 
vehicles (EV) and electrification of new and existing buildings as key focus areas to meet greenhouse gas emission 
reduction goals. Furthermore, the City Council directed staff to establish policies to decarbonize existing buildings and 
eliminate methane gas use by 2030. 
Local governments can adopt amendments to the building code, also known as “reach codes,” to require more sustainable 
development and address emissions from the transportation and building sectors. Reach codes are typically evaluated 
every three years in line with the State’s triennial building code cycle. The last building code was adopted in 2019 and went 
into effect on January 1, 2020. The 2022 building code will be adopted this fall and be effective January 1, 2023 through 
December 31, 2025. 
This report provides an overview of the importance building electrification and EV infrastructure, summarizes the City’s 
current reach codes, and introduces options for new reach codes addressing building electrification and EV readiness in 
new construction for the 2022 building code. This report also introduces possible reach codes to address building 
electrification in existing buildings for the 2022 building code.
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION AND EV READINESS BACKGROUND
All-electric buildings or building electrification refers to buildings that have no natural gas service. All-electric buildings use 
electric equipment for space and water heating, clothes drying, cooking, and more. Building electrification has gained 
traction in recent years because Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE), San Mateo County’s electricity provider, supplies very clean 
electricity to the community. Currently, PCE provides electricity that is 50% renewable and 100% carbon free. PCE is 
committed to delivering 100% renewable and carbon free electricity by 2025. This ambitious energy portfolio greatly 
reduces emissions from buildings. 
While electricity has become cleaner, natural gas is a fossil fuel producing significant emissions. The primary component of 
natural gas is methane, which contributes emissions with a very high global warming potential. Leakage from natural gas 
infrastructure adds to emissions as gas leakage occurs during production, transmission, and even at the building level. 
There are health and safety concerns associated with the transmission and use of natural gas in homes. Natural gas can 
6 of 13

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
produce hazardous gases within buildings and many cooking stoves are not equipped with proper ventilation.
Bolstering EV charging infrastructure is an important priority in the Climate Action Plan and critical to reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions in the transportation sector. The State established ambitious goals around electrifying vehicles and by 2035, 
the sale of all new passenger cars and trucks will be zero-emission. The sale of electric vehicles in San Mateo County has 
grown rapidly over the past ten years, last year 20% of new vehicle sales were electric. To meet the State’s aggressive 
climate goals, millions of more charging ports will need to be installed throughout the state. The availability of home 
charging is specifically important because the lack of at-home charging is considered the primary barrier to EV adoption. 
The California Energy Commission estimates that 70% of people need access to at-home charging to enable an all-electric 
fleet.
Installing EV infrastructure in new construction is significantly cost saving compared to retrofitting existing buildings. PCE 
authorized a study to compare new construction and retrofit costs and modeled two different sized multifamily buildings 
and an office building. In each scenario, retrofitting existing buildings to install EV infrastructure costs three to four times 
more than the installation of EV infrastructure at the time of new construction. Retrofitting for EV infrastructure can 
require costly trenching, wiring, and electrical work. Installing EV infrastructure as part of new construction will save the 
building owner significant costs compared to retrofitting in the future.
In the previous code cycle, PCE supported jurisdictions in the adoption of reach codes to advance renewable energy, 
building electrification and EV readiness. PCE provided cost-effectiveness studies, model code language and technical 
support to City staff. This year, PCE is leading the newly formed Bay Area Reach Codes group that includes East Bay Clean 
Energy (EBCE) and Silicon Valley Clean Energy (SVCE) and providing this same type of support to local governments. The 
Bay Area Reach Codes team is focusing on building electrification and EV readiness in new construction and policy options 
for encouraging electrification in existing buildings. 
CURRENT REACH CODES – NEW CONSTRUCTION
In 2019, the City adopted reach codes addressing solar, building electrification and EV readiness. The City’s current reach 
codes will expire on December 31, 2022 and are summarized below.
Solar – Multifamily and Nonresidential 
The 2019 building code requires solar installation on new construction of low-rise residential projects. The City’s reach 
code mandates minimum size solar photovoltaic installations on all other types of new construction. 
Building Electrification – Residential Buildings and Buildings with Office Use
The City’s reach code requires all residential new construction and all new construction of buildings with office use be all-
electric. 
Electric Vehicle Readiness – All Building Types
The City’s reach code requires a higher number of EV charging infrastructure than what is required by the State for new 
construction projects. An EV Capable space contains electrical capacity and raceway. An EV Ready space contains electrical 
capacity, raceway, conduit, and receptacle. Electrical vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) spaces include Level 2 EVSE 
installed. The City’s current reach code for EV readiness varies by building type:

One- and Two- family dwellings and town houses: One EV Ready space

Multifamily buildings: 15% EV Capable spaces

New non-residential buildings: 10% EV Capable spaces, 5% EVSE installed spaces
REACH CODE OPTIONS – NEW CONSTRUCTION
The Bay Area Reach Code team is developing reach code options for building electrification and EV readiness in new 
construction. It is important to note that reach codes for solar and battery storage are no longer necessary since the 2022 
State Energy Code now requires solar and battery storage for all types of new construction. Staff recommends focusing on 
reach code options recommended by the Bay Area Reach Codes team.
7 of 13

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Building Electrification – All Building Types
Currently, the City’s reach code requires specific building types be all-electric, including residential new construction and 
new buildings with office use. Staff recommends expanding this all-electric requirement to the new construction of all 
building types. Granting exemptions for gas stoves for commercial kitchens/restaurants, outdoor fire pits, and different 
types of end-uses was a heavily debated topic during the reach code development process in 2019. The Bay Area Reach 
Code team recommends jurisdictions do not allow for blanket exemptions but instead establish a process and criteria to 
grant exceptions. It is important to minimize exceptions for specific equipment given the availability of electric equipment 
options. Further, the installation of gas infrastructure to service one piece of equipment diminishes the project cost 
savings of not installing gas infrastructure and creates investment in new gas infrastructure that does not align with the 
City’s goal to reduce emissions and phase out natural gas in buildings by 2030. 
Staff recommends the City adopt a reach code requiring all new construction be all-electric, with a defined process to 
evaluate and grant exceptions, as proposed by the Bay Area Reach Codes group.  
Electric Vehicle Readiness – All Building Types
EV readiness can mean having panel capacity and raceway installed so that a branch circuit and receptacle/equipment can 
be installed at a later date or can require the installation of electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE). EV readiness 
terminology is summarized in Table 1. 
Table 1: EV Readiness Definitions
Definition
Level 1 EV Ready
Includes full 110/120 V 20-amp circuit with a 
receptacle or outlet 
Level 2 EV Capable 
Includes panel capacity for 208/240 V 40-amp 
circuit and conduit or raceways
Level 2 EV Ready (low-power)
Includes full 208/240 V 20-amp circuit with a 
receptacle or outlet
Level 2 EV Ready
Includes full 208/240 V 40-amp circuit with a 
receptacle or outlet 
Level 2 EV Charging Space 
(EVCS)
Includes full charging capability with EVSE 
(Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment) installed
The State has continued to increase EV readiness requirements every three years, for the first time the State will require 
the installation of EVSE. Table 2 summarizes the 2019 State Code, the City’s current reach code requirements and the 2022 
State Code requirements.
8 of 13

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Table 2: EV Readiness Requirements
2019 State Code
2019 City Reach Code 
(currently in effect)
2022 State Code
Single Family and 
Two-Family 
Townhomes
One Level 2 EV Capable 
space per dwelling unit
One Level 2 EV Ready 
space per dwelling unit
One Level 2 EV Capable space per 
dwelling unit
Multifamily
10% Level 2 EV Capable 
15% Level 2 EV Capable
5% Level 2 EVCS
25% Level 2 EV Ready (low-power)
10% Level 2 EV Capable 
Total: 40% of spaces
Non Residential
6% Level 2 EV Capable
5% Level 2 EVCS
10% Level 2 EV Capable
Total: 15% of spaces
5% Level 2 EVCS
15% Level 2 EV Capable
Total: 20% of spaces
The City has the opportunity to reach beyond the 2022 State Code requirements. The State offers reach codes options for 
jurisdictions to adopt called “CalGreen tiers” and the Bay Area Reach Codes team provided their own recommendation. 
The different EV Readiness reach code options are summarized in Table 3.
Table 3: EV Readiness Reach Code Options for 2022 Building Code
CalGreen Tier 1
CalGreen Tier 2
Bay Area Reach Codes Model Code
Single Family and 
Two-Family 
Townhomes
None
None
One Level 2 EV Ready per dwelling unit; 
One Level 1 EV Ready space if second space 
provided
Multifamily
10% Level 2 EVCS
35% Level 2 EV Ready 
(low-power)
Total: 45% of spaces
*also applies to hotel 
and motel
15% Level 2 EVCS
40% Level 2 EV Ready 
(low-power)
Total: 55% of spaces
*also applies to hotel and 
motel
40% Level 2 EVCS
60% Level 1 EV Ready
Total: 100% of dwelling units with spaces 
Affordable Housing
15% Level 2 EVCS
25% Level 2 Ready (low-power)
60% Level 1 EV Ready
Total: 100% of dwelling units with spaces
Non Residential
10% Level 2 EVCS
20% Level 2 EV Capable
Total: 30% of spaces
15% Level 2 EVCS
30% Level 2 EV Capable
Total: 45% of spaces
Office Use
20% Level 2 EVCS
30% Level 2 EV Capable
Total: 50% of spaces
All Other Uses
10% Level 2 EVCS
10% Level 2 EV Capable
Total: 20% of spaces
9 of 13

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
For Single Family and Two-Family Townhomes, currently the City’s reach code requires one Level 2 EV Ready space per 
dwelling unit. Staff recommends adoption of the Bay Area Reach Codes Model Code that requires one Level 2 EV Ready 
space per dwelling unit; in addition, one Level 1 EV Ready space would be required if the development includes more than 
one parking space to ensure sufficient charging access. 
For multifamily buildings, the City’s current reach code requires 15% Level 2 EV Capable spaces. CalGreen tier reach code 
options go beyond the state code to require a higher percentage of EV readiness in spaces. CalGreen tiers concentrate the 
availability of chargers in a limited number of spaces. The Bay Area Reach Codes group focuses on ensuring every 
residential unit has access to EV charging and relies on Level 1 outlets, these outlets are the typical standard outlet that 
you see inside your home. According to a California Air Resources Board study, 50% of EV drivers use Level 1 charging. PCE 
assessed EV charging needs for multifamily properties and found that in residential settings, cars are typically parked for 
more than twelve hours. Given the average commute for a Bay Area resident is approximately 25 – 35 miles per day, 
charging needs can often be satisfied with a Level 1 charger, avoiding more expensive electrical capacity upgrades.
EV charging poses some challenges to multifamily property owners as they need to learn to manage EVSE and/or access to 
outlets. Most Level 2 EVSE include energy monitoring and payment capabilities and this technology is just emerging for 
Level 1 outlets. Without this technology, electricity is typically billed to one meter and the property owners will need to 
navigate how to charge tenants for the electricity use related to EV charging. 
Staff recommends the Bay Area Reach Codes reach code option for multifamily buildings to ensure charging is accessible to 
all residential units.
For nonresidential buildings, the City’s current reach code requires 5% Level 2 EVCS and 10% Level 2 EV Capable. The 
CalGreen tier options recommend higher percentage of EV readiness for all uses. The Bay Area Reach Codes option 
provides a recommendation for office use and a recommendation for all other uses. The option for office use requires a 
higher percentage of EV readiness than the option for all other uses. 
Staff recommends adoption of the Bay Area Reach Codes reach code for nonresidential buildings because the policy focuses 
on increasing charging in office buildings, where most charging is likely to occur after at-home charging.
REACH CODE OPTIONS – EXISTING BUILDINGS
The City has a strong history of applying reach codes to new construction, but new construction represents a small fraction 
of the built environment in San Mateo. Decarbonizing existing building stock is key to reach the City’s ambitious climate 
goals but addressing the existing building stock can be challenging. Along with mandates implemented through reach 
codes, staff will prioritize working with partner agencies to provide outreach and education to the community on the 
benefits of building electrification, exploring financing options for converting to electric equipment, and supporting 
workforce training to install electric equipment. 
The Bay Area Reach Codes team emphasizes that a jurisdiction must consider equity to ensure that electrification reach 
codes do not negatively impact underserved communities.  A study by the Greenlining Institute outlines the barriers to 
electrification in Environmental Social Justice (ESJ) communities. Upfront costs to convert to new technology and electric 
equipment is often the primary barrier. In addition, electricity prices are currently higher than natural gas prices so homes 
with electric equipment have higher utility bills.  ESJ communities often face energy insecurity “the inability to pay for 
energy bills without making a significant trade-off such as not paying for other basic needs such as food, medical care, 
transportation or rent.” Someone who faces energy insecurity is not able to prioritize electrification. Further, those who 
are renters lack the choice of choosing to electrify.
While electricity prices are currently higher than natural gas, as more people electrify their homes, those who remain gas 
customers will be challenged with rising gas prices. A sharp increase in gas bills is expected in the future because utilities 
are asking for rate increases to fund necessary safety upgrades to the state’s aging gas infrastructure. According to the 
Greenlining Institute, the ESJ communities who face barriers to electrification will need assistance to move to cleaner, 
electric appliances to help shield them from the rising cost of gas.
10 of 13

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Encouraging or requiring electric conversions make the most economic sense when coupled with specific triggers to be 
more cost effective and less disruptive to the building owner and occupants. The Bay Area Reach Codes group is currently 
analyzing a number of measures to encourage the installation of electric equipment and electrification readiness in 
different building types but has not finalized a list of recommended measures. Staff reviewed preliminary analysis with the 
Bay Area Reach Codes group and identified a list of potential measures for discussion. It is important to note that these are 
mix and match options and that the City can move forward with whichever combination of policies that are determined to 
be optimal:
1)
Electric-readiness (panel capacity) at time of electrical panel upgrade – Residential
This measure requires the reservation of breaker space in the existing or new electric panel to accommodate anticipated 
future electrification of the buildings’ electrical load at the time of electrical panel upgrade or replacement. The measure 
would require dedicated breaker spaces for future electric appliances, including a heat pump water heater, heat pump 
space heater, EV charger, and other end-uses. Electrical capacity is key to future electrification of a building’s systems. By 
requiring the reservation of breaker space when a building owner is already making changes their electrical panel, gas 
equipment can more easily be converted to electric at the end of equipment life. 
2)
Electric-readiness (outlets installed) at time kitchen or laundry room renovations – Single Family Residential
This measure requires the installation of electrical outlets at the time of kitchen or laundry room renovation if a gas 
appliance is installed. This means at least one outlet capable of serving electric equipment is located within six feet of the 
kitchen stove during a kitchen renovation and clothes dryer during a laundry room renovation. This simple requirement 
enables electric equipment to be easily installed at a later date.
3)
Heat pump air conditioning – Residential and Small Commercial
This measure requires the installation of a heat pump air conditioning unit at the time of installation of a new air 
conditioning system or replacement of an existing unit. This measure would apply to residential buildings and for 
commercial buildings with air conditioning units up to 30 tons of air flow. 
Instead of a traditional air conditioning condensing unit, a building owner would need to install a heat pump unit, also 
known as a reverse cycle air conditioning condensing unit. For residential installations, TECH Clean California incentives 
make the heat pump option less expensive than the installation of an air conditioner plus new furnace. Heat pump air 
conditioning units enable electrification of the space heating system. If sized appropriately, the building owner will no 
longer require a gas space heating system after the heat pump installation. 
4)
Heat pump pool heating – Residential
This measure would require the installation of heat pump pool water heating equipment when a new pool is installed at an 
existing residential building. If a pool is installed as part of the construction of a new residential building, the pool is 
already required to use electric heating equipment according to the City’s current building electrification reach code. 
Compared to a traditional gas pool heater, the electric option can cost $800 - $1,300 more. Installation of a heat pump 
pool heater might trigger an electrical panel upgrade depending on the size of the pool, which could increase project costs. 
The City of Santa Monica’s cost effectiveness study found it is cost effective to require this measure in Climate Zone 6, and 
a study including San Mateo’s climate zone is currently underway. 
5)
Heat pump water heating – Single Family Residential
This measure would require the installation of a heat pump water heater (HPHW) at the time of replacement. With 
available incentives, the installation of a heat pump water heater instead of gas equipment would cost $2,500 more or 
higher. 
There are several challenges associated with the conversion of an existing gas fired water heater to a heat pump system. 
Typically, when gas water heaters fail, contractors are able to replace the equipment with a gas water heater within 24 
hours. In order to convert to a heat pump water heater, property owners would need to hire an electrician to install the 
required wiring and potential electrical panel upgrades before installation of the heat pump equipment. This process can 
11 of 13

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
take several days or even weeks depending on the contractor and equipment availability. Building occupants would have 
to live without hot water during the conversion and installation process. StopWaste in Alameda County is currently piloting 
an equipment loan program that provides short term loans of gas water heaters until the heat pump water heater is 
installed. This type of program could help make the conversion to heat pump water heaters at time of failure more 
comfortable for building occupants but is currently not available in San Mateo County.
Another challenge with heat pump water heaters is the typical size of the system. Because the HPWH is somewhat slower 
than a gas fired water heater, manufacturers may recommend replacing a 40-gallon gas fired water heater with a 60- to 
80-gallon HPWH. The increase in physical size might make it more complex to site the new HPWH. Water heaters are often 
located in the garage, but a homeowner might not have sufficient space to replace the system in the garage without 
encroaching on the parking clearance. 
Staff does not currently have a recommendation on electrification reach codes for existing buildings for adoption. Staff is 
awaiting additional cost-effectiveness analysis and draft code language to better understand the impact and 
implementation process for enforcing these measures.  
Next Steps
Reach codes can be adopted at any time, however, it is optimal to adopt a reach code at the beginning of a code cycle to 
maximize the time the policy is in effect.  Staff recommends that new construction reach codes be adopted by the end of 
the year so that the current new construction reach codes for building electrification and EV readiness do not lapse. Since 
there are currently no reach codes pertaining to existing buildings, there is no concern about a potential lapse and 
therefore the timeline can be more flexible if additional time is needed to develop the optimal policy option. Because this 
is the first time the City will consider reach codes that impact existing buildings, there might be a need for additional 
analysis and discussion. If needed, staff recommends separating new construction and existing building reach code efforts 
to ensure new construction reach codes are prioritized for adoption by the end of the year.
Staff seek Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission feedback on the reach code options for new construction and 
existing buildings. Based on Commission feedback, staff can return to the Commission for additional discussion if needed. 
Staff aim to present the Commission’s recommended reach codes for consideration at a City Council Study Session in July 
and an ordinance for adoption by the end of the year.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
12 of 13

--- page 13 ---
From: Martin Wiggins is

Sent: Monday, April 11, 2022 8:59 PM
To: Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
Subject: Comment on 04/13 SIC Agenda Item 2 - Reach Code Amendments

Dear Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission,

Thank you for your time and service, and for taking this comment. My name is Martin Wiggins and | live in Hayward
Park. | want to thank staff for this thoughtful report which properly contextualizes the Reach Codes process as part of
the City, County, and State's broader efforts to combat climate change. The importance of acting now has just been
underscored by the IPCC's latest report, issued on April 4th, which stated, "its now or never" if we are to limit global
warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.

It is with this context that | write to you to urge you to recommend adoption of some sort of existing building reach
codes. Staff properly notes that new construction is only a small fraction of the building stock. And yet, 100% of our
reach codes are focused here - on the jeast impactful portion of our overall city.

Please find a way to cover both existing and new building reach codes by the end of year.

| understand that it is new territory and staff is awaiting further analysis but let's start small (rather than not enacting
anything) and build from there. Option #1 for requiring electrical readiness at time of panel upgrade seems to be about
the least we could do. By triggering this at the time of upgrade, we are piggybacking onto a capital investment that an
owner is already electing to make. Moreover, electrical capacity is the precursor to all other upgrades. Let's at least
enact this much, as we further consider the impacts of other options.

As you look to the future of existing building reach codes, please consider the possibility of linking upgrades to property
sale. You are likely aware that San Mateo already does this with sewer lateral repairs. Why not require one or more of
these options at time of sale (or within 90 days etc)? This reduces the cost burden as it can be rolled into escrow, and is
a natural time to do upgrades; when a house is most likely to be unoccupied.

Thanks very much,
Martin Wiggins

Martin Wiggins

13 of 13
