--- page 1 ---
WASHINGTON STATE
Sedro-Woolley to turn back on its Flock cameras
By VINCE RICHARDSON, Skagit Valley Herald, Mount Vernon, Wash. The Tribune Content Agency
SEDRO-WOOLLEY - The Sedro-Woolley City Council voted Wednesday night to
turn back on the city's Flock Safety Camera System.
Sedro-Woolley Police Chief Dan McIlraith said he expects to have the
automated license plate reader cameras turned back on by June 1.
"I'm looking forward to turning Flock back on and using this as it was intended
and increasing the solvability of crimes," he said. "Again, these are not video
surveillance cameras. They are just still photos of license plates and we do
have to confirm those hits before we take any action … We won't use the
system until we have a reason to do so."
May 8, 2026 7:06 AM

--- page 2 ---
Flock cameras are touted as being able to aid law enforcement in identifying
vehicles associated with suspects, witnesses or victims of crimes.
The cameras record vehicle data, including license plate information as well as
vehicle descriptors such as type, make and color along with other identifiers.
"This is just another tool we can use to solve crimes that otherwise may go
unsolved," McIlraith said.
Sedro-Woolley's seven Flock cameras went live in March 2025 and were
disabled in June 2025 after a public records request was filed for images taken
by the cameras.
A new state law limits images to authorized law enforcement personnel for
valid law enforcement purposes.
Federal agencies are prohibited from accessing Flock camera data, including
for immigration enforcement.
"I know there have been big brother concerns about Flock cameras, but I trust
our city police and I thank our legislators who fixed a lot of the significant
problems," City Councilmember Paul Cocke said.
"And now it can only be shared on certain crimes with law enforcement, which
is really what they were intended for … I support turning them back on."
Though Gov. Bob Ferguson signed the Flock legislation into law on March 30,
McIlraith stated in the days following the signing that he wanted "wanted to
make sure we have everything in place before we turn them on."
That includes further training for officers on the new law.
McIlraith assured the City Council that all cameras are located where allowable
and are away from schools, religious facilities and hospitals.

--- page 3 ---
He said he was comfortable with their placement.
"They (the Legislature) listened to some of our law enforcement concerns as
far as being able to use these for gross misdemeanor and felonies and stolen
vehicles and such, but also put the necessary restrictions in order to alleviate
some issues that popped up," McIlraith said.
Sedro-Woolley signed a two-year contract with Flock for $44,548, however, that
price has been lowered.
"I was able to negotiate with Flock and since it has been turned off for so long,
to get a prorated discount on the time we lost," McIlraith said. "So this year's
bill went down from $22,500 to about $7,100. That's what our bill is this year."
The city of Stanwood turned off its 14 Flock cameras in May 2025 after a public
records request was filed for images made by its cameras.
It turned its cameras back on in April after Ferguson signed the new legislation
into law.
Mount Vernon did not turn off its cameras.
The cities of Sedro-Woolley and Stanwood are asking a state appeals court to
reverse a Skagit County Superior Court ruling that prior to the new law being
signed images taken by the cameras were subject to the state Public Records
act.
The man who requested the images is suing the two cities for not producing
the records.
Copyright 2026 Tribune Content Agency. All Rights Reserved.
Get unlimited digital access
Try 1 month for $1

--- page 4 ---
Part of the McClatchy Media Network
ABOUT
About Us
Site Map
Contact Us
Archives
Connect with us:
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Customer Service
Start a Subscription
Cancel a Subscription
Make a Payment
ADVERTISING
McClatchy Advertising
Place an Ad
Place a Classified Ad
Place an Ad - Celebrations
Place an Obituary
Staffing Solutions
Political | Advocacy Advertising
EXPLORE
Read Today's Edition
Mobile Apps
#ReadLocal
CLAIM OFFER

--- page 5 ---
Newsletters
Puzzles & Games
Horoscopes
COPYRIGHT
COMMENTING POLICY
PRIVACY POLICY
YOUR PRIVACY
CHOICES
TERMS OF SERVICE