--- page 1 ---
WASHINGTON STATE
'Not impressed with the company': Flock cameras
spark debate over privacy, public safety in Chelan
County
By Kalie Worthen, The Wenatchee World, Wash. The Tribune Content Agency
Flock Safety, the $8.4 billion surveillance camera company, and its automatic
license plate readers, or ALPRs, grew out of a series of unsolved home break-
ins. Since its inception in 2017, Flock Safety has become a tool used by almost
5,000 law enforcement agencies nationwide, including four local law
enforcement agencies in Chelan and Douglas counties, and a source of
controversy.
September 21, 2026 8:42 PM

--- page 2 ---
Four, "maybe five," of the 12 Flock cameras placed within Chelan County
municipalities and rural areas since early 2025 have been vandalized,
according to Chelan County Sheriff Mike Morrison at the Cashmere City
Council meeting Sept. 14.
"I hear people's concern. I think they're certainly concerned about the
ramifications of how intrusive this can be. I think we should be cautious and of
course alert. But to just throw it out, would definitely be detrimental,"
Morrison said. "This is not mounted anywhere where you have a right to
privacy anyways."
Morrison acknowledged that Flock Safety is flawed and said he is "not happy
with the company," but maintained it is a "gamechanger" for law enforcement.
Automatic license plate readers are used by law enforcement to assist with
investigations involving AMBER and Silver alerts, stolen vehicles and active
search warrants.
"I did speak with half a dozen people, and the opinion was if you're not doing
anything wrong, what're you worried about?" Cashmere City Councilmember
Jayne Stephenson said. "They felt they were beneficial."
Morrison credited one of the 12 cameras in the county, a Leavenworth-based
ALPR, for the arrest of an Oregon homicide suspect near Lake Wenatchee.
"Our deputies didn't pick up on that, we weren't in that area, we didn't see it."
Morrison referenced a Kittitas County Flock camera that captured a suspect in
a Wenatchee drive-by shooting as an example of ALPR success. He also
credited ALPR cameras with helping track down Zachary Soltis, a 28-year-old
Texas man who used his Toyota Tundra to vandalize Leavenworth's Front
Street Park, also known as Gazebo Park, in 2025.

--- page 3 ---
"As we're talking to the suspect and he's telling us, 'Yeah, I'm turning around to
turn myself in.' (We're like) That's weird, because we're watching you drive
through Moses Lake right now. Doesn't look like you're turning around,"
Morrison said. "Now I'm watching you drive into Idaho and if you think you're
going to drive down to Texas… we are going to return you back. I have you on
video surveillance."
The Chelan County Sheriff's Office is treating its Flock cameras, obtained
through a Washington Auto Theft Prevention grant, as a two-year "pilot
program," Morrison said at Sept. 14's Cashmere City Council meeting.
"I don't like mass surveillance and I believe Flock cameras are mass
surveillance. Any time you're recording license plate numbers and
interconnecting that over a large area over a long time, collecting all that data,
that becomes surveillance in my opinion," Chris Carlson, a Cashmere City
Council member, said.
Diane Potter, a Cashmere resident, emailed Morrison in July expressing
support for law enforcement and appreciation while also requesting the
removal of Flock cameras. Potter also requested that a public hearing be
required before surveillance technology is installed. Her email prompted the
Flock Safety discussion at the council meeting.
Carlson said he has heard from constituents who are uneasy about Flock
cameras and that no one he has spoken with has expressed support for them.
Potter wrote, "Law-abiding residents should not have their daily movements
recorded simply because they drive on public roads."
When a vehicle passes a Flock camera, its "fingerprint" is recorded in the
agency's network. The camera captures the license plate number and
identifying vehicle details, from the color of the vehicle to a bike rack or a Baby
on Board decal.

--- page 4 ---
"Chelan County has several vacation rentals and those individuals are not
(always) there so the fact that we have cameras in those areas, watching who
comes and goes out of certain spots certainly has helped us with burglaries
when they (homeowners) come through later on ‘Hey we had our house
broken in the last couple of weeks,'" Morrison said. "They'll have their ring
cameras and say all we got was this side angle of the car but it looked like it
had a dent in the front corner. Let's type it in and see if we can find anything in
that area with a dent in the front."
Artificial intelligence uses the collected information to create the "fingerprint"
and adds the location and time of the vehicle. The data is then logged into a
database accessible by approved agencies. Vehicle data can be retrieved to
assist with investigations, such as when a vehicle is stolen or traced to an
AMBER Alert.
"We could have found the Decker girls much quicker because we would have
seen him turn onto Icicle Road. Instead, the only camera that was up and
running was the city of Wenatchee that did detect (Travis Decker) leaving the
city. Had ours been up and running… maybe those girls would still be alive."
Morrison also mentioned the Chelan Hills Fire investigation would've had a
more rapid turnaround with ALPR cameras. "We would have had the suspect
in custody a month ago, two months ago. It would've sped up our
investigation."
The Chelan County Sheriff's Office covers about 2,900 square miles and has a
population of about 80,000, with a large concentration of tourism and outdoor
recreation within its jurisdiction. The office has 59 commissioned deputies,
who are spread thin, Morrison said, citing the combined roughly 8 million
visitors Leavenworth and Chelan draw, wildfire assistance assignments and
search-and-rescue operations.
In comparison, the sheriff's office had 68 commissioned deputies serving a
population of about 70,000 in 2008.

--- page 5 ---
"It is more effective to utilize AI and other technology to expand our
capabilities and our ability to get the job done at a more cost effective rate,"
Morrison said. Homeowners associations, commonly known as HOAs, and
small businesses also use the technology, Morrison added. "You can't have a
security guard on duty 24/7 awake. Technology doesn't take days off, doesn't
take rest."
Cashmere City Council member Jeff Johnson noted that cost savings could be
an incentive from the perspective of taxpayer funds if Flock cameras are an
alternative to a deputy, which would be "very expensive."
The Flock camera discussion came after the council approved a roughly $4 rate
increase for Waste Management and a new jail rate for the Chelan County
Regional Jail.
"Anything that has the prospect of potentially lowering costs and creating a
safer community is something that ought to be explored," Johnson said.
Kim Mires, a Wenatchee-based delivery driver, said she climbs into her
delivery truck every morning and willingly allows herself to be tracked
throughout her route so customers can follow their packages. She is also
recorded by an in-cab camera installed by her employer for safety. She drops
packages in front of Ring cameras and has no qualms about that. But the Flock
Safety cameras mounted throughout the two-county Chelan-Douglas area are
different for Mires, who said she feels as if she is being "tracked" even when
she is off the clock.
"I honestly just feel like there is a lack of privacy in the Valley," Mires said. "I
fear for my Hispanic community being targeted."
Carlson questioned where the collected data goes and who controls it. Flock
Safety drew statewide attention to the Wenatchee and East Wenatchee police
departments in October 2025 after a University of Washington article revealed

--- page 6 ---
that the two departments unknowingly shared network access with the federal
government, including U.S. Border Patrol, through a default setting.
"I think Flock has missed the mark on several fronts. I'm not impressed with
the company." Morrison said. "I think the technology is outstanding, excellent,
but I think they've done damage to our relationship with citizens in the state,
and specifically folks in Chelan County."
East Wenatchee City Council tabled a Flock camera "master agreement" Sept.
15 after several local residents raised concerns about the technology.
Gov. Bob Ferguson signed Senate Bill 6002, known as the "Driver Privacy Act,"
into law in March. The law shortens the length of time ALPR data can be stored
from 30 days to 21 days, unless it is being used in an active case.
"As new technology comes out, it's going to have to be curtailed. Just like we're
watching with AI right now. Just like we're watching with autonomous
vehicles," Morrison said. "There was a benefit and positivity to the technology
when it came out but there's going to be some learning curves."
Senate Bill 6002 also prevents ALPR cameras from being mounted in specific
public spaces. Under the law, Washington state does not allow ALPR programs
near hospitals, places of worship, immigration facilities, courts or food banks.
"Washington state is probably one of the most difficult places to do law
enforcement anywhere in the U.S. Even they're (the government) saying this is
lawful," Morrison said. "The law is going to catch up with ALPR. I think we've
done pretty well staying ahead of it. We've been compliant with everything the
state's put forward even before they put it out as a requirement."
Morrison confirmed that the Chelan County Sheriff's Office does not share its
data with the federal government and that commissioned staff who use the
data must have a case number. The software also logs a user's activity to help

--- page 7 ---
identify potential misuse, and the undersheriff is tasked with monitoring
activity.
"We try to be responsible. We don't want to invade privacy. None of these
cameras are mounted in a place where you're deemed to have privacy
anyway," Morrison said. "It's not like it's giving secrets of someone's internet
search history that would be private. You are driving your car down a public
road."
Morrison compared the technology to toll bridge cameras that capture images
of license plates for billing. While both systems take photos of vehicles, toll
system software automatically crops images to display only the license plate,
according to Summer Derrey, spokesperson for the Washington State
Department of Transportation's North Central Region.
Senate Bill 6002 excludes toll cameras, allowing revenue to continue to be
collected to fund, preserve and maintain transportation projects, Derrey said.
"Existing state law is very clear that tolling photographs are to be used
exclusively for toll enforcement. Our contracts with vendors provide language
on the restriction of sharing customer information," Derrey wrote. "WSDOT is
not a law enforcement agency using the images for criminal investigation or
any other law enforcement uses."
Senate Bill 6002 could lead to additional statewide regulations for ALPR
programs, as Morrison anticipates ALPR cameras will be a "major
conversation" during the next legislative session.
"I'm not convinced that we keep this technology yet. I don't think we've had it
up long enough… but yeah, I'd say this is great technology. When I've seen it
running, yeah, I think we got some positive results back," Morrison said. "I'd
like to see it more in action and I have to say one of the biggest deterrents I
have with it is the company itself. I don't like doing business with them."

--- page 8 ---
Part of the McClatchy Media Network
ABOUT
About Us
Site Map
Contact Us
Archives
Connect with us:
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Customer Service
Start a Subscription
Cancel a Subscription
Make a Payment
ADVERTISING
McClatchy Advertising
Place an Ad
Place a Classified Ad
Place an Ad - Celebrations
Place an Obituary
Staffing Solutions
Political | Advocacy Advertising
Copyright 2026 Tribune Content Agency. All Rights Reserved.
Get unlimited digital access
#ReadLocal
Try 1 month for $1
CLAIM OFFER

--- page 9 ---
EXPLORE
Read Today's Edition
Mobile Apps
Newsletters
Puzzles & Games
Horoscopes
COPYRIGHT
COMMENTING POLICY
PRIVACY POLICY
YOUR PRIVACY
CHOICES
TERMS OF SERVICE