--- page 1 ---
CRIME
Pierce County Sheriff’s Office to deactivate its
license-plate reader cameras
By Puneet Bsanti
Updated April 1, 2026 10:13 AM

--- page 2 ---
The Sheriff’s Office in Pierce County will deactivate its Automated License Plate
Reader system following a new law that regulates the use of the technology by
Governor Bob Ferguson signed SB 6002 to regulate license plate readers in Washington. The law limits data retention
and bans cameras near sensitive locations. By TVW

--- page 3 ---
local and state agencies.
The Driver Privacy Act, or Senate Bill 6002, establishes new regulations for the
use of ALPR systems, including limiting the technology’s data collection and
retention for privacy protections of drivers. Gov. Bob Ferguson signed the bill
into law Monday after it was passed in the Legislature.
The Sheriff’s Office said in a news release the continued use of the ALPR
system, or Flock cameras, would place deputies at risk of unintentionally
violating the new state law.
“Among its provisions, the law prohibits the use of license plate readers in
proximity to community locations, including hospitals, schools, and other
protected areas. Violations of these restrictions carry significant legal
consequences, including classification as a Gross Misdemeanor for individual
officers,” according to the release.
The release said there is no available technology or capability that allows the
Sheriff’s Office to ensure the cameras can reliably differentiate between
restricted and permitted locations in real time.
Sheriff Keith Swank said the decision to deactivate the cameras was not made
lightly, according to the release.
“ALPR technology has been instrumental in locating missing persons, including
Silver Alert cases, identifying stolen vehicles, and apprehending dangerous
offenders. Without it, our ability to respond quickly and effectively is
diminished,” the release said.
The law also makes it unlawful for any agency to use the reader for
immigration investigations or enforcement.
“The Pierce County Sheriff’s Office also acknowledges that broader concerns
surrounding privacy and the potential use of such technologies in connection

--- page 4 ---
with federal immigration enforcement, including issues related to Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE), have contributed to the passage of this
legislation. While the intent of the law is to address those concerns, its practical
impact at the local level is the removal of a critical investigative resource,”
according to the Sheriff’s Office news release.
The release ended with the office saying it would continue to explore lawful
and effective alternatives to support their mission.
Swank addressed the Sheriff’s Office’s decision in an X post Tuesday morning.
“These cameras were not used to track people. We used them to get hits on
wanted vehicles. The camera runs plates, and if it is a wanted vehicle, the
deputy is notified. If it is not a wanted vehicle, the information is not even
gathered,” Swank wrote.
Swank wrote the law would hinder the office, citing searching for homicide
suspects or finding missing dementia patients.
“I am not saying this because, ‘I’m mad, and I’m taking my toys home.’ I am not
mad about it. I am just letting you know our solve rate and prosecution rate
will decrease,” he wrote.
This story was originally published March 31, 2026 at 9:55 AM.
Puneet Bsanti is the East Pierce County Reporter for The News Tribune. She started with the newspaper in 2023 as the
breaking news reporter. After she graduated from Washington State University, she was an intern for the Bellingham
Herald. Her work in breaking news was recognized by the Society of Professional Journalists in 2022.
Support my work with a digital subscription
Puneet Bsanti
The News Tribune
(253)-495-2540
Get unlimited digital access
Try 1 month for $1

--- page 5 ---
Part of the McClatchy Media Network
ABOUT
About Us
Site Map
Contact Us
Archives
Connect with us:
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Customer Service
Start a Subscription
Cancel a Subscription
Make a Payment
ADVERTISING
McClatchy Advertising
Place an Ad
Place a Classified Ad
Place an Ad - Celebrations
Place an Obituary
Staffing Solutions
Political | Advocacy Advertising
EXPLORE
Read Today's Edition
Mobile Apps
#ReadLocal
CLAIM OFFER

--- page 6 ---
Newsletters
Puzzles & Games
Horoscopes
COPYRIGHT
COMMENTING POLICY
PRIVACY POLICY
YOUR PRIVACY
CHOICES
TERMS OF SERVICE