--- page 1 ---
WASHINGTON STATE
Flock camera limits, income tax among measures
WA lawmakers passed this year
By Simone Carter
March 13, 2026 5:15 AM

--- page 2 ---
The 2026 Washington legislative session commenced on January 12, with 98 representatives and 49 senators
reconvening in Olympia. This year's 60-day session follows the fiery debates of 2025. Lawmakers began prefiling bills on
December 1, 2025, with the session expected to conclude on March 12, 2026. Gov. Bob Ferguson has until April 4 to act
on legislation. By Liesbeth Powers

--- page 3 ---
After bruising tax fights and a controversy or two, Washington lawmakers
arrived at the domed Capitol building in Olympia Thursday for the last
scheduled day of this year’s session, called Sine Die.
The past 60 days have been action-packed as Democratic legislators raced to
write and pass an income tax on millionaires.
That tax fight commanded both news headlines and much of state lawmakers’
time. Earlier this week a House debate about the proposal lasted more than 24
hours.
Other big bills crossed the finish line, too, including one aimed at imposing
restrictions on automated license plate readers (ALPR), like those run by Flock
Safety.
Senate Bill 6002 by Sen. Yasmin Trudeau, a Tacoma Democrat, creates
regulations for using ALPR systems and limits their use by local and state
agencies. Data generally must be deleted within three weeks, with certain
exceptions.
Many local jurisdictions across Washington state have considered suspending
their ALPR system, including Olympia and Everett.
Proponents of the cameras note that they can help law enforcement solve
crimes, but opponents argue that they’ve also been exploited by stalkers and
domestic abusers. Others don’t like that the system has been used to share data
for federal immigration enforcement purposes.
Trudeau told McClatchy on Thursday that the measure will ensure there’s “real
accountability for people that do not follow the law.”
Key Takeaways
AI-generated summary reviewed by our newsroom.

--- page 4 ---
“And the law now is that the data stays in Washington for the purposes of
solving serious crimes that are listed in the bill,” she said. “I feel like that’s a
really huge win.”
Democratic and Republican leadership sat down with the public affairs
network TVW on Thursday to reflect on the 2026 session.
Gov. Bob Ferguson told TVW that under his priority income-tax legislation,
Senate Bill 6346, thousands of small businesses will no longer pay the state’s
business and occupation tax. Plus, hundreds of thousands of additional
families will be eligible to receive a rebate under the Working Families Tax
Credit, he said.
“It’s not just about more money for our general fund — that’s nice to have —
but it’s about reinvesting back to the people to make sure that life is more
affordable for them here in Washington state,” he said.
SB 6346 is headed to Ferguson’s desk after the Senate agreed Wednesday to
changes made by the House. The bill would impose a 9.9% tax on annual
household earnings above $1 million.
Ferguson insists that he’s against lowering the threshold for the tax, as critics
worry could someday happen.
Senate Minority Leader John Braun told TVW that he thinks the income tax
will inflict long-term damage on the economy and the state’s standard of living.
The Centralia Republican has argued that the tax would drive entrepreneurs
and businesses out of state.
On Thursday Braun gave a nod to lawmakers’ move to roll back a new estate
tax rate passed last year, from 35% to the previous top tier of 20%.
The majority party further sought to distance the state from federal
immigration enforcement this year.

--- page 5 ---
Democrats passed a bill barring law enforcement officers, including those from
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), from donning masks while
interacting with the public. Another measure on Ferguson’s desk prohibits
people from impersonating an officer by wearing clothes, displaying a badge or
using a vehicle bearing the insignia of a law enforcement agency, such as ICE.
As for what’s to come next session, Ferguson said he’ll again push for greater
investment in the state’s ferries. Senate Majority Leader Jamie Pedersen, a
Seattle Democrat, told TVW that lawmakers will likely look to change the
property-tax system to include different rates for residential and commercial
properties and “figure out potentially how to have a significant homestead
exemption for people.”
House Speaker Laurie Jinkins, a Tacoma Democrat, told the network that
lawmakers this year sought to combat “harm” coming from the federal level.
Budget writers noted Wednesday that they’d worked to backfill recent federal
funding cuts.
House Minority Leader Drew Stokesbary of Auburn told TVW that Washington
Democrats often cast blame on Washington, D.C. for tariffs driving up prices in
the state. The Republican argued it’s the state’s policies that have made it less
affordable over time.
One measure awaiting Ferguson’s signature is Sen. John Lovick’s Senate Bill
5974, which establishes stricter eligibility requirements for law enforcement
leaders and allows decertified sheriffs to get booted from office. The Mill Creek
Democrat, who once served as Snohomish County sheriff, has argued the
measure sets clear conduct standards and holds officials to account.
Lovick was also behind a proposal to lower the state’s legal blood alcohol
concentration limit for drivers from 0.08% to 0.05%. He told TVW that much of
the world already operates under that 0.05% BAC level, and he was
disappointed the state didn’t ultimately follow suit this session.

--- page 6 ---
Part of the McClatchy Media Network
ABOUT
About Us
Site Map
Contact Us
Archives
Connect with us:
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Customer Service
Start a Subscription
Cancel a Subscription
Make a Payment
“I take full responsibility for not getting this .05 over the finish line,” he said,
“and I’m going to keep working on it until we get it done.”
This story was originally published March 13, 2026 at 5:15 AM with the headline "Flock camera limits,
income tax among measures WA lawmakers passed this year."
Support my work with a digital subscription
Simone Carter
The Olympian
Get unlimited digital access
#ReadLocal
Try 1 month for $1
CLAIM OFFER

--- page 7 ---
ADVERTISING
McClatchy Advertising
Place an Ad
Place a Classified Ad
Place an Ad - Celebrations
Place an Obituary
Staffing Solutions
Political | Advocacy Advertising
EXPLORE
Read Today's Edition
Mobile Apps
Newsletters
Puzzles & Games
Horoscopes
COPYRIGHT
COMMENTING POLICY
PRIVACY POLICY
YOUR PRIVACY
CHOICES
TERMS OF SERVICE