--- page 1 ---
WASHINGTON STATE
Spokane Sheriff's Office disables automated
license plate reader due to new state regulations
By Mitchell Roland and Mathew Callaghan, The Spokesman-Review, Spokane, Wash. The Tribune
Content Agency
OLYMPIA - The Spokane County Sheriff's Office has temporarily disabled its
automated license plate readers following the recent passage of new state
guidelines on how the technology can be used.
The legislation, which Gov. Bob Ferguson signed earlier this week, allows the
cameras to be used to search for stolen vehicles, to find missing or endangered
people, and to locate those with felony warrants or vehicles connected to the
investigation of a felony. The cameras can also be used for parking
Updated April 3, 2026 8:20 AM

--- page 2 ---
enforcement, car tolling and for real-time traffic information by transportation
agencies.
The changes come after reports that the data from the state's license plate
readers could be accessed by federal immigration agents. There were other
worries regarding widespread surveillance.
Sheriff John Nowels this week said he believed that although "some in the
Legislature had good intentions," it appears "they did not completely
understand ALPR technology, how effective it is, or the many ways it is used
and not used."
There are 70 cameras in fixed locations, 18 mobile ALPRs, and between six and
10 cameras mounted on wheels and mobile radar trailers across the greater
Spokane area. All of these cameras are deactivated for the time being, Nowels
said. He said there's a high chance that the mobile license plate readers will not
be used again because of how difficult it is to make sure they're not recording
in "restricted areas."
Such areas include churches, schools, immigration courts, some medical
clinics, food banks and other sites. Nowels, however, said the specifics are not
well-defined in the bill.
"We might have a camera that is within two blocks of a school, but is that in the
vicinity?" Nowels said. "We don't know. So this is all going to be about
processes and making sure that we're comfortable with where we put them."
Nowels said not everything in the legislation is bad, but that the sheriff's
department must "make amends with some of legislators in the future and try
to get some of these hurdles fixed."
"These imposed restrictions have made it nearly impossible for law
enforcement agencies across the State of Washington to continue using ALPR
systems as currently designed and implemented, and that is unacceptable,"

--- page 3 ---
Nowels said in a statement. "I will continue to work with legislators and other
law enforcement organizations to help find a reasonable solution to the
unintended consequences that I believe make our community less safe."
Prior to the signing of this bill, for example, Nowels said his agency could run
searches against a database generated from information stored in the National
Crime Information Center. But this new legislation specifically prohibits the
sheriff's office from using the NCIC to do any searches.
The legislation included an emergency clause, which means it took effect
immediately upon the governor's signature.
In recent days, several other law enforcement agencies across the state have
turned off the license plate readers.
The Pierce County Sheriff's Office announced Monday it had suspended use of
the technology, which it said "diminished" its ability to quickly and effectively
respond to ongoing situations. The Richland Police Department also stopped
use of the technology, citing the legislation Ferguson signed.
As he signed the legislation on Monday, Ferguson said the bill "strikes a
balance" by "allowing use of this tool while safeguarding the sensitive
information it generates."
The bill was cosponsored by state Sen. Jeff Holy, R-Spokane, a former Spokane
Police detective who said during a January committee hearing the legislation
wasn't what he would have drafted. But following "a bit of talking" with State
Sen. Yasmin Trudeau, D-Tacoma, who sponsored the legislation, he became
convinced it's not a partisan or legal issue.
"This is a 'being a private citizen in the state of Washington issue,' " Holy said.
"Are we seriously going to argue that people don't have a reasonable
expectation of privacy when it comes to every single movement being tracked?
Especially when it concerns what time you drop your kids off at school? When

--- page 4 ---
Part of the McClatchy Media Network
ABOUT
About Us
Site Map
Contact Us
Archives
Connect with us:
SUBSCRIPTIONS
and where you attend religious services? Which kind of doctor you're going to
visit? It struck me."
During his testimony, Holy said the bill "doesn't do anything other than restate
the Keep Washington Working Act," the state law that limits local agencies'
cooperation with federal immigration enforcement.
"So it doesn't do any more damage, any less," Holy said. "It just leaves things as
they are. I'm not a big proponent of that, but this bill does not enhance or
degrade that. It just is what it is."
Copyright 2026 Tribune Content Agency. All Rights Reserved.
This story was originally published April 2, 2026 at 11:41 PM.
Get unlimited digital access
#ReadLocal
Try 1 month for $1
CLAIM OFFER

--- page 5 ---
Customer Service
Start a Subscription
Cancel a Subscription
Make a Payment
ADVERTISING
McClatchy Advertising
Place an Ad
Place a Classified Ad
Place an Ad - Celebrations
Place an Obituary
Staffing Solutions
Political | Advocacy Advertising
EXPLORE
Read Today's Edition
Mobile Apps
Newsletters
Puzzles & Games
Horoscopes
COPYRIGHT
COMMENTING POLICY
PRIVACY POLICY
YOUR PRIVACY
CHOICES
TERMS OF SERVICE