Washington Senate moves to limit use of ALPR camera data | Tacoma News Tribune Read today's Edition 57°F News Restaurants State Seahawks Sports Games Obituaries Finance Classifieds Best of Pierce Co. Home Customer Service About Us Archives Cancel Subscription Contact Us Customer Service Subscribe Advertise Contact McClatchy Advertising Stay Connected Mobile Apps & eReaders Newsletters Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Read today's Edition Best of Pierce County News Crime Government & Politics Local News The Peninsula Gateway The Puyallup Herald Databases Military Traffic Washington State News National News Real Estate Weather News Personal Finance Product Recalls Sports High School Seahawks FIFA World Cup Entertainment & Living TNT Diner Home & Garden Arts & Culture Comics Puzzles & Games Horoscopes All Entertainment Opinion Opinion Submit a Letter to the Editor Obituaries View Obituaries Place an Obituary Video Featured Reality Check Uniquely Puyallup Herald Gateway Best of Pierce Co. Shopping/Reviews Product Reviews Health and Wellness Software and Business Shopping Deals & Offers Amazon Prime Press Releases Sponsored Content Paid Content by BrandPoint Sponsored Articles Family Features Classifieds Place a Classified Ad Post a Job Browse Classifieds Place an Ad - Celebrations Search Jobs Search Legal Notices Advertising Place an Ad Staffing Solutions Political | Advocacy Advertising Washington State Immigration and privacy limits on license plate cameras pass WA Senate By Simone Carter Updated February 9, 2026 12:38 PM COPY LINK Olympia Interim Police Chief Shelby Parker recommended the suspension of the Flock camera system after community members voiced concerns about privacy and immigration enforcement. She said the system has assisted in dozens of cases since last year. By City of Olympia Key Takeaways AI-generated summary reviewed by our newsroom. Read our AI Policy. Senate passed SB 6002 to limit ALPR data collection and retention. Amended version sets ALPR retention at 21 days, up from the original 72 hours. Bill bars immigration enforcement, protest tracking, and use near sensitive sites. Washington state is one step closer to limiting the use of automatic license plate reader (ALPR) cameras. ALPR technology from companies including Flock Safety gathers data and images for use by government agencies. Many law enforcement entities, for instance, have leaned on the cameras for help solving crimes . Senate Bill 6002 by state Sen. Yasmin Trudeau, a Tacoma Democrat, passed Feb. 4 on a 40-9 vote; only Republicans voted against the measure. There are currently no laws in the state regulating the readers’ use. Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle back the bill for its personal privacy-protection aims. Trudeau told her Senate colleagues on Feb. 4 that she comes from a community with “heightened concerns about surveillance technology.” She said she views the bill as a way to ensure privacy is protected while the state meets expectations of accountability and transparency. “For me right now, without this bill, anybody can access that information,” Trudeau said Feb. 4 on the Senate floor. “It is literally the wild, wild west when it comes to data protection.” Many Democrats rallied behind the bill because it prohibits immigration enforcement from using ALPR data, while some Republicans also view it as a necessary step to prevent government overreach. Multiple Washington cities have rolled back the use of Flock cameras in recent months, including Olympia and Redmond . Trudeau praised her co-sponsor, Republican Sen. Jeff Holy of Cheney, for his willingness to work across the political divide. She noted that the former detective took some heat from conservatives over his support. SB 6002 would limit the length of time that ALPR data can be preserved. Although the original bill set a cap of 72 hours, the measure was later amended to extend that time frame to 21 days after senators weighed input from law enforcement agencies, and there’s an exception for when such data is needed for evidence. Republican Sen. Leonard Christian of Spokane Valley explained on the Senate floor that police have used cameras to track down robbery suspects later rather than engaging in a dangerous pursuit. He also disagreed that residents have a reasonable expectation of privacy when driving on public streets. Critics of the technology have noted that ALPR has been harnessed to stalk ex-partners , and a police department in Texas last year tapped Washington state ALPR data as it conducted a nationwide hunt for a woman who’d had an abortion , a Feb. 4 news release from the Senate Democratic Caucus said. Eight or more Washington law enforcement agencies seem to have allowed their reader networks to be shared with U.S. Border Patrol in 2025, per research conducted by the University of Washington’s Center for Human Rights. The bill would also bar such cameras from being used to track protests and other protected activities, as well as their use near food banks, schools, courts or places of worship. Holy put a rhetorical question to his colleagues. “Is anyone in this body who is seriously going to argue we do not have a reasonable expectation of privacy when it comes to every single movement being tracked — especially when it concerns what time you drop your kids out of school, where you attend religious services, what kind of doctor you visit?” he said ahead of the Senate vote. The Washington state House of Representatives will now consider the legislation. March 12 marks the final day of the 2026 session. This story was originally published February 5, 2026 at 5:00 AM with the headline "Immigration and privacy limits on license plate cameras pass WA Senate." Related Stories from Tacoma News Tribune Crime Eastern WA Flock cameras were searched after false abortion claim February 4, 2026 12:37 PM Simone Carter The Olympian Support my work with a digital subscription Get unlimited digital access #ReadLocal Try 1 month for $1 CLAIM OFFER Part of the McClatchy Media Network About About Us Site Map Contact Us Archives Connect with us: Subscriptions Customer Service Start a Subscription Cancel a Subscription Make a Payment Advertising McClatchy Advertising Place an Ad Place a Classified Ad Place an Ad - Celebrations Place an Obituary Staffing Solutions Political | Advocacy Advertising Explore Read Today's Edition Mobile Apps Newsletters Puzzles & Games Horoscopes Copyright Commenting Policy Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Terms of Service