Pierce County deactivates license plate reader cameras usage | Tacoma News Tribune Read today's Edition 58°F News Restaurants State Seahawks Sports Games Obituaries Finance Classifieds Best of Pierce Co. Home Customer Service About Us Archives Cancel Subscription Contact Us Customer Service Subscribe Advertise Contact McClatchy Advertising Stay Connected Mobile Apps & eReaders Newsletters Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Read today's Edition Best of Pierce County News Crime Government & Politics Local News The Peninsula Gateway The Puyallup Herald Databases Military Traffic Washington State News National News Real Estate Weather News Personal Finance Product Recalls Sports High School Seahawks FIFA World Cup Entertainment & Living TNT Diner Home & Garden Arts & Culture Comics Puzzles & Games Horoscopes All Entertainment Opinion Opinion Submit a Letter to the Editor Obituaries View Obituaries Place an Obituary Video Featured Reality Check Uniquely Puyallup Herald Gateway Best of Pierce Co. Shopping/Reviews Product Reviews Health and Wellness Software and Business Shopping Deals & Offers Amazon Prime Press Releases Sponsored Content Paid Content by BrandPoint Sponsored Articles Family Features Classifieds Place a Classified Ad Post a Job Browse Classifieds Place an Ad - Celebrations Search Jobs Search Legal Notices Advertising Place an Ad Staffing Solutions Political | Advocacy Advertising Crime Pierce County Sheriff’s Office to deactivate its license-plate reader cameras By Puneet Bsanti Updated April 1, 2026 10:13 AM COPY LINK Governor Bob Ferguson signed SB 6002 to regulate license plate readers in Washington. The law limits data retention and bans cameras near sensitive locations. By TVW The Sheriff’s Office in Pierce County will deactivate its Automated License Plate Reader system following a new law that regulates the use of the technology by local and state agencies. The Driver Privacy Act, or Senate Bill 6002, establishes new regulations for the use of ALPR systems, including limiting the technology’s data collection and retention for privacy protections of drivers. Gov. Bob Ferguson signed the bill into law Monday after it was passed in the Legislature. The Sheriff’s Office said in a news release the continued use of the ALPR system, or Flock cameras, would place deputies at risk of unintentionally violating the new state law. “Among its provisions, the law prohibits the use of license plate readers in proximity to community locations, including hospitals, schools, and other protected areas. Violations of these restrictions carry significant legal consequences, including classification as a Gross Misdemeanor for individual officers,” according to the release. The release said there is no available technology or capability that allows the Sheriff’s Office to ensure the cameras can reliably differentiate between restricted and permitted locations in real time. Sheriff Keith Swank said the decision to deactivate the cameras was not made lightly, according to the release. “ALPR technology has been instrumental in locating missing persons, including Silver Alert cases, identifying stolen vehicles, and apprehending dangerous offenders. Without it, our ability to respond quickly and effectively is diminished,” the release said. The law also makes it unlawful for any agency to use the reader for immigration investigations or enforcement. “The Pierce County Sheriff’s Office also acknowledges that broader concerns surrounding privacy and the potential use of such technologies in connection with federal immigration enforcement, including issues related to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), have contributed to the passage of this legislation. While the intent of the law is to address those concerns, its practical impact at the local level is the removal of a critical investigative resource,” according to the Sheriff’s Office news release. The release ended with the office saying it would continue to explore lawful and effective alternatives to support their mission. Swank addressed the Sheriff’s Office’s decision in an X post Tuesday morning. “These cameras were not used to track people. We used them to get hits on wanted vehicles. The camera runs plates, and if it is a wanted vehicle, the deputy is notified. If it is not a wanted vehicle, the information is not even gathered,” Swank wrote. Swank wrote the law would hinder the office, citing searching for homicide suspects or finding missing dementia patients. “I am not saying this because, ‘I’m mad, and I’m taking my toys home.’ I am not mad about it. I am just letting you know our solve rate and prosecution rate will decrease,” he wrote. This story was originally published March 31, 2026 at 9:55 AM . Puneet Bsanti The News Tribune (253)-495-2540 Puneet Bsanti is the East Pierce County Reporter for The News Tribune. She started with the newspaper in 2023 as the breaking news reporter. After she graduated from Washington State University, she was an intern for the Bellingham Herald. Her work in breaking news was recognized by the Society of Professional Journalists in 2022. Support my work with a digital subscription Get unlimited digital access #ReadLocal Try 1 month for $1 CLAIM OFFER Part of the McClatchy Media Network About About Us Site Map Contact Us Archives Connect with us: Subscriptions Customer Service Start a Subscription Cancel a Subscription Make a Payment Advertising McClatchy Advertising Place an Ad Place a Classified Ad Place an Ad - Celebrations Place an Obituary Staffing Solutions Political | Advocacy Advertising Explore Read Today's Edition Mobile Apps Newsletters Puzzles & Games Horoscopes Copyright Commenting Policy Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Terms of Service