source: packet.pdf
sha256: 5f8ecf428cfa3448eeb86039187145d0c1445c42be90ea6548589366f082d721
pages: 208
ocr_pages: 5
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission 
May 23, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Margaret Williams, Chair
John Ebneter, Vice Chair
Adam Nugent
Seema Patel
Martin Wiggins
AGENDA
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE GOVERNOR’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS
WHICH SUSPEND CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF THE BROWN ACT.
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: May 23, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 881 5838 4192      Passcode: 153994
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
1.
Continued Item from May 9, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting: Appeal of a Second-Story Addition to an
Existing Single-Family Residence at 329 Greenfield Avenue (PA-2022-051)
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal of the Zoning Administrator's decision to approve the Single-Family
Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for a 566 square-foot second-story addition to a one-story single-family
residence at 329 Greenfield Avenue, based on the findings and subject to the conditions of approval.

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: Categorically exempt from further review pursuant to Section 15301(e).
2.
Allow for Additional Office Space in lieu of Retail at the North Block of Hillsdale Shopping Center at 60 31st
Avenue (PA-2022-022)
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification for a property located at 60
31st Avenue to enable 37,611 square-feet of retail space to be used for either retail or office uses at an existing
commercial building (North Block) and adopt an Addendum to a Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess the
environmental impacts of the project, based on the findings and subject to the conditions of approval. 
CEQA: Addendum to the adopted Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration pursuant to Section 15164,
with no new significant environmental effects identified.
STUDY SESSION
3.
Informational Item - 2023-2031 Housing Element Schedule
Receive information on the anticipated schedule to update the City’s Housing Element.
CEQA: Not a project pursuant to Section 15378(b)(5).
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7372-01
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 23, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Appeal of a Second-Story Addition to an Existing Single-Family Residence at 329 Greenfield Avenue (PA-2022-051)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal of the Zoning Administrator's decision to approve the Single-Family Dwelling Design 
Review (SFDDR) for a 566 square-foot second-story addition to a one-story single-family residence at 329 Greenfield 
Avenue, based on the findings and subject to the conditions of approval included in Attachment 1.
BACKGROUND:
On July 21, 2022, Jessica Sin of JSD Architecture + Design (Applicant), submitted Planning Application (PA) PA-2022-051 for 
a new second-story addition to an existing one-story single-family residence, and worked with the City’s Development 
Review Board to address code requirements and consistency with design guidelines for the proposed project. Following a 
duly noticed public review period, the Zoning Administrator approved the proposed project on March 2, 2023 (Attachment 
2). On March 11, 2023, Mr. Dennis Lee (Appellant), a neighboring resident, filed an appeal of the Zoning Administrator 
decision, citing concerns related to privacy impacts from the proposed second-story windows. The appeal form is included 
as Attachment 3. San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Section 27.08.090 authorizes the Planning Commission to take action 
on an appeal of a Zoning Administrator decision. This staff report provides a summary of the project, the issues raised in 
the appeal, and a discussion of how the project substantially complies with the Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines, 
Zoning Code requirements, and applicable standards for purposes of approving the project.  
Project Description
The project site is located at 329 Greenfield Avenue, just to the east of the intersection with 42nd Avenue, in the Sugarloaf 
Neighborhood of San Mateo. The site is zoned R1-C (One Family Dwellings) and has a parcel area of 5,268 square feet. A 
location map showing the project site and its vicinity is included as Attachment 4. 
The project is a two-story addition to an existing 1,680 square-foot one-story residence. The addition includes a new 566 
square-foot second story and a 344 square-foot addition on the first story at the front of the house. A large Coast Live Oak 
tree located in the rear yard was approved for removal by the Department of Parks and Recreation on July 21, 2022, due 
to decay throughout the main trunk (Permit # HT-2022-001393). Project plans showing the proposed site plan, floor plans, 
elevations and landscape improvements are included in Attachment 5. 
Zoning Code and Design Review
The project is subject to the requirements of SMMC Chapter 27.18 for (R1 Districts – One-Family Dwellings), which 
includes development standards for floor area ratio (FAR), building height, daylight plane, and setbacks. The overall 
proposed floor area of 2,550 square feet is within the maximum allowable FAR of 2,634 square feet for the property. The 
project proposes an overall building height of 22 feet, 10 ¾ inches measured to roof peak, and 18 feet, 9 ½ inches

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
measured to the highest plate-line, both of which are measured from existing grade. These measurements are within the 
district’s height limits of 32 feet to roof peak and 24 feet to building plate line. The project’s compliance with all applicable 
Zoning Code requirements is summarized in the Project Data Sheet (Attachment 6). 
The proposed construction of a second-story addition requires a Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) in 
accordance with SMMC 27.08.032. This review includes evaluating the project for consistency with the Single-Family 
Design Guidelines (Design Guidelines). Staff found the project to be in substantial conformance with the Design Guidelines 
because it maintains the existing exterior finishes and incorporates second-story setbacks that provide a building form and 
scale that are consistent with the existing residences in the surrounding neighborhood. Additional details about the 
project’s conformance with the Design Guidelines are provided in the Resolution (Attachment 1).  
APPEAL:
An appeal was filed by Dennis Lee, a neighboring resident at 340 Midvale Avenue, located to the rear of the project site. As 
noted in the Appeal Form, the appeal is focused on two areas of concern with respect to privacy: 1) privacy impacts caused 
by the project’s second story rear windows, and 2) frosting of the stairway landing window. Staff reviewed the Appellant’s 
concerns and the project in accordance with the Design Guidelines and made the following findings with regard to 
consistency with the Design Guidelines:
1.
Privacy Impacts: The Appellant expressed concerns that the second story rear windows will overlook into their rear 
yard and residence’s interior and that the solutions proposed by the Applicant, including redesigning the floor plan to 
limit living spaces at the rear, frosting all of the five second-story rear windows, and planting of privacy hedges, do not 
adequately address this concern. The Design Guidelines provide guidance to respect the privacy of adjacent neighbors, 
which include:
•
Arrange and offset windows from neighboring windows to maximize privacy;
•
Arrange the proposed floor plan to maximize neighboring privacy;
•
Utilize high and clerestory windows;
•
Utilize landscaping or obscure glass; and
•
Acknowledge that privacy impacts are greater when close and reduce with distance.
As shown in the project plans, the Applicant proposes a total of five second story, rear-facing windows. While these 
windows are approximately aligned with the Appellant’s rear windows, the proposed windows are located more than 
50 feet from the rear windows of the Appellant’s residence. Consistent with the Guidelines, staff’s interpretation is 
that this distance reduces privacy impacts. To further reduce privacy impacts, the Applicant has also agreed to frosting 
all five of the second-story rear windows, which obscure the applicant’s view to the rear. The Appellant expressed 
concern that privacy impacts will still occur if the subject windows are open; however, the subject windows are 
considered passive in use since they serve a stairway landing, hallway, and bathroom and not common living areas 
(living, kitchen, and dining) where casual viewing is more likely to occur. 
In addition to the architectural solutions proposed above, the applicant has agreed to planting a privacy hedges along 
the existing six-foot tall fence on the rear property line to further screen views toward the Appellant’s residence. 
Lastly, the Appellant raises a concern that the height of the windows increased to four feet since the project’s 
neighborhood meeting and that the window heights should be reduced. Staff evaluated the design of these windows 
and found that they substantially comply with the Guidelines regarding privacy and window proportions and rhythm.
2.
Stairway Landing Windows: The Appellant also expressed a specific request for correction in the Zoning Administrator 
Decision letter regarding frosting treatment for the stairway landing window. The Zoning Administrator Decision Letter 
dated March 2, 2023 (Attachment 2) noted in error that one of the five windows (specifically the stairway landing 
window) would not be frosted. This has been revised in the Resolution (Attachment 1) given that the project plans 
(Attachment 5) show frosting treatment for all five second-story rear windows including the stairway landing window. 
A Condition of Approval requiring that construction of the project, if approved, to substantially conform with the 
approved plans (Condition No. 1) has also been added.

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
As discussed above and in the Resolution (Attachment 1), the project is in substantial conformance with the Design 
Guidelines. Therefore, staff recommends that the Planning Commission find that the project meets all applicable policies 
and regulations, deny the appeal and approve the two-story addition at 329 Greenfield Avenue. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Staff has determined that the project is categorically exempt from further review under the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) under Class 1 Section 15301(e) Additions to Existing Structures in that the project will not result in an 
increase of more than 10,000 square-feet, is in an area where all public services and facilities are available to allow for 
maximum development permissible in the General plan, and is not located in an environmentally sensitive area.  
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Staff received public comments from the Appellant during the initial project review and public comment period, which are 
included as Attachment 7. The primary concern raised was privacy impacts caused by the project’s second story rear 
windows. The applicant worked to address neighbor’s concerns through floor plan design and landscaping revisions. All 
revisions were completed prior to issuing the Zoning Administrator decision to conditionally approve the project. 
Additional public comments received following the publishing of this agenda report will be forwarded to the Planning 
Commission for review and consideration at the Public Hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Public Meeting Portal 
as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements in Chapter 
27.08.050, this hearing was noticed to the following parties ten days in advance of the Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 500 feet of the project site; 
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in city-wide planning projects; 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and, 
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution with Findings and Conditions of Approval
Att 2 – Zoning Administrator Decision Letter
Att 3 – Appeal Form to the Planning Commission
Att 4 – Location Map
Att 5 – Project Plans
Att 6 – Project Data Sheet 
Att 7 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Kenneth Chou, Assistant Planner
kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7224

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
RESOLUTION DENYING THE APPEAL OF A ZONING ADMISTRATOR DECISION AND UPHOLDING THE 
APPROVAL OF PLANNING APPLICATION PA-2022-051 FOR A SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DESIGN 
REVIEW AT 329 GREENFIELD AVENUE (APN 042-214-030).
(PA-2022-051, 329 GREENFIELD AVENUE SFDDR)
WHEREAS, Jessica Sin of JSD Architecture + Design (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) 
submitted Planning Application PA-2022-051 for a Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) to 
construct a new 566 square-foot, second-story addition, and a 344 square-foot, one-story addition to an 
existing one-story single-family residence, located at 329 Greenfield Avenue, APN 042-214-030 
(collectively referred to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and,
WHEREAS, the Zoning Administrator found that the Project is categorically exempt from California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) under Section 15301(e); and
 
WHEREAS, the Zoning Administrator found that the Project is consistent with the applicable 
policies of the General Plan and other applicable codes and policies; and
WHEREAS, the Zoning Administrator approved the Project on March 2, 2023, following a duly 
noticed public review period; and 
WHEREAS, Dennis Lee (herein referred to as the “Appellant”) filed an Appeal of the decision by 
the Zoning Administrator to approve the Project (Planning Application PA-2022-051) on March 11, 2023; 
and
WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.08.090 authorizes the 
Planning Commission to take action on the Appeal of a Zoning Administrator decision; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to grant the continuance of the 
Appeal on May 9, 2023, duly noticed, at which all public comments were considered. 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider the Appeal on May 23, 
2023, duly noticed, at which all public comments were considered.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, DOES HEREBY DENY THE APPEAL AND UPHOLD THE DECISION BY THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 
TO APPROVE PLANNING APPLICATION PA-2022-051 AT 329 GREENFIELD AVENUE, APN 042-214-030; 
BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND THE CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED 
IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION:
1.
The Project will not have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore categorically

--- page 7 ---
exempt from the provisions of CEQA under Section 15301(e).
2.
The Single-Family Dwelling Design Review, pursuant to SMMC Section 27.08.032, and associated 
Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a) The structures, site plan, and landscaping are consistent with the adopted R1 Single 
Family Dwelling Design Guidelines in that:
i.
The proposed addition is well-integrated with the existing architectural 
character of the neighborhood. The existing surrounding neighborhood consists 
of mainly ranch style architecture. The proposed addition will also maintain the 
existing architectural style of the house, which is best characterized as ranch 
style architecture.
ii.
The proposed addition is located away from the edges of the property, keeping 
volumes away from the property line. The proposed second-story addition has a 
front setback of 25 feet and 9 ½ inches, which reduces the apparent mass along 
the front façade of the residence. The character and scale of the addition are 
also compatible with other neighboring house, which include both one and two-
story residences. 
iii.
The proposed addition provides second story stepbacks on all sides to respect 
the privacy of adjacent neighbors. Second story windows facing the rear 
property line have a rear yard setback of 25 feet and are located more than 50 
feet from the rear windows of the adjacent residence to the rear. The proposed 
second story rear windows will be obscured for privacy. In addition, privacy 
landscape hedges approximately 15 feet in height at maturity with a growth 
rate ranging from one to three feet per year are proposed along the rear fence 
for privacy screening. 
iv.
The proposed exterior material palette will include stucco, which is continued 
from the existing residence design; high quality, dark matte standing seam 
metal roofing; aluminum clad windows; and smooth limestone for the arch 
porch trims which altogether create a harmonious design. 
b)
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the 
City in that the proposed residence is designed in accordance with the San Mateo 
Zoning Code and adheres to the maximum floor area ratio, minimum setback, and 
maximum building height. The proposed residence is in a one-family dwelling zoning 
district (R1-C) which allows for a maximum floor area of 0.50 for parcels up to 6,000 
square-feet plus 0.20 for any parcel area over 6,000 square-feet. The maximum height 
is 24 feet to the plate line and 32 feet to the roof peak. The daylight plane requirement 
is 12 feet from grade along the side property lines projecting into the lot at a 45-degree 
angle. The proposed residence is in conformance with the maximum allowable floor 
area ratio, minimum setbacks, maximum height, and daylight plane requirement.

--- page 8 ---
c)
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the 
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in 
that the proposed project is designed in a manner that is sensitive and compatible with 
the surrounding neighborhood. 
d)
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any 
violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist 
on the site in that the proposed dwelling does not exceed the height limitation, 
parking, or daylight plane requirements for the site and will be constructed in 
conformance with the Uniform Building Code. 
e)
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that it will be constructed in accordance with the City's 
Security ordinance.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
AS FOLLOWS:
1.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use Element policies of the City’s 
General Plan. 
a)
In accordance with Policy LU 1.9, which encourages the preservation of single-family 
areas and limiting new development to low-density residential uses, the proposed 
Project maintains the single-family use as delineated on the Land Use Map by 
proposing an addition to an existing single-family residence.
b)
In accordance with Policy LU 1.9a, which encourages the livability of San Mateo 
neighborhoods by reviewing Single-Family Dwelling Design Review planning 
applications for compatibility with the City’s Single-Family Design Guidelines, the 
Project has been evaluated for compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood and 
incorporates guidance from the City’s Single-Family Design Guidelines by stepping 
back the second-story to reduce the overall scale and massing that is similar to 
surrounding residences. The Project includes a large covered front porch to create a 
human scaled appearance and helps further compatibility with the neighborhood and 
residences. 
2.
The Project conforms to Policy UD 2.12 of the Urban Design Element of the City’s General 
Plan, which encourages single-family dwellings to substantially conform to the City’s Single-
Family Design Guidelines and preserve the neighborhood scale, materials, architectural style, 
privacy, and views. The Project has been evaluated to conform with the City’s Design 
Guidelines and preserves and enhances the neighborhood through maintaining similar 
building scale as existing residences and common materials such as stucco finish and high-

--- page 9 ---
quality materials such as dark matte standing seam metal roof, aluminum clad windows, and 
smooth limestone finishes.

--- page 10 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2022-051, 329 GREENFIELD AVE., SFDDR
329 GREENFIELD AVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94403-5011
 PARCEL # 042214030
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON _________.
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or his/her designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)
2 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING)
3 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
4 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING) 
5 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land 
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to:

--- page 11 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 2 of 12
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING)
6 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, signed, 
and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and integrate 
recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the Building Official 
or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and signed by the 
Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications substantially conform 
to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the satisfaction of the Building Official 
or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
Public Works Department (PA)
7 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The project applicant shall 
provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with Bay Area 
Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a Clean Bay Best 
Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution from Construction-Related 
Activities.  (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE.
Building Division (PA)
8 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to the 
review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San Mateo 
CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided by 
Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING)
9 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also be 
included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping forms are 
located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required landscape 
documentation package with building permit application subject to the review and 
satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee.  (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)

--- page 12 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 3 of 12
10 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE)
11 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire systems 
(including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in conjunction 
with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. The plans are subject 
to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE) 
Public Works Department (PA)
12 SEWER LATERAL INSPECTION –  As required by Municipal Code Section 7.38.432, the 
applicant shall hire a licensed plumber or contractor to perform a sewer lateral inspection 
and complete a Sewer Lateral Inspection Form (Form) to be submitted to the Director of 
Public Works or designee, unless the project is exempt per Municipal Code Section 
7.38.432(c)(2). The video inspection shall be completed prior to building permit issuance. 
The Form shall be reviewed by the Department of Public Works. If the Form indicates a 
failed inspection, the repair and/or replacement of the sewer lateral shall appear on the 
building permit plans for the superstructure prior to building permit issuance. In addition, if 
the Form indicates a failed inspection, the applicant shall repair and/or replace the sewer 
lateral, with all required permits, and provide an updated Form with a passing inspection, 
prior to occupancy. (PUBLIC WORKS)
13 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show the 
installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, electric power, 
and other communications lines underground to the building in accordance with City of San 
Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and switch gear cabinets shall be placed on 
private property or within a utility easement.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
14 UTILITIES – It is required that the project underground any new or upgraded service lines 
serving the site, including but not limited to CTV and Electrical line.   No overhead 
connection is allowed.
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground electrical, 
gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables including the size, 
location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility service stubs and meters and 
placements or arrangements of junction structures.
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated 
boxes and lids.

--- page 13 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 4 of 12
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the project 
frontage by potholing. Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an encroachment 
permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval. Developer shall provide the 
pothole results to the Director of Public Works or designee or designee prior to final design. 
Any utility conflicts shall be the responsibility of the developer to rectify. (PUBLIC WORKS)
15 WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE – A wastewater capacity charge, as established by San 
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.065, is imposed on all new development to recover a 
proportionate share of costs for existing and future wastewater system facilities and assets 
from new or expanded connections to City wastewater systems. The applicable wastewater 
capacity charge is determined by use, wastewater flow, and wastewater strength loadings 
and the amount shall be established by City Council resolution. The fee shall be collected by 
the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building 
permit. The fee shall be based on the most current adopted fee schedule at the time of 
payment. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first.
Planning Division (PA)
16 FINAL LANDSCAPING FOR SINGLE FAMILY PROJECTS – Apart from paved driveway and 
walkway areas, required front yard and street-side yard areas (if applicable) shall be 
improved with landscaping, which may consist of a combination of drought-tolerant plants 
and other organic and inorganic materials, except paving. If new landscaping is not 
proposed, any damaged landscaping shall be replaced with new landscaping as described 
above. Proposed new landscaping shall be shown on the building permit plans prior to 
permit issuance and all landscaping shall be installed prior to final inspection, subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
17 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the 
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for 
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
18 SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the soil 
investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report stating the 
completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work substantially conform to

--- page 14 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 5 of 12
the approved plans, specifications and investigations, to the satisfaction of the Building 
Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
19 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM – The applicant shall install a fire sprinkler system throughout the 
single-family dwelling in accordance with NFPA 13D or the California Residential Code 
subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to the Fire 
Final Inspection. (FIRE) 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT.
Planning Division (PA)
20 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING)
21 SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING WALL AND ROOF DEMOLITION – The applicant shall not 
demolish any exterior walls or roof structure beyond the demolition approved in this 
planning application approval and subsequent building permit. The applicant shall notify the 
Project Planner if any additional demolition of wall, roof structure, or any other portion of 
the building not originally approved for removal is requested. Any proposed modifications 
to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed 
modifications. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
22 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00 
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours do 
not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and does 
not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior property 
lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with Municipal 
Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)

--- page 15 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 6 of 12
23 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each building 
at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. (FIRE)
24 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during 
all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE) 
25 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent buildings/properties.  
(FIRE) 
Public Works Department (PA)
26 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
27 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-
tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall 
submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. The project sponsor 
shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from using “compression release engine brakes” 
on residential streets. The haul route for this project shall be: <insert haul route>, or as 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee. A letter from the applicant 
confirming the intention to use this hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of 
Public Works, and approved, prior to the issuance of any City permits. All material hauling 
activities including but not limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, 
staging of materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the 
applicant. All storage and office trailers shall be kept off the public right-of-way. Tracking of 
dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed. Entry and exit from the site will use rock 
or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The applicant shall provide an approved method of 
cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. Any job-related dirt and/or debris that impacts 
the public right of way shall be removed immediately. No wash down of dirt into storm 
drains is allowed. Use of a sweeper is permissible as long as it operates dry (no water used, 
only vacuum). All material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable City 
ordinances and conditions of approval. Violation of such may be cause for suspension of 
work. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 16 ---
PA-2021-049, 125 15TH AVE., SUP
As approved on ________
Page 7 of 12
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
28 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as part 
of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning 
application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the proposed 
modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or whether a 
planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the proposed 
modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  (PLANNING)
29 ONGOING LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE – All landscaped areas shall be maintained free of 
litter, debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy growing 
condition and, whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials to ensure 
continued conformance with approved plans. (PLANNING)
City Attorney (PA)
30 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of San 
Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any 
costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, including, 
without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party challenge.  
If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to select the counsel 
who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY)
31 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 17 ---
March 2, 2023 
 
Jessica Sin 
1162 Ebener Street 
Redwood City, CA 94061 
jsin@jessicasindesigns.com  
 
Subject:  PA-2022-051, 329 Greenfield Ave., SFDDR 
 
329 Greenfield Avenue, APN 042-214-030 
 
Dear Ms. Sin: 
 
This letter is a follow up to your Planning Application submittal of July 21, 2022, as referenced above. 
Enclosed is a copy of the Zoning Administrator's decision to approve the application as well as applicable 
Conditions of Approval.  This approval by the Zoning Administrator is final unless appealed within ten (10) 
calendar days of the date of this approval. You will be contacted if an appeal is filed.  
 
Any required Building Permits can be submitted online at www.cityofsanmateo.org/onlinepermitcenter. In 
accordance with Municipal Code section 27.08.085, this Planning Application approval is valid for two years. 
If this approval expires, a new Planning Application must be resubmitted subject to all codes and policies in 
effect at the time of the new submittal. Please also note that the time within which judicial review may be 
sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.  In addition, the time within which the 
imposition of fees, dedications, reservations, or other exactions may be challenged is governed by 
Government Code Section 66020. Please contact me at (650) 522-7224 or via email at 
kchou@cityofsanmateo.org for any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Kenneth Chou, Assistant Planner 
 
Enclosure: Decision of the Zoning Administrator and Conditions of Approval  
 
Cc:  Heba Mansour, Property Owner (Email Distribution hebamansour86@gmail.com) 
 
Project Planner (Email Distribution) 
Development Review Board Members (Email Distribution) 
 
Planning Manager (Email Distribution) 
 
Zoning Administrator (Email Distribution) 
 
City Clerk (Email Distribution) 
 
Planning Commission (Email Distribution) 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
    
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
 
    
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org   
(650) 522-7000

--- page 18 ---
DECISION OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 
 
PA#: PA-2022-051 
 
PA NAME: 329 Greenfield Ave., SFDDR 
 
ZONING CLASSIFICATION:  R1-C 
 
ADDRESS/APN: 329 Greenfield Avenue/042-214-030 
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR) for an approximately 566 square-foot 
second-story addition to an existing one-story single-family residence. The project also includes a 344 square-
foot one-story addition to the front of the residence.  
 
PLANNING APPLICATION APPROVALS:  
 
X 
SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DESIGN REVIEW 
 
PROJECT PLANNER:  Kenneth Chou 
 
APPROVAL DATE:    03/02/2023
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
    
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
 
    
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org   
(650) 522-7000

--- page 19 ---
FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL: 
 
I. CEQA CLEARANCE 
 
The project is categorically exempt from environmental guidelines (Class 1 §15301, Existing 
Facilities) since it represents an addition to a single-family dwelling of less than 10,000 
square foot of floor area. 
 
II. SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING DESIGN REVIEW (Zoning Code Section §27.08.032) 
 
1. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are consistent with the adopted R1 Single 
Family Dwelling Design Guidelines in that: 
a. The proposed addition is well-integrated with the existing architectural character of 
the neighborhood. The existing surrounding neighborhood consists of mainly ranch 
style architecture. The proposed addition will also maintain the existing architectural 
style of the house, which is best characterizes as ranch style architecture. 
b. The proposed addition is located away from the edges of the property, keeping 
volumes away from the property line. The proposed second story addition has a 
front setback of 25’-9 ½”, which reduces the apparent mass along the front façade of 
the residence. The character and scale of the addition are also compatible with 
other neighboring house, which include both one and two-story residences. 
c. The proposed addition provides second story stepback on all sides to respect the 
privacy of adjacent neighbors. Second story windows facing the rear property line 
has a rear yard setback of 25 feet and are located more than 50 feet from the rear 
windows of the adjacent residence to the rear. The proposed second story rear 
windows will be frosted for privacy, with the exception of the window serving the 
stairway landing, which is an area not commonly viewed as a common living area 
causing casual viewing. In addition, tall landscape hedges are proposed along the 
rear fence for privacy screening.   
d. The proposed exterior material palette will continue the existing stucco as the 
exterior finish, provide high quality dark matte standing seam metal roof, aluminum 
clad windows, and smooth limestone for the arch porch trims to create a 
harmonious design.   
 
2. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the 
City in that the proposed building is within the maximum allowable floor area and height 
of the underlying zoning district.  The project is in a Single-Family Dwelling (R1-C) zoning 
district, which permits a maximum allowable floor area ratio of 0.50 for parcels up to 
6,000 square-feet plus 0.20 for any parcel area over 6,000 square-feet. The maximum 
height is 24 feet to the plate line, and 32 feet to the roof peak. The proposed addition is 
in conformance with the maximum allowable floor area, minimum setbacks, and 
maximum height. 
 
3. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the

--- page 20 ---
vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in 
that the proposed addition is designed with high quality materials that add value to the 
existing dwelling, is well integrated into the design, and is compatible to the 
surrounding residential neighborhood. 
 
4. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning 
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any 
violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on 
the site in that the proposed addition does not exceed the height limitations, parking, or 
daylight plane requirements for the site and will be constructed in conformance with 
the Uniform Building Code. 
 
5. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that it will be constructed in accordance with the City's 
Security ordinance.

--- page 21 ---
III. GENERAL PLAN CONFORMITY 
 
The project conforms to the following Land Use policies of the General Plan: 
 
LU 1.9:   
Single-Family and Duplex Preservation.  Protect established predominantly single-
family areas by limiting new development in such areas to single-family uses, and 
protect predominantly duplex areas by limiting new development to low-density 
residential uses as delineated on the Land Use Map.  Consider re-designating multi-
family areas to single-family and low-density residential uses where such uses 
predominate and where the creation of additional legal non-conforming uses would 
be minimized. 
 
LU 1.9a: 
Single-Family Dwelling Projects.  Enhance the livability of San Mateo neighborhoods 
by reviewing Single-Family Dwelling Design Review planning applications for 
compatibility with neighborhood character, relationship to the neighborhood, and 
elements of design and site layout as described in the City’s Single-Family Design 
Guidelines.  
 
The project conforms to these policies in that the construction of the second floor addition on 
an existing single-family residence will not impact the single family character of the 
neighborhood, increase the intensity of use on the property, or exceed the allowable floor area 
ratio or single family building height.   
 
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION: 
 
X 
APPROVED 
CEQA CLEARANCE:  §15301 
CATEGORICAL EXEMPTION 
CLASS 1 - Minor alteration of an existing 
private structure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL: See Attached. 
 
 
SIGNATURE      
 
 
 
 
 
                                          
 
 
      Rendell Bustos, Deputy Zoning Administrator 
 
 
DATE: 
 
03/02/2023 * 
 
* This decision is final unless appealed in writing within ten (10) calendar days of the above 
date.

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2022-051, 329 GREENFIELD AVE., SFDDR 
329 GREENFIELD AVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94403-5011 
 PARCEL # 042214030 
 AS APPROVED BY THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR ON 3/2/2023 
 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. 
Types of Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and 
Superstructure. 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, 
BUILDING PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, 
whichever is issued first, or prior to the deadline specified in that condition. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, 
details, and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved 
planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project 
description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. 
Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed 
and approved by the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior 
to construction of the proposed modifications. The Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, shall determine whether the proposed modifications 
substantially conform with the approved planning application, or whether a 
planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 
Modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay 
all outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
4 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans 
shall demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards

--- page 23 ---
Codes and local amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing 
the building permit application. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a 
Land Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not 
be limited to: location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and 
easements, existing buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other 
structures. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, 
signed, and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and 
integrate recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the 
Building Official or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped 
and signed by the Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and 
specifications substantially conform to the recommendations in the soil report, 
subject to the satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
7 STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP) – The project applicant 
shall provide a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in compliance with 
Bay Area Stormwater Management Agencies Association (BASMAA) Blueprint for a 
Clean Bay Best Management Practices to Prevent Stormwater Pollution from 
Construction-Related Activities.  (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE. 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
8 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen 
Checklist noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in 
accordance with the California Green Building Standards Code and City of San 
Mateo Reach Codes subject to the review and approval by the Building Official, or 
his/her designee. Current City of San Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on 
Building Division webpage or will be provided by Community Development 
Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed 
Water Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates 
the project is subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant 
to Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the 
screening form shall also be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water

--- page 24 ---
Conservation in Landscaping forms are located on Building Division webpage. The 
applicant shall submit the required landscape documentation package with building 
permit application subject to the review and satisfaction of the Building Official, or 
his/her designee.  (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
10 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that 
all construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit 
submittal. The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire 
Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire 
systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in 
conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. 
The plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
12 SEWER LATERAL INSPECTION –  As required by Municipal Code Section 7.38.432, the 
applicant shall hire a licensed plumber or contractor to perform a sewer lateral 
inspection and complete a Sewer Lateral Inspection Form (Form) to be submitted to 
the Director of Public Works or designee, unless the project is exempt per Municipal 
Code Section 7.38.432(c)(2). The video inspection shall be completed prior to 
building permit issuance. The Form shall be reviewed by the Department of Public 
Works. If the Form indicates a failed inspection, the repair and/or replacement of 
the sewer lateral shall appear on the building permit plans for the superstructure 
prior to building permit issuance. In addition, if the Form indicates a failed 
inspection, the applicant shall repair and/or replace the sewer lateral, with all 
required permits, and provide an updated Form with a passing inspection, prior to 
occupancy. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, 
electric power, and other communications lines underground to the building in 
accordance with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and 
switch gear cabinets shall be placed on private property or within a utility easement.  
(PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 UTILITIES – It is required that the project underground any new or upgraded service 
lines serving the site, including but not limited to CTV and Electrical line.   No

--- page 25 ---
overhead connection is allowed. 
 
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground 
electrical, gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables 
including the size, location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility 
service stubs and meters and placements or arrangements of junction structures. 
 
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic 
rated boxes and lids. 
 
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the 
project frontage by potholing. Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an 
encroachment permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval. 
Developer shall provide the pothole results to the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee prior to final design. Any utility conflicts shall be the 
responsibility of the developer to rectify. (PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE – A wastewater capacity charge, as established by 
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.065, is imposed on all new development to 
recover a proportionate share of costs for existing and future wastewater system 
facilities and assets from new or expanded connections to City wastewater systems. 
The applicable wastewater capacity charge is determined by use, wastewater flow, 
and wastewater strength loadings and the amount shall be established by City 
Council resolution. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and 
paid prior to issuance of the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be 
based on the most current adopted fee schedule at the time of payment. (PUBLIC 
WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, 
ISSUANCE OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE 
OF OCCUPANCY, whichever occurs first. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
16 FINAL LANDSCAPING FOR SINGLE FAMILY PROJECTS – Apart from paved driveway 
and walkway areas, required front yard and street-side yard areas (if applicable) 
shall be improved with landscaping, which may consist of a combination of drought-
tolerant plants and other organic and inorganic materials, except paving. If new 
landscaping is not proposed, any damaged landscaping shall be replaced with new 
landscaping as described above. Proposed new landscaping shall be shown on the 
building permit plans prior to permit issuance and all landscaping shall be installed 
prior to final inspection, subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)

--- page 26 ---
17 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and 
landscaping, the applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final 
inspection for verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. 
The applicant shall contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a 
minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA) 
 
 
18 SOIL FINAL REPORT – The Geotechnical Engineer or Civil Engineer who prepared the 
soil investigation, or an equally qualified professional, shall issue a final report 
stating the completed pad, foundation, finish grading and associated site work 
substantially conform to the approved plans, specifications and investigations, to 
the satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
19 FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM – The applicant shall install a fire sprinkler system 
throughout the single-family dwelling in accordance with NFPA 13D or the California 
Residential Code subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION 
PHASE OF THE PROJECT. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
20 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior 
to the installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the 
Project Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not 
limited to, window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact 
the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance 
of the requested inspection. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING WALL AND ROOF DEMOLITION – The applicant shall not 
demolish any exterior walls or roof structure beyond the demolition approved in 
this planning application approval and subsequent building permit. The applicant 
shall notify the Project Planner if any additional demolition of wall, roof structure, or 
any other portion of the building not originally approved for removal is requested. 
Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed 
and approved by the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior 
to construction of the proposed modifications. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Division (PA)

--- page 27 ---
22 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 
7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 
p.m. on Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. 
These hours do not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely 
enclosed building and does not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 
10 feet from the exterior property lines. The applicant shall conform to the 
construction work hours to control traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an 
exemption is granted in accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. 
(BUILDING) 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department (PA) 
 
 
23 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access 
road. (FIRE) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 
during all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent 
buildings/properties.  (FIRE)  
 
 
 
 
 
Public Works Department (PA) 
 
 
26 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all 
construction activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and 
Discharge Control Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed 
information can be located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-
pollution/with-new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/  
(PUBLIC WORKS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
27 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-
axle, six-tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the 
applicant shall submit a truck hauling route that conforms to City of San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 11.28.040 for the approval of the Director of Public Works 
or designee. The project sponsor shall require contractors to prohibit trucks from 
using “compression release engine brakes” on residential streets. The haul route for 
this project shall be: <insert haul route>, or as approved by the Director of Public 
Works or designee. A letter from the applicant confirming the intention to use this 
hauling route shall be submitted to the Department of Public Works, and approved, 
prior to the issuance of any City permits. All material hauling activities including but

--- page 28 ---
not limited to, adherence to the approved route, hours of operation, staging of 
materials, dust control and street maintenance shall be the responsibility of the 
applicant. All storage and office trailers shall be kept off the public right-of-way. 
Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be allowed. Entry and exit from 
the site will use rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking. The applicant shall provide 
an approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on site. Any job-related 
dirt and/or debris that impacts the public right of way shall be removed 
immediately. No wash down of dirt into storm drains is allowed. Use of a sweeper is 
permissible as long as it operates dry (no water used, only vacuum). All material 
hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable City ordinances and 
conditions of approval. Violation of such may be cause for suspension of work. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)  
 
 
 
 
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by 
this planning application occupies the premises. 
 
Planning Division (PA) 
 
 
28 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved 
planning application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises, substantially conform with the approved 
planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project 
description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. 
Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed 
and approved by the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior 
to construction of the proposed modifications. The Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the proposed modifications 
substantially conform with the approved planning application, or whether a 
planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 
Modifications.  (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
29 ONGOING LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE – All landscaped areas shall be maintained 
free of litter, debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a 
healthy growing condition and, whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant 
materials to ensure continued conformance with approved plans. (PLANNING) 
 
 
 
 
 
City Attorney (PA) 
 
 
30 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the 
City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from 
and against any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning 
application, including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might

--- page 29 ---
result from third party challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City 
shall retain the right to select the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY 
ATTORNEY) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
31 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-
Violations of Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions 
of approval is unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in 
Chapter 1.04-General Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other 
available legal remedies.  (CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 30 ---
APPLICATION FOR APPEAL 
Date Filed:_____________________ 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
TO: 
 City Council 
 
 Commission ______________________________________ 
 
 Zoning Administrator 
 
 Other:___________________________________ 
 
 
APPELLANT 
Name: 
      
Daytime Phone: 
      
 
Email: 
 
 
Address: 
      
      
      
 
 
 
Street 
City 
Zip Code 
 
 
 
SUBJECT 
Project Being Appealed: 
      
 
Address / Location: 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
State Reasons for Appeal and Particular Areas of Concern (if an appeal of Planning Applications conditions of approval, 
please list each condition appealed and the reason for your appeal):        
 
Added Comments or Proposal (if any):        
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appellant’s Signature 
 
Date 
 
(Attach additional sheets if necessary) 
Please refer to Comprehensive Fee Schedule for appeal filing fees. 
Office Use Only 
File #:  
 
Fee:  
 
Tentative Hearing Date: 
 
 
I
Planning Commission
Dennis Lee
415-613-3220
dennisflee@gmail.com
340 Midvale Ave. San Mateo, CA 94403
PA-2022-051
329 Greenfield Avenue
Concerns and related reason(s):
#1. Home privacy concern: our home is located directly at the back of the said property with an
adjoining back fence. The five proposed windows at the rear of the second story addition will directly
overlook our entire backyard and our home private space including our family room, bathroom and
bedrooms and have serious impacts on our home privacy. Even though the applicant revised plan to
include frosted windows and hedges, that still does not address our privacy concern. The frosted
windows only protect the owner privacy but not ours. When the windows are open, the view points are
there overlooking our backyard and our home's private space. The proposed hedges won't help until
after X years when they grow to the window height.
#2, #3 and #4 are attached to the email due to this section's space limit.
It will definitely be less intrusive to our privacy if these proposed windows are smaller or less and the
windows' sill level be raised to above eye level.
We also hope the city looks into this matter and help so neighbering privacy can be preserved.
3/10/2023

--- page 31 ---
1
Kenneth Chou
From:
Dennis Lee <dennisflee@gmail.com>
Sent:
Saturday, March 11, 2023 3:20 PM
To:
Kenneth Chou
Cc:
Dennis Lee
Subject:
PA-2022-51: Appeal
Attachments:
329 Appeal form filled4.pdf
Hi Kenneth, 
 
Attached is our filled‐in appeal form. Due to limited space in the form, I am including all 4 items of our "concerns and 
related reason(s)" in this email. Please let me know if you have any questions. 
 
Thank you, 
Dennis Lee 
 
Concerns and related reason(s): 
#1. Home privacy concern: our  home is located directly at the back of the said property with an adjoining back fence. 
The five proposed windows at the rear of the second story addition will directly overlook our entire backyard and our 
home's private space including our family room, bathroom and bedrooms and have serious impacts on our home 
privacy. Even though the applicant revised plan to include frosted windows and hedges, that still does not address our 
privacy concern. The frosted windows only protect the owner privacy but not ours. When the windows are open, the 
view points are still there overlooking our backyard and our home's private space. The proposed hedges won't help until 
after a number of years when they grow to the window height. 
#2. City's Design Guidelines on neighboring privacy 
Section 6b of the guidelines states:  
Bullet point 1: avoid direct views into neighboring windows or yard areas 
Bullet point 3: manipulation of architectural forms create or enhance neighboring privacy 
Guideline statement after the bullet points: Design house additions to respect adjacent neighbor privacy 
We hope the city can look into this matter and help so all parties’ privacy can be preserved. 
#3. The sizes of the proposed windows at the rear of the second story addition  
The measurements of the windows were  2'x2' (3), 2.5'x3' (1) and 3'x3' (1) at the first review meeting. We expressed our 
privacy concerns to the owners and architect. We also subsequently emailed them a few times with our additional 
comments. We feel strongly these windows will cause privacy impacts for our home. However the dimensions of these 
five windows all increased to 4 feet to 2'x4' (3), 2.5'x4' (1) and 3'x4'(1) respectively.This change was in contrary in 
addressing our privacy concerns. We were very surprised and disappointed with this change. These five windows are big 
and privacy invading. Does the proposed space really need that many such big windows?  
#4. Error/misleading statement in the Zoning Administrator’s Decision Letter 
Per the window schedule in the latest plan of the project, all five second story rear windows are “frosted glazing”.  But 
the "FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL" of the approval letter (section II 1c)  states “The proposed second story rear windows 
will be frosted for privacy, with the exception of the window serving the stairway landing…” We verified with Mr. 
Kenneth Chou who confirmed the statement in the decision letter was an error. We feel this error statement is very 
misleading. we would like to request a correction. Also we like to request notifying all parties involved about this error 
as well as the correction.

--- page 32 ---
FOR REFERENCE ONLY 
Att 4 – Location Map 
 
PA-2022-051 
329 Greenfield Ave., SFDDR 
 
Address: 329 Greenfield Ave. 
Parcel Number (APN): 042-214-030 
 
 
500 feet

--- page 33 ---
329 
GREENFIELD 
AVENUE
SAN MATEO, 
CA 94403
1 2
1
1
SINGLE FAMILY DATA 
INFORMATION
GENERAL 
NOTES
PROJECT 
SUMMARY
DRAWING 
SHEET INDEX
329 GREENFIELD 
AVE. SAN
MATEO, CA 
94403
SITE 
ADDRESS:
1. THE CONTRACTOR IS SOLELY 
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
CONSTRUCTION MEANS, METHODS, 
TECHNIQUES, SEQUENCES AND
PROCEDURE WITH THE PROJECT. 
NEITHER THE OWNER NOR THE
ARCHITECT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
CONTRACTOR'S FAILURE TO
FOLLOW PROPER SAFETY PROCEDURES.
ARCHITECT
URAL:
APN#:
ZONIN
G:
042214
030
APN: 042-
214-030
042-214-
030
R1-C SINGLE 
FAMILY
±5,268 SF
SURV
EY:
R1-C Single 
Family
A0.0 COVER 
SHEET
A0.1 GENERAL NOTES
A0.2 CALGREEN CHECKLIST
A0.3 ARBORIST REPORT
A0.4 EXISTING AND PROPOSED 
EXTERIOR VIEWS
A0.5 EXISTING FLOOR AREA 
DIAGRAM AND
CALCULATIONS
A0.6 PROPOSED FIRST & 
SECOND FLOOR AREA
DIAGRAM AND CALCULATIONS
A1.0 EXISTING SITE PLAN & 
PROPOSED SITE PLAN
A1.1 EXISTING ROOF PLAN / 
DEMO PLAN
A1.2 PROPOSED ROOF PLAN
A1.3 PROPOSED SITE PLAN / 
ADJACENT PROPERTIES
WINDOWS
A1.4 EXISTING & PROPOSED 
PERVIOUS DIAGRAM
AND CALCULATIONS
A1.5 GRADING AND DRAINAGE 
PLAN
A2.0 EXISTING FLOOR PLAN / 
DEMO PLAN
A2.1 PROPOSED FIRST FLOOR & 
SECOND FLOOR
PLAN
A2.2 DOOR AND WINDOW 
SCHEDULES
A3.0 EXISTING ELEVATIONS
ZONING 
CLASSIFICATION
:
LOT SIZE 
(SQ.FT.):
CONSTRUCTIO
N TYPE:
HISTORIC 
STATUS:
LOT SIZE: 
±5,268 SF*
SETBACKS:
V-
B
SU-1 TOPOGRAPHIC 
AND BOUNDARY
SURVEY
2. ALL CODES HAVING JURISDICTION ARE 
HEREBY MADE A PART OF
THIS DOCUMENT AND ARE TO BE 
STRICTLY OBSERVED BY THE
CONTRACTOR IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF 
THE PROJECT. IN THE
EVENT OF CONFLICT BETWEEN THESE 
DOCUMENT AND THE CODE,
THE CODE SHALL PREVAIL. ANY CONFLICT 
OR DISCREPANCY SHALL
IMMEDIATELY BE BROUGHT TO THE 
ATTENTION OF THE ARCHITECT.
NON
E
PERMITTED FLOOR 
AREA RATIO:
50
%
MAXIMUM PERMITTED FLOOR 
AREA (SQ. FT.): ±
±2,634 
SF
FRON
T:
SIDE:
REAR
:
15'-
0"
5'-0"
SETBACK -FRONT:15'-0" REAR: 15'-0" 
/ NEW CONSTRUCTION
ABOVE SINGLE STORY 25'-0" LEFT: 5'-
0" RIGHT: 5'-0"
3. ALL WORK TO BE ACCEPTABLE, MUST 
BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH
THESE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS, 
AND UST BE OF A QUALITY
EQUAL OR BETTER THAN THE STANDARD 
OF THE TRADE. FINISHED
WORKS SHALL BE FIRM, LEVEL-
ANCHORED, IN TRUE ALIGNMENT,
PLUMB, LEVEL, WITH SMOOTH, CLEAN, 
UNIFORM APPEARANCE.
15'-0" / NEW 
CONSTRUCTION 
ABOVE
SINGLE STORY 25'-0"
FLOOD 
ZONE: NO
PARKING: (2) EXISTING 
COVERED PARKING SPACE
IN GARAGE TO REMAIN
EXISTI
NG:
±1,236 
SF
PROPO
SED:
4. CONTRACTOR SHALL AT ALL TIMES 
PROVIDE PROTECTION
AGAINST WEATHER, RAIN, WINDSTORMS, 
OR HEAT SO AS TO
MAINTAIN ALL WORK, MATERIALS, 
EQUIPMENT AND APPARATUS FREE
FORM INJURY OR DAMAGE.
FLOOR AREA 
(SQ. FT.):
MAX. FLOOR 
AREA:
SINGLE FAMILY 
RESIDENCE¹:
ATTACHED/DETACH
ED GARAGE:
FRONT PORCH:
±2,146 
SF
±404 
SF
±99 SF
N/A
MAX FA ALLOWED: 5,268 SF * 
50% = ±2,634 SF
EXISTING FLOOR AREA:
±404 
SF
5. CONTRACTOR SHALL VISIT THE SITE OF 
THE PROJECT, EXAMINE
FOR HIMSELF/HERSELF THE NATURE OF 
THE EXISTING CONDITIONS
AND ALL OTHER CONDITIONS RELEVANT 
TO THE SATISFACTORY
COMPLETION FO TEH PROJECT. 
SUBMISSION OF A BID FOR
CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE CONSIDERED 
EVIDENCE OF SUCH
EXAMINATION BY THE CONTRACTOR.
(-) ±140 
SF
(E)
(E) HOUS
E:
GARA
GE:
±1,236 
SF
±404 
SF
±106 
SF
±140 
SF
COVERED PATIOS/ 
BALCONIES:
N/
A
(E) 
SHED (TO 
BE DEMO):
(E) 
PORCH:
(-)
(-)
(-) ±106 
SF
(SHED)
TO 
BE
DEM
O
A3.1 EXISTING 
ELEVATIONS
A3.2 PROPOSED 
ELEVATIONS
A3.3 PROPOSED 
ELEVATIONS
A4.0 SECTIONS AND 
DETAILS
A4.1 STREETSCAPE 
ELEVATION
A5.0 PROPOSED INTERIOR 
VIEWS
A6.0 CONSTRUCTION 
BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES (BMPs)
DETACHED ACCESSORY 
STRUCTURES:
6. BEFORE ORDERING MATERIAL OR 
COMMENCING WORK WHICH IS
DEPENDENT FOR THE PROPER SIZE AND 
INSTALLATION UPON
COORDINATION WITH CONDITIONS IN THE 
BUILDING. THE
CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY ALL 
DIMENSIONS AND SHALL BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CORRECTNESS. 
ANY DISCREPANCIES
BETWEEN THE DOCUMENTS AND THE 
EXISTING CONDITIONS SHALL
BE REFERRED TO THE ARCHITECT FOR 
ADJUSTMENTS BEFORE ANY
WORK BEGINS OR MATERIALS ARE 
PURCHASED.
TOTAL EXISTING 
FLOOR AREA:
±1,640 
SF*
FRONT PORCH EXEMPTION 
(SUBTRACT UP TO 100 SQ. FT.):
TOTAL FLOOR AREA:
±0 
SF
(-) ±99 
SF
±2,550 
SF
PROPOSED 
FLOOR AREA:
±1,640 
SF
(E)
(E) HOUS
E:
±1,236 
SF
±404 
SF
±344 
SF
±566 
SF
GARA
GE:
(N) 
FIRST FLOOR 
ADDITION:
EXISTING INTERIOR FLOOR AREA 
TO BE REMODELED:
±638 
SF
(N) 
SECOND 
FLOOR ADDITION:
TOTAL PROPOSED 
FLOOR AREA:
EXISTING LOT 
COVERAGE:
±2,550 
SF*
7. MATERIALS, PRODUCT AND 
EQUIPMENT SHALL ALL BE NEW,
EXCEPT AS SPECIFICALLY NOTED 
OTHERWISE.
RENDERING OF PROPOSED 
FRONT ELEVATION
PERCENTAGE AND LINEAR FEET OF 
EXISTING EXTERIOR
RESIDENCE/ GARAGE WALLS TO BE 
DEMOLISHED²:
±55 LF 
(33%)
8. CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE 
FOR T LOCATION ALL
DEBRIS IN A LOCATION OF THE PROPERTY 
APPROVE BY THE OWNER
AND SHALL REMOVE SAME IN A TIMELY 
MANNER DURING THE
COURSE OF WORK.
(E)
(E)
(E)
HOUS
E:
GARA
GE:
PORC
H:
±1,236 
SF
±404 
SF
±140 
SF
±106 
SF
TOTAL FLOOR AREA FOR PARKING 
REQUIREMENTS (SEE
ZONING CODE SECTION 27.18.110):¹
2 GARAGE 
SPACES
1 COVERED
(E) 
SHED:
TOTAL GARAGE PARKING 
STALLS (MIN. 10' BY 18'):
9. CONTRACTOR SHALL REMOVE FROM 
SITE ALL EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENTS 
NECESSARY FRO COMPLETION
OF THE PROJECT, PROTECTION FROM 
DAMAGE OR INJURY ALL
EXISTING TREES, LANDSCAPING AND 
IMPROVEMENT INDICATED BY
THE DRAWINGS.
TOTAL EXISTING LOT 
COVERAGE:
PROPOSED LOT 
COVERAGE:
±1,886 
SF*
TOTAL UNCOVERED PARKING 
STALLS (TANDEM NOT
PERMITTED):
1 
UNCOVE
RED
(E)
(E) HOUS
E:
GARA
GE:
±1,236 
SF
±404 
SF
±106 
SF
±99 SF
±344 
SF
±566 
SF
LIST OF ALL HERITAGE TREES ON 
SITE INCLUDING SPECIES
AND SIZE:
10. EXCAVATE ALL FOOTING AS 
NECESSARY, INDICATED ON THE
DRAWING TO REACH SOLID, 
UNDISTURBED SOIL. BOTTOMS FOR
EXCAVATIONS SHALL BE LEVEL, CLEAN 
AND DRY AND AT THE
ELEVATIONS INDICATED ON THE 
STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS.
(E) 
SHED (TO 
BE DEMO):
(N) 
PORCH:
(-)
(-)
(+)
(N) 
FIRST FLOOR 
ADDITION:
1. SEE "SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE "FLOOR AREA" 
AND "PARKING FLOOR AREA"
CALCULATION INFORMATION" ON PAGES 23-25 OF THIS 
GUIDE. RESIDENCE FLOOR AREA
INCLUDES ALL PORCHES (WITH A LIMITED 
EXCLUSION), COVERED PATIOS, COVERED
BALCONIES, POSSIBLY ATTICS AND BASEMENTS.
(N) 
SECOND FLOOR 
ADDITION: (+)
TOTAL PROPOSED 
LOT COVERAGE:
±2,550 
SF*
11. PROVIDE FINISH GRADES TO 
DRAIN AWAY FROM THE
FOUNDATIONS ON ALL SIDE OF THE 
BUILDING. IF THERE ARE
EXTERIORS IMPROVEMENTS.
2. EXISTING EXTERIOR WALLS THAT ARE 
CONVERTED TO INTERIOR WALLS SHALL BE
COUNTED AS WALLS TO BE DEMOLISHED. DOORS, 
INCLUDING GARAGE DOORS, ENTRY
DOORS, AND SLIDING GLASS DOORS, SHALL NOT BE 
INCLUDED IN THE PERCENTAGE
CALCULATION OF AN EXISTING STRUCTURE'S 
EXTERIOR WALLS.
NOT
E:
FIRE SPRINKLERS WILL BE 
INSTALLED UNDER A
SEPARATED DEFFERED FIRE 
PERMIT. APPROVED BY
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT PRIOR 
TO INSTALLATION.
12. CONTRACTOR TO PRECISELY 
LOCATE ALL UTILITIES PRIOR TO
ANY CONSTRUCTION AND/OR 
EXCAVATION.
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
13. SEE STRUCTURAL DRAWINGS 
FOR REQUIRED SPECIAL
INSPECTIONS.
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
PROJECT 
TEAM
VICINITY 
MAP
PROJECT 
DESCRIPTION
ARCHIT
ECT:
THIS PROJECT INCLUDES A FIRST AND SECOND 
STORY ADDITION TO AN EXISTING
ONE STORY RESIDENCE. THE PROJECT INVOLVES AN 
INTERIOR REMODELING AND
RECONFIGURATION OF A NEW LARGER KITCHEN, 
LIVING ROOM, AND DINING ROOM ON
THE FIRST FLOOR.
JESSICA 
SIN
JSD ARCHITECTURE 
+ INTERIORS
1162 EBENER 
STREET
REDWOOD CITY CA 
94061
jsin@jessicasindesigns.
com
650-206-4608
THE PROPOSAL ALSO INCLUDES A NEW PRIMARY 
BEDROOM WITH AN ENSUITE
BATHROOM AND WALK-IN CLOSET ON THE SECOND 
FLOOR ADDITION. PART OF THE
EXTERIOR CHANGES IS A NEW ADDITION AT THE 
FRONT WITH A NEW COVERED
PORCH AT THE ENTRY.
SURV
EY:
1
L. WADE 
HAMMOND
A0
.0
CIVIL ENGINEERING AND 
LAND SURVEYING
36660 NEWARK BLVD. 
SUITE C
NEWARK, CA 46560
wade@whlandsur
veyor.com
(510)-579-6112
COVER 
SHEET

--- page 34 ---
CALIFORNIA GREEN 
BUILDING CODE-
RESIDENTIAL 
MANDITORY 
MEASURES
ABBREVIA
TIONS
A
GENERAL 
NOTES
TB
TOWEL 
BAR
1. 
CGBSC 
4.106:
REFER TO CIVIL DRAWINGS FOR 
STORMWATER TREATMENT
DURING CONSTRUCTION, SITE 
GRADING AND PAVING, & SITE
DRAINAGE IN COMPLIANCE WITH 
LOCAL STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
1. 
THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS CONSIST OF THE 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
OWNER AND CONTRACTOR, CONDITIONS OF THE 
CONTRACT (GENERAL,
SUPPLEMENTARY AND OTHER CONDITIONS), 
DRAWINGS, SPECIFICATIONS,
ADDENDA AND MODIFICATIONS ISSUED PRIOR TO 
OR AFTER EXECUTION OF THE
CONTRACT, AND OTHER DOCUMENTS LISTED IN 
THE AGREEMENT.
AC
AIR 
CONDITIONIN
G
ACOUSTICAL
ACRE-FOOT
AREA DRAIN
ADJUSTABLE
ABOVE FINISH 
FLOOR
AGGREGATE
ALTERNATE
ALUMINUM
DR
DOO
R
GN
D
GR
GROU
ND
MP
METAL 
PANEL
MOTION 
SENSOR
MOUNTED
RD
ROOF 
DRAIN
REINFORCI
NG
RECEPTAC
LE
RECTANG
ULAR
REFERENC
EREFRIGER
ATOR
REINFORC
ED
REQUIRED
TB
D
TC
A
TO BE 
DETERMINED
TILE 
COUNCIL OF
AMERICA
ACOU
ST
ACRE-
FT
AD
DS
DOWNSP
OUT
DISHWAS
HER
DRAWING
DRAWER
GRAD
E
MS
REBA
R
RECE
PRECT
REF
DW
DW
GDW
R
GS
M
GALVANIZED 
SHEET
METAL
GYPSUM
GYPSUM 
BOARD
MTD
MTG
MTL
MUL
LMW
MOUNTI
NG
METAL
TD
TEL
TEMP
THK
THRE
STO
TRENCH 
DRAIN
TELEPHO
NE
TEMPERE
DTHICK
THRESHO
LD
TOP OF
ADJ
AFF
AGG
RALT
GYP
GYP 
BD
2. 
CGBSC 
4.303:
REFER TO SHEET MEP 0.1, 
'PLUMBING GENERAL NOTES.'
FOR FIXTURE FLOW RATE 
REQUIREMENTS IN COMPLIANCE
WITH CGBSC. 20% REDUCTION IN 
WATER USE SHALL BE
DEMONSTRATED BY PRESCRIPTIVE/ 
PERFORMANCE
METHOD PER 4.303.1.
MULLION
MICROW
AVE
REF
R
REIN
FREQ
DRESI
LRET
GREV
E
F
2. 
THE WORK INCLUDED UNDER THIS CONTRACT 
CONSISTS OF ALL LABOR,
MATERIALS, TRANSPORTATION, TOOLS, AND 
EQUIPMENT NECESSARY FOR
THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROJECT LEAVING 
ALL WORK READY FOR USE.
(E)/EXI
ST
EEA
EB
ELEC
ELEV
ENCL
ENGR
EPB
EXISTI
NG
H
EAS
T
H
HIGH
HOSE 
BIBB
ALUM/
AL
ANCH
ANOD
AP
EAC
H
HB
RESILIE
NT
ANCH
OR
EXPANSION 
BOLT
ELECTRICAL
ELEVATION
ENCLOSURE
ENGINEER
ELECTRICAL 
PANEL
BOARD
HC
HOLLOW 
CORE
HOLLOW 
CORE WOOD
DOOR
N
O
(N)
NNIC
NO
NOM
NRC
A
NEW
NORT
H
RETAINI
NG
3. 
THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS DESCRIBE 
SPECIFIC DESIGN INTENT. THE
GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 
PROVISION OF COMPLETE
OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS AND INSTALLATIONS. THE 
PLANS INDICATE THE GENERAL
EXTENT OF NEW CONSTRUCTION NECESSARY FOR 
THE WORK, BUT ARE NOT
INTENDED TO BE ALL INCLUSIVE. ALL DEMOLITION 
AND NEW WORK NECESSARY
TO ALLOW FOR A FINISHED JOB IN ACCORDANCE 
WITH THE INTENTION OF THE
DRAWING IS INCLUDED REGARDLESS OF WHETHER 
SHOWN ON THE DRAWINGS
OR MENTIONED IN THE NOTES.
TOC
TOP
TOP
OTOS
TOW
TV
TOP OF 
CONCRETE
TOP OF 
PAVEMENT
TOPOGRAPH
YTOP OF 
STEEL
TOP OF 
WALL
TELEVISION
ANODIZ
ED
HCW
D
REVISI
ON
3. 
CGBSC 
4.304:
REFER TO SHEET I1.1-I1.4 FOR 
INFORMATION ON IRRIGATION
AND WEATHER-BASED CONTROLLER 
SPECIFIC NOTES.
ACCESS 
PANEL
APPROXIM
ATE
ARCHITECT
/ARCHITECT
URAL
ASPHALT/
ASPHALTIC
AVERAGE
NOT IN 
CONTRACT
NUMBER
RGT
R
RM
REGIST
ER
APPR
OX
ARCH
HDW
R
HM
HARDW
ARE
ROO
M
HOLLOW 
METAL
HORIZONT
AL
HIGH 
POINT
NOMIN
AL
RN
D
ROUN
D
HORI
Z
HP
NATIONAL 
ROOFING
CONTRACTO
RS
ASSOCIATIO
NNOT TO 
SCALE
RO
ROUGH 
OPENING
RAIN WATER 
LEADER
4. 
CGBSC 
4.406:
5. 
CGBSC 
4.408:
6. 
CGBSC 
4.410:
REFER TO SHEET A1.1, 'SITE 
PLAN' NOTE 12, FOR
REQUIREMENTS ON RODENT 
PROOFING.
ASP
H
AVG
RW
L
TY
P
TYPIC
AL
EQ
EQUI
PEW
EXP
EXT
EQU
AL
HR
HOUR
HEIG
HT
S
EQUIPMENT
EACH WAY
EXPANSION/E
XPOSED
EXTERIOR
HT
NT
S
S
SC
SOUTH/ 
SWITCH
SOLID 
CORE
REFER TO SHEET A1.1, 'SITE PLAN' 
NOTE 12, FOR
REQUIREMENTS ON CONSTRUCTION 
WASTE AND SALVAGE.
HVA
C
HEATING, 
VENTILATING
& AIR 
CONDITIONING
HOT WATER
U
B
C
4. 
ANY ERRORS, OMISSIONS OR CONFLICTS FOUND 
IN THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THE
CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS SHALL BE BROUGHT 
TO THE ATTENTION OF THE
ARCHITECT FOR CLARIFICATION BEFORE 
PROCEEDING WITH THE WORK.
UB
C
UL
UNIFORM 
BUILDING
CODE
UNDERWRITE
R'S
LABORATORY
UNFINISHED
UNLESS 
OTHERWISE
NOTED
BD
BOAR
D
O/
OVER
OVERALL
ON CENTER
OUTSIDE 
DIMENSION
OWNER
FURNISHED/
CONTRACTOR
INSTALLED
OWNER
FURNISHED/ 
OWNER
INSTALLED
OPPOSITE 
HAND
OPENING
OPPOSITE
OXYGEN
SCD
SCHE
DSCR
SCW
DSECT
SF
SEE CIVIL 
DRAWINGS
SCHEDULE
BITU
M
BLD
GBLK
BITUMIN
OUS
BUILDIN
GBLOCK
HW
HW
H
OA
OC
OD
OFC
I
REFER TO SHEET A0.2, BUILDING 
MAINTENANCE &
OPERATIONS, FOR 
REQUIREMENTS ON MAINTAINING
PROJECT SYSTEMS.
SCRE
EN
HOT WATER 
HEATER
(F)
FUTURE
FABRICATE
FLOOR AREA 
RATIO
FLAT BAR
SOLID CORE 
WOOD DOOR
SECTION
I
UNF
UO
N
BLK
GBM
BLOCKING
BEAM
BOTTOM
BRACKET
BRITISH 
THERMAL UNITS
BUILT-UP 
ROOFING
FAB
R
FAR
FB
ID
INSIDE 
DIAMETER/
DIMENSION
INCH
INCANDESC
ENT
INFORMATI
ON
INSULATION
INTERIOR
THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR (AND ANY OTHER 
SUBCONTRACTORS REQUIRED)
SHALL EXAMINE THE SITE AND PORTIONS THEREOF 
WHICH WILL AFFECT HIS
WORK. CONTRACTORS SHALL COMPARE IT WITH 
THE DRAWINGS AND SATISFY
THEMSELVES AS TO CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH 
WORK IS TO BE PERFORMED.
THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY THAT 
NO CONFLICTS EXIST IN
LOCATIONS OF ANY AND ALL MECHANICAL, 
TELEPHONE, ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING
AND SPRINKLER EQUIPMENT (TO INCLUDE ALL 
PIPING, DUCT WORK AND CONDUIT)
AND THAT ALL REQUIRED CLEARANCES FOR 
INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF
ABOVE EQUIPMENT ARE PROVIDED. EXPOSED OR 
CONCEALED ELEMENTS SHALL
BE DETERMINED AND REVIEWED WITH ARCHITECT 
PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF
WORK.
5.
SQUARE FOOT
SHEET
SHEATHING
SHOWER
SIMILAR
SEE 
LANDSCAPE
DRAWINGS
SKYLIGHT
SHEET METAL/ 
AIR
CONDITIONING
CONTRACTOR
SNATIONAL
ASSOCIATION
SEE 
MECHANICAL
DRAWING
SHEET METAL 
SCREW
SHEET 
MEMBRANE
WATERPROOF
ING
7. 
CGBSC 
4.500:
PROJECT HAS BEEN DESIGNED AND 
DOCUMENTED TO
COMPLY WITH THIS SECTION. 
REFER TO SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION 01355.
BOT
BRK
TBTU
IN
SH
T
FD
FDT
NFF
FH
FHM
S
FLOOR DRAIN
FOUNDATION
FINISH FLOOR
FULL HEIGHT
FLAT HEAD 
MACHINE
SCREW
INCA
D
INFO
INSU
LINT
SHTH
G
SHW
RSIM
V VER
T
VES
TVG
VERTICAL
VESTIBULE
VERTICAL 
GRAIN
VERIFY IN 
FIELD
OFO
I
BU
R
SL
D
VIF
C/C
CB
CENTER TO 
CENTER
CATCH BASIN
CEMENT
OH
J J-
BOX
JST
JT
JUNCTION 
BOX
JOIST
JOINT
OPN
G
OPP
OXY
SKYLT
SMAC
MA
WW
W/
WEST/ WIDE/ 
WIDTH
WITH
CEM
CER
CLG
CLK
GCLR
CMU
FHW
S
FLAT 
HEAD
CERA
MIC
WOOD 
SCREW
FINISH
WILDLAND URBAN 
INTERFACE
P
WD
WH
WIN
WO
W/O
WP
WR
WT
WT
R
WOO
D
CEILI
NG
FIN
K
L
KD
KIT
KILN 
DRIED
KITCHE
N
WATER 
HEATER
WINDOW
CAULKI
NG
FIXT
FLAS
HFLR
FIXTU
RE
PERF
PERP
PL
PLAM
PLAS
PLUM
BPLYW
DPNT
PERFORATED
PERPENDICUL
AR
PLATE
PLASTIC 
LAMINATE
PLASTER
PLUMBING
PLYWOOD
PAINT/ 
PAINTED
PRECAST
PREFABRICAT
ED
POUNDS PER 
SQUARE
FOOT
POUNDS PER 
SQUARE
INCH
ANY DISCREPANCIES OR CONFLICTS FOUND IN 
THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THE
CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS SHALL BE 
BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE
ARCHITECT FOR CLARIFICATION BEFORE 
PROCEEDING WITH THE WORK.
6.
CLEA
R
FLASHI
NG
PROJECT SHALL COMPLY WITH SECTION R327 
OF CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL
CODE, 2013 EDITION:
WHERE 
OCCURS
WITHOUT
CONCRETE 
MASONRY
UNIT
FLOO
R
SM
D
FLUO
R
FO
FLUORESCEN
T
FINISHED 
OPENING
FACE OF 
CONCRETE
FACE OF 
FINISH
FACE OF 
MASONRY
FACE OF 
STUD
FACE OF 
TREAD
FIREPROOFIN
GFULL SIZE
L
LONG/ 
LENGTH
LAMINATE
LAVATOR
YPOUND
WATERPRO
OF
WATER 
RESISTANT
WEIGHT
CNT
R
COL
COUNT
ER
COLUM
N
LA
M
LAV
LB
SMS
SMW
P
7. 
WRITTEN DIMENSIONS TAKE PRECEDENCE. DO 
NOT SCALE DRAWINGS. DETAILS
SHALL GOVERN OVER PLANS AND ELEVATIONS.
1. 
PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS 
SHALL BE NON-COMBUSTIBLE /
IGNITION RESISTANT PER CRC SECTION 
327.4.
FOC
FOF
FOM
FOS
FOT
FRP
FFS
FT
FTG
FUR
R
COM
B
CON
CCONS
TCONT
CONT
RCPT
COMBINATI
ON
CONCRETE
CONSTRU
CTION
CONTINUO
US
CONTRACT
OR
CARPET
WATE
R
LC
D
LD
LIQUID 
CRYSTAL 
DIODE
LINEAR 
DIFFUSER
LOW POINT
LIGHT
SPE
C
SR
SQ
SSD
SPECIFICATIONS/ 
SPECIAL
SUPPLY 
REGISTER
SQUARE
8. 
ALL DIMENSIONS ARE TO FACE OF FRAMING, 
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
DIMENSIONS NOTED AS "CLR" ARE TO BE 
PRECISELY MAINTAINED. DIMENSIONS
ARE NOT ADJUSTABLE WITHOUT ARCHITECT'S 
APPROVAL UNLESS NOTED AS "+/-".
2. 
PROPOSED ROOFING SHALL BE COMPLY 
WITH CRC SECTION R327.5.
PRCS
T
PREF
AB
PSF
LP
SYMB
OLS
3. 
VENTING FOR SOFFITS AND EAVES SHALL BE 
HAVE MESH SCREENING PER CRC
SECTION R327.6.
LT
SEE 
STRUCTURA
L
DRAWINGS
LT
G
LIGHTI
NG
9. 
ALL DIMENSIONS NOTED "VIF" ARE TO BE 
CHECKED BY CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO
CONSTRUCTION. IMMEDIATELY REPORT ANY 
DISCREPANCIES TO THE ARCHITECT.
&∠@
℄°"#±
AN
D
CT
CERAMIC 
TILE
CENTER
FOO
T
PSI
PT
SST
STD
STG
RSTL
STO
RSTR
LSUR
SUS
PSVC
SVY
SYM
STAINLESS 
STEEL
STANDARD
M
4. 
EXTERIOR COVERING SHALL BE 
COMPLY WITH CRC R327.7.
ANGL
E
CTR
CTS
KCW
FOOTI
NG
MAC
HMAT
MAX
MBR
MACHI
NE
AT
COUNTER
SUNK
COLD 
WATER
FURRI
NG
MATERI
AL
POINT/ 
PRESSURE
TREATED
POLYVINYL 
BUTYRAL
POWER
STAGG
ER
10. "ALIGN" SHALL MEAN TO ACCURATELY 
LOCATE FINISH FACES IN THE SAME
PLANE.
CENTER 
LINE
DEGREE
SINCH
5. 
EXTERIOR WINDOWS AND DOORS SHALL BE 
MULTI-PANED, TEMPERED GLASS
PER CRC SECTION R327.8.
MAXIM
UM
STEE
L
GG
GA
GAL
VGB
GD
GEN
GFC
I
GAS
GAUGE
GALVANIZED
GRAB BAR
GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL
GENERAL
GROUND FAULT 
CIRCUIT
INTERRUPTED
GROUND FAULT
INTERRUPTED
GLASS/GLAZED
MODIFIED 
BITUMEN
ROOFING
PVB
PW
R
STORA
GE
D D
DEEP/ 
DEPTH
DOUBLE
STRUCTU
RAL
SURFACE
11. "TYPICAL" OR "TYP" SHALL MEAN THAT THE 
CONDITION IS REPRESENTATIVE FOR
SIMILAR CONDITIONS THROUGHOUT, UNLESS 
OTHERWISE NOTED. DETAILS ARE
USUALLY KEYED AND NOTED "TYP" ONLY ONCE, 
WHEN THEY FIRST OCCUR.
NUMBER
PLUS/MI
NUS
6. 
EXTERIOR DECKING AND WALKWAYS SHALL 
BE NON-COMBUSTIBLE, IGNITION
RESISTANT PER CRC SECTION R327.9.
DBL
DEG
DEM
ODEP
TDET
DIA
MEC
HMEM
BMEZ
ZMFR
MID
MECHANICA
LMEMBRANE
MEZZANINE
MANUFACT
URER
MIDDLE
MINIMUM/ 
MINUTE
MIRROR
Q
R
DEGR
EE
QT
QT
Y
QUARRY 
TILE
QUANTIT
Y
SUSPEN
DED
SERVICE
DEMOLITI
ON
DEPARTM
ENT
DETAIL
DIAMETE
RDIAGONA
LDIMENSI
ON
DOWN
SURV
EY
(R)
R
REMO
VE
RISER
SYMMETR
ICAL
12. "SIMILAR" MEANS COMPARABLE 
CHARACTERISTICS FOR THE CONDITIONS NOTED.
VERIFY DIMENSIONS AND ORIENTATION ON PLANS 
AND ELEVATIONS.
MIN
T
DIA
G
DIM
DN
GFI
MIR
R
MIS
CMO
RA
D
RB
RADI
US
T
T&B
T&
G
TREAD/ 
THERMOSTAT
TOP & 
BOTTOM
TONGUE & 
GROOVE
MISCELLANE
OUS
MASONRY 
OPENING
RUBBER 
BASE
13. FEATURES OF CONSTRUCTION NOT FULLY 
SHOWN SHALL BE OF THE SAME
CHARACTER AS SHOWN FOR SIMILAR 
CONDITIONS.
GL/GL
AZ
RC
P
REFLECTED 
CEILING PLAN
14. GRID LINES ARE SHOWN TO FACE OF FRAMING 
U.O.N. AND ARE FOR REFERENCE.
MATERIAL 
SYMBOLS
REFERENCE 
SYMBOLS
DRAWING 
SYMBOLS
BUILDING MAINTENANCE 
AND OPERATIONS
A
15. OWNER WILL PROVIDE WORK NOTED "NIC" 
UNDER SEPARATE CONTRACT.
INCLUDE SCHEDULE REQUIREMENTS IN 
CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS SCHEDULE
AND COORDINATE TO ASSURE ORDERLY 
SEQUENCE OF INSTALLATION.
BUILDING 
ELEVATION
ELEVATION 
NUMBER
SHEET 
NUMBER
A1
PARTITION 
TYPE
SECTION 4.410: BLDG. 
MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION
4.410.1 OPERATION AND 
MAINTENANCE MANUAL.
STON
E
1
A2.
1
16. PROTECT AREA OF WORK AND 
ADJACENT AREAS FROM DAMAGE.
SHEET 
NOTE
METAL-DETAIL AND 
LARGE SCALE ONLY
WOOD, ROUGH
1
AT THE TIME OF FINAL INSPECTION, A MANUAL, 
COMPACT DISC, WEB-BASED
REFERENCE OR OTHER MEDIA ACCEPTABLE TO 
THE ENFORCING AGENCY
WHICH INCLUDES ALL OF THE FOLLOWING SHALL 
BE PLACED IN THE BUILDING:
VERIFY ALL EQUIPMENT SIZES 
BEFORE BEGINNING WORK.
17.
ALIG
N
BUILDING 
SECTION
SECTION 
NUMBER
SHEET 
NUMBER
18. FURNISH AND INSTALL ALL MISCELLANEOUS AND 
STRUCTURAL ITEMS (STEEL
ALUMINUM, ETC. INCLUDING MATERIAL FOR 
SEPARATION OF DISSIMILAR METALS)
FOR EXTERIOR WALL SYSTEMS, WINDOWS, 
ARCHITECTURAL GLASS, RAILINGS,
PARAPET WALLS, SCREEN WALLS, MARQUEES, 
ETC. ASSOCIATED WITH THE
BUILDING ENVELOPE AND ROOF.
1
ALIGN FINISH 
SURFACES
A3.1
1. 
DIRECTIONS TO THE OWNER OR OCCUPANT 
THAT THE MANUAL SHALL REMAIN
WITH THE BUILDING THROUGHOUT THE 
LIFECYCLE OF THE STRUCTURE.
WOOD, 
BLOCKING
2. 
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE FOLLOWING:
WALL 
SECTION
SECTION 
NUMBER
SHEET 
NUMBER
DIMENSION TO FACE 
OF ROUGH
FRAMING OR 
CENTERLINE
UNLESS OTHERWISE 
NOTED
WOOD, 
FINISH
19. IN THE EVENT OF CONFLICT BETWEEN DATA OR 
INFORMATION SHOWN ON
DRAWINGS AND DATA AND INFORMATION IN THE 
SPECIFICATIONS, THE
SPECIFICATIONS SHALL GOVERN. DETAIL 
DRAWINGS SHALL TAKE PRECEDENCE
OVER DRAWINGS OF SMALLER SCALE.
1
A. EQUIPMENT AND APPLIANCES, 
INCLUDING WATER-SAVING
DEVICES AND SYSTEMS, HVAC 
SYSTEMS, WATER-HEATING
SYSTEMS AND OTHER MAJOR 
APPLIANCES AND EQUIPMENT.
A3.11
PLYWO
OD
SLOPE (DOWN, UNLESS 
OTHERWISE
NOTED)
B. ROOF AND YARD DRAINAGE, 
INCLUDING GUTTERS AND
DOWNSPOUTS. DOWNSPOUTS ARE 
REQUIRED TO HAVE
CLEANOUTS AND ARE A 
MAINTENANCE ISSUE.
20. COORDINATE LOCATION AND PROVIDE 
BLOCKING, BACKING AND/OR
REINFORCEMENTS IN PARTITIONS FOR ALL 
CABINETS, COUNTERTOPS AND ANY
WALL MOUNTED ITEMS. REFER TO ELEVATIONS 
AND DETAILS FOR LOCATIONS
OF WALL STANDARDS AND OTHER SUPPORTS.
DETAIL 
REFERENCE
DETAIL 
NUMBER
SHEET 
NUMBER
BATT 
INSULATION
1
CENTER
LINE
A5.1
RIGID 
INSULATION
C. SPACE CONDITIONING SYSTEMS, 
INCLUDING CONDENSERS AND
AIR FILTERS.
PROPERTY 
LINE
21. THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE 
FOR ADEQUATELY FRAMING,
BRACING AND STRUCTURING ALL WALL, 
BULKHEAD AND OTHER DRYWALL
CONSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH 
APPLICABLE TYPICAL DETAILS
CONTAINED IN THE DRAWINGS WHETHER OR 
NOT SPECIFICALLY REFERENCED
IN THE PLANS.
DETAIL 
ENLARGEMENT
DETAIL 
NUMBER
SHEET 
NUMBER
1
WOO
D
TIL
E
GLASS, 
PLASTIC
D. LANDSCAPE 
IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
E . WATER REUSE 
SYSTEMS.
FLOOR MATERIAL 
TRANSITION
A5.1
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
DOOR 
MARK
DOOR 
NUMBER
SAND/ MORTAR/ PLASTER / 
GYPSUM BOARD
1
3. 
INFORMATION FROM LOCAL UTILITY, WATER 
AND WASTE RECOVERY
PROVIDERS ON METHODS TO FURTHER 
REDUCE RESOURCE CONSUMPTION,
INCLUDING RECYCLING PROGRAMS AND 
LOCATIONS.
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
WINDOW/ GLAZING 
SYSTEM MARK
WINDOW TYPE
CERAMIC TILE-
DETAIL AND LARGE 
SCALE ONLY
A
REVISION 
MARK
CLOUD AROUND 
REVISION
REVISION 
NUMBER
ROOM NAME 
MARK
ROOM NAME
CEILING 
HEIGHT
4. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MAINTAINING GUTTERS 
AND DOWNSPOUTS, AND THE
IMPORTANCE OF DIVERTING WATER AT LEAST 5 
FEET AWAY FROM THE
FOUNDATION. DOWNSPOUTS ARE REQUIRED TO 
HAVE CLEANOUTS AND ARE A
MAINTENANCE ISSUE.
CONCR
ETE
APPLICABLE 
CODES
X
DININ
G+12'-
0"
11'-
6"x10'-0"
EART
H
1
1
1. 
ALL CONSTRUCTION SHALL CONFORM 
WITH THE FOLLOWING CODES:
ROOM 
DIMENSIONS
DATUM 
POINT
5. 
INFORMATION ON REQUIRED ROUTINE 
MAINTENANCE MEASURES, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, CAULKING, PAINTING, 
GRADING AROUND THE BUILDING,
ETC.
CL
*
********
2019 CALIFORNIA 
BUILDING CODE
GRANULAR 
FILL
NEW 
PARTITION
STRU
CT
2019 CALIFORNIA 
RESIDENTIAL CODE
2019 CALIFORNIA 
MECHANICAL CODE
A
COLUMN STRUCTURAL GRID 
LINE TO FACE
OF ROUGH FRAMING OR 
CENTERLINE UNLESS
OTHERWISE NOTED
2019 CALIFORNIA 
PLUMBING CODE
6. 
A COPY OF ALL SPECIAL INSPECTION 
VERIFICATIONS REQUIRED BY THE
ENFORCING AGENCY OR THIS CODE.
2019 CALIFORNIA 
ELECTRICAL CODE
TRU
E
2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING CODE 
(CALGREEN)
2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE (WITH LOCAL 
AMENDMENTS)
2019 STATE OF CALIFORNIA TITLE 24 
ENERGY REGULATIONS
ALL OTHER APPLICABLE STATE AND LOCAL 
CODES AND ORDINANCES
NORTH 
ARROW
SHEET NUMBER 
SYSTEM
CONSULTANT GROUP 
OR DISCIPLINE
1
A: 
ARCHITECTUR
AL
IN THE EVENT OF CONFLICTS IN CODE 
REQUIREMENTS, THE MOST
STRINGENT REQUIREMENTS SHALL APPLY. 
ANY CONFLICTS BETWEEN THE
CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS AND ABOVE 
CODES AND ORDINANCES SHALL
BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF THE 
ARCHITECT AND OWNER FOR
RESOLUTION BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH THE 
WORK.
C: 
CIVIL
A0
.1
L: 
LANDSCAP
E
A1
S: 
STRUCTURA
LE: 
ELECTRICAL
M: 
MECHANICA
LP: 
PLUMBING
SHEET CATEGORY 
'0' DENOTES
GENERAL 
APPLICABILITY
GENERAL 
NOTES

--- page 35 ---
Feature or 
Measure
Yes/No 
and
Plan 
Reference
INTERIOR MOISTURE 
CONTROL (4.505)
(For full details of the code requirements see the 
2019 Cal Green Code)
Water conserving plumbing fittings. Fittings (faucets and 
showerheads) have all required standards listed on
plans and are in accordance to CGC 4.303.1.3 and CGC 403.1.4.
Concrete slab foundations. A capillary break shall be installed if a slab 
on grade foundation system is used. The
use of a 4” thick base of ½” or larger clean aggregate under a 6-mil 
vapor retarder with joint lapped not less than
6” will be provided per CGC 4.505.2 and CRC R506.2.3.
COMMUNITY 
DEVELOPMENT 
DEPARTMENT
330 West 20th 
Avenue
San Mateo, CA 
94403
www.cityofsanma
teo.org
Moisture content of building materials. Building materials with 
visible signs of water damage shall not be
installed. Wall and floor framing shall not be enclosed when the 
framing members exceed 19% moisture
content. Moisture content shall be checked prior to finish material 
being applied per CGC 4.505.3.
OUTDOOR WATER USE 
(CGC 4.304)
Yes
Scope. The provisions of Section 4.304 reference the mandatory Model 
Water Efficiency Landscape Ordinance
(MWELO) contained within Chapter 2.7, Division 2, Title 23 of the 
California Code of Regulations per CGC 4.304.1.
WATER REUSE SYSTEMS (CGC 4.305)
Laundry to Landscape Infrastructure. New single-family dwellings shall 
install a three-way diverter valve at the
drain line intended for optional laundry-to-landscape irrigation per CGC 
4.305.1.
CALGREEN: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 
PLAN SUBMITTAL CHECKLIST
INDOOR AIR ꢁUALITY AND EꢂHAUST (4.506)
Bathroom exhaust fans. ENERGY STAR compliant exhaust fans shall 
be provided in every bathroom per CGC
4.506.1. Fans shall be ducted to the outside and must be controlled 
by a humidity control, unless functioning as
part of a whole house ventilation system.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMFORT (CGC 4.507)
Heating and air conditioning. Heating and air-conditioning system 
shall be sized, designed and have their
equipment selected using the following methods:
New residential buildings shall be designed to include the green building 
mandatory measures specified in this checklist. This
checklist shall also be applied to additions or alterations of existing residential 
buildings where the addition or alteration increases
the buildings conditioned area, volume, or size. The requirements shall apply 
only to the specific area of the addition or alteration.
MATERIAL CONSERVATION AND 
RESOURCE EFFICIENCY
ENHANCED DURABILITY AND REDUCED 
MAINTENANCE (CGC 4.406)
* LOCAL GREEN BUILDING AND ENERGY ORIDNANCE MEASURES ARE LOCATED 
WITHIN THE CHECKLIST AND ARE IDENTIFIED WITH
“SMMC” AND THE SAN MATEO MUNICPAL CODE REFERENCE.
Rodent Proofing. Annular spaces around pipes, electric cables, conduits 
or other openings in sole/bottom
plates at exterior walls shall be rodent proofed by closing such openings 
with cement mortar, concrete
masonry, or similar method acceptable to the enforcing agency per 
CGC 4.406.1.
CONSTRUCTION WASTE REDUCTION, DISPOSAL, AND 
RECYCLING (CGC 4.408)
Construction waste management. Recycle and/or salvage for reuse a 
minimum of 65% of the nonhazardous
construction and demolition waste per CGC 4.408.1
BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION (CGC 
4.410)
Operation and maintenance manual. An operation and maintenance 
manual will be provided to the building
occupant or owner per CGC 4.410.1.
Recycling by occupants. Where 5 or more multifamily dwelling units are 
constructed on a single site, provide
readily accessible collection areas that serve all buildings on the site for 
depositing, storage and collection of non-
hazardous recyclables (including paper, corrugated cardboard, glass, 
plastics, organic waste, and metals) per CGC
4.410.2.
Yes
Yes
1. Heat Loss/Heat Gain values in accordance with ANSI/ACCA 2 
Manual J-2011 or equivalent;
2. Duct systems are sized according to ANSI/ACCA 1, Manual D-
2014 or equivalent;
3. Select heating and cooling equipment in accordance with 
ANSI/ACCA 3, Manual S-2014 or equivalent.
BUILDING PERMIT 
#:________________________________________________________________
______________________
329 GREENFIELD AVENUE, SAN MATEO, CA 94403
ADDRESS: 
_________________________________________________________________
_____________________________
INSTALLER AND SPECIAL INSPECTOR 
ꢁUALIFICATIONS
HVAC INSTALLER ꢁUALIFICATION (CGC 702)
HVAC installer training. HVAC system installers shall be trained and 
certified in the proper installation of HVAC
systems and equipment by a recognized training or certification 
program per CGC 702.1.
VERIFICATION (CGC 703)
Compliance documentation. Upon request, verification of compliance 
with this code may include construction
documents, plans, specifications, builder or installer certification, 
inspection reports, or other methods acceptable
to the building department which will show substantial conformance.
Specified 
Measures
Feature or 
Measure
Yes/No 
and
Plan 
Reference
Yes
Yes
(For full details of the code requirements see 
the 2019 Cal Green Code)
PLANNING AND 
DESIGN
SITE DEVELOPMENT (4.106)
Storm water pollution control. A plan has been developed and will be 
implemented to manage storm water
drainage during construction per CGC 4.106.2 & 4.106.3.
Note: Refer to the State Water Resource Control Board for project 
which disturb one acre or more of soil or are
part of a larger common plan of development which in total disturbs 
one acre or more of soil.
Grading and Paving. Construction plans to indicate how site grading 
and drainage system will manage all
water flows to keep water from entering buildings. Examples found at 
CGC 4.106.3. Alterations and additions
are excluded.
*Electric Vehicle Charging for New Construction.
Single Family, Duplex, and Townhouse: For new single-family, 
duplex, and townhouse, install electric vehicle
charging wiring and panels per the requirements of SMMC 
23.70.030.
Multifamily dwelling: New Multifamily, install electric vehicle charging 
wiring and panels per SMMC 23.24.040:
• Tier 1: 15 percent of the total number of parking spaces on a 
building site, provided for all types of
parking facilities, but in no case less than one, shall be electric 
vehicle charging spaces (EV spaces)
capable of supporting future electric vehicle supply equipment 
(EVSE). Calculations for required
number of EV spaces shall be rounded up to the nearest whole 
number.
• All EV space design requirements shall be follow under SMMC 
23.70.060.
Yes
Yes
Sheet 
A6.0
ENVIRONMENTAL 
ꢁUALITY
Fireplaces. Any gas fireplaces shall be a direct-vent sealed-
combustible type.
Woodstoves. Any wood stove or pellet stove shall comply with US 
EPA New Source Performance Standards
emission limits per CGC 4.503.1.
Responsible Designerꢃs 
Declaration Statement
I hereby certify that this project has been designed to meet the requirements 
of the 2019 California Green Building Standards
Code.
POLLUTANT CONTROL 
(CGC 4.504)
Duct and mechanical systems protection. At the time of rough 
installation, during storage on the
construction site and until final startup of the heating, cooling and 
ventilating equipment, all duct and other
related air distribution components openings shall be covered with 
tape, plastic, sheet metals, or other methods
acceptable to the enforcing agency to reduce the amount of water, dust 
or debris, which may enter the system
per CGC 4.504.1.
Finish material pollutant control. Finish materials shall comply with 
Sections 4.504.2.1 through 4.504.5.1.
Adhesives, sealants and caulks. Adhesives, sealants and caulks used 
on the project shall meet the
requirements of the standards listed in CGC 4.504.2.1.
Paints and coatings. Paints and coatings shall comply with VOC limits 
per CGC 4.504.2.2.
Aerosol paints and coatings. Aerosol paints and coatings shall meet 
the Product-weighted MIR limits for ROC and
other requirements per CGC 4.504.2.3.
Verification. Documentation will be provided, at the request of the 
Building Division, to verify compliance
with VOC finish materials per CGC 4.504.2.4.
JSD Architecture 
+ Designs
Nam
e:
Jessica 
Sin
Compa
ny:
Yes
Yes
Signatu
re:
Date:
Address: 
1328 Ebener Street, 
Redwood City, CA 94061
City/St/Zip
June 13, 
2022
Yes
Yes
ENERGY 
EFFICIENCY
LOCAL & CA 
ENERGY CODE
Yes
Yes
Yes
New low-rise residential Solar Installation: For new low-rise 
residential buildings, including single family,
duplexes, etc, see Section 150.1.(c),14 of the 2019 California 
Energy Code, Equation 150.1-C.
* Local amendment for mandatory solar installations (SMMC 
23.24.030).
New High-Rise Residential Building: For new high-rise residential 
building (4 stories or more) shall provide a
minimum of a 3-kilowatt photovoltaic system.
Carpet systems. All carpet installed in the building interior shall 
meet the testing and product requirement per
CGC 4.504.3. Carpet cushion and adhesive also must comply.
Resilient flooring systems. 80% of flooring must comply with one of the 
following: the VOC-emission limits
defined in the 2012 CHPS criteria and listed on its High-Performance 
Products Database; products certified under
UL Greenguard Gold program; certified under the Resilient Floor 
Covering Institute FloorScore program; or meet
California Department of Public Health 2010 Specifications per CGC 
4.504.4.
Composite wood products. Hardwood plywood, particleboard and 
medium density fiberboard composite wood
products used on the interior and exterior of the building shall comply 
with the low formaldehyde emission
standards per CGC 4.504.5.
Yes
Yes
WATER EFFICIENCY AND 
CONSERVATION
INDOOR WATER USE (CGC 4.303)
Water conserving plumbing fixtures. Plumbing fixtures (Water 
closets and urinals) shall comply with the
following:
Yes
Sheet 
A2.2
1. The effective flush volume of all water closets shall not exceed 
1.28 gal/flush (CGC 403.1.1).
2. The effective flush volume of wall-mounted urinals shall not 
exceed 0.125 gal/flush. The effective flush
volume for all other urinals shall not exceed 0.5 gal/flush. 
(CGC 403.1.2).
Documentation. Verification of compliance with this section shall be 
provided at the request of the enforcing
agency.
Building Division (650) 522-7172 ꢀ Code Enforcement 
Division (650) 522-7150
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 ꢀ Planning Division (650) 
522-7212 ꢀ General (650) 522-7200
Building Division (650) 522-7172 ꢀ Code Enforcement 
Division (650) 522-7150
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 ꢀ Planning Division (650) 
522-7212 ꢀ General (650) 522-7200
Building Division (650) 522-7172 ꢀ Code Enforcement 
Division (650) 522-7150
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 ꢀ Planning Division (650) 
522-7212 ꢀ General (650) 522-7200
Revised: 
6/19/2020
Page 1 
of 3
Revised: 
6/19/2020
Page 2 
of 3
Revised: 
6/19/2020
Page 3 
of 3
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
1A0
.2
CALGREEN 
CHECKLIST

--- page 36 ---
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
1A0
.3
ARBORIST 
REPORT

--- page 37 ---
EXISTING 
FRONT VIEW
PROPOSED 
FRONT VIEW
1
2
NOT TO 
SCALE
NOT TO 
SCALE
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
1A0
.4
EXISTING & 
PROPOSED
EXTERIOR 
VIEWS

--- page 38 ---
FLOOR AREA 
CALCULATION
C
D
ARE
A
A
SF
±404 
SF
B
C
±211 
SF
±144 
SF
F
D
E
F
±242 
SF
±37 
SF
±55 
SF
±79 
SF
±91 
SF
±51 
SF
±31 
SF
±295 
SF
±140 
SF
G
H
J
B
E
G
H
L
K
L
FP
M
J
TKL-
WH
E-
SUB
K
D
W
EXISTING 
FLOOR AREA:
(E) HOUSE
F
M
B + C + D + E+ F + G + 
H + J + K + L =
±1,236 
SF
(E) 
GARAG
EA =
±404 
SF
TOTAL (E) 
FLOOR AREA =
±1,640 
SF
A
EXISTING /LOT 
COVERAGE:
(E) 
HOUSE
B + C + D + E+ F + G + 
H + J + K + L =
±1,236 
SF
±404 
SF
(E) 
GARAG
EA =
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
(E) COVERED 
PORCH:
M =
(-) ±140 
SF
±1,780 
SF
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
TOTAL EXISTING LOT 
COVERAGE:
±
1
5'
-
1
2
"
EXISTING FLOOR AREA 
CALCULATIONS
EXISTING FLOOR 
AREA DIAGRAM
1
1
0
3
6
2
1
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
1A0
.5
EXISTING FLOOR 
AREA
DIAGRAM AND 
CALCULATIONS

--- page 39 ---
FLOOR AREA 
CALCULATION
ARE
A
A
SF
±404 
SF
C
D
B
C
±211 
SF
±144 
SF
D
E
F
±242 
SF
±37 
SF
±55 
SF
±79 
SF
±91 
SF
±51 
SF
±31 
SF
±295 
SF
±344 
SF
±99 
SF
±309 
SF
±29 
SF
±49 
SF
±73 
SF
±106 
SF
R
F
G
H
J
U
S
K
L
G
B
E
G
H
L
N
P
Q
R
S
T
T
J
K
D
W
U
Q
N
P
EXISTING 
FLOOR AREA:
(E) HOUSE
A
B + C + D + E+ F + G + 
H + J + K + L=
±1,236 
SF
(E) 
GARAG
EA =
±404 
SF
TOTAL (E) 
FLOOR AREA =
PROPOSED 
FLOOR AREA:
±1,640 
SF
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
FIRST FLOOR 
ADDITION
N =
±344 
SF
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
SECOND FLOOR 
ADDITIONS
Q + R + S + T + U 
=
±566 
SF
±910 
SF
±2,550 
SF
TOTAL 
ADDITIONS =
TOTAL PROPOSED 
FLOOR AREA =
PROPOSED FIRST FLOOR 
AREA DIAGRAM
PROPOSED SECOND 
FLOOR AREA DIAGRAM
1
1
0
3
6
0
3
6
1
2
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
PROPOSED FLOOR AREA 
CALCULATIONS
1 3
1A0
.6
PROPOSED 1ST & 
2ND FLOOR
AREA DIAGRAM & 
CALCULATIONS

--- page 40 ---
3
±70'-
9
"
"
4
4
(E) OAK 
TREE
TO BE 
REMOVED
(E) ±4'-4" 
CONCRETE
RETAINING 
WALL
(N) PRIVACY 
HEDGES
(E) 
SANITAR
Y
SEWER
CLEANO
UT
(E) ±6'-0"
WOOD 
FENCE
(E) 
SANITAR
Y
SEWER
CLEANO
UT
(E) ±6'-0"
WOOD 
FENCE
NEIGHBO
RING
NEIGHBO
RING
SHED
SHE
D
PROPERTY 
LINE
PROPERTY 
LINE
X
(E) SHED 
TO
BE 
DEMO
3
±12'-
9
"4
WALKW
AY
WALKW
AY
(E) ±4'-9" 
CONCRETE
RETAINING 
WALL
3
(E) ±4'-9" 
CONCRETE
RETAINING 
WALL
±12'-
9
"4
(E) ±6'-0" 
WOOD
FENCE
(E) ±6'-0" 
WOOD
FENCE
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
(E) 
SKYLIGH
T
TO 
REMAIN
(E) 
SKYLIGH
T
TO BE 
DEMO
(E) 
SKYLIGH
T
TO 
REMAIN
WOOD 
PATIO
±1'-
4"
WOOD 
PATIO
(E) 
DS
(N) 
DS
(E) 
DS
±8"
(N) 
SKYLIGH
T
LINE
N
(E) 
SK
(E) 
SK
DN
±1'-
4"
±1'-
4"
(E) 
SK
(E) MAIN 
HOUSE
(N) 
DS
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
F
NEIGHBO
RING
HOUSE
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
(N) 
SK
ATTI
C
±8"
±1'-
4"
±1'-
4"
NEIGHBO
RING
HOUSE
±2'-
6"
(E) MAIN 
HOUSE
DRESS
ER
DRESS
ER
(E) 
DS
3
3
(E) 
CHIMNEY
TO BE 
DEMO
±8"
±10'-
8
"
±10'-
8
"
4
NEIGHBO
RING
HOUSE
4
NEIGHBO
RING
HOUSE
(E) 
GARAGE
(E) 
GARAGE
(E) ±6'-0" 
WOOD
FENCE
(E) ±6'-0" 
WOOD
FENCE
(N) 
DS
(N) 
DS
WALKW
AY
(E) ±4'-9" 
CONCRETE
RETAINING 
WALL
(E) 
DS
(E) ±4'-9" 
CONCRETE
RETAINING 
WALL
(E) 
DS
(E) 
FRONT
PORC
H
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
WALKW
AY
(E) ±4'-0" 
ROCK
RETAINING 
WALL
(N) 
ADDITION
SHOWN 
SHADED
(E) ±5'-0" 
WOOD
FENCE
(E) ±5'-0" 
WOOD
FENCE
LAWN 
AREA
(E) ±4'-0" 
ROCK
RETAINING 
WALL
(E) GAS 
METER
(E) GAS 
METER
DRIVEW
AY
(PAVER
S)
DRIVEW
AY
(PAVER
S)
(E) 
ELECTRIC
AL
METER
(E) 
ELECTRIC
AL
METER
±62'-
0"
WM
WM
SIDEW
ALK
SIDEW
ALK
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
(E) WATER 
METER
(E) WATER 
METER
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
GREENFIELD 
AVENUE
GREENFIELD 
AVENUE
EXISTING 
SITE PLAN
PROPOSED 
SITE PLAN
2 1
2 1
2 1
0
4
8
0
4
8
1
2
A1
.0
Scale: 1/8" 
= 1'-0"
Scale: 1/8" 
= 1'-0"
1
NOT
E:
1. ALL NEW ROOF 
DRAINAGE WILL BE
DIRECTED TO LANDSCAPED 
AREAS TO THE
EXTENT FEASIBLE AND NOT 
ONTO
ADJACENT PROPERTIES.
EXISTING & 
PROPOSED
SITE PLAN

--- page 41 ---
(E) 
COMPOSITION
ROOFING TO 
BE DEMO
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
±1'-
4"
±1'-
4"
(E) SKYLIGHT TO 
BE DEMO
AND RE-
INSTALLED
(E) 
DS
(E) 
COMPOSITION
ROOFING TO 
BE DEMO
(E) 
SK
(E) 
SK
(E) SKYLIGHT 
TO DEMO
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
±1'-
4"
(E) 
DS
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
(E) 
DS
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
EXISTING 
ROOF AREA
(E) 
ROOF =
±2,041 
SF
(E) ROOF TO 
DEMO =
±2,041 SF 
(100%)
NOT
E:
ALL ROOF TO BE REPLACED 
WITH METAL ROOF
EXISTING ROOF PLAN 
/ DEMO PLAN
1
1
0
3
6
1
A1
.1
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
EXISTING 
ROOF PLAN /
DEMO 
PLAN

--- page 42 ---
(N) ±2:12 
METAL ROOF
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
±1'-
4"
±1'-
4"
(E) SKYLIGHT TO 
BE DEMO
AND RE-
INSTALLED
(N) 
DS
(E) 
DS
±0'-
8"
LINE
N
(N) ±2:12 
METAL ROOF
(E) 
SK
(N) ±4:12 
METAL ROOF
(N) SKYLIGHT
(N) 
DS
(E) 
DS
F
(E) 
DS
(N) 
SK
ATTI
C
±0'-
8"
DRESS
ER
(E) 
DS
±0'-
8"
NEW 
ADDITION
SHOWN 
HATCHED
±1'-
4"
QUEEN 
SIZE BED
(N) 
DS
(N) 
DS
NEW 
ADDITION
SHOWN 
HATCHED
(E) 
DS
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
(E) 
DS
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
ROOF
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
PROPOSED 
ROOF PLAN
0
3
6
1
A1
.2
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
PROPOSED 
ROOF PLAN

--- page 43 ---
NEIGHBO
RING
HOUSE
WINDO
W
WINDO
W
PROPOSED 
FROSTED
GLASS 
WINDOWS
WINDO
W
PROPOSED TALL 
HEDGES
FOR PRIVACY
NEIGHB
OR
BACKYA
RD
REAR 
NEIGHBOR
BACKYAR
D
BACKY
ARD
(N) PRIVACY 
HEDGES
(E) ±6'-0" WALL 
FENCE
NEIGHBO
RING
SHED
PRIVACY 
DIAGRAM 
SECTION
1
0
4
8
2
Scale: 1/8" 
= 1'-0"
2
BACKYA
RD
HEDGES SPECIES FOR 
SELECTION:
·····
EMERALD GREEN 
ARBORVITAE
PODOCARPUS
INDIAN LAUREL 
COLUMN
CAROLINA CHERRY
CYPRESS
(N) 
WDWS
LANDI
NG
BAT
H
WINDO
W
HAL
L
CLOS
ET
NEIGHBO
RING
HOUSE
WINDO
W
NEIGHBO
RING
HOUSE
(N) 
WDW
(N) 
WDW
(N) 
WDW
PRIMARY 
BED
WINDO
W
WINDO
W
(N) 
WDW
(N) 
WDW
(N) 
WDW
DRIVEW
AY
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
WM
1A1
.3
PROPOSED SITE PLAN / ADJACENT 
PROPERTIES WINDOWS
1
0
4
8
1
Scale: 1/8" 
= 1'-0"
PROPOSED SITE 
PLAN /
ADJACENT 
PROPERTIES 
WINDOWS

--- page 44 ---
(E) 
82
(E) 
284
(E) 
91
(N) 
569
(E) 
653
(E) 
653
(E) 
384
(E) 
385
(E) 
127
LINE
N
DN
(E) 
127
EXISTING PERVIOUS 
AREA:
(E) PERVIOUS AREA 
= ±2,582 SF
PROPOSED 
PERVIOUS AREA:
(N) PERVIOUS AREA 
= ±2,527 SF
F
ATTI
C
ESSE
R
DRESS
ER
LEGE
ND:
(E) 
46
(E) 
91
LANDSCAPE 
AREA
(E) 
46
PAVED 
AREA
(E) 
7
(E) 
915
WOODEN 
AREA
WOODEN 
FENCE
RETAINING 
WALL
(N) 
740
(E) 
590
(E) 
724
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
EXISTING SITE 
PERVIOUS DIAGRAM
PROPOSED SITE 
PERVIOUS DIAGRAM
1
2 1
0
3
6
0
3
6
1
2
Scale: 1/8" 
= 1'-0"
Scale: 1/8" 
= 1'-0"
1A1
.4
EXISTING & 
PROPOSED SITE
PERVIOUS 
DIAGRAM & CALCS

--- page 45 ---
DRAINAGE CALCULATION FOR STORM 
WATER RUN-OFF CONTROL
RUN-OFF 
COEFFICIENT
(N ROOF)
RUN-OFF 
COEFFICIENT
(E LAWN)
TOTAL-
RUN OFF
COEFFICI
ENT
(N) IMPREVIOUS 
AREA (SF)
443
(E) WOOD 
FENCE
NEIGHBO
RING
SHED
0.95
0
0.30
0
0.65
0
PROPERTY 
LINE
DISCHARGE RATE ADDITIONAL (TIME OF CONCENTRATION OF 10 
MINUTES, INTENSITY FOR 10 YEARS STORM)
GRAS
S
AREA 
(SF)
443
SF TO 
ACRE
0.0101
7
FACTOR 
(INTENSITY)
1.750
RUN-OFF 
COEFFICIENT
0.650
TOTAL 
(CFS)
0.012
(E) SANITARY 
SEWER
CLEAN OUT
(E) WOOD 
FENCE
(E) 
WALKWA
Y
(E) +/-4'-9" 
CONCRETE
RETAINING 
WALL
STORAGE DETENTION 
VOLUME (10 MINUTES)
ROCK
S
(E) WOOD 
DECK
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
CF
S
FACT
OR
1.500
0
MINUT
ES
10
SECONDS PER 
MINUTE
60
TOTAL 
(CF)
10.411
0.01
2
(E) 
WALKWA
Y
NEW ADDITION 
ROOF AREA:
(E) 
DS
(N) 
DS
LINE
N
(N) ADDITION 
LENGTH -A
(N) ADDITION 
WIDTH - B
= 26.06 
FT.
= 17 
FT.
DN
A (26.06 FT.) x 
B (17 FT.)
TOTAL 
ADDITION
= 443.02 
SF.
= 443.02 
SF
(E) 
ROOF
(N) 
DS
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
F
NEIGHBO
RING
HOUSE
ATTI
C
(E) 
DS
DRESS
ER
DRESS
ER
3
±26'-
0
"
STORM WATER 
RETENTION SYSTEM
4
NEIGHBO
RING
HOUSE
A
LAWN / GRASS / VEGETATED AREA 
DETENTION FOR INFILTRATION
WALKW
AY
ROCKS
CF
FACTO
R %
0.4000
TOTAL 
(CF)
(E) 
GARAGE
(N) 
DS
(N) 
DS
10.4
11
26.0
28
CF
FEET 
(FACTOR)
TOTAL 
(SF)
AREA 
OF
DETENTI
ON:
26.0
28
2
13.0
14
(E) 
DS
(E) 
DS
NOTE: MAXIMUM DEPTH OF BED IS LIMITED AT 2 FEET 
AND BED MUST BE KEPT 5 FEET
MINIMUM AWAY FROM NEAREST PROPERTY LINE 
AND ANY TREE
WALKW
AY
(E) 
LAWN
±5'-0"
(N) 
ADDITION
SHOWN 
SHADED
(E) 
ROCK
RETAINI
NG
WALL
DIR
T
DRAINAGE 
CALCULATIONS
1
DRIVEW
AY
(PAVER
S)
TO CURB 
DRAIN
2
(E) DIRT 
STRIP
LAWN 
DETENTION 
AREA
±3'-
0"
WM
SIDEW
ALK
A
A
(E) WATER 
METER
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
GREENFIELD 
AVENUE
LAWN / GRASS / 
VEGETATED AREA DETAIL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
1 3
GRADING AND 
DRAINAGE PLAN
1
0
4
8
1
Scale: 1/8" 
= 1'-0"
1A1
.5
CURB DRAIN 
DETAIL
1 4
GRADING AND 
DRAINAGE PLAN

--- page 46 ---
1/A3
.1
WALL 
CALCULATIO
N
ARE
A
A
LF
M. 
BATH
M. 
CL.
(E) WALLS, DOORS, 
WINDOWS AND
FIXTURES SHOWN 
DASHED TO BE DEMO
MASTE
R
BEDRO
OM
±12.73 
LF
BEDRO
OM 2
B
C
±8.89 
LF
F
±14.14 
LF
CL
.
D
E
F
±6.49 
LF
±6.96 
LF
±6.20 
LF
±8.74 
LF
BATH 
2
(E) 
SK
DINI
NG
ROO
M
H
(E) 
SK
LIVING 
ROOM
E
TOTAL EXISTING 
EXTERIOR WALL =
±166 
LF
TOTAL EXTERIOR WALL 
TO BE DEMO
A + B + C + D + E + F =
BEDRO
OM 3
OFFICE
±55.41 LF 
(33%)
±8.74 LF
FP
INTERIOR WALL 
TO BE DEMO
H =
H
KITCH
EN
ENT
RY
TOTAL WALL 
PROPOSED FOR DEMO
55.41 + 8.74 =
±64.15 
LF
D
TKL-
WH
E-
SUB
D
W
B
C
(E)
ATTI
C
NOT
E:
F
COVERED 
PORCH
EXISTING EXTERIOR WALLS THAT 
ARE CONVERTED TO
INTERIOR WALLS SHALL BE 
COUNTED AS WALLS TO BE
DEMOLISHED. DOORS, INCLUDING 
GARAGE DOORS, ENTRY
DOORS, AND SLIDING GLASS DOORS, 
SHALL NOT BE
INCLUDED IN THE PERCENTAGE 
CALCULATION OF AN
EXISTING STRUCTURE'S EXTERIOR 
WALLS.
A
GARA
GE
W A L L 
K E Y
EXISTING WALL 
TO REMAIN
EXISTING 
WALL/WINDOW TO 
REMOVE
EXTERIOR WALL TO BE 
DEMO
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
1/A3
.0
EXISTING FLOOR 
PLAN / DEMO PLAN
A2
.0
0
3
6
1
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
EXISTING 
FLOOR PLAN

--- page 47 ---
1/A3
.3
A
±10'-2 
3/4"
±12'-7 
3/4"
±5'-
2"
E
G
F
1/A3
.3
BATH 
3
M. 
CL.
A
BEDRO
OM 2
BEDRO
OM 4
±6'-
7"
V
±3'-
6"
U
±12'-
7"
S
±170'-
0"
R
2
T
CL
.
LINE
N
M
±6'-
7"
±4'-
4"
B
B
B
M.BA
TH
B
BATH 
2
DINI
NG
UP
DN
(VAULT
ED
CEILIN
G)
(E) 
SK
H
HAL
L
D
M.CL
O.
PANT
RY
±2'-8"
±2'-
3"
(N)
ATTI
C
F
±4'-8 
1/2"
OFFICE 
/
BEDRO
OM 3
ATTI
C
Z
J
STO./
IT
LIVIN
G
F
±10'-
4"
R
±2'-
0"
DRESS
ER
DRESS
ER
MU
D
±176'-
0"
Q
W
C
±2'-8 
3/4"
TKL-
WH
E-
SUB
PRIMA
RY
BEDRO
OM
4'-0" x 
8'-6"
D
W
(VAULT
ED
CEILIN
G)
TV
±3'-
6"
QUEEN 
SIZE BED
TV
3
KITCH
EN
ISLA
ND
MIRR
.
GARA
GE
X
P
DES
K
Y
N
B
ENT
RY
K
±21'-
0"
SECO
ND
FLOOR 
LINE
DW
A
1/A3
.2
L
1
A
±9'-
11"
±14'-9 
1/2"
COVERED 
PORCH
A
4
±17'-1 
3/4"
1/A3
.2
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PROPOSED FIRST 
FLOOR PLAN
PROPOSED SECOND 
FLOOR PLAN
0
3
6
0
3
6
1
2
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
G E N E R A L 
N O T E S
A. ALL DIMENSIONS ARE TO 
THE FACE OF
STUD UNLESS NOTED 
OTHERWISEFINISH 
DIMENSIONS
NOTED w/ 
ARROWS
.
.
FACE OF 
STUD
DIMENSIO
NS
A2
.1
W A L L 
K E Y
EXISTING WALL 
TO REMAIN
NEW 
WALL
NEW ADDITION 
SHOWN HATCH
PROPOSED FIRST 
& SECOND
FLOOR PLAN

--- page 48 ---
EXTERIOR DOOR 
SCHEDULE
WINDOW AND 
SKYLIGHT SCHEDULE
PLEASE CONFIRM SIZING AND DETAILS WITH 
CONTRACTOR AND CLIENT PRIOR TO ORDERING
PLEASE NOTE THAT SIZES SHOWN ARE NOT ROUGH 
OPENING SIZES.
CONTRACTOR TO FRAME OPENINGS WITH FINAL DOOR 
ORDERS' ROUGH OPENING SIZES.
PLEASE CONFIRM SIZING AND DETAILS WITH 
CONTRACTOR AND CLIENT PRIOR TO ORDERING
PLEASE NOTE THAT 
SIZES SHOWN ARE
NO
T
ROUGH 
OPENING 
SIZES.
CONTRACTOR TO FRAME OPENINGS WITH FINAL WINDOW AND 
SKYLIGHT ORDERS' ROUGH OPENING SIZES.
WIDT
H X
DOO
R #
LOCATI
ON
ENTRY
TYP
E
NOT
ES
WINDOW # 
WIDTH X HEIGHT
LOCATI
ON
LIVING 
ROOM
LIVING 
ROOM
LIVING 
ROOM
DINING
TYP
E
NOT
ES
HEIG
HT
3'-0" X 
6'-8"
(N) ENTRY 
DOOR
1
2
(N) (2) EQ. 3'-0" 
WINDOWS
(N) (2) EQ. 3'-0" 
WINDOWS
(N) (2) EQ. 3'-0" 
WINDOWS
(N) (2) EQ. 3'-0" 
WINDOWS
(E) WINDOW TO 
REMAIN
(E) WINDOW TO 
REMAIN
(E) WINDOW TO 
REMAIN
(E) WINDOW TO 
REMAIN
6'-0" X 
5'-0"
6'-0" X 
5'-0"
CASEM
ENT
CASEM
ENT
CASEM
ENT
CASEM
ENT
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
(N) SLIDING 
DOOR
FIXED/OPERABLE/OPE
RABLE/FIXED
12'-0" X 6'-8" 
DINING
±3'-0" X 6'-8" 
GARAGE
±16'-0" X 7'-0" 
GARAGE
TEMPE
RED
3
4
(E) DOOR TO 
REMAIN
(N) GARAGE 
DOOR
6'-0" X 
5'-0"
6'-0" X 
5'-0"
±2'-10 41" X 
1'-10"
±3'-10" X 3'-
10 1/4"
±3'-10" X 3'-
10 1/4"
±2'-9" X 1'-
10"
NOT 
USED
BATH 
1
DOOR 
SCHEDULE
1
BEDRO
OM 1
BEDRO
OM 2
BATH 2
NOT TO 
SCALE
±4'-6 1/4" X 
3'-1"
±6'-10 1/2" X 
1'-10 1/4"
5'-0" X 3'-0"
BEDRO
OM 3
GARAG
E
KITCHE
N
HALL
(E) WINDOW TO 
REMAIN
(E) WINDOW TO 
REMAIN
(N) (2) 2'6" X 3'-0" 
WINDOWS
(E) SKYLIGHT TO 
REMAIN
(N) CASEMENT 
WINDOW
J
K
L
CASEM
ENT
±3'-2" X 
1'-9"
6'-0" X 
5'-6"
M
N
O
P
PRIMA
RY
BEDRO
OM
EGRESS, 
TEMPERED
NOT 
USED
PRIMA
RY
BEDRO
OM
2'-6" X 
5'-0"
(N) CASEMENT 
WINDOW
(N) CASEMENT 
WINDOW
(N) CASEMENT 
WINDOW
(N) (2) 2'6" X 4'-0" 
WINDOWS
(N) (2) 2'6" X 4'-0" 
WINDOWS
(N) WINDOWS
TEMPE
RED
TEMPE
RED
PRIMA
RY
BEDRO
OM
Q
R
S
T
2'-6" X 
5'-0"
2'-0" X 
4'-0"
M.BA
TH
M.BA
TH
M.BA
TH
HALL
FROSTED / 
TEMPERED GLAZING
FROSTED / 
TEMPERED GLAZING
FROSTED / 
TEMPERED GLAZING
FROSTED 
GLAZING
FROSTED 
GLAZING
TEMPERED
2'-0" X 
4'-0"
2'-0" X 
4'-0"
2'-6" X 
4'-0"
U
V
W
X
3'-0" X 
4'-0"
STAI
RS
(N) 
WINDOW
S
PRIMA
RY
BEDRO
OM
2'-6" X 
2'-6"
(N) CASEMENT 
WINDOW
(N) CASEMENT 
WINDOW
(N) CASEMENT 
WINDOW
(N) 
SKYLIGHT
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PRIMA
RY
BEDRO
OM
2'-6" X 
2'-6"
TEMPE
RED
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
PRIMA
RY
BEDRO
OM
6'-0" X 
5'-6"
EGRESS, 
TEMPERED
VELUX 
2234
Y
Z
22 1/2" X 
34 1/2"
INSIDE 
CURB
STAI
RS
WINDOW 
SCHEDULE
2
NOT TO 
SCALE
A2
.2
DOOR & WINDOW 
SCHEDULES

--- page 49 ---
(E) 
COMPOSITION 
ROOF,
TYP. TO BE 
DEMO
(E) CHIMNEY TO 
BE DEMO
T.O. (E) 
PLATE
52.3 T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
51.8 AVE. (E) 
GRADE
(E) GARAGE 
DOOR
TO BE 
REPLACED
(E) WALLS TO 
BE DEMO
(E) EXISTING 
DOOR
TO BE 
DEMO
(E) 
FRONT
PORCH 
TO
BE 
DEMO
(E) 
WINDOW
S
TO BE 
DEMO
EXISTING NORTH 
(FRONT) ELEVATION
1
0
3
6
1
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
(E) 
SKYLIGH
T
TO BE 
DEMO
(E) CHIMNEY TO 
BE DEMO
(E) 
COMPOSITION 
ROOF,
TYP. TO BE 
DEMO
(E) RETAINING 
WALL
T.O. (E) 
PLATE
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
52.3 T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
51.8 AVE. (E) 
GRADE
(E) WOOD 
FENCE
(E) FRONT 
PORCH
TO BE 
DEMO
(E) WOOD 
FENCE
(E) 
WALLS 
TO
REMAIN
(E) 
CONCRET
E
BORDER
EXISTING WEST 
(RIGHT) ELEVATION
1
0
3
6
2
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
1A3
.0
EXISTING 
ELEVATIONS

--- page 50 ---
(E) CHIMNEY TO 
BE DEMO
(E) 
COMPOSITION 
ROOF,
TYP. TO BE 
DEMO
T.O. (E) 
PLATE
52.3 T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
51.8 AVE. (E) 
GRADE
EXISTING SOUTH 
(REAR) ELEVATION
1
0
3
6
1
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
(E) SKYLIGHT TO 
BE DEMO
AND RE-
INSTALLED
(E) CHIMNEY TO 
BE DEMO
(E) 
COMPOSITION 
ROOF,
TYP. TO BE 
DEMO
T.O. (E) 
PLATE
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
51.8 AVE. (E) 
GRADE
EXISTING EAST 
(LEFT) ELEVATION
1
1
0
3
6
2
A3
.1
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
EXISTING 
ELEVATIONS

--- page 51 ---
(N) SECOND 
FLOOR
ADDITION
(N) ±4:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
DAYLI
GHT
PLA
NE
ALL NEW 
WINDOWS
TO BE 
ALUMINUM
CLAD WOOD 
(TYP.)
T.O. (N) 
PLATE
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
T.O. (E) 
PLATE
HEAD HT. 
(TYP.)
(E) FIRST FLOOR 
CEILING
HEIGHT TO 
REMAIN
52.3 T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
51.8 AVE. (E) 
GRADE
(N) WOOD 
GARAGE DOOR
NEW 
LIMESTONE
TRIM 
AROUND 
THE
FRONT 
PORCH
ARCHES
ALL NEW 
WINDOWS TO BE
ALUMINUM CLAD 
WOOD,
TYP.
(N) SMOOTH 
TEXTURE
STUCCO 
SIDING
(N) ENTRY 
DOOR
SIDE 
PROPERTY 
LINE
PROPOSED NORTH 
(FRONT) ELEVATION
1
0
3
6
1
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
(N) ±4:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
ALL NEW 
WINDOWS
TO BE 
ALUMINUM
CLAD WOOD, 
TYP.
T.O. (N) 
PLATE
HEAD HT. 
(TYP.)
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
ROOF 
(TYP.)
NEW 
LIMESTON
E
TRIM 
AROUND 
THE
FRONT 
PORCH
ARCHES
T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
T.O. (E) 
PLATE
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
HEAD HT. 
(TYP.)
52.3 T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
51.8 AVE. (E) 
GRADE
WINDOW 
MULLIONS
AND 
MUNTINS TO
BE IN WOOD
ADDITION 
EXISTING
(E) 
WALL 
TO
REMAIN
1A3
.2
PROPOSED WEST 
(RIGHT) ELEVATION
1
0
3
6
2
NOT
E:
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
CONTRACTOR TO CONFIRM 
ROOF SLOPE ON SITE.
PROPOSED 
ELEVATIONS

--- page 52 ---
(N) ±4:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.) ALL NEW 
WINDOWS
TO BE 
ALUMINUM
CLAD WOOD, 
TYP.
T.O. (N) 
PLATE
±2'-
0"
TYP
.
±2'-
6"
±3'-
0"
HEAD HT. 
(TYP.)
NEW 
SMOOTH
STUCCO 
SIDING
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
T.O. (E) 
PLATE
HEAD HT. 
(TYP.)
52.3 T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
51.8 AVE. (E) 
GRADE
(E) 
WINDO
W
TO 
REMAIN
(E) FIRST FLOOR 
CEILING
HEIGHT TO 
REMAIN
(N) SLIDING 
DOORS
PROPOSED SOUTH 
(REAR) ELEVATION
1
0
3
6
1
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
(N) ±4:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
(N) 
SKYLIGH
T
WINDOW 
MULLIONS
AND 
MUNTINS TO
BE IN WOOD
(N) SMOOTH 
TEXTURE
STUCO SIDING
T.O. (N) 
PLATE
HEAD HT. 
(TYP.)
(E) SKYLIGHT TO 
BE DEMO
AND RE-
INSTALLED
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
T.O. (E) 
PLATE
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
HEAD HT. 
(TYP.)
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
52.3 T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
51.8 AVE. (E) 
GRADE
(E) 
WINDO
W
TO 
REMAIN
(E) 
WINDO
W
TO 
REMAIN
(E) FIRST 
FLOOR
CEILING 
HEIGHT
TO REMAIN
(E) 
DOOR 
TO
REMAIN
1A3
.3
PROPOSED EAST 
(LEFT) ELEVATION
1
0
3
6
2
NOT
E:
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
CONTRACTOR TO CONFIRM 
ROOF SLOPE ON SITE.
PROPOSED 
ELEVATIONS

--- page 53 ---
(N) ±4:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
T.O. (N) 
PLATE
EXTERIOR 
WALL
PRIMA
RY
BEDRO
OM
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
T.O. (E) 
PLATE
BEDRO
OM
MU
D
KITCH
EN
4
STO./
IT
52.3 T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
51.8 AVE. (E) 
GRADE
SECTIO
N A-A
0
3
6
1
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
(N) ±4:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
T.O. (N) 
PLATE
EXTERIOR 
WALL
(N) ±2:12 
METAL
ROOF 
(TYP.)
M. 
BATH
HAL
L
T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
T.O. (E) 
PLATE
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
±1'-
6"
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
DINI
NG
HAL
L
BATH 
2
52.3 T.O. FIN. 
FLOOR
51.8 AVE. (E) 
GRADE
A4
.0
SECTIO
N B-B
0
3
6
2
Scale: 1/4" 
= 1'-0"
SECTIONS 
AND
DETAIL
S

--- page 54 ---
STREETSCAPE 
FRONT ELEVATION
0
3
6
1
Scale: 1/8" 
= 1'-0"
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
A4
.1
STREETSCAPE 
ELEVATIONS

--- page 55 ---
VIEW 1 FROM THE 
LIVING ROOM
VIEW 2 FROM THE 
LIVING ROOM
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
VIEW 3 FROM THE 
LIVING ROOM
VIEW 4 FROM 
THE KITCHEN
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
PROPOSED 
INTERIOR VIEWS
1
NOT TO 
SCALE
A5
.0
PROPOSED 
INTERIOR VIEWS

--- page 56 ---
2
1
DEC. 20, 
2022
OCT. 1, 
2022
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
PLANNING 
RESUBMITTAL
JUNE 13, 
2022
PLANNING 
SUBMITTAL
A6
.0
BM
P

--- page 57 ---
GRAPHIC SCALE ABBREVIATIONS
AC ASPHALT

0 4 8 16 32
Bw BACK OF WALK
TC TOP OF CURB
set ) FL FLOW LINE
= 86 ft. 7.0.W. TOP OF WALL
42909 SSMH SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
10-18-2021 PLULE PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT

\

Buitting
LEGEND A ~~
® FOUND POINT IN’ MONUMENT CASTING (AS NOTED) | AK
FOUND CUT CROSS “e $19°31'07"W | Wh
}

FOUND POINT AS NOTED 26" i 80.00 |
= = a Ole

RECORD DATA / REFERENCE | ——— : 450
- : 7 r Le

—= %S

TS

i)
i

WATER METER OR WATER VALVE BOX

FIRE HYDRANT

tereom ‘TREE ~ TRUNK DIAMETER IN INCHES
io) TREE SPECIES IDENTIFICATION: BEST EFFORT,
WE ARE NOT ARBORISTS OR DENDROLOGISTS

@"? 27 8 mK TREE WITH MULTIPLE TRUNKS

TREE DRIP LINE POINTS TOWARDS TREE
TRUNKS. TREE DRIP LINES ABOVE
PROPERTY LOCATED AS SHOWN.

vat TOP OF CURB

Trunk {

x FENCE

OVERHEAD WIRES

)

POWER POLE a
S73°'S9 10°F
SPOT ELEVATION 70.82’

JTFIAINIIAO

¢

|

SANITARY SEWER CLEAN OUT
e

leno
Cae
a

7B Galler

WATER VALVE

NY

IRRIGATION VALVE BOX

~ Rolled Cone Cai

POLE ANCHOR ’ omc SieN

TOP OR TOE OF SLOPE a
Cone:

dd i
ELEC MET Pavers i ‘
io 1 | !
| ot AN 406" L=62.00' R=560.00'
— ee! | 0=6'20'36"

s1310°31"w_) ;
80.00" [rere

NOTES BG,

ALL DISTANCES AND DIMENSIONS ARE IN FEET AND DECIMALS. Building

BOUNDARY AND
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
329 GREENFIELD AVE.

SAN MATEO

APN: 042-214-030

LOT 16, BLOCK 26, 24 MAPS 62
LOT AREA: 5,268 SQ. FT.

“101% ==
Tone. Siewane
26'00'00"

TOP OF ROOF

or ss Some
D.

L=240.51, R=530.00

BOUNDARY CONTROL: SEE CONCURRENT CORNER RECORD
BOUNDARY CONTROL: SEE CONCURRENT RECORD OF SURVEY MAP

UNDERGROUND UTILITY - LOCATION IS BASED ON SURFACE EVIDENCE.

BUILDING LOCATION DIMENSIONS ARE MEASURED PERPENDICULAR OR RADIAL TO THE
PROPERTY LINES.

DIMENSIONS TO THE BUILDING ARE TAKEN AT THE EXTERIOR FINISHED SURFACE.
THE BUILDING EXTERIOR FINISHED SURFACE IS STUCCO AND VARIES APPROXIMATELY
0.06'-0.10" IN THICKNESS.

FINISH FLOOR ELEVATION TAKEN AT DOOR THRESHOLD (EXTERIOR).
BENCHMARK: ASSUMED DATUM, POINT AS SHOWN

EXISTING HARDSCAPE is NOT SHOWN ON THIS SURVEY.
THIS IS A PARTIAL TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY — BUILDINGS AND FENCES ONLY

A BOUNDARY SURVEY WAS PERFORMED TO ACCURATELY LOCATE THE LEGAL PROPERTY
LINES IN RELATION TO THE EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS (BUILDING)
| lA CASA AVE.

‘A CURRENT TITLE REPORT FOR THE SUBJECT PROPERTY HAS NOT BEEN EXAMINED |
BY L. WADE HAMMOND LAND SURVEYOR. EASEMENTS OF RECORD MAY EXIST THAT ARE i |
NOT SHOWN ON THIS MAP. L W. d H d
TREE SPECIES IDENTIFICATION: BEST EFFORT, WE ARE NOT ARBORISTS OR \ . ade ammon
DENDROLOGISTS. \ Land Surveying
TREES SHOWN ARE 6” TRUNK DIAMETER OR LARGER, MEASURED 5” ABOVE GRADE | Civil Engineering

| { 36660 Newark Blvd. Suite C

Newark, California 94560
Tel: (510)579-6112
wade@whlandsurveyor.com www.wadehammondpls.com



--- page 58 ---
ATT 6 – PROJECT DATA SHEET 
NAME: 329 Greenfield Ave., 
SFDDR 
PA: 2022-051 
ADDRESS: 329 Greenfield Ave. 
LOT AREA:  5,268 sf 
ZONING: R1-C 
APN: 042-214-030 
FLOOR AREA 
EXISTING SF 
House: 
1,236 
Garage (detached): 
404 
Shed: 
106 
Front Porch:  
140 
SUBTOTAL:  
1,786 
TOTAL (minus exemptions): 
PROPOSED SF 
 
2,146 
 
404 
 
0 
 
991 
 
2,649 
 
2,550 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
 
 
 
 
 
2,634 
F.A.R.: = 0.50 * area < 6,000 sf 
0.48 
0.50 
BUILDING HEIGHT: 
Height to plate (24 ft. max): 
Height to peak (32 ft. max): 
Daylight Plane: 
PROPOSED 
18 ft. 9 ½ in. 
22 ft. 10 ¾ in. 
Compliant 
 
24 ft. 
32 ft. 
12 ft., 45 Degrees 
STORIES: 1 (existing) 
2 
N/A 
UNITS: 1 (existing) 
1 
1 + ADU + JADU 
SETBACKS: 
EXISTING 
Front:  
 33 ft. 11 ¼ in. 
Front (garage):  14 ft. ½ in. 
Left Side:  
      8 ft. 5 ¼ in.  
Right Side:      10 ft. 8 ¾ in.  
1st Story Rear: 12 ft. 3 ¾ in.  
2nd Story Rear: 25 ft.  
PROPOSED 
20 ft. 9 in. 
14 ft. ½ in. 
8 ft. 5 ¼ in. 
10 ft. ½ in. 
12 ft. 3 ¾ in. 
25 ft.  
 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
 
15 ft. 
20 ft. 
5 ft. 
5 ft. 
15 ft. 
25 ft.  
PARKING 
EXISTING 
Garage:  
2 
 
PROPOSED 
 
2 
 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
2 
LANDSCAPING: 
Removal of Protected Trees 
and other major 
landscaping: 
 
Removing 1 Protected Tree (Coast Live Oak) under Tree Permit # HT-
2022-001393. 
1) SMMC 27.040.200 exempts the first 100 sq. ft. of a covered front porch for single-family dwellings.

--- page 59 ---
From:
Dennis Lee
To:
Kenneth Chou
Subject:
Re: ZA Decision: PA22-051, 329 Greenfield Ave.
Date:
Wednesday, March 8, 2023 8:14:16 AM
Attachments:
image002.png
image010.png
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
image008.png
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
image008.png
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
Hi Kenneth, 
We feel the statements of the error in current decision letter is very misleading. we would like to request a correction
for it. Also we like to request notifying all parties involved about this error as well as the correction.
Thank you.
Dennis 
On Mar 8, 2023, at 7:17 AM, Dennis Lee 
 wrote:
Hi Kenneth, 
What will you do or have done to correct this error, such as notifying all interested parties - the applicant,
owner and/or related city’s departments etc.?
Thank you.
Dennis 
On Mar 8, 2023, at 5:01 AM, Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
The project includes the following conditions of approval which speaks to substantial conformance
with the approved plans. Therefore, we will not be issuing a revised decision letter.

--- page 60 ---
Thank you,
 
<!--[if !vml]--><!--[endif]-->Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Tuesday, March 7, 2023 8:03 AM

--- page 61 ---
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: ZA Decision: PA22-051, 329 Greenfield Ave.
 
Hi Kenneth,
 
Thanks for clarifying. Will this error be corrected or it has already been corrected? 
Is there an updated approval document and change of the approval date?
 
Thank you.
Dennis 
On Mar 7, 2023, at 7:51 AM, Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
That is an error. Based on the approved plans, all five windows are proposed to be
frosted.
 
Best,
 
<!--[if !vml]--><!--[endif]-->Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Monday, March 6, 2023 2:32 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: ZA Decision: PA22-051, 329 Greenfield Ave.
 
Hi Kenneth,
 
Thank you for the notification of the decision. I have a question:
 
Per the window schedule in the latest plan, all five second story rear windows are
“frosted glazing”.  But the approval first page states “The proposed second story rear
windows will be frosted for privacy, with the exception of the window serving the
stairway landing…” that’s new to me. Is it an error? Would you explain?
 
Thank you.
Dennis 
On Mar 3, 2023, at 6:36 AM, Kenneth Chou
<kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Good afternoon Dennis,
 
Please find attached the Zoning Administrator’s Decision, Conditions of
Approval, and final approved plans for PA-2022-051, 329 Greenfield Ave.
This approval by the Zoning Administrator is final unless appealed within
ten (10) calendar days of the date of the approval.

--- page 62 ---
Please let me know if you have any questions.
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with
any attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to
which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and
prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are
hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any
attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in
error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by
return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from
your computer. Thank you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is
addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any
dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If
you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately
by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments
from your computer. Thank you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It
may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the
intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please
notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 63 ---
From:
To:
Kenneth Chou
Subject:
Re: Automatic reply: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
Date:
Friday, February 24, 2023 4:46:52 PM
Attachments:
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
image008.png
image009.png
Hi Kenneth,
I swung by city hall and gave Lisa at the front desk the check in an envelope with your name
and department on it. Lisa said she will put it on your desk.
Thank you again for your time and attention!
You have a great weekend!
Dennis
On Thu, Feb 23, 2023 at 3:03 PM Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
No problem. I will not be in the office tomorrow. However, you can leave it with the front
desk and have it attn to me.
 
Best,
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Thursday, February 23, 2023 2:59 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Automatic reply: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo

--- page 64 ---
Hi Kenneth,
 
Thank you so much for answering my questions. I am planning to bring the check to your
office tomorrow. What would be the good time for you in the afternoon? If you are not
around, may I leave it to the people at the front desk?
 
Thanks,
Dennis 
On Feb 23, 2023, at 2:13 PM, Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
The appeal application should be addressed To: Commission, Planning
Commission. The check should be written to the City of San Mateo.
 
Best,
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Thursday, February 23, 2023 2:08 PM

--- page 65 ---
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Automatic reply: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave.
San Mateo
 
Hi Kenneth,
Thanks for your call and email in answering my questions. Thank you so much
for accommodating us. Much appreciated! Couple questions about the appeal:
1. The addressee of the appeal application. There are 4 selections under the
"To:" header: City Council, Commission, Zoning Administrator and
Other.   What should  I fill in?
2. Who will the check for the appeal be written to? City of San Mateo or
Planning Commission etc.?
I'll do these:
1. Email you our comments by 2/27 5PM
2. Deliver a check of $519 to you by 2/27
3. expect an email from you about the Zoning Administrator's final decision
on the project on or after 2/28
4. Email you our appeal application during the appeal period
Please let me know if I miss anything. Thank you again for your help. Really
appreciate it.
Best,
Dennis
 
On Thu, Feb 23, 2023 at 10:39 AM Kenneth Chou
<kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
The comments should be sent to me by 2/27/2023 5pm through email. An
appeal must be filed within 10 days after the decision letter and conditions of
approval is issued. We are looking to issue the letter on 2/28/2023. Therefore,
the appeal period will be filed between 2/28-3/9. Appeals are typically filed
and paid in person. However, we are willing to accommodate by accepting a
check in advance and you can email me the appeal application during the
appeal period. The fee for appeal is $519.00. In terms of the Planning
Commission meeting, I am targeting either May 9 or May 23. It will be an
evening meeting and both the appellant and applicant will be required to
attend. Please see the application for appeal here.

--- page 66 ---
Please note, the appeal can only be filed after the decision letter is issued and
during the appeal period (2/28-3/9). I will be sending you a copy of the
decision letter when it is issued.
 
Best,  
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Wednesday, February 22, 2023 12:22 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Automatic reply: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave.
San Mateo
 
BTW we want to appeal and would like to know if the city's appeal process
can accommodate our schedule when we are out of town from 2/28 to 3/30.
 
Thank you.
Dennis
 
On Wed, Feb 22, 2023 at 12:13 PM Dennis Lee 
wrote:
Hi Kenneth,
 
Thanks for the update. We have a few questions:

--- page 67 ---
1. Whom should we give our comments to by Feb. 27 5PM? In what
form (email etc)?
2. Would you give me some details of the appeal process and timeline?
3. We have an upcoming overseas trip from 2/28 - 3/30. Can the city
process accommodate our schedule?
Thank you.
Dennis 
 
On Tue, Feb 21, 2023 at 10:29 AM Kenneth Chou
<kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
Thanks for checking in. I just got back from vacation.
 
After speaking with the applicants, they would like to keep the window
as proposed. A noticing postcard for the tentative approval went out on
2/17 and the public comment period will end on 2/27 at 5pm.
 
Best,
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Monday, February 13, 2023 2:43 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Automatic reply: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield
Ave. San Mateo

--- page 68 ---
Hi Kenneth,
Looks like your automatic reply is still on.
Best,
Dennis 
 
On Feb 13, 2023, at 1:29 PM, Kenneth Chou
<kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Thank you for your email. I am out of the office and will be back on December 27,
2022. Please note, City Hall is closed on February 20, 2023 in observance of
Presidents Day. For general inquiries, please contact Planning@cityofsanmateo.org.
For project specific questions, please contact Rendell Bustos at
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This
message, together with any attachments, is intended only for
the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It
may contain information that is confidential and prohibited
from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you
are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have
received this message in error, please notify the original
sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and
delete this message along with any attachments from your
computer. Thank you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message,
together with any attachments, is intended only for the use of the
individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information
that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the
intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or
copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender
immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message
along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together
with any attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity
to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and
prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are
hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any
attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error,
please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail

--- page 69 ---
and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer.
Thank you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together
with any attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to
which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and
prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby
notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is
strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this
message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed.
It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not
the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error,
please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete
this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 70 ---
From: Dennis Lee
To: Kenneth Chou
Subject: Re: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave, San Mateo
Date: Monday, February 13, 2023 1:29:49 PM
Attachments: imaqe002.png

imaae003.ona

image004.pnq

image005,ona

image006,pnq

imaae00?.pna

image009.pnq

imaae010,ona

image0i1.png

image012.ona

image014.pnq

imaae015,ona

image016,pnq

Hi Kenneth.

Hope things are going well with you.

Haven't seen any update on this project since our virtual on 12/21. Just like to check in. At the
virtual meeting. you said you would talk to the applicants about raising the window sill height.
Any update or anything happening?

Thank you.
Dennis Lee


--- page 71 ---
From:

To:

Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

—

Re: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
Thursday, December 15, 2022 11:05:19 AM
image001.pnq

image002.pnq

imaqge003.pnq

image004.pnq

imaqge005.pnq

image006.png

imaqge007.pnq

image008.png

imaqge009.pnq

image010.png

image011.pnq

image012.pnq

image014.pnq

Thank you Kenneth. Invite has been received.

Best,
Dennis

On Thu, Dec 15, 2022 at 8:44 AM Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:

Hi Dennis,

Please accept this calendar invite for our meeting next Wednesday (12/21) at 3PM. The link
and meeting information is below. Look forward to speaking with you.

Kind Regards,

Kenneth Chou Al ##
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.

330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7224 | kchou@citvofsanmateo org

00000



--- page 72 ---
Microsoft Teams meeting
Join on your computer, mobile app or room device
Click here to join the meeting
Meeting ID: 279 742 118 417 
Passcode: zdj8x5
Download Teams | Join on the web
Learn More | Meeting options
__________________________________________________________________________
______
 
 
________________
_________
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Wednesday, December 14, 2022 11:18 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
 
Thank you Kenneth for your availability information. I would like to do virtual on
Wednesday (12/21) 3-4pm. Looking forward to receiving your invite and talking to you next
Wednesday!
 
Best,
Dennis
 
On Wed, Dec 14, 2022 at 9:51 AM Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
Would you prefer to meet in person, or virtually through zoom? We have the following
availability:

--- page 73 ---
Virtual:
Monday (12/19), 3-4pm
 
City Hall or Virtual:
Tuesday (12/20) 3-4pm or 4-5pm
Wednesday (12/21) 3-4pm
 
Let me know which time works best for you and I will follow up with a calendar invite.
 
Best,
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Sunday, December 11, 2022 10:27 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
 
Thank you for the update Kenneth. Yes, I would like to meet you and discuss the issues
we have. Please let me know your availability, preferably in the afternoon.
 
Best,
Dennis

--- page 74 ---
On Thu, Dec 8, 2022 at 4:46 PM Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Dennis,
 
An incomplete letter has been issued to the applicant requesting information on the
species of the proposed hedges to verify the height of the proposed planting when
mature. The plans are a depiction of where and how many hedges are proposed to be
planted. The gaps you see will be filled in by the foliage. As mentioned in my previous
email, privacy hedges combined with frosted window treatments are acceptable
architectural solutions that will mitigate privacy impact. Please also note, when
evaluating privacy impacts and potential solutions, we acknowledge that privacy
impacts are reduced with distance. The second story is setback 25 feet from the rear
property line and more than 50 feet from the neighboring house.
 
Let me know if you would like to set up a meeting to discuss.
 
Best,
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Tuesday, December 6, 2022 10:35 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
 
Hi Kenneth,
We feel the proposed frosted windows and hedges do not address our privacy concerns.
We do not see the applicants follow the city's design guidelines on enhancing
neighboring privacy. We do not see details about the hedges (incomplete?) nor do we

--- page 75 ---
think those hedges will help preserve our privacy.
 
1. The proposed frosted windows:  they only protect the project owner's privacy
but NOT ours. For example: they can close the frosted windows to shower to
protect their own privacy. But the view points are there,  so when the windows
are opened our privacy is invaded overlooking our backyard and our private
living space into our home.
 
2. The proposed hedges: It looks like the proposed 5 windows facing our
property are much higher than the hedges. The plan does not provide details on
the height, diameter and spacing of these hedges (incomplete?). Also there are
big gaps between these hedges in the plan, Through which our privacy is
exposed. It is difficult to see how those  hedges can provide much privacy for us
when those windows on the addition story are so big, so many and much higher
up above the regular 6 foot fence.
 
3. City's Design Guidelines Section 6b states:
Bullet point #1: avoid direct views into neighboring windows or yard
areas
Bullet point #3: manipulation of architectural forms create or enhance
neighboring privacy -- I don't see it in their plan. The applicants have
plenty of architectural solutions to preserve our privacy, high windows,
skylines, clearstory windows ...
Guideline after the bullet points: Design house additions to respect
adjacent neighbor privacy -- the applicants have not addressed this even
though we brought it up a few times!
4. Review due date: We are also surprised that the 30 days review due date is
Dec 8. Seems the resubmittal was already submitted early November and we, as
an interested party, were not informed of the resubmittal until last week. This
sure does not give us much time.

--- page 76 ---
Best,
Dennis Lee
 
On Fri, Dec 2, 2022 at 3:59 PM Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
Hope you had a great thanksgiving as well.
 
The proposed hedges combined with frosted windows are acceptable solutions that
enhance privacy under the design guidelines Section 6a.

--- page 77 ---
As for section 6b, the proposed addition is setback 25 feet from the rear property line
and more than 50 feet from the neighboring house.
 
The setback combined with the landscaping and architectural solutions are acceptable
treatment methods that will minimize privacy impacts.
 
The resubmittal is under review and has a due date of 12/08/2022. I will be reviewing
the materials to see if the application is complete or incomplete. If complete, we will
be moving to the next step which is noticing the project for public comment. If
incomplete, we will be issuing another incomplete letter.
 
Here is a chart outlining the step-by-step process of the application. We are currently
at step 5.

--- page 78 ---
You can continue to provide comments and I would encourage you to discuss with
the homeowners on the design. However, as mentioned, the proposed solutions are
acceptable treatment methods for City review. Additional options are also listed in
the process chart above.
 
Best,
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee

--- page 79 ---
Sent: Thursday, December 1, 2022 1:56 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
 
Hi Kenneth,
Hope you had a wonderful Thanksgiving.
Thank you for sending me a copy of the applicant's resubmittal plan. Sounds like they
resubmitted it in mid November? We feel the resubmission did not fully address our
concerns and the privacy issues identified in the city guidelines, specifically Section
6a and 6b.
We like to understand the resubmission process and have some questions:
1. What is the process and timeline after the resubmission? 
2. What are our options in this process?
Best,
Dennis Lee
 
On Tue, Nov 29, 2022 at 2:45 PM Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
My apologies for the late response as I was out of the office for the last two weeks.
Attached please find the resubmittal plans. They had resubmitted before I went on
vacation, and I hadn’t had a chance to send you a copy. The revised plans include
frosted windows for the proposed second-story addition and new hedges along the
rear property line to address privacy concerns.
 
Let me know if you have any questions.
 
Best,
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

--- page 80 ---
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Monday, November 21, 2022 3:59 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
 
Hi Kenneth,
 
Haven't seen any updates. Just like to check in to see if we miss anything or
anything new on this project. 
 
Also like to know if there is any deadline date for the applicant's resubmission for
the project review?
 
Thank you and you have a great Thanksgiving!
Dennis Lee
 
On Wed, Oct 12, 2022 at 3:01 PM Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
You are included in the interested party list. The applicant has not resubmitted
the project for review, but your concern has been forwarded to the applicant to
be addressed.

--- page 81 ---
Best,
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Wednesday, October 12, 2022 1:10 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
 
Hello Kenneth,
 
Hope things are going well with you. 
Just like to check in to see any update or what's happening on this project.
Also want to make sure I am on the project's interested party list. 
 
Thank you!
Dennis Lee
 
On Mon, Sep 19, 2022 at 2:14 PM Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
wrote:
Hi Dennis,
 
Thank you again for reaching out and providing comments. I understand your
privacy concern and will be working with the applicant on this matter. I will
be forwarding your concerns to the applicant and let you know when I hear

--- page 82 ---
back.
 
Kind regards,
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Monday, September 19, 2022 1:05 PM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
 
Hi Kenneth,
 
Thanks for the update and the latest plans. Really appreciated your prompt
response. We are surprised not to see our comments and privacy concerns
made to the applicants included. Are those in a separate document? We hope
our efforts to provide comments and feedback with the applicants and
architect were not being ignored just like they increased those window sizes
after we raised our concerns on privacy.  
It seems the current plans do not use available architectural solutions to
protect our privacy. In our communications, we even pointed them to the city's
design guidelines(6a, 6b) on privacy (italic):
The placement of a second-story addition on a house can create privacy
impacts on adjacent neighbors. When planning an addition, evaluate how the
location of the second-story on the property may affect privacy by creating
sight lines into adjacent homes.
·  Is the second-story addition located to avoid direct views into

--- page 83 ---
neighboring windows or yard areas? ...
·  Can manipulation of architectural forms create or enhance
neighboring privacy? ...
Our main concern is about the five big windows on the rear wall of the second
story addition overlooking our property, creating direct sight lines to our yard
and private space. The owner once said the windows are merely there to bring
light. If so they have plenty of options to preserve our privacy including
relocating the windows to the other walls, using skylights, raising window sill
to above eye level ...
Thank you again for looking into this matter and planning to work with the
applicant on our privacy concerns. Please keep us posted so we can provide
info as needed.
 
Best.
Dennis Lee
 
 
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with
any attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it
is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any
dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If
you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender
immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with
any attachments from your computer. Thank you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with
any attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is
addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any
dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If
you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender
immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any
attachments from your computer. Thank you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is
addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any
dissemination or copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you

--- page 84 ---
have received this message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by
telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from
your computer. Thank you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is
addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure.
If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or
copying of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this
message in error, please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return
e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank
you.
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any
attachments, is intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed.
It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not
the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this
message or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error,
please notify the original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete
this message along with any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 85 ---
From:
Kenneth Chou
To:
Subject:
RE: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
Date:
Friday, September 16, 2022 1:14:00 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
image003.png
image004.png
image005.png
image006.png
image007.png
329 GREENFIELD AVE Plans.pdf
image008.png
Hi Dennis,
 
Sorry I missed your call yesterday. Confirming that I’ve received your comments below and will be
working with the applicant to address the privacy concerns raised. Attached is a copy of the plans for
the first round of review. Please note, the project is still under review and no approval has been
made.
 
Have a great weekend.
 
Kenneth Chou 周暐喆
Assistant Planner | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7224 | kchou@cityofsanmateo.org
 
 
 
 
 
From: Dennis Lee 
 
Sent: Friday, September 16, 2022 10:24 AM
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Dennis Lee 
Subject: Questions on addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo
 
Hi Kenneth,
 
Want to make sure you have received my email on the addition. I did a followup call yesterday
afternoon and left a message for you. Hope you already got it.
 
I like to see how I can get an update on the project. The citizen self-help portal that you referred me
to does not provide details. We did our parts providing comments/feedback to the applicants. We
do not want our efforts being ignored and wasted. So we would like to see the application and/or
plans they submitted to the city planning if possible. If needed I can come to your office to meet
with you.
 
Thank you.
Dennis Lee

--- page 86 ---
On Thu, Sep 15, 2022 at 12:35 PM Dennis Lee 
 wrote:
Hi Kenneth,
 
Thank you so much for answering my questions on the project. Please see below our comments to
city planning sent in late June. We haven't heard anything since then other than Laura Aguirre's
reply of receiving my email, though we asked to be added to the interest list. 
 
We still have big concerns about the five rear windows of the second story addition. Question:
what is the planning process from this point forward?
 
Thank you very much for your time and attention to this matter.
Dennis Lee
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Dennis Lee 
Date: Wed, Jun 29, 2022 at 11:28 AM
Subject: Comments on second story addition at 329 Greenfield Ave. San Mateo, CA 94403
To: <Planning@cityofsanmateo.org>
 
Our home is located directly at the back of the said property with an adjoining back fence. In the
virtual meeting for the proposed additions, we expressed our privacy concerns to the owners and
architect. We also subsequently emailed them a few times with our additional comments. We
even referenced them to the city's Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines and related
sections on neighbor's privacy. The owners and architect have not addressed our concerns
satisfactorily. We hope City Planning can help mitigate the impacts of this project and preserve
our privacy.
 
Our main concern is about the five windows at the rear of the second story addition. We feel
strongly these windows will cause privacy impacts for our home. Specifically these windows will
directly overlook our entire backyard and create viewpoints to our private space in our home
including our family room, bathroom and bedrooms.
 
The back windows' measurements were originally 2'x2' (3), 2.5'x3' (1) and 3'x3' (1) as shared at
the virtual meeting. 11 days later the dimensions of these windows were increased to 2'x4' (3),
2.5'x4' (1) and 3'x4'(1) respectively after our comments. This change was in contrary in addressing
our privacy concerns. We are very disappointed with this change. 
 
The plan of the second story addition has two windows on each of the side walls but five windows
on the rear wall looking into our backyard and the back of our house. These five windows are big
and privacy invading. It definitely will be less intrusive to our privacy if these windows are moved
to the side walls, OR the window sill level be raised to above eye level and using obscure window
glass, as the owner said the windows are merely there to bring light.
 
Really hope the city can help so all parties’ privacy can be preserved. Thank you very much

--- page 87 ---
for your time and attention!
 
Dennis and Irene Lee
 
P.S. Please add us to the interest list for this project so we can get email updates on the subject.

--- page 88 ---
From: Irene 
 
Sent: Tuesday, May 9, 2023 5:59:28 PM 
To: Kenneth Chou <kchou@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission 
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Dennis Lee 
 
Subject: Re: 5/9 Planning Commission Meeting 329 Greenfield Ave Appeal  
  
Hi Kenneth,    
 
Appreciate your suggestion but don’t really have anyone who can help with the meeting. Can you ask 
the Commission on our behalf for a continuance?  
 
To the Planning Commission: 
 
I’m Irene Lee, wife of Dennis Lee. Dennis has some medical issues and is currently in the hospital. We 
are requesting the Planning Commission for a continuance. Thank you.  
Irene

--- page 89 ---
329 Greenfield Avenue
Appeal of a Second-Story Addition
(PA-2022-051)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
May 9, 2023
Kenneth Chou, Assistant Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 90 ---
329 Greenfield Avenue
Appeal of a Second-Story Addition
(PA-2022-051)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
May 9, 2023
Kenneth Chou, Assistant Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 91 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
3
• May 28 – July 21, 2022
• Applicant hosts Neighborhood Information Meeting and submits Planning Application (PA)
• February 17 – 27, 2023
• Public Notice and Public Comment Period
• March 2, 2023
• Zoning Administrator issues approval of the project
• March 11, 2023
• Appeal is filed by Dennis Lee (Appellant)
• May 9, 2023
• Item continued to May 23, 2023

--- page 92 ---
Project Site
PROJECT SITE
•
1 Parcel (5,268 sq. ft.)
•
Existing Residence
•
1,640 sq. ft. 
•
One-story
•
Ranch Style
•
General Plan Land Use –  Single Family
•
Zoning District – R1-C
4

--- page 93 ---
5
PROJECT SITE
•
1 Parcel (5,268 sq. ft.)
•
Existing Residence
•
1,640 sq. ft. 
•
One-story
•
Ranch Style
•
General Plan Land Use –  Single Family
•
Zoning District – R1-C

--- page 94 ---
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Proposed
6
Single-Family Dwelling Design Review for a 
566 sq. ft. second-story addition
The project also includes a 344 sq. ft. first 
floor addition

--- page 95 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
7
• General Plan Land Use – Single Family
• R1-C (One Family Dwellings)
• Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines
Proposed
Maximum
Floor Area Ratio
0.48
0.5
Square Footage
2,550 sq. ft.
2,634 sq. ft.
Building Height
22’-10 ¾” 
32’
Units
1
1 + ADU + JADU
Setbacks
Proposed
Minimum
Front
20’-9”
15’
Front (Garage)
14’-½” (existing)
20’
Left Side
8’-5 ½” 
5’
Right Side
10’-½” 
5’
1st Story Rear
2nd Story Rear
12’-3 ¾” (existing)
25’
15’
25’

--- page 96 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS
• Neighborhood Informational Meeting 
(5/28/2022)
• 3 comments regarding privacy, blocking 
sunlight, and oak tree. 
• 10 Day Public Comment Period 
(2/7/2023 – 2/17/2023) 
• 1 comment for privacy impacts caused 
by the project’s second story rear 
windows; and 
• Frosting of the stairway landing window
8

--- page 97 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
1.
Privacy impacts caused by the 
second story rear windows
2.
Frosting of stairway landing window
9

--- page 98 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
1.
Privacy impacts caused by the 
second story rear windows
2.
Frosting of the stairway landing 
window
10
Privacy Impact Review
•
Window design

--- page 99 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
1.
Privacy impacts caused by the 
second story rear windows
2.
Frosting of the stairway landing 
window
11
Privacy Impact Review
•
Distance of the windows
•
Privacy hedges
56’

--- page 100 ---
REASONS FOR APPEAL
1.
Privacy impact caused by the 
second story rear windows
2.
Frosting of the stairway landing 
window
12
Stairway Window Frosting
•
Correction in Zoning Administrator’s Decision Letter

--- page 101 ---
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION
• California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
• Categorically exempt 
• Class 1 Section 15301(e)
• Additions to Existing Structures 
13

--- page 102 ---
RECOMMENDATION
Adopt a Resolution to deny the appeal of the Zoning Administrator's 
decision to approve the Single-Family Dwelling Design Review (SFDDR)
14

--- page 103 ---
Slides For PA-2022-051 
Appeal
By Dennis Lee

--- page 104 ---
Our Backyard Facing The Back Wall of the Project In Question

--- page 105 ---
Proposed Rear Elevation of the project in question
The five windows in question overlooking our yard

--- page 106 ---
Use 2 & 3 To Create A Visual Reference of the 5 Windows to Our Yard

--- page 107 ---
5 Windows Overlook Our Yard Including Our Deck Area On the Left

--- page 108 ---
5 Windows Overlook Our Back Windows & Private Space

--- page 109 ---
City's Design Guidelines Section 6b

Single-Family Design Guidelines Elements of Design

6b) Privacy - Placement of Second-Sto
The placement of a second-story addition on a house can

When planning an addition, evaluate how the location of the second-story on the property may

® Can the proposed second-story addition be pulled back from a property line to protect a
neighbor’s privacy?

E}
® Could the desired expansion be better accommodated with a single-story addition?

Guideline:


--- page 110 ---
5 Key Points in Section 6b
●Avoid privacy Impacts on adjacent neighbors
●Avoid creating sight lines into adjacent homes
●The second-story addition to avoid direct views into neighboring 
windows or yard areas
●Manipulation of architectural forms to enhance neighboring 
privacy
●Design house additions to respect adjacent neighbor privacy
All above key points fail.

--- page 111 ---
About These 5 Windows
●5 windows crammed on the rear wall (~22 ft wide) whereas 
each of the two side walls (~27 ft wide) only has 2 windows
●Direct views/sightlines into our yard, windows and private 
space - family room, bathroom, two bedrooms
●Do not respect our privacy
●Overly large, intrusive and intimidating

--- page 112 ---
Our Proposal
●
Use venting skylights that can open/close, get air/light and won’t impact others privacy
●
Move some of the windows at the rear wall to the side walls
●
Raise the windows sill height to above eye level just as many bathroom windows do
●
Frosted windows could still work if having them as fixed windows or picture windows 
that don't open
●
A combination of above such as: moving two windows to the side walls, having 
one/two skylights and raising the rest of windows sill height above eye level
As the project owner stated in one of the email exchanges: The five windows for the bathroom and 
stairway “are merely there to bring light into the house.” 
All above suggestions satisfy this statement.

--- page 113 ---
Revisit Slide 4 - A Visual Reference of the 5 Windows to Our Yard

--- page 114 ---
Thank You!

--- page 115 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7408
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 23, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Allow for Additional Office Space in lieu of Retail at the North Block of Hillsdale Shopping Center at 60 31st Avenue (PA-
2022-022)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification for a property located at 60 31st Avenue 
to enable 37,611 square-feet of retail space to be used for either retail or office uses at an existing commercial building 
(North Block) and adopt an Addendum to a Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess the environmental impacts of the 
project, based on the Findings for Approval and subject to the Conditions of Approval.
BACKGROUND:
The Hillsdale Shopping Center is a an approximately 40-acre shopping center consisting of three primary blocks referred to 
as the South Block, Mid Block, and North Block with approximately 1.15 million square-feet of commercial uses including 
retail, restaurant, office, and entertainment uses. The South Block currently includes retail uses such as the Guitar Center, 
Old Navy, as well as a grocery store, Trader Joe’s. The Mid Block contains the bulk of the Shopping Center’s retail tenants 
including two anchor department stores, Macy’s and Nordstrom. The North Block underwent a redevelopment for 
commercial uses including retail, office, restaurant, fitness, a cinema, as well as common outdoor plazas and circulation 
areas that was completed in 2020. The North Block currently includes retail uses such as Apple, Lululemon, and restaurant 
uses such as Shake Shack and Pinstripes, but some of the retail spaces have remained untenanted.
On April 4, 2022, Bohannon Development Company (applicant) filed a request to allow 37,611 square-feet of office uses 
within an existing North Block commercial building previously approved for retail uses. This would allow the applicant to 
lease the subject space for either office or retail uses. This request requires a Modification to the originally approved Site 
Plan and Architectural Review subject to Planning Commission approval given that it involves changes to conditions 
originally approved by the City Council as provided in Municipal Code Section 27.08.080(b)(2).
Project Site
The project site consists of the 12.2-acre North Block parcel of the Hillsdale Shopping Center located at 60 31st Avenue, 
which has a General Plan land use designation of Regional Community Commercial and a zoning designation of C2-2/Q5 
(Regional Community Commercial/Sub-Area A of the Qualified Overlay District 5). The project site is bound by 31st Avenue 
and the Mid Block of the shopping center to the south; commercial uses along S. El Camino Real on the east; residential 
uses on the west; and residential and commercial uses on the north. The existing uses at the project site include retail, 
office, restaurant, cinema, and public open space areas. The project site is approximately one-half mile from the relocated 
Hillsdale Caltrain Station. A location map showing the location of the North Block as well as other blocks of the Shopping 
Center is included as Attachment 2.

--- page 116 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Project Description
Approved Planning Application
On March 7, 2016, the City Council approved a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) for the construction of the 
proposed North Block redevelopment; Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for removal of major vegetation; and 
Special Use Permit (SUP) for cinema and bowling alley uses under Planning Application number PA-2015-024 (collectively 
referred to as “approved project” in this report). The City Council also adopted a Mitigated Negative Declaration to analyze 
the project’s environmental impacts as part of the approved project. 
The approved project included reconstruction of existing two-story retail buildings; construction of two, two-story 
detached buildings at the northwest corner of S. El Camino Real and 31st Avenue; creation of an outdoor plaza and roof 
terraces; and construction of 1,375 off-street parking spaces. The overall commercial project floor area consisted of 
177,675 square-feet of retail uses; 16,656 square-feet of office uses; 40,090 square-feet of fitness uses; 43,945 square-feet 
of cinema uses; and 13,655 square-feet of common circulation area. Construction was completed in 2020.
Planning Application Modification
The applicant has submitted a Planning Application Modification to allow up to 37,611 square-feet of retail space to be 
used for either retail or office uses on the first floor of an existing two-story building along the site’s S. El Camino Real 
frontage identified as Building L in the project plans (collectively referred to as “project” in this report). No changes to the 
site plan, off-street parking facilities, or additional floor area are proposed. If approved, the applicant or the prospective 
office tenant could file building permits to outfit the subject space into office uses. No exterior changes are proposed in 
this project; however, a future building permit may include exterior building signage and minor storefront improvements 
provided these improvements do not add new floor area and are architecturally compatible with existing improvements. 
Project plans and photographs showing the proposed location of the conversion is included as Attachment 3.
This project would allow the applicant to lease the subject space to either an office tenant or a retail tenant, which 
provides greater flexibility in leasing opportunities and avoids vacancy or underutilization. It should be noted that office 
uses are a permitted use in the subject zoning district; however, the request for additional office uses differs from the 
conditions originally approved by the City Council in 2016 and thus requires a Modification to the previously approved 
SPAR application under Municipal Code Section 27.08.080(b)(2). In addition, the original transportation analysis prepared 
for the approved project evaluated the subject space as retail uses, not office uses, which generally have different traffic 
patterns from each other. This project includes a transportation analysis for the increased office uses which is discussed in 
the Environmental Determination section of this report. 
Applicable Code and Policy Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
The proposed project is consistent with the site’s land use designation of Regional Community Commercial and the 
underlying zoning designation of C2-2/Q5 as the proposed office use is permitted by right. In addition, the project does not 
include changes to the overall floor area ratio, setbacks, building height, or other measurements of bulk regulated by the 
underlying zoning district. A project data sheet showing the approved project’s conformance to applicable development 
standards and the net change in retail and office floor area is included as Attachment 4.
El Camino Real Master Plan
The El Camino Real Master Plan (Master Plan) provides a vision for enhancements to El Camino Real from State Route 92 
to the Belmont City limits border. The approved North Block redevelopment was designed and has since been constructed 
in accordance with the Master Plan. This proposed project proposes no changes to the exterior of the buildings, site plan, 
or public improvements that would affect the North Block’s consistency with the Master Plan. A list of the applicable El 
Camino Real Master Plan policies and the proposed project’s conformance to them is included in Attachment 1.
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan and Hillsdale Station Area Plan
The San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Rail Corridor Plan) includes transit-supportive policies, 
land uses, development densities, height standards, and design guidelines. These policies include the establishment of two 
zones located within the larger plan area in the vicinity of the Hayward Park and Hillsdale Stations. The project site is not

--- page 117 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
located within the City’s Transit Oriented Development (TOD) zone but is within the Rail Corridor Plan’s plan area and is 
thus subject to guidance with respect to trip reduction measures. 
The project site is also subject to the Hillsdale Station Area Plan, which include areas to the west of the Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station that includes policies that promote a mix of uses that create an active and transit-supportive Station Area. In 
addition, similar to the Rail Corridor Plan, the Hillsdale Station Area Plan contains a policy to require development of a trip 
reduction and parking management program mandatory for new development on properties in the Station Area. 
The project is consistent with the applicable trip reduction guidelines in the Rail Corridor Plan and Hillsdale Station Area 
Plan in that the applicant has prepared a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan that results in a 15 percent trip 
reduction to the proposed office uses’ Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT). This reduction is achieved through measures such as 
public transit passes or subsidies, and bicycle repair facilities that are made available to the proposed office uses. The 
larger North Block redevelopment was also approved with a Transportation Demand Management Plan that the project 
will continue to implement. These include measures for transit service information on the Shopping Center website, transit 
information kiosks, and a Transportation Demand Management coordinator who promotes alternative modes of 
transportation to tenants and employees. 
A list of the applicable Rail Corridor Plan and Hillsdale Station Area Plan policies and the proposed project’s conformance 
to them is included in Attachment 1.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION
Addendum to Mitigated Negative Declaration
Pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines Section 15164, an Addendum to the Initial Study 
and Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) adopted as part of the approved project has been prepared. The Addendum, 
included as Attachment 5, discloses the proposed changes in the approved project and evaluates whether the proposed 
project would result in new or more significant environmental impacts disclosed in the adopted IS/MND. Circumstances 
which would warrant a subsequent Negative Declaration or Environmental Impact Report include substantial changes in 
the project or new information of substantial importance which would require major revisions of the previous IS/MND due 
to the occurrence of new significant impacts and/or a substantial increase in the severity of previously identified significant 
effects. As provided in the Addendum, the project is not expected to result in any new significant environmental effects. A 
transportation analysis, however, was prepared given the enactment of Vehicle Miles Traveled as the criteria for 
determining transportation impacts for CEQA after the original project was approved.
Transportation Analysis and Transportation Demand Management Plan
Since the adoption of the approved project’s IS/MND, the State of California enacted Senate Bill (SB) 743 that establishes 
Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) as the criteria for determining the significance of transportation impacts. The City also 
adopted new Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines in 2020 to implement VMT as the metric for CEQA analysis 
and to establish screening criteria that, if met, would result in the project having a less than significant VMT impact under 
CEQA. Projects that do not meet screening criteria are subject to the TIA Guidelines’ thresholds of significance for 
comparison in quantified VMT analyses to determine significance.
To evaluate the proposed project’s transportation impacts, the applicant submitted a Trip Generation Memo prepared by 
their transportation consultant, Kimley Horn. The Trip Generation Memo concluded that the proposed project would not 
cause additional level of service deficiencies and would generate a net reduction of 993 daily trips, an increase of 23 AM 
peak hour trips, and a reduction of 80 PM peak hour trips when compared to the land uses in the approved project. 
The Trip Generation Memo also includes a complete VMT analysis, given that the proposed project did not meet any of the 
criteria to qualify for an exemption in the City’s TIA Guidelines. A VMT analysis was conducted for each land use (retail and 
office), which found that the proposed project would reduce the retail component’s VMT given that the proposed project 
reduces the retail floor area by 37,561 square-feet. The Trip Generation Memo also concluded that the office component 
results in 13.3 VMT per employee, which is below the impact threshold of 15.3 VMT per employee, through required 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures for the office uses. As required by Condition of Approval #, the

--- page 118 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
applicant will implement and monitor results of the TDM Plan, which includes measures for public transit passes or 
subsidies; and bicycle repair station or toolkits that are made available to the proposed office use. The applicant’s Trip 
Generation Memo and TDM Plan are included as Attachment 6.
FISCAL IMPACT
Because the proposed project includes the conversion of space previously approved for retail uses into office uses, the 
applicant would be subject to payment of the net increase in office uses for the following impact fees, which are assessed 
and collected prior to the issuance of associated building permits, as conditioned. 
•
Commercial Linkage Fee of $32.76 per square-foot of office uses in excess of 5,000 square-feet to offset the 
impact of development projects on the need for affordable housing.
•
Child Care Development Fee of $0.63 per square-foot of office uses, to offset the impact on the need for future 
childcare space needs by new development.
PUBLIC COMMENTS
The applicant conducted a neighborhood meeting on January 26, 2022 in which five members of the public attended. 
Attendees raised questions regarding the need for office use and the future of the remainder of the shopping center. A 
Notice of Public Hearing was mailed on May 12, 2023. As of the date of publication of this report, no public comments 
have been received. Public comments after publication of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for 
review and consideration at the public hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting 
Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code Section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this Public 
Hearing was noticed to the following parties more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site.
•
The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and,
•
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Resolution with Findings
A.
Conditions of Approval
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Factual Data Sheet 
Att 5 – Addendum to the Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration
Att 6 – Trip Generation Memo and Transportation Demand Management Plan
STAFF CONTACT
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7211

--- page 119 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
RESOLUTION APPROVING A MODIFICATION TO A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL 
REVIEW PLANNING APPLICATION TO ENABLE 37,611 SQUARE FEET OF RETAIL SPACE TO BE USED FOR EITHER 
RETAIL OR OFFICE USES AT AN EXISTING COMMERCIAL BUILDING AT 60 31ST AVENUE, APN 039-490-170 
(PA-2022-022 HILLSDALE SHOPPING CENTER SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW MODIFICATION)
WHEREAS, on March 7, 2016, the City Council approved a Site Plan and Architectural Review, Special Use 
Permit, and Site Development Planning Application for 60 31st Avenue, APN 039-490-170 for the redevelopment 
of the Hillsdale Shopping Center’s North Block (collectively referred to as “Approved Project”) (PA-2015-024);
WHEREAS, on March 7, 2016, the City Council adopted Mitigated Negative Declaration (“adopted 
IS/MND”) to assess environmental impacts of the Approved Project in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) Guidelines 15070; and
WHEREAS, David Bohannon of Bohannon Development Company (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) 
submitted a planning application (PA-2022-022) with the Planning Division for a Site Plan and Architectural Review  
Modification to enable 37,611 square-feet of retail space to be used for either retail or office uses at an existing 
commercial building previously approved for retail uses at 60 31st Avenue, APN 039-490-170 (collectively referred 
to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”); and
WHEREAS, the proposed Project is located within the El Camino Real Master Plan, San Mateo Rail Corridor 
Transit-Oriented Development Plan, and Hillsdale Station Area Plan study areas; and 
 WHEREAS, the San Mateo City Charter and Municipal Code Section 27.08.080(b)(2) authorizes the 
Planning Commission to take final action on Modifications involving changes to conditions expressly imposed by 
the Planning Commission or City Council; and
WHEREAS, approval of the applicant’s proposal is considered a “Project” for purposes of the California 
Environmental Quality Act, Pub. Resources Code §21000, et seq. (“CEQA”); and
WHEREAS, the City prepared an Addendum finding that the Project would not result in new significant 
environmental impacts or a substantial increase in the severity of environmental impacts disclosed in the 
adopted IS/MND in accordance with CEQA Guidelines 15164; and
WHEREAS, the City finds the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan and other 
applicable policies, 
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on May 23, 2023 duly noticed, 
at which all public comments were considered;
 NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
CALIFORNIA AS FOLLOWS:

--- page 120 ---
1.
The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that there is no substantial 
evidence that the project will have a significant effect on the environment and the Addendum to the 
adopted IS/MND reflects the lead agency’s independent judgment and analysis.
2.
The custodian of the documents or other material which constitute the record of the proceeding upon 
which this decision is based is the Community Development Department, located at City Hall, 330 
West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, California. 
3.
The Addendum to the adopted IS/MND for this Project is adopted.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
AS FOLLOWS:
1.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Land Use, Circulation, Urban Design, and Noise 
Elements of the City’s General Plan. 
a.
The Project conforms to Policy LU1.10 of the Land Use Element in that the Project consists of 
the allowance of new office uses at an existing building previously approved for retail uses, 
which is a compatible and desirable use for this area. In addition, the Project conforms to 
Planning Area Policy PA7.4, which allows expansion of the Hillsdale Shopping Center for uses 
including office. The Project does not propose any physical expansion.
b.
In conformance with Policies C2.5 and C2.11 of the Circulation Element, the Applicant has 
prepared a Trip Generation Memo and Transportation Demand Management Plan to reduce 
vehicular trips created by the Project. The Transportation Demand Management Plan 
estimates a 15 percent trip reduction as a result of measures including an on-site coordinator 
and bicycle repair facilities.
c.
The Project conforms to Policies UD1.5, UD1.6, and UD2.6 which respectively encourage 
visual improvements along El Camino Real, conformance to guidelines in the El Camino Real 
Master Plan, and locating commercial development at the street to encourage pedestrian 
activity. The Project is within an existing development and a prominent two-story commercial 
building along S. El Camino Real designed in accordance with the guidance of the El Camino 
Real Master Plan, which would be unaffected by the Project. In addition, the Project would 
maintain existing storefronts that are oriented toward its frontage based on Conditions of 
Approval.
d.
The Project conforms to Policy N2.2 of the Noise Element in that an acoustical analysis was 
completed as part of the adopted IS/MND, and construction of the development has been 
completed. The Project would entail interior construction that is expected to cause minimal 
construction noise.
2.
The Project conforms to applicable policy and goal of the El Camino Real Master Plan.
a.
Policy ECR4-2 places limits on the location on surface parking lots and parking structures along 
El Camino Real. The Project is within an existing two-story commercial building along S. El 
Camino Real and does not propose parking facilities along this frontage. In addition, the El 
Camino Real Master Plan establishes a goal of encouraging mixed-use development with

--- page 121 ---
special design review considerations. The Project allows another land use in the subject 
building, which furthers this goal of mixed use development.
3.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan.
a.
The Project conforms to Policy 7.19 of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan, which encourages all development projects outside the Transit Oriented 
Development zone but within the plan area to have trip reduction measures as part of the 
development application. The Applicant has prepared a Transportation Demand 
Management Plan that results in a 15 percent reduction in vehicular trips generated by the 
proposed office use. This is achieved through programmatic measures such as an on-site 
coordinator and bicycle repair facilities. 
4.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the Hillsdale Station Area Plan.
a.
In conformance with Policy LU-1.1, the Project includes office uses along S. El Camino Real. 
This Policy requires non-residential ground floor uses for portions of parcels that face El 
Camino Real from 25th to 31st Avenues. The Project also conforms to Policy LU-3.1, which 
encourages intensification of land uses around the Hillsdale Caltrain Station. While the Project 
does not increase the overall floor area, the Project does expand the allowable use of the 
project site for additional office uses, thereby expanding the leasing opportunities in a site 
that is within one-half mile of the Hillsdale Caltrain Station.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
DOES HEREBY APPROVE THE HILLSDALE SHOPPING CENTER SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL MODIFICATION AT 
60 31ST AVENUE, APN 039-490-170 BASED UPON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND THE 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL INCLUDED IN EXHIBIT A TO THIS RESOLUTION:
1.
The Modification to the Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) 
application and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a.
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that:
i.
The Project is within an existing two-story commercial building that underwent 
independent design review to verify consistency with the Urban Design Element of 
the General Plan and guidelines in the El Camino Real Master Plan. The Project 
maintains the exterior design of the building and would include interior construction 
to accommodate a future office use. 
ii.
The Project is within the North Block of the Hillsdale Shopping Center, which includes 
existing open space and public gathering areas adjacent to the Project entrances. The 
Project does not propose exterior changes or alterations to the existing open space 
or landscaping.
b.
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City in 
that:

--- page 122 ---
i.
The Project is consistent with the General Plan, El Camino Real Master Plan, San 
Mateo Rail Corridor-Transit Oriented Development Plan, and the Hillsdale Station 
Area Plan.
ii.
The Project has a General Plan Land Use designation of Regional Community 
Commercial and is zoned C2-2/Q5 (Regional Community Commercial/Sub-Area A of 
the Qualified Overlay District 5). The Project would enable the use of an existing 
building for office uses, which is a permitted use in this zone. 
c.
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that:
i.
The Project allows the project site allowance for increased office uses, which result in 
expanded leasing opportunities which represent an improvement to the property and 
would not result in significant impacts regarding public health, safety, or welfare as 
conditioned.
ii.
The Project is in compliance with all building codes, fire codes, and the City’s Building 
Security Code.
d.
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site.
e.
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be 
required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of Approval.

--- page 123 ---
EXHIBIT B
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2022-022, 60 31ST AVE., HILLSDALE SHOPPING CENTER SPAR MODIFICATION
60 31ST AVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94403-3404
 PARCEL # 039490170
 AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON __________
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. 
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING 
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application and the approved planning application number PA-2015-024. This includes but 
is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as part of 
the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning 
application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development Director, or 
his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee, shall determine whether the proposed 
modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or whether a 
planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the proposed 
modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications. 
(PLANNING)
2 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE TO PA-2015-024 – All Conditions of 
Approval in Exhibit B to Resolution 33 (2016) for Planning Application PA-2015-024 shall 
still apply. The following Conditions of Approval supplement those adopted in Exhibit B to 
Resolution 33 (2016). (PLANNING)
3 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING)
4 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING)
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE or IMPROVEMENTS FOR OFFICE USES.

--- page 124 ---
Planning Division (PA)
5 CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a Child Care Development Fee 
subject to the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the 
time of building permit issuance and subject to the net difference caused by the change in 
use to office uses. (PLANNING)
6 COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE – The applicant shall pay the Affordable Commercial Housing 
Linkage Fee in accordance with Municipal Code Section 23.61 and Resolution 111 (2021) 
subject to the rate established in the annual Comprehensive Fee Schedule in effect at the 
time payment is made and subject to the net difference caused by the change in use to 
office uses. (PLANNING)
7 SIGNAGE – Preliminary signage shown in the approved planning application plans are for 
information only. Final signage shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with Title 25 
of the Municipal Code. (PLANNING)
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, 
whichever occurs first.
Public Works Department (PA)
8 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PROGRAM – A Transportation Demand 
Management (TDM) Program has been prepared for this project (refer to the Hillsdale 
Shopping Center North Block - Building L Professional Office Transportation Demand 
Management Plan, dated March 31, 2023). The property owner or designee shall submit a 
written letter to the Public Works Director on an annual basis with an assessment of 
compliance with the Transportation Demand Management Plan, including mode split 
survey results, by the end of every calendar year (December 31st). (PUBLIC WORKS)
9 TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (TMA) – A TMA has been established for 
projects in the Corridor Plan area. All development within the Specific Plan Amendment 
area shall participate in the TMA and fund their fair share of the cost of the TMA. The TMA 
will develop TDM measures and make them available to both existing and future 
development within the Corridor Plan area. The property owner or designee shall provide 
proof of general membership to the Director of Public Works or designee prior to first 
occupancy of the building. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
10 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical 
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application and the approved planning application number PA-2015-024 shall, at all times 
that the use permitted by this planning application occupies the premises, substantially

--- page 125 ---
conform with the approved planning application. This includes but is not limited to plans, 
materials, project description, and other items submitted as part of the approved planning 
application. Any proposed modifications to the approved planning application shall be 
reviewed and approved by the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, 
prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the proposed modifications 
substantially conform with the approved planning application, or whether a planning 
application modification is required to be submitted to permit the proposed modifications, 
as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications.  (PLANNING)
11 GROUND FLOOR INTERIOR VISIBILITY – Visibility into the ground floor of Building L shall be 
maintained in accordance with the El Camino Real Master Plan. Building occupants shall 
not cause obstructed interior views of activity through reflective or dark tinted glass. 
(PLANNING)
City Attorney (PA)
12 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge.  If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to select 
the counsel who shall defend the City.  (CITY ATTORNEY)
13 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies.  
(CITY ATTORNEY)
Public Works Department (PA)
14 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) PLAN – Once implemented, the 
Transportation Demand Management Plan shall be monitored and assessed annually for 
the occupied life of the development. The program shall be recorded with the County.  The 
assessment of compliance with the Transportation Demand Management Plan, including 
mode split survey results, shall be submitted to Public Works by the end of every calendar 
year (December 31st).

--- page 126 ---
LOCATION MAP 
PA-2022-022 
HILLSDALE SHOPPING CENTER SPAR MODIFICATION 
Address: 
60 31st Ave 
Parcel Number: 
039-490-170 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Site (North Block) 
Mid Block 
South Block

--- page 127 ---
EL CAMINO REAL 
,~ .... ·---
REFERENCE DRAWING: 
THIS DRAWING IS FOR REFERENCE ONLY. DATA WAS PROVIDED BY THE BOHANNON DEVELOPMENT COMPANY AND IS FROM AN ALTA SURVEY DATED 12.31.2005 BY LUZURIAGA TAYOR, INC, CIVIL ENGINEERS. 
PARKING REQUIREMENTS 
GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA}" DATA FOR PARCELS t, 11, 111, IV: 
EXISTING GFA. 1,258,714 SF 
EXISTING PARKING SUPPLY: 5,371 SELF-PARKED SPACES, 85 VAL.ET SPACES 
GFA PARKING RATIO INCLUDES VAi.ET SPACES 4 33 PARKING SPACES PER 1,000 SF 
I 
PROPOSED GFA. 1,259,505 SF 
PROPOSED PARKING SUPPLY: 5,019 SELF.PARKED SPACES, 85 VALET SPACES 
GFA PARKING RATIO INCWDES VALET SPACES· 4 02 PARKING SPACES PER 1,000 SF 
CITY Of SAN MATEO REGIONAL SHOPPING CENTER PARKING REQUIREMENT: 3.5 PARKING STALLS PER 1,000 SF 
"GROSS FLOOR AREA DOES NOT ING WOE M.Al..1. COMMON AAEA FLOOR OF!:NllfGS 
OR MALL BASEMENT EXCEPT FOR FITNESS CENTER, MACY'S SALES FLOORS AND MALL OFFICES, 
0 
0\/ERAU. em: PLAN 
r • 71!'.a,,i..\N 
ELS 
UUIT!Clll( n• IUU USIO 
:i-lOUOICotlllllrR .rttlUl, t.l 11114 
,1:uo,v. J HUU,1»11 
•ulu,Ot•tcr~ 
HILLSDALE NORTH 
BLOCK 
RECONFIGURATION 
m . .. , Y-..1v:i 
201UO 
1"''1ANHOH 
,,,,,,,__ 
C<JMl'ANV 
s,MYJfttll~ 
$AA-4J'l0.CA,._, 
o-.r11c, CON~\ILT~IS; 
V,"'0SC"( AiQl!l(Cf: 
UliCU'tl. .. lfQl'10K~l,tC. 
• t~C,1Mifl\lS0olfwt 
N£W1101t' ac.t.e:ff. Cot. 97440 
UL! (9•9) •7' HU 
,. • . (t•j) •1·~· 
Ci\'11. ('°",'1'.U: 
l h .t ..... n t..r~t,(tl:t<,, INC, 
2•U 1"')1,1Sl/l•M. f'.'~AY 
,tiY'IIU 1), r;.t,'9,tt.Q 
ru.., (>10) MIJ-.oat 
F4ll, 
(!lol!JJ n ,-.kltt 
C:t'!CtJO,t t -.'Vl•Oo,wCt1i•4 r,.t,thll(:S· 
~~ 
"lll'Dl111:.11 
lUI T[LIC,• P,. ... '"C. 
O,,Ju.,ud), C,. h&li 
11~: (~·O) )U M IO 
¥18£ 
11 t~~$TRtU 
P.111.Ql" co. ,on1 
1n.; (.SO.,) u 7 .... 2(1l 
ru, UCU) U0-701' 
UGllf<~~ 
HU,I.K;M'it-~C\~ 
.KIOM•/11-UMll Wlt21i 
S4!o ,....,_ctKO. t.,, t • 11>7 
m,: !• U,) .J.il-UU 
r•l!: f.,~) j•e-m, 
z 
C( 
..... 
Q. 
LI.I .... 
en 
..... 
..... 
C( 
ct: 
LI.I > 
0 
HOVE.llfJER 1,1, NJ! 
Note: these  plans were prepared and submitted in 2015 for the Site's existing SPAR entitlement (see PA2015-024).  In order to provide clarity for the current SPAR 
modification, we have annotated these plans to direct the City's attention to the first floor area of Building L that is the subject of this application.
No changes to 
existing site plan 
or parking 
supply are 
proposed by 
current SPAR 
modification 
application.
 
North Block project site.

--- page 128 ---
r,opoud - "Y',,g~I<, 
16vt1(Ubout 
ANCHOR 
SUILCt~G 
t --•~lrl\jl 
M.afl Shops 
NOTES: 
0Ul~10E LANE DIMENS!OHS JNC·l.\JCC t;UTTER:7;, 
0 1\1 
;•~ 
Pt.£.ASE REfER TO THE PROP£RTY t,;j1!Ull ~ SHUTU-t FQftAl,\.~Et,IT$.PftQPER:T'Y t.JNl;$ANO LOT 0"11:N$10N5, 
IMTti ltlE 0:(:EJ>TIOf>I OF THE ~Lt..6 f AAGO PAD, LOAOiNCZON!;6 ARE C.OCATEO IN THE B.ASEMl;HT ANOA(:c-t:,S5t:O FROM TH.E TRU<;K rvm,n 
LO(;.a.ftONANU lQf:NTif,,;AnoN Of' ITEMS Of O&S'TRl,,H;TION ON 6IDfwr.L'-SAHOC:Uti;55 S\Jtt1 AS ti¥~$. \JTIUTY MOERS AND VTl\rTY POlE.$ J;AN 8e f OUNtl ON ,;flll'L 6 "HE(T$· 
LO(;AllQNANtl DtAMl:TERS Of E)U$TIHG, lREESM-ID~'lotiETtte.R ltiEY ARE TO REWJNQM $TAY ARE IN't'IICATl;OIN THl;AA50fU$T RE.PO«T ANDVJ.l~,;.AJ>t; 6HEE'T$: 
I 
·~· 
300 
{l 
II St!lt.,H:k' 
St111i;1v, et1 P-o,~i'lg 
. . -. 
-. \; I 
. . .. 
.. 
~ -
.. . 
e. .. ,~t, n,: po,~,11,. .,, .. pc~"' , .-M&,ll .Ill Cu'Jd <: 
Le~t"I l),)Jldng ' " No,,n p .a,•h •g !.lfU(li,HC' 
MO(H1Ment ~,gl'I 
aod gantry 
"'fl! 
I: j 1 :--. 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
E:iis11t1R o:ntry l mPJ0\1111:I 
lo, C.l.$1 t:J ;lC::Cf!~!l ()fl oi 
El Camino Rc.1 
NORTH BLOCK GFA CALCULATIONS: 
PAOPll!.HI PAO!'illJIM r.u A[ !.1.JLl hG ,N PA1tl(1p,ia 0£h!Ai\O, 
l,/lo\U. lllTAIL.& fCOO H..,,,,.h 
r1l"[SS. CC1',TC:R 
f)fflt:~ 
CINEMA, 8Q4 !.-Nt, 
COMl.40!,i AA [Ji .Cl ltCllL.11110<. 
TOl"L ,-RE..t. 
fi:".U.i AltfA • PAACF1 SI, 11, IIJ, lV 
1}7,e,1?1• 
~0,090 ll 
14;>,t,',t;, ... • 
U .'945lt 
ll.6~~ ,, 
2'9-2.Cl21 ~r 
l.~•.!iO~d 
flROM!.rD PIHl!'.ilU,M L';f.l, kOT A[:SULflloiG 1p,i PAIU(IN!. ~~t.lANe, 
,e.:,uf (;01Ull001t'5, }fON.-.C..t, Uf,C'MAl"fl~AL ANO "l14.I rY SP',\Cf.'!; 
•1-.'.IS1e ,, 
TRU.CK TUht-l(l A.ttO LO"DING, OCClt~ 
11,IDI g 
NORTH BLOCK PARKING CALCULATIONS: 
PROPllSFl'.I P.AlltlNCi • 
P.U:CU I 
NnHH 111 oc.,; 
••.11:1:~L II Ct.Nftl6L LJLQCM; 
PAfttlL Ill 'SCUIM i!l!.()t;11; 
PA!tC:E.L ry ~ill~ I l,LQC~ 
l,l 7S ~ 
.Z.~OJPKn 
f21 JPKH-
200WKU 
l'Noi>o~U) SUt'f't.\' 
PA0P0$F I) RAll<l 
.!,,IC• l!UttJ 
4 (ll $"A(.($HQOO st 
o, 
NORTH BLOCK BIKE PARKING 
lltol.ltkrn Blltf tl'A.Ri<It.1G PEk Cr fv or SA-N IIAT'E.O 8 JC¥Clt: ,.,,.SUR Pl .liN 
)l~ ~IWI l t l(M ~ 1111,1,cutlj 
l OhG T(R~ il.00. GfJI., 11120,0001 
f't.E•Si S[[ S•UT lll l I , oR ('IIV ,RG[() jlll(( P"~i(INC Pl.11:0.S lllUSTIU,f llilC 
Ol~ENS•O~•~ R(O'->IR'[~f.NTS AT A u :a,1u 
o ..... wlNC. SCALE 
PRO'IIO(O BI K~ Pil,ll'KING: 
T,ottl ~lliotl Ttrrn Sl~f r•r~,~, Si:,u:o· 30 ~•pcu 
Tot,1 Lt1nt T,,.,. 8 i•t Pt,~l_.l SOtCUl 16 S•O-C4~ 
NORTH BLOCK PARKING STALL DESIGN 
l . I I'!~ ~A'.1~11N~ PAMl(ll'IC $tA~~ 0I\HNSl0'11'$ WIL~ ~t. 
-....111NTA1N~O lfl 1t-t. , oweA ~\Y!\ t, .. , .. t. 
l'AJIKIHC $fMUC1UMt:. 
~- '"" ~A$r }UffH.(;t. P'A'MIUNG; C,QI $rA~l, l,lthlf,ll.$1QNS Wll~ 
C•ll•••rL" w1t11 Jllf C IJRl!( l'o"J , • .,,..,.;, ... (; ::;, ..... 0 ... 110~ 
3 PRfrftUlfn PAAlll "'-0 Pli:O\IIO(D ,oli: 10iw- £M!tlthlG, & f iJ£l 
rrr,c1f'1wf ~nrn;1 Es • !ii' or r.~u11 3 l 0C'III CAPA.¢1n 
4 
lHf.ltt .... , 16 ACCtsSllill,t hRiltHC 1PACtS 
f,.c- .-irt'f!;:~t~I t ll"AAKI N~ tl"-i tH' N:"l.i" Al~t'K ~1If1,-I lti"J 
1-S !A1E0 Oij TWf U:SES OP-I TN! NORTM 8LDCK. 
DESIGN GUIDELINE COMPLIANCE : 
Hlll:5,D,IILt ~T6Tt4)H 10:EA •LlN, 
l"l'IAl'TfA ~ • i(CT1llN A, (l CAMINO 11:(AI $.rR[f,:1"$r.APE l SfT~-.CIC!; 
rt C".AMINO ~r,1,1, 1-0' $1rl(l\llll lo:$; Wl1H A001l((l'.,A. ~• l[fflAC..; TO 
H.1hJMt OOM,_,tl'(V 4L !SU•ll)ll'lli l/11:ll::. l "t '3. I,-1w...,1i.,,'1'11A).. 
r Hllt.'IIISrolNG lO~t • .l,'11[) 2' fAONT.I.Gf ZON[ lttOIJIA[ll[~TS 
"SJll:EEI UtEES -'Jl[li SP'ACiD. J:l' O.C. 
ElCl:511"-l'.. C TV ?U.ltDROr FIXIUAC'S WILL M litELOC,UED 
CH-'J'T[fl S • S!.CTION 8. EL CAUl~O 1tE.U P'Al!,W'1::i LOIS 
"'1.RKl~('. L0' nK:t LANl)!lC.ll"l hlC Affn u:nrt Nl"l: 1/Anl[C Hl'()M 10' l(} 
J4• ANO I$ INCC)MP~IANCf Wl(H H1f &' RfOutR~MfNf S( TFOltTH IN Tl'lf 
n CAMINO Rf.AL MASnR f'L,A~. 
C11APTrR & . S(CllON e, 3 1ST A¥.fN'U( SIFlH rfoCAP£ & '-!UtACMS 
k( PflOPO'S'i:C-31ST -.HhU~ ~ OfWAlllS MC£T OR [)(C-(EI) THf Rrnu,~rn 
~· T~RC:-JIC'll-t>WA~ •• ,. r.JRl\ISwINn ,n...-r, A\I) ?' HIONlAOC lONt 
RlQU'F!U,ttl'\11$, 
Jar AYt: /11,Uf. M1WU.N ~llR DRI\II, ,'Ntl I.\ c:-.Mr~Ol , ... ·.~- SIOlW~l"-$ 
wm, AODIT 01'>Al ~· Stli,',CI(, TOCQIIY.flt'CIAL BUI\Ol"'IC. 
)]ST All"t:l'fU!. e[tWU'N 5AilVI l)IU)'l ,'Ml EOISO"I s·r .. SIO[.WM,K 
'1'"11"1£$ f,t0:!,1 I()" r 
tl!l "'I. ro JO'·~· P,11AX. 'IYl1H AD'i S LOl't. 51.-i1i10-..ros 
NORTH BLOCK AREA OF WORK: 
ll 1~ ,\t:A!!. 
ME.I Of WOFII{ IN ,-QU .. RE. fEfT 
Uh'.li.14711 
Q5 DISTRICT OVERLAY CALCULATION: 
~"1.347 y 
.,,,, ,,.,~ 1(,41 , .. ., ., ~1"1rt. 
[J:I51I'-C: ST~UJCIU1tt. l{J 11'0.UI~ 
PLAN LEGEND: 
• 
P FI EHR"[O PARKING PROVIOE:D J'.OR LQW.[MITTI NG 
t. f"UEI,.. 1=rr1c11: NT V[Jll(.U:S 
-5% or NORTli 8l0C~ P ... Rl( tNG CAP" cnv 
£.L£Crn1c Yf.HICLl CKl\l!GIN G SfA1 IONS 
PUBLIC ART REQUIREMENT: 
EX.ACT LOCATION ro BE DEHRM I NtD MTE~ PA 
Af'f'ROVAL r f:.R f'URl,IC ART OfHllNANCC 
E LS 
UutHtTHl no nt.ul 1010 
;itO,QClll(l(I 1~r1r. flU!\P, U ,CII• 
HILLSDALE NORTH 
BLOCK 
RECONFIGURATION 
fflLUDALE SrfOPPING CENTER 
1011%0 
8C'1A~HON 
"""-'-""'"" 
COMPANY 
9,0!TYJftr/11/VRAE 
$A.Ntl'IJCO.CIIIM.o1 
0 \1,olC, COtl~\ILt°"'t~: 
l,J,J1,0$(U( .oj,Qlll(Cl': 
1-J'Ul;U"ll- IMl~et•l>OIUi., l!IK:. 
•t~
e.t,'1)S~ 
NC1tl'Oll•acACH.Cll17440 
"( ~: (ft1') ~,t UH 
, ... O•,l .. 10 <Ml-)• 
crv~ ,..a.,-i:u, 
LU & • ._1f (Mf'Jt.((11:1~ INt, 
f4tS 1JOl)I.ISlll!M. f'Af!ltll'AY 
M,.t,nu·o. t..t.<1o1.t,•:t 
ltL: (,10} 111- •066 
UX. (!.1~}887-JGl1 
OU,-~ C,"'ll•O,..wCt1t'- GR.a.-.U(.'$· 
~
i.11\. "LltDtZofl 
I O I rru:c,,..,., "'""· 
°"-'tt.Allll. Clhtli 
m, (~10) ~,s l!lil-tO 
tOOO (()(.~I W -¥'~:'.I • HD tOt.,.f!lf"_ 
Ifill[ 
11U~$Ttltil 
;ol.ll.CV
CQ. .ltll>fl 
Ill: (.SO.,) u 7...,20t 
Fill ( .K13l H O-toff 
uc;lt'l',..:~ 
MUI U'C,M IN".i ll\~
N 
.J,00 ... ,,ou~ 11 Mlt lU 
s.,,,, ,ltNlctKO. c,, t••o1 
lrt, {4 U,) .!( ft- U1] 
• ~~ f•1~) l•e-ni• 
z 
C( 
....I 
a.. 
LI.I 
..... -
Cl) 
....I 
LI.I 
~ 
....I 
LI.I 
C 
C( 
0::: 
c:, 
HOVE.119ER 1«. NU 
No changes to 
existing site plan 
or parking 
supply are 
proposed by 
current SPAR 
modification 
application.
Note: these  plans were prepared and submitted in 2015 for the Site's existing SPAR entitlement (see PA2015-024).  In order to provide clarity for the current SPAR 
modification, we have annotated these plans to direct the City's attention to the first floor area of Building L that is the subject of this application.
 
Existing North Block parking 
resources will not change.

--- page 129 ---
..... ··, .. "-••-·•--.,---•-··~ 
f.\ PROPQSEO NORTH BLOC 
~ K UPPER LEVEL SITE PLAN 
• 
-•· •• ·-
-• 
if 
---~ 
•--= 
• 
I 
I • 
I 
I • 
I 
I 
I • 
I 
I 
I • • 
New acce:s.s,bl.! ramp 
~ 
/ ts, I 
• 
' 
- I 
f ~ 
J 
I it I 
~ 
I 
• I 
I 
. 
I ,,~, 
I i) .J 
I 
I 
~ 
f 
. 
I 
I 
I 
I 
J 
- J 
i 
Ii I 
i~, 
I 
I 
L 
I 
I 
I 
I~ 
{ ~ --/ 
1~ 
I 
I 
_I 
I 
• I 
,'i / 
I~ I 
I 
I 
,' 
I 
I 
I 
J 
ii / 
[!._, ___ ,_ 
: 
··-··-··"I 
I 
: 
: 
I 
I 
: 
. 
I 
i 
i 
LIGHT SCIH(NI 
SOUNO WALi. AT 
f>£RIMf..HR Of 
PARt<tNG 0£CK, TVP. 
1 
! i 
., 
I . 
i . 
I 
i 
i i 
! 
··-··-··,·--.:--~ 
.' 
i 
. 
. 
~-. - • .,J 
: 
PLAN LEGEND: 
,. rm;1 EH IClf:Nl VfHI(";~ IOED roR LOW,[M ITTING 
• PR[f'[RR[O PARKltlG PR V 
- 5% or NORTH Bl OCK P~Pi~NG CAPACITY 
HECliRIC YEHIClf CH,\RGING STAllONS 
HILLSDALE NORTH 
BLOCK 
RECONFIGURA T/ON 
ffll.LSOALE SHOPPING CENTER 
201UO 
1"'1<ANHOH 
"""'""""" 
COMPANY 
f,Dl'n'J(fr/1~ 
$AA-4fCO.CII~ 
Crvll. ,,.,.,,u, 
\~~./1~~~~!'!!':e• INC, 
~ 1Y111ll0,. i;.t. ·U~Q 
Tl~, (~10) ou-.oat 
FllX, {!.IO} U 1~.SOtt 
~~ 
~;-v:_~c"r•- r;.-hlles· 
115JI T[L(c,t• P ..... 11'(. 
~:of)::•~,0 
:i::ro COl_QI ~OSl'.llfn • • -.o tO(N'.11'1>. 
l i t~~ $Hlttf 
~QV
CO. IJOJ0:1 
•n.;(.SO.,) u 7-42(1l 
ru , U CU) U 0-701' 
UGl'lf<~~ 
HUl ~M"it-~ Cl~ 
S-00911:•/llot•N ll Sl.lllt 21i 
~ ~~;~J:.::,t 107 
r•l!: f.,~, ,~e-m, 
z 
c:( .... 
c.. 
I.I.I 
t:: 
Cl) 
..... 
I.I.I > 
I.I.I 
..... 
c::: 
I.I.I 
CL. 
CL. 
~ 
Note: these  plans were prepared and submitted in 2015 for the Site's existing SPAR entitlement (see PA2015-024).  In order to provide clarity for the current SPAR modification, we 
have annotated these plans to direct the City's attention to the first floor area of Building L that is the subject of this application.
No changes to 
existing site plan 
or parking 
supply are 
proposed by 
current SPAR 
modification 
application.

--- page 130 ---
STONE VENEER 
WllH HaEvco.-e 
8',Cl<tl(l 
COMPOSITE 
MCTAL 
PANEL 
AC(;£NT METAL PANEL 
SIMULATED WOOD FINISH 
0 ~~~ 
~-~FVATION OF Fl CAMINO RFAI 
CCMOfTITIOUO rANCL 
STONE VENEER 
WITH f«:JNEYCOMS 
""°""" 
ADHERED TTLE 
.AJRAGREYANISH 
COTECiAZt/RANl3H 
.M<»SElGEFNSH 
GUARORPJL 
ACCENT 
METAL 
PANEL 
CUFtTAlNWALL 
STONE VENEER 
WITH ~~ 
"""""" 
CEMEMTITtOOS 
PANtL 
ACCEHT 
METAL 
PANEL 
ACCEHT METAL PANEL 
CHANNEL 
GlASS 
SHEET REVISED FROM 
NOVEMBER 18, 2015 SUBMITTAL 
JANUARY 26, 2016 
ELS 
unmn,u u , ,uu 1u10 
HO I.KUQI l fl[((, HttltP, t.l JOI• 
,1:tMUlltll•t.lMUUC 
HILLSDALE NORTH 
BLOCK 
RECONFIGURATION 
HILLSDALE SrfOPPIHG CENTER 
201120 
BOHANHCN 
""""-""'""" 
COMPANY 
.s«'f'IJ1ffllW/IIW 
$MMl!Jt0.C.4....,. 
Olooliltt CONWLT111HS: 
V-"'OSC.u>C ,,.,::>111,t:T: 
UII~ 11111'11oi'1IQIUI., llWI:. 
,t)O CAW,US Otl:ft( 
Ntwl'Oat•~CA.t1MO 
"CL: (t•t) • 11 UN 
,... (t•,) .,.-<»-~• 
<:rv11. CJ!f0u.CU: 
~r.t. .Ir •.a.tt (ll(llti((llNl';, IH(., 
2•t~ 11'10-,S-llt!M,. f>~•"r 
NUTllO, f;,I, .,~q 
ltl.: ,,,o)U1-•oet 
r.t.X: 
(!110) U7- .Wl19 
C:rtC~t: ('fVl~wCM1'4l. ~'$; 
!tow.J!l 1'£0 Olllrifl 
Ill\ T[l,f;Q!I.P" A~ . 
O,u a ... u11, e,, h&r2 
II~: {~1CI) ~H M IO 
rooo C0011:1 M.,,..Dlli, ~ 
,ocNm~. 
Yl8[ 
11l2~$TlilU1' 
'°'-'lO(• !;O. toJtll 
ICL: (JOJ) u 7-82<1i 
r.u:1 O<U) U0-70H 
Uliff'l'•~ 
ML81JGH ING Cl\~ 
J(IOIJl&/ll'f.&NlT Sl.llll212 
Ulff'IU.NCISCO.<'At• 107 
ffL, (• 1!1) .!.&IJ- .01.S 
, .u:: <•1~) J•t~tm 
(/) 
C!J 
z 
C 
...I 
::::, 
CCI 
...I 
ct 
w 
cc: 
0 z 
~ 
ct 
c.., 
...I 
w 
(/) 
z 
0 
~ 
I.I.I 
...I 
w 
cc: 
0 
cc: 
I.I.I .... 
>< 
I.I.I 
Note: these  plans were prepared and submitted in 2015 for the Site's existing SPAR entitlement (see PA2015-024).  In order to provide clarity for the current SPAR 
modification, we have annotated these plans to direct the City's attention to the first floor area of Building L that is the subject of this application.
No exterior changes 
proposed.
These plans are 
submitted for the 
sole purpose of 
illustrating the 
Site's existing 
elevations and do 
not depict planned 
uses or tenants at 
the Site.
 
Project area is first floor only.
Project area is first floor only.

--- page 131 ---
.,,..,. 
EL.£VAfOft 
...... 
-·----·--
i; 
~f 
• I 
/ 
,. 
I 
> 
! 
:1 I H~t 
--1.Y~.
l~
,10,s 
1 •' ,_ -~I· 
f • I 
It · C71 · (:j 
~ 
-. 
. 
. 
. 
···--·-
eF,i'.?~b----I_ ---~--~ -__ --+---~- ~~------------------_-____ -_-__ -__ -_ -___ -___ ------- 11------_J 
..... 
~ 
~... 
.. 
... 
[] 
~ 
.... 
r-•• 
13 
S EL CAMINO REAL 
-_____ I ( 
,OJ , 
... -
-~ .,, •.l'J" 
...... 
b1,01~ ~i fl~l,.11(:{)U, 
-
-
-
-
., ... 
.. 
• • 
111 I 1 1 /' 
~-y 
-
' ,· 
t 
t 
., 
I 
I 
S EL CAMINO REAL 
AREAS 
IO FA.I Gll'IU);. U .VU.J'U,N CMA~(l.!.S lH CfA: 
• 6 l.O~:dGJUOOCD 
• 24,.10/ $1 Q,11, 0~¥Q!.l:p1U) 
'R72'3~f (iH,ll'tSOl:..T 
CiRll,l,\f, ~L"~L (;fA-JV ffitXiRA~. 
lllS,CCl~$1 A:Ni•ffllt,tl 
,,01" 
f ll-cr.ltf 
z.16$1 
Qli".-:t-11"..:lt l-t,ltlt11lp)' 
3,M)C ~ 
C.,,,111"100, ..-e.i 
IJl,2"8-l-,1 
:s.,,,lc"llo«~<lfhoW! 
1•4,i?1V 
P,,11~1 ... Gar~1,r 
E LS 
UUITtCTUI( o, n,u 1u10 
HUUCIUQII lr'f"IT, •nm;• t.l NJII 
, uuo.nn , l'ic.HJ.U:111 
n tj("ICIICb• 
HILLSDALE NORTH 
BLOCK 
RECONFIGURA T/ON 
fflLUDALE SHOPPING CENTER 
JOffZO 
50HA~HON 
o,vw,,..,,m 
COMPANY 
~ti,r,11!,VltAe 
$M-.,iff0,CA,UO, 
O"'t,i~ COHS-ULh lllk 
U,J<;OSC>M ~ll~Cl': 
Ullsi;&ll'tl,lll!l'Dl'1KJKAI.. L'C. 
•·UC ~,vs c:,.t.',t 
Kt'e!"Clala:A':H.Ut'MIO 
"[L: (9•9) ,,_ UN 
t u · (t• , )d•«-:J• 
CIVIi. (NO"'CU: 
l h t ... n f ,iclt,(llt!Nll, INC, 
JtllS INtl\rSllllM. ~~"T 
,1.1:nruo. ,;.o. tQ') 
1(1.! {)10) hl- • OIIIS 
FO , 
(!olllJ U7-.JGtt 
me~• t..:.,,10., .. un,,1. ~ 
... ~s· 
~olJl'L l'HIDUm'I 
IUI fU(Cf.i.P~ A'f(. 
Of.Ju.JIJ.il,C:,, h&rt 
IC~: (S10) SH M IO 
rooo covu W.¥<D06 •JoOO IClN!ffV • 
.., 
t1taKAAll.$TflUI 
tOfAC\• co, l!IOY,17 
l[\;(.soJ) u 1 ... 2fli 
OX1 0oJl 441>-101• 
UtltT"~ 
t,fL9'l,~l-fiw..01~ 
JOO IR.o./ll!tlo/li Ii Wit 2!2 
s ... 
~ flt,o.o!Cl'SCO. tJ, t • T01 
lrl, (,t!&}.!.UI- IIUl 
•~ll: f ~'~) ,~t•fm 
z 
:3 
0.. 
cc:: 
0 
0 ..... 
LI.. 
-I 
I.I.I 
> 
I.I.I _. 
LI.I 
Q 
c:[ 
cc:: 
c:, 
~ 
Cl) 
<C 
LI.I 
No exterior changes proposed.
These plans are submitted for 
the sole purpose of illustrating 
the Site's existing floor plan.  As 
noted by the application, the 
interior floor plan will change to 
accommodate up to 37,611 
square feet of office use, with the 
remainder dedicated to retail.
Note: these  plans were prepared and submitted in 2015 for the Site's existing SPAR entitlement (see PA2015-024).  In order to provide clarity for the current SPAR 
modification, we have annotated these plans to direct the City's attention to the first floor area of Building L that is the subject of this application.

--- page 132 ---
>PS 
.. ____ _ 
i-b 
-~---
au l 
arti n's 
• • 
~l:LSDALE NORTH 
BLOCK 
ONFIGURA TION 
REC 
CENTER 
HILLSDALE SHOPPING 
z 
ex 
....I 
g_ 
e,:, 
z 
~ 
0::: 
f 
Q 
LI.I 
0::: 
::, 
.... 
(.) 
::, 
0::: .... 
Cl) 
....I 
LI.I > 
LI.I 
....I 
LI.I 
Ci 
ex 
0::: 
e,:, 
No parking 
changes proposed.
These plans are 
submitted for the 
sole purpose of 
illustrating the 
Site's existing 
parking 
resources.  As 
noted by the 
application, even 
after approval of 
the current SPAR 
modification, the 
Site will remain 
adequately 
parked under the 
City's code.
Note: these  plans were 
prepared and submitted in 
2015 for the Site's existing 
SPAR entitlement (see 
PA2015-024).  In order to 
provide clarity for the current 
SPAR modification, we have 
annotated these plans to direct 
the City's attention to the first 
floor area of Building L that is 
the subject of this application.

--- page 133 ---
0 
I ~ 
d t ::i: ~ 
:A:--: & ft ~ 
q 
1- · :E ~ · 
~ 
& ft 
~
 
& 1t~
& 
--
-V-
I 
New elevators and stair 
with canopy to upJ)€r 
revel garage 
ies over 
New canop . locations 
existing stair 
1/ 
CREEN/ 
LIG HTS 
AT 
SOU ND WAL~F 
PERIMETEtECK, TYP. 
.PARK ING 
-
• • I • 
• 
0 
:
LSDALE NORTH 
BLOCK 
ONFIGURA TION 
RE~SHOPPIHG CENTER 
HILLS 
z 
:3 
c.. 
e,:, 
z 
S2 
cc: 
ct 
c.. 
C 
LI.I 
cc: 
::, 
t-
(.) 
::, 
cc: 
t-
en .... 
LI.I > 
LI.I .... 
cc: 
LI.I 
c.. 
c.. 
::, 
No parking 
changes proposed.
These plans are 
submitted for the 
sole purpose of 
illustrating the 
Site's existing 
parking 
resources.  As 
noted by the 
application, even 
after approval of 
the current SPAR 
modification, the 
Site will remain 
adequately 
parked under the 
City's code.
Note: these  plans were 
prepared and submitted in 
2015 for the Site's existing 
SPAR entitlement (see 
PA2015-024).  In order to 
provide clarity for the current 
SPAR modification, we have 
annotated these plans to direct 
the City's attention to the first 
floor area of Building L that is 
the subject of this application.

--- page 134 ---
PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT SITE: HILLSDALE MALL – NORTH BLOCK 
SMRH:4872-8476-0358.1 
-1-
 
CORNER OF N. SAILER DR. AND N. SAILER DR., LOOKING SOUTH-EASTWARD AT PROJECT SITE 
 
Project area is first 
floor only.  No 
exterior changes 
proposed.

--- page 135 ---
PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT SITE: HILLSDALE MALL – NORTH BLOCK 
 
SMRH:4872-8476-0358.1 
-2- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CORNER OF N. SAILER DR. AND N. SAILER DR., LOOKING EASTWARD TOWARD EL CAMINO REAL 
 
Project area is first 
floor only.  No 
exterior changes 
proposed.

--- page 136 ---
PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT SITE: HILLSDALE MALL – NORTH BLOCK 
 
SMRH:4872-8476-0358.1 
-3- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 N. SAILER DR., LOOKING SOUTH-EASTWARD TOWARD PROJECT SITE 
 
Project area is first 
floor only.  No 
exterior changes 
proposed.

--- page 137 ---
PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT SITE: HILLSDALE MALL – NORTH BLOCK 
 
SMRH:4872-8476-0358.1 
-4- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N. SAILER DR., LOOKING NORTH-WESTWARD WITH PROJECT SITE ON RIGHT 
 
Project area is first 
floor only.  No 
exterior changes 
proposed.

--- page 138 ---
PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT SITE: HILLSDALE MALL – NORTH BLOCK 
SMRH:4872-8476-0358.1 
-5-
N. SAILER DR., LOOKING EASTWARD WITH PROJECT SITE ON LEFT AND WEST ELM ON RIGHT
 
Project area is first 
floor only.  No 
exterior changes 
proposed.

--- page 139 ---
PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT SITE: HILLSDALE MALL – NORTH BLOCK 
SMRH:4872-8476-0358.1 
-6-
N. SAILER DR., LOOKING NORTH-WESTWARD WITH PROJECT SITE ON RIGHT
 
Project area is first 
floor only.  No 
exterior changes 
proposed.

--- page 140 ---
PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT SITE: HILLSDALE MALL – NORTH BLOCK 
 
SMRH:4872-8476-0358.1 
-7- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N. SAILER DR., LOOKING WESTWARD WITH PROJECT SITE IN FRONT 
 
Project area is first 
floor only.  No 
exterior changes 
proposed.

--- page 141 ---
PHOTOGRAPHS OF PROJECT SITE: HILLSDALE MALL – NORTH BLOCK 
SMRH:4872-8476-0358.1 
-8-
N. SAILER DR., LOOKING WESTWARD WITH PROJECT SITE ON RIGHT
 
Project area is first 
floor only.  No 
exterior changes 
proposed.

--- page 142 ---
COMMERCIAL DATA FORM 
NAME:  
Hillsdale Shopping Center 
North Block Reconfiguration 
PA : PA-2015-024 
(Updated in PA-2022-022) 
ADDRESS:  
Sixty 31st Avenue 
LAND AREA:  
531,432 sf (12.2 acres) 
ZONING: C2-2/Q5 Regional 
Community Commercial/Sub-Area A, 
Qualified Overlay District 5 
APN: 039-490-170 
FLOOR AREA 
With Parking Demand: 
  Retail & Food 
  Fitness 
  Office 
  Common Area Circulation 
SUBTOTAL 
  Cinema (804 seats) 
SUBTOTAL 
  Without Parking Demand: 
  Parking Garage 
  Loading Docks & Tunnel 
  Storage, Mechanical, etc. 
SUBTOTAL 
TOTAL 
 
 
177,675 140,064 
40,090 
16,656 54,267 
13,655 
248,076 
43,945 
292,021 
 
244,227 
21,101 
83,998 
349,326 
641,347 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,062,864 
F.A.R. 
1.2 with basement and parking garage 
2.0 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
El Camino Real frontage 
Interior 
Adjacent to residential 
 
53’ 
60’ 
35’ 
 
55’ 
60’ 
35’ 
STORIES:  
2 above grade 
1 below grade 
 
SETBACKS: 
  Front 
  Left Side 
  Right Side 
  Rear 
PROPOSED 
El Camino Real: 15’ – 20’ 
31st Ave: 15’ to 20’ 
80’ from Wells Fargo 
West of Edison: 6’ existing parking 
garage setback 
East of Edison: 0’ existing parking 
garage setback 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
Varies: 10’ to ½ height of bldg. per 
27.30.070(a)(2)(i-iii) 
 
 
 
 
 
PARKING: 
  Standard: 
  Compact (Maximum) 
  Disabled: 
TOTAL NORTH BLOCK 
TOTAL SHOPPING CENTER 
 
1,192 
203 
26 
1,421 
5,150 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
 
North Block: 1,029 (868 per 
3.6/1000 gfa, 161 per theater 
seats) 
Entire Shopping Center: 4,443 
(based on total 1,269,505 gfa) 
LOADING: 
10 
2 (10’ x 25’) 
BICYCLE: 
   Short Term: 
   Long Term: 
 
 
TOTAL SHORT TERM 
TOTAL LONG TERM 
 
30 
15 
0 
0 
30 
15 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
25 Short Term (1/10,000 sf) 
12 Long Term (1/20,000 sf) 
20 Short Term (1/40 Seats) 
11 Long Term (1/20 Seats) 
45 Short Term 
23 Long Term 
FLOOD ZONE: 
X Low Risk

--- page 143 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
                                                              
 
 
ADDENDUM TO HILLSDALE SHOPPING CENTER NORTH BLOCK REDEVELOPMENT  
INITIAL STUDY AND MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION (IS/MND) 
 
Project Name: 60 31st Ave., Hillsdale Shopping Center Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification 
Planning Application Number: PA-2022-022 
Address / APN: 60 31st Avenue / 039-490-170 
Project Planner: Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner 
Project Applicant: Bohannon Development Company 
Date: May of 2023 
 
Background 
Approved Project  
On March 7, 2016, the City Council approved a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), Site 
Development Planning Application (SDPA), and Special Use Permit (SUP) and adopted a Mitigated 
Negative Declaration for the Hillsdale Shopping Center North Block Redevelopment at 60 31st Ave. 
(“approved project”) under Planning Application number PA-2015-024. The approved project 
included a redevelopment of the 12.2 acre project site bound by 31st Avenue to the south; S. El 
Camino Real to the east, Flores Street to the west, and Edison Street to the north (“North Block”). 
 
The approved project proposed redevelopment of the North Block, which included reconstruction of 
existing two-story retail buildings; construction of two, two-story detached buildings at the 
northwest corner of S. El Camino Real and 31st Ave.; creation of an outdoor plaza and roof terraces; 
and creation of 1,375 off-street parking spaces in a two-level parking garage. The overall commercial 
project floor area included 177,675 square-feet of retail uses; 16,656 square-feet of office uses; 
40,090 square-feet of fitness uses; 43,945 square-feet of cinema uses; and 13,655 square-feet of 
common circulation area. 
 
An Initial study was prepared for the approved project in compliance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the CEQA Guidelines (California Code of Regulations §15000 et. 
seq.) and the regulations and policies of the City. The approved project’s Initial Study dated 
December 2015 concluded that the approved project, with implementation of the Mitigation 
Measures identified, would not have a significant effect on the environment. Based on this finding, a 
Mitigated Negative Declaration was prepared for the approved project, and the Planning Commission 
approved resolutions adopting and approving the Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
(IS/MND), as well as the associated Mitigation and Monitoring Report Plan (MMRP). 
 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
                                            330 West 20th Avenue 
 
                                             San Mateo, CA 94403 
                               www.cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 144 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
Proposed Project 
The applicant has submitted a Planning Application Modification to enable 37,611 square-feet of 
retail space (identified as Building L in the project plans) to be used for either office uses or retail 
uses (“proposed project”). No changes to the site plan, off-street parking supply, floor area, or 
building exterior are proposed. 
 
Purpose 
The purpose of this Addendum is to document the proposed changes in the approved project and 
evaluate whether the proposed project would result in new or more significant environmental 
impacts disclosed in the 2015 IS/MND. Based on the analysis presented in this document, the 
proposed project qualifies for an Addendum in accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15164 
which states that “A lead agency or responsible agency shall prepare an addendum to a previously 
certified EIR (or negative declaration) if some changes or additions are necessary but none of the 
conditions described in CEQA Guidelines Section 15162 calling for preparation of a subsequent EIR 
(or Negative Declaration) have occurred.”  Circumstances which would warrant a subsequent EIR or 
negative declaration include substantial changes in the project or new information of substantial 
importance which would require major revisions of the previous EIR (or Negative Declaration) due to 
the occurrence of new significant impacts and/or a substantial increase in the severity of previously 
identified significant effects.   
 
Summary of Findings 
The City of San Mateo, as the Lead Agency, has prepared this Addendum to the 2015 IS/MND in 
compliance with CEQA, the CEQA Guidelines (California Code of Regulations §15000 et. seq.) and the 
regulations and policies of the City. Given the proposed changes and the existing environmental 
conditions, the City has concluded that the proposed project would not result in any new impacts not 
previously disclosed in the 2015 IS/MND or a substantial increase in the severity of previously 
disclosed impacts.  
 
The analysis below evaluates any specific potential environmental impacts of the proposed project 
and consistency of these potential impacts with previous analyses conducted as part of the 2015 
IS/MND. The proposed project would not result in any new significant environmental effects, as 
identified below for several resource areas. 
 
1. Aesthetics 
The proposed project does not propose any exterior changes. As such, the proposed project 
would not result in impacts to aesthetics. 
 
2. Agriculture and Forestry Resources 
No changes in the agricultural and forestry resource setting have occurred since 2015. The 
proposed project does not propose any tree removals or landscaping alterations and would 
thus not result in impacts to agriculture and forestry resources. 
 
3. Air Quality 
The proposed project does not include any expansions and would generate fewer average 
daily trips (993 less than original proposal). Therefore, there would be no additional Air 
Quality impacts.  
 
4. Biological Resources

--- page 145 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
The project is located in a highly urbanized area that has been completely altered by past 
development and no longer supports any natural habitat. No exterior changes are proposed, 
and as such, the proposed project would not result in impacts to biological resources. 
 
5. Cultural Resources 
The project would have no significant impact to cultural resources in that the site is within a 
“low sensitivity” zone as determined by a 1983 archaeological survey conducted by David 
Chavez. The proposed project would not result in any soil disturbance or exterior building 
alterations. As such, the proposed project would not result in impacts to cultural resources.  
 
6. Geology and Soils 
The proposed project would not result in any soil disturbance, and as such, would not result 
in impacts to geology and soils. 
 
7. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 
The project is not considered “new development” under the City’s adopted 2020 CAP and 
therefore would have less than significant GHG emissions.  
 
8. Hazards and Hazardous Materials 
The 2015 IS/MND included implementation of a health risk assessment to reduce impacts 
from residual environmental contamination associated with a former gasoline station 
identified as a “closed” leaking underground storage tank (LUST) site. Since 2015, the 
approved project has completed construction. The proposed project occurs within an existing 
building and would not cause soil disturbance. As such, the proposed project would not result 
in impacts to hazards and hazardous materials. 
 
9. Hydrology and Water Quality 
The proposed project occurs within an existing building, would not result in new impervious 
surface creation, and, as such, would not result in impacts to hydrology and water quality. 
 
10. Land Use and Planning 
No changes in the land use and planning setting have occurred since 2015, apart from the 
completion of the transportation improvements in the approved project. The proposed 
project results in interior improvements to an existing building that are consistent with the 
City’s General Plan and other land use policies, and, as such, would not result in impacts to 
land use and planning. 
 
11. Mineral Resources 
The proposed project would include interior improvements, and as such, would not result in 
impacts to mineral resources. 
 
12. Noise 
No changes in the existing noise environment have occurred since 2015, and the approved 
project construction that results in noise exceedances have since been completed. The 
construction activity required for the proposed project would be much smaller in scale and 
would occur within an existing building. The operational and traffic-generated noise of the 
proposed project would be substantially similar to that of the approved project in that the

--- page 146 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
proposed project would enable existing retail space to be used for office purposes. As such, 
the proposed project would not result in impacts to noise. 
 
13. Population and Housing 
The proposed project would allow the existing retail space to be used for retail or office use 
but would not result in impacts to population and housing in comparison with the approved 
project. 
 
14. Public Services 
The proposed project provides flexibility to use the existing commercial space either as office 
or retail but does not propose any expansions. As such, it would not result in impacts to 
public services. 
 
15. Recreation 
The 2015 IS/MND concluded that the approved project would have no significant impact to 
recreation resources in that the approved project results in new commercial uses that 
increased daytime population through visitors and employees as opposed to new residential 
population growth that could result in deterioration of a recreational facility. The proposed 
project maintains the existing commercial use and, as such, would not result in impacts to 
recreation resources. 
 
16. Transportation and Traffic 
The 2015 IS/MND concluded that the approved project would have less than significant 
impacts to transportation and traffic through implementation of a Mitigation Measure to 
install a four-way stop or traffic signal at the intersection of E. Sailer Drive and 31st Avenue to 
reduce vehicle and pedestrian conflicts at this intersection. A traffic signal has been 
implemented as part of the construction of the approved project. In addition, the 2015 
IS/MND required adherence to an ongoing Mitigation Measure requiring the applicant to 
employ a traffic consultant to monitor the E. Sailer Drive and 31st Avenue crosswalks during 
peak periods. 
 
Since 2015, the State of California enacted Senate Bill (SB) 743 that establishes vehicle-miles-
traveled (VMT) as the criteria for determining the significance of transportation impacts. The 
City also adopted new Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Guidelines in 2020 to implement 
VMT as the metric for CEQA analysis and to establish screening criteria that, if met, would 
result in the project having a less than significant VMT impact under CEQA. Projects that do 
not meet screening criteria are subject to the TIA Guidelines’ thresholds of significance for 
comparison in quantified VMT analyses to determine significance. 
 
To evaluate the proposed project’s transportation impacts, the applicant has submitted a Trip 
Generation Memo prepared by Kimley Horn. The Trip Generation Memo concluded that the 
proposed project would not cause additional level of service deficiencies and would result in a 
net reduction of 993 daily trips, an increase of 23 AM peak hour trips, and a reduction of 80 
PM peak hour trips when compared to the land uses in the approved project.  
 
The Trip Generation Memo also included a complete VMT analysis, given that the proposed 
project did not meet any of the criteria to qualify for an exemption in the City’s TIA 
Guidelines. A VMT analysis was conducted for each land use (retail and office), which found

--- page 147 ---
Building Division (650) 522-7172 · Code Enforcement Division (650) 522-7150 
Housing Division (650) 522-7220 · Planning Division (650) 522-7212 · General (650) 522-7200  
 
that the proposed project would reduce the retail component’s VMT given that the proposed 
project reduces the retail floor area by 37,611 square-feet. The Trip Generation Memo also 
concluded that the office component results in 13.3 VMT per employee, which is below the 
impact threshold of 15.3 VMT per employee, through Transportation Demand Management 
(TDM) measures for the office uses. As required by Conditions of Approval, the applicant will 
implement and monitor results of the TDM Plan, which includes measures for public transit 
passes or subsidies; and bicycle repair station or toolkits that are made available to the 
proposed office use.  
 
17. Utilities and Service Systems 
The proposed project maintains the existing commercial use and proposes no additional 
square footage, as such, would not result in new impacts to utilities and service systems.

--- page 148 ---
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
MEMORANDUM 
To: 
Robert Webster 
Bohannon Development Company 
 
From: 
Mike Mowery P.E. and Elizabeth Chau, P.E. 
Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. 
Date: 
April 14, 2023 
Subject: 
Hillsdale North Block Trip Generation Analysis 
In 2016, the City of San Mateo (City) granted Bohannon Development Company (Bohannon) approval 
for the Hillsdale North Block Redevelopment which allowed for retail and restaurant uses. Bohannon is 
proposing that office use be allowed for a portion of Building L in the North Block area. This 
memorandum summarizes the result of a trip generation analysis and level of service review for the 
proposed change.    
Background 
Hillsdale Shopping Center is located adjacent to El Camino Real between 29th Avenue and Hillsdale 
Boulevard in San Mateo, California. The “North Block” area of the shopping center consists of buildings 
located between 29th Avenue and 31st Avenue. The proposed change is in Building L, located between 
El Camino Real and Sailer Drive, north of 31st Avenue as shown in Figure 1. 
 
Figure 1: Hillsdale North Block

--- page 149 ---
Page 2 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Bohannon is proposing that 41,289 square-foot of the lower level of the Building L consist of: 
• 
37,611 square feet office 
• 
3,678 square feet retail    
There are no leasable square footage changes anticipated due to this proposed change. The 
proposed floor plan is included as Attachment A.  
Trip Generation 
A trip generation analysis was conducted to determine the change in the number of trips between the 
2016 approved uses and the proposed uses. The trip generation was determined based on average 
rates from Institute of Transportation Engineer’s (ITE) publication, Trip Generation, 11th Edition.  
ITE Trip Generation, 11th Edition is a standard reference used by jurisdictions throughout the country 
for the estimation of trip generation potential of proposed projects. This resource provides trip rates 
based on land use. Even through the square footage of the approach and proposed retail use is less 
than 150,000 square feet, Land Use 820: Shopping Center (>150k) was assumed because the Project 
is part of the Hillsdale Shopping Center, a regional shopping mall. Land Use 710: General Office 
Building was assumed for the proposed office use.  
For certain land uses such as retail and restaurant, pass-by trip reductions are typically considered to 
account for trips that would already be on the road and would likely stop as they pass by the site. 
However, to be consistent with the 2015 transportation impact analysis (TIA)1, no pass-by trip reduction 
was assumed. 
Internal capture reductions were considered to account for the interaction between the retail and office 
uses. The standard engineering reference for determining internal capture reductions for the proposed 
land uses is the ITE Trip Generation Handbook, 3rd Edition. ITE methodology does not include 
calculations for daily trips, therefore an average percentage of the AM and PM peak hours were used.   
As shown in Table 1, the proposed project would generate a net -993 daily, +23 AM peak, and -80 PM 
peak hour trips compared to the land uses approved in 2016.  
 
 
 
1 Hexagon Transportation Consultants, Inc. Hillsdale Shopping Center North Block Redevelopment 
Transportation Impact Analysis. November 2015

--- page 150 ---
Page 3 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Table 1: Lower Level Building L Approved and Proposed Trip Generation Comparison 
ITE Land Use Code 
Size 
Size 
Daily 
Trips 
AM Peak 
PM Peak 
Rate 
In% 
Out% 
Rate 
In% 
Out% 
710 
General Office Building 
1,000 Sq Ft 
10.84 
1.52 
88% 
12% 
1.44 
17% 
83% 
820 
Shopping Center (>150k) 
1,000 Sq Ft GLA 
37.01 
0.84 
62% 
38% 
3.40 
48% 
52% 
Scenario 
ITE Land 
Use 
Code 
Land Use 
Size 
Units 
Daily 
Trips1 
AM Peak 
PM Peak 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Existing 
820 
Shopping Center (>150k) 
41.289 
1,000 Sq Ft GLA 
1,528 
35 
22 
13 
140 
67 
73 
Total Existing Trips 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Proposed 
  
710 
General Office Building 
37.611 
1,000 Sq Ft 
408 
57 
50 
7 
57 
10 
47 
820 
Shopping Center (>150k) 
3.678 
1,000 Sq Ft GLA 
136 
3 
2 
1 
3 
1 
2 
Proposed Subtotal 
544 
60 
52 
8 
60 
11 
49 
Internal Capture1 
-9 
-2 
-1 
-1 
0 
0 
0 
Proposed External Trips 
535 
58 
51 
7 
60 
11 
49 
Difference (Proposed - Approved) 
-993 
23 
29 
-6 
-80 
-56 
-24 
Source: ITE Trip Generation, 11th Edition 
1 Internal Capture calculated using ITE Trip Generation Handbook, 3rd Edition methodology. Trip Generation Handbook does not provide daily 
internal capture; therefore the average AM and PM reduction were assumed.

--- page 151 ---
Page 4 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Level of Service Review 
Kimley-Horn reviewed the 2015 TIA to determine if the proposed change would result in any significant 
changes to the level of service (LOS) of near-by intersections. The 2015 TIA found that all eight (8) 
study intersections would operate at LOS D or better in the PM peak hour for the Cumulative Plus 
Project conditions. The LOS for the AM peak hour was not evaluated. It is anticipated that the proposed 
change would not increase delay since the project would result in a decrease of trips during the PM 
peak hour. Although the AM peak hour was not previously evaluated, it is reasonably assumed that the 
project 23 additional trips based on the proposed change would not result in a new intersection 
deficiency. It should also be noted that this increase in trips is lower than the City’s 100 trip threshold2 
for analyzing an intersection. 
VMT Screening  
As of July 1, 2020, the State of California has fully adopted a change in the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) significant impact methodology for transportation impacts to use vehicle miles 
traveled (VMT) as opposed to level of service (LOS) via State Bill 743 (SB 743). To address this change, 
the City of San Mateo developed Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines. This document provides 
screening criteria to determine if VMT analysis is required for land use projects. A project may be 
exempt from performing VMT analysis if the project meets at least one screening criteria based on: 
• 
Small Project 
• 
Affordable Housing 
• 
Local-serving retail 
• 
Project located in High-Quality Area (HQTA) 
• 
Project located in a low VMT area 
For a mixed-use project, either the dominant use (use generates 80% of total daily trips) or each 
component are evaluated independently. Based on Table 1, neither retail nor office would be 
considered a dominate use, therefore each land use was evaluated independently.    
Results of the VMT land use screening are summarized in Table 2. Based on the current Project 
information given for this analysis, both land uses do not meet any VMT screening criteria and would 
need to complete a VMT analysis. Detailed evaluation for each criterion is discussed in the following 
sections. 
 
 
 
 
2 City of San Mateo, Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines. July 2020

--- page 152 ---
Page 5 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Table 2: VMT Screening Summary 
VMT Screening Criteria 
Criterion Met? 
Office 
 Retail 
Small Project 
No 
No 
Affordable Housing 
N/A 
N/A 
Local-serving Retail 
N/A 
No 
Project located in High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA) 
No 
No 
Project located in a low VMT area 
No 
No 
Small Project 
Small projects are defined as projects that generate less than 110 average daily trips. An average of 
110 average daily trips roughly equates to: 
• 
10 single family residential units 
• 
11 multifamily residential units 
• 
11,000 square feet of office 
As shown in Table 1, both land uses generated more than 110 average daily trips and do not meet 
this criterion.  
Affordable Housing 
Affordable housing consists of residential projects with 100 percent deed restricted affordable 
housing. The criterion is not applicable for the Project since there are no components that fits this 
description. 
Local-serving Retail 
Local-serving retail develops are less than 50,000 square feet gross floor area and primarily provide 
goods and services that most people need on a regular basis and are purchase close to where 
people live. Examples of local-serving retail include groceries, medicine, fast-foot and casual 
restaurant, and fitness and beauty services.  
Even though the retail component of the Project is less than 50,000 square foot, the Project is part of 
the Hillsdale Shopping Center, which is a regional mall and does not meet this criterion.  
High-Quality Transit Area (HQTA)  
A detailed VMT analysis is not required for developments within high-quality transit area (HQTA). Based 
on the City’s HQTA map, Figure 2, the project is located in the HQTA. It should be noted that the HQTA 
screening is not applicable if the project: 
• 
Has floor Area Ratio (FAR) of less than 0.75 
• 
Includes more parking for use by residents, customers, or employees of the project than 
required by the jurisdiction

--- page 153 ---
Page 6 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
• 
Is inconsistent with the applicable MTC sustainable Communities Strategies (SCS), as 
determined by the City or,  
• 
Replaces affordable residential units with a smaller number of moderate- or high-income 
residential units.  
The parking requirement for North Block area is 1,029 spaces and 4,443 for the overall shopping center. 
There are 1,375 spaces in the North Block area and the overall shopping center provides 4,982 spaces. 
The Project does not qualify as HQTA since both North Block and the overall shopping center provide 
more parking than required. 
 
Source: City of San Mateo, Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines, 2020 (Attachment A – High-Quality Transit Areas) 
Figure 2: Except of City’s High-Quality Transit Area Map 
 
 
Project 
Site

--- page 154 ---
Page 7 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Low VMT area 
Developments located in a TAZ that generates VMT below the City’s threshold (15 percent lower than 
County average or 15.3 VMT per employee) may be exempt. As shown in Figure 3, the VMT for the 
Project’s TAZ generates more than City’s threshold and does not satisfy this criterion.  
 
  
Source: City of San Mateo, Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines, 2020 (Attachment B – Average VMT per Employee by 
TAZ, VMT per Employee Labeled) 
Figure 3: Except of City’s VMT per Employee Map 
 
 
Project 
Site

--- page 155 ---
Page 8 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
VMT Analysis 
Based on Table 2, neither land use meets the VMT screening criteria and a VMT analysis is required. 
For a mixed-use project, either the dominant use (use generates 80% of total daily trips) or each 
component are evaluated independently. Based on Table 1, neither retail nor office would be 
considered a dominate use, therefore each land use was evaluated independently.    
Retail 
For retail, a significant impact occurs if the Project causes a net increase in total VMT. Since the retail 
component of the Project is reducing retail space from 41,239 to 3,678 square feet, this would result 
in a reduction in total retail VMT and there will not be a significant impact.  
Office 
Table 3 summarizes the Office VMT for the project. For office, a significant impact occurs if the Project 
VMT/employee is greater than 15% percent below the existing San Mateo County average (18.0 VMT 
per employee) which equates to an impact threshold of 15.3 VMT per employee. As shown in Figure 
3, the Project’s VMT without any TDM VMT reduction is 15.6, which exceeds the City’s threshold. The 
project would need to implement TDM measures to reduce its VMT per employee by 0.3 or 2%.  
To mitigate the VMT impact, a TDM program (Attachment B) for the office use was developed. The 
office TDM program incorporates elements from the current  Hillsdale Shopping Center TDM program 
for retail uses. Based on the office TDM plan, it is anticipated that the TDM measures would result in a 
15% VMT reduction or 13.3 VMT per employee. With the implementation of the TDM program the 
Project VMT per employee will be less than the City’s threshold of 15.3 and would not result in a 
significant impact.  
Table 3: Office VMT Summary 
 
VMT/employee 
San Mateo County Average 
18.0 
Impact Threshold 
15.3 
Project (w/o TDM)  
15.6 
Project (w TDM) 
13.3 
 
Office TDM Program Effectiveness 
The anticipated effectiveness of the office TDM program for the Project was estimated using Mobility 
Lab TDM-ROI Calculator. The TDM-ROI Calculator provides estimate in the reduction of vehicle trips 
and VMT. 
The tool estimates TDM effectiveness based on inputs such as transportation information, TDM 
program elements, and number of participants. The number of participants was based on the number 
of employees calculated in Table 4 and mode split shown in Table 5. For Table 5, mode split is based

--- page 156 ---
Page 9 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
on existing City’s work commute mode split, which may underrepresent the amount of transit riders 
since the Project is located within 0.25 miles from the Hillsdale Caltrain Station.   
Table 4: Number of Employees 
Land Use 
Employee per SF 
Square Feet 
# Employees 
Typical Range 
Average 
Office 
125-175 
150 
37,611 
251 
Note: Number of employees was calculated based on average employee per square feet. 
Table 5: Project Initial Mode Split 
Mode 
Mode Split % 
Person Trips  
SOV 
74% 
185 
Carpool 
9% 
23 
Transit 
11% 
28 
Bicycle 
1% 
3 
Walk 
3% 
7 
Other 
2% 
5 
Total 
100% 
251 
 
Table 6 summaries the anticipated reduction in number of trip and VMT for each element in the TDM 
plan. It should be noted that TDM-ROI Calculator provides a range in reduction to reflect how the TDM 
effectiveness may shift over time. In the beginning many TDM programs are less effective as 
employees may be unaware of the TDM program elements available to them. The TDM program may 
become more effective as marketing and information spreads and elements are refined to be more 
robust and reliable. As shown in Table 6 it is anticipated that TDM measures would result in 57-147 
trip reduction or 1,103-3,121 VMT reduction. Table 7 summaries the TDM percent reduction results 
from the TDM-ROI Calculator analysis compared to the base, with no adjustment totals. It is anticipated 
that the TDM program would result in a 16-41% trip and 15-43% VMT reduction. Results of the Lab 
TDM-ROI Calculator are included as Attachment C.  
As discussed, the Project VMT per employee of 15.6 exceeds the City’s threshold of 15.3. Based on 
the VMT reduction shown in Table 7, it is anticipated that the in the beginning the TDM plan would 
reduce Project VMT by 15% or 13.3 VMT per employee which satisfies the City’s VMT threshold.

--- page 157 ---
Page 10 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Table 6: Trip and VMT reduction by TDM Element 
TDM Element 
C/CAG 
Measure 
ID 
# 
Participants1 
Lower Bound 
Upper Bound 
Trip 
VMT 
Trip 
VMT 
Core Commute Information/Assistance 
Carpool ride matching 
1,4,5 
12 
0 
9 
1 
18 
Comprehensive commute 
assistance 
3,4 
251 
18 
334 
36 
669 
Vanpool formation 
1,4,5 
12 
1 
46 
5 
203 
Guaranteed/Emergency Ride Home 
4 
66 
1 
22 
10 
176 
Commute program website 
3,4 
251 
2 
39 
4 
79 
Commute challenges/events 
3,4 
75 
0 
1 
1 
11 
General marketing 
3,4 
251 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Financial Measures 
Ongoing transit incentive 
6,7 
28 
11 
146 
12 
162 
Ongoing multi-modal incentive 
6,7,8 
15 
8 
147 
9 
163 
Alternative mode "try it" incentive 
4,6,7 
185 
9 
163 
40 
723 
Area-wide vanpool incentive 
4,5 
23 
3 
153 
15 
679 
New Mode Options2 
On-demand, dynamic ride match 
3,4 
23 
0 
0 
0 
2 
Commuter express bus 
3,4 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Non-express bus 
3,4 
27 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Bike commute program 
3,4,8,9,24 
3 
0 
1 
0 
2 
Employer Program Support 
Employer Services (Low/Moderate) 
1,3,4,5,8, 
9,24,25 
251 
2 
35 
6 
87 
Telework 
3,4 
126 
0 
4 
6 
98 
Compressed work schedule 
3,4 
126 
0 
2 
3 
49 
Total 
- 
- 
57 
1,103 
147 
3,121 
1 An employees can participate in more than one TDM element. 
2 New Mode Options consist of promotion and/or operation of alternative modes for commuters. 
 
Table 7: Vehicle Trips and VMT Reduction Percentage 
Mode 
Trips 
% Reduction 
VMT 
% Reduction 
Base No 
Adjustment 
358 
- 
7,293 
- 
TDM Reduction 
(lower bound) 
57 
16% 
1,103 
15% 
TDM Reduction 
(upper bound) 
147 
41% 
3,121 
43%

--- page 158 ---
Page 11 
kimley-horn.com 
4637 Chabot Drive, Suite 300, Pleasanton, CA 94588 
925-398-4840 
 
Conclusion 
In 2016 the City of San Mateo approved retail and restaurant uses for the Hillsdale North Block 
Redevelopment project. Currently Bohannon is proposing that 37,611 square feet on the lower level of 
Building L be allowed for office use. Kimley-Horn conducted a trip generation analysis and reviewed 
the 2015 transportation impact analysis to determine if the proposed change would result in additional 
level of service (LOS) impacts. The proposed change would result in net -993 daily, +23 AM, and -80 
PM peak hour trips and no new additional LOS deficiencies would result from this change in use. 
City’s VMT land use screening criteria were reviewed to determine if further VMT analysis is required. 
For this analysis the office and retail components were evaluated independently. Based on the current 
Project information given for this analysis, both land uses do not meet any of the screening criteria.  
VMT analysis was conducted for each land use separately since neither land use generations more 
than 80% of the daily trips. There is not a significant impact for the retail component because there will 
be a reduction in VMT due to decreasing the amount of retail from existing condition. For the office 
component, the City’s VMT maps show 15.6 VMT per employee, which exceeds the City’s threshold of 
15.3. However, the Project updated its TDM program to include the office component, which would 
result in a 15% reduction in VMT. This result in a 13.3 VMT which is less than the City’s threshold and 
would not result in a significant impact.  
 
Attachment A – Floor Plan  
Attachment B – Hillsdale Shopping Center North Block – Building L Professional Office Transportation 
Demand Management Plan  
Attachment C – TDM-ROI Calculator Results

--- page 159 ---
BUILDING L
LOWER LEVEL FLOOR PLAN
41,289 SF
BUILDING L - LOWER LEVEL AREA PLAN
APRIL 30, 2021
 
1,499 sf
1,499 sf
50'6"
29'68"
37,611 sf
50'6"
Attachment A

--- page 160 ---
Hillsdale Shopping Center North Block – 
Building L Professional Office 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan 
 
March 31, 2023 
 
Attachment B

--- page 161 ---
ii | P a g e  
 
Contents 
1. 
Introduction .................................................................................................................................... 3 
1.1. 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Background and Policies .................................... 3 
1.1.1. 
City/County Association of Governments of San Mato County (C/CAG)............................. 3 
1.1.2. 
City of San Mateo ............................................................................................................. 3 
2. 
Project Setting ................................................................................................................................. 5 
2.1. 
Existing Transit Service ............................................................................................................. 5 
2.1.1. 
SamTrans ......................................................................................................................... 5 
2.1.2. 
Caltrain............................................................................................................................. 6 
2.2. 
Existing Bicycle and Pedestrian Facilities .................................................................................. 7 
2.2.1. 
Bicycle Facilities ................................................................................................................ 7 
2.2.2. 
Pedestrian Facilities .......................................................................................................... 7 
2.3. 
Existing Mode Split ................................................................................................................... 7 
3. 
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Program .................................................................... 8 
3.1. 
Framework ............................................................................................................................... 8 
3.1.1. 
TDM Coordinator.............................................................................................................. 8 
3.1.2. 
Transportation Management Association (TMA) Membership .......................................... 8 
3.2. 
Education ................................................................................................................................. 8 
3.2.1. 
Welcome Packets & Newsletter ........................................................................................ 8 
3.2.2. 
Hillsdale Shopping Center Website ................................................................................... 9 
3.2.3. 
Customer Service Centers ................................................................................................. 9 
3.2.4. 
Commute.org ................................................................................................................... 9 
3.3. 
Program Elements .................................................................................................................... 9 
4. 
Monitoring and Evaluation............................................................................................................. 13 
4.1. 
Review of TDM Plan ............................................................................................................... 13 
4.2. 
Monitoring ............................................................................................................................. 13 
4.2.1. 
Biannual Travel Survey ................................................................................................... 13 
4.3. 
Evaluation .............................................................................................................................. 13

--- page 162 ---
3 | P a g e  
 
1. Introduction 
This document presents an update to the current Transportation Demand Management (“TDM”) plan for 
the Hillsdale Shopping Center North Block (“Project”), which is a mixed-used development located in San 
Mateo (“City”), California. This TDM is for the professional office use in Building L within the mixed-use 
development.  
1.1. Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Background and Policies 
This TDM plan was developed to meet County and City requirements.  
1.1.1. 
City/County Association of Governments of San Mato County (C/CAG) 
C/CAG’s Transportation Demand Management Policy Implementation Guide requires development 
that generate at least 100 average daily trips (ADT) is subjected to C/CAG’s TDM policy and must 
complete a TDM Checklist, as well as conduct regular monitoring and reporting. 
The office use for the proposed Building L is considered a “small” project and a transit-oriented 
development (TOD). TOD has a trip reduction target of 25%. 
1.1.2. 
City of San Mateo 
1.1.2.1. 
Mitigation for VMT impacts 
As of July 1, 2020, the State of California has fully adopted a change in the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) significant impact methodology for transportation impacts to use vehicle miles 
traveled (VMT) as opposed to level of service (LOS) via State Bill 743 (SB 743). To address this change, 
the City of San Mateo developed Transportation Impact Analysis Guidelines.  
A VMT analysis was completed for the Project and found that the baseline VMT per employee for the 
Project (15.6 VMT per employee) would exceed the City’s threshold of 15.3 VMT per employee. This 
TDM plan is required to mitigation VMT impacts of the Project.    
1.1.2.2. 
Hillsdale Station Area Plan 
The Hillsdale Station Area Plan (HSAP) encompassing roughly 150 acres surrounding the Hillsdale 
Caltrain Station such. The HSAP includes the following TDM-related polices: 
Policy TRA-4.1: New development on properties in the Station Area must develop a Trip Reduction and 
Parking Management Program, following the recommendation in Appendix A of this Plan, including 
implementing the required and optional measures for both employers and residential developments. 
The Hillsdale Shopping Center shall complete such a program but may make implementation optional 
for employers that are tenants of the Shopping Center.  
Policy TRA-4.2: Expand the Transportation Management Association (TMA) formed under the Rail 
Corridor Plan to include all properties withing the Stations Area and require that all new development 
join the TMA. The Hillsdale Shopping Center’s participate in the TMA will consist of optional measures, 
but it will not be subjected to the TMA’s trip reduction goals.

--- page 163 ---
4 | P a g e  
 
1.1.2.3. 
San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan  
The San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan aims to create TOD within a half-
mile of Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain station. The Hillsdale Shopping Center is outside the TOD 
zone boundary. This plan includes the following TDM policy: 
Policy 7.19: All development within the TOD zone shall be required to submit trip reduction and 
parking management plan as part of the development application. Projects outside the TOD zone, 
but within the Corridor Plan area shall be strongly encouraged to submit this trip reduction and 
parking management information as part of the development application. The zoning code shall be 
modified to establish a threshold defining project such as remodeling or additions to existing 
development within the Corridor Plan area that trigger the TDM requirement.  
1.1.2.4. 
Hillsdale Shopping Center North Block Reconfiguration Transportation 
Management Plan (TMP) 
The Hillsdale Shopping Center North Block Reconfiguration Transportation Management Plan (TMP), 
dated November 2015, was develop as part of the North Block Reconfiguration project. This 
document provides TDM measure to encourage trip reduction for the North Block area. Some of 
these TDM measures include:
• 
Site design (sidewalk, pedestrian 
crossing, etc.) 
• 
Onsite Amenities 
• 
Clean air vehicle parking 
• 
Bicycle parking 
• 
TDM Coordinator  
• 
Website information 
• 
Transit Information Kiosks 
• 
Welcome Packet for new tenants 
• 
TMA membership (emergency ride 
home, carpool/vanpool incentives, 
shuttle program, commute 
employer incentive program) 
It is anticipated that the TMP continues to apply to all retail uses.

--- page 164 ---
5 | P a g e  
 
2. Project Setting 
This section provides additional information on the existing transit service and bicycle facilities near the 
Project site, as well as existing commuting trends.   
2.1. Existing Transit Service  
The Project is located within 0.25-mile (10-minute walk) from the Hillsdale Caltrain Station and bus stops 
along El Camino Road, a high-quality transit corridor, as shown in Figure 3. Table 2 presents existing transit 
service.  
2.1.1. 
SamTrans 
SamTrans provide multiple bus routes through San Mateo County. Project employees and patrons 
may access these bus stops at bus stops located El Camino Real near 27th Avenue, 31st Avenue, and 
Hillsdale Boulevard. There are three bus stops along El Camino Real. Two are located near 31st Avenue 
and one near Hillsdale Boulevard. Bus routes 57, 251, 256, 294, 295, 397 and ECR service these bus 
stops.  
2.1.2. 
Commute.org Shuttle 
Commute.org provides first-last mile shuttle services between transit stations and major destinations 
such as workplaces, hospital, schools, commercial areas, and residential areas throughout San Mateo 
County. Near the Project, three shuttle lines (Campus Drive, Lincoln Centre, and Mariners’) operates 
Mondays through Fridays during the morning (6:40-9:25 AM) and evening (3:45-6:45 PM) periods and  
is free for all passenger and is open to the public. The closest Commute.org shuttle stop is at the 
Hillsdale Caltrain Station.   
 
Figure 1: Proximity to Transit

--- page 165 ---
6 | P a g e  
 
Table 1: Existing Transit Service 
Route 
Description 
Weekday 
Weekend 
Operating 
Hours1 
Headway2 (minutes) 
Operating 
Hours1 
Headway2 
(minutes) 
Weekday 
Peak 
Weekday 
Off-Peak 
SamTrans 
51 
Foster City – Hillsdale HS 
-3 
- 
- 
No weekend services 
57 
Edgewater/Beach Park – 
Hillsdale High 
-3 
- 
- 
No weekend services 
250 
San Mateo Caltrain – 
College of San Mateo 
6:00 AM to 
10:55 PM 
30 
30-60 
7:30 AM to 
8:30 PM  
60 
251 
Foster City – Hillsdale Mall 6:40 AM to 
8:25 PM 
60 
60 
7:30 AM to 
7:15 PM 
60 
294 
Hilldale – Half Moon Bay 
6:55 AM to 
9:55 PM 
60 
60-120 
7:40 AM to 
9:40 PM 
60 
397 
San Francisco – Palo Alto 
Transit Center (Limited 
Overnight Service) 
1:50 AM to 
5:45 AM 
- 
45-60 
1:50 AM to 
5:45 AM 
45-60 
ECR 
Daly City BART – Palo Alto 
Transit Center 
4:35 AM to 
1:15 AM4 
15 
15-30 
5:20 AM to 
1:45 AM4 
15-30 
Commute.org Shuttle 
CAM 
Campus Drive (Hillsdale 
Caltrain) 
6:40 to 8:40 AM; 
3:45 to 6:45 PM 
60 
- 
No weekend services 
LC 
Lincoln Centre (Hillsdale 
Caltrain) 
7:05 to 9:05 AM; 
3:50 PM to 5:50 
PM  
60 
- 
No weekend services 
MAR 
Mariners’ Island (Hillsdale 
Caltrain) 
6:45 to 9:25 AM; 
4:45 to 6:30 PM  
45-60 
- 
No weekend services 
Caltrain 
Northbound 
Gilroy – San Francisco 
5:20 AM to 
10:05 PM 
25-45 
25-35 
8:10 AM to 
12:10 AM5  
60-105 
Southbound 
San Francisco - Gilroy 
5:35 AM to 
10:05 PM 
25-45 
25-35 
9:10 AM to 
12:50 AM5  
60-90 
Notes:  
1 Operating Hours rounded to the nearest 5 minutes for weekdays and weekends. Sunday may have reduced schedules.  
2 Headways are defined as the time between transit vehicles on the same route.  
3 Routes 51 and 57 are a school routes which operate on school days.  
4Last Route ECR buses arrives at Hilldale Station the following day.  
5Last Caltrain train arrives at Hilldale Station the following day.  
Source: SamTrans (December 2022), Commute.org (May 2022) Caltrain (December 2022) 
2.1.3. 
Caltrain 
Caltrain provides commuter-oriented passenger rail services between San Francisco County and Santa 
Clara County. The nearest Caltrain stop is at the Hillsdale Station, which is 0.25-miles, approximately 
10-minute walk from the Project site. Currently during the weekday, the station is serviced by Local, 
Limited, and Baby Bullet trains.   
It should be noted that due to the Caltrain Electrification project, there are short-term weekend 
service changes throughout the year starting in February 2023.

--- page 166 ---
7 | P a g e  
 
2.2. Existing Bicycle and Pedestrian Facilities 
2.2.1. 
Bicycle Facilities 
Bicyclists may access the Project through the existing bikeway facilities throughout San Mateo. The 
City designates Class I bicycle facilities as shared-use path, Class II bicycle facilities as bicycle lanes, 
Class III bicycle facilities as bicycle boulevards, and Class IV as separated bicycle lanes. Below is a list 
of bicycle facilities near the Project site: 
• 
Delaware Street:  
o Class II bicycle lanes between Fashion Island Boulevard and 28th Avenue 
o Class III Bicycle route between 28th Avenue and Pacific Boulevard 
• 
Hacienda Street: Class III bicycle route between 25th Avenue and 41st Avenue 
• 
Hillsdale Boulevard:  
o Class II bicycle lane between Hillsdale Place and Edison Street 
o Class III bicycle route east of Edison Street 
• 
28th Avenue 
o Class I lanes between El Camino Real and Delaware 
o Class III bicycle boulevard between Mason Lane and El Camino Real 
• 
Proposed Bicycle Boulevard along 31st Avenue and Flores Street. 
2.2.2. 
Pedestrian Facilities 
There are sidewalks and crosswalks along El Camino Real, 31st Avenue, and other nearby streets which 
connects employees and patrons to transit stops and other uses.  
2.3. Existing Mode Split 
Figure 4 illustrates the City’s work commute transportation mode split based on the recent American 
Community Survey. The most common mode is automobile where 74% drive alone in cars and 9% carpool. 
Other modes include transit (11%), bicycle (3%), walking (1%), and other (2%). 
 
Note: Total sum may be off due to margin of error for the data set.  
Source: American Community Survey – B08301 Means of Transportation to Work (2019) 
Figure 2: AM and PM Transportation Mode Splits 
 
 
74%
9%
11%
3%
1% 2%
SOV
Carpool
Transit
Walk
Bicycle
Other

--- page 167 ---
8 | P a g e  
 
3. Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Program 
3.1. Framework 
The TDM program will be comprised of three major components: 1) Education, 2) Program Elements, and 
3) Monitoring. The Education component is discussed in Section 3.2; the Program Elements component is 
discussed in Section 3.3; and the Monitoring component is discussed in Section 4.  
3.1.1. 
TDM Coordinator 
The Hillsdale Shopping Center has a TDM Coordinator which is responsible for promoting alternative 
modes of travel and TDM program elements to tenants and their employees. The TDM Coordinator 
may also organize and distribute transportation information material.  
3.1.2. 
Transportation Management Association (TMA) Membership 
Transportation Management Association (TMA) oversee TDM program implementation and assist 
with oversight and coordinating TDM measures. The Rail Corridor Association is the TMA for 
developments within the San Mateo Rail Corridor TOD plan area. 
3.1.3. 
Commute.org 
Commute.org is San Mateo County’s TDM agency and provides variety of TDM-related services, such 
as: 
• 
Employer-based shuttles program 
• 
Guarantee ride home 
• 
Carpool/vanpool incentive 
• 
Commuter management and reward program (STAR) 
• 
Try Transit Program 
• 
Bike to work day 
• 
Information and resources for employees and employers 
3.2. Education 
The Education component focuses on awareness and communication to reduce vehicle trips to the 
building by employees and visitors. This can be done by providing informational kiosks, new 
employee/residents packages, etc. 
3.2.1. 
Welcome Packets & Newsletter 
The TDM Coordinator provides transportation information packets to all new tenant and for 
distribution to employees commuting to the Hillsdale Shopping Center. This packet includes 
information on preferential parking programs, bike maps, ride matching services, transit 
maps/schedule, transit planning resources, and commuter benefit programs.  
TDM opportunities are occasionally featured in the shopping center’s newsletter.

--- page 168 ---
9 | P a g e  
 
3.2.2. 
Hillsdale Shopping Center Website 
Hillsdale Shopping Center website, Figure 4, has a travel demand management page1 which provides 
information related to TDM for the development. This website provides links to transit agencies 
(SamTrans and Caltrain) as well as City-related transportation websites (i.e. City of San Mateo, 
Sustainbiltiy.org) 
3.2.3. 
Customer Service Centers 
Hillsdale Shopping Center has two in-line Customer Service Centers where SamTrans and Caltrain 
schedules and pamphlets are readily available. Customer services are also able to assist with 
inquiring related to rider sharing (Uber, Lyft, taxi) or other transportation options.  
3.2.4. 
Commute.org 
Commute.org provides information related to TMA-shuttle and transit services, carpool/vanpool 
matching, STAR, employee and employer resources, and other assistance programs.   
3.3. Program Elements 
Table 3 summarizes the TDM program elements. These elements may change or be adjusted to adapt to 
changing commute trends and to maximize the efficiency and performance of the program.   
 
1 https://hillsdale.com/transportation-demand-management/

--- page 169 ---
10 | P a g e  
 
 
Figure 3: Screenshot of TDM website

--- page 170 ---
11 | P a g e  
 
Table 2: TDM Program Elements 
C/CAG Required Measures 
 
ID 
Measure 
Type 
Measure Description 
Vehicle Trip 
Reduction 
Impact 
Parking Mgmt. 
For Ridesharing 
M1 
Free/Preferential 
Parking for Carpool 
Programmatic 
Preferential parking is provided carpooling in parking 
garage 
1.0% 
TDM Mgmt. & 
Admin 
M3 
TDM Coordinator 
Programmatic 
Hillsdale Shopping Center has a TDM Coordinator which 
promotes & informs tenants of TDM measures 
0.5% 
M4 
Actively Participate in 
TMA 
Programmatic 
Participate in Rail Corridor TMA or register with 
Commute.org, dependent on tenant program 
6.5% 
Shuttle, Transit & 
Ridesharing 
M5 
Carpool or Vanpool 
Program 
Programmatic 
Encourage carpool/vanpooling via welcome packet and 
newsletter. 
2.0% 
M6 
Transit or Ridesharing 
Passes/Subsides 
Programmatic 
Offer public transit/ridesharing passes or subsides for 
employees, dependent on tenant program 
10.0% 
M7 
Pre-Tax Transportation 
Benefits 
Programmatic 
Offer option for tenants to participate in pre-tax transit 
program to encourage the use of sustainable 
transportation modes 
1.0% 
Active 
Transportation 
M8 
Secure Bicycle Storage 
Site Design 
BikeLink bicycle lockers are available in North Block Plaza. 
1.0% 
Site Design 
Initiatives 
M9 
Design Streets to 
Encourage Bike/Ped 
Access 
Site Design 
Building is closer to street and there is a pedestrian 
walkway off the corner of El Camino Real and 31st Avenue 
1.0% 
TOTAL  (Required Measures) 
23.0%

--- page 171 ---
12 | P a g e  
 
C/CAG Additional Recommended Measures 
 
ID 
Measure 
Type 
Measure Description 
Vehicle Trip 
Reduction 
Impact 
Active 
Transportation 
M24 
Bike Repair Station 
Site Design 
Offer bicycle repair station or toolkit to encourage 
bicycling and support employees who cycle, dependent 
on tenant program 
0.5% 
Site Design 
Initiatives 
M25 
Pedestrian Oriented 
Uses & Amenities on 
Ground Floor 
Site Design 
Within walking distance to retail/restaurant uses in 
Hillsdale Shopping Center 
3.0% 
TOTAL  (Recommended Measures) 
3.5% 
TOTAL (All Measures) 
26.5% 
Additional Measures 
 
ID 
Measure 
Type 
Measure Description 
Vehicle Trip 
Reduction 
Impact 
Education and 
Marketing 
- 
Welcome Packet & 
Newsletter 
Programmatic 
New tenants receive welcome packet which includes 
TDM information. TDM opportunities are occasionally 
features in shopping center newsletter. 
- 
- 
TDM Website 
Programmatic 
Dedicated website on shopping center webpage which 
provided TDM information 
- 
- 
Customer Service 
Centers 
Programmatic 
Two customer service centers that have transit schedule 
and pamphlets. Centers also have staff that can answer 
transportation-related inquiries. 
-

--- page 172 ---
13 | P a g e  
 
4. Monitoring and Evaluation 
As discussed in Section 1.1.1, C/CAG TDM program requires that Project regularly monitor and report its 
TDM program. Regular monitoring ensures that the TDM program is working effectively and achieving its 
target.  
4.1. Review of TDM Plan 
The TDM program should be reviewed at least on an annual basis. Adjustments should be made based on 
information from annual commute surveys, shifts in traffic pattern, change in technology. If necessary, 
adjustments to the TDM program may include: 
• 
Implementing additional TDM elements 
• 
Modifications to existing TDM elements (i.e. adding additional bicycle storage) 
If adjustments are made to the TDM program, the TDM coordinator(s) will communicate these 
adjustments to employees and residents.  
4.2. Monitoring 
Regular monitoring is needed to assess effectiveness of the TDM program. The monitoring process would 
include the following: 
• 
Biannual Travel Survey 
• 
Commute.org Biannual TDM Survey 
4.2.1. 
Biannual Travel Survey 
Biannual travel survey will be conducted to assess the current use of alternative transportation 
options by employees. Results of the survey should be used to identify adjustments that could be 
made to sustain or increase the use of transit, carpool, bicycle, and walking. Results of this survey will 
also be used to fill out Commute.org biannual TDM survey.  
4.2.2. 
Commute.org Biannual TDM Survey 
Commute.org will distribute a survey to TDM coordinator. This survey will consist of TDM Self-
Certification Form along with brief questionnaire about implemented TDM measures and user travel 
behavior at the project site.  
4.3. Evaluation 
Results of the TDM survey will be submitted to Commute.org. Commute.org will record and analyze 
survey response. If needed Commute.org will follow up with tenants reporting incomplete TDM 
measures or not achieving trip reduction goals.

--- page 173 ---
TDM-ROI Calculator - Entry Worksheet
- Estimates vehicle trip and VMT reductions from TDM services
- Converts vehicle trip and VMT travel impacts into societal benefits, such as reduction in travel time delay
- Calculates the cost savings from each benefit and the overall cost savings from all benefits combined
- Compares the societal cost savings to the TDM program "investment" cost to estimate ROI
A - Your Region, Service Area Type, and Transit Availability
Metropolitan Region (select from dropdown list at right)
If your region is not listed, choose the national average or the area you think is most representative of your area.
In each of the four sections below, enter an "x" in the box that BEST represents your TDM area
1 - Primary land use density and development pattern (Select ONLY ONE option)
High density urban core, large city downtown
X
Moderate-high density, activity center (e.g., office park)
Moderate density urban or small city/town
Moderate density, suburban
Low density, suburban or rural
2 - Primary focus of TDM program outreach (Select ONLY ONE option)
X
Primarily to commuters at worksites/through employers
Primarily to commuters at residential areas
Balanced mix of outreach to commuters at worksites and residential areas
Your TDM Service Area classification is:
3 - Percentage of commuters within 1/2 mi of bus/train stop in the service area (Select ONLY ONE option)
X
76% to 100% of commuters are within 1/2 mile of a bus or train stop
51% to 75% of commuters are within 1/2 mile of a bus or train stop
26% to 50% of commuters are within 1/2 mile of a bus or train stop
1% to 25% of commuters are within 1/2 mile of a bus or train stop
There is NO bus or train service in the TDM service area
4 - Average public transit frequency in the service area in the morning peak period (Select ONLY ONE option)
High - Average rush hour frequency for most routes is less than 15 minutes
X
Moderate - Average rush hour frequency for most routes is 16-30 minutes
Low - Average rush hour frequency for most routes is 31 minutes or more OR there is no transit service
Your Transit Availability classification is:
The calculator also requires data about travel changes (e.g., shifts to non-drive alone modes) resulting from use of services, which
typically are derived from a survey of people who use the services or other feedback from users. The TDM-ROI calculator will insert
an approximate default value for your type of area, but you can override those defaults if you have data about your services from
surveys or other sources. (See the TDM-ROI User Guide for more information.)
To use the calculator, you will enter information about the TDM services you offer, commuter participation in the services and the
area in which the services are implemented.
Welcome to the TDM-ROI Calculator. This spreadsheet-based method is a simple way to estimate the societal
benefit return on investment (ROI) of transportation demand management services. The method:
First - answer the questions below to define the type of geographic setting that most closely reflects the area in which you
provide TDM services:
San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA
Urban/Activity center
High Transit
 
Attachment C

--- page 174 ---
B - Your TDM Services and Their Role in the Total TDM Program
Next - Indicate in the list below all the TDM services you currently include in your TDM program
If you need more information about a service, mouse over the service name or refer to the User Guidance.
In the column labeled "Participation," enter the number of service users/participants for your services
   "?" to the right of the participation box.
- For services you do not offer, enter "0."
- Primary - one of the most important services influencing commuters' travel change; it is frequently the only service
   from your program that a commuter uses (service is often used alone)
- Suppport - less important/influential as a stand-alone; service is often/usually used in combination with other
   services OR the service's role is primarily informational, to acquaint users with other services offered
Core Commute Information/Assistance
Participation
Primary
Support
Carpool ridematching
12
?
X
Comprehensive commute assistance
251
?
X
Vanpool formation
12
?
X
Guaranteed/Emergency Ride Home
66
?
X
Commute program website
251
?
X
Commute challenges/events
75
?
X
General marketing
251
?
X
Targeted residential marketing
0
?
Financial Measures/Commute subsidies
Participation
Primary
Support
Ongoing transit incentive
28
?
X
Ongoing multi-modal incentive
15
?
X
Alternative mode "try it" incentive
185
?
X
Area-wide vanpool incentive
23
?
X
New Mode Options
Participation
Primary
Support
On-demand, dynamic ridematch
23
?
X
Commuter express bus
1
?
X
Non-express bus
27
?
X
Shuttle bus to transit stop/station
0
?
Bike commute program
3
?
X
Bikeshare
0
?
Carshare
0
?
Park & Ride facilities
0
?
Employer Support (Assist employers to offer TDM services)
Participation
Primary
Support
Employer Services (Low/Moderate)
251
?
X
Employer Services (High)
0
?
Telework
126
?
X
Compressed work schedule
126
?
X
In the columns labeled "Service Role," enter an "x" in the box that best represents the role of the service to users,
relative to other services you offer - Is it PRIMARY OR SUPPORT:
Service Role
- This is typically the number of registered users, but to see the specific definition for each service, mouse over the  "?" to the

--- page 175 ---
C - Your Organization's Role in Delivering/Providing the TDM Services
- My Organization - your organizations is primarily or completely responsible for the service - you administer/operate/
   manage all or nearly all service delivery functions OR you contract with a vendor to provide the service for you
- Other Organization - your organization performs some supportive functions (e.g., marketing/promotion), but a county
   or state agency, transit agency, employer, or other organization primarily administers/operates the service.
Core Commute Information/Assistance
My Org
Other Org
Carpool ridematching
X
Comprehensive commute assistance
X
Vanpool formation
X
Guaranteed/Emergency Ride Home
X
Commute program website
X
Commute challenges/events
X
General marketing
X
Targeted residential marketing
Financial Measures/Commute subsidies
My Org
Other Org
Ongoing transit incentive
X
Ongoing multi-modal incentive
X
Alternative mode "try it" incentive
X
Area-wide vanpool incentive
X
New Mode Options
My Org
Other Org
On-demand, dynamic ridematch
X
Commuter express bus
X
Non-express bus
X
Shuttle bus to transit stop/station
Bike commute program
X
Bikeshare
Carshare
Park & Ride facilities
Employer Services (for employers offering TDM services at worksites)
My Org
Other Org
Employer Services (Low/Moderate)
X
Employer Services (High)
Telework
X
Compressed work schedule
X
For each service that you offer, in the column labeled "Administrator," enter an "X" in the box that represents who
is primarily responsible for providing or delivering the service to commuters or employers.
Administrator

--- page 176 ---
D - Other Services You Offer - User Defined (Optional)
 Service 1:
Participation
Primary
Support
Participation/Service Role (Enter "x" for primary/support)
0
My Org
Other Org
Administrator (Enter "x" for My org/Other org)
Placement rate (%)
0%
Vehicle Trip Reduction (VTR) factor
0.0
One-way commute distance
0.0
Drive alone access percentage
0%
To enter data for additional services, click on the "+" sign by the service name in the left sidebar to show entry fields
 Service 2:
Participation
Primary
Support
Participation/Service Role (Enter "x" for primary/support)
0
My Org
Other Org
Administrator (Enter "x" for My org/Other org)
Placement rate (%)
0%
Vehicle Trip Reduction (VTR) factor
0.0
One-way commute distance
0.0
Drive alone access percentage
0%
 Service 3:
Participation
Primary
Support
Participation/Service Role (Enter "x" for primary/support)
0
My Org
Other Org
Administrator (Enter "x" for My org/Other org)
Placement rate (%)
0%
Vehicle Trip Reduction (VTR) factor
0.0
One-way commute distance
0.0
Drive alone access percentage
0%
 Service 4:
Participation
Primary
Support
Participation/Service Role (Enter "x" for primary/support)
0
My Org
Other Org
Administrator (Enter "x" for My org/Other org)
Placement rate (%)
0%
Vehicle Trip Reduction (VTR) factor
0.0
One-way commute distance
0.0
Drive alone access percentage
0%
 Service 5:
Participation
Primary
Support
Participation/Service Role (Enter "x" for primary/support)
0
My Org
Other Org
Administrator (Enter "x" for My org/Other org)
Placement rate (%)
0%
Vehicle Trip Reduction (VTR) factor
0.0
One-way commute distance
0.0
Drive alone access percentage
0%
If your program includes services not listed above, AND you have information on the use and likely travel change
from the services, enter them below. For more details on this section, refer to the TDM-ROI User Guide.
Service Name
Service Name
Service Name
Service Name
Service Name

--- page 177 ---
E - Annual TDM Program Cost
On this screen, enter costs for developing and implementing the services you indicate above
If you know ONLY the total program cost, enter it HERE
If you know costs of individual cost line items, enter them in the categories below:
Capital Costs
Exp Life (yrs)
- Item 1
Enter name here
- Item 2
Enter name here
- Item 3
Enter name here
Total Capital Cost (Annualized, 5%)
-
$
Operating Costs
Staff - Directly Assigned to Commute Program
- Annual salary cost
- Annual fringe benefit cost
Administrative Expenses/Support
- Office space and equipment
- Office expenses dedicated to program
- Marketing/promotion
- Vendor support
Commute Financial Incentives
- Cash subsidies paid to commuters
- Non-cash incentives
-
$
Facilities/Vehicles/Equipment
- Vehicle lease/ownership costs
-
$
- Information kiosks/displays/signage
- Other facilities/equipment
Other costs (not defined above)
- Item 1
Enter name here
-
$
- Item 2
Enter name here
-
$
- Item 3
Enter name here
-
$
Total Operating Cost (Annual)
-
$
Program Revenue (if applicable)
Total Program Revenue
-
$
Total Annual and Total Daily Program Costs
ESTIMATED NET ANNUAL COST
-
$

--- page 178 ---
F - Additional Regional/Service Area Data (Optional)
Finally, enter factors for your region or service area IF you have data from a regional or local source
Regional Travel Factors
IF LOCAL DATA ARE KNOWN for the any of the following items, enter the value in the "USER DEFINED" boxes below
If you do not have data for an item, leave the User Defined box as 0. The calculator will apply the regional default value.
Regional Default
User Defined
 Ave one-way commute distance (mi)
9.6
15.6
 Average home-to-work commute miles for the region or service area (one-way distance)
 Commute drive alone percentage
63.2%
73.7%
 Percentage of regional/service area commuters who drive alone or percentage of commute trips made by driving alone
 Commute transit percentage
17.6%
11.1%
 Percentage of regional/service area commuters who ride public transit or percentage of weekly commute trips made by transit
Regional Vehicle Pollutant Emission Factors
IF LOCAL DATA ARE KNOWN for the any of the following items, enter the value in the "USER DEFINED" boxes below
If you do not have data for an item, leave the User Defined box as 0. The calculator will apply the national default value.
National Default
User Defined
 Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx)
0.445
0.000
 NOx emission rate in grams per mile of travel
 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
0.075
0.000
 VOC emission rate in grams per mile of travel
 Greenhouse Gas (CO2_Equivalent)
387.460
0.000
 Greenhouse gas (Carbon Dioxide Equivalent) emission rate in grams per mile of travel
Regional Benefit Cost Factors
IF LOCAL DATA ARE KNOWN for the any of the following items, enter the value in the "USER DEFINED" boxes below
If you do not have data for an item, leave the User Defined box as 0. The calculator will apply the regional default value.
Regional Default
User Defined
 Median average wage rate
24.90
$
-
$
 Median wage rate for commuters in the service area or in the metropolitan region
 Road construction/ maintenance cost
165,000
$
-
$
 Estimated average annualized cost to build/maintain one lane-mile of major roadway (Interstate/limited access roadway)
 Ave gasoline price per gallon
3.36
$
5.50
$
 Average pump price for regular unleaded gasoline

--- page 179 ---
TDM-ROI Calculator - Results Summary
 Shown below are the results of the impact and ROI calculations.
 The top section (1 - Societal Benefits Summary and ROI) presents:
- Overall ROI for the program
- Overall societal cost savings from all benefits combined
- Program cost-effectiveness (Cost per vehicle trip reduced and cost per VMT reduced)
- Program travel and emission impacts (Reductions in daily vehicle trips, VMT, and kg of pollutant emissions)
 The bottom section (2 - Daily Cost Saving by Benefit) presents:
- Daily cost saving for each societal benefit individually
- Base units and cost per unit for each benefit individually
In each section, results are presented for TWO CASES that estimate a RANGE of possible results:
- Influenced Changes - Calculates impacts/cost-saving only for changes to alternative modes that service users
     indicated were assisted/influenced by the TDM services. This is the lower bound of the likely range of impacts.
- All Changes - Calculates impacts/cost-saving for all changes to alternative modes, regardless of what infuenced
     the changes (e.g., program services or other factors). This is the upper bound of the likely range of impacts.
We recommend you report BOTH the lower and upper bound results as a range, e.g., "Actual ROI is likely to be between x and y."
1 - Societal Benefits Summary ($ cost saving per day) and ROI
Cost Saving and ROI for ALL CHANGES Impacts - Lower and Upper Bounds
INFLUENCED
CHANGES
Impacts
(Lower Bound)
ALL CHANGES
Impacts
(Upper Bound)
PROGRAM ROI
#DIV/0!
#DIV/0!
Total cost saving from all benefits
159,728
$
per year
471,000
$
per year
Total program cost (annual)
-
$                       per year
-
$                       per year
PROGRAM COST-EFFECTIVENESS
Influenced
Changes
All Changes
Cost per vehicle trip reduced
-
$
-
$
Cost per VMT reduced
-
$
-
$
PROGRAM IMPACTS
Influenced
Changes
All Changes
Travel Impacts
  Total daily vehicle trips reduced
57
147
  Total daily VMT reduced
1,103
3,121
Emission Impacts
  NOx - oxides of nitrogen (kg)
0.5
1.4
  VOC - volatile organic compunds (kg)
0.1
0.2
  CO2 - carbon dioxide (kg)
427
1,209

--- page 180 ---
2 - Cost Saving by Benefit
INFLUENCED CHANGES IMPACTS (Lower Bound)
VT/VMT
Adj factor
Adj base unit
Cost/unit
Est Cost Saving
Air pollution (total)
1
$
  NOx - oxides of nitrogen
---
---
0.5
1.78
$
1
$
  VOC - volatile organic compounds
---
---
0.1
0.15
$
0
$
Global climate change (CO2)
---
---
427
0.04
$
17
$
Congestion (hours of delay reduction)
160
61.26
10
24.90
$
244
$
Road construction deferred (lane miles)
36
1,700
-
660
$
-
$
Excess fuel consumption (fuel saved)
1,103
18.0
61
5.50
$
337
$
Vehicle safety (crashes avoided)
1,103
1.01136
0.001
15,952
$
16
$
Noise pollution (vehicle noise eliminated)
1,103
1.0
1,103
0.0223
$
25
$
TOTAL DAILY COST SAVING  (Influenced Changes)
639
$
TOTAL ANNUAL COST SAVING  (Influenced Changes)
159,728
$
ALL CHANGES IMPACTS (Upper Bound)
VT/VMT
Adj factor
Adj base unit
Cost/unit
Est Cost Saving
Air pollution (total)
3
$
  NOx - oxides of nitrogen (kg)
---
---
1.4
1.78
$
2
$
  VOC - volatile organic compounds (kg)
---
---
0.2
0.15
$
0
$
Global climate change (CO2) (kg)
---
---
1,209
0.04
$
48
$
Congestion (hours of delay reduction)
456
61.26
28
24.90
$
696
$
Road construction deferred (lane miles)
95
1,700
0.1
660
$
66
$
Excess fuel consumption (fuel saved)
3,121
18.0
173
5.50
$
953
$
Vehicle safety (crashes avoided)
3,121
1.01136
0.003
15,952
$
48
$
Noise pollution (vehicle noise eliminated)
3,121
1.0
3,121
0.0223
$
70
$
TOTAL DAILY COST SAVING  (All Changes)
1,884
$
TOTAL ANNUAL COST SAVING  (All Changes)
471,000
$
Notes on calculation of base units:
Air pollution and CO2 - kg of pollutants eliminated calculated using regional emission factors
Congestion delay reduction - estimate congested VMT; convert congested miles to hours of delay
Road construction deferred - estimate vehicle trips on congested lanes; convert congested VT to  lane miles eliminated
Excess fuel consumption - Apply 18 mpg fuel efficiency factor to total VMT reduced
Vehicle safety - Apply vehicle crash occurance factor per 1 M VMT to total VMT reduced
Noise pollution - Use total VMT reduced as base benefit

--- page 181 ---
TDM-ROI Calculator - Service List and Descriptions
Services by Category
Typical Service Description
Participation Definition
Core Commute Information/Assistance
Carpool ridematching
Service to match potential carpool/vanpool partners for regular, ongoing carpool or vanpool;
typically online matching
Commuters requesting/accessing ridematch
service
Comprehensive commute assistance
Service offering personalized information/assistance on all non-SOV travel options (carpool,
vanpool, transit, bike/walk)
Commuters requesting/accessing commute
assistance
Vanpool formation
Outreach and assistance to commuters to start/maintain commute vanpools; typically residence-
based vanpool outreach
Total riders in program supported vans
Guaranteed/Emergency Ride Home
Emergency or after work rides for transit/rideshare commuters who do not have personal
vehicle available during the work day
Commuters registered/actively eligible
Commute program website
Web-based/online portal to provide commute information and registration for services (e.g.,
ridematch, GRH/ERH, commute challenges, etc)
Unique website visitors
Commute challenges/events
Short-term (one day, week, month) commute challenge/event to encourage trial use of modes
for commuting (e.g., Bike to Work, Car-Free, Try Transit, etc)
Commuters registered/pledging
General marketing
Regional/area-wide informational mass marketing/advertising campaigns about
commmuting/TDM services
Commuters in program area who are targeted
with messaging
Targeted residential marketing
Direct-mail/other mass marketing targeted to residents or employees in specific geographic
areas (e.g., neighborhood, roadway corridor, office park)
Commuters in program area who are targeted
with messaging
Financial Measures
Ongoing transit incentive
Ongoing subsidy or discounted transit pass for commuters who ride transit to work
Registered incentive participants
Ongoing multi-modal incentive
Ongoing subsidies/other financial benefits for travelers who use any non-drive alone mode
(transit, carpool, vanpool, bike/walk)
Registered incentive participants
Alternative mode "try it" incentive
Short-term/temporary (e.g., one week, one to three month) financial benefit for drive-alone
commuters to try non-drive alone modes
Registered incentive participants
Area-wide vanpool incentive
Ongoing financial assistance (leasing, insurance, driver/rider subsidy) for vanpools that travel
within the area or to/from priority locations (e.g., activity centers, corridors)
Vanpool incentive recipients
New Mode Options
On-demand, dynamic ridematch
On-demand, immediate ridematching for single-trip purpose for registered users (web-
based/smartphone app)
Registered users
Commuter express bus
Promotion and/or operation of commuter express bus service typically operating between
residential areas and work areas
Total weekday boardings
Non-express bus
Promotion and/or operation of fixed-route, non-express bus service - from home area or work
area
Total weekday boardings
Shuttle bus to transit stop/station
Promotion and/or operation of shuttle from home or work area to bus stop/train station ("first
mile" or "last mile")
Total weekday boardings
Bike commute program
Education/events/incentives/services to assist commuters to bike to work
Participating bike commuters

--- page 182 ---
Services by Category
Typical Service Description
Participation Definition
Bikeshare
Bicycle fleet available for short-term rental by members – home area, work area, at train
stations, at activity centers
Registered bikeshare members
Carshare
Short-term rental of shared vehicles available to members – home area, work areas, at train
stations, at activity centers
Registered carshare members
Park & Ride facilities
Promotion/operation of commuter Park & Ride lots (carpool, vanpool, transit access)
Total weekday vehicles parked
Employer Program Support
Employer Services (Low/Moderate)
Assistance to employers that offer ONLY commute information and other low/moderate level
commute support services (e.g., GRH, flextime, preferential parking, etc)
Employees at Low/Moderate program
worksites
Employer Services (High)
Assistance to employers that offer high level commute support services (e.g., financial
incentives, company vanpool assistance, parking charges, shuttles to transit stops, etc)
Employees at High program worksites
Telework
Assistance to employers that offer telework program at worksites
Employees at sites that offer TW option
Compressed work schedule
Assistance to employers that offer compressed work schedules at worksites
Employees at sites with CWS

--- page 183 ---
TDM-ROI Calculator - Compilation of Participation by Service and Impact Calculation Factors
Default Values
CP Match
CommAsst
HB Vanpool
GRH
Website
Comm Events
Gen Mkt
Targ Res Mkt
   - Placement rate (Max 100%)
25%
40%
100%
40%
40%
25%
0%
2%
   - Continued VTR (Max 2.0)
0.6
0.9
1.0
1.2
0.3
0.3
0.4
0.5
   - Continued distance (Max 150 mi)
26.9
18.7
46.8
18.7
18.7
18.7
18.7
18.7
   - % changers who DA to alt mode
20%
10%
90%
10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
INSERT VALUES IN YELLOW SHADED BOXES ONLY IF you have local data on the use or impacts of the service from a survey or other data source
If you do not have data for an item, leave the User Defined box as 0. The calculator will apply the default value for that service.
User-Defined Values
CP Match
CommAsst
HB Vanpool
GRH
Website
Comm Events
Gen Mkt
Targ Res Mkt
   - Placement rate (Max 100%)
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
   - Continued VTR (Max 2.0)
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
   - Continued distance (Max 150 mi)
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
   - % changers who DA to alt mode
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
This worksheet compiles participation data and calculation factors from other worksheets. Users who have locally-collected data for a TDM service from
a user survey or other source may  insert those values in the yellow highlighted boxes.
Core Commute Information/Assistance
Core Commute Information/Assistance

--- page 184 ---
TDM-ROI Calculator - Compilati
Default Values
   - Placement rate (Max 100%)
   - Continued VTR (Max 2.0)
   - Continued distance (Max 150 mi)
   - % changers who DA to alt mode
INSERT VALUES IN YELLOW SHADED BOXES
If you do not have data for an item, leave th
User-Defined Values
   - Placement rate (Max 100%)
   - Continued VTR (Max 2.0)
   - Continued distance (Max 150 mi)
   - % changers who DA to alt mode
This worksheet compiles participation data 
a user survey or other source may  insert th
Transit Sub
M-mode Sub
"Try it" Inc
Vanpool Inc
35%
50%
60%
95%
1.2
1.2
1.2
1.0
14.0
18.7
18.7
46.8
10%
20%
20%
80%
Transit Sub
M-mode Sub
"Try it" Inc
Vanpool Inc
0%
0%
0%
0%
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0%
0%
0%
0%
Financial Incentives/Commute Subsidies
Financial Incentives/Commute Subsidies

--- page 185 ---
TDM-ROI Calculator - Compilati
Default Values
   - Placement rate (Max 100%)
   - Continued VTR (Max 2.0)
   - Continued distance (Max 150 mi)
   - % changers who DA to alt mode
INSERT VALUES IN YELLOW SHADED BOXES
If you do not have data for an item, leave th
User-Defined Values
   - Placement rate (Max 100%)
   - Continued VTR (Max 2.0)
   - Continued distance (Max 150 mi)
   - % changers who DA to alt mode
This worksheet compiles participation data 
a user survey or other source may  insert th
Dynamic RS
Expr Bus
Non-Exp Bus
Shuttle
Bike Comm
Bikeshare
Carshare
Park & Ride
7%
85%
60%
60%
25%
40%
15%
20%
0.2
1.4
1.4
1.4
1.2
0.2
0.3
0.8
23.4
23.4
11.7
11.7
4.5
4.5
14.0
18.7
0%
20%
10%
10%
0%
0%
0%
90%
Dynamic RS
Expr Bus
Non-Exp Bus
Shuttle
Bike Comm
Bikeshare
Carshare
Park & Ride
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
New Mode Options
New Mode Options

--- page 186 ---
TDM-ROI Calculator - Compilati
Default Values
   - Placement rate (Max 100%)
   - Continued VTR (Max 2.0)
   - Continued distance (Max 150 mi)
   - % changers who DA to alt mode
INSERT VALUES IN YELLOW SHADED BOXES
If you do not have data for an item, leave th
User-Defined Values
   - Placement rate (Max 100%)
   - Continued VTR (Max 2.0)
   - Continued distance (Max 150 mi)
   - % changers who DA to alt mode
This worksheet compiles participation data 
a user survey or other source may  insert th
Emp-Low/Mod
Emp-High
Telework
CWS
2%
18%
25%
25%
1.4
1.4
0.4
0.2
15.6
15.6
15.6
15.6
20%
20%
0%
0%
Emp-Low/Mod
Emp-High
Telework
CWS
0%
0%
0%
0%
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0%
0%
0%
0%
Employer Worksite TDM Assistance
Employer Worksite TDM Assistance

--- page 187 ---
TDM-ROI Calculator - Compilati
Default Values
   - Placement rate (Max 100%)
   - Continued VTR (Max 2.0)
   - Continued distance (Max 150 mi)
   - % changers who DA to alt mode
INSERT VALUES IN YELLOW SHADED BOXES
If you do not have data for an item, leave th
User-Defined Values
   - Placement rate (Max 100%)
   - Continued VTR (Max 2.0)
   - Continued distance (Max 150 mi)
   - % changers who DA to alt mode
This worksheet compiles participation data 
a user survey or other source may  insert th
Service Name
Service Name
Service Name
Service Name
Service Name
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
Service Name
Service Name
Service Name
Service Name
Service Name
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0.0
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
User Defined Strategies
User Defined Strategies

--- page 188 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Mary Way
Sent:
Monday, May 22, 2023 1:05 PM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Cc:
Manira Sandhir
Subject:
FW: May 23 Item #2 Hillsdale Shopping Center
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
HI Rendell, A comment for your item on tomorrow night’s PC meeting. 
 
Mary 
 
From: 
  
Sent: Monday, May 22, 2023 12:57 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: May 23 Item #2 Hillsdale Shopping Center 
 
Dear Commission, 
 
Without hearing the staff report I am against the proposed change. I would encourage staff to reach out to Nazareth and 
inquire of the success/challenges of having office next to the ice rink at Bridgepoint (it appears some of the space is now 
being changed to Kelly Moore Paint). I feel the proposed plan will likely have a similar experience. 
 
In addition, during future redevelopment of Mall the currently vacant north block location seem like it could be broken up to 
temporarily house existing stores from the main portion of the mall. My concern is stores will temporarily relocate to other 
under utilized sites throughout the city and ultimately return to Hillsdale after the redevelopment completion, thus delaying 
redevelopment of other sites, and making it more difficult to achieve housing objectives. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Thomas Morgan

--- page 189 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Marsha Heimbecker <
>
Sent:
Thursday, May 18, 2023 11:22 AM
To:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
Stop building high rises in san mateo!
Follow Up Flag:
Follow up
Flag Status:
Flagged
Dear Councilman, 
 
You are ruining San Mateo. 
 
These high rises are terrible!  Downtown San Mateo and the Hillsdale mall will be awful.  It is already gridlock.  Have you 
tried to go to Foster City or 101 anyƟme between 3-7pm? 
 
It took me 45 minutes to get to Edgewater! 
 
You are destroying the mental health of San Mateo ciƟzens.  Overcrowding leads to more crime, violence, and drugs.  Go 
research JAMA. 
 
You are adding 1200 units to Hillsdale.  How are 1200 cars going to ﬁt on our roads.  It is more likely 2400 cars, because 
only households with two workers will be able to aﬀord this area. 
 
Please stop building.  Please stop making high rises in the middle of residenƟal areas. 
 
Your responsibility is not to money grubbing greedy developers, you gave an oath to the city of San Mateo and its 
ciƟzens. 
 
Responsibility and honor begins at home. 
 
Marsha Heimbecker  
Sent from my iPhone 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone

--- page 190 ---
Hillsdale Shopping Center 
North Block
Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification
(PA-2022-022)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
May 23, 2023
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 191 ---
Hillsdale Shopping Center 
North Block
Site Plan and Architectural Review Modification
(PA-2022-022)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
May 23, 2023
Rendell Bustos, Senior Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 192 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Location
Original Approval
Proposed Modification
Public Input
3

--- page 193 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
4
Hillsdale Caltrain 
Station
Project Site
North Block
• 12.2 Acres
• General Plan: 
Regional Community 
Commercial
• Zoning: C2-2/Q5
Adjacent Uses
• Commercial (South, 
East, North)
• Residential (West, 
North)
Location
Original Approval
Proposed Modification
Public Input
60 31st Avenue
Hilldale Shopping Center
• 40 Acres
• 1.15 million sq. ft. 
commercial uses

--- page 194 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
5
North Block Redevelopment (PA-2015-024)
• Approved on March 7, 2016
• Construction completed in 2020
• Retail/Restaurant Uses: 177,675 sq. ft.
• Office Uses: 16,656 sq. ft.
Location
Original Approval
Proposed Modification
Public Input

--- page 195 ---
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
6
Location
Original Approval
Proposed Modification
Public Input
Building L – First Floor
• Allow up to 37,611 sq. ft. to be used for office uses
• No changes to exterior design, site plan, floor area, parking
• Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) Modification
First Floor Only

--- page 196 ---
7
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Applicant Neighborhood Meeting
• January 26, 2022
• Comments regarding office demand, 
future of shopping center
Public Comments
• Public Notice – 1,000 ft. radius
• None received during project review
• Received after packet publication
Location
Original Approval
Proposed Modification
Public Input

--- page 197 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code
Specific Plans
Environmental Review
8

--- page 198 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
9
• General Plan Land Use: Regional Community Commercial
• Zoning Designation: C2-2/Q5 (Regional Community 
Commercial/Sub-Area A of the Qualified Overlay District 5)
Approved
Modification
Retail/Restaurant Uses
177,675 sq. ft.
140,064 sq. ft.
Office Uses
16,656 sq. ft.
54,267 sq. ft.
General Plan and Zoning Code
Specific Plans
Environmental Review
• Increase of 37,611 sq. ft. for office uses
• Still permits owner to lease to retail uses

--- page 199 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
10
• El Camino Real Master plan
• No change to exterior, site plan, 
or public improvements
• Rail Corridor Plan
• Within plan area
• Outside of Transit Oriented 
Development (TOD) zone
• Hillsdale Station Area Plan
• Subject to trip reduction 
measures
• Transportation Demand 
Management Plan for office 
uses
General Plan and Zoning Code
Specific Plans
Environmental Review

--- page 200 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
11
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
• Addendum to Mitigated Negative Declaration
• No new significant environmental effects
General Plan and Zoning Code
Specific Plans
Environmental Review
Transportation Analysis
• Level of Service (LOS)
• Reduces daily trips
• Reduces PM peak trips 
• Increases AM peak trips
Trip Generation
Daily :
- 993 Trips
AM Peak:
+ 23 Trips
PM Peak:
- 80 Trips
• Transportation Demand Management (TDM) Plan 
• 15% Trip reduction
• Transit subsidy, bicycle repair station
• Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT)
• Reduces retail VMT
• 13.3 VMT per office 
employee (below threshold)

--- page 201 ---
12
CONDITIONS OF 
APPROVAL
• Commercial Linkage Fee (#5)
• Child Care Development Fee (#6)
• Interior Visibility (#11)
• TDM Implementation and Monitoring (#8, 14)

--- page 202 ---
13
RECOMMENDATION
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Site Plan and 
Architectural Review Modification for 60 31st
Avenue to enable 37,611 square-feet of office 
uses at Building L, and adopt an Addendum to a 
Mitigated Negative Declaration to assess 
environmental impacts of the project, based on 
the Findings for Approval and subject to the 
Conditions of Approval.

--- page 203 ---
CITY OF



--- page 204 ---
15
GROUND FLOOR INTERIOR VISIBILITY – Visibility into the ground floor of Building L 
shall be maintained in accordance with the El Camino Real Master Plan. Building 
occupants shall not cause obstructed interior views of activity through reflective or 
dark tinted glass. (PLANNING)
CONDITION OF APPROVAL #11

--- page 205 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: STUDY SESSION
Account Number: 
File ID: 23-7552
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Christina Horrisberger, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
May 23, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Informational Item - 2023-2031 Housing Element Schedule
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive information on the anticipated schedule to update the City’s Housing Element.
BACKGROUND: 
At its May 9, 2023 meeting, the Planning Commission requested an update on the status of the Housing Element, the 
anticipated schedule to update the Housing Element in response to the State’s comments, and timing of when the 
Planning Commission could meet to provide input on the Housing Element for Council consideration. See Attachment 1 for 
the tentative schedule for the Housing Element and when it will be brought back to the Planning Commission for input and 
a recommendation. The attached tentative schedule outlines a Planning Commission public hearing prior to an adoption 
hearing by the City Council and eventual certification by the state.  
This is an informational item on the Housing Element schedule only. Pursuant to the Brown Act, the Commission may only 
focus its comments and discussion on the Housing Element schedule and not the project itself. 
The next opportunity for the public to provide input on this project will be on June 5, 2023, when the City Council will hold 
a study session on the Housing Element focused on next steps and milestones to achieve certification. For additional 
information about the 2023-2031 Housing Element and to view HCD’s second review letter, please visit the City’s Housing 
Element Update webpage. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
This item is informational and does not affect the City's Budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Housing Element Tentative Schedule
STAFF CONTACT

--- page 206 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7203

--- page 207 ---
Tentative 2023-2031 Housing Element Timeline
•
June 5, 2023 – City Council Study Session
•
June/July 2023 – Update the Adopted Housing Element in response to HCD 
second review letter comments and City Council direction 
•
June/July 2023 – Iterative Review and communication with HCD staff
•
July 2023 – Publish Revised Housing Element for Public review/comments 
(minimum of seven days)
•
August 2023 – Submit Revised Housing Element to HCD for third review.
•
August/September 2023 – HCD review period (60 days)
•
October 2023 – Update Housing Element in response to HCD Comments
•
October/November/December 2023 – Public hearings before the Planning 
Commission for a recommendation on the Housing Element and the City Council 
to re-adopt Housing Element (Contingent upon achieving conditional HCD 
certification). If conditional certification is not achieved, a 4th submittal to HCD 
will be required.
•
December 2023 – Submit the re-adopted Housing Element to HCD for 
certification.

--- page 208 ---
From: Ted McKinnon 
  
Sent: Tuesday, May 23, 2023 3:28 PM 
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; Christina Horrisberger 
<chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org>; Zachary Dahl <zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk 
<clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Housing Element Schedule 
 
Dear Chairperson Williams and Commissioners, 
 
I am writing in regard to Agenda Item 3: Informational Item - 2023-2031 Housing 
Element Schedule. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to weigh in on this matter. 
 
It would seem axiomatic that the Planning Commission would be fully engaged throughout the 
Housing Element process. Not only are they the relevant policy committee on this matter, the 
City Council has undergone an almost complete turnover within the past six months. The 
Planning Commission serves as a critical bridge across what has necessarily been a long and 
drawn out process. 
 
Furthermore, it is imperative that the public be given ample opportunity to weigh in on this 
process. Ensuring Planning Commission review of Staff findings and recommendations prior to 
presentation to the Council will enable greater public participation and allow enhanced 
opportunity for community buy-in to an otherwise opaque and arcane process. 
 
Please ensure that the Staff revises the existing schedule in Attachment 1 so that it provides 
richer detail ensuring that the Planning Commission and the public are properly engaged 
throughout this process. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Ted McKinnon