Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Henrico County VA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sun Jun 07 2026

OVERVIEW

The Henrico County Police Division uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising individual privacy. Henrico Police use retroactive searches to solve crimes after they have occurred. Additionally, Henrico Police utilize real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles and wanted persons status to recover or capture suspected criminals. This technology is also used to locate missing/endangered persons or persons associated with human trafficking. Henrico Police maintain compliance with Virginia State Law (2.2-5517). In an effort to ensure that proper usage and guardrails are in place, we have made the policies and usage statistics below available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles, any large object motion that passes in front of the camera lens (triggering the motion-activated camera).

What's Not Detected

There is no Facial Recognition technology (people, gender, race, etc.) used.

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Henrico Police and is never sold to third parties. Images captured by Flock Safety are deleted entirely after 21 days of capture in accordance with Virginia State Law.

Prohibited Uses

Any purpose other than law enforcement, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), personal use, interference with any individual engaged in a lawful activity including lawfully protected speech.

Access Policy

All system access is limited to (i) persons trained in the Flock Safety system, and (ii) active criminal investigation of suspected violations of state or local law, or (iii) active investigations into missing or endangered persons, persons related to human trafficking, or (iv) receipt of notifications related to stolen vehicles, stolen license plates, missing / endangered persons, or persons related to human trafficking.

Hotlist Policy

No action resulting solely from a hotlist hit is taken until the hit has been verified by Henrico Police personnel, and no license plate will be added to a hotlist unless it is connected with an active investigation or criminal warrant.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

123

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, NCIC - VSP

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

837,636

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

6,838

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

1,271
ADDITIONAL INFO

Additional Info

Henrico County Police Division Policy on Automated License Plate Readers (ALPR) usage: LP-59
https://henrico.gov/public-data/police-policy-automatic-license-plate-reader/

Provided by Flock Safety