Monona Police suspend use of Flock cameras | News | hngnews.com Odpre se v novem oknu Odpre zunanjo spletno stran Odpre zunanjo spletno stran v novem oknu To spletno mesto uporablja tehnologije, kot so piškotki, za omogočanje osnovnih funkcij spletnega mesta, kot tudi za analitika, personalizacija in ciljno oglaševanje. Če želite izvedeti več, si oglejte naslednjo povezavo: Politika zasebnosti Upravljanje nastavitev Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Site search Search Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Subscribe Today Or get a Day Pass for only $1.99! Newsletters Sign up for news in your inbox every day! Read the e-Edition e-Edition How-To Subscriber Services Subscribe Manage Subscription (Pay Your Bill, Vacation Request, Update Account Info) Subsciber Savings Newsletters Contact Customer Service Home News Sports Obituaries Sponsored Content Community Opinion Public Notices Classifieds Contact Us Submit News Submit Letter to Editor Home Milton Courier Leader Independent The Star Tribune Enterprise Latest e-Edition Leader Independent Manage Your Subscription Saturday, May 9, 2026 e-Edition Menu Search Open user controls Log In Using Your Account Log In Don't have an account? Sign Up Today My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Subscribe Site search Search News Sports Obituaries Sponsored Content Community Opinion Classifieds Public Notices Contact Us Close Featured Popular Monona Police suspend use of Flock cameras Chief tells Council he did not renew contract for ALPR system CHRIS LEE chris.lee@apg-sw.com Chris Lee Author email May 5, 2026 May 5, 2026 Updated May 5, 2026 Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email A Flock Safety automated license plate reader (ALPR) camera and solar panel mounted on a light pole in Monona. CHRIS LEE chris.lee@apg-sw.com Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save MONONA – Following a similar move by the Dane County Board last month, the Monona Police Department has decided not to renew the contract for its Flock Safety automated license plate reader system (ALPR). Police Chief Brian Chaney told the Monona City Council on May 4 that he has opted to suspend the Department’s use of Flock Safety’s automated license plate reader system (ALPR). CHRIS LEE chris.lee@apg-sw.com “I have opted to suspend our use of Flock,” Police Chief Brian Chaney told the Monona City Council at its May 4 meeting. He said access to the system was suspended by staff a couple weeks ago. Chaney said Monona’s two-year contract with Flock was coming due for renewal on April 20, just four days after the Dane County Board voted 32-1 to amend the County budget to remove $80,000 for the Sheriff's Office's annual Flock subscription, which runs through May 31. Chaney said he had to decide quickly, “do I lock us in to a year or two contract?” Besides the County vote as a factor, Chaney said his department has also been receiving numerous open records requests regarding the Flock system – with the majority not being Monona from residents – and staff was spending an exorbitant amount of time fulfilling those requests. There have also been concerns nationally about whether U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and other federal agencies can access Flock data from local communities. Flock Safety said in a blog post that “ICE does not have direct access to Flock cameras, systems, or data, unless the agencies that control their data expressly and deliberately allow it.” But while each local government agency or business that has a contract with Flock can decide which other agencies it will share its data with, it is possible one of those other agencies could in turn still share that data with a federal agent. Chaney said he made the decision to end Monona’s Flock subscription in consultation with the mayor and others. In the past few years, many south-central Wisconsin counties, cities, and villages have installed ALPR systems, which use cameras and software to automatically capture, analyze, and store license plate numbers, and often, additional identifying information from the backs of vehicles. That information is processed, and when used as part of a network of data, can alert law enforcement to stolen or wanted vehicles, help them solve other crimes, or locate missing persons. Atlanta-based Flock Safety calls itself the “largest public-private safety network” and says it is used by more than 5,000 law enforcement agencies in 49 states. In addition to the Dane, Columbia, and Jefferson County Sheriff’s offices, the Cottage Grove, Marshall, Monona, Sun Prairie, and Waunakee police departments were all using Flock cameras as of the start of the year, as were Jefferson, Lodi, Poynette, Watertown, and Whitewater. Lake Mills and McFarland police are getting them this year. Critics have pushed back against what they see as Big-Brother overtones and “surveillance creep” with the camera systems. “At a time when Flock, some of its law enforcement partners, and federal immigration enforcement agencies have been found to collect and misuse personal information for tracking and surveillance in ways that violate constitutional rights, the board has a responsibility to act,” Dane County Board Chair Patrick Miles said in a news release after its vote. Monona Police began using Flock ALPR cameras in 2023 and had three in use in the City at the end of 2025, with a fourth one approved. Besides Dane County and now Monona, the Oshkosh Police Department has also ended its contract with Flock. All three indicated the possibility of using a different company’s license-plate reader system. Verona ended its contract with Flock last December. Chaney said there was a “strong sense of disappointment” expressed at a recent Public Safety Committee meeting over not having Flock anymore. “Many residents find value in the technology,” he said. Chaney said that unless and until a replacement is found, cases that would have been solved sooner due to the help of an ALPR system are going to take more effort. “We are going to have to pivot,” he said. Chaney said that Monona’s contract with Flock could still be renewed at some point in the future. (Updated at 8:18 p.m. on 5/5/2026 to remove a quote after getting a correction from Chief Chaney.) Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save More information Dane County Board votes to cut funding for Flock license-plate reader cameras The Dane County Board has voted to remove funding from the Sheriff’s Office for use of its Flock Safety automated license plate reader system … Cottage Grove takes closer look at Flock Camera policies License-plate-reader cameras proliferate as police say they help catch criminals, but others raise privacy, security, Big-Brother concerns Tags Monona Police Chief Brian Chaney Monona Police Department Flock Safety Cameras Automated License Plate Reader Camera Alpr Cameras Contract Dane County Board City Of Monona City Of Oshkosh Wtw Chris Lee Author email Follow Chris Lee Click Here to View Ads! Support Local Journalism in Classrooms You're on the list! Thanks for signing up. Keep an eye on your inbox for the next edition. ℹ️ You may want to whitelist emails from leader-independent@adamspg-email.com to make sure it doesn't go to your spam folder! Leader Independent - Weekly Update Get the latest news, sports, and weather delivered to your inbox every Monday-Friday at 5:00 am. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign Up Now By signing up, you agree to receive promotional emails. Sections Classifieds Videos & Photo Galleries Local Events Online Features Weather Services Contact Customer Service Contact Us Advertise Promote Your Event Subscribe Subscriber Savings Privacy Policy Terms of Service × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 hngnews.com 804 Liberty Blvd Suite 209, Sun Prairie, WI | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Privacy Manager Back × Log In Register You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else. * Password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address. * Confirm Password Confirm your password. Contact information Phone CAPTCHA Create Account or Sign up with Newzware Have an account? Log In × You're all set! Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. OK Back × Log In Invalid password or account does not exist Email Address Password Forgot your password? Log In Email me a log in link or Sign in with Newzware Admin login Subscribe Need an account? Sign Up Back × Reset Password Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. Email or Screen Name CAPTCHA Reset Password × Forgot Password An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. Back × Email me a log in link Account Email CAPTCHA Send Email Back × Promotional Offers Enter Promo Code Redeem No promotional rates found. Back × Purchase Gift Purchase Access × An error occurred × Secure & Encrypted Sign in with Email Address Continue with Email Address or Continue with Newzware What's your email address? Email Password Confirm password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Who is this gift for? Recipient name Recipient email Optional message for the recipient Who is this gift from? Purchaser name Purchaser email Delivery date Delivery date What's your billing location? State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip Code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe What's your delivery address? Copy billing location Address City State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe Phone Subtotal: Total: How would you like to pay? Add New Card I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use. This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration. Secure transaction. Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. × You're all set! Thank you . Your gift purchase was successful! Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in. A receipt was sent to your email. OK × An error occurred This offer is currently unavailable. Close