Dane County Board reinstates $80K to sheriff's budget for new ALPR provider | Local News | hngnews.com Opens in a new window Opens an external website Opens an external website in a new window This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. To learn more, view the following link: Privacy Policy Skip to main content You are the owner of this article. Edit Article Add New Article Close You have permission to edit this article. Edit Close Facebook Twitter Site search Search Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Subscribe Today Or get a Day Pass for only $1.99! Newsletters Sign up for news in your inbox every day! Read the e-Edition e-Edition How-To Subscriber Services Subscribe Manage Subscription (Pay Your Bill, Vacation Request, Update Account Info) Subscriber Savings Newsletters Contact Customer Service Home Local News Sports Obituaries Sponsored Content Community Opinion Classifieds Place an Ad Public Notices Contact Us Submit News Submit Letter to the Editor Our Publications HNGnews.com Milton Courier Leader Independent The Star Tribune Enterprise Home Milton Courier Leader Independent The Star Tribune Enterprise Latest e-Edition The Star Manage Your Subscription Thursday, June 25, 2026 e-Edition Subscribe Now Menu Search Open user controls Log In Using Your Account Log In Don't have an account? Sign Up Today My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Sign Up Log In Dashboard Logout My Account Dashboard Profile Saved items Logout Subscribe Site search Search Local News Sports Community Obituaries Sponsored Content Opinion Classifieds Public Notices Local Events Help FAQs E-Edition How to Contact Us Close Enterprise Featured Popular Dane County Board reinstates $80K to sheriff's budget for new ALPR provider Questions now: What vendor will county choose after ditching Flock, and will other municipalities follow suit? CHRIS LEE chris.lee@apg-sw.com Chris Lee Author email Jun 24, 2026 Jun 24, 2026 Updated 9 hrs ago Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email File photo: Flock Safety camera mounted on a telephone pole in Sun Prairie CHRIS LEE chris.lee@apg-sw.com Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save File photo: A pole-mounted Flock Safety automated license plate reader (ALPR) camera and solar panel in Sun Prairie. CHRIS LEE chris.lee@apg-sw.com Now that the Dane County Board has voted to reinstate $80,000 into his budget, Sheriff Kalvin Barrett is eager to find a new automated license plate reader (ALPR) system to replace the Flock cameras. "There has been concern from the community that this is jeopardizing public safety as we move in to the busiest time of the year, summertime," Barrett said in an interview. "Right now, we have nothing." The county board voted in April to cut the $80,000 that covered the annual Flock Safety subscription, effectively canceling the service after May 31. According to a county news release, the resolution cited concerns raised by residents, policymakers, and privacy experts about reported and verified abuses of data collected through Flock's ALPR network, including informal data-sharing with federal agencies that bypasses oversight and accountability measures. A covered Flock Safety camera is shown on June 8 on U.S. Highway 12/18 just west of State Highway 73 near Deerfield. The Dane County Sheriff's Office said it covered up the automated license plate reader (ALPR) cameras when Flock did not remove them by May 31, the date the county’s contract with Flock expired. CHRIS LEE chris.lee@apg-sw.com At its June 4 meeting, the board voted 26-7 to reinstate that money for purchasing and implementing a new ALPR system. "We can now move forward with request for proposals because we have the funds secured," said Barrett. The June 4 resolution said the board “supports the use of an ALPR system that incorporates maximum privacy and security controls, including strict limitations on data access, retention, and sharing.” “It is further the intent of the Board that all data collected through such a system remain under the full ownership and control of the Dane County Sheriff’s Office, without unauthorized third-party access and complete, transparent documentation when access is granted.” Barrett said that 2025 saw a dramatic drop in many types of crimes in the county, and while he gives a lot of credit to hiring the right people, he also thinks the cameras had something to do with it. "It's everything together,” Barrett said. “I think we had the recipe for a crime-reducing strategy and now we've lost the main ingredient in that (ALPR cameras). … And the data supports that." Given the county’s large area and the limited number of sheriff’s deputies, Barrett said having ALPR cameras can play a big role in public safety in rural areas. Widespread Flock use, then some pullback In the past few years, many south-central Wisconsin counties, cities, and villages have installed ALPR systems, which use cameras and software to automatically capture, analyze, and store license plate numbers, and often, additional identifying information from the backs of vehicles. The information can be used to alert law enforcement to stolen or wanted vehicles, help them solve other crimes, or locate missing persons. Atlanta-based Flock Safety calls itself the “largest public-private safety network” and says it is used by more than 5,000 law enforcement agencies in 49 states. Entities using Flock cameras can choose to share data with other agencies to aid searches that span multiple jurisdictions. The Dane, Columbia, and Jefferson County Sheriff’s offices, as well as the Cottage Grove, Marshall, Monona, Sun Prairie, and Waunakee police departments were all using Flock cameras at the start of the year, as were Jefferson, Lodi, Poynette, Watertown, and Whitewater. Lake Mills police had them installed this year . But after concerns about data sharing and transparency, Dane County as well as the cities of Verona, Oshkosh, Monona, and Fitchburg, among others, ended or voted to let their contracts with Flock expire. And the McFarland Police Department announced in May that it would not move forward with its plan to install Flock cameras, citing the deceasing number of cameras in the area as one reason. Privacy concerns, data sharing questions Besides pushback against what some see as Big-Brother overtones and “surveillance creep,” there have also been concerns about whether U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and other federal agencies can access Flock data from local communities. Flock said in a blog post that “ICE does not have direct access to Flock cameras, systems, or data, unless the agencies that control their data expressly and deliberately allow it.” But while each local government agency or business that has a contract with Flock can decide which other agencies it will share its data with, it is possible one of those other agencies could in turn still share that data with a federal agent. Incentive to share data The ability to share ALPR data among local and regional law enforcement increases the potential of locating a vehicle in the case of a missing person, stolen auto, or other crime in which a vehicle is used, by having more camera locations to draw from. "We will share data no matter what, for public safety, as long as the agencies that we work with share the same privacy protection standards that we have," said Barrett. "We have probably one of the highest standards of access, probably in the state," he said of Dane County. Sun Prairie Police Chief Kevin Warych said one of his takeaways from “The 9/11 Commission Report” was the importance of information sharing. “I’m 100% behind the license-plate reader technology,” Warych said, adding that they just have to do it the right way and "really gain the trust of the community, too.” What will other municipalities do? While the Sun Prairie Police Department currently uses Flock cameras, Warych said he will be meeting with city council members on the issue before bringing forth a budget initiative in July. “I have not made a decision either way,” he said of keeping Flock or going with another vendor. “But I am sold on the technology.” Asked about the idea of coordinating with other nearby police departments and the sheriff’s office to have the same vendor, Warych said “I can say that this is a frequent topic of our chief’s meetings.” In a recent guest column in area newspapers, Sheriff Barrett wrote that there are approximately 16 companies that offer “advanced ALPR systems with robust privacy safeguards, reliable performance in rural environments, and proven track records in balancing public safety with individual rights.” "Obviously we'd love to all be on the same one," Barrett said in an interview, but noted that each community has different budgets. "Once we … get the approval, then we can start focusing on how that will interact with other agencies." "The community trusts us with firearms ... they trust us to do a lot,” said Barrett. “Trust us with the ALPR." Facebook Twitter WhatsApp SMS Email Print Copy article link Save More information Dane County Board votes to cut funding for Flock license-plate reader cameras The Dane County Board has voted to remove funding from the Sheriff’s Office for use of its Flock Safety automated license plate reader system … Tags Alpr Cameras Automated License Plate Reader Camera Flock Safety Cameras Dane County Sheriff's Office Dane County Board $80,000 Crime Solving Law Enforcement Agencies Privacy Surveillance Creep Kalvin Barrett Kevin Warych Wtw Request For Proposals City Of Sun Prairie City Of Monona City Of Fitchburg City Of Oshkosh City Of Verona Village Of Mcfarland Chris Lee Author email Follow Chris Lee Trending Now Fire causes extensive damage to Windsor home Plans revealed for new Windsor subdivision Firefighter OK after ceiling collapses during Windsor house fire Court dismisses suit to prevent DeForest's fluoride addition Man dies after rollover crash in the Town of Burke Latest e-Edition To view our latest e-Edition, click the image on the left. Click Here to View Ads! Support Local Journalism in Classrooms You're on the list! Thanks for signing up. Keep an eye on your inbox for the next edition. ℹ️ You may want to whitelist emails from the-star@adamspg-email.com to make sure it doesn't go to your spam folder! The Star - Bi-weekly Update Get the latest news, sports, and weather delivered to your inbox every Tuesday and Friday at 5:00 am. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign Up Now By signing up, you agree to receive promotional emails. Cookie Preferences Sections Classifieds Videos & Photo Galleries Local Events Online Features Weather Services Contact Customer Service Contact Us Advertise Promote Your Event Subscribe Subscriber Savings Privacy Policy Terms of Service × Browser Compatibility Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks. We recommend switching to one of the following browsers: Microsoft Edge Google Chrome Firefox © Copyright 2026 hngnews.com 804 Liberty Blvd Suite 209, Sun Prairie, WI | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy Powered by BLOX Content Management System from BLOX Digital . Privacy Manager Back × Log In Register You are logged in Switch accounts Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. Back × Sign Up Account processing issue - the email address may already exist User information Username (Optional) This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely! * Email Address Your email address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else. * Password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address. * Confirm Password Confirm your password. Contact information Phone CAPTCHA Create Account or Sign up with Newzware Have an account? Log In × You're all set! Thank you . Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in. Check your email for details. OK Back × Log In Invalid password or account does not exist Email Address Password Forgot your password? Log In Email me a log in link or Sign in with Newzware Admin login Subscribe Need an account? Sign Up Back × Reset Password Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password. Email or Screen Name CAPTCHA Reset Password × Forgot Password An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account. Back × Email me a log in link Account Email CAPTCHA Send Email Back × Promotional Offers Enter Promo Code Redeem No promotional rates found. Back × Purchase Gift Purchase Access × An error occurred × Secure & Encrypted Sign in with Email Address Continue with Email Address or Continue with Newzware What's your email address? Email Password Confirm password Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123). Who is this gift for? Recipient name Recipient email Optional message for the recipient Who is this gift from? Purchaser name Purchaser email Delivery date Delivery date What's your billing location? State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip Code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe What's your delivery address? Copy billing location Address City State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington D.C. West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Puerto Rico US Virgin Islands Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Pacific Armed Forces Europe Northern Mariana Islands Marshall Islands American Samoa Federated States of Micronesia Guam Palau Alberta, Canada British Columbia, Canada Manitoba, Canada New Brunswick, Canada Newfoundland, Canada Nova Scotia, Canada Northwest Territories, Canada Nunavut, Canada Ontario, Canada Prince Edward Island, Canada Quebec, Canada Saskatchewan, Canada Yukon Territory, Canada Zip code Country United States of America US Virgin Islands United States Minor Outlying Islands Canada Mexico, United Mexican States Bahamas, Commonwealth of the Cuba, Republic of Dominican Republic Haiti, Republic of Jamaica Afghanistan Albania, People's Socialist Republic of Algeria, People's Democratic Republic of American Samoa Andorra, Principality of Angola, Republic of Anguilla Antarctica (the territory South of 60 deg S) Antigua and Barbuda Argentina, Argentine Republic Armenia Aruba Australia, Commonwealth of Austria, Republic of Azerbaijan, Republic of Bahrain, Kingdom of Bangladesh, People's Republic of Barbados Belarus Belgium, Kingdom of Belize Benin, People's Republic of Bermuda Bhutan, Kingdom of Bolivia, Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana, Republic of Bouvet Island (Bouvetoya) Brazil, Federative Republic of British Indian Ocean Territory (Chagos Archipelago) British Virgin Islands Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria, People's Republic of Burkina Faso Burundi, Republic of Cambodia, Kingdom of Cameroon, United Republic of Cape Verde, Republic of Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad, Republic of Chile, Republic of China, People's Republic of Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia, Republic of Comoros, Union of the Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Cook Islands Costa Rica, Republic of Cote D'Ivoire, Ivory Coast, Republic of the Cyprus, Republic of Czech Republic Denmark, Kingdom of Djibouti, Republic of Dominica, Commonwealth of Ecuador, Republic of Egypt, Arab Republic of El Salvador, Republic of Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Faeroe Islands Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Fiji, Republic of the Fiji Islands Finland, Republic of France, French Republic French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon, Gabonese Republic Gambia, Republic of the Georgia Germany Ghana, Republic of Gibraltar Greece, Hellenic Republic Greenland Grenada Guadaloupe Guam Guatemala, Republic of Guinea, Revolutionary People's Rep'c of Guinea-Bissau, Republic of Guyana, Republic of Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras, Republic of Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region of China Hrvatska (Croatia) Hungary, Hungarian People's Republic Iceland, Republic of India, Republic of Indonesia, Republic of Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq, Republic of Ireland Israel, State of Italy, Italian Republic Japan Jordan, Hashemite Kingdom of Kazakhstan, Republic of Kenya, Republic of Kiribati, Republic of Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait, State of Kyrgyz Republic Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon, Lebanese Republic Lesotho, Kingdom of Liberia, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein, Principality of Lithuania Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Macao, Special Administrative Region of China Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar, Republic of Malawi, Republic of Malaysia Maldives, Republic of Mali, Republic of Malta, Republic of Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania, Islamic Republic of Mauritius Mayotte Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco, Principality of Mongolia, Mongolian People's Republic Montserrat Morocco, Kingdom of Mozambique, People's Republic of Myanmar Namibia Nauru, Republic of Nepal, Kingdom of Netherlands Antilles Netherlands, Kingdom of the New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua, Republic of Niger, Republic of the Nigeria, Federal Republic of Niue, Republic of Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway, Kingdom of Oman, Sultanate of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama, Republic of Papua New Guinea Paraguay, Republic of Peru, Republic of Philippines, Republic of the Pitcairn Island Poland, Polish People's Republic Portugal, Portuguese Republic Puerto Rico Qatar, State of Reunion Romania, Socialist Republic of Russian Federation Rwanda, Rwandese Republic Samoa, Independent State of San Marino, Republic of Sao Tome and Principe, Democratic Republic of Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of Senegal, Republic of Serbia and Montenegro Seychelles, Republic of Sierra Leone, Republic of Singapore, Republic of Slovakia (Slovak Republic) Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia, Somali Republic South Africa, Republic of South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Spain, Spanish State Sri Lanka, Democratic Socialist Republic of St. Helena St. Kitts and Nevis St. Lucia St. Pierre and Miquelon St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sudan, Democratic Republic of the Suriname, Republic of Svalbard & Jan Mayen Islands Swaziland, Kingdom of Sweden, Kingdom of Switzerland, Swiss Confederation Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand, Kingdom of Timor-Leste, Democratic Republic of Togo, Togolese Republic Tokelau (Tokelau Islands) Tonga, Kingdom of Trinidad and Tobago, Republic of Tunisia, Republic of Turkey, Republic of Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda, Republic of Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom of Great Britain & N. Ireland Uruguay, Eastern Republic of Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Viet Nam, Socialist Republic of Wallis and Futuna Islands Western Sahara Yemen Zambia, Republic of Zimbabwe Phone Subtotal: Total: How would you like to pay? Add New Card I Agree to the Subscription Terms of Use. This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration. Secure transaction. Secure transaction. Cancel anytime. × You're all set! Thank you . Your gift purchase was successful! Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in. A receipt was sent to your email. OK × An error occurred This offer is currently unavailable. Close