source: packet.pdf
sha256: 30059144bb22df63709c924952cdf39de3d0e35a7950468c946430851d929d36
pages: 7
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
January 8, 2020
7:00 PM
City Hall Conference Room C
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Heather Wolnick, Chair
Vacant, Vice Chair
Eric Holm
J. Christopher Massey
Sean Williams
AGENDA
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Approval of Minutes
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of November 6, 2019.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request to
Speak" form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments may be
referred to staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
Review of Non-Resident Surcharge Policy for Recreation Programs
The department has no recommendation on this item. Rather, the department seeks input from the commission
with the 3 options below: 1. Leave the policy as is 2. Adjust the policy 3. Discontinue the Non-Resident Surcharge
3.
Election of Officers
Conduct election for Commission Vice Chair for the period of January 2020-June 2020
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agenda and background material can be viewed at City Hall, Parks and Recreation Department, 330 West 20th
Avenue, San Mateo (650) 522-7400 or on the City's website www.cityofsanmateo.org
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this
meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Department at (650) 522-7400 x 3 or parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org.
Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 7

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Park and Recreation Commission 
November 6, 2019 
7:00 PM 
 
City Hall – Conference Room C 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
 Heather Wolnick, Chair 
Amourence Lee, Vice Chair 
Eric Holm 
J. Christopher Massey 
Sean Williams  
MINUTES 
CALL TO ORDER  Chair Wolnick called the meeting to order at 7:00pm 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call  Commissioners Present:  Lee, Holm, Massey, Williams, and Wolnick 
Staff Present: Sheila Canzian, Director, Matthew Fried, Managing Arborist, Giovana Orozco, Administrative Technician, 
Vicki Wilson, Recording Secretary 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If 
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately. 
1. 
Approval of Minutes 
Commissioner Holm moved, seconded by Commissioner Williams to approve the Park and Recreation Commission 
Regular Meeting Minutes of October 2, 2019. Motion carried 4/0/1 abstention. Commissioner Massey abstained 
due to an excused absence from October meeting. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
There were no speakers. 
NEW BUSINESS 
2. 
Commemorative Tree Program – Review of Draft Policy 
Matthew Fried, Managing Arborist provided a brief overview on the background of the Commemorative tree 
Program draft policy. Commissioners posed questions and offered comment. Member of the Public, Karen 
Fitzpatrick, San Mateo spoke in favor of the item providing some suggestions. Commissioners suggested lightening 
up the tone of the policy for the public. Commissioners also suggested increasing the cost from $650 to $1000 to 
help cover costs with any extra funds going to a community tree planting fund. Commissioners felt strongly about 
providing a commemorative to those purchasing commemorative trees. Suggestions included certificates, 
groundbreaking opportunities with a photo, temporary ribbon on tree for families or friends to gather at for a 
small ceremony or installing small black markers in the ground naming tree species including a “donated by” line. 
There was also a suggestion to provide a map of commemorative trees if not in the park(s), then online. 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Sheila reported on the following events happening in December 
• 
Saturday November 9, 2019 - Ice Rink opening 
• 
December 6 & 7th – Winter Wonderland including tree lighting and ice-skating demo 
• 
December 14 & 15th – Holiday Festival of Dance 
2 of 7

--- page 3 ---
She also reported that Vicki will be retiring at the end of the December after 22 years with the City of San Mateo 
  
 
ADJOURNMENT  Chair Wolnick adjourned the meeting at 7:40pm. 
 
SUBMITTED BY: 
 
 
 
       Vicki Wilson                           
Vicki Wilson, Recording Secretary  
  
3 of 7

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 19-2317
TO:
Park & Recreation Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian
MEETING DATE:
January 08, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Review of Non-Resident Surcharge Policy for Recreation Programs
RECOMMENDATION:
The department has no recommendation on this item. Rather, the department seeks input from the commission with the 
3 options below: 
1.
Leave the policy as is 
2.
Adjust the policy 
3.
Discontinue the Non-Resident Surcharge
BACKGROUND:
The department is asking for the Parks and Recreation Commission to review the department’s current Non-Resident 
Surcharge Policy that was issued and approved on April 9, 2011 (Att 1 - Current Non-Resident Surcharge Policy).
To summarize the current policy, a non-resident program fee is calculated at resident rate plus
25% but not to exceed $25 above the total resident rate. In addition, there is no non-resident surcharge applied to the 
following programs:
Admission fees; Adult Sports Leagues; Swimfit memberships; Beresford Kids Club; Summer    
Camps listed in the Summer Camp Booklet; programs located at a private facility or SMFCSD; programs co-sponsored with 
another agency or if registrations may be made through the vendor and the vendor rate is less than ours would be with a 
non-resident surcharge.
Historically, residents are charged a lower rate to reflect their payment of city taxes and reward them for residing in their 
home city. However, in 2019, when considering the impact of the policy, we identified that with the passing of time, in 
many cases the $25 cap renders that benefit irrelevant as many courses exceed $100 and can be as high as $300.
As a result, when considering the value of a non-resident surcharge and the fact that 30% of our registered patrons are 
nonresidents, we may also want to consider that eliminating the non-resident surcharge may be an enticement for those 
residents in adjoining cities to favor our activities over other local cities. Removing the surcharge may also play a role in 
our ability to contract with instructors as many of our contract instructors are engaged by our neighboring cities.  
Anecdotally, having nonresidents participate in our programming could serve as word of mouth promotion and drive 
revenue for other local business such as restaurants and shops which in turn benefits the city.
As we consider the value of a non-resident surcharge, we surveyed other cities on the peninsula (See Att 2 - Neighboring 
Cities Non-Resident Surcharge Data) and found that most do apply a nonresident surcharge. We may want to consider that 
if this policy was retained, that the $25 maximum surcharge should be waived so that the policy be uniformly applied. We 
also have a priority registration period for current registrants that we could potentially look into expanding.
4 of 7

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
In 2019, we had a total of 882 non-resident registrations for courses that fall under the current policy that include a non-
resident charge. The received dollars from the surcharge amounted to approximately $22,000; the $22,000 is less than 1% 
of our overall activity registration revenue.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agenda item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Current Non-Resident Surcharge Policy
Att 2 - Neighboring Cities Non-Resident Surcharge Data
STAFF CONTACT
Bob Palacio, Community Services Manager
bpalacio@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7403
Sheila Canzian, Director, Park and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
5 of 7

--- page 6 ---
Recreation Division – City of San Mateo 
                             POLICY AND PROCEDURES MANUAL 
NUMBER:5-f-2 
Date issued: 4/9/11 
Modified:  
Page 1 of 1 
 
 
Policy: Non-Resident Surcharges 
Purpose/Background 
To give direction on how much surcharge should be added in calculating non-resident program and 
facility fees. 
Policy/Procedure 
Non-resident Facility fees for community centers and pools shall be calculated at resident rate plus 25%. 
Non-resident Program fees shall be calculated at resident rate plus 25% except that there will be a cap of 
$25 surcharge for each course registration, membership payment or scheduled payment. 
In addition, no non-resident surcharge will be applied to the following program fees: 
 Admission fees 
 Adult Sports Leagues 
 Swimfit memberships 
 Beresford Kids Club 
 Summer Camps listed in Summer Camp Booklet 
 Programs located at a private facility 
 Programs co-sponsored with another agency (City, CSM, Adult School, etc.) 
 Programs located at a San Mateo Foster City School District site, and held on dates when 
school is in session. 
 Senior Center- summer or other continuation of program by us that are usually sponsored 
by CSM. 
 If registrations may be made through us or the vendor, and the vendor rate is less than ours 
would be with a non-resident surcharge. 
 
 
6 of 7

--- page 7 ---
2019 Non-Resident Program Fee Information
Agency Name
Non-Resident 
Rates                
(Yes or No)
If 'Yes', Difference between  Res 
vs Non-Res
Notes
City of San Mateo
Yes
25% w/ $25 cap
excludes camps and partnered 
programs
City of Redwood City
No
N/A
residents register early 
City of Millbrae
Yes
$20 
City of Campbell
Yes
$5=$1-49; $7=$50-99; $10= $100+
scaled based on price of class
City of San Carlos
Yes
20%
City of Half Moon Bay
No
N/A
City of Cupertino
Yes
20%
Res vs Non-Res based on zip codes
City of San Bruno
Yes
$15 
City of Los Altos
Yes
17%
City of Brisbane
Yes
20%
City of Belmont
Yes
20% w/ $20 cap
City of Burlingame
Yes
20%
City of South San Fran
Yes
$15 
City of Menlo Park
Yes
35%
City of Mountain View
Yes
25%
City of Foster City
Yes
$10 
City of Sunnyvale
Yes
22%
Neighboring Parks and Recreation Depts
Non-Resident Information
7 of 7