source: packet.pdf
sha256: 09ebff5e01f429957448372840a9bf6ad7fbce42bfd218358e6de68c3c8b6d95
pages: 662
ocr_pages: 77
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
March 21, 2022
7:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Amourence Lee, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Diane Papan
Eric Rodriguez
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNMENT CODE 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: March 21, 2022 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 826 4302 1050
Passcode: 811633
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Society of Science / Regeneron Science Talent Search – San Mateo Finalists
2.
College of San Mateo 100th Anniversary
3.
Police Department Digital Forensic Unit – Forensic Partner Award from US Secret Service
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
4.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of March 7, 2022.
5.
Remote Teleconferenced City Council and Commission Meetings – Reauthorization
Adopt a Resolution to reauthorize remote teleconferenced City Council and Board and Commission meetings for
30 days, through April 22, 2022, as allowed by Assembly Bill 361 amending the Brown Act, based upon the
Governor’s emergency proclamation and findings that meeting in person would present imminent risks to the
health or safety of attendees.
6.
Ordinance Adoption – Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance Amendments
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior
Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” in accordance with changes to State law and to amend San Mateo
Municipal Code Section 27.04.165 by adding a definition for “Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit.”
1 of 662

--- page 2 ---
7.
Ordinance Introduction – Disposable Food Service Ware Code Amendment
Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 5.89 "Disposable Food Service Ware" to
align with the new State laws.
8.
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project – Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration
Adopt a Resolution to adopt the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Poplar at Golf Course Trash
Capture Project.
9.
Facility Naming Policy – Adoption
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Parks, Open Space Lands and Public Facility Naming Policy.
10.
Central Park Playground and Memorial Grove Final Design and Construction Management Service – Agreement
Approve an agreement with RRM Design Group for final design, construction documents and construction
administration services for the Central Park Playground and Memorial Grove improvement project in the amount
of $570,239; establish a contingency reserve of $50,000 for a total of $620,239; and authorize the Director of
Parks and Recreation to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders
within the contingency amount.
11.
Enterprise Resource Planning Software Licensing, Maintenance and Support Services – Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a contract with Tyler
Technologies, Inc. for Eden financial, human resources, and payroll annual maintenance and support in the
amount of $109,355.46, and authorize Information Technology Director to execute the contract in substantially
the form presented.
12.
State Route 92/El Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project – Funding Agreement
Adopt a Resolution and approve a funding agreement between the City and the San Mateo County Transportation
Authority for the State Route 92/El Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project.
13.
State Route 92/El Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project – Amendment No. 2
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with BKF Engineers for the State Route 92/El Camino Real
Interchange Landscape Improvements Project for a no-cost extension to the term of services.
14.
On-Call Professional Consultant Services
Approve amendments to extend the term of individual on-call professional consultant services agreements for no
additional costs with Wilsey Ham, WRECO, and Bellecci & Associates until June 30, 2023.
15.
Off-Site Plan Review Services – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the Professional Consultant Services Agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for off-
site plan review services in the amount of $100,000, for a new contract total of $199,000, and authorize the
Community Development Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
16.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Management Upgrade and Expansion Project –
Detroit Drive Public Right-of-Way Easement Dedication
Adopt a Resolution to dedicate a Public Right-of-Way Easement for the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and
Expansion Project at the adjacent northern section of Detroit Drive in substantially the form presented.
2 of 662

--- page 3 ---
17.
Wastewater Treatment Plant Backup Generator Rental – Change Order
Approve a Resolution to authorize an alternative purchasing procedure for a change order with HERC Rentals, Inc.
for the rental of an emergency generator at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in the amount of $82,000, for a
revised total amount not to exceed $172,000, and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change
order in substantially the form presented.
18.
East San Mateo Sanitary Sewer Lift Station Rehabilitation Project – Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 5 with Schaaf & Wheeler for professional design services for the East San Mateo
Sanitary Sewer Lift Station Rehabilitation Project in an amount not to exceed $871,424 for a total agreement
amount of $2,062,184; increase the contingency reserve by $63,626 for a total contingency balance of $87,200;
and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue
change orders within the contingency amount.
19.
City Library Fines – Late Fee Elimination
Approve the elimination of late fines at all San Mateo public libraries.
20.
Service Employees International Union Non-Merit Part Time Unit – Memorandum of Understanding Extension
Adopt a Resolution to extend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees International
Union (SEIU) Non-Merit Part Time Unit through June 10, 2023.
21.
San Mateo Management Employees Association - Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo Management Employees
Association to modify the salary increases.
22.
San Mateo Police Officers’ Association – Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the City of San Mateo Police Officers’
Association for a term through January 6, 2024.
23.
Interactive Pandemic Healing Art Wall Project – Agreement
Approve an Agreement with The Integrated Spirit, LLC for the temporary exhibition of a work of art for the
"Interactive Community Healing Wall"; in an amount not to exceed $2,200 for materials and shared insurance
costs from the Art in Public Places Fund, and authorize the Community Development Director to execute the
Agreement.
24.
General Plan, Housing Element, and Housing Successor Agency – 2021 Annual Progress Reports
Accept the Annual Progress Reports for General Plan, Housing Element, and Housing Successor Agency, and direct
the Community Development Director to file the reports with the State.
25.
Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permit Program – Adoption
Adopt a Resolution to approve an updated Outdoor Restaurant and Merchandise Display Encroachment Permit
program in order to add outdoor dining in the pedestrian mall area and change the name of the applicable fee
from Outdoor Restaurant Seating and Merchandise Display Encroachment Permit to Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall
Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permit in the Comprehensive Fee Schedule for 2021-22.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
3 of 662

--- page 4 ---
OLD BUSINESS
26.
Revenue Enhancement – Follow-up Discussion
Provide direction to staff whether to move forward with a revenue enhancement community survey for real
property transfer tax and/or a sales tax ballot measure.
27.
Stormwater Funding – Survey Findings
Receive an update on the Stormwater Funding Survey findings and staff recommendations for implementation of
a Stormwater Fee; and provide direction and related input.
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made. Judicial
review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date the
decision is made.
28.
330 Villa Terrace – Property Owner Appeal of Relocation Benefits
Deny the appeal and uphold the notice to pay relocation benefits to the tenant who resides at 330 Villa Terrace
due to unlawful substandard living conditions pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.50 “Property
Owner Obligations with Respect to Tenants Displaced from Unsafe or Substandard Units.”
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and
you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 662

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5759-02
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meetings of March 7, 2022.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Minutes 2022-03-07 Special
Att 2 – Minutes 2022-03-07 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
5 of 662

--- page 6 ---
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
Eric Rodriguez
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
March 7, 2022
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
CALL TO ORDER - This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / AB361 (2021) 
in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 health 
emergency.
Roll Call
Remote:
Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Members: Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
STUDY SESSION 
1.
City Council Strategic Plan – Draft Review
Assistant City Manager Kathy Kleinbaum gave the presentation on proposed work plans and resource 
requirements to address the City Council’s priorities for fiscal year 2022-23. Council asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment – Robert Whitehair and Megan Strain gave an organized presentation regarding City of San 
Mateo Climate Action Team actions. Adam Loraine supports studying North Central to maximize parking supply. 
Dr. Brazie’r commented on cannabis centers in San Mateo and noted he was directly impacted by parking issues. 
Seema Patel stated encouragement for a residential parking permit program. Raayan supports decarbonizing, a 
green fleet, and the need to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. Eric Holm expressed the need for more parking 
and traffic enforcement in North Central. 
Council discussion and deliberation ensued with a focus on parking issues and climate issues. Council provided 
direction and supported the staff recommendations for status changes on certain priorities.
2.
2022 Community Survey Results
Communications Manager Samantha Weigel and Dr. Timothy McLarney, Survey Consultant - True North Research, 
gave the informational report about the results of the City's Community Survey, conducted between late January 
and early February 2022 by True North Research. Council asked questions of staff and the consultant.
Public Comment – Raayan Montashemi spoke about implementing pedestrian projects and stated he did learn 
more from this survey. Jordan Grimes appreciated the presentation stating this should be kept in mind while 
considering the General Plan. Dr. Brazie’r would like the City to be more bike friendly, supports affordable housing, 
and is concerned with noise pollution.
ADJOURNMENT – The meeting adjourned at 7:21 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
6 of 662

--- page 7 ---
Rick Bonilla, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
7 of 662

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 03/07/2022
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rick Bonilla, Mayor
Diane Papan, Deputy Mayor
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
Eric Rodriguez
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
March 7, 2022
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:35 p.m. - This meeting was held pursuant to authorization from Government Code 54943(b)(3) / 
AB361 (2021) in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to participate virtually due to the Covid-19 
health emergency.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Remote: Mayor Bonilla, Deputy Mayor Papan, Council Members: Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
CEREMONIAL
1.
Women’s History Month
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 2 through 8, were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were read 
by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Rodriguez, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
Noes: 
None
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of February 22, 2022. 
3.
Remote Teleconferenced City Council and Commission Meetings – Reauthorization
Adopt a Resolution to reauthorize remote teleconferenced City Council and Board and Commission meetings for 
30 days, through April 6, 2022, as allowed by Assembly Bill 361 amending the Brown Act, based upon the 
Governor’s emergency proclamation and findings that meeting in person would present imminent risks to the 
health or safety of attendees. 
Enactment:  Resolution No. 20 (2022)
4.
Generator Purchase – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing method to award a contract to Multiquip for the purchase 
of two (2) MQPower Whisperwatt Emergency Generators in the amount of $154,617.49 and authorize the Public 
Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 21 (2022)
5.
Objective Design Standards for Multi-Family Dwellings – Amendment
8 of 662

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 03/07/2022
Page 2
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the agreement with MIG, Inc. for the preparation of Objective Design & 
Development Standards for Multi-Family Dwellings for an increase of $132,680 (new agreement total of $193,332) 
and authorize the City Manager to execute the amendment.
6.
San Mateo County Vehicle Theft Task Force – Memorandum of Understanding
Approve the Memorandum of Understanding between the City of San Mateo and the San Mateo County Vehicle 
Theft Task Force and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
7.
Classification Updates – Police Department
Adopt a Resolution to approve the: 1) reallocation of the Community Engagement and Public Relations 
Coordinator position to a Communications and Public Relations Analyst; 2) reclassification of the incumbent to 
Communications and Public Relations Analyst; and 3) revisions to the job specifications for the classifications of 
Communications and Public Relations Analyst and Police Records and Communications Manager.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 22 (2022)
8.
Classification and Position Updates - Police Department
Adopt a Resolution to reallocate one vacant Administrative Assistant position to one Management Analyst I/II 
position; and authorize one additional Management Analyst I/II position for the Police Department.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 23 (2022)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Public Comment - Guillermo Cockrum spoke in support of banning fossil fuels in San Mateo buildings; Vivienne Scott 
concerned with climate change and its impacts; Claire Shintani spoke of climate change concerns; Gary Trott strongly in 
favor of decarbonizing buildings in the 2022-23 goals; Robert Whitehair, Vida Hayashigatani, and James Higbie all 
commented on the climate crisis, decarbonizing existing buildings and eliminating methane gas by 2030.
PUBLIC HEARING
9.
Ordinance Introduction – Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance Amendments
Zach Dahl, Community Development Department Deputy Director, provided a presentation on the history of 
Council’s consideration of an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) ordinance, previous direction given, permitting data, 
and offered alternate language amendments to the ordinance. Council asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment – Jo Coco concerned with going above what the state is mandating. Martin Wiggins stated the 
need to allow more homes in San Mateo. Eric Holm concerned with alignment with SB 9 with regard to ADUs. 
Jordan Grimes read the law and asked a question. Seema Patel cautioned to not be too restrictive. Raayan 
Monteshemi encouraged due diligence with state laws. Linda Bogue stated one size does not fit all, need balance 
with each neighborhood. 
Council questions and discussion ensued with regard to specific aspects of the proposed ordinance with regard to 
the plateline, set-backs, height, adjacency, parking concerns, differences between attached and detached ADUs 
and the purpose of discretionary review. 
Direction given to include discretionary review process and add a finding that provides instruction to the ZA adding 
adding the required onsite parking shall be a consideration when approving additional height and waiving the fee 
for discretionary review. 
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance, as modified, to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory 
Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” in accordance with changes to State law and 
9 of 662

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 03/07/2022
Page 3
to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.04.165 by adding a definition for “Junior accessory dwelling unit.” 
Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee, Goethals and Rodriguez
Noes: 
None
CLOSED SESSION
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the Council convened into closed session to 
consider: 
10.
City Manager Compensation
Agency designated representative: Mayor Rick Bonilla / Unrepresented employee: City Manager
RECONVENE TO OPEN SESSION
11.
City Manager Compensation
Council reported that in closed session agreement was reached to increase the City Manager’s salary by 4%, to 
$23,655.31 monthly with the effective date the beginning of the next pay period. Public Comment – there were no 
speakers. 
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to authorize compensation increase for the City Manager at 4%. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Rodriguez
Ayes: 
Bonilla, Papan, Lee, Goethals, and Rodriguez
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 24 (2022)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. Mayor Bonilla 
expressed interest in participating in the 2022 Wyland. Council by consensus agreed to bring back for conversation.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 9:40 pm following a moment of silence in honor of Alan Hammer who was 
the Superintendent for the Parks and Recreation Department during the late 1960s and early 70s.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Rick Bonilla, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
10 of 662

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5410-09
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022
SUBJECT:
Remote Teleconferenced City Council and Commission Meetings – Reauthorization 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to reauthorize remote teleconferenced City Council and Board and Commission meetings for 30 days, 
through April 22, 2022, as allowed by Assembly Bill 361 amending the Brown Act, based upon the Governor’s emergency 
proclamation and findings that meeting in person would present imminent risks to the health or safety of attendees. 
BACKGROUND:
At its October 18, 2021, City Council meeting, the Council adopted Resolution No. 100 (2021) authorizing continued 
remote meetings of the Council and its subordinate legislative bodies due to the imminent risk to the health and safety of 
attendees due to possible transmission of COVID-19 and the recent spread of variants. The resolution became effective 
October 18, 2021 through November 17, 2021, or until the City Council adopts a subsequent resolution. AB 361 requires 
confirming the emergency circumstances 30 days after the first teleconference meeting and every 30 days thereafter. At 
the October 18 meeting, the Council accepted staff’s recommendation to pass a resolution at every meeting to ensure 
there is no gap in the effectiveness of authorizing resolutions. The action being requested at this March 21st meeting is to 
adopt a resolution reauthorizing remote teleconferenced Council and Commission meetings per the requirements of 
Assembly Bill 361. 
It was noted in the original resolution that current health orders require masking in all indoor facilities due to health and 
safety concerns. While San Mateo County Health Order No. c19-12 (which required masking in workplaces and public 
settings) was rescinded on February 16, 2022, the Delta and Omicron variants are highly transmissible in indoor settings 
and requires multi-component prevention strategies to reduce their spread. Thus, as of February 16, 2022, the California 
Department of Public Health still requires masking for unvaccinated people (and recommends the practice for all) in indoor 
public settings as well as in state and local government offices that serve the public. Returning to meeting in the Council 
Chambers or smaller conference rooms means being in an enclosed space for meetings that commonly last for one to five 
hours and would seem to create additional exposure for participants to a possible transmission of the virus. This health 
advice is still in place.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for taking this action as all software and hardware needs to meet remotely have already been 
purchased and are in use.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of this resolution authorizing remote teleconferenced meetings of the City Council and City Boards and 
Commission is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
11 of 662

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
12 of 662

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2022)
REAUTHORIZING REMOTE TELECONFERENCE MEETINGS OF THE LEGISLATIVE BODIES OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
EFFECTIVE MARCH 21, 2022 UNTIL THE EARLIER OF APRIL 22, 2022 OR SUCH TIME THE CITY COUNCIL ADOPTS A 
SUBSEQUENT RESOLUTION, PURSUANT TO THE BROWN ACT 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is committed to preserving and nurturing public access and participation in 
meetings of the City Council and its Boards and Commissions; and
 
WHEREAS, all meetings of City of San Mateo’s legislative bodies are open and public, as required by the 
Ralph M. Brown Act (Cal. Gov. Code 54950 – 54963), so that any member of the public may attend, participate, and 
watch the City’s legislative bodies conduct their business; and
 
WHEREAS, the Brown Act, Government Code section 54953(e), makes provisions for remote 
teleconferencing participation in meetings by members of a legislative body, without compliance with the 
requirements of Government Code section 54953(b)(3), subject to the existence of certain conditions; and
 
WHEREAS, a required condition is that a state of emergency is declared by the Governor pursuant to 
Government Code section 8625, proclaiming the existence of conditions of disaster or of extreme peril to the safety 
of persons and property within the state caused by conditions as described in Government Code section 8558; and
 
WHEREAS, a proclamation is made when there is an actual incident, threat of disaster, or extreme peril to 
the safety of persons and property within the jurisdictions that are within the City’s boundaries, caused by natural, 
technological, or human-caused disasters; and
 
WHEREAS, it is further required that state or local officials have imposed or recommended measures to 
promote social distancing, or, the legislative body meeting in person would present imminent risks to the health and 
safety of attendees; and
 
WHEREAS, such conditions now exist in the City, specifically, the Governor has proclaimed that a state of 
emergency exists for the state of California due to the conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact 
on the health and safety of its residents; and
 
WHEREAS, the Delta and Omicron variants are highly transmissible in indoor spaces, and the California 
Department of Public Health recommends wearing masks in indoor spaces that do not offer fresh air from the 
outdoors; and  
WHEREAS, in accordance with Assembly Bill 361, the City Council does hereby find that as a result of the 
emergency, meeting in person would present imminent risks to the health or safety of attendees and the Council 
desires to authorize continued remote teleconferenced meetings of its legislative bodies; and
WHEREAS, as a consequence of the local emergency, the City Council does hereby find that the legislative 
bodies of the City of San Mateo shall conduct their meetings without compliance with paragraph (3) of subdivision 
(b) of Government Code section 54953, as authorized by subdivision (e) of section 54953, and that such legislative 
13 of 662

--- page 14 ---
Resolution No. ___ (2022)
Page 2 of 2
Reauthorizing Remote Teleconference Meetings 
bodies shall comply with the requirements to provide the public with access to the meetings as prescribed in 
paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of section 54953; and  
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has taken measures to conduct public meetings via virtual tools that allow 
for members of its legislative bodies and members of the public to join and participate in meetings remotely and 
provide public testimony in the virtual environment and via teleconference; and
WHEREAS, on October 18, 2021, the City Council adopted a resolution authorizing remote teleconference 
meetings of San Mateo legislative bodies, effective until the earlier of November 17, 2021 or when the City Council 
adopts a subsequent resolution; and
WHEREAS, the City Council has since adopted multiple resolutions authorizing remote teleconferencing, and 
this resolution represents a reauthorization of such remote teleconference meetings, pursuant to the Brown Act.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY FIND AND 
RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:
1.
Recitals. The Recitals set forth above are true and correct and are incorporated into this Resolution by 
this reference.
2. AB 361 Findings. 
a.
On March 4, 2020, the Governor of the State of California issued a Proclamation of State of 
Emergency, which remains in effect.
b.
Meeting in person would present imminent risk to the health or safety of attendees, because:
(1) The Delta and Omicron variants of the coronavirus are highly transmissible in indoor settings.
(2) The California Department of Public Health Recommends wearing masks in indoor spaces that 
do not offer fresh air from the outdoors.
3. Remote Teleconference Meetings. The City Manager and legislative bodies of the City of San Mateo are 
hereby authorized and directed to take all actions necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this 
Resolution including, conducting remote teleconferenced meetings in accordance with Government 
Code section 54953(e) and other applicable provisions of the Brown Act.
4. Effective Date and Term. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption and shall be 
effective until the earlier of (i) April 22, 2022, or (ii) such time the City Council adopts a subsequent 
resolution in accordance with Government Code section 54953(e)(3) to extend the time during which 
the legislative bodies of the City of San Mateo may continue to teleconference without compliance with 
paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of section 54953.
14 of 662

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5904
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance Amendments
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory 
Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” in accordance with changes to State law and to amend San Mateo Municipal Code 
Section 27.04.165 by adding a definition for “Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit.”
BACKGROUND:
On March 7, 2022, the City Council voted to introduce an ordinance that amended the City’s Accessory Dwelling Unit 
(ADU) regulations. As part of the introduction, the Council included a provision that encouraged detached ADUs, when 
seeking approval to exceed the height limit, to provide additional off-street parking.  That provision is included as 
subsection 27.19.045(b)(4) in the ordinance (Attachment 1) and is highlighted. The Council also requested that the ADU 
ordinance be brought back to in a year to receive an update on ordinance implementation and permitting activity. This 
requested has been noted and an update will be scheduled for spring of 2023, 12 months after the ADU ordinance has 
been in effect. Following adoption, the ADU ordinance will be submitted to the State Department of Housing and 
Community Development (HCD) for final review and acceptance, as required by State law.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Costs associated with the ADU ordinance, including staff time and other related activities, is funded as part of the 
Community Development Department’s annual budget. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – ADU Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Zachary Dahl, AICP, Deputy Director
zdahl@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7207
15 of 662

--- page 16 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ORDINANCE
Amend Section 27.04.165 “Dwelling,” to add a definition for “Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit,” and Amend 
Various Sections of Chapter 27.19, “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential 
Zones,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code
WHEREAS, an existing ordinance addressing accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units 
is codified at Chapter 27.19; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Sections 65852.2 and 65852.22 govern accessory dwelling units and junior 
accessory dwelling units and were recently amended; and
WHEREAS, these changes in state law necessitate amendments to Chapter 27.19; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(a)(1)(B) authorizes cities to impose standards on 
accessory dwelling units in conformance with state law that include, but are not limited to, parking, height, 
setback, landscape, architectural review, maximum unit size, and standards that prevent adverse impacts on any 
real property that is listed in the California Register of Historic Resources; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(h)(A) provides that the state Department of Housing and 
Community Development (HCD) is to make findings regarding local agency ordinance compliance with Section 
65852.2.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings. The City Council of the City of San Mateo finds:
(a) The City’s amended ordinance that establishes development standards for accessory dwelling units 
and junior accessory dwelling units is consistent with Government Code Sections 65852.2 and 65852.22.
(b) The side and rear setback and parking standards for accessory dwelling units in the City’s amended 
ordinance are in conformance with Government Code Section 65852.2(a)(1)(B).
(c) In order to allow vehicles exiting lots to see passing pedestrians and vehicles, ADUs are not permitted 
within a required front yard setback.
Section 2. Subsection (c) of Section 27.04.165 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.04.165 DWELLING.
"Dwelling" means a building or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy, 
including a one-family dwelling unit, an accessory dwelling unit, a junior accessory unit, a two-family dwelling 
unit, and a multiple-family dwelling unit but does not include a hotel, motel, boarding or lodging houses or other 
lodging facilities, or a vessel or boat, or a house trailer.
16 of 662

--- page 17 ---
(a) "Accessory dwelling unit" means an attached or detached residential dwelling unit which provides 
complete independent living facilities for one or more persons, is accessory to the primary single-family 
residential dwelling unit, and includes permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking facilities and 
sanitation on the same parcel as the primary residential dwelling unit.
(b) "Bachelor, efficiency or studio unit" means a dwelling unit consisting of one principal room used for 
living and sleeping purposes, plus cooking facilities, a bathroom, and closets.
(c) "Junior accessory dwelling unit" means an additional, independent living unit constructed within the 
walls of a proposed or legally existing single-family residence, including attached garages.
(d) "Multiple-family dwelling" means a building or portion thereof, designed or altered for occupancy by 
three or more families living independently of each other.
(e) "One-family dwelling" means a building containing one cooking facility only and designed exclusively 
for use and occupancy by one family, including the provision of interior access to all bedrooms, and may include 
a junior accessory dwelling unit within the principal dwelling.
(f) "Two-family dwelling" means a building(s) designed or altered to provide attached (duplex) or 
detached dwelling units for occupancy by two families living independently of each other.
Section 3. Section 27.19.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.010 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in 
accordance with state law.
Section 4. Section 27.19.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.020 RESERVED.
Section 5. Section 27.19.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.030 PROHIBITION ON SALE AND LIMITATION ON RENTAL.
(a) An ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.
(b) If an ADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar 
days.
Section 6. Section 27.19.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.040 MINISTERIAL PERMIT APPROVAL.
An ADU permit application for either an attached or a detached ADU is required in order to demonstrate 
that a unit is in compliance with the provisions of this Article. If the ADU is in full compliance with the provisions 
17 of 662

--- page 18 ---
of this Article, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit will be issued.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 
this Code, the issuance of a ministerial ADU permit is not appealable.
Section 7. Section 27.19.045 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.19 as follows:  
27.19.045 DISCRETIONARY REVIEW AS ALTERNATIVE TO MINISTERIAL APPROVAL.
(a) As an alternative to ministerial review, an applicant may submit an application for discretionary 
review of an ADU proposal that is not in full compliance with the provisions of this Article. 
(b) The application for discretionary approval shall be granted if the Zoning Administrator finds each of 
the following:
(1) The proposed ADU is consistent with all applicable objective design standards in the adopted 
R1 Single-Family Dwelling Design Guidelines; 
(2) The proposed ADU would not result in a negative privacy impact on an abutting residential 
lot; and
(3) The proposed ADU would not result in a negative impact to public health, safety, or welfare.
(4) The proposed ADU, when detached and exceeding the height limit, should provide at least 
one additional off-street parking space.
(c) The decision of the Zoning Administrator shall not preclude the ability of an applicant to receive a 
ministerial permit pursuant to Section 27.19.040 for an ADU that is in full compliance with the provisions of this 
Article.
(d) The decision of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the Planning Commission, and the 
decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City Council, in accordance with SMMC 27.08.090. 
Section 8. Section 27.19.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.050 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
An ADU, as defined in Section 27.04.165, shall comply with the following development standards:
(a) Permitted Zoning Districts. ADUs shall only be constructed on a lot zoned to allow residential uses.
(b) Number of Units. No more than the number of ADUs allowed by state law may be constructed on 
any lot. 
(c) State Exempted “By Right” ADUs. An attached or detached ADU of at least 800 square-feet in size 
and of at least 16 feet in building height with four-foot side and rear setbacks may be constructed on a lot 
regardless of any size limitation based on the size of the proposed or existing primary dwelling, lot coverage, 
floor area ratio, daylight plane, open space, or minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude or limit its 
18 of 662

--- page 19 ---
construction. The floor area of any new ADU in excess of 800 square feet shall be applied to the maximum floor 
area allowance of the subject lot as prescribed by the underlying zoning district. 
(d) Maximum Unit Size. Floor area size maximums for both attached and detached ADU development in 
excess of 800 square feet are governed by the floor area maximum established by the underlying zoning district 
and remaining floor area allowance available on the lot. In instances when the existing floor area allowance of a 
lot has been fully utilized, only the state exempted “by right” ADU of up to 800 square feet is permitted.
(1) Accessory Dwelling Unit Conversions. An ADU conversion within the walls of an existing 
primary residence or accessory structure is not subject to size requirements. ADU conversions may be 
expanded up to 150 square feet beyond the existing footprint provided the expansion is used to 
accommodate ingress and egress to the ADU. 
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit. Subject to the floor 
area requirements, one new detached ADU may be constructed on a lot with a junior accessory dwelling 
unit (JADU). 
(e) Height. The specific height maximums are applicable to all zoning districts which permit ADUs.
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for an attached ADU is 24 feet 
to top plateline and 32 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Units. Maximum building height for a detached ADU is 16 feet 
to top plateline and 24 feet to roof peak as measured from existing grade. 
(3) Alternative Discretionary Review for Detached Accessory Dwelling Units.  For a detached 
ADU proposed to exceed the height limit, an application for discretionary review, pursuant to Section 
27.19.045, shall be submitted.
(f) Setbacks. An ADU shall have setbacks as follows:
(1) No setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted garage or accessory structure 
that is converted to an ADU which is constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions as 
the existing structure.
(2) A minimum setback of four feet shall be required from the side and rear lot lines for all new 
ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, including ADUs constructed 
above an existing legally permitted garage.
(3) A minimum setback from the front lot line, as required in the lot’s underlying zone district, 
shall be required for all new ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, 
including ADUs constructed above an existing legally permitted garage.
(g) The ADU, whether attached or detached, shall provide a separate exterior entrance, and permanent 
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
19 of 662

--- page 20 ---
(h) Location of Accessory Dwelling Unit. The ADU may be within, attached to, or detached from the 
primary dwelling unit. ADUs shall be accessory to the primary residence and are permitted in the same locations 
on the parcel as the primary residence as specified in the underlying zoning district.
(i) Number and Type of Required Parking Spaces.
(1) General Requirements. There shall be a minimum of one standard size off-street parking 
space for each ADU. All required parking spaces shall be a minimum of 10 feet wide by 18 feet long 
without any obstructions. Parking associated with ADU or JADU development, whether required or 
voluntary, must be located entirely on the same lot, and may be provided in a garage, carport, 
uncovered, or in tandem orientation. Additionally, maximum driveway width for single-car garages may 
be up to 20 feet to accommodate additional off-street parking. The required parking for the primary 
residential dwelling unit must comply with current standards, as specified by the underlying zoning 
district.
(2) Location of Parking for Accessory Dwelling Units.  Parking for the accessory dwelling unit may 
be located in the required front, side, and rear yard setback areas. 
(3) Replacement off-street parking is not required when a garage, carport, or covered parking 
structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU or converted to an ADU. 
(4) Parking Exemptions.  No additional off-street parking shall be required for an ADU in the 
following instances:
(A) The ADU is located within one-half (1/2) mile walking distance of public transit; or
(B) The ADU is located within an architecturally and historically significant historic 
district; or
(C) The ADU is in part of the proposed or existing legally permitted primary residence or 
an existing legally permitted accessory structure; or
(D) In an area requiring on-street parking, permits are required but not offered to the 
occupant of the ADU; or
(E) When the ADU is located within one block of a car share location.
(5) Voluntary Parking. If no parking space is required, a maximum of one off-street parking space 
per ADU or JADU may be voluntarily provided.
(j) Architectural Standards. New ADUs and conversions of an existing legally permitted structure shall be 
designed to comply with the following standards:
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. ADUs that are attached to the primary dwelling unit 
shall:
20 of 662

--- page 21 ---
(A) Be of the same architectural style as the primary dwelling unit;
(B) Be constructed of similar exterior materials, finishes, and family of colors as the 
primary dwelling unit; 
(C) Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy; and
(D) Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of the R-1 zoning district as 
applied to the nearest adjacent side and rear lot lines.
(i) Application of the daylight plane requirement shall not preclude a State 
Exempted “By Right” ADU as defined in this Chapter.
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit. An ADU that is detached from the primary dwelling unit 
shall:
(A) In instances when an ADU is attached to an accessory structure, provide a uniform 
and integrated design with that accessory structure;
(B) Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy;
(C) Provide and maintain obscured glazing on second-story windows up to five feet from 
the finished floor when the windows are located within five feet of a lot line with an abutting 
residential lot;
(D) When an exterior staircase is proposed, it shall have a setback of at least five feet 
from the nearest lot line and the size of the second story landing shall be limited to the 
minimum area required to allow ingress and egress as specified by the California Building Code;
(i) For an ADU that seeks to have a larger second story deck, an application for 
discretionary review, pursuant to Section 27.19.045, shall be submitted.
(E) Be designed to meet the daylight plane requirements of the R-1 zoning district as 
applied to the nearest adjacent side and rear lot lines.  
(k) Development Impact Fees. Development impact fees for ADUs shall be established in an amount set 
forth by resolution of the City Council. 
(l) Utility Service. If an ADU is constructed within existing space, a separate water connection, a sewer 
service connection, or power connection is not required for an ADU. If an ADU is not constructed within existing 
space, the City may require new or separate utility connections.
(m) Utility Fees. For an ADU located within an existing structure, payment of a connection fee or 
capacity charge is not required. For an ADU that is separate from an existing structure, the City will require 
payment of a connection fee or capacity charge that is proportionate to the ADU’s burden.
21 of 662

--- page 22 ---
(n) Address Assignment.  An application for a building permit for an ADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment.
(o) Other Requirements. All other zoning requirements shall be complied with unless an authorized 
variance is approved.
(p) For ADUs proposed within an existing multi-family structure or on a lot with an existing multi-family 
dwelling, the provisions of Government Code Section 65852.2(e)(1) apply. 
Section 9. Section 27.19.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.060 RESERVED.
Section 10. Section 27.19.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.070 PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs).
Section 11. Section 27.19.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.080 RESERVED.
Section 12. Section 27.19.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.090 PROHIBITION ON SALE AND LIMITATION ON RENTAL.
(a) A JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.
(b) If a JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar 
days.
Section 13. Section 27.19.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.100 MINISTERIAL PERMIT REQUIRED.
A JADU permit application is required in order to demonstrate that the unit is in compliance with the 
provisions of this Article. If the JADU is in full compliance with the provisions of this Article, a ministerial, non-
discretionary permit shall be issued.
Section 14. Section 27.19.110 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.110 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
A "junior accessory dwelling unit," as defined in Section 27.04.165, must comply with the following 
development standards:
22 of 662

--- page 23 ---
(a) Permitted Zoning Districts. JADUs shall only be constructed on lots zoned to allow single-family 
residential use, or for which a single-family residence exists or is proposed to be built. The residential lot shall 
not be part of a condominium, townhouse, or other multi-family development.
(b) Limit to the Number of Junior Accessory Dwelling Units. The number of JADUs is limited to one per 
residential lot with a single-family residence. Lots with multi-family housing or more than one detached single-
family dwelling are not eligible for JADUs.
(c) Setback and Other Zoning Regulations. For purposes of setbacks and other zoning regulations, the 
JADU shall be considered to be a part of the principal use of subject site and shall be subject to the same 
requirements of the underlying zoning district.
(d) Maximum Unit Size. The floor area of a JADU shall not exceed 650 square feet, including attic and 
basement areas as defined in Section 27.04.200 for the applicable zoning district.
(e) Construct within Existing Structure. The JADU shall be constructed within the walls of the proposed 
or legally existing single-family dwelling unit, including an attached garage. Detached accessory structures, 
including detached garages or carports, are not permitted to be converted into JADUs.
(f) Unit Access. A JADU must include:
(1) A separate exterior entry from the main entrance to the single-family dwelling, which shall 
be provided to serve the JADU only; and
(2) An interior entry access between the JADU and the single-family dwelling. This interior entry 
access may be a door equipped with a double lock. A permitted JADU may include a second interior door 
for sound attenuation.
(g) Efficiency Food Preparation Area. A JADU shall include an efficiency kitchen that includes the 
following components:
(1) Cooking facility with appliances; and
(2) Food preparation counter and storage with cabinets that are of reasonable size in relation to 
the size of the JADU.
(h) Sanitation Facilities. A JADU may include its own separate sanitation facilities or may share sanitation 
facilities with the primary dwelling unit.
(i) Building and Fire Requirements.
(1) No fire wall separation or noise attenuation measures are required between the main 
dwelling and the JADU. No fire sprinklers are required for the JADU, unless the associated improvements 
meet the threshold for a "substantial remodel" as defined by Chapter 23, Building and Construction, of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code. The JADU shall have an adjoining door connected to the main living area 
23 of 662

--- page 24 ---
for fire separation. A smoke alarm shall be required in the JADU and shall be connected to the smoke 
alarm in the main residence.
(2) The JADU shall be equipped with a carbon monoxide detector.
(j) Utility Service. A separate water connection, a separate sewer service connection, and power 
connection as water, sewer, and power service is not required for a JADU.
(k) Parking. No additional off-street parking is required for a JADU.
(l) Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for a JADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment.
Section 15. Section 27.19.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.120 RECORDATION OF DEED RESTRICTION.
(a) A deed restriction shall be recorded to run with the land and submitted to the City prior to building 
permit issuance which indicates the following:
(1)  The property owner must occupy either the single-family residence or the JADU.
(2) If the JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days.
(3) Sale of the JADU separately from the single-family residence is prohibited.
(4) The approved size and attributes of the JADU.
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant.
Section 16. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21080.17 and 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15282(h), the portion of this ordinance 
addressing accessory dwelling units is statutorily exempt from CEQA, because it relates to second units in a 
single family or multifamily residential zone.  In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), the 
portion of this ordinance addressing junior accessory dwelling units is exempt from CEQA, because it can be 
seen with certainty that there is no possibility that amending the City’s Zoning Code to comply with state law 
requirements pertaining to junior accessory dwelling units within existing residences will have a significant effect 
on the environment.
Section 17. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 18. Publication. This ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
24 of 662

--- page 25 ---
Section 19. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
25 of 662

--- page 26 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5831
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Introduction – Disposable Food Service Ware Code Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 5.89 "Disposable Food Service Ware" to align 
with the new State laws.
BACKGROUND:
Many disposable food service ware items, such as cups, utensils, straws, and clamshells are made from plastic and used for 
mere minutes before becoming waste that remains in our landfills for hundreds of years. These items are also a major 
contributor to street litter and pollution in our waterways. In 2020, the County of San Mateo developed a model ordinance 
that requires food facilities distribute disposable food service ware items that are compostable and provide disposable 
accessories (e.g., straws, utensils, condiment packets) upon request. In February 2021, the City of San Mateo adopted 
Ordinance No. 2021-3 modeled off the County’s ordinance. In August 2021, the City entered into a Memorandum of 
Understanding (MOU) with the County to enforce the ordinance beginning October 1, 2022. This delayed enforcement 
date allows food facilities to use up existing food service ware inventory and evaluate compliant products for future use. 
Since the adoption of the City’s Disposable Food Service Ware Ordinance, the State of California adopted Assembly Bills 
1276 and 1200 addressing disposables at food facilities. The new legislation has a similar intent to the City’s adopted 
ordinance but there are a few nuanced differences.  This report provides an overview of the two new laws and includes a 
draft ordinance for Council consideration. The draft ordinance was revised under County guidance and includes changes to 
align with the AB 1276 and AB 1200. 
New Laws Impacting the City’s Disposable Food Service Ware Ordinance
AB 1276: Single-use foodware accessories and standard condiments
AB 1276 requires food facilities only distribute disposable accessories such as utensils, stirrers, splash sticks, and 
condiment packets upon request by the customer, with an exception for drive-throughs. AB 1276 also prohibits the use of 
open bins or containers to distribute accessories but allows the use of refillable dispensers that dispense accessories one 
item at a time and refillable bulk condiment dispensers. The law directs local governments to authorize an enforcement 
agency to enforce these statutes by June 1, 2022 but does not provide a specific implementation date.
AB 1200: Plant-based food packaging
AB 1200 prohibits the sale or distribution of all single-use fiber-based food service ware with intentionally added 
perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, a class of hazardous chemicals known as PFAS. PFAS are often used to make 
fiber-based food ware water and grease resistant. AB 1200 prohibits the sale or distribution of single-use food ware 
comprised of paper or other plant-based natural fiber that contains intentionally added PFAS beginning January 1, 2023.
26 of 662

--- page 27 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Ordinance Amendment
Currently, the City’s adopted ordinance requires the distribution of disposable accessories upon request by the customer 
at all food facilities and allows the use of open bins and containers for the distribution of accessories. The draft ordinance 
is updated to prohibit the use of open bins and containers for disposable accessories. Furthermore, the draft ordinance 
explicitly allows for the use of dispensers that dispense accessories one at a time and the use of self-serve, refillable bulk 
condiment dispensers to distribute condiments. The draft ordinance also makes drive-throughs exempt from the 
distribution requirements for accessories.
Currently, the City’s ordinance restricts the use of PFAS in specific types of food service ware. To align with AB 1200, staff 
recommends adding language for the City’s PFAS requirement to end on December 31, 2022 before AB 1200 goes into 
effect on January 1, 2023. AB 1200 will require all disposable food service ware to not contain intentionally added PFAS. 
A clean copy of the draft ordinance is provided as Attachment 1, and a tracked changes version that reflects the changes 
from the City’s current ordinance is included as Attachment 2. The majority of the changes were made to Municipal Code 
Section 5.89.010, “Definitions,” and Section 5.89.020, “Distribution of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories,” to align 
with AB 1276. To align with AB 1200, Municipal Code Section 5.89.030, “Standards and Required Use of Disposable Food 
Service Ware,” was modified. In addition to these changes, the County used this opportunity to recommend minor 
changes to some definitions and to clarify and simplify language in the ordinance. 
Next Steps
Due to the State’s adoption of these new bills, County staff changed the enforcement date of the County ordinance from 
March 25, 2022, to October 1, 2022. County staff are also recommending that other cities with the same March 
enforcement date delay enforcement to align with the County’s October 1, 2022, enforcement date. The City of San Mateo 
already has an October 1, 2022, enforcement date and as a result will now align with the timeline of the County and other 
jurisdictions that have adopted the ordinance. In February 2021, staff had recommended having a delayed enforcement 
date in effort to benefit from any lessons learned in the initial roll out of the ordinance in other jurisdictions. Staff now 
recommends keeping the October 1, 2022, enforcement date to align with the County’s unified approach. 
Beginning this summer, the County plans on the following outreach and engagement activities to prepare food facilities for 
the October 1 enforcement date:

The County will send mailers alerting food facilities of the upcoming enforcement start date and available 
resources and technical support.

The County will host a workshop (virtual or in-person TBD) reviewing ordinance requirements and a “meet-and-
greet” with vendors that sell compliant disposable food ware.

The County will make phone calls to impacted food facilities to inform them of the ordinance, upcoming 
enforcement start date, and workshop.

The County will develop social media posts and share social media content with cities to repost. The County will 
also share ordinance information via digital ads and public service announcements on the radio.

The County will share content with relevant community-based groups (e.g., NGOs, chambers, business districts, 
etc.) within each jurisdiction and waste haulers for them to push out to their networks.

The County will staff a hotline for food facilities to call in with questions.
Staff recommends City Council adopt the draft ordinance amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 5.89 “Disposable 
Food Service Ware,” to align with the newly adopted State bills. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact as a result of adopting the ordinance amendment. The City has an MOU with the County of San 
Mateo to lead technical support, outreach, education, and enforcement activities for the Disposable Food Service Ware 
Ordinance. The County’s support will minimize the impact on City resources for implementation of the ordinance. City staff 
will provide some implementation support to supplement education and compliance of the ordinance.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
27 of 662

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
This Ordinance is exempt from the environmental review requirements of CEQA pursuant to, section 15061(b)(3), of Title 
14 of the California Code of Regulations because it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the 
provisions contained herein may have a significant effect on the environment. Further, the Ordinance is also exempt 
from the requirements of CEQA pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Sections 15307 and 15308 of Title 14 of the California Code 
of Regulations as it is an action taken by a regulatory agency to assure the maintenance, restoration, enhancement of 
natural resources, or protection of the environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. The City will send out a mailer to food facilities following the adoption of the 
amended ordinance. The County will lead engagement and outreach efforts with food facilities this summer in preparation 
for the October 1, 2022 ordinance enforcement date.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
Att 2 – Proposed Ordinance – Track Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
28 of 662

--- page 29 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
AMENDING CHAPTER 5.89, “DISPOSABLE FOOD SERVICE WARE,” OF THE SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE
WHEREAS, an existing ordinance addressing disposable food service ware is codified at Chapter 5.89 of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, on October 5, 2021, AB 1276 was signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom restricting the 
distribution of single-use food ware accessories (e.g., utensils, straws, condiment packets, etc.) at food facilities; 
and
WHEREAS, on October 5, 2021, AB 1200 was also signed into law by the Governor prohibiting the sale or 
distribution of food packaging containing perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS); and
WHEREAS, the County of San Mateo has amended the County ordinance to match the requirements of 
AB 1276 and AB 1200; and
WHEREAS, these changes in state law necessitate amendments to Chapter 5.89, which will be consistent 
with the County ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 5.89.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
5.89.010 Definitions
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a) "Aluminum Foil-based" means any Disposable Food Service Ware composed entirely of aluminum, 
including but not limited to aluminum tray liners, aluminum foil, and aluminum foil baskets.
(b) "City" means City of San Mateo or any entity authorized to perform City duties in a written 
agreement, which includes the County of San Mateo.
(c) “Compostable" means that an item or material: 
(1) Meets standards for compostability from a certified/approved independent third-party 
approved by the County Manager or designee, in collaboration with local waste processors, haulers, 
and/or other entities, as required; and/or
(2) Is any variation of acceptable materials that will break down or otherwise become part of 
usable compost in a safe and timely manner as determined by the County Manager or designee, in 
collaboration with local waste processors, haulers, and/or other entities, as required; and
(3) Is Natural Fiber-based. Compostable items may include those that are made entirely of 
Natural Fiber or Natural Fiber-based items that are coated or lined with biologically based polymer, such 
29 of 662

--- page 30 ---
as, but not limited to corn or other plant sources (e.g., compostable plastics), if certified/approved by 
independent third parties approved by the County Manager or designee.
“Compostable” does not include items made entirely or primarily of biologically based polymer (e.g., 
PLA, PHA, or other compostable plastic), even if labeled or certified as compostable.
(d) "County" means the County of San Mateo.
(e) “Disposable” means designed to be discarded after a single or limited number of uses and not 
designed or manufactured for long-term multiple re-use.
(f) "Food Service Ware" means food contact products used for serving, distributing, holding, packaging, 
and/or transporting Prepared Food including, but not limited to plates, cups, bowls, trays, clamshell containers, 
boxes, utensils, straws, lids, and food contact paper (e.g., wraps, bags, tray liners, etc.). The term "Food Service 
Ware" includes Food Service Ware Accessories and Standard Condiment in Disposable packaging.
(g) "Food Service Ware Accessories" include different types of Food Service Ware such as straws, 
stirrers, Utensils, condiment cups and packets, cocktail sticks/picks, toothpicks, napkins, cup spill plugs, cup 
sleeves, and other similar accessory or accompanying Food Service Ware used as part of food or beverage 
service or packaging. Detachable lids for beverage cups and food containers are not considered a Food Service 
Ware Accessory.
(h) “Food Facility” means an operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise 
provides food to the public for human consumption, as defined by the California Health and Safety Code Section 
113789 or successor. It includes both permanent and temporary food facilities. For purposes of this Chapter, 
public schools are not included in the definition of Food Facility.
(i) "Food Scrap Composting Method" means (1) self-hauling of food scraps to a permitted composting 
facility or a transfer station that accepts food scraps that will be transferred to a permitted composting facility 
for on-site compost processing, (2) food scrap compost collection service provided by a curbside hauler, or (3) 
on-site food scrap composting.
(j) "Healthcare Facilities" mean places that provide healthcare to the public. Healthcare Facilities 
include, but are not limited to hospitals, clinics, outpatient care centers, nursing homes, psychiatric care centers, 
medical offices, hospice homes, mental health and addiction treatment centers, orthopedic and other 
rehabilitation centers, urgent care, or birth centers.
(k) "Natural Fiber/Natural Fiber-based" means a plant or animal-based, nonsynthetic fiber, including but 
not limited to products made from paper, sugarcane, bamboo, wheat stems/stalk, hay, or wood.
(l) "Non-Compostable" means not meeting the definition of Compostable set forth in this Chapter.
(m) “Perfluoroalkyl and Polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS)" means a class of fluorinated organic 
chemicals containing at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.
(n) "Perfluoroalkyl and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) Restrictions” mean either of the following:
30 of 662

--- page 31 ---
(1) PFAS has not been intentionally added to a product or product component.
(2) The presence of PFAS in a product or product component is below 100 parts per million, as 
measured in total organic fluorine.
(o) "Polystyrene-based" means and includes expanded polystyrene, which is a thermoplastic 
petrochemical material utilizing a styrene monomer and processed by any number of techniques including, but 
not limited to fusion of polymer spheres (expandable bead polystyrene), injection molding, form molding, and 
extrusion-blow molding (extruded foam polystyrene). The term "polystyrene" also includes polystyrene that has 
been expanded or blown using a gaseous blowing agent into a solid foam (expanded polystyrene [EPS]) and 
clear or solid polystyrene known as oriented polystyrene.)
(p) "Prepackaged Food" means any properly labeled processed food, prepackaged to prevent any direct 
human contact with the food product upon distribution from the manufacturer and prepared at an approved 
source.
(q) "Prepared Food" means food or beverages that undergo a cooking or food preparation technique on 
the Food Facility's premises for consumption by the public. Cooking or food preparation technique includes, but 
is not limited to, the following: 1) Cooking methods, utilizing the application of heat, such as steaming, 
microwaving, simmering, boiling, broiling, grilling, frying, or roasting; 2) Beverage preparation, such as blending, 
brewing, steeping, juicing, diluting, or pouring; and 3) Food preparation techniques, such as defrosting, rinsing, 
washing, diluting, cutting, portioning, mixing, blending, assembling, coating, dipping, garnishing, decorating, or 
icing. Prepared Food does not include raw eggs or raw, butchered meats, fish, and/or poultry sold from a 
butcher case, a refrigerator case, or similar retail appliance.
(r) “Standard Condiments” means relishes, spices, sauces, confections, or seasonings that require no 
additional preparation and that are usually used on a food item after preparation, and includes different types 
such as ketchup, mustard, mayonnaise, soy sauce, hot sauce, salsa, salt, pepper, and sugar/sugar substitutes.
(s) “Takeout Food” means Prepared Food that is purchased to be consumed off a Food Facility’s 
premises. Takeout Food includes Prepared Food delivered by a Food Facility or by a third-party Takeout Food 
Delivery Service.
(t) “Takeout Food Delivery Service” is a service for online food ordering and delivery of Prepared Food 
from a Food Facility to a customer. This service can be provided directly by the Food Facility or by a third-party.
Section 2. Section 5.89.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
5.89.020 Distribution of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories and Standard Condiments
Except as provided in Subsection (b), Food Facilities, for on-premise dining and off-premise dining (e.g., 
Takeout Food Delivery Service, catering off-site, etc.), shall not provide any Disposable Food Service Ware 
Accessories or Standard Condiments in Disposable packaging to a consumer
(a) unless the specific type of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessory (including different types of 
utensils) or specific type of Standard Condiment is requested by the consumer.
31 of 662

--- page 32 ---
(b) Food Facilities may ask a drive-through consumer if the consumer wants a specific type of Disposable 
Food Service Ware Accessory (including different types of utensils), if the item is necessary for the consumer to 
consume Prepared Food or to prevent spills of or safely transport Prepared Food.
(c) Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories and Standard Condiments in Disposable packaging 
provided by Food Facilities for use by consumers shall not be bundled or packaged in a manner that prohibits a 
consumer from taking only the type of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessory (including different types of 
utensils) or type of Standard Condiment desired without also having to take a different type of Disposable Food 
Service Ware Accessory or type of Standard Condiment. Food Facilities cannot distribute Disposable Utensils 
that are bundled or packaged together. Each type of utensil (e.g., fork, spoon, knife, etc.) must be specifically 
requested by the consumer in order for a Food Facility to provide the item(s).
(d) Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a Food Facility from making unwrapped Disposable Food 
Service Ware Accessories available to a consumer using refillable self-service dispensers that dispense different 
types of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories one item at a time to allow for Disposable Food Service Ware 
Accessories to be obtained.
(e) Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a Food Facility from making Standard Condiments available to a 
consumer using refillable self-service dispensers to allow for Standard Condiments to be obtained. Food 
Facilities that offer Standard Condiments are encouraged to use bulk dispensers for the condiments rather than 
condiments packaged for single-use.
(f) Takeout Food Delivery Services shall provide consumers with the option to proactively request the 
different types of available Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories (including different types of utensils) and 
the different types of Standard Condiments from a Food Facility serving Prepared Food. The default option on 
the digital ordering/point-of-sale platforms of Takeout Food Delivery Services shall be that no Disposable Food 
Service Ware Accessories or Standard Condiments are requested.
(g) Takeout Food Delivery Services shall provide Food Facilities the ability to tailor the digital 
ordering/point-of-sale platforms so that Food Facilities can customize and itemize the different types of 
available Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories (including different types of utensils) and the different types 
of available Standard Condiments for consumers to proactively select.
(h) If a Food Facility uses any Takeout Food Delivery Service, the Food Facility shall customize its menu 
with an itemized list and/or provide options of the different types of available Disposable Food Service Ware 
Accessories (including different types of utensils) and the different types of available Standard Condiments for 
consumers to proactively select. Only those specific types of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories 
(including different types of utensils) or specific types of Standard Condiments proactively requested by the 
consumer shall be provided by the Food Facility. If a consumer does not request any Disposable Food Service 
Ware Accessories or Standard Condiment, no Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories or Standard Condiment 
shall be provided by the Food Facility for delivery of Prepared Food. Pursuant to Subsection (c), each type of 
utensil (e.g., fork, spoon, knife, etc.) offered by the Food Facility shall also be listed individually, unbundled on 
the menu and provided by the Food Facility for delivery along with the Prepared Food only if requested by the 
consumer.
32 of 662

--- page 33 ---
Section 3. Section 5.89.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
5.89.030 Standards and Required Use of Disposable Food Service Ware
(a) No Food Facility shall use Polystyrene-based Disposable Food Service Ware when providing Prepared 
Food.
(b) Food Facilities shall only provide Disposable straws, stirrers, utensils, and cocktail/toothpicks (and 
the packaging that these individual items are wrapped in, if any) that are Compostable.
(c) Nothing in this Chapter shall conflict or be construed to conflict with the Americans with Disabilities 
Act or any other applicable law concerning the rights of individuals with disabilities. In particular, nothing in this 
Chapter shall restrict, or be construed to restrict, the provision by Food Facilities of Disposable Non-
Compostable straws to individuals who may request the use of Disposable Non-Compostable straws to 
accommodate medical needs or disabilities. Healthcare Facilities may distribute Disposable Non-Compostable 
straws with or without request by a patient at the discretion of the Healthcare Facility staff based on the 
physical or medical needs of the patient.
(d) Food Facilities shall use Compostable items for the below Disposable Food Service Ware when 
providing Prepared Food:
(1) Plates;
(2) Bowls (of all sizes including, but not limited to soup and salad bowls);
(3) Cups (of all sizes including, but not limited to beverage and accessory cups for Standard 
Condiments);
(4) Food trays and food boats;
(5) Boxes; and
(6) Hinged or lidded containers (e.g., clamshells), deli containers, and other containers used for 
the sale and/or distribution of Prepared Food.
(e) Commencing on the effective date of this Chapter up until December 31, 2022, for the Compostable 
Disposable Food Service Ware listed in Subsection (d), Food Facilities shall use items that meet Perfluoroalkyl 
and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) Restrictions. To verify the PFAS Restrictions, Food Facilities shall use items 
that are certifiedor approved by independent third parties approved by the County Manager or designee, in 
collaboration with local waste processors and haulers, as required. 
(f) For all other Disposable Food Service Ware not listed in Subsections (b) and (d), Food Facilities shall 
use only Disposable Food Service Ware that can be composted by the Food Scrap Composting method utilized 
by the Food Facility and/or accepted for recycling by the Food Facility's recycling collection service, unless a 
feasible alternative does not exist. 
33 of 662

--- page 34 ---
(g) The City shall maintain and make publicly available a list of approved Disposable Food Service Ware 
sources and/or references to organizations that maintain regularly updated lists of products that meet the 
requirements detailed in Subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this Section. If a product is not included on the 
approved lists, the Food Facility wishing to use a product as Disposable Food Service Ware shall establish to the 
City's satisfaction that the product complies with the requirements detailed in Subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e).
Section 4. Section 5.89.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
5.89.050 Automatic Exemptions
(a) Prepackaged Food is exempt from the provisions of this Chapter.
(b) Polystyrene coolers and ice chests intended for reuse are exempt from the provisions of this Chapter.
(c) Disposable Food Service Ware that is entirely Aluminum Foil-based is exempt from the provisions of 
this Chapter.
(d) If the City determines that a reasonably feasible Disposable Food Service Ware that complies with 
Section 5.89.030 (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this Chapter does not exist, these items will be exempt from the 
abovementioned provisions of this Chapter until the City determines that a reasonably feasible alternative is 
available on the market for purchase. The City will maintain and make publicly available a current list of 
exempted Disposable Food Service Ware 
(e) Temporary exemptions due to an emergency are automatic without the submission of a request for 
an exemption. An emergency is defined as a sudden, unexpected occurrence posing a clear and imminent 
danger that requires immediate action to prevent or mitigate the loss or impairment of life, health, property, or 
essential public services. Examples of an emergency include, but are not limited to natural disasters, 
emergencies due to the release of hazardous materials, emergencies associated with loss of power and/or 
water, or emergency medical response.
Section 5. Section 5.89.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
5.89.060 Authorization for County Enforcement
In addition to the City's enforcement mechanisms set forth in Title 1 of this Code, the City of San Mateo 
authorizes the County of San Mateo to enforce this Chapter of the Municipal Code, including, without limitation, 
the authority to act on requests for undue hardship exemptions, hold hearings, issue administrative fines, and 
retain collected fines.
Section 6. Environmental Determination. This Ordinance is exempt from the environmental review 
requirements of CEQA pursuant to, section 15061(b)(3), of the California Code of Regulations because it can be 
seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the provisions contained herein may have a significant effect 
on the environment. Further, the Ordinance is also exempt from the requirements of CEQA pursuant to CEQA 
Guidelines Sections 15307 and 15308 of Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations as it is an action taken by a 
regulatory agency to assure the maintenance, restoration, enhancement of natural resources, or protection of 
the environment.
34 of 662

--- page 35 ---
Section 7. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 8. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 9. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
35 of 662

--- page 36 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
CURRENT ORDINANCE
TRACK CHANGES
Chapter 5.89
DISPOSABLE FOOD SERVICE WARE
5.89.010
Definitions 
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a) "Aluminum Foil-based" means any Disposable Food Service Ware composed entirely of 
aluminum, including but not limited to aluminum tray liners, aluminum foil, and aluminum foil baskets.
(b) "Biodegradable Products Institute (BPI)" refers to a certification program that ensures that 
products and packaging displaying the BPI logo have been independently tested and verified accordingly 
to scientifically based standards to successfully break down in professionally managed industrial 
composting facilities. BPI-certified products meet the standards of the American Society for Testing 
Materials (ASTM) D6400 or D6868 for compostability.
(c)(b) "City" means City of San Mateo or any entity authorized to perform City duties in a written 
agreement, which includes the County of San Mateo.
(c) “Compostable" means that an item or material (1): 
1.
Meets standards for compostability from a certified/approved independent third-party 
approved by the CountyCounty Manager or designee, in collaboration with local waste 
processors, haulers, and/or other entities, as neededrequired; and/or
2.
Is any variation of acceptable materials that will break down, or otherwise become part 
of usable compost in a safe and timely manner and (2) isas determined by the 
CountyCounty Manager or designee, in collaboration with local waste processors, 
haulers, and/or other entities, as neededrequired; and
1.3.Is Natural Fiber-based or made from other materials approved by the County Manager 
or designee. Compostable items may include those that are made entirely of Natural 
Fiber or Natural Fiber-based items that are coated or lined with biologically based 
polymer, such as, but not limited to corn or other plant sources (e.g., compostable 
plastics), if certified/approved by BPI or by another independent third partyparties 
approved by the County County Manager or designee. 
“Compostable” does not include items made entirely/ or primarily of biologically based polymer 
(e.g., PLA, PHA, or other compostable plastic), even if labeled or certified as compostable.
(d) "County" means the County of San Mateo.
36 of 662

--- page 37 ---
(e) “Disposable” means designed to be discarded after a single or limited number of uses and not 
designed or manufactured for long-term multiple re-use.
(f) "Food Service Ware" means food contact products used for serving, distributing, holding, 
packaging, and/or transporting Prepared Food including, but not limited to plates, cups, bowls, 
trays, clamshell containers, boxes, utensils, straws, lids, and food contact paper (e.g., wraps, 
bags, tray liners, etc.). The term "Food Service Ware" includes Food Service Ware Accessories. 
and Standard Condiment in Disposable packaging. 
(g) "Food Service Ware Accessories" include different types of Food Service Ware such as straws, 
stirrers, cup spill plugs, cup sleevesUtensils, condiment cups and packets, utensils (including 
chopsticks), cocktail sticks/picks, toothpicks, napkins, cup spill plugs, cup sleeves, and other 
similar accessory or accompanying Food Service Ware used as part of food or beverage service 
or packaging. Detachable lids for beverage cups and food containers are not considered a Food 
Service Ware Accessory.
(h) "Fluorinated Chemicals" means perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS chemicals) 
or fluorinated chemicals, which are a class of fluorinated organic chemicals containing at least 
one fully fluorinated carbon atom.
(i)(h)
“Food Facility"” means an operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or 
otherwise provides food to the public for human consumption, as defined by the California 
Health and Safety Code Section 113789 or successor. It includes both permanent and 
temporary food facilities. For purposes of this Chapter, public schools are not included in the 
definition of Food Facility.
(j)(i)
"Food Scrap Composting Method" means (1) self-hauling of food scraps to a permitted 
composting facility or a transfer station that accepts food scraps that will be transferred to a 
permitted composting facility for on-site compost processing, (2) food scrap compost collection 
service provided by a curbside hauler, or (3) on-site food scrap composting.
(k)(j)
"Healthcare Facilities" mean places that provide healthcare to the public. Healthcare 
Facilities include, but are not limited to hospitals, clinics, outpatient care centers, nursing 
homes, psychiatric care centers, medical offices, hospice homes, mental health and addiction 
treatment centers, orthopedic and other rehabilitation centers, urgent care, or birth centers.
(l)(k)
"Natural Fiber/Natural Fiber-based" means a plant or animal-based, nonsynthetic fiber, 
including but not limited to products made from paper, sugarcane, bamboo, wheat stems/stalk, 
hay, or wood.
(m)(l)
"Non-Compostable" means not meeting the definition of Compostable set forth in this 
Chapter.
(m) “Perfluoroalkyl and Polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS)" means a class of fluorinated organic 
chemicals containing at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom.
(n) "Perfluoroalkyl and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) Restrictions” mean either of the following:
1.
PFAS has not been intentionally added to a product or product component.
2.
The presence of PFAS in a product or product component is below 100 parts per 
million, as measured in total organic fluorine.
(n)(o)
"Polystyrene-based" means and includes expanded polystyrene, which is a 
thermoplastic petrochemical material utilizing a styrene monomer and processed by any 
37 of 662

--- page 38 ---
number of techniques including, but not limited to fusion of polymer spheres (expandable bead 
polystyrene), injection molding, form molding, and extrusion-blow molding (extruded foam 
polystyrene). The term "polystyrene" also includes polystyrene that has been expanded or 
blown using a gaseous blowing agent into a solid foam (expanded polystyrene [EPS]) and clear 
or solid polystyrene known as oriented polystyrene.)
(o)(p)
"Prepackaged Food" means any properly labeled processed food, prepackaged to 
prevent any direct human contact with the food product upon distribution from the 
manufacturer and prepared at an approved source.
(p)(q)
"Prepared Food" means food or beverages that undergo a cooking or food preparation 
technique on the Food Facility's premises for consumption by the public. Cooking or food 
preparation technique includes, but is not limited to, the following: 1) Cooking methods, 
utilizing the application of heat, such as steaming, microwaving, simmering, boiling, broiling, 
grilling, frying, or roasting; 2) Beverage preparation, such as blending, brewing, steeping, 
juicing, diluting, or pouring; and 3) Food preparation techniques, such as defrosting, rinsing, 
washing, diluting, cutting, portioning, mixing, blending, assembling, coating, dipping, 
garnishing, decorating, or icing. Prepared Food does not include raw eggs or raw, butchered 
meats, fish, and/or poultry sold from a butcher case, a refrigerator case, or similar retail 
appliance.
(r) “Standard Condiments” means relishes, spices, sauces, confections, or seasonings that require 
no additional preparation and that are usually used on a food item after preparation, and 
includes different types such as ketchup, mustard, mayonnaise, soy sauce, hot sauce, salsa, salt, 
pepper, and sugar/sugar substitutes.
(q)(s)
“Takeout Food” means Prepared Food requiring no further preparation, whichthat is 
purchased to be consumed off a Prepared Food Facility'sFacility’s premises. Takeout Food 
includes Prepared Food delivered by a Food Facility or by a third-party Takeout Food Delivery 
Service.
(r)(t)
“Takeout Food Delivery Service” is a service that delivers Takeout Food for online food 
ordering and delivery of Prepared Food from a Food Facility to a customer for consumption off 
the premises.. This service can be provided directly by the Food Facility or by a third-party.
5.89.020
Distribution of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories and Standard Condiments
(a) NoExcept as provided in Subsection (b), Food FacilityFacilities, for on-premise dining and 
off-premise dining (e.g., Takeout Food Delivery Service, catering off-site, etc.), shall not 
provide any Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories except:
(1) upon request by the or Standard Condiments in Disposable packaging to a consumer,
(a) upon acceptance unless the specific type of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessory (including 
different types of utensils) or specific type of Standard Condiment is requested by the consumer 
after being offered by the Food Facility, or.
(2) at a self-serve area and/or a dispenser.
38 of 662

--- page 39 ---
(b) Food Facilities shall only distribute Disposable may ask a drive-through consumer if the 
consumer wants a specific type of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessory (including different 
types of Utensils), if the item is necessary for the consumer to consume Prepared Food or to 
prevent spills of or safely transport Prepared Food.
(b)(c)
Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories unbundled, as separate individual units.and 
Standard Condiments in Disposable packaging provided by Food Facilities for use by consumers 
shall not be bundled or packaged in a manner that prohibits a consumer from taking only the 
type of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessory (including different types of utensils) or type of 
Standard Condiment desired without also having to take a different type of Disposable Food 
Service Ware Accessory or type of Standard Condiment. Food Facilities cannot distribute 
Disposable Utensils that are bundled or packaged together. Each type of utensil (e.g., fork, 
spoon, knife, etc.) must be specifically requested by the consumer in order for a Food Facility to 
provide the item(s).
(d) Takeout Food Delivery Services that utilize digital ordering/point of sale platforms, including but 
not limited to the internet and smart-phone,Nothing in this Chapter shall only offer prohibit a 
Food Facility from making unwrapped Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories by providing 
clear options for customers to affirmatively request these items separate from orders for food 
and beverages.available to a consumer using refillable self-service dispensers that dispense 
different types of Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories one item at a time to allow for 
Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories to be obtained.
(e) Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a Food Facility from making Standard Condiments available 
to a consumer using refillable self-service dispensers to allow for Standard Condiments to be 
obtained. Food Facilities that offer Standard Condiments are encouraged to use bulk dispensers 
for the condiments rather than condiments packaged for single-use.
(c)(f)
Takeout Food Delivery Services shall provide consumers with the option to proactively 
request the different types of available Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories (including 
different types of utensils) and the different types of Standard Condiments  from a Food Facility 
serving Prepared Food. The default option on the digital ordering/point -of -sale platforms of 
Takeout Food Delivery Services shall be that no Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories are 
requested. Each individual Disposable Food Service Ware Accessory (e.g., each fork, knife, 
condiment packet, napkin, etc.) provided with Prepared Food must be specifically requested by 
the customer in order for a Food Facility to provide itor Standard Condiments are requested.
(g)
Takeout Food Delivery Services shall provide Food Facilities the ability to tailor the 
digital ordering/point-of-sale platforms so that Food Facilities can customize and itemize the 
different types of available Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories (including different types 
of utensils) and the different types of available Standard Condiments for consumers to 
proactively select.
(h) If a Food Facility uses any Takeout Food Delivery Service, the Food Facility shall customize its 
menu with an itemized list and/or provide options of the different types of available Disposable 
Food Service Ware Accessories (including different types of utensils) and the different types of 
available Standard Condiments for consumers to proactively select. Only those specific types of 
Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories (including different types of utensils) or specific types 
of Standard Condiments proactively requested by the consumer shall be provided by the Food 
Facility. If a consumer does not request any Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories or 
Standard Condiment, no Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories or Standard Condiment shall 
39 of 662

--- page 40 ---
be provided by the Food Facility for delivery of Prepared Food. Pursuant to Subsection (c), each 
type of utensil (e.g., fork, spoon, knife, etc.) offered by the Food Facility shall also be listed 
individually, unbundled on the menu and provided by the Food Facility for delivery along with 
the Prepared Food only if requested by the consumer. 
5.89.030 Standards and Required Use of Disposable Food Service Ware
(a) No Food Facility shall use Polystyrene-based Disposable Food Service Ware when providing 
Prepared Food. 
(b) Food Facilities shall only provide Disposable straws, stirrers, utensils, and cocktail/toothpicks 
(and the packaging that these individual items are wrapped in, if any) that are Compostable.
(c) Nothing in this Chapter shall conflict or be construed to conflict with the Americans with 
Disabilities Act or any other applicable law concerning the rights of individuals with disabilities. 
In particular, nothing in this Chapter shall restrict, or be construed to restrict, the provision by 
Food Facilities of Disposable Non-Compostable straws to individuals who may request the use of 
Disposable Non-Compostable straws to accommodate medical needs or disabilities. Healthcare 
Facilities may distribute Disposable Non-Compostable straws with or without request by a 
patient at the discretion of the Healthcare Facility staff based on the physical or medical needs 
of the patient.
(d) Food Facilities shall use Compostable items for the below Disposable Food Service Ware when 
providing Prepared Food:
1.
Plates;
2.
Bowls (of all sizes including, but not limited to soup and salad bowls and accessory 
bowls for condiments);
3.
Cups (of all sizes including, but not limited to beverage and accessory cups for Standard 
Condiments);
4.
Food trays and food boats;
5.
Clamshells, boxes,Boxes; and
5.6.Hinged or lidded containers (e.g., clamshells), deli containers, and other containers used 
for the sale and/or distribution of Prepared Food. (e.g., Takeout Food, leftover "doggie 
containers", etc.)
(e) Commencing on the effective date of this Chapter up until December 31, 2022, for the 
Compostable items for the Disposable Food Service Ware listed in Subsection (d) used by), Food 
Facilities shall use items that meet Perfluoroalkyl and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) 
Restrictions. To verify the PFAS Restrictions, Food Facilities must have been tested to 
breakdown into compost in an industrial composting facility in a timely manner and shall be free 
of all intentionally added Fluorinated Chemicals. To verify, theseshall use items shall bethat are 
certified by Biodegradable Products Institute (BPI) or another /or approved by independent 
third partyparties approved by the County Manager or designee, in collaboration with local 
waste processors and haulers., as requiredneeded. 
(f) For all other Disposable Food Service Ware not listed in Subsections (b) and (d), Food Facilities 
shall use only Disposable Food Service Ware that can be composted by the Food Scrap 
40 of 662

--- page 41 ---
Composting method utilized by the Food Facility and/or accepted for recycling by the Food 
Facility's recycling collection service., unless a feasible alternative does not exist. 
(g) The City shall maintain and make publicly available a list of approved Disposable Food Service 
Ware sources and/or references to organizations that maintain regularly updated lists of 
products that meet the requirements detailed in Subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this Section. 
If a product is not included on the approved lists, the Food Facility wishing to use a product as 
Disposable Food Service Ware shall establish to the City's satisfaction that the product complies 
with the requirements detailed in Subsections (a), (b), (d), and (e).
5.89.040
Recordkeeping and Inspection
(a) Food Facilities shall keep complete and accurate record or documents of the below items:
(1) Commencing on April 1, 2021, the purchase of all Disposable Food Service Ware, 
including Non-Compostable and Compostable items.
(2) The purchase of the acceptable Disposable Food Service Ware evidencing 
compliance with this Chapter for a minimum period of three years from the date of purchase.
(b) The record shall be made available for inspection at no cost to the City during regular 
business hours by City or any other entity authorized to enforce this Chapter. Unless an alternative 
location or method of review is mutually agreed upon, the records or documents shall be made available 
at the Food Facility address.
(c) The provision of false or incomplete information, records, or documents to the City shall be a 
violation of this Chapter.
5.89.050
Automatic Exemptions
(a) Prepackaged Food is exempt from the provisions of this Chapter.
(b) Polystyrene coolers and ice chests intended for reuse are exempt from the provisions of this 
Chapter.
(c) Disposable Food Service Ware that is entirely Aluminum Foil-based is exempt from the 
provisions of this Chapter.
(d) If the City determines that a reasonably feasible Disposable Food Service Ware that complies 
with Section 5.89.030 (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this Chapter does not exist, these items will be 
exempt from the abovementioned provisions of this Chapter until the City determines that a 
reasonably feasible alternative is available on the market for purchase. The City will maintain 
and make publicly available a current list of these exempted Disposable Food Service Ware.
(e) Certain Disposable Food Service Ware Accessories for beverage orders, specifically, straws and 
cup sleeves, shall be exempt from Section 5.89.020 (a) and may be distributed for safety reasons 
without the need for a request made public by the consumer or an offer by the Food Facility, 
specifically at drive-through areas of Food Facilities. Detachable lids are not considered a 
Disposable Food Service Ware AccessoryOffice of Sustainability. 
41 of 662

--- page 42 ---
(f)(e)
Temporary exemptions due to an emergency are automatic without the submission of a 
request for an exemption. An emergency is defined as a sudden, unexpected occurrence posing 
a clear and imminent danger that requires immediate action to prevent or mitigate the loss or 
impairment of life, health, property, or essential public services. Examples of an emergency 
include, but are not limited to natural disasters, emergencies due to the release of hazardous 
materials, emergencies associated with loss of power and/or water, or emergency medical 
response.
5.89.060
Case-by-Case Consideration of Requests for Hardship Exemption
(a) Grounds for an exemption. An exemption from any of the provisions of this Chapter may be 
granted by the City upon demonstration by a Food Facility to the satisfaction of the City that 
strict application of the requirements would cause undue hardship. An "undue hardship" 
includes, but is not limited to the following:
1.
A situation unique to the Food Facility where a suitable alternative that conforms with 
the requirements detailed in Section 5.89.030 (a), (b), (d), and (e) does not exist for a 
specific application.
2.
Imposing the provisions of this Chapter would cause significant economic hardship. 
"Significant economic hardship" may be based on, but not limited to, demonstrating 
that suitable Disposable Food Service Ware is not available at a commercially 
reasonable price and the additional cost associated with providing the Disposable Food 
Service Ware is particularly burdensome to the Food Facility based on the type of 
operation(s) affected, the overall size of the business/operation, the number, type and 
location of its facilities, the impact on the overall financial resources of the Food Facility, 
and other factors. Reasonable added cost for a suitable item as compared to a similar 
item that the Food Facility can no longer use shall not by itself constitute adequate 
grounds to support an exemption for such item. In determining whether a significant 
economic hardship has been established, the City shall consider the following 
information: ability of the Food Facility to recover the additional expense by increasing 
its prices; the availability of tax credits and deductions; outside funding; and other 
options.
(b) Request for an exemption. A request for an exemption from the requirements of this Chapter 
shall include all information deemed necessary by the City to render a decision, including but 
not limited to documentation showing the factual support for the requested exemption. A 
request for an exemption may be approved by the City, in whole or in part, with or without 
conditions. The duration of the exemption, if granted, shall also be determined by the City.
5.89.070 Authorization for County Enforcement
In addition to the City's enforcement mechanisms set forth in Title 1 of this codeCode, the City 
of San Mateo authorizes the County of San Mateo to enforce this chapter Chapter of the municipal 
Municipal codeCode, including, without limitation, the authority to act on requests for undue hardship 
exemptions, hold hearings, issue administrative fines, and retain collected fines.
42 of 662

--- page 43 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5832
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project – Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to adopt the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture 
Project.
BACKGROUND:
The Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project (Project) is part of the City’s plan to achieve compliance with the San 
Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board’s (RWQCB) Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit’s trash capture 
requirements. The Project will provide approximately 12% of additional trash capture reduction and allow the City to 
remain compliant with the permit requirements. The Project consists of the installation of four full-capture screen devices 
within an existing concrete-lined storm drainage channel adjacent to the Poplar Creek Golf Course. 
On January 18, 2022, WRA, the City’s environmental consultant, completed the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative 
Declaration (IS/MND) documents for the Project. The IS/MND was circulated for public review and comment on January 
25, 2022 for a period of 30 days ending on February 23, 2022.  This was performed in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requirements. No comments were received for the Project during the public comment 
period. 
Given the importance of the Project to meeting the City’s trash capture requirements and that any identified 
environmental impacts associated with the Project can be mitigated to less than significant levels, staff recommends that 
City Council adopt the resolution adopting the IS/MND for the Project.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funds are available in the Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Council adoption of the IS/MND will fulfill the CEQA requirements for this project. The IS/MND is included as 
Attachment 2. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
A Notice of Availability (NOA) of the IS/MND was published in the San Mateo Daily Journal on January 25, 2022. Thirty (30) 
days were given to receive the public’s comments in accordance with CEQA provisions. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
43 of 662

--- page 44 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 2 – Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration
STAFF CONTACT
Stephanie Gindlesperger, Senior Engineer
sgindlesperger@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7315
Elton Yee, Associate Engineer
eyee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7320
44 of 662

--- page 45 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ___(2022)
ADOPTING THE INITIAL STUDY / MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION FOR THE
 POPLAR AT GOLF COURSE TRASH CATPURE PROJECT 
WHEREAS, the Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project (the “Project”) is part of the City’s plan 
to achieve compliance with the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board’s (RWQCB) 
Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit’s trash capture requirements; 
WHEREAS, the City prepared a Initial Study/ Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND) for the Project, 
which was circulated for public review from January 25, 2022 through February 23, 2022 in accordance with 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requirements; 
WHEREAS, the City did not receive any comments on the IS/MND from either the public or 
interested agencies; and 
WHEREAS, in accordance with CEQA, a notice of availability of the IS/MND was published in the San 
Mateo Daily Journal on January 25, 2022, providing at least 30 days for public review.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that:
1.
In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act, an IS/MND was prepared to assess 
the Project’s impacts and circulated for public review from January 25, 2022 through February 23, 
2022. 
 
2.
On the basis of the record before the City Council, there is no substantial evidence that the Project 
may have a significant effect on the environment.
3.
The IS/MND reflects the independent judgment and analysis of the City.
4.
The City Council of the City of San Mateo adopts the IS/MND for the Poplar at Golf Course Trash 
Capture Project and the mitigation measures included therein as the City’s mitigation and 
monitoring program.
5.
The custodian of the documents or other material which constitute the record of the proceeding 
upon which this decision is based is the City Clerk, located at City Hall, 330 West 20th Avenue, 
San Mateo, California.
45 of 662

--- page 46 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
     
 
 
                      January March 2022 
 
1 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Pursuant to Section 21000 et seq. of the Public Resources Code and the City of San Mateo 
Environmental Review Guidelines and Procedures, a Mitigated Negative Declaration is hereby 
granted adopted for the following project: 
1. Project Title:  
 
 
 
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project (Project) 
2. Lead Agency and Project Applicant:  
City of San Mateo 
Public Works Department 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
3. Contact Person and Phone Number:  
Elton Yee 
Tel: (650) 522-7320 
Email: eyee@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
4.  Project Location and APNs: 
 
Immediately north of the intersection of East Poplar 
Avenue and North Bayshore Boulevard and adjacent to 
the Poplar Creek Golf Course within a concrete-lined 
drainage channel in the City of San Mateo, San Mateo 
County, California. 
APN 029-350-20 
5. General Plan Designation:  
 
Parks/Open Space 
6. Zoning: 
 
 
 
 
S-Shoreline 
7. Description of Project: 
The project would involve installation of a full trash 
capture device within Poplar Creek at the location 
immediately north of the intersection of East Poplar 
Avenue and North Bayshore Boulevard and provide 
native vegetation enhancement along Poplar Creek 
within the Poplar Creek Golf Course.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
46 of 662

--- page 47 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
     
 
 
                      January March 2022 
 
2 
FINDING 
The Director of Public Works finds that the project described above will not have a significant effect 
on the environment. Prior to the release of this the draft Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND), the 
project applicant (City of San Mateo) has made/agrees to make project revisions that clearly mitigate 
the potentially significant environmental effects identified in the attached Initial Study to a 
less-than-significant level. 
MITIGATION MEASURES INCLUDED IN THE PROPOSED TO REDUCE POTENTIALLY 
SIGNIFICANT EFFECTS TO A LESS-THAN-SIGNIFICANT LEVEL 
A. AESTHETICS – The project will not have a significant impact on this resource; therefore, no 
mitigation is required.  
B. AGRICULTURE AND FOREST RESOURCES – The project will not have a significant 
impact on this resource; therefore, no mitigation is required. 
C. AIR QUALITY –  
Impact AIR-1: Construction activities could produce fugitive dust fugitive dust (PM10 and 
PM2.5) during ground disturbance, which the Bay Area is currently classified as 
nonattainment. 
Mitigation Measures AIR-1: The Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) 
recommends basic construction measures to ensure minimal impacts on regional air quality. 
The contractor would be responsible for implementing the following basic measures during 
construction:  
• 
All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas) will 
be watered two (2) times per day.  
• 
All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off-site will be covered.  
• 
All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads will be removed using wet 
power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry power sweeping 
is prohibited.  
• 
Idling times will be minimized either by shutting equipment off when not in use or 
reducing the maximum idling time to five (5) minutes (as required by the California 
airborne toxics control measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California Code of 
Regulations).  
• 
Clear signage will be provided for construction workers at all access points.  
• 
All construction equipment will be maintained and properly tuned in accordance with 
manufacturer specifications, and all equipment will be checked by a certified visible 
emissions evaluator.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
47 of 662

--- page 48 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
     
 
 
                      January March 2022 
 
3 
• 
A publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the lead 
agency regarding any dust complaints will be posted in or near the project site. The 
contact person will respond to complaints and take corrective action within 48 hours. 
BAAQMD ‘s phone number will also be visible to ensure compliance with applicable 
regulations. 
D. BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES –  
Impact BIO-1: Construction activities and vegetation removal associated with the project 
could result in the destruction or abandonment of nests of non-status bird species protected 
under the MBTA, CFGC, and CEQA. 
Mitigation Measures BIO-1: To the extent feasible, project-related activities should be 
avoided during the nesting bird season, generally defined as February 1 through August 31. 
If project work must occur during the nesting bird season, pre-construction nesting bird 
surveys must be conducted within 14 days of ground disturbance to avoid disturbance to 
active nests, eggs, and/or young of nesting birds. These surveys would determine the 
presence or absence of active nests that may be affected by project activities. It is also 
recommended that any trees and shrubs in or adjacent to the project site that are proposed 
for removal and that could be used as avian nesting sites be removed during the non-nesting 
season (September 1 through January 31). 
E. CULTURAL RESOURCES –  
Impact CULT-1: Implementation of the project could result in impacts to buried prehistoric 
or historical archaeological deposit. 
Mitigation Measure CULT-1: If previously unidentified historic resources are encountered 
during project implementation, the contractor shall avoid altering the materials and their 
stratigraphic context. A qualified professional archaeologist shall be contacted to evaluate 
the situation. Project personnel should not collect cultural resources. Historic resources 
include stone or abode foundations or walls; structures and remains with square nails; and 
refuse deposits or bottle dumps, often located in old wells or privies. The City or its contractor 
shall comply with California Health and Safety Code Section 7050.5 and California Public 
Resources Code Sections 5097.5, 5097.9 et seq., regarding the discovery and disturbance 
of cultural materials, should any be discovered during project construction. 
Impact CULT-2: Project construction activities could result in impacts to previous 
undiscovered human remains. 
Mitigation Measure CULT-2: If human remains are discovered during excavation and/or 
grading of the site, all activity within a 50-foot radius of the find shall be stopped. The San 
Mateo County Coroner shall be notified and make a determination as to whether the remains 
are of Native American origin or whether an investigation into the cause of death is required. 
If the remains are determined to be Native American, the Coroner will notify the Native 
American Heritage Commission (NAHC) immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the most 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
48 of 662

--- page 49 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
     
 
 
                      January March 2022 
 
4 
likely descendants, the descendants will make recommendations regarding proper burial, 
which will be implemented in accordance with Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines. 
F. ENERGY – The project will not have a significant impact on this resource; therefore, no 
mitigation is required. 
G. GEOLOGY AND SOILS – The project will not have a significant impact on this resource; 
therefore, no mitigation is required. 
H. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS – The project will not have a significant impact on this 
resource; therefore, no mitigation is required. 
I. 
HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS – The project will not have a significant impact 
on this resource; therefore, no mitigation is required. 
J. HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY –  
Impact HYDR-1: Project construction during in-channel work would have the potential to 
impact water quality. 
Mitigation Measure HYDR-1: The City shall incorporate the following practices into the 
construction documents to be implemented by the project contractor: 
• 
During channel dewatering, all water pumped out of the work area would be collected 
in a settling tank and undergo turbidity testing before being discharged back in the 
channel. The settling tank would be up to 10,000 gallons in size depending on the 
results of water flow testing at the time of construction and would be located in the 
designated staging area.  
• 
Equipment fueling and maintenance would occur off-site.  
• 
Fiber rolls would be installed between the staging area and the channel to prevent 
runoff of sediment into the channel. Rolls will be inspected and maintained on a 
weekly basis. 
• 
Hazardous waste spill prevention and stockpiling methods will be implemented 
according to California Stormwater Quality Association (CASQA) best management 
practices. 
K. LAND USE AND PLANNING – The project will not have a significant impact on this resource; 
therefore, no mitigation is required. 
L. MINERAL RESOURCES – The project will not have a significant impact on this resource; 
therefore, no mitigation is required. 
M. NOISE –  
Impact NOI-1: Construction noise could exceed the City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
standard. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
49 of 662

--- page 50 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
     
 
 
                      January March 2022 
 
5 
Mitigation Measure NOI-1: The City shall incorporate the following practices into the 
construction documents to be implemented by the project contractor: 
• 
Construction hours shall be limited to 7:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M., Monday through Friday 
only.  
• 
Notify businesses, residences, and noise-sensitive land uses adjacent to construction 
sites of the construction schedule in writing. Designate the City’s construction 
manager as responsible for responding to any local complaints about construction 
noise. The construction manager shall determine the cause of the noise complaints 
(for example starting too early, or a bad muffler) and institute reasonable measures 
to correct the problem. Conspicuously post a telephone number for the construction 
manager at the construction site. 
• 
Maximize the physical separation between noise generators and noise receptors. 
Such separation includes, but is not limited to, the following measures: 
 
Use heavy-duty mufflers for stationary equipment and barriers around particularly 
noisy areas of the site or around the entire site; 
 
Where feasible, use shields, impervious fences, or other physical sound barriers 
to inhibit transmission of noise to sensitive receptors; 
 
Locate stationary equipment to minimize noise impacts on the community; and 
 
Minimize backing movements of equipment. 
• 
Use quiet construction equipment whenever possible. 
• 
Impact equipment (e.g., jack hammers and pavement breakers) shall be hydraulically 
or electrically powered wherever possible to avoid noise associated with compressed 
air exhaust from pneumatically-powered tools. Compressed air exhaust silencers 
shall be used on other equipment. Other quieter procedures, such as drilling rather 
than using impact equipment, shall be used whenever feasible. 
• 
Prohibit unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines 
N. POPULATION AND HOUSING – The project will not have a significant impact on this 
resource; therefore, no mitigation is required. 
O. PUBLIC SERVICES – The project will not have a significant impact on this resource; 
therefore, no mitigation is required. 
P. RECREATION – The project will not have a significant impact on this resource; therefore, no 
mitigation is required. 
Q. TRANSPORTATION – The project will not have a significant impact on this resource; 
therefore, no mitigation is required. 
R. TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES – Mitigation Measures CULT-1 and CULT-2 of the 
project would allow for appropriate treatment of tribal cultural resources and human remains 
should they be discovered at the site. With implementation of these mitigation measures, the 
City can preserve and protect unknown tribal cultural resources discovered at the site.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
50 of 662

--- page 51 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                                                Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
     
 
 
                      January March 2022 
 
6 
S. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS – The project will not have a significant impact on this 
resource; therefore, no mitigation is required. 
T. WILDFIRE – The project will not be impacted by wildfire or will not exacerbate wildfire 
conditions in the area; therefore, no mitigation is required. 
U. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE – With the implementation of the mitigation 
measures identified above, and the conditions of approval identified in the Initial Study, the 
project would not degrade the quality of the environment, substantially affect the biological 
resources, or eliminate important examples of California history or prehistory. The mitigation 
measures and standard permit conditions would also ensure that the project’s contribution to 
cumulative impacts would not be cumulatively considerable, and the project would not cause 
substantial adverse effects on human beings, either directly or indirectly.  
PUBLIC REVIEW PERIOD 
Before 5:00 p.m. on February 9, 2022, any person may: 
1. Review the Draft MND as an informational document only; or 
2. Submit written comments regarding the information and analysis in the Draft MND. Before 
the MND is adopted, City staff will prepare written responses to any comments, and revise 
the Draft MND, if necessary, to reflect any concerns raised during the public review period. 
All written comments will be included as part of the Final MND. 
 
 
 
 
 
Elton Yee, Associate Engineer 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works 
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
3/11/2022
3/11/2022
3/11/2022
51 of 662

--- page 52 ---
Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
 
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA 
Prepared For: 
City of San Mateo 
Public Works Department 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Contact: Elton Yee 
Prepared By: 
WRA, Inc. 
4225 Hollis Street 
Emeryville, CA 94608 
Contact: Tali Ashurov  
Tali.ashurov@wra-ca.com 
Date: January March 2022 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
52 of 662

--- page 53 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
53 of 662

--- page 54 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                             Final Initial Study/Proposed Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
January March 2022 
TOC-i 
Table of Contents 
List of Acronyms and Abbreviations ..................................................................................... i 
Background ............................................................................................................................. 1 
1. 
Project Title: ............................................................................................................ 1 
2. 
Lead Agency and Project Applicant: ....................................................................... 1 
3. 
Contact Person and Phone Number: ...................................................................... 1 
5.  
Surrounding Land Uses and Setting: ...................................................................... 1 
6. 
Existing System: ...................................................................................................... 5 
7.  
Project Design Alternatives: .................................................................................... 5 
8. 
Project Description: ................................................................................................. 7 
9. 
Other Public Agencies Whose Approval May Be Required: .................................. 10 
Environmental Factors Potentially Affected ...................................................................... 11 
Determination .................................................................................................................... 11 
Initial Study Checklist ........................................................................................................... 12 
I. 
AESTHETICS ........................................................................................................ 13 
II. 
AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY RESOURCES .............................................. 16 
III. 
AIR QUALITY ........................................................................................................ 19 
IV. 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES ................................................................................. 24 
V. 
CULTURAL RESOURCES .................................................................................... 44 
VI. 
ENERGY ............................................................................................................... 49 
VI. 
GEOLOGY AND SOILS ........................................................................................ 55 
VII. 
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ....................................................................... 61 
VIII. 
HAZARDS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ........................................................ 64 
IX. 
HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY ................................................................ 68 
XI. 
LAND USE AND PLANNING ................................................................................ 73 
XII. 
MINERAL RESOURCES ....................................................................................... 78 
XIII. 
NOISE ................................................................................................................... 79 
XIV. POPULATION AND HOUSING ................................................................................. 88 
XV. 
PUBLIC SERVICES .............................................................................................. 89 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
54 of 662

--- page 55 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                              Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
January March 2022 
 
TOC-ii 
XVI. 
RECREATION ....................................................................................................... 91 
XVII. 
TRANSPORTATION ............................................................................................. 92 
XVIII.TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES ......................................................................... 94 
XIX. 
UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS .................................................................. 97 
XX. 
WILDFIRE ........................................................................................................... 100 
XXI. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE ....................................................... 101 
Report Preparation ............................................................................................................. 103 
 
LIST OF FIGURES 
Figure 1. Project Location Map ..................................................................................................... 3 
Figure 2. Aerial of Project Site ...................................................................................................... 4 
Figure 3. Views of the Project Site ................................................................................................ 6 
Figure 4. Stream Enhancement Site 2 Plan .................................................................................. 9 
Figure 5. Biological Communities at Site 1 ................................................................................. 32 
Figure 6. Biological Communities at Stream Enhancement Site 2 ............................................. 33 
Figure 7. Project Impacts ............................................................................................................ 43 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
Table 1. Vegetation Community and Land Cover Types ............................................................ 31 
Table 2. Summary of Tree Removal ........................................................................................... 42 
Table 3. Construction Equipment Noise Generation ................................................................... 82 
Table 4. Contact Log with Kanyon Sayers-Roods ...................................................................... 95 
 
APPENDICES 
Appendix A – Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project Preliminary Location Hydraulic Impact 
Study 
Appendix B – Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Device 75 Percent Plans 
Appendix C – Biological Resources Technical Report
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
55 of 662

--- page 56 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                              Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
January March 2022 
 
i 
 
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
AB 
 
 
Assembly Bill 
ABAG  
 
Association of Bay Area Government 
APE 
 
 
Area of Potential Effect 
APN 
 
 
Assessor’s Parcel Number 
BAAQMD 
 
Bay Area Air Quality Management District 
BTU 
 
 
British thermal unit  
C/CAG  
 
City/County Association of Governments 
CAAQS 
 
ambient air quality standards 
CAFE  
 
Corporate Average Fuel Economy 
CAL FIRE 
 
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection  
Caltrans 
 
California Department of Transportation 
Cal/OSHA 
 
California Division of Occupational Safety and Health 
CALGreen 
 
Title 24 California Green Building Standards 
CAP 
 
 
Clean Air Plan 
CARB  
 
California Air Resources Board 
CASQA 
 
California Stormwater Quality Association 
CBC 
 
 
California Building Code 
CCC 
 
 
central California coast 
CCR 
 
 
California Code of Regulations 
CDFW  
 
California Department of Fish and Wildlife 
CEC 
 
 
California Energy Commission 
CEQA  
 
California Environmental Quality Act  
CESA  
 
California Endangered Species Act 
CFGC  
 
California Fish and Game Code 
CFR 
 
 
Code of Federal Regulations 
CHRIS  
 
California Historical Information System 
City 
 
 
City of San Mateo  
CNEL  
 
Community Noise Equivalent Level 
CNPS  
 
California Native Plant Society 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
56 of 662

--- page 57 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                              Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                       January March 2022 
 
ii 
CO2 
 
 
carbon dioxide 
CO2e  
 
CO2 equivalent 
CPA 
 
 
California Power Authority 
CPUC  
 
California Public Utilities Commission 
CRHR  
 
California Register of Historic Resources 
CWA  
 
Clean Water Act 
CY 
 
 
cubic yards 
dB 
 
 
decibel 
dBA 
 
 
A-weighted sound level 
DBH 
 
 
diameter at breast height 
DOE 
 
 
Department of Energy 
DOT 
 
 
Department of Transportation 
DPM  
 
diesel particulate matter 
DPS 
 
 
Distinct Population Segment 
DTSC  
 
Toxic Substances Control 
EAP 
 
 
Energy Action Plan 
EFH 
 
 
Essential Fish Habitat 
EPA 
 
 
Environmental Protection Agency 
ESA 
 
 
Endangered Species Act 
FEMA  
 
Federal Emergency Management Agency 
FIRM  
 
Federal Insurance Rate Maps 
FMMP  
 
Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program 
GHG  
 
greenhouse gas 
IEPR  
 
Integrated Energy Policy Report 
IPaC  
 
Information for Planning and Consultation 
kWh 
 
 
kilowatt-hour 
lb 
 
 
pound 
Ldn 
 
 
day-night average noise level 
Leq 
 
 
energy-equivalent noise level 
Lmax 
 
 
maximum noise level 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
57 of 662

--- page 58 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                              Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                       January March 2022 
 
iii 
LUST  
 
leaking underground storage tanks 
MBTA  
 
Migratory Bird Treaty Act 
MND  
 
Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Mpg 
 
 
miles per gallon 
MRP  
 
Municipal Regional Stormwater NPDES Permit 
MS4s  
 
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems 
MT 
 
 
metric tons 
NAAQS 
 
National Ambient Air Quality Standard 
NAHC  
 
Native American Heritage Commission 
NCCP  
 
Natural Community Conservation Plan 
NHPA  
 
National Historic Preservation Act 
NMFS  
 
National Marine Fisheries Service 
NPDES  
 
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System 
NPPA  
 
Native Plant Protection Act 
NR 
 
 
National Register 
NWIC  
 
Northwest Information Center 
OHWM 
 
ordinary high water mark 
OSHA  
 
Occupational Safety and Health Act 
PG&E  
 
Pacific Gas & Electric 
PM10 
 
 
particulate matter smaller than 10 microns  
PM2.5 
 
 
particulate matter smaller than 2.5 microns 
ppm 
 
 
parts per million 
PRC 
 
 
Public Resources Code 
Project  
 
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project 
RCRA  
 
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 
ROW  
 
Right-of-way 
RWQCB 
 
Regional Water Quality Control Board 
SB 
 
 
Senate Bill 
SMCWPPP 
 
San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program 
SR 280 
 
State Route 280 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
58 of 662

--- page 59 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                              Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                       January March 2022 
 
iv 
STGA  
 
significant trash generating area 
SWRCB 
 
State Water Resources Control Board 
TOB 
 
 
top of bank 
USC 
 
 
United States Code 
USFWS 
 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
USGS  
 
U.S. Geological Survey 
VdB 
 
 
vibration decibel 
WBWG 
 
Western Bat Working Group 
Williamson Act 
California Land Conservation Act 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
59 of 662

--- page 60 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
     
 
 
 
      January March 2022 
 
1 
 
BACKGROUND 
1. Project Title:  
 
 
 
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project (Project) 
2. Lead Agency and Project Applicant:  City of San Mateo 
Public Works Department 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
3. Contact Person and Phone Number:  Elton Yee 
Tel: (650) 522-7320 
Email: eyee@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
4.  Project Location: 
 
 
Immediately north of the intersection of East Poplar 
Avenue and North Bayshore Boulevard and adjacent to 
the Poplar Creek Golf Course within Poplar Creek in 
the City of San Mateo, San Mateo County, California 
(see Figures 1 and 2) 
5.  Surrounding Land Uses and Setting:  
The proposed project is located at Assessor’s Parcel Number (APN) 029-350-020, north of the 
intersection of East Poplar Avenue and North Bayshore Boulevard and within Poplar Creek on the 
premises of the Poplar Creek Golf Course property at 1700 Coyote Point Drive in San Mateo, San 
Mateo County (Figure 1). The project proposes to install a full trash capture device within Poplar 
Creek (Site 1) and to provide native vegetation enhancement along Poplar Creek (Site 2). Both Sites 
1 and 2 together will collectively be referred to as the project site. The project footprint is on Poplar 
Golf Course land and does not encroach on other properties. 
The proposed project is located within Poplar Creek which is an intermittent and concrete-lined 
channel From Site 1, Poplar Creek continues in a northeasterly direction for approximately 3,000 feet 
past Site 2, at which time the channel becomes unlined and begins to flow in the southeasterly 
direction. This earthen channel conveys flow for approximately 700 feet before discharging into the 
open forebay of the Poplar Pump Station. Flow from the forebay enters the pump station intake and 
is discharged through the earthen flood control levee into San Francisco Bay (Figure 2).  
The project site is bounded to the west and south by the City of San Mateo (City) right-of-way (ROW) 
consisting of East Poplar Avenue and North Bayshore Boulevard. Site 1 is across from residential 
housing on the opposite side of East Poplar Avenue and North Bayshore Boulevard. A Pacific Gas 
& Electric (PG&E) Electrical Substation operates on the southern side of East Poplar Avenue across 
from Site 2. The sites can be accessed from East Poplar Avenue and through existing golf course 
infrastructure. 
The proposed project falls within the Shoreline Park Specific Plan Zone for the City. The zoning 
district designated for the project site is S-Shoreline. The General Plan land use designation for the 
site is Parks/Open Space, and the land use designations in the project vicinity include Parks/Open 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
60 of 662

--- page 61 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
2 
Space to the north and east and Single Family Residential, Medium Density Residential, and Low 
Density Residential to the south and west. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
61 of 662

--- page 62 ---
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\CEQA\Figure 1. Location.mxd
Project Site
View Extent
0
2
1
Miles
Sources: National Geographic, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 8/11/2021
Figure 1. Project Location Map
92
280
101
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project
City of San Mateo  
3 
    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
      January March 2022 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
62 of 662

--- page 63 ---
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\CEQA\Figure 2. Aerial of Project Site.mxd
Sources: San Mateo County 2018 Aerial, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 10/11/2021
Figure 2.
Aerial of Project Site
0
400
200
Feet
E Poplar Ave
N Bayshore Blvd
101
Po
pl
ar C
re
ek
Site 1: Project Area
(0.08 ac./ 3,286 sq.ft.)
Site 2: Stream Enhancement
Area (0.02 ac./ 1,000 sq.ft.)
Site 2: Stream Enhancement Area
Site 1: Project Area
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project          
City of San Mateo  
4 
    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
      January March 2022 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
63 of 662

--- page 64 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
5 
6. Existing System: 
Poplar Creek is a concrete-lined channel that flows intermittently that passes though the City of San 
Mateo. With the exception of the Poplar Creek Golf Course, the surrounding area is composed of 
largely impermeable structures including buildings, maintenance lots, and streets. Mixed woodland 
vegetation is located above top of bank (TOB) along the southeast side of the channel. The northeast 
side of the channel is composed of a ruderal grassland community (Figure 3). 
Poplar Creek is a section of the City’s storm drain system. Currently, there is no device within the 
channel to facilitate the removal of trash or unwanted debris that enters the system before it gets 
discharged into the San Francisco Bay.  
Under Provision C.10 of the City’s Municipal Regional Stormwater National Pollutant Discharge 
Elimination System (NPDES) permit, the City of San Mateo is required to reduce trash loads from 
municipal separate storm sewer systems (MS4s) by 100 percent by July 1, 2025. The trash capture 
device proposed by this project would be used to reduce trash loads from approximately 333 acres 
of San Mateo’s upstream storm drain system, approximately 3.3 acres of the California Department 
of Transportation’s (Caltrans’) significant trash generating area (STGA), and approximately 
15.9 acres of Caltrans right-of-way (ROW).  
7.  Project Design Alternatives: 
Trash Capture Device Placement Considerations 
Two (2) site locations for the proposed trash capture device location were evaluated in the project 
design phase. A Hydraulic Impact Study was conducted to determine which placement would have 
the least detrimental effect to overall stormwater flow throughout the Poplar Creek System 
(Appendix A). Site 1 was chosen as the location for the proposed project by the Board of 
Supervisors.  
Stream Enhancement Considerations 
Three (3) site locations were analyzed as potential stream enhancement locations. Stream 
Enhancement Site 2 was selected as the proposed location due to its proximity to Poplar Creek, City 
ownership, ease of irrigation, and distance from golfer traffic along the Poplar Creek course. Stream 
Enhancement Site 2 also had the largest available area for enhancement when compared to other 
proposed areas.  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
64 of 662

--- page 65 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
6 
Figure 3. Views of the Project Site 
 
 
Southeast side of channel with mixed oak woodland. 
Northeast side of channel with ruderal upland 
community. 
 
 
Polar Creek facing southwest where trash capture 
device will be installed. 
Stream Enhancement Area along Poplar Creek. 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
65 of 662

--- page 66 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
7 
8. Project Description: 
Trash Capture Device Installation and Operation 
The proposed project would install a trash capture device composed of four (4) Roscoe Moss Storm 
Flo® Trash Screen Linear Radial Gross Solids Removal Devices, which constitutes a Full Capture 
System device that is approved by the State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB). Each of the 
four (4) screens would be made of stainless steel and would be approximately 18 inches in diameter 
and 25 feet long. The four (4) screens would be prefabricated and would be installed at two-foot 
intervals along a three-foot high by one-foot-wide concrete weir wall and would be secured with 
stainless steel anchor plates. 
Prior to construction, two (2) temporary cofferdams would be installed within the channel. Each of 
the cofferdams would be constructed using gravel bags or similar material and would be 
approximately 10 feet wide and 3.5 feet tall. A temporary 18-inch diameter pipe would be used to 
bypass the creeks flows while the cofferdams are in place. An existing approximately 10-foot by 
30-foot section of the concrete-lined channel would then be removed through saw-cutting and 
demolished by an excavator stationed outside/above the creek. A reinforced concrete weir would be 
formed and poured along with the sides and bottom of the channel reconstructed. The trash capture 
screen will be secured to the new concrete weir. Wooden forms would be used to reconstruct both 
the new concrete weir and the replacement of the channel sides and bottom. The concrete would be 
allowed to set for at least three days before the wooden forms would be removed. A visual depiction 
of the design details can be viewed in the Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Device 75 percent 
project plans (Appendix B). 
Once installed, each screen would capture solids as water passes through. The trash capture device 
would be visually inspected monthly during the rainy season (October 15 – April 15). Trash would 
be removed two (2) to three (3) times per year including at the beginning of the rainy season and 
whenever trash fills more than 50 percent of the device. Trash removal would involve a maintenance 
staff person to open the hatches on top of each of the four (4) trash capture devices, followed by 
one (1) to two (2) maintenance staff members to guide a vacuum truck nozzle to the hatch opening. 
The vacuum truck would be located in the permanent staging area created by the proposed project 
on the channel’s northwestern bank. Hand equipment (e.g., rakes ad shovels) would be used, if 
needed, to remove debris stuck in the trash capture device screens. 
Vegetation Removal 
The proposed project would remove approximately 1,064 square feet (0.02 acre) of ruderal 
grassland vegetation on the northwest side of the creek to construct the staging area. Vegetation in 
this area is dominated by fennel (Foeniculum vulgare), ripgut brome (Bromus diandrus), and other 
non-native grasses. All vegetation removed to create this staging area would occur above TOB. 
The project would also remove one (1) invasive non-native shrub located immediately adjacent to 
the concrete-lined channel and would require trimming up to three trees in the mixed woodland 
adjacent to Poplar Creek along E. Poplar Avenue. The project would require the removal of 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
66 of 662

--- page 67 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
8 
one (1) shrub and two (2) trees and trimming of a third tree. The shrub proposed for removal is an 
invasive, non-native Scotch broom (Cytisus scoparius) located immediately adjacent to the 
concrete-lined channel. The trees to be removed include a native coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia) 
and a dead tree of unknown species. The tree to be trimmed by the project is a black acacia (Acacia 
melanoxylon). 
Stream Enhancement 
During pre-application consultation with the San Francisco Regional Water Quality Control Board 
(RWQCB), the need to offset project impacts to the Poplar Creek was identified. Stream 
Enhancement Site 2 has been proposed by the City as a stream enhancement area along the 
southeastern edge of Poplar Creek where native, pollinator-friendly species would be planted above 
TOB. The site would include approximately 1,000 square feet (0.02 acre) of stream enhancements 
located approximately 0.03 mile downstream of Site 1 (Figure 4).  Temporary irrigation would be 
installed, and a monitoring program would be instituted to ensure that the plantings establish.  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
67 of 662

--- page 68 ---
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\CEQA\Figure 5. Stream Enhancement Area Plan.mxd
Site 2: Stream Enhancement
Area (0.02 ac./ 1,000 sq.ft.)
Sources: Google Earth May 2018 Aerial, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 10/11/2021
Figure 4.
Stream Enhancement Site 2 Plan
0
50
25
Feet
Poplar Cree
k
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project 
City of San Mateo  
9 
    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
      January March 2022 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
68 of 662

--- page 69 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
10 
Staging and Access 
Installation of the trash capture devices would not require road closures. Equipment would be staged 
in an approximately 1,000 square-foot area north of the channel. Existing ruderal grassland 
vegetation would be removed from the staging area and the area would be graded to form an earthen 
pad or an asphalt or concrete parking pad to allow for continued access to the trash capture device 
for maintenance. In addition, the proposed project would need to trim up to three overhanging trees 
south of the creek to install the trash capture device. 
Construction 
Construction would occur over an approximately three-month (approximately 64 working days) 
duration beginning in April 2022 through June 2022. No weekend or nighttime work would occur. 
Construction would occur between 7:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M., Monday through Friday. No road closures 
would occur. 
Construction equipment would include an excavator, skidsteer, pickup trucks, 10-wheel dump truck, 
and telehandler. The excavator or skidsteer would need to operate within the channel to remove the 
existing concrete-lined section to be replaced by the proposed project. All other equipment 
operations would be conducted from outside/above the creek. No heavy machinery would be 
required for the stream enhancement work.  
Grading 
The installation of the four (4) Roscoe Moss Storm Flo® screens and associated concrete weir wall 
would add approximately 9.8 cubic yards (CY), or approximately 180 square feet, of fill to the 
channel. Approximately 30 CY of fill would be removed from the staging area.  
9. Other Public Agencies Whose Approval May Be Required: 
The information contained in this Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration will be used by the City 
of San Mateo (the California Environmental Quality Act [CEQA] Lead Agency) as it considers 
whether or not to approve the proposed project. If the project is approved, the Initial Study, as well 
as the associated Mitigated Negative Declaration (MND) would be used by the City and responsible 
and trustee agencies in conjunction with various approvals and permits. These actions include, but 
may not be limited to, the following approvals by the agencies indicated:  
• 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  
o Nationwide Permit 18 
• 
California Department of Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) 
o Fish and Game Code Section 1602, Lake or Streambed Alteration Agreement  
• 
RWQCB 
o Clean Water Act, Section 401 Water Quality Certification  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
69 of 662

--- page 70 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
11 
ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS POTENTIALLY AFFECTED 
The environmental factors checked below would be potentially affected by this project, involving at 
least one (1) impact that is potentially significant unless mitigation is incorporated, as indicated by 
the checklist on the following pages. 
☐ Aesthetics 
☐ Greenhouse Gas 
☐ 
Public Services 
☐ Agricultural Resources 
☐ Hazards/Hazardous 
☐ 
Recreation 
☒ Air Quality 
☒ Hydrology/Water 
☐ 
Transportation 
☒ Biological Resources 
☐ Land Use/Planning 
☒ 
Tribal Cultural Resources 
☒ Cultural Resources 
☐ Mineral Resources 
☐ 
Utilities and Service Systems 
☐ Energy 
☒ Noise 
☐ 
Wildfire 
☐ Geology/Soils 
☐ Population/Housing 
☒ 
Mandatory Findings of Significance 
Determination 
On the basis of this initial evaluation: 
 
I find that the project COULD NOT have a significant effect on the environment and a NEGATIVE 
DECLARATION will be prepared. 
 
I find that although the project could have a significant effect on the environment, there will not be 
a significant effect in this case because revisions in the project have been made by or agreed to by 
the project proponent. A MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION will be prepared. 
 
I find that the project MAY have a significant effect on the environment, and an ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT REPORT is required. 
 
I find that the project MAY have a “Potentially significant impact” or “potentially significant unless 
mitigated” impact on the environment, but at least one effect 1) has been adequately analyzed in 
an earlier document pursuant to applicable legal standards, and 2) has been addressed by 
mitigation measures based on the earlier analysis as described on attached sheets. An 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT REPORT is required, but it must analyze only the effects that remain 
to be addressed. 
 
I find that although the project could have a significant effect on the environment, because all 
potentially significant effects (a) have been analyzed adequately in an earlier EIR or NEGATIVE 
DECLARATION pursuant to applicable standards, and (b) have been avoided or mitigated pursuant 
to that earlier EIR or NEGATIVE DECLARATION, including revisions or mitigation measures that 
are imposed upon the proposed project, nothing further is required. 
 
Signature:  
 
 Date: 
 
Name/Title: Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works, City of San Mateo Public Works Department 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
70 of 662

--- page 71 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
12 
INITIAL STUDY CHECKLIST 
This section describes the existing environmental conditions in and near the project site and 
evaluates environmental impacts associated with the proposed project. The environmental checklist, 
as recommended in the CEQA Guidelines (Appendix G), was used to identify environmental impacts 
that could occur if the proposed project is implemented. The right-hand column in the checklist lists 
the source(s) for the answer to each question. The cited sources are identified at the end of this 
section. 
Each of the environmental categories was fully evaluated, and one (1) of the following 
four (4) determinations was made for each checklist question: 
 
“No Impact” indicates that no impacts to the resource would occur as a result of 
implementing the project.  
 
“Less than Significant Impact” indicates that implementation of the project would not result 
in a substantial and/or adverse change to the resource, and no mitigation measures are 
required.  
 
“Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated” indicates that the 
incorporation of one (1) or more mitigation measures is necessary to reduce the impact from 
potentially significant to less than significant.  
 
“Potentially Significant Impact” indicates that there is either substantial evidence that a 
project-related effect may be significant, or due to a lack of existing information, could have 
the potential to be significant. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
71 of 662

--- page 72 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
13 
I. 
AESTHETICS — Except as provided in Public 
Resources Code Section 21099, would the 
project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
No Impact 
a) 
Have a substantial adverse effect on a scenic 
vista? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Substantially 
damage 
scenic 
resources, 
including, but not limited to, trees, rock 
outcroppings, and historic buildings within a state 
scenic highway? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
In non-urbanized areas, substantially degrade the 
existing visual character or quality of public views 
of the site and its surroundings? (Public views are 
those that are experienced from publicly 
accessible vantage points). If the project is in an 
urbanized area, would the project conflict with 
applicable 
zoning 
and 
other 
regulations 
governing scenic quality? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Create a new source of substantial light or glare 
which would adversely affect day or nighttime 
views in the area? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
Aesthetic resources are often referred to as visual resources because these resources are often 
plainly visible to the general public. Certain high-quality visual resources are protected such as those 
in parklands, ridgelines, scenic vistas, and scenic highways. A Scenic Vista is typically defined as a 
broad panoramic overview of a landscape, often from an elevated perspective, that can be viewed 
by the public.1 Highways or roadways are listed by Caltrans or by local jurisdictions and counties as 
state or county Scenic Highways.2 Visual character or quality is the arrangement of all visual features 
(i.e., anything visible, such as trees, hills, houses, sky, water, towers, roads, power lines, etc.) in a 
 
1 
California 
Department 
of 
Transportation, 
Landscape 
Architecture 
and 
Community 
Livability, 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/design/lap-landscape-architecture-and-community-livability. accessed January 2, 2020. 
2 
California 
Department 
of 
Transportation, 
Scenic 
Highways 
– 
Frequently 
Asked 
Questions, 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/design/lap-landscape-architecture-and-community-livability/lap-liv-i-scenic-highways/lap-liv-i-
scenic-highways-faq2.accessed January 2, 2020.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
72 of 662

--- page 73 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
14 
view.3 The arrangement of visible features on the ground produces the visual character of a site and 
its surroundings.  
There are three state designated scenic highways within San Mateo County, however, none of the 
designated scenic highways are within close proximity to the project site. The closest officially 
designated state scenic highway is State Route 280 (SR 280) which is approximately 3.45 miles 
west of the project site.4 The portion of North Bayshore Boulevard that is adjacent to the project site 
is designated by the City as a scenic roadway by the City’s General Plan.5 This road is considered 
scenic due to the views of Poplar Creek Golf Course and further views of the San Francisco Bay 
that it offers.  
The project site is fully within the Poplar Creek Golf Course, a City-owned and operated course. The 
golf course is bordered to the north by additional open space and to the east by the San Francisco 
Bay. North Bayshore Boulevard is along the western border of the project site which separates the 
golf course from residential neighborhoods to the west. Site 1, which lies mostly within Poplar Creek, 
is visible from maintenance buildings on the golf course, East Poplar Avenue and Bayshore 
Boulevard. Stream Enhancement Site 2, which consists of golf course turf along the edge of Poplar 
Creek, is visible only from the golf course. Existing sources of glare are mainly limited to automobile 
windshields and reflective building materials associated with residential and commercial uses. 
Regulatory Setting 
State  
Streets and Highway Code Sections 260 through 263 
The California Scenic Highway Program (Streets and Highway Code, Sections 260 through 263) is 
managed by Caltrans. The program is intended to protect and enhance the natural scenic beauty of 
California highways and adjacent corridors through special conservation treatment. 
Local 
The following General Plan policy pertaining to aesthetic resources is relevant to this project.  
C/OS-2.2: Aesthetic and Habitat Values – Private Creeks. Preserve and enhance the aesthetic and 
habitat values of privately owned sections of all other creeks and channels, shown in Figure C/OS-2, 
whenever cost effective or whenever these values outweigh economic considerations. 
 
3 U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, “Guidelines for the Visual Impact Assessment of 
Highway Projects,” January 2015, 
https://www.environment.fhwa.dot.gov/env_topics/other_topics/VIA_Guidelines_for_Highway_Projects.aspx#chap54. 
4 Caltrans, California State Scenic Highway System Map, 
https://caltrans.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=465dfd3d807c46cc8e8057116f1aacaa, accessed 
July 28, 2021. 
5 City of San Mateo, 2030 General Plan – Conservation and Open Space Element, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/7165/COS-PR-Element-?bidId=, accessed August 6, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
73 of 662

--- page 74 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
15 
Discussion of Impacts 
a)  
Less than Significant Impact. The scenic view from North Bayshore Boulevard, which is 
directly adjacent to Site 1, would be temporarily impacted by proposed project activities 
through the presence of heavy machinery and construction equipment that could detract from 
the visual setting. There would be no impact on the scenic view from Bayshore Boulevard 
during project operation as the trash capture device would be within Poplar Creek and would 
not be visible from the roadway. While views of the Bay would not be obstructed by project 
activities, the addition of construction equipment adjacent to the project site might temporarily 
detract from the scenic view from North Bayshore Boulevard. This stretch of North Bayshore 
Boulevard is designated a scenic roadway by the City’s General Plan. Construction activities 
would only last for approximately two (2) months. Since the view from the scenic roadway 
would only be temporarily affected by construction equipment, the impact would be less than 
significant. 
b)  
No Impact. One (1) invasive shrub that is located immediately adjacent to the concrete-lined 
channel would be removed and up to three (3) trees in the mixed woodland adjacent to the 
creek would require trimming in order to install the trash capture device. Multiple native plants 
would be installed in the stream enhancement area at Stream Enhancement Site 2. The 
project is not visible from a state scenic highway and thus would have no impacts on a state 
scenic highway.  
c) 
Less than Significant Impact. The project site is located in an urbanized area surrounded 
by parks/open space and residential land uses. During construction, temporary impacts 
would occur to the existing visual quality of the surrounding areas at the golf course. The 
presence of construction equipment in the staging area could be seen as a detriment to the 
aesthetic value of the project site. However, these disturbances would be brief. The 
placement of the trash capture device into Poplar Creek could be seen as a detraction from 
the visual character of the creek itself. Poplar Creek is listed as a private creek according to 
the City’s General Plan and as such, Policy C/OS-2.2 stated above would apply. The addition 
of new native vegetation at the stream enhancement site would enhance the aesthetic and 
habitat value of the project site in the long term and therefore offset any potential negative 
impacts to aesthetic value caused by the trash capture device installation. Impacts would 
remain less than significant. 
d) 
No Impact. Construction of the proposed project would not create any new light sources or 
sources of glare. The trash capture device nor the stream enhancement area would have 
lighting. There would be no impact.  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
74 of 662

--- page 75 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
16 
II. 
AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY 
RESOURCES — (Farmland Mapping and 
Monitoring 
Program 
Website) 
In 
determining whether impacts to agricultural 
resources are significant environmental 
effects, lead agencies may refer to the 
California Agricultural Land Evaluation and 
Site Assessment Model (1997) prepared by 
the California Dept. of Conservation as an 
optional model to use in assessing impacts 
on agriculture and farmland. In determining 
whether impacts to forest resources, 
including 
timberland, 
are 
significant 
environmental effects, lead agencies may 
refer to information compiled by the 
California Department of Forestry and Fire 
Protection regarding the state’s inventory 
of forest land, including the Forest and 
Range Assessment Project and the Forest 
Legacy Assessment project; and forest 
carbon 
measurement 
methodology 
provided in Forest Protocols adopted by the 
California Air Resources Board. Would the 
project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
No Impact 
a) 
Convert 
Prime 
Farmland, 
Unique 
Farmland, or Farmland of Statewide 
Importance (Farmland), as shown on the 
maps prepared pursuant to the Farmland 
Mapping and Monitoring Program of the 
California Resources Agency, to non-
agricultural use? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Conflict with existing zoning for agricultural 
use, or a Williamson Act contract?  
 
 
 
 
c) 
Conflict with existing zoning for, or cause 
rezoning of, forest land (as defined in 
Public Resources Code section 12220(g)), 
timberland 
(as 
defined 
by 
Public 
Resources 
Code 
section 
4526), 
or 
timberland zoned Timberland Production 
(as defined by Government Code section 
51104(g))? 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
75 of 662

--- page 76 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
17 
d) 
Result in the loss of forest land or 
conversion of forest land to non-forest use? 
 
 
 
 
e) 
Involve other changes in the existing 
environment, which, due to their location or 
nature, could result in conversion of 
Farmland, to non-agricultural use or 
conversion of forest land to non-forest 
use?? 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory Setting 
Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program 
The California Department of Conservation’s Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program (FMMP) 
assesses the location, quality, and quantity of agricultural land and conversion of these lands over 
time. Agricultural land is rated according to soil quality and irrigation status. The best quality land is 
called Prime Farmland. In CEQA analyses, the FMMP classifications and published county maps 
are used, in part, to identify whether agricultural resources that could be affected are present on-site 
or in the project site.6 
California Land Conservation Act 
The California Land Conservation Act (Williamson Act) enables local governments to enter into 
contracts with private landowners to restrict parcels of land to agricultural or related open space 
uses. In return, landowners receive lower property tax assessments. In CEQA analyses, 
identification of properties that are under a Williamson Act contract is used to also identify sites that 
may contain agricultural resources or are zoned for agricultural uses.7 
Fire and Resource Assessment Program 
The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CAL FIRE) identifies forest land, 
timberland, and lands zoned for timberland production that can (or do) support forestry resources.8 
Programs such as CAL FIRE’s Fire and Resource Assessment Program and are used to identify 
 
6 California Department of Conservation. “Farmland Mapping and Monitoring Program.” Accessed July 28, 2021. 
http://www.conservation.ca.gov/dlrp/fmmp/Pages/Index.aspx. 
7 California Department of Conservation. “Williamson Act.” http://www.conservation.ca.gov/dlrp/lca. 
8 Forest Land is land that can support 10 percent native tree cover and allows for management of forest resources 
(California Public Resources Code Section 12220(g)); Timberland is land not owned by the federal government or 
designated as experimental forest land that is available for, and capable of, growing trees to produce lumber and other 
products, including Christmas trees (California Public Resources Code Section 4526); and Timberland Production is land 
used for growing and harvesting timber and compatible uses (Government Code Section 51104(g)). 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
76 of 662

--- page 77 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
18 
whether forest land, timberland, or timberland production areas that could be affected are located 
on or adjacent to a project site.9 
Environmental Setting 
The project site does not contain any farmland or forestry land and is not designated for agricultural 
or forestry uses or Prime, Statewide, or Locally Important Farmland.10 The project site is designated 
as Urban and Built-Up Land.11 The proposed project is located within a concrete-lined, intermittent 
creek on a City-owned and operated golf course. Surrounding land is developed with residential, 
open space, and light industrial uses.  
Discussion of Impacts 
a-e) 
No Impact. There are no agricultural or forestry resources within the project site. There are 
no Prime, Unique, Statewide or Locally Important farmlands in the area. The project site is 
not under a Williamson Act Contract, nor is the project zoned as forest land or timber 
production. Project work would be confined to the staging area above the creek, the creek 
itself, and the stream enhancement area. All these areas are City owned properties that are 
not used for agricultural purposes. No impacts to agricultural or forestry resources would 
occur.  
 
 
 
9 California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. “Fire and Resource Assessment Program.” Accessed July 28, 
2021. http://frap.fire.ca.gov/. 
10 
California 
Department 
of 
Conservation. 
San 
Mateo 
County 
– 
Important 
Farmland 
2014. 
https://planning.smcgov.org/sites/planning.smcgov.org/files/documents/files/smt14.pdf, accessed July 27, 2021.  
11 
California 
Department 
of 
Conservation, 
California 
Important 
Farmland 
Finder, 
https://maps.conservation.ca.gov/DLRP/CIFF/, accessed August 12, 2021.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
77 of 662

--- page 78 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
19 
III. 
AIR QUALITY — Where available, the significance 
criteria established by the applicable air quality 
management district or air pollution control district 
may be relied upon to make the following 
determinations. Would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
No 
Impact 
a) 
Conflict with or obstruct implementation of the 
applicable air quality plan? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of 
any criteria pollutant for which the project region is in 
non-attainment under an applicable federal or state 
ambient air quality standard? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Expose sensitive receptors to substantial pollutant 
concentrations? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Result in other emissions (such as those leading to 
odors) affecting a substantial number of people? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
The project site is in the San Francisco Bay Area air basin, where air quality is monitored and 
regulated by the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD). Ambient concentrations of 
key air pollutants have decreased considerably over the course of the last several decades. Air 
pollution is generated by anything that burns fuel (including but not limited to cars and trucks, 
construction equipment, backup generators, boilers and hot water heaters, barbeques and broilers, 
gas-fired cooking ranges and ovens, fireplaces, and wood-burning stoves), almost any evaporative 
emissions (including the evaporation of gasoline from service stations and vehicles, emissions from 
food as it is cooked, emissions from paints, cleaning solvents, and adhesives, etc.), and other 
processes (fugitive dust generated from roadways and construction activities, etc.).  
A sensitive receptor is generally defined as a location where human populations, especially children, 
seniors, and sick persons, are located where there is a reasonable expectation of continuous human 
exposure to air pollutants. These typically include residences, hospitals, and schools. The site is 
surrounded by residential, commercial, and light industrial land uses, with no sensitive receptors 
near the project site. The primary sensitive receptors in the vicinity are residents in the homes along 
the southeastern edge of East Poplar Avenue and the southwestern edge of US-101, parallel to 
North Bayshore Boulevard, which may include children, elderly people, or people with respiratory 
illnesses. The receptors are located approximately 290 feet and 380 feet from Site 1, respectively. 
Regulatory Setting 
The Bay Area is currently classified as “attainment” or “unclassifiable” with respect to every National 
Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) except ozone and fine particulate matter smaller than 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
78 of 662

--- page 79 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
20 
2.5 microns (PM2.5), for which it is still classified as “nonattainment.”12 Ozone concentrations in the 
Bay Area have also decreased considerably over the last several decades, but NAAQS are required 
to be set to be protective of public health “allowing an adequate margin of safety” and have also 
become more stringent. Prior to 2008, attaining the ozone NAAQS required that the “design value” 
--i.e., the peak 8-hour average concentration on the 4th-worst day of the year (averaged over three 
consecutive years) --be below 0.08 parts per million (ppm); the Bay Area was classified as “marginal” 
nonattainment with respect to that standard.13 In 2008, the ozone NAAQS was revised to 0.075 ppm. 
Therefore, while U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has not yet finalized its attainment 
designations for the 2008 ozone standard, it is proposing to designate the Bay Area as “marginal 
nonattainment” (0.076 - 0.086 ppm) with respect to that standard.14  
The State of California also has its own ambient air quality standards (CAAQS) which are equivalent 
to or more stringent than the NAAQS; the Bay Area is currently classified as nonattainment with 
respect to the CAAQS for ozone, particulate matter smaller than 10 microns (PM10), and PM2.5.15 
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
Less Than Significant. Project construction would produce fugitive dust (PM10 and PM2.5) 
during ground disturbance and would generate carbon monoxide, ozone precursors, and 
other emissions from vehicle and equipment operation. BAAQMD released a Clean Air Plan 
(CAP) for the Bay Area in 2010 and updated it in 2017 (2017 CAP), which would be the 
applicable air quality plan for the proposed project.  
 
Projects that result in regional growth in population, employment, or vehicle miles traveled 
(VMT) and exceed the estimates used to develop the 2017 CAP, which are based on growth 
projections from the Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) and local general plans, 
would be inconsistent with the 2017 CAP. Accordingly, projects that propose development 
that is consistent with the growth anticipated by ABAG and local general plans would be 
consistent with the 2017 CAP.  
As described below in Section XI, Land Use and Planning, the project would be consistent 
with the City of San Mateo General Plan policies. The project would involve placement of a 
trash capture device and enhancement of habitat within the project site. The project would 
not induce population growth. During project operation, one (1) to two (2) maintenance 
workers would be on-site to remove captured trash two (2) to three (3) times per year at the 
 
12 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, Air Quality Standards and Attainment Status, https://www.baaqmd.gov/about-
air-quality/research-and-data/air-quality-standards-and-attainment-status, accessed August 2, 2021.  
13 The Bay Area Air Quality Management reported that the maximum 8-hour ozone concentration only exceeded the 
standard once in 2005 and once in 2007, but exceeded the standard on 12 days in 2006.  
14 EPA’s proposed criterion for the “marginal” classification was proposed in the Federal Register on February 14, 2012.  
15 Bay Area Air Quality Management District, Air Quality Standards and Attainment Status, https://www.baaqmd.gov/about-
air-quality/research-and-data/air-quality-standards-and-attainment-status, accessed August 2, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
79 of 662

--- page 80 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
21 
beginning of the rainy season and whenever trash fills more than 50 percent of the device. 
No substantial traffic trips would be generated during operation; therefore, no significant VMT 
effects are anticipated. The project would not generate significant long-term air quality 
emissions as the project proposes no new development or change in land use. Accordingly, 
the project would not conflict with the 2017 CAP. Impacts would be less than significant. 
b) 
Less Than Significant Impact. The San Francisco Bay Area is in non-attainment for ozone 
and particulate matter, including PM10 (State status) and PM2.5 (State status and 24-hour 
national standard). Construction activities would result in short-term increases in criteria 
pollutant emissions from the use of heavy equipment that generates dust, exhaust, and 
tire-wear emissions; soil disturbance; materials used in construction; and construction traffic. 
The BAAQMD provides preliminary screening criteria in the 2017 BAAQMD CEQA 
Guidelines to indicate whether a project would result in the generation of construction-related 
criteria air-pollutants and/or precursors that exceed defined thresholds of significance. The 
project, with the basis construction mitigation control measures below (Mitigation Measure 
AIR-1), meets the screening criteria indicating a less-than-significant impact for 
construction-related activities as the project does not propose any applicable land use or 
development exceed such criteria. As discussed under item a), the project would not result 
in significant criteria pollutant emissions or other significant air quality impacts during 
operation because the project would be consistent with the 2017 CAP. Therefore, the project 
would not result in a cumulatively considerable net increase of any criteria pollutant. Impacts 
would remain less than significant.  
c) 
Less Than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. Sensitive receptors are 
typically defined as the segment of the population most susceptible to air quality effects 
including children, the elderly, and the sick, as well as land uses such as schools, hospitals, 
parks, and residential communities. Sensitive receptors located within 1,000 feet of the 
construction area include residential dwellings on the southeastern side of East Poplar 
Avenue and on the southwestern side of US-101. The sensitive receptors closest to the site 
would be the residential dwellings to the south and southwest of Site 1, approximately 
290 feet from Site 1. Sensitive receptors could be exposed to temporary air pollutants from 
construction activities, such as fugitive dust, ozone precursors, and carbon monoxide. 
Construction emissions would be temporary, lasting approximately 64 working days, and 
would not have long-term effects on air quality in the Bay Area. Thus, there may be temporary 
significant impacts from fugitive dust during construction that would require implementation 
of Mitigation Measure AIR-1.  
Impact AIR-1: Construction activities could produce fugitive dust fugitive dust (PM10 and 
PM2.5) during ground disturbance, which the Bay Area is currently classified as 
nonattainment.  
Mitigation Measure AIR-1: The Bay Area Air Quality Management District 
(BAAQMD) recommends basic construction measures to ensure minimal impacts on 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
80 of 662

--- page 81 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
22 
regional air quality. The contractor would be responsible for implementing the 
following basic measures during construction:  
• 
All exposed surfaces (e.g., parking areas, staging areas, soil piles, graded areas) 
will be watered two (2) times per day.  
• 
All haul trucks transporting soil, sand, or other loose material off-site will be 
covered.  
• 
All visible mud or dirt track-out onto adjacent public roads will be removed using 
wet power vacuum street sweepers at least once per day. The use of dry power 
sweeping is prohibited.  
• 
Idling times will be minimized either by shutting equipment off when not in use or 
reducing the maximum idling time to five (5) minutes (as required by the 
California airborne toxics control measure Title 13, Section 2485 of California 
Code of Regulations).  
• 
Clear signage will be provided for construction workers at all access points.  
• 
All construction equipment will be maintained and properly tuned in accordance 
with manufacturer specifications, and all equipment will be checked by a certified 
visible emissions evaluator.  
• 
A publicly visible sign with the telephone number and person to contact at the 
lead agency regarding any dust complaints will be posted in or near the project 
site. The contact person will respond to complaints and take corrective action 
within 48 hours. BAAQMD‘s phone number will also be visible to ensure 
compliance with applicable regulations. 
Construction-related activities would also result in temporary project-generated emission of 
diesel particulate matter (DPM, a toxic air contaminant) exhaust emission, from off-road, 
heavy-duty diesel equipment for site preparation, grading and other construction activities. 
While sensitive receptors near the construction area may be exposed to contaminants, 
exhaust emission would disperse rapidly from the site and would not substantially impact the 
nearest sensitive receptors. In addition, new construction equipment has been subject to 
increasingly stringent emissions requirements at the Federal level (e.g., 40 Code of Federal 
Regulations [CFR] 89 and 1039), designated “Tier 1”, “Tier 2”, “Tier 3”, etc.; older construction 
equipment is subject to potential retrofit requirements required by the State of California 
(13 CCR 2449, 13 CCR 2450-2466, and 17 CCR 93116). Tier 4 diesel engines would be 
utilized by the contractor during construction to reduce construction toxic air contaminant 
emissions. As a result, sensitive receptors in the vicinity of the project would not be exposed 
to substantial pollutant concentrations, and impacts would be less than significant. 
d) 
Less Than Significant Impact. Construction activities would involve the use of gasoline or 
diesel-powered equipment that emits exhaust fumes. These activities would take place 
intermittently throughout the workday, and the associated odors are expected to dissipate 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
81 of 662

--- page 82 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
23 
within the immediate vicinity of the work area. Persons near the construction work area may 
find these odors objectionable. However, the project would not include uses that have been 
identified by BAAQMD as potential sources of objectionable odors, such as restaurants, 
manufacturing plants, landfills, and agricultural and industrial operations. During device 
maintenance and trash removal, objectionable odors might be produced when accumulated 
trash is disturbed. These odors are also expected to dissipate within the immediate vicinity 
of the work area. The infrequency of the emissions, rapid dissipation of the exhaust and other 
odors into the air, and short-term nature of the construction activities would result in less than 
significant odor impacts.  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
82 of 662

--- page 83 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
24 
IV. 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES — Would 
the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
No Impact 
a) 
Have a substantial adverse effect, either 
directly or through habitat modifications, on 
any species identified as a candidate, 
sensitive, or special-status species in local 
or regional plans, policies, or regulations, 
or by the California Department of Fish and 
Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Have a substantial adverse effect on any 
riparian habitat or other sensitive natural 
community identified in local or regional 
plans, policies, or regulations or by the 
California Department of Fish and Game or 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Have a substantial adverse effect on state 
or federally protected wetlands (including, 
but not limited to, marsh, vernal pool, 
coastal, etc.) through direct removal, filling, 
hydrological interruption, or other means? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Interfere substantially with the movement 
of any native resident or migratory fish or 
wildlife species or with established native 
resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or 
impede the use of native wildlife nursery 
sites? 
 
 
 
 
e) 
Conflict 
with 
any 
local 
policies 
or 
ordinances protecting biological resources, 
such as a tree preservation policy or 
ordinance? 
 
 
 
 
f) 
Conflict with the provisions of an adopted 
Habitat 
Conservation 
Plan, 
Natural 
Community Conservation Plan, or other 
approved local, regional, or state habitat 
conservation plan? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
83 of 662

--- page 84 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
25 
The following discussion related to biological resources is based on a Biological Resources 
Technical Report prepared by WRA, Inc. in October 2021 that is provided in Appendix C. 
Regulatory Setting 
Federal and State 
Sensitive Natural Communities  
Sensitive natural communities include habitats that fulfill special functions or have special values. 
Natural communities considered sensitive are those identified in local or regional plans, policies, 
regulations, or by the CDFW. CDFW ranks sensitive communities as "threatened" or "very 
threatened" and keeps records of their occurrences in its California Natural Diversity Database.1617 
Vegetation alliances are ranked 1 through 5 in the CNDDB based on NatureServe's methodology, 
with those alliances ranked globally (G) or statewide (S) as 1 through 3 considered sensitive.18 
Impacts to sensitive natural communities identified in local or regional plans, policies, or regulations 
or those identified by the CDFW or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) must be considered and 
evaluated under CEQA (CCR Title 14, Div. 6, Chap. 3, Appendix G). In addition, this general class 
includes oak woodlands that are protected by local ordinances under the Oak Woodlands Protection 
Act. 
Waters of the United States Regulated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
The Corps regulates “Waters of the United States” under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (CWA). 
Waters of the United States are defined in CFR as including the territorial seas, and waters which 
are currently used, or were used in the past, or may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign 
commerce, such as tributaries, lakes and ponds, impoundments of waters of the U.S., and wetlands 
that are hydrologically connected with these navigable features (33 CFR 328.3). Potential wetland 
areas, according to the three criteria used to delineate wetlands as defined in the U.S. Army Corps 
of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual, are identified by the presence of (1) hydrophytic 
vegetation, (2) hydric soils, and (3) wetland hydrology.19 Unvegetated waters including lakes, rivers, 
and streams may also be subject to Section 404 jurisdiction and are characterized by an ordinary 
high water mark (OHWM) identified based on field indicators such as the lack of vegetation, sorting 
of sediments, and other indicators of flowing or standing water. The placement of fill material into 
 
16 California Department of Fish and Wildlife. 2021a. California Natural Community List. Biogeographic Data Branch. 
Vegetation Classification and Mapping Program, Sacramento, California. September 9. 
17 California Department of Fish and Wildlife. 2021b. California Natural Diversity Database. Biogeographic Data Branch, 
Vegetation 
Classification 
and 
Mapping 
Program, 
Sacramento, 
California. 
Available 
online 
at: 
https://wildlife.ca.gov/Data/CNDDB/Maps-and-Data; most recently accessed: August 2021. 
18 NatureServe. 2021. NatureServe Conservation Status. Available online at: http://explorer.natureserve.org/ranking.htm. 
Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
19 Environmental Laboratory. 1987. Corp of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual. Department of the Army, Waterways 
Experiment Station, Technical Report Y-87-1, Vicksburg, Mississippi. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
84 of 662

--- page 85 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
26 
Waters of the United States generally requires a permit from the Corps under Section 404 of the 
CWA.  
The Corps also regulates construction in navigable waterways of the U.S. through Section 10 of the 
Rivers and Harbors Act (RHA) of 1899 (33 United States Code [USC] 403). Section 10 of the RHA 
requires Corps approval and a permit for excavation or fill, or alteration or modification of the course, 
location, condition, or capacity of, any port, roadstead, haven, harbor, canal, lake, harbor or refuge, 
or enclosure within the limits of any breakwater, or of the channel of any navigable water of the 
United States. Section 10 requirements apply only to navigable waters themselves, and are not 
applicable to tributaries, adjacent wetlands, and similar aquatic features not capable of supporting 
interstate commerce. 
Waters of the State, Including Wetlands 
The term “Waters of the State” is defined by the Porter-Cologne Act as “any surface water or 
groundwater, including saline waters, within the boundaries of the state.” The SWRCB and 
nine (9) RWQCB protect waters within this broad regulatory scope through many different regulatory 
programs. Waters of the State in the context of a CEQA Biological Resources evaluation include 
wetlands and other surface waters protected by the State Wetland Definition and Procedures for 
Discharges of Dredged or Fill Material to Waters of the State.20 The SWRCB and RWQCB issue 
permits for the discharge of fill material into surface waters through the State Water Quality 
Certification Program, which fulfills requirements of Section 401 of the CWA and the Porter-Cologne 
Water Quality Control Act. Projects that require a Clean Water Act permit are also required to obtain 
a Water Quality Certification. If a project does not require a federal permit but does involve discharge 
of dredge or fill material into surface waters of the State, the SWRCB and RWQCB may issue a 
permit in the form of Waste Discharge Requirements. 
Sections 1600-1616 of California Fish and Game Code 
Streams and lakes, as habitat for fish and wildlife species, are regulated by CDFW under Sections 
1600-1616 of California Fish and Game Code (CFGC). Alterations to or work within or adjacent to 
streambeds or lakes generally require a 1602 Lake and Streambed Alteration Agreement. The term 
“stream,” which includes creeks and rivers, is defined in the California Code of Regulations (CCR) 
as “a body of water that flows at least periodically or intermittently through a bed or channel having 
banks and supports fish or other aquatic life [including] watercourses having a surface or subsurface 
flow that supports or has supported riparian vegetation” (14 CCR 1.72). The term “stream” can 
include ephemeral streams, dry washes, watercourses with subsurface flows, canals, aqueducts, 
irrigation ditches, and other means of water conveyance if they support aquatic life, riparian 
vegetation, or stream-dependent terrestrial wildlife.21 Riparian vegetation has been defined as 
 
20 State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB). 2019. State Wetland Definition and Procedures for Discharges of 
Dredged or Fill Material to Waters of the State, May 14, 2019. 
21 California Department of Fish and Game. 1994. A Field Guide to Lake and Streambed Alteration Agreements, Sections 
1600-1607. Environmental Services Division, California Department of Fish and Wildlife, Sacramento, California. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
85 of 662

--- page 86 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
27 
“vegetation which occurs in and/or adjacent to a stream and is dependent on, and occurs because 
of, the stream itself.”22 Removal of riparian vegetation also requires a Section 1602 Lake and 
Streambed Alteration Agreement from CDFW. 
Endangered and Threatened Plants, Fish, and Wildlife 
Specific species of plants, fish, and wildlife species may be designated as threatened or endangered 
by the federal Endangered Species Act (ESA), or the California Endangered Species Act (CESA). 
Specific protections and permitting mechanisms for these species differ under each of these acts, 
and a species’ designation under one (1) law does not automatically provide protection under the 
other.  
The ESA (16 USC 1531 et seq.) is implemented by the USFWS and the National Marine Fisheries 
Service (NMFS). The USFWS and NMFS maintain lists of endangered and threatened plant and 
animal species (referred to as "listed species"). "Proposed" or "candidate" species are those that are 
being considered for listing and are not protected until they are formally listed as threatened or 
endangered. Under the ESA, authorization must be obtained from the USFWS or NMFS prior to take 
of any listed species. “Take” under the ESA is defined as “harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, 
kill, trap, capture, or collect, or to attempt to engage in any such conduct.” Take under the ESA 
includes direct injury or mortality to individuals, disruptions in normal behavioral patterns resulting 
from factors such as noise and visual disturbance and impacts to habitat for listed species. Actions 
that may result in take of an ESA-listed species may obtain a permit under ESA Section 10, or via 
the interagency consultation described in ESA Section 7. Federally listed plant species are only 
protected when take occurs on federal land.  
The ESA also provides for designation of critical habitat, which are specific geographic areas 
containing physical or biological features “essential to the conservation of the species.” Protections 
afforded to designated critical habitat apply only to actions that are funded, permitted, or carried out 
by federal agencies. Critical habitat designations do not affect activities by private landowners if 
there is no other federal agency involvement. 
The CESA (CFGC 2050 et seq.) prohibits a take of any plant and animal species that the CFGC 
determines to be an endangered or threatened species in California. CESA regulations include take 
protection for threatened and endangered plants on private lands, as well as extending this 
protection to candidate species which are proposed for listing as threatened or endangered under 
CESA. The definition of a "take" under CESA ("hunt, pursue, catch, capture, or kill, or attempt to 
hunt, pursue, catch, capture, or kill") only applies to direct impact to individuals, and does not extend 
to habitat impacts or harassment. CDFW may issue an Incidental Take Permit under CESA to 
authorize take if it is incidental to otherwise lawful activity and if specific criteria are met. Take of 
these species is also authorized if the geographic area is covered by a Natural Community 
Conservation Plan (NCCP), as long as the NCCP covers that activity. 
 
22 California Department of Fish and Game. 1994. A Field Guide to Lake and Streambed Alteration Agreements, Sections 
1600-1607. Environmental Services Division, California Department of Fish and Wildlife, Sacramento, California. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
86 of 662

--- page 87 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
28 
Fully Protected Species and Designated Rare Plant Species 
This category includes specific plant and wildlife species that are designated in the CFGC as 
protected even if not listed under CESA or ESA. Fully Protected Species includes specific lists of 
birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and fish designated in CFGC. Fully protected species may 
not be taken or possessed at any time. No licenses or permits may be issued for take of fully 
protected species, except for necessary scientific research and conservation purposes. The 
definition of "take" is the same under the California Fish and Game Code and the CESA. By law, 
CDFW may not issue an Incidental Take Permit for Fully Protected Species. Under the California 
Native Plant Protection Act (NPPA), CDFW has listed 64 “rare” or “endangered” plant species, and 
prevents “take”, with few exceptions, of these species. CDFW may authorize take of species 
protected by the NPPA through the Incidental Take Permit process, or under a NCCP.  
Special Protection for Nesting Birds and Bats 
The federal Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act provides relatively broad protections to both of 
North America’s eagle species (bald eagle [Haliaeetus leucocephalus] and golden eagle [Aquila 
chrysaetos]) that in some regards are similar to those provided by the ESA. In addition to regulations 
for special-status species, most native birds in the United States, including non-status species, have 
baseline legal protections under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 and CFGC, i.e., sections 3503, 
3503.5 and 3513. Under these laws/codes, the intentional harm or collection of adult birds as well 
as the intentional collection or destruction of active nests, eggs, and young is illegal. For bat species, 
the Western Bat Working Group (WBWG) designates conservation status for species of bats, and 
those with a high or medium-high priority are typically given special consideration under CEQA. 
Essential Fish Habitat 
The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act provides for conservation and 
management of fishery resources in the U.S., administered by NMFS. This Act establishes a national 
program intended to prevent overfishing, rebuild overfished stocks, ensure conservation, and 
facilitate long-term protection through the establishment of Essential Fish Habitat (EFH). EFH 
consists of aquatic areas that contain habitat essential to the long-term survival and health of 
fisheries, which may include the water column, certain bottom types, vegetation (e.g., eelgrass 
(Zostera spp.)), or complex structures such as oyster beds. Any federal agency that authorizes, 
funds, or undertakes action that may adversely affect EFH is required to consult with NMFS. 
Species of Special Concern, Movement Corridors, and Other Special-status Species under 
CEQA. 
To address additional species protections afforded under CEQA, CDFW has developed a list of 
special species as “a general term that refers to all of the taxa the CNDDB is interested in tracking, 
regardless of their legal or protection status.” This list includes lists developed by other organizations, 
including for example, the Audubon Watch List Species, the Bureau of Land Management Sensitive 
Species, and USFWS Birds of Special Concern. Plant species on the California Native Plant Society 
(CNPS) Inventory of Rare and Endangered Plants (Inventory) with California Rare Plant Ranks 
(Rank) of 1 and 2, as well as some with a Rank of 3, are also considered special-status plant species 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
87 of 662

--- page 88 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
29 
and must be considered under CEQA. Some Rank 3 species and all Rank 4 species are typically 
only afforded protection under CEQA when such species are particularly unique to the locale (e.g., 
range limit, low abundance/low frequency, limited habitat) or are otherwise considered locally rare. 
Additionally, any species listed as sensitive within local plans, policies and ordinances are likewise 
considered sensitive. Movement and migratory corridors for native wildlife (including aquatic 
corridors) as well as wildlife nursery sites are given special consideration under CEQA.  
Local Plans and Policies 
San Mateo County General Plan 
The San Mateo County General Plan, Chapter 1. Vegetative, Water, Fish and Wildlife Resources 
Policies contains policies pertaining to the following biological resources categories: 
• 
Wetlands, streams, riparian, and aquatic areas (Policy 1.26, 1.37, 1.41, 1.49, etc.) 
• 
Vegetation Resources (Policy 1.25) 
• 
Wildlife Species (Policy 1.27) 
• 
Wildlife Corridors (Policy 1.29) 
City of San Mateo Tree Ordinance 
City of San Mateo Tree Ordinance. The City of San Mateo Tree Ordinance requires a permit for the 
removal, major pruning of more than one-fourth of the crown, or removal of any roots within a 
distance equal to six (6) times the diameter of the trunk of any Heritage tree from any parcel of 
property in the City. The Ordinance defines a “Heritage trees” as: 
1. Any oak having a trunk diameter or diameter at breast height (DBH) of 10 inches or more, 
measured at 4.5 feet (54 inches) above ground level. 
2. Any tree with a trunk diameter of 15 inches or more, measured at 4.5 feet (54 inches) 
above ground level. 
3. Multi-stem trees. Trees with more than one (1) stem (arising at or below 54 inches) shall be 
measured at the smallest diameter point below the main union of all stems unless the union 
occurs below grade, in which case each stem shall be measured as a stand-alone tree. For 
oak trees, if one (1) stem is 10 inches or more in diameter, the tree will constitute 
one (1) Heritage Tree. For all other species, if one (1) stem is fifteen inches or more in 
diameter, the tree will constitute one (1) Heritage Tree. 
4. Any tree or stand of trees designated by resolution of the City Council to be of special 
historical value or of significant community benefit; or 
5. A stand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others for survival. 
Environmental Setting 
The approximately 0.10-acre project site is located immediately north of the intersection of East 
Poplar Avenue and North Bayshore Boulevard and adjacent to the Poplar Creek Golf Course, and 
within Poplar Creek, an intermittent, concrete-lined stream located in San Mateo, California. The 
project site includes all areas directly affected by the project, as well as adjacent areas of natural 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
88 of 662

--- page 89 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
30 
cover (i.e., riparian trees and shrubs), as well as upstream and downstream areas that could be 
temporarily or permanently affected by the project. Additional details of the local setting are below. 
Soils and Topography 
The overall topography of the project site is flat with elevations ranging from approximately 0 to 2 feet 
above sea level. According to the Soil Survey of San Mateo County, Eastern Part and San Francisco 
County, the project site consists of Urban land-Orthents, reclaimed complex. The soil series of the 
project site’s mapping units is summarized below.23  
Urban land-Orthents, reclaimed complex, 0 to 2 percent slopes: This map unit is in areas that were 
once part of San Francisco Bay and adjacent tidal flats. This unit is about 65 percent Urban land and 
30 percent Orthents, reclaimed. Urban land consists of area covered by asphalt, concrete, buildings, 
and other structures. Orthents consist of soils that are very deep and poorly drained and are in areas 
that have been filled. They are comprised of soil material, gravel, broken cement and asphalt, bay 
mud, and solid waste materials. This unit also contains small inclusions of Reyes clay, Novato clay, 
and where those inclusions in present the soil is hydric. These soils are not considered hydric and 
are poorly drained with slow runoff.24 
Climate and Hydrology 
The project site is located in the coastal region of the City of San Mateo in San Mateo County. The 
average monthly maximum temperature in the area is 66 degrees Fahrenheit, while the average 
monthly minimum temperature is 50 degrees Fahrenheit. Predominantly, precipitation falls as rainfall 
between November and March with an annual average precipitation of 20 inches.  
The local watershed is San Francisco Bay Estuaries (HUC 12: 180500041001) and the regional 
watershed is San Francisco Bay (HUC 8: 18050004). The project site is located in the upper portion 
of the San Francisco Bay watershed. There is a blue-line stream, Poplar Creek in the project site.25  
Land Use 
The surfaces of the project site and immediate surrounding areas have been rendered largely 
impermeable by the construction of the concrete lined channel, buildings, maintenance lots, and 
surrounding streets (Google Earth 2021). Undeveloped areas consist of ruderal upland, and the 
surrounding golf course turf. Historically, the project site was more heavily vegetated with sections 
used for storage and staging areas.26 
 
23 U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). 1991. Soil Survey of San Mateo County, Eastern Part and San Francisco 
County. 
24 Ibid 
25 U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). 2018. San Mateo, California 7.5-minute quadrangle topographic map. 
26 
Nationwide 
Environmental 
Title 
Research 
(NETR). 
2021. 
Historic 
Aerials. 
Available 
online 
at: 
https://historicaerials.com/viewer. Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
89 of 662

--- page 90 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
31 
Vegetation Communities and Other Land Cover 
WRA observed three land cover types within the project site: developed, ruderal grassland, and 
mixed woodland. Land cover types within the project site are illustrated in Figure 5 and Figure 6 and 
shown in Table 1 below. The non-sensitive land cover types in the project site include ruderal upland, 
developed areas, and mixed ornamental woodland while the sensitive communities include the 
intermittent stream.  
Table 1. Vegetation Community and Land Cover Types 
 
 
COMMUNITY/LAND COVER 
SENSITIVE STATUS 
RARITY RANKING 
ACRES WITHIN PROJECT 
SITE 
Terrestrial Community/Land Cover 
Developed 
Non-sensitive 
None 
0.02 
Mixed 
ornamental 
woodland 
Non-sensitive 
None 
<0.01 
Ruderal upland 
Non-sensitive 
None 
 
Aquatic Resources 
Intermittent stream 
Sensitive 
N/A 
0.03 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
90 of 662

--- page 91 ---
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\CEQA\Figure 6A. Biological Communities at Site 1.mxd
Project Area (0.08 ac.)
Top of Bank (0.04 ac.)
Sensitive Communities
Intermittent Stream - OHWM
(0.03 ac.)
Non-Sensitive Communities
Developed (0.02 ac.)
Mixed Ornamental
Woodland (<0.01 ac.)
Ruderal Upland (0.03 ac.)
Sources: Google Earth May 2018 Aerial, 2010 ARRA LiDAR, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 10/1/2021
Figure 5.
Biological Communities at Site 1
0
50
25
Feet
101
North Bayshore Boulevard
East Poplar Avenue
Popl
ar C
r
eek
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project 
City of San Mateo  
32 
    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
      January March 2022 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
91 of 662

--- page 92 ---
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\CEQA\Figure 6B. Biological Communities at Site 2.mxd
Site 2: Stream Enhancement
Area (0.02 ac./ 1,000 sq.ft.)
Non-Sensitive Communities
Developed (0.02 ac.)
Sources: Google Earth May 2018 Aerial, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 10/1/2021
Figure 6.
Biological Communities 
at Stream Enhancement Site 2
0
50
25
Feet
Poplar Cree
k
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project 
City of San Mateo  
33 
    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
      January March 2022 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
92 of 662

--- page 93 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
34 
Terrestrial Land Cover 
Developed Area (no vegetation alliance). CDFW Rank: None.  
The developed areas total 0.04 acre in the project site (Figure 5 and Figure 6). Developed areas are 
characterized by concrete-lined banks in the channel, a cement culvert forming a bridge across the 
channel, as well as cement or gravel lots associated with the maintenance yards of the nearby 
facilities. Developed areas also include landscaped turf within the Poplar Creek Golf Course. Sparse 
ruderal vegetation occurs growing in cement seams. This community is not considered sensitive by 
San Mateo County, CDFW, or any other regulatory entity. 
Mixed ornamental woodland (no vegetation alliance). CDFW Rank: None. 
Mixed ornamental woodland is located above TOB along the southeast side of the channel. The 
woodland varies from approximately 5 to 15 feet in width in a strip of earth between the channel and 
the East Poplar Avenue sidewalk (Figure 5). The mixed ornamental woodland is less than 0.01 acre 
in size and is composed of a planted coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia), blackwood acacia (Acacia 
melanoxylon) and an unidentified dead tree. The understory consisted of sparse ruderal, non -native 
grasses and bare ground. This cover type does not meet any of the membership requirements for 
any vegetation alliances and is not considered sensitive. 
Ruderal Upland (multiple vegetation alliances). CDFW Ranks: None. 
Although not described in the literature, ruderal upland includes areas that have been partially 
developed or have been used in the past. However, these areas are not currently in use and have 
been allowed to revert to a semi-natural condition. Ruderal upland is common throughout California 
in both rural and urban settings. Vegetation at the TOB of this section of Poplar Creek is dominated 
by ruderal upland species (Figure 5). Within the project site, most ruderal upland vegetation is 
dominated by dense stands of fennel (Foeniculum vulgare) interspersed with other non-native 
upland grass species. The majority of the ruderal upland area meets the membership rules of the 
Foeniculum vulgare Herbaceous Semi-Natural Alliance due to the density of fennel growth. Other 
upland species found in this area are Bermuda grass (Cynodon dactylon), wild oats (Avena sp.), 
ripgut brome (Bromus diandrus). A large Scotch broom (Cytisus scoparius) shrub also occurs within 
this land cover type, along the northwester edge of Poplar Creek.  
Aquatic Resources 
Intermittent stream. (No Alliance). CDFW Rank: Sensitive 
Poplar Creek is identified in the NWI as an intermittent stream at and below the OHWM and occupies 
approximately 0.03 acre of the project site (Figure 5). Poplar Creek is ranked as a sensitive aquatic 
community and is considered a water of the United States as well as a water of the state. From the 
project site, flows from Poplar Creek continue outside of the project site in a northeasterly direction 
for approximately 3,000 feet, at which time the channel becomes unlined and begins to flow in the 
southeasterly direction. This earthen channel conveys flow for approximately 700 feet before 
discharging into the open forebay of the Poplar Pump Station. Flow from the forebay enters the 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
93 of 662

--- page 94 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
35 
pump station intake and is discharged through the earthen flood control levee into the San Francisco 
Bay. 
At the time of the October 2020 survey there was approximately one (1) inch of water flowing in the 
channel. No substantial precipitation had occurred in the recent few weeks and the flow is presumed 
to originate largely from nuisance runoff from landscaping or other artificial sources upstream. The 
channel was observed to be fully concrete lined in the banks and bed in the entire project site. The 
cement bottom precludes vegetation from establishing. Some sediment has accumulated within the 
channel, which has allowed sparse vegetation to establish. A survey of the vegetated area within 
the stream channel following the methods of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation 
Manual, the Regional Supplement to the Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual: Arid West 
Region determined that wetlands have not established in or around the channel. The cement-lined 
area along the stream that lies at and below TOB is not considered a sensitive vegetation community 
because the area is largely unvegetated and precludes the growth of native, sensitive vegetation 
communities.  
Special-Status Species 
Special-Status Plants 
Based upon a review of the resource databases, 61 special-status plant species have been 
documented in the vicinity of the project site. Only one (1) special-status plant species, Franciscan 
onion (Allium peninsulare var. franciscanum), has been documented within 2 miles of the project 
site. This species and the other 60 species recorded in the neighboring CNDDB quadrangles are 
presumed absent because the project site consists mostly of unvegetated hardscape and there are 
no native plant communities present. All of these species documented from the greater vicinity are 
unlikely or have no potential to occur for one (1) or more of the following reasons: 
• 
Hydrologic conditions (e.g., tidal, riverine) necessary to support the special-status plant 
species are not present in the project site; 
• 
Edaphic (soil) conditions (e.g., volcanic tuff, serpentine) necessary to support the 
special-status plant species are not present in the project site; 
• 
Associated natural communities (e.g., interior chaparral, tidal marsh) necessary to support 
the special-status plant species are not present in the project site;  
• 
The historical landscape and/or habitat(s) of the project site were not suitable habitat prior to 
land/type conversion (e.g., reclaimed shoreline) to support the special-status plant species; 
• 
Land use history and contemporary management (e.g., grading, intensive landscaping) has 
degraded the localized habitat necessary to support the special-status plant species and 
created a lack of viable seed bank due to historic soil alterations; 
• 
Non-native species competition. 
 
Special-Status Wildlife 
No special-status wildlife species were observed in the project site during the site assessment. While 
none were observed, 36 special-status wildlife species have been documented to occur in the South 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
94 of 662

--- page 95 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
36 
San Francisco, Hunters Point, Montara Mountain and San Mateo USGS 7.5’ Quadrangles.27 Of 
these, only ten species are documented to occur within 2 miles of the project site in the CNDDB.28 
Most of the special-status species known from the vicinity of the project site were determined to have 
no potential, or are unlikely to occur due to one (1) or more of the following reasons: 
• 
Aquatic habitats necessary to support the special-status wildlife species (e.g., vernal pools, 
freshwater streams/rivers) are not present in the project site; 
• 
Vegetation communities (e.g., tidal or freshwater marsh, grassland, oak woodlands, 
old-growth coniferous forest, riparian woodland/forest) that provide nesting and/or foraging 
resources necessary support the special-status wildlife species are not present in the project 
site; 
• 
Structures or vegetation (e.g., caves, old-growth trees) necessary to provide nesting or cover 
habitat to support the special-status wildlife species are not present in the project site; 
• 
Host plants necessary to provide larval and nectar resources required for the completion of 
life cycles for specific special-status insects are not present in the project site; 
• 
The project site is outside the special-status wildlife species’ local documented range, or 
specifically nesting range (generally applies to birds); 
• 
The project site is separated from suitable habitats by roads with high traffic volume and is 
embedded within a highly urbanized setting that does not contain suitable habitat; and 
• 
The project site is surrounded by urban areas and has little to no connectivity to open spaces 
that would support special-status species. 
Based upon the database and literature review, no special-status species documented in the vicinity 
have the potential to occur within the project site. However, given the proximity to the project site of 
suitable habitat for some special-status species, three (3) species warrant further discussion and are 
addressed below. 
California Ridgway’s rail (Rallus. longirostris obsoletus; CRR). Federal Endangered, State 
Endangered, CDFW Fully Protected Species. Unlikely. Formerly known as California clapper rail, 
CRR is the resident Ridgway’s/clapper rail subspecies of northern and central California. Although 
more widespread in the past, it is currently restricted to the San Francisco Bay estuary. The CRR 
occurs only within salt and brackish marshes. Important CRR habitat components include 
well-developed tidal sloughs and secondary channels, and cordgrass (Spartina spp.) beds in the 
lower marsh zone, dense salt marsh vegetation for cover, nest sites, and brooding areas, intertidal 
mudflats, gradually sloping banks of tidal channels, abundant invertebrate food resources, and 
transitional vegetation at the marsh edge to serve as high tide refuge. In south and central San 
Francisco Bay and along the perimeter of San Pablo Bay, CRR typically inhabits salt marshes 
dominated by pickleweed and cordgrass. Brackish marshes supporting CRR occur along major 
 
27 California Department of Fish and Wildlife. 2021b. California Natural Diversity Database. Biogeographic 
Data Branch, Vegetation Classification and Mapping Program, Sacramento, California. Available online at: 
https://wildlife.ca.gov/Data/CNDDB/Maps-and-Data; most recently accessed: August 2021. 
28 Ibid 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
95 of 662

--- page 96 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
37 
sloughs and rivers of San Pablo Bay and along tidal sloughs of Suisun Marsh. Nesting occurs from 
March through July, with peak activity in late April to late May. CRR nests, constructed of wetland 
vegetation and platform-shaped, are placed near the ground in clumps of dense vegetation, usually 
in the lower marsh zone near small tidal channels. 
CRR has been documented approximately 0.5-mile northeast of the project site.29 Based on aerial 
imagery, this occurrence exists in a small patch of salt marsh along the edge of the San Francisco 
Bay.30 Despite the close proximity of this occurrence, it is unlikely that CRR would inhabit the project 
site given that the project site does not contain the dense salt marsh vegetation and intertidal 
mudflats that this species requires for breeding and foraging. Additionally, the project site is more 
than 700 feet from any suitable habitat, suggesting that any noise impacts associated with project 
activities would be unlikely to impact CRR breeding behaviors, which are highly dependent on 
vocalizations. CRR use of the project site, if it were to occur, would be limited to occasional 
movements through the project site between patches of more suitable habitat; but they would not 
utilize the area for extended periods of time. Therefore, it is unlikely that CRR would occur within the 
project site, and no protocol level CRR surveys would be required due to the distance of the project 
site from any suitable habitat.  
Burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia). CDFW Species of Special Concern. Unlikely. The burrowing owl 
occurs as a year-round resident and winter visitor in much of California’s lowlands, inhabiting open 
areas with sparse or non-existent tree or shrub canopies. Typical habitat is annual or perennial 
grassland, although human-modified areas such as agricultural lands and airports are also used.31 
This species is dependent on burrowing mammals to provide the burrows that are used 
characteristically for shelter and nesting, and in northern California is typically found in close 
association with California ground squirrels (Otospermophilus beecheyi). Manmade substrates such 
as pipes or debris piles may also be occupied in place of burrows. Prey consists of insects and small 
vertebrates. Breeding typically takes place from March to July. 
Burrowing owl has been documented throughout San Mateo County, with the closest documented 
occurrence approximately 1.25 miles southeast of the project site.32 However, habitat for this species 
within the project site is generally marginal. A small ruderal grassland is present along the 
northwestern side of the project site near the intersection with North Bayshore Boulevard; however, 
 
29 California Department of Fish and Wildlife. 2021b. California Natural Diversity Database. Biogeographic Data Branch, 
Vegetation 
Classification 
and 
Mapping 
Program, 
Sacramento, 
California. 
Available 
online 
at: 
https://wildlife.ca.gov/Data/CNDDB/Maps-and-Data; most recently accessed: August 2021. 
30 Google Earth. 2021. Aerial Imagery 1986-2021. Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
31 Poulin, Ray, L. D. Todd, E. A. Haug, B. A. Millsap and M. S. Martell. 2011. Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia), The 
Birds of North America Online (A. Poole, Ed.). Ithaca: Cornell Lab of Ornithology; Retrieved from the Birds of North America 
Online: http://bna.birds.cornell.edu/bna/species/061doi:10.2173/bna.61 
32 California Department of Fish and Wildlife. 2021b. California Natural Diversity Database. Biogeographic Data Branch, 
Vegetation 
Classification 
and 
Mapping 
Program, 
Sacramento, 
California. 
Available 
online 
at: 
https://wildlife.ca.gov/Data/CNDDB/Maps-and-Data; most recently accessed: August 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
96 of 662

--- page 97 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
38 
no small mammal burrows or burrow surrogates were observed during the site visit that might provide 
shelter for wintering or breeding burrowing owl. Therefore, it is unlikely that burrowing owls would 
occur within the project site.  
Steelhead – central California coast (CCC) Distinct Population Segment (DPS) (Oncorhynchus 
mykiss irideus) Federal Threatened. Unlikely. This DPS includes all naturally spawned populations 
of steelhead (and their progeny) in California streams from the Russian River to Aptos Creek, and 
the drainages of San Francisco and San Pablo Bays eastward to the Napa River (inclusive), 
excluding the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Basin. Steelhead typically migrate to marine waters 
after spending two (2) years in freshwater, though they may stay up to seven (7). They then reside 
in marine waters for two (2) to three (3) years prior to returning to their natal stream to spawn as four 
(4) or five (5)-year-olds. Steelhead adults typically spawn between December and June. Preferred 
spawning habitat for steelhead is in perennial streams with cool to cold-water temperatures, high 
dissolved oxygen levels, and fast flowing water. Abundant riffle areas (shallow areas with gravel or 
cobble substrate) for spawning and deeper pools with sufficient riparian cover for rearing are 
necessary for successful breeding. 
The closest CCC steelhead supporting stream is San Mateo Creek, approximately one (1) mile 
southeast of the project site.33 Despite the documented presence of steelhead in nearby waterways, 
the concrete lined portion of Poplar Creek that passes through the project site would not support 
steelhead populations. While the stream held water during the October 2020 site visit, flows were 
extremely low and likely resulted from various urban runoff sources. There is no gravel or cobble 
substrate that would support the deposition of eggs, and thus a breeding population. Additionally, it 
is unlikely that steelhead would travel through Poplar Creek to reach better breeding grounds 
upstream, particularly because Poplar Creek proceeds into lined and underground storm drainages 
immediately upstream of the project site. Additionally, the mouth of Poplar Creek where it drains into 
the San Francisco Bay is also channeled through a pump station before discharging to the Bay, 
therefore rendering it completely disconnected from the Bay. Given the disconnection from the Bay, 
and lack of suitable breeding habitat within the project site or in the immediate vicinity, and barriers 
to movement that under most circumstances would prevent this species from entering the project 
site, steelhead are unlikely to occur within the project site.  
Wildlife Corridors and Native Wildlife Nursery Sites 
No native wildlife nursery sites are present in the project site. Wildlife movement between suitable 
habitat areas can occur via open space areas lacking substantial barriers. The terms “landscape 
linkage” and “wildlife corridor” are often used when referring to these areas. The key to a functioning 
corridor or linkage is that it connects two (2) larger habitat blocks, also referred to as core habitat 
 
33 Center for Ecosystem Management and Restoration (CEMAR). 2021. Current status of Oncorhynchus mykiss in streams 
of 
San 
Francisco 
and 
San 
Mateo 
Counties, 
California. 
Online 
at: 
http://cemar.org/estuarystreamsreport/images/NewMaps/SF_SanMateo_Counties_Cur.pdf/. Most recently accessed: 
September 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
97 of 662

--- page 98 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
39 
areas.3435 It is useful to think of a “landscape linkage” as being valuable in a regional planning 
context, a broad scale mapping of natural habitat that functions to join two (2) larger habitat blocks. 
The term “wildlife corridor” is useful in the context of smaller, local area planning, where wildlife 
movement may be facilitated by specific local biological habitats or passages and/or may be 
restricted by barriers to movement. Above all, wildlife corridors must link two (2) areas of core habitat 
and should not direct wildlife to developed areas or areas that are otherwise void of core habitat.36 
The project site is not within a designated wildlife corridor, as based on the Essential Connectivity 
Areas habitat mapper.37 The site is generally located within a dense urban and residential matrix, 
which is typically considered to serve as a barrier to dispersal for most wildlife species. While 
common and/or urban-adapted wildlife species presumably utilize the site to some degree for 
movement at a local scale, the project site itself does not provide corridor functions beyond 
connecting other small habitat patches in surrounding areas. 
Methods 
Prior to the site visit, background literature was reviewed to determine the potential presence of 
sensitive vegetation types, aquatic communities, and special-status plant and wildlife species. 
Resources reviewed for sensitive vegetation communities and aquatic features include aerial 
photography, mapped soil types, the CNPS Online Database, CDFW’s California Natural Diversity 
Database, and USFWS’s Information for Planning and Consultation (IPaC) database. For database 
queries, the San Mateo and eight (8) surrounding U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) 7.5-minute 
quadrangles were included as the focal search area.  
In October 2020, WRA biologists conducted a field assessment of the project site to evaluate the 
potential presence of sensitive vegetation communities and aquatic features and evaluate on-site 
habitats to determine the potential for occurrence of special-status plant and wildlife species. 
Observed plant communities, aquatic features, and plant and wildlife species were noted. Site 
conditions were noted as they relate to habitat requirements of special-status plant and wildlife 
species known to occur in the vicinity as determined by the background literature research. 
The project site was assessed in terms of potential biological resources impacts on the 
redevelopment project. This analysis was performed to a level of detail necessary to understand 
 
34 Beier, P., and S. Loe. 1992. A checklist for evaluating impacts to wildlife movement corridors. Wildlife Society Bulletin 
20(4):434–440. 
35 Soulé, M. E., and J. Terbough. 1999. Conserving nature at regional and continental scales - a scientific program for 
North America. BioScience 49(10):809–817. 
36 Hilty, J. A., W. Z. Lidicker Jr, and A. M. Merenlender. 2019. Corridor Ecology: Linking Landscapes for Biodiversity 
Conservation. Second Edition. Island Press. 
37 California Department of Transportation (Caltrans). 2010. California Essential Habitat Connectivity Project: A Strategy 
for Conserving a Connected California. Prepared for California Department of Transportation, California Department of 
Fish 
and 
Game, 
and 
Federal 
Highways 
Administration. 
Available 
online 
at: 
https://www.wildlife.ca.gov/Conservation/Planning/Connectivity/CEHC. Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
98 of 662

--- page 99 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
40 
what types of major biological impacts are likely to be associated with the proposed project activities, 
with a focus on the project footprint within the Biological Study Area.  
The conclusions of this analysis are based on conditions observed at the time of the field 
assessments and regulatory policies and practices in place at the time the Biological Resources 
Technical Report (Appendix C) was prepared; changes that may occur in the future with regard to 
conditions, policies, or practices could affect the conclusions presented in this assessment. 
Discussion of Impacts 
a) Less than Significant with Mitigation Incorporated. The biological assessment 
determined that no special-status bird species have the potential to utilize habitats within the 
project site. Common native bird species may nest within the project site and may be affected 
by project activities through visual, auditory, or physical disturbance causing nest 
abandonment or destruction. Due to the protected status of these species under both the 
Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) and CFGC, impacts to common native nesting birds would 
be considered a potentially significant impact under CEQA. To reduce potential impacts to 
native nesting birds to a less than significant level, Mitigation Measure BIO-1 would be 
implemented: 
Impact BIO-1: Construction activities and vegetation removal associated with the project 
could result in the destruction or abandonment of nests of non-status bird species protected 
under the MBTA, CFGC, and CEQA. 
Mitigation Measure BIO-1: To the extent feasible, project-related activities should 
be avoided during the nesting bird season, generally defined as February 1 through 
August 31. If project work must occur during the nesting bird season, pre-construction 
nesting bird surveys must be conducted within 14 days of ground disturbance to avoid 
disturbance to active nests, eggs, and/or young of nesting birds. These surveys would 
determine the presence or absence of active nests that may be affected by project 
activities. It is also recommended that any trees and shrubs in or adjacent to the 
project site that are proposed for removal and that could be used as avian nesting 
sites be removed during the non-nesting season (September 1 through January 31). 
In the event that a nest of a protected species is located, a no disturbance buffer shall be 
established around the nest until all young have fledged or the nest otherwise becomes 
inactive (e.g., due to predation). Suggested buffer zone distances differ depending on 
species, location, baseline conditions, and placement of nest and will be determined and 
implemented in the field by a qualified biologist. 
b) Less than Significant Impact. Sensitive natural communities within the project site include 
an intermittent stream, which is located within a concrete-lined channel. 
 
Project impacts by land cover type and community are depicted in Figure 7. The RWQCB 
required that the project shall be designed to minimize and avoid impacts to the intermittent 
stream. The installation of the trash capture device will result in placement of fill in the 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
99 of 662

--- page 100 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
41 
concrete-lined channel.  The purpose of the trash capture device itself will benefit water 
quality and hydrology in the stream by helping the City effectively capture and remove trash. 
Additionally, implementation of downstream stream enhancements will minimize any impacts 
that could result from the additional fill in the concrete-lined channel. Based on these factors, 
the installation of the trash capture device will result in a less than significant impact to aquatic 
resources. 
c) 
Less than Significant Impact. The RWQCB required that the project be designed to 
minimize and avoid impacts to the intermittent stream, which is considered a sensitive 
resource. The installation of the trash capture device will result in placement of fill in the 
concrete-lined channel; however, the trash capture device itself will benefit water quality and 
hydrology by helping the City effectively remove trash from the creek. Additionally, 
implementation of downstream stream enhancements will minimize any impacts resulting 
from the additional fill in the concrete-lined channel. Based on these factors, the installation 
of the trash capture device will result in a less than significant impact to aquatic resources.  
d) 
Less than Significant Impact., No portions of the project site provide connectivity between 
areas of suitable habitat. For terrestrial species, all portions of the project site are within a 
greater context of urban development, and for aquatic species, there is no connectivity 
between the project site and upstream freshwater habitats or downstream marine habitats. 
No impact will occur to migratory corridors for terrestrial and aquatic species.  
The proposed project involves the installation of a trash capture device in an intermittent 
stream. While the project site in general provides suitable cover and habitat for various types 
of terrestrial wildlife movement, the installation of the trash capture device will not provide a 
barrier to the dispersal of any wildlife species. Temporary impacts in upland areas associated 
with staging would also not provide a barrier to dispersal that could not be easily 
circumnavigated through other similar habitats. The proposed project would not result in 
temporary or permanent changes to movement of volant species. Based on these factors, 
the installation of the trash capture device will result in a less-than-significant impact to 
migratory corridors and habitat linkages. 
e) 
Less than Significant Impact. The project would require the removal of two (2) trees and 
the trimming of a third tree for construction and access. The trees to be removed include a 
native coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia) and a dead tree of unknown species (see Table 2, 
below) located at the top of the southern bank in the mixed ornamental woodland. The tree 
to be trimmed is a non-native, invasive blackwood acacia. The coast live oak to be removed 
does not qualify as a Heritage tree per the City of San Mateo tree ordinance, as it has a DBH 
of 6.2 inches, which is under the 10-inch DBH threshold. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
100 of 662

--- page 101 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
42 
The project will incorporate native tree planting into the stream enhancements located 
downstream of the project site on the Poplar Creek Golf Course. Table 2 below provides a 
summary of the proposed tree removal. 
Table 2. Summary of Tree Removal 
SPECIES 
SCIENTIFIC NAME 
NATIVE 
HEALTH 
QUANTITY 
Coast 
live oak 
Quercus agrifolia 
Yes 
Alive 
1 
Unknown 
N/A 
N/A 
Dead 
1 
While the impacts under CEQA would be less than significant, and the coast live oak 
proposed for removal does not meet the definition of a heritage tree per the City’s tree 
ordinance, the RWQCB has requested that additional trees be planted as part of the stream 
enhancement. 
f) 
No Impact. There is no Habitat Conservation Plan that applies to projects in the City or 
County of San Mateo. As such, no impacts would occur.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
101 of 662

--- page 102 ---
Bypass Pipe
Site Parking and Staging Area
Cofferdam
Channel
Replacement
Cofferdam
Trash Capture Devices
Weir
Weir
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\BRTR\Figure 5. Project Impacts.mxd
Project Area (0.08 ac.)
Project Components
Permanent Impacts
Temporary Impacts
Tree Removal
Top of Bank (0.04 ac.)
Sensitive Communities
Intermittent Stream - OHWM
(0.03 ac.)
Non-Sensitive Communities
Developed (0.02 ac.)
Mixed Ornamental
Woodland (<0.01 ac.)
Ruderal Upland (0.03 ac.)
Sources: Google Earth May 2018 Aerial, 2010 ARRA LiDAR, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 10/1/2021
Figure 7.
Project Impacts
0
20
10
Feet
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project 
City of San Mateo  
43 
    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
      January March 2022 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
102 of 662

--- page 103 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
44 
V. 
CULTURAL RESOURCES — Would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
No Impact 
a) 
Cause a substantial adverse change in the 
significance of a historical resource pursuant to 
Section 15064.5? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Cause a substantial adverse change in the 
significance of an archaeological resource pursuant 
to Section 15064.5? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Disturb any human remains, including those interred 
outside of formal cemeteries? 
 
 
 
 
The following analysis of cultural resource impacts is based on a report compiled by Tom Origer & 
Associates in October 2021. This report contains confidential information; therefore, this report will 
be on file with the City of San Mateo and will not be published as a part of this IS/MND. 
Environmental Setting 
Research on the project site was conducted at the Northwest Information Center (NWIC File 
No. 21-0231) of the California Historical Information System (CHRIS), and additional documents and 
maps pertinent to the project were reviewed on file at the Tom Origer & Associates offices. The Area 
of Potential Effect (APE) is in the City of San Mateo. The APE consists of two (2) areas, a 0.13-acre 
area within the Poplar Creek channel on the corner of Poplar Avenue and North Bayshore Boulevard, 
and a 0.04-acre mitigation area adjacent to the Poplar Creek channel within the Poplar Creek Golf 
Course.  
Geology within the APE is comprised of reclaimed land and artificial fill.38 Soils within the APE belong 
to the Urban land-Orthents series, which is found on areas that were once a part of the San Francisco 
Bay and adjacent tidal flats that have been filled. Historically, this soil series was used for homesite, 
urban, and recreational development.39 
Pursuant to State CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.5, the City’s General Plan was consulted to 
identify any National, State, or Local historical landmarks with the project site. Review of historic 
registers and inventories indicate that three (3) listed historical resources are located within 0.25 mile 
of the APE. These resources are two (2) buildings that have no potential to extend into the APE and 
one (1) shellmound. The NWIC base maps and files showed that there are no resources recorded 
 
38 Graymer, R., B. Moring, G. Saucedo, C. Wentworth, E. Brabb, and K. Knudsen, 2006, Geologic Map of the San Francisco 
Bay Region. U.S. Geological Survey. California Geological Survey. 
39 Kashiwagi, J. and L. Hokholt, 1991, Soil Survey of San Mateo County, California. U.S. Department of Agriculture in 
cooperation with the University of California Agricultural Experimental Station. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
103 of 662

--- page 104 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
45 
within the APE. Based on the environmental setting there is a very low potential for prehistoric sites 
to be found within the APE. 
Based on criteria derived from Meyer and Rosenthal, the potential for the presence of surface 
prehistoric and buried archaeological sites throughout the project site is very low.40 
Based on review of historical maps and aerial photos, the golf course where the APE is located was 
built in 1933, during the Great Depression by the Works Progress Administration (WPA). It has the 
potential to be eligible for the National Register under criterion A (see Discussion of Impacts below). 
Regulatory Setting 
Federal and state criteria have been established for the determination of historical resource 
significance as defined in National Register (NR) criteria contained in National Register Bulletin 16 
(U.S. Department of the Interior 1986:1) and for the purposes of CEQA under Section 5024.1(g) of 
the Public Resource Code and Section 15064.5 of the State CEQA Guidelines.  
National Historic Preservation Act 
The National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) applies to certain projects undertaken requiring 
approval by federal agencies. Property owners, planners, developers, as well as State and local 
agencies are responsible for complying with NHPA’s requirements regarding the identification and 
treatment of historic and prehistoric cultural resources. Under NHPA, cultural resources must be 
evaluated to determine their eligibility for listing in the NR. If an archaeological resource is 
determined ineligible for listing on the NR, then the resource is released from management 
responsibilities and a project can proceed without further cultural resource considerations.  
The project site was evaluated for eligibility for listing on the NRHP per the four (4) criteria 
established in 36 CFR 60.4. As set forth in Title 36, Part 63 of the Code of Federal Regulations, for 
a cultural resource to be deemed significant under the NHPA and thus eligible for listing on the NR, 
it must meet at least one (1) of the following criteria: 
(A)  
Associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns 
of our history; or 
(B)  
Associated with the lives of persons significant in our past; or 
(C)  
Embodies distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of construction, or 
that represent the work of a master, or that possess high artistic values, or that 
represent a significant and distinguishable entity whose components may lack 
individual distinction; or 
(D)  
Yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in prehistory or history. 
 
40 Meyer, J. and J. Rosenthal. 2017. Geoarchaeological Overview of the Nine Bay Area Counties in Caltrans District 4. 
Documentation S-33600 on file at the Northwest Information Center, Sonoma State University, Rohnert Park. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
104 of 662

--- page 105 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
46 
Furthermore, in order to be considered eligible for listing on the NR, a property must retain aspects 
of integrity, or its ability to convey its historical significance. These aspects are as follows: Location, 
Design, Setting, Materials, Workmanship, Feeling, and Association. 
California Environmental Quality Act 
CEQA applies to certain projects undertaken requiring approval by State and/or local agencies. 
Under CEQA, cultural resources must be evaluated to determine their eligibility for listing in the 
California Register of Historic Resources (CRHR). If a cultural resource is determined ineligible for 
listing on the CRHR the resource is released from management responsibilities and a project can 
proceed without further cultural resource considerations. 
As set forth in Section 5024.1(c) of the Public Resources Code for a cultural resource to be deemed 
“important” under CEQA and thus eligible for listing on CRHR, it must meet at least one (1) of the 
following criteria: 
(1)  
Associated with events that have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns 
of California History and cultural heritage; or 
(2)   
Associated with the lives of persons important to our past; or 
(3)  
Embodies the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, region, or method of 
construction, or represents the work of an important creative individual, or possess 
high artistic value; or 
(4)   
Has yielded or is likely to yield, information important to prehistory or history.  
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
Less than Significant Impact. Based on the findings of the Tom Origer & Associates Report, 
the Poplar Creek Golf Course has the potential for inclusion on the National Register and 
California Register of Historic Resources due to the fact that it is associated with events that 
have made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of local or regional history, or the 
cultural heritage of California or the United States.  The Poplar Creek Golf Course was 
constructed in 1933 by the WPA as a project to help alleviate the financial impact of the Great 
Depression. The golf course has been in operation since that time and as such is also a piece 
of the cultural heritage of the area.  
Although the proposed project would be taking place within a site that has the potential for 
inclusion in the historic databases, the proposed activities would not cause a substantial 
adverse change to the resource. The proposed project would install a trash capture device 
within Poplar Creek, which flows through the golf course, but is not part of the golf course. 
Additionally, the area where the trash capture device would be installed is outside out the 
field of play. The trash capture device would be installed in an area where only maintenance 
and city workers have access.  
The stream enhancement area would be located more directly within the playable golf course 
area. The location area was selected for its remoteness on the course; however, it is possible 
that historic resources could be encountered during planting. Implementation of Mitigation 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
105 of 662

--- page 106 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
47 
Measures CULT-1 in Impact b) below would ensure that any impacts to these resources 
would remain less than significant. 
b) 
Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. The project site has a very 
low sensitivity for archaeological resources. Historically, the project site was part of the 
waters of the San Francisco Bay.  As such, there is a low sensitivity for encountering either 
prehistoric or historic-era archaeological resources. Additionally, all proposed project 
improvements would occur within existing disturbed areas and no improvements would 
require additional large-scale excavation. The previous construction activity would likely have 
reduced or eliminated the significance of archaeological resources if they were encountered. 
In the unlikely event that archaeological resources are found during project activities, the 
following mitigation measure will ensure that it is preserved: 
Impact CULT-1: Implementation of the project could result in impacts to buried prehistoric 
or historical archaeological deposit.  
Mitigation Measure CULT-1: If previously unidentified historic resources are 
encountered during project implementation, the contractor shall avoid altering the 
materials and their stratigraphic context. A qualified professional archaeologist shall 
be contacted to evaluate the situation. Project personnel should not collect cultural 
resources. Historic resources include stone or abode foundations or walls; structures 
and remains with square nails; and refuse deposits or bottle dumps, often located in 
old wells or privies. The City or its contractor shall comply with California Health and 
Safety Code Section 7050.5 and California Public Resources Code Sections 5097.5, 
5097.9 et seq., regarding the discovery and disturbance of cultural materials, should 
any be discovered during project construction.  
If archaeological remains are uncovered, work at the place of discovery shall be halted 
immediately until a qualified archaeologist can evaluate the finds (§15064.5 [f]). Prehistoric 
archaeological site indicators include obsidian and chert flakes and chipped stone tools; 
grinding and mashing implements (e.g., slabs and handstones, and mortars and pestles); 
bedrock outcrops and boulders with mortar cups; and locally darkened midden soils. Midden 
soils may contain a combination of any of the previously listed items with the possible addition 
of bone and shell remains, and fire affected stones. Historic period site indicators generally 
include fragments of glass, ceramic, and metal objects; milled and split lumber; and structure 
and feature remains such as building foundations and discrete trash deposits (e.g., wells, 
privy pits, dumps).  
c) 
Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. There are no formal 
cemeteries on the site, nor are human remains likely to exist on the site. However, there is 
the potential for the discovery of human remains on the project site during ground disturbance 
activities. Implementation of Mitigation Measure CULT-2 would allow for timely identification, 
analysis, and documentation of any human remains. Therefore, impact related to the 
destruction of human remains would be mitigated to a less-than-significant level. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
106 of 662

--- page 107 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
48 
Impact CULT-2: Project construction activities could result in impacts to previous 
undiscovered human remains. 
Mitigation Measure CULT-2: If human remains are discovered during excavation 
and/or grading of the site, all activity within a 50-foot radius of the find shall be 
stopped. The San Mateo County Coroner shall be notified and make a determination 
as to whether the remains are of Native American origin or whether an investigation 
into the cause of death is required. If the remains are determined to be Native 
American, the Coroner will notify the Native American Heritage Commission (NAHC) 
immediately. Once the NAHC identifies the most likely descendants, the descendants 
will make recommendations regarding proper burial, which will be implemented in 
accordance with Section 15064.5(e) of the CEQA Guidelines. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
107 of 662

--- page 108 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
49 
VI. 
ENERGY — Would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
No Impact 
a) 
Result in potentially significant environmental 
impact due to wasteful, inefficient, or 
unnecessary 
consumption 
of 
energy 
resources, during project construction or 
operation? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Conflict with or obstruct a state or local plan 
for renewable energy or energy efficiency? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
Energy usage is typically quantified using the British thermal unit (BTU). As a point of reference, the 
approximate amount of energy contained in common energy sources are as follows: gasoline, 
115,000 BTUs per gallon; diesel, 138,500 BTUs per gallon; natural gas, 21,000 BTUs per pound (lb); 
electricity, 3,414 BTUs per kilowatt-hour (kWh).41  
Total energy usage in California was 7,967 trillion BTUs in 2018, which equates to an average of 
202 million BTUs per capita. Of California’s total energy usage, the breakdown by sector is 
39.4 percent transportation, 23.1 percent industrial, 18.7 percent residential, and 18.8 percent 
commercial. Natural gas is California’s primary source of electric power, followed by 
nonhydroelectric renewables, nuclear, and hydroelectric sources.42 
Given the nature of the proposed project, the only use of energy would occur via construction vehicle 
fuel and fuel utilized by device maintenance vehicles. The trash capture device would not require 
any energy to operate and would not tie into the City of San Mateo utility system. All construction 
would occur during daylight hours. No artificial light sources would be necessary.  
Regulatory Setting 
Federal and state agencies regulate energy use and consumption through various means and 
programs. At the federal level, the United States Department of Transportation (DOT), the United 
States Department of Energy (DOE), and U.S. EPA are three (3) federal agencies with substantial 
influence over energy policies and programs. Generally, federal agencies influence and regulate 
transportation energy consumption through establishment and enforcement of fuel economy 
 
41 U.S. Department of Energy, 2021. Alternative Fuels Data Center – Fuel Properties Comparison. 
http://www.afdc.energy.gov/fuels/fuel_comparison_chart.pdf 
42 US Energy Information Administration. 2021. California State Profile and Energy Estimates. Available at: 
https://www.eia.gov/state/?sid=CA#tabs-4 Accessed on July 2, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
108 of 662

--- page 109 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
50 
standards for automobiles and light trucks, through funding of energy-related research and 
development projects, and through funding for transportation infrastructure improvements.  
At the state level, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) and the California Energy 
Commission (CEC) are two (2) agencies with authority over different aspects of energy. The CPUC 
regulates privately owned utilities in the energy, rail, telecommunications, and water fields. The CEC 
collects and analyzes energy-related data, prepares statewide energy policy recommendations and 
plans, promotes, and funds energy efficiency programs, and adopts and enforces appliance and 
building energy efficiency standards. California is exempt under federal law from rules that otherwise 
would preempt setting state fuel economy standards for new on-road motor vehicles. Some of the 
more relevant federal and state energy-related laws and plans are discussed below. 
Senate Bill (SB) 1389 requires the CEC to prepare a biennial integrated energy policy report that 
assesses major energy trends and issues facing the State’s electricity, natural gas, and 
transportation fuel sectors and provides policy recommendations to conserve resources; protect the 
environment; ensure reliable, secure, and diverse energy supplies; enhance the State’s economy; 
and protect public health and safety. 
The 2020 Integrated Energy Policy Report is the most recent update. The State’s energy system 
includes energy extraction, transport, conversion (such as combusting natural gas in power plants 
to generate electricity or producing gasoline and diesel from crude oil in refineries), and consumption 
for services (such as electricity for lighting, natural gas use in homes and buildings for space and 
water heating, pumping water to communities and crops, and gasoline and diesel to fuel cars and 
trucks), as well as electricity from out of-State plants serving California. In 2019, the State consumed 
approximately 3.8 billion gallons of diesel. 
Federal 
Energy Policy Act of 2005 
Passed by Congress in July 2005, the Energy Policy Act includes a comprehensive set of provisions 
to address energy issues. The act includes tax incentives for the following: energy conservation 
improvements in commercial and residential buildings; fossil fuel production and clean coal facilities; 
and construction and operation of nuclear power plants, among other things. Subsidies are also 
included for geothermal, wind energy, and other alternative energy producers. It directs the DOE to 
study and report on alternative energy sources such as wave and tidal power and includes funding 
for hydrogen research. The Act also increases the amount of ethanol required to be blended with 
gasoline and extends daylight saving time (to begin earlier in spring and end later in fall) to reduce 
lighting requirements. It also requires the federal vehicle fleet to maximize use of alternative fuels. 
The Act further includes provisions for expediting construction of major energy transmission 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
109 of 662

--- page 110 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
51 
corridors, such as high-voltage power lines, and fossil fuel transmission pipelines. These are just a 
few examples of the provisions contained in the Act.43  
Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 
Signed into law in December 2007, this broad energy bill included an increase in auto mileage 
standards, and also addressed biofuels, conservation measures, and building efficiency. The U.S. 
EPA administers the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) program, which determines vehicle 
manufacturers’ compliance with existing fuel economy standards. The bill amended the CAFE 
standards to mandate significant improvements in fuel efficiency (i.e., average fleet wide fuel 
economy of 35 miles per gallon (mpg) by 2020, versus the previous standard of 27.5 mpg for 
passenger cars and 22.2 mpg for light trucks).44  
Another provision includes a mandate to increase use of ethanol and other renewable fuels by 36 
billion gallons by 2022, of which 21 million gallons is to include advanced biofuels, largely cellulosic 
ethanol, that have 50 to 60 percent lower greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The bill also includes 
establishment of a new energy block grant program for use by local governments in implementing 
energy-efficiency initiatives, as well as a variety of green building incentives and programs, among 
other things.45 
State 
Energy Action Plan 
In 2003, the three (3) key energy agencies in California—the CEC, the California Power Authority 
(CPA), and the CPUC— jointly adopted an Energy Action Plan (EAP) that listed goals for California’s 
energy future and set forth a commitment to achieve these goals through specific actions. In 2005, 
the CPUC and the CEC jointly prepared the EAP II to identify the further actions necessary to meet 
California’s future energy needs. The EAP II describes the priority sequence for actions to address 
increasing energy needs, also known as “loading order.” The loading order identifies energy 
efficiency and demand response as the state’s preferred means of meeting growing energy needs. 
After cost-effective efficiency and demand response, the state is to rely on renewable sources of 
power and distributed generation, such as combined heat and power applications. To the extent that 
efficiency, demand response, renewable resources, and distributed generation are unable to satisfy 
increasing energy and capacity needs, the EAP II supports the use of clean and efficient fossil 
fuel-fired generation.  
In 2008, the CPUC and CEC released an Energy Action Plan Update using information and analysis 
prepared for the Energy Commission’s 2007 Integrated Energy Policy Report (IEPR). The Update 
 
43 United States Congress, Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-58), passed July 29, 2005. 
https://www.congress.gov/bill/109th-congress/house-bill/6 
44 EPA. 2007. Summary of the Energy Independence and Security Act. Available online at: https://www.epa.gov/laws-
regulations/summary-energy-independence-and-security-act 
45 Ibid 33 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
110 of 662

--- page 111 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
52 
was partially written in response to the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 (discussed 
below), intended to keep the EAP I and EAP II process alive while capturing changes in the policy 
landscape and describing intended activities to accomplish those policies. The focus areas included: 
energy efficiency, demand response, renewable energy, electricity reliability and infrastructure, 
electricity market structure, natural gas supply and infrastructure, research and development, and 
climate change.46  
The EAP identifies key actions to be taken in all these areas in order to meet the state’s growing 
energy requirements. The plan recommendations are implemented by the governor through 
executive orders, by the legislature through new statutes, and by the responsible state agencies 
through regulations and programs.  
Title 24 (California Energy Code) 
The California Energy Code (Title 24, Part 6, of the California Code of Regulations, California’s 
Energy Efficiency Standards for Residential and Nonresidential Buildings), provides energy 
conservation standards for all new and renovated commercial and residential buildings constructed 
in California. The provisions of the California Energy Code apply to the building envelope, 
space-conditioning systems, and water-heating and lighting systems of buildings and appliances; 
they also give guidance on construction techniques to maximize energy conservation. Minimum 
efficiency standards are given for a variety of building elements, including appliances; water and 
space heating and cooling equipment; and insulation for doors, pipes, walls, and ceilings. The CEC 
adopted the 2005 changes to the Building Efficiency Standards, which emphasized saving energy 
at peak periods and seasons, and improving the quality of installation of energy-efficiency measures. 
It is estimated that implementation of the 2005 Title 24 standards have resulted in an increased 
energy savings of 8.5 percent relative to the previous Title 24 standards. Compliance with Title 24 
standards is verified and enforced through the local building permit process.47 The 2008 Title 24 
Standards, which had an effective date beginning August 1, 2009, include added provisions that 
require, for example, “cool roofs” on commercial buildings; increased efficiency in heating, 
ventilating, and air conditioning systems; and increased use of skylights and more efficient lighting 
systems.48 Title 24 Standards were further updated with the 2013 Building Energy Efficiency 
Standards, which are estimated to lead to 25 percent less energy consumption for residential 
buildings and 30 percent savings for nonresidential buildings over 2008 Energy Standards. 
2013 standards, which updated codes for lighting, space heating and cooling, ventilation, and water 
heating, took effect on July 1, 2014.  
 
46 State of California, Energy Commission and Public Utilities Commission, “Energy Action Plan 2008 Update,” February 
2008. 
http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/uploadedFiles/CPUC_Public_Website/Content/Utilities_and_Industries/Energy_-
_Electricity_and_Natural_Gas/2008%20Energy%20Action%20Plan%20Update.pdf  
47 California Energy Commission (2016) Web site (Building Efficiency Standards), http://www.energy.ca.gov/title24 
48 Ibid. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
111 of 662

--- page 112 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
53 
California Green Building Standards Code 
All new construction must adhere to the California Green Building Standards Code (CCR, Title 24, 
Part 11) in place at the time of construction. As an example, the 2013 Title 24 California Green 
Building Standards, referred to as CALGreen:  
• 
Sets a threshold of a 20 percent reduction in indoor water use and includes voluntary goals 
for reductions of 30 percent, 35 percent, and 40 percent.  
• 
Requires separate meters for indoor and outdoor water use at nonresidential buildings; and 
at those sites, irrigation systems for larger landscaped areas must be moisture-sensing.  
• 
Calls for 50 percent of construction waste to be diverted from the landfills and lists higher, 
voluntary diversion amounts of 65 percent to 75 percent for new homes, and 80 percent for 
commercial construction.  
• 
Mandates inspections of energy systems -- such as the heat furnace, air conditioning, and 
mechanical equipment -- for nonresidential buildings that are larger than 10,000 square feet 
to "ensure that all are working at their maximum capacity according to design efficiencies."  
• 
Requires that paint, carpet, vinyl flooring, particle board, and other interior finish materials be 
low emitting in terms of pollutants.  
California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 
In September 2006, the governor signed AB 32, the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, which 
mandates that California’s GHG emissions be reduced to 1990 levels by 2020. The act directs the 
California EPA to work with state agencies to implement a cap on GHG emissions (primarily carbon 
dioxide [CO2]) from stationary sources of such as electric power generation facilities, and industrial, 
commercial, and waste-disposal sectors. Since CO2 emissions are directly proportional to fossil fuel 
consumption, the cap on emissions is expected to have the incidental effect of forcing a reduction in 
fossil fuel consumption from these stationary sources. Specifically, AB 32 directs the California EPA 
to work with other state agencies to accomplish the following: 1) promulgate and implement GHG 
emissions cap for the electric power, industrial, and commercial sectors through regulations in an 
economically efficient manner; 2) institute a schedule of greenhouse gas reductions; 3) develop an 
enforcement mechanism for reducing GHG; 4) establish a program to track and report GHG 
emissions.49 
Senate Bill 32 
Enacted in 2016, SB 32 codifies the 2030 GHG emissions reduction goal of Executive Order 
B-30--15 by requiring the California Air Resources Board (CARB) to ensure that statewide GHG 
emissions are reduced to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030. Similar to AB 32, a reduction in 
GHG emissions typically corresponds with a reduction in energy usage as the bulk of GHGs result 
 
49 Assembly Bill 32, Passed August 31, 2006, http://www.arb.ca.gov/cc/docs/ab32text.pdf. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
112 of 662

--- page 113 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
54 
from the combustion of fossil fuel.  
SB 32 was coupled with a companion bill: AB 197.50 Designed to improve the transparency of 
CARB’s regulatory and policy-oriented processes, AB 197 created the Joint Legislative Committee 
on Climate Change Policies, a committee with the responsibility to ascertain facts and make 
recommendations to the Legislature concerning statewide programs, policies and investments 
related to climate change. AB 197 also requires CARB to make certain GHG emissions inventory 
data publicly available on its website; consider the social costs of GHG emissions when adopting 
rules and regulations designed to achieve GHG emission reductions; and include specified 
information in all Scoping Plan updates for the emission reduction measures contained therein.  
Discussion of Impacts 
a)  
Less than Significant Impact. The proposed project would require the use of diesel and 
other fuels for trucks and equipment during construction, but these activities would be 
short-term and completed as efficiently as possible for practical and financial reasons. The 
operation of the project would consume energy from maintenance trucks that would remove 
accumulated trash from the capture device two (2) to three (3) times a year and maintain the 
stream enhancement area. Given the important pollutant control functions of the trash 
capture device, the relatively minor amount of energy used to maintain the device is not 
wasteful, inefficient, or unnecessary. Therefore, the trash capture device would result in 
less-than-significant impacts.  
b) 
Less than Significant Impact. The project would install a passive trash capture device in 
Poplar Creek and enhance vegetation along the creek’s banks. As described above, the 
proposed project would not result in wasteful, inefficient, or unnecessary consumption of 
energy during any project phase. Electricity demands on-site would be substantially the same 
as under existing conditions, will not increase over time, and will be adequately served by 
the current provider. Therefore, the project would not conflict with state or local plan for 
renewable energy or energy efficiency. Impacts would be less-than-significant.  
 
 
 
50 
Assembly 
Bill 
No. 
197. 
State 
Air 
Resources 
Board: 
greenhouse 
gases: 
regulations, 
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201520160AB197, accessed August 16, 
2021.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
113 of 662

--- page 114 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
55 
VI. 
GEOLOGY AND SOILS — Would the 
project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No Impact 
a) 
Directly or indirectly cause potential substantial adverse effects, including the risk of loss, 
injury, or death involving: 
i)  Rupture of a known earthquake fault, 
as delineated on the most recent 
Alquist-Priolo 
Earthquake 
Fault 
Zoning Map issued by the State 
Geologist for the area or based on 
other substantial evidence of a known 
fault?  
 
 
 
 
ii) Strong seismic ground shaking? 
 
 
 
 
iii) Seismic-related 
ground 
failure, 
including liquefaction? 
 
 
 
 
iv) Landslides? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Result in substantial soil erosion or the 
loss of topsoil? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Be located on a geologic unit or soil that is 
unstable, or that would become unstable 
as a result of the project, and potentially 
result in on- or off-site landslide, lateral 
spreading, subsidence, liquefaction, or 
collapse? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Be located on expansive soil, as defined in 
Table 18-1-B of the Uniform Building 
Code, creating substantial direct or indirect 
risks to life or property? 
 
 
 
 
e) 
Have soils incapable of adequately 
supporting the use of septic tanks or 
alternative wastewater disposal systems 
where sewers are not available for the 
disposal of wastewater? 
 
 
 
 
f)  
Directly or indirectly destroy a unique 
paleontological resource or site or unique 
geologic feature? 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
114 of 662

--- page 115 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
56 
Environmental Setting 
Regional Setting  
The project site lies within the Coast Ranges geomorphic province of California. Regional 
topography within the Coast Ranges province is characterized by northwest-southeast trending 
mountain ridges and intervening valleys that parallel the major geologic structures, including the San 
Andreas Fault System. The province is also generally characterized by abundant landsliding and 
erosion, owing in part to its typically high levels of precipitation and seismic activity.  
Earthquake Hazards 
Earthquakes are the product of the build-up and sudden release of strain along a “fault” or zone of 
weakness in the earth's crust. Stored energy may be released as soon as it is generated, or it may 
be accumulated and stored for long periods of time. Faults are seldom single cracks in the earth's 
crust but are typically comprised of localized shear zones which link together to form larger fault 
zones. Within the Bay Area, faults are concentrated along the San Andreas fault system, which 
extends nearly 700 miles along a northwest trend from Mexico to offshore northern California. The 
movement between rock formations along either side of a fault may be horizontal, vertical, or a 
combination and is radiated outward in the form of energy waves. The amplitude and frequency of 
earthquake ground motions partially depends on the material through which it is moving. The 
earthquake force is transmitted through hard rock in short, rapid vibrations, while this energy 
becomes a long, high-amplitude motion when moving through soft ground materials, such as Bay 
Mud.  
Liquefaction 
Liquefaction occurs when a saturated or partially saturated soil substantially loses strength and 
stiffness in response to an applied stress, such as seismic shaking, which causes a solid to behave 
like a liquid. Soils susceptible to liquefaction are saturated, loose, granular deposits. Liquefaction 
can result in flow failure, lateral spreading, ground movement, settlement, and other related effects. 
Buried pipelines embedded within liquefied soils may also experience uplift due to buoyancy.   
Landslides 
Landslides are frequently triggered by strong ground motions. They are an important secondary 
earthquake hazard. The term landslide includes a wide range of ground movement, such as rock 
falls, deep failure of slopes, and shallow debris flows. Landslides from seismic activity are a very low 
risk at the project site given its flat topography and general lack of slopes, cliffs, or flowing water.  
An “active” fault is one that shows displacement within the last 11,000 years (i.e., Holocene) and has 
a reported average slip rate greater than 0.1 millimeters w per year. The California Division of Mines 
and Geology has mapped various active and inactive faults in the region. The nearest known active 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
115 of 662

--- page 116 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
57 
faults to the site are the San Andreas and Hayward Faults, which are approximately two (2) miles 
west and 14 miles northeast of the City of San Mateo respectively.51  
Local Setting 
The project site is located immediately west of San Francisco Bay. Work would occur within Poplar 
Creek, a concrete-lined, intermittent channel, and on surrounding golf course lands. Regional 
geologic mapping indicates that the site is underlain by artificial fill over Bay Mud.52 The site is 
underlain by urban land-Orthents, reclaimed complex, 0 to 2 percent slopes soils.53 These soils are 
characteristic of artificial fill.  
The project site, like all properties in the San Francisco Bay area, is situated in a seismically active 
area. In the San Francisco Bay Area, the San Andreas fault system includes the San Andreas, 
Hayward, Calaveras, and other related faults in the San Francisco Bay area. According to the U.S. 
Geological Survey, there is a 62 percent chance of at least a magnitude 6.7 (or greater) earthquake 
in the San Francisco Bay region between 2003 and 2032.54 
The project site is not located within a State of California Earthquake Fault Zone for active faulting 
and no active faults are mapped on the property. The San Andreas Fault is located approximately 
3.9 miles southwest of the site whereas the Hayward Fault is located approximately 14.4 miles to 
the northeast.55 
Discussion of Impacts 
a-i,) 
No Impact. The project site is not located within an Alquist-Priolo Earthquake Fault Zone, as 
there are none within the City of San Mateo.56 Earthquake fault zones are regulatory zones 
that encompass surface traces of active faults that have a potential for future surface fault 
rupture. The closet active faults to the site are the San Andreas Fault, located approximately 
3.9 miles to the southwest of the project site at its closest point, and the Hayward Fault, 
approximately 14.4 miles northeast at its closest point. No faults cross through the project 
 
51 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo, 
Draft 
Environmental 
Impact 
Report 
– 
4.7 
Geology 
and 
Soils, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/5217/4_7-Geology-Soils?bidId=, accessed August 2, 2021. 
52 
United 
States 
Geologic 
Service, 
Geologic 
map 
of 
San 
Mateo 
County, 
California, 
https://ngmdb.usgs.gov/Prodesc/proddesc_49.htm, accessed August 2, 2021. 
53 UC Davis, SoilWeb, https://casoilresource.lawr.ucdavis.edu/gmap/, accessed August 3, 2021. 
54 U.S. Geological Survey, Earthquake Probabilities in the San Francisco Bay Region: 2002 – 2031, 
https://pubs.usgs.gov/of/2003/of03-214/, accessed August 9, 2021. 
55 
California 
Department 
of 
Conservation, 
Earthquake 
Zones 
of 
Required 
Investigation, 
https://maps.conservation.ca.gov/cgs/EQZApp/app/, accessed August 2, 2021.  
56 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo, 
Draft 
Environmental 
Impact 
Report 
– 
4.7 
Geology 
and 
Soils, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/5217/4_7-Geology-Soils?bidId=, accessed August 2, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
116 of 662

--- page 117 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
58 
site, and surface rupture associated with a fault is not anticipated in the City. No impacts 
would occur. 
a-ii) 
Less than Significant Impact. There would be potential for “violent” seismic ground-shaking 
at the project site according to ABAG’s Resilience Program hazards map.57 The project site 
proximity to two (2) active bay site faults (San Andreas and Hayward) leaves it vulnerable to 
ground shaking, which is common in the Bay Area. The proposed project would not create a 
need or opportunity for people to reside on-site and thus be exposed to such ground shaking 
long-term. If an earthquake were to occur during the construction phase, it could create a risk 
for workers on-site, but under the obligation of the Occupational Safety and Health Act 
(OSHA), construction workers would be trained to take the necessary precautions to maintain 
worker safety in the event of an earthquake. The only risk created to workers on-site during 
the operational phase would be during trash capture device maintenance and stream 
enhancement area monitoring. Workers on-site would also be trained according to OSHA 
regulations. The trash capture device itself would be designed to conform to the most recent 
edition of the California Building Code with flexible connections and California Building Code 
(CBC) design features. Therefore, the impacts related to this topic would be less than 
significant. 
 a-iii) 
Less than Significant Impact. According to ABAG’s Resilience Program hazards map, the 
project site has a very high susceptibility to liquefaction.58 The project would conform to the 
standard engineering and building practices and techniques specified in the CBC. The project 
plan would meet the requirements of appropriate Site Development Codes, as adopted by 
the City of San Mateo. In addition, the proposed trash capture device would be constructed 
only at a depth of 5.5 inches under the existing concrete channel, which would be at the 
aggregate base that is used to support the channel.59 Therefore, the existing aggregate base 
would support the trash capture device and would not be subject to hazards from liquefaction. 
Impacts would be less than significant.   
a-iv)  Less than Significant Impact. The project is subject to all federal, state, and local 
regulations and standards for seismic conditions, including the CBC, and would be designed 
to conform to all building requirements. According to ABAG’s Resilience Program hazards 
map, the project site is located on flat land and is not susceptible to landslides. Given the low 
 
57Association 
of 
Bay 
Area 
Governments, 
MTC/ABAG 
Hazard 
Viewer 
Map, 
https://mtc.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=4a6f3f1259df42eab29b35dfcd086fc8, 
accessed August 2, 2021. 
58 
Association 
of 
Bay 
Area 
Governments, 
MTC/ABAG 
Hazard 
Viewer 
Map, 
https://mtc.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=4a6f3f1259df42eab29b35dfcd086fc8, 
accessed August 2, 2021. 
59 Email communication from Stephanie Gindlesperger, Senior Engineer at City of San Mateo, with 
confirmation from Matt Zucca, Deputy Director of Public Works at City of San Mateo. December 21, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
117 of 662

--- page 118 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
59 
risk of landslides at the project site and the legal obligations associated with seismic building 
design, impacts associated with seismic landslides would be less than significant. 
b) 
Less than Significant Impact. Construction would involve limited soil disturbance during 
grading of the staging area, which could temporarily expose soils to wind and water erosion. 
Additional soil disturbance would occur during planting of the stream enhancement area. 
Plantings would be installed using hand tools or augers and would not disturb substantial 
topsoil areas. The project would not cause a substantial change to erosion and accretion 
patterns of the area long-term because the trash capture device installation and stream 
enhancement would not alter the existing drainage pattern of the area. Temporary 
construction impacts related to run-off during site grading would occur, but standard 
measures from the City of San Mateo Municipal and Site Development Codes as well as 
from the Regional Water Board’s Section 401 Water Quality Certification would be 
implemented to ensure impacts from runoff would remain less than significant. Additionally, 
there would be no disturbance of native topsoil, as construction activities would take place 
mainly within existing paved roads. In addition, the soil in the area is non-native fill material. 
Impacts on soil would therefore be less than significant. 
c, d) 
Less than Significant Impact. The potential for geologic and soil hazards from unstable or 
expansive soils in the project site is considered low based on the geologic units, soil types, 
and flat topography discussed previously60. The ground disturbance associated with the 
proposed project would cause minimal soil disturbance and these actions would not result in 
substantial changes in topography, ground surface relief features, or geologic substructures. 
The trash capture device itself would be integrated into the concrete lining of Poplar Creek 
and would not affect soil conditions. Furthermore, the project is subject to all Federal, State, 
and local regulations and standards for seismic conditions including CBC and would be 
designed to conform to all building requirements. The stream enhancement area would not 
substantially impact soil conditions. Therefore, the proposed project’s impacts would not 
destabilize the soil or expose human life or structures to increased risk of on- or off-site 
landslide, lateral spreading, subsidence, liquefaction, or collapse. Therefore, impacts would 
be less than significant.  
e) 
No Impact. The project does not involve construction of septic tanks or alternative 
wastewater disposal systems. There would be no impact.  
f)  
Less than Significant Impact. The project site consists of concrete-lined portions of Poplar 
Creek, surrounding previously disturbed areas, and golf course lands. Grading of the staging 
area and minimal concrete excavation would be required, but any disturbed areas would be 
non-native fill and are unlikely to contain any paleontological resources. The ground 
disturbance associated with the project would not change the topography or geologic 
 
60 UC Davis, SoilWeb, https://casoilresource.lawr.ucdavis.edu/gmap/, accessed August 3, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
118 of 662

--- page 119 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
60 
substructures of the vicinity and would therefore not change any unique geologic features. 
Impacts would be less than significant. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
119 of 662

--- page 120 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
61 
VII. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS — Would 
the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No Impact 
a) 
Generate greenhouse gas emissions, either 
directly or indirectly, that may have a significant 
impact on the environment? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Conflict with any applicable plan, policy, or 
regulation of an agency adopted for the purpose 
of reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
GHGs are recognized by wide consensus among the scientific community to contribute to global 
warming/climate change and associated environmental impacts. The major GHGs released from 
human activity are CO2, methane, and nitrous oxide.61 The primary sources of GHGs are vehicles 
(including planes and trains), energy plants, and industrial and agricultural activities (such as dairies 
and hog farms). 
In the United States, the main source of GHG emissions is electricity generation, followed by 
transportation.62 In California, however, transportation sources (including passenger cars, light-duty 
trucks, other trucks, buses, and motorcycles) are the largest contributors of GHG emissions.63 The 
dominant GHG emitted is CO2, mostly from fossil fuel combustion.  
In 2017, total CO2 emissions in the City of San Mateo were 541,960 metric tons (MT) CO2 equivalent 
(CO2e). This represents an 18 percent decrease relative to 2005 levels.64 The largest source of these 
emissions was on-road transportation.  
 
61Governor’s Office of Planning and Research. 2008 CEQA AND CLIMATE CHANGE: Addressing Climate Change 
Through California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Review. Available at: https://opr.ca.gov/docs/june08-ceqa.pdf 
Accessed on July 2, 2021 
62 U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Emissions. U.S. Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report: 1990-2014. Available at: 
https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/us-greenhouse-gas-inventory-report-1990-2014 Accessed on: August 24, 2020 
63 
California 
Air 
Resources 
Board. 
GHG 
Current 
California 
Emission 
Inventory 
Data. 
Available 
at: 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/ghg-inventory-data Accessed on August 24, 2020 
64 City of San Mateo, 2020 Climate Action Plan, https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/80652/2020-
Climate-Action-Plan?bidId=, accessed August 5, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
120 of 662

--- page 121 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
62 
Regulatory Setting 
State 
Assembly Bill 32 
Assembly Bill (AB) 32, adopted in 2006, established the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 which 
requires the State to reduce GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020.  
Senate Bill 32 
On September 8, 2016, the governor signed SB 32 into law, extending AB 32 by requiring the State 
to further reduce GHG emissions to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030. 
Senate Bill 97 
SB 97, adopted in 2007, required the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research to develop CEQA 
guidelines “for the mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions or the effects of greenhouse gas 
emissions,” and the Resources Agency certified and adopted the amendments to the guidelines on 
December 30, 2009. 
Local 
2020 Climate Action Plan 
In 2020, the City of San Mateo adopted its Climate Action Plan as a strategy to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions, as directed by the City’s General Plan. The Climate Action Plan sets GHG emissions 
reductions targets and goals for 2020, 2030, and 2050 that are consistent with the overall state 
reduction targets. The 2020 plan is a direct update of the 2015 CAP and analyzes the progress that 
the City has made in meeting its GHG reduction targets as well as updates information to achieve 
more significant and long-term reductions. The Climate Action Plan presents a work plan and 
monitoring program for the City to track progress over time and maintain the status of the Climate 
Action Plan as a qualified GHG reduction strategy. 
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
Less Than Significant Impact. GHG emissions from the project would be produced from 
construction-related equipment emissions. Based on the nature of the project and short 
duration of construction, GHG emissions resulting from construction activities would be both 
minor and temporary. While the project would have an incremental contribution to GHG 
emissions within the City and region, the individual project’s contribution is less than 
significant. During the operational phase, maintenance trucks would be utilized during trash 
removal activities approximately two (2) to three (3) times per year, which results in the 
emission of an incremental and negligible amount of GHGs. The project would not result in 
an increase in electricity usage as the trash rack would not use an electricity. The project 
would not involve the addition of any stationary equipment that would result in GHG 
emissions. For these reasons, the proposed project would result in a less than significant 
impact due to the generation of GHG emissions.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
121 of 662

--- page 122 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
63 
b) 
Less Than Significant Impact. As described above, the proposed project would not result 
in substantial GHG emissions during the construction or operation phase. The proposed 
project would not conflict with an applicable plan, policy, or regulation adopted for the purpose 
of reducing GHG emissions. The City of San Mateo met the 2020 AB 32 reduction targets 
and has developed the CAP to track progress toward future targets. GHG emissions from 
off-road equipment and utility electrical usage are identified and planned for in the 
BAAQMD’s 2017 Clean Air Plan as well as the BAAQMD’s Source Inventory of Bay Area 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions. A primary objective of the 2010 Clean Air Plan is to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020 and 40 percent below 1990 levels by 
2035. The project would generate emissions similar to existing conditions and, therefore, a 
less than significant impact would occur.  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
122 of 662

--- page 123 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
64 
VIII. HAZARDS 
AND 
HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS — Would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No Impact 
a) 
Create a significant hazard to the public or 
the 
environment 
through 
the 
routine 
transport, use, or disposal of hazardous 
materials? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Create a significant hazard to the public or 
the 
environment 
through 
reasonably 
foreseeable upset and accident conditions 
involving the release of hazardous materials 
into the environment? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Emit 
hazardous 
emissions 
or 
handle 
hazardous or acutely hazardous materials, 
substances, or waste within one-quarter mile 
of an existing or proposed school? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Be located on a site which is included on a 
list of hazardous materials sites compiled 
pursuant to Government Code Section 
65962.5 and, as a result, would it create a 
significant hazard to the public or the 
environment?  
 
 
 
 
e) 
For a project located within an airport land 
use plan or, where such a plan has not been 
adopted, within two miles of a public airport 
or public use airport, would the project result 
in a safety hazard or excessive noise for 
people residing or working in the project 
area? 
 
 
 
 
f) 
Impair implementation of or physically 
interfere 
with 
an 
adopted 
emergency 
response plan or emergency evacuation 
plan? 
 
 
 
 
g) 
Expose people or structures, either directly or 
indirectly, to a significant risk of loss, injury or 
death involving wildland fires? 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
123 of 662

--- page 124 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
65 
Environmental Setting 
A material is considered hazardous if it appears on a list of hazardous materials prepared by a 
federal, state, or local agency or if it has characteristics defined as hazardous by such an agency. A 
hazardous material is defined in Title 22, Section 66261.10 of the California Code of Regulations as 
a substance with physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics which may cause or contribute to 
mortality or illness or pose a threat to human health or the environment when mismanaged. Chemical 
and physical properties which may cause a substance to be considered hazardous include toxicity, 
ignitability, corrosivity, and reactivity.  
Under Government Code Section 65962.5, the California Department of Toxic Substances Control 
(DTSC) maintains a list of hazardous substance sites. This list, referred to as the “Cortese List,” 
includes CALSITE hazardous material sites, sites with leaking underground storage tanks (LUSTs), 
and landfills with evidence of groundwater contamination. The SWRCB GeoTracker database 
similarly documents hazardous waste sites throughout the state but focuses on groundwater 
contamination. According to the Cortese List, there are no Federal superfund sites within five (5) 
miles of the proposed project. There is an active school investigation site located approximately 
0.25-mile east of the project site.65 GeoTracker lists 11 active sites within one (1) mile of the 
proposed project site, but project activities will not affect the cleanup of any active sites and vice 
versa. Four (4) of the sites are LUST cleanup sites.  The remaining seven (7) sites are sites of former 
gas stations, heavy machinery lots, and dry cleaners, businesses where the daily operations 
contaminated the surrounding areas.66  
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
Less than Significant Impact. Project construction activities are expected to involve the 
routine transport, use, and disposal of hazardous materials (e.g., motor fuels, oils, and 
grease) that could pose a significant threat to human health or the environment if not properly 
managed. Although small amounts of these materials would be transported, used, and 
disposed of during project construction, these materials are typically used in construction 
projects and are not considered acutely hazardous. Workers who handle hazardous 
materials are required to adhere to health and safety requirements enforced by the federal 
OSHA and California Division of Occupational Safety and Health (Cal/OSHA). Hazardous 
materials must be transported to and from the project site in accordance with Resource 
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and U.S. DOT regulations. Hazardous materials 
must also be disposed of in accordance with RCRA regulations at a facility that is permitted 
to accept the waste. compliance with existing regulations is mandatory, project construction 
 
65 
Department 
of 
Toxic 
Substances 
Control, 
EnviroStor, 
https://www.envirostor.dtsc.ca.gov/public/map/?global_id=60001438, accessed August 6, 2021. 
66 
State 
Water 
Resources 
Control 
Board, 
GeoTracker, 
https://geotracker.waterboards.ca.gov/map/?CMD=runreport&myaddress=Sacramento, accessed August 6, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
124 of 662

--- page 125 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
66 
is not expected to create a significant hazard to public health or the environment through the 
routine transport, use, or disposal of hazardous materials.  
During project operation, vacuum trucks would be used to remove accumulated debris from 
the trash capture device that would be placed within Poplar Creek. It is not anticipated that 
the device would capture hazardous wastes, as these materials are not regularly 
encountered in stormwater systems. The vacuum trucks would remove the trash from the 
device and transport it to a solid waste facility. The transport of refuse would adhere to all 
applicable local, state, and federal regulations listed above. As a result, impacts related to 
the routine transport, use, or disposal of hazardous materials during project construction and 
operation would be less than significant. 
b) 
Less than Significant Impact. The proposed project would be installing a trash capture 
device within a concrete-lined, intermittent stream. In order to anchor the device within the 
stream bed, the concrete must be removed and replaced around the device. It is possible 
that a skidsteer or excavator will be used within the channel to complete the concrete work. 
This heavy machinery would utilize motor fuels that could pose a significant threat to human 
health or the environment if not properly managed. However, this work would occur after the 
site is dewatered to reduce the likelihood of contamination from hazardous materials entering 
the waterway and unnecessary increases to turbidity. Additionally, all construction best 
management practices discussed in the project description would be followed. Therefore, 
impacts would be less than significant. 
c)  
No Impact. There are no schools within one-quarter mile of the project site. Therefore, there 
would be no impacts on schools.  
d)  
No Impact. The provisions of Government Code Section 65962.5 require the State Water 
Resources Control Board, Department of Toxic Substances Control, California Department 
of Health Services, and California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery to 
submit information to the California Environmental Protection Agency pertaining to sites that 
were associated with solid waste disposal, hazardous waste disposal, and/or hazardous 
materials releases. The compilation of hazardous materials release sites that meet criteria 
specified in Section 65962.5 of the California Government Code is known as the Cortese 
List.  
 
There are currently no hazardous materials release sites within the project site that meet the 
criteria for inclusion on the Cortese List. Therefore, the project would have no impacts related 
to development on a hazardous materials release site included on the Cortese List. 
e) 
Less than Significant Impact. The project site is located approximately 2.7 miles southwest 
of the San Francisco International Airport and falls within the Comprehensive Airport Land 
Use Compatibility Plan for the Environs of San Francisco International Airport plan area. The 
noise contour map from the Airport Land Use Compatibility Plan shows that the project site 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
125 of 662

--- page 126 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
67 
is not significantly affected by noise from the airport.67 Therefore, there would be no hazards 
as a result of excessive noise due to proximity to the airport. Additionally, the proposed 
project does not plan to construct any structures that would visually impair the landscape in 
a way that would impact the airport’s approach or departure zones. The project would have 
no impacts on the navigable airspace of public use airports and would not result in a safety 
hazard for people residing or working in the project site. Impacts would be less than 
significant. 
f) 
No Impact. The proposed project is located within and adjacent to a creek within a City 
operated golf course. There would be no road closures associated with this project. 
Therefore, construction of the proposed project would not block or impair any existing 
emergency evacuation routes. There would be no impact.   
g) 
No Impact. The project site is within and adjacent to a creek and is surrounded by managed 
open space and paved urbanized uses. There are no wildfire hazard areas within the City of 
San Mateo.68 Therefore, the project would have no impact related to wildland fire hazards.  
 
 
 
67 City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County, Airport Land Use Compatibility Plan for the Environs of 
San 
Francisco 
International 
Airport, 
https://ccag.ca.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2014/10/Consolidated_CCAG_ALUCP_November-20121.pdf, accessed August 9, 2021. 
68 
CalFire, 
San 
Mateo 
County 
Fire 
Hazard 
Severity 
Zones, 
https://planning.smcgov.org/sites/planning.smcgov.org/files/documents/files/Fire%20Hazard%20Severity%20Zones.pdf, 
accessed August 16, 2021.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
126 of 662

--- page 127 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
68 
IX. 
HYDROLOGY AND WATER QUALITY 
— Would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No Impact 
a) 
Violate any water quality standards or waste 
discharge 
requirements 
or 
otherwise 
substantially degrade surface or ground 
water quality? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Substantially decrease groundwater supplies 
or interfere substantially with groundwater 
recharge such that the project may impede 
sustainable groundwater management of the 
basin? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Substantially alter the existing drainage pattern of the site or area, including through the 
alteration of the course of a stream or river or through the addition of impervious surfaces, in a 
manner which would: 
(i) 
result in substantial erosion or 
siltation on- or off-site? 
 
 
 
 
(ii) 
substantially increase the rate or 
amount of surface runoff in a manner 
which would result in flooding on- or 
off-site? 
 
 
 
 
(iii) 
create or contribute runoff water that 
would exceed the capacity of existing 
or planned storm water drainage 
systems 
or 
provide 
substantial 
additional sources of polluted runoff? 
 
 
 
 
(iv) 
impede or redirect flood flows?  
 
 
 
 
d) 
In flood hazard, tsunami, or seiche zones, 
risk release of pollutants due to project 
inundation? 
 
 
 
 
e) 
Conflict with or obstruct implementation of a 
water quality control plan or sustainable 
groundwater management plan? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
127 of 662

--- page 128 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
69 
The following analysis of hydrology and water quality impacts is based on a Hydraulic Impact Study 
conducted by Schaaf & Wheeler. 
Environmental Setting 
The project site is located in the San Mateo Plain Groundwater Basin and discharges to the San 
Francisco Bay.69 The San Mateo Groundwater Basin encompasses 60,057 acres. The basin 
consists of mostly urbanized lands throughout the City. The City of San Mateo delineates seven (7) 
watersheds within the city, the project site falling within the North Shoreview Pump Station 
Watershed.70 Groundwater levels at the project site are approximately 306 feet deep.71  
Project work would occur within Poplar Creek. Poplar Creek is an intermittent, concrete-lined stream 
that is part of the City’s stormwater management system. From Site 1, Poplar Creek continues in a 
northeasterly direction for approximately 3,000 feet past Stream Enhancement Site 2, at which time 
the channel becomes unlined and begins to flow in the southeasterly direction. This earthen channel 
conveys flow for approximately 700 feet before discharging into the open forebay of the Poplar Pump 
Station. Flow from the forebay enters the pump station intake and is discharged through the earthen 
flood control levee into San Francisco Bay. 
The project site is covered with pervious surfaces such as ruderal grasses in the proposed staging 
area. At Stream Enhancement Site 2, the site is developed golf course land with existing drainage 
flowing into Poplar Creek. According to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) 
Federal Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), the project site is in Flood Zone AE, which is defined as an 
area within the 100-year flood zone where a base flood elevation has been determined.72  
Regulatory Setting 
The federal Clean Water Act (CWA) Section 402, promulgated by rules developed by the U.S. EPA 
in 1990, establishes the NPDES stormwater program. The program requires that urban stormwater 
runoff pollution of the nation’s water be regulated for Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems 
(MS4s). The San Francisco Bay Regional Water Board issued one (1) Municipal Regional 
Stormwater NPDES Permit (MRP) in 2015 covering MS4s that serve populations of 100,000 or 
greater.  
 
69 
County 
of 
San 
Mateo 
Office 
of 
Sustainability, 
Groundwater 
in 
San 
Mateo 
County, 
https://www.smcsustainability.org/energy-water/groundwater/, accessed August 4, 2021.  
70 City of San Mateo, General Plan Update Draft Environmental Impact Report – 4.8 Hydrology and Water Quality, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/5218/4_8-Hydrology?bidId=, accessed August 4, 2021. 
71 
San 
Mateo 
Plain 
Subbasin 
Assessment, 
Groundwater 
Levels, 
https://smcmaps.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=2b1097f5afb94e6a81088383b3f01ff5, 
accessed 
August 4, 2021. 
72 
FEMA 
Flood 
Map 
Service 
Center, 
https://msc.fema.gov/portal/search?AddressQuery=poplar%20creek%20golf%20course#searchresultsanchor, accessed 
August 4, 2021 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
128 of 662

--- page 129 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
70 
The City of San Mateo is part of the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program 
(SMCWPPP) which was established in 1990 to reduce the pollution carried by stormwater into local 
creeks, San Francisco Bay, and the Pacific Ocean. The program is a partnership of the City/County 
Association of Governments (C/CAG) which is comprised of each incorporated city and town within 
San Mateo County. The C/CAG shares a NPDES permit. 
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. Under Provision C.10 of the 
City’s Municipal Regional Stormwater NPDES permit, the City of San Mateo is required to 
reduce trash loads from MS4s by 100 percent by July 1, 2025. The trash capture device 
proposed by this project would be used to reduce trash loads from approximately 333 acres 
of San Mateo’s upstream storm drain system, approximately 3.3 acres of Caltrans’ STGA, 
and approximately 15.9 acres of Caltrans ROW. This would have a positive impact on water 
quality during operation and would align with water quality standards. 
Construction activities would require ground disturbance for saw-cutting into the creek bed, 
trash capture device installation, staging area grading, and stream enhancement planting. 
Two (2) cofferdams would be installed in Poplar Creek prior to in stream work to facilitate 
dewatering of the project site prior to construction. In addition, the project would be required 
to implement mitigation measure HYDRO-1 ensure minimal impacts to water quality during 
in-channel work. Standard construction measures recommended by the San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program would be implemented to minimize 
pollutants carried from the project site in runoff. Water quality impacts during construction 
would therefore be less than significant with implementation of Mitigation Measure HYDRO-1 
and adherence to applicable regulations, and operational water quality impacts would 
improve current baseline conditions.  
Impact HYDRO-1: Project construction during in-channel work would have the potential to 
impact water quality. 
Mitigation Measure HYDRO-1: The City shall incorporate the following practices into 
the construction documents to be implemented by the project contractor: 
• 
During channel dewatering, all water pumped out of the work area would be 
collected in a settling tank and undergo turbidity testing before being discharged 
back in the channel. The settling tank would be up to 10,000 gallons in size 
depending on the results of water flow testing at the time of construction and 
would be located in the designated staging area.  
• 
Equipment fueling and maintenance would occur off-site.  
• 
Fiber rolls would be installed between the staging area and the channel to 
prevent runoff of sediment into the channel. Rolls will be inspected and 
maintained on a weekly basis. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
129 of 662

--- page 130 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
71 
• 
Hazardous waste spill prevention and stockpiling methods will be implemented 
according to California Stormwater Quality Association (CASQA) best 
management practices. 
b) 
No Impact. The project would not require use of groundwater supplies or affect groundwater 
recharge in the area. The project would not install any new impervious surfaces. The project 
would remove and replace the concrete creek bed of Poplar Creek in order to install the trash 
capture device. There will be no increase in impervious surfaces. There would be no impact.  
c-i-iii) Less than Significant Impact. The proposed project would not result in substantial erosion, 
increase the rate or amount of surface runoff, or create or contribute to runoff that would 
exceed the capacity of the current system. The project would remove and replace the 
concrete lining of Poplar Creek in order to install the trash capture device, but there would 
be no net increase in impervious surfaces. The project would not cause a substantial change 
to the erosion and accretion patterns long-term because project activities would not alter the 
existing drainage pattern of the area. The stream enhancement area might prevent long term 
erosion; however, the area is already very well managed and does not contribute to erosion. 
Temporary construction impacts related to run-off from grading could occur, but standard 
measures from the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program and from the 
State Water Board’s General Permit would be implemented to ensure impacts from runoff 
would remain less than significant. Impacts would be less than significant. 
c-iv)  
Less than Significant Impact. A Hydraulic Impact Study was conducted by Schaaf & 
Wheeler to determine the impacts of installing the trash capture device within Poplar Creek. 
Their report determined that the installation of the device at the decided upon location would 
result in between three (3) and one (1) foot of head loss in the stormwater system.  Despite 
this loss, the report concluded that the addition of the trash capture device into the creek 
channel would not impede flood flows. There would be a less than significant impact.  
d) 
Less 
than 
Significant 
Impact. 
Seiche 
and 
tsunami 
are 
short 
duration, 
earthquake-generated water waves in large, enclosed bodies of water and the open ocean, 
respectively. Mudflows typically occur on steep slopes where vegetation is not sufficient to 
prevent rapid erosion. The project site is located in a flood hazard area (Zone AE). The 
project site is not located in a tsunami or seiche inundation area.73 The purpose of the 
proposed project is to install a trash capture device that would remove pollutants from 
surfaces waters. Due to the design of the device, even if a flood were to occur pollutants 
would not be released during device operation. The stream enhancement area would add 
native vegetation to the project site and would not increase pollutant concentrations. During 
construction, the project would comply with the best management practices established by 
 
73 CalOES, MyHazards, https://myhazards.caloes.ca.gov/, accessed August 5, 2021.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
130 of 662

--- page 131 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
72 
the SMCWPPP and the conditions set forth in the project description. Impacts would be less 
than significant. 
e) 
Less than Significant Impact. The project would not have other water quality or 
groundwater sustainability impacts beyond those discussed under items a) and b) above. 
The project would comply with the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program and the State Water Board’s General Permit. Impacts would be less than significant. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
131 of 662

--- page 132 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
73 
XI. 
LAND USE AND PLANNING – Would 
the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No Impact 
a) 
Physically 
divide 
an 
established 
community? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Cause a significant environmental impact 
due to a conflict with any land use plan, 
policy, or regulation adopted for the 
purpose of avoiding or mitigating an 
environmental effect? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
The project site is in a recreational park operated by the City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation 
Department. Existing land uses adjacent to the project site consist of parks and open space to the 
northwest and northeast, Low density and medium density single-family residential communities are 
located to the southwest and southeast. The City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan, adopted in 2010, 
provides policies and implementation strategies for management of the resources and land uses in 
the City, and the Municipal Code provides restrictions and requirements to protect resources and 
comply with local, state, and federal laws. Applicable General Plan and Municipal Code policies are 
listed below.  
Regulatory Setting 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
7.16.040(m) Emanation of noise or vibrations of such a loud, unusual, unnecessary, penetrating. 
lengthy, raucous, annoying, untimely, or boisterous nature as to unreasonably disturb, annoy, injure, 
interfere with, or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of the users of 
neighboring property. 
7.30.060 (e) Noise Special Provisions Construction, alteration, repair or land development 
activities which are authorized by a valid city permit shall be allowed on weekdays between the hours 
of 7 A.M. and 7 P.M., on Saturdays between the hours of 9 A.M. and 5 P.M., and on Sundays and 
holidays between the hours of 12 P.M. and 4 P.M., or at such other hours as may be authorized or 
restricted by the permit, if they meet at least one (1) of the following noise limitations: 
(1) No individual piece of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 90 dB at a 
distance of 25 feet. If the device is housed within a structure or trailer on the property, the 
measurement shall be made outside the structure at a distance as close to 25 feet from the 
equipment as possible. 
(2) The noise level at any point outside of the property plane of the project shall not exceed 
90 dB. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
132 of 662

--- page 133 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
74 
7.32.020 Vehicle – Cover Required No person shall use any vehicle for the conveyance or removal 
of solid waste unless such vehicle is staunch, tight, and closely covered with a wooden or metal 
cover so as wholly to prevent leakage or smell. No person shall use any vehicle for the conveyance 
or removal of solid waste unless such vehicle is provided with a cover securely fastened over the 
top thereof and be so constructed as to prevent the deposit of such solid waste, or any portion 
thereof, in or upon the street through which such vehicle may be driven. 
7.32.030 Vehicle – License Required No person shall maintain, run, or otherwise operate any 
vehicle for the purpose of removing or collecting any solid waste of any character, or therewith to 
remove or collect the same, without first having obtained a license required therefor. 
7.32.040 Vehicle – Permit Required No license shall be issued for the purposes mentioned 
in Section 7.32.030, unless the applicant therefor has first obtained a permit therefor from the 
Council, on recommendation of the health officer; and if any license has been inadvertently issued 
without the obtaining of any such permit, the same shall be null and void. In order to obtain a permit, 
the applicant shall first file with the City Council of City a written petition stating the name and 
residence of the applicant, describing the vehicle or vehicles to be used by the applicant for the 
purposes aforesaid, and stating whether the same is metal lined and what character of cover shall 
be maintained over the solid waste, or other material, to be carried therein. Any permit issued upon 
the application aforesaid shall be good only for the remainder of the fiscal year during which the 
same has been issued and shall expire on the 30th day of June following the date of issue. The 
Council shall have discretion in regard to the granting, or refusal to grant, any such permit. 
7.3.170 Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit 
(a) No construction project as defined under Section 7.39.030, Definitions, conducted in or out of the 
public right-of-way that involves a land disturbance activity and that requires a site development 
planning application shall be approved without first obtaining a Stormwater Pollution Prevention 
Program construction (SWPPC) permit from the Director of Public Works. 
(b) The Director of Public Works may require that a SWPPC permit be required for construction work 
involving a land disturbance activity that does not require a site development planning application, 
as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter. 
City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan  
Land Use Element 
LU-1.20: Code Enforcement. As a high priority support code enforcement to ensure that all uses 
are in compliance with City codes and conditions of development approval. 
LU-4.4.5: Stormwater Treatment. Continue to implement the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater 
Pollution Prevention Program to ensure compliance with the National Pollutant Discharge 
Elimination System (NPDES) permit.  
1. Prevent water pollution from point and non-point sources.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
133 of 662

--- page 134 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
75 
2. Minimize stormwater runoff and pollution by encouraging low-impact design features, such 
as pervious parking surfaces, bioswales and filter strips in new development.  
3. Encourage the use of drought-tolerant and native vegetation in landscaping. 
LU-4.3.1: Solid Waste Disposal. Continue to support programs to reduce solid waste materials in 
landfill areas in accordance with state requirements. 
LU-8.9: Air Quality Construction Impacts. The City shall mitigate air quality impacts generated 
during construction activities by requiring the following measures:  
1. Use of appropriate dust control measures, based on project size and latest Bay Area Air 
Quality Management District (BAAQMD) guidance, shall be applied to all construction 
activities within San Mateo.  
2. Applicants seeking demolition permits shall demonstrate compliance with applicable 
BAAQMD requirements involving lead paint and asbestos containing materials (ACM’s) 
designed to mitigate exposure to lead paint and asbestos.  
3. Utilization of construction emission control measures recommended by BAAQMD as 
appropriate for the specifics of the project (e.g., length of time of construction and distance 
from sensitive receptors). This may include the utilization of low emission construction 
equipment, restrictions on the length of time of use of certain heavy-duty construction 
equipment, and utilization of methods to reduce emissions from construction equipment 
(alternative fuels, particulate matter traps and diesel particulate filters). 
Urban Design Element  
GUD-1.2: Preservation of Natural Focal Points. Preserve and enhance views of and access to 
the foothills and the Bay through the design of new development consistent with the Shoreline Park 
Specific Plan.  
Conservation, Open Space, Parks and Recreation Element 
C/OS-2.2: Aesthetic and Habitat Values – Private Creeks. Preserve and enhance the aesthetic 
and habitat values of privately owned sections of all other creeks and channels, shown in Figure 
C/OS-2 of the General Plan whenever cost effective or whenever these values outweigh economic 
considerations. 
C/OS-2.3: Hydrologic Impacts. Ensure that improvement to creeks and other waterways do not 
cause adverse hydrologic impacts on upstream or downstream portions of the subject creek; comply 
with Safety Element Policy S-2.1 regarding flood control. 
C/OS-2.6: Water Quality. Continue to strive for the highest possible level of water quality reasonable 
for an urban environment in City creeks, channels, Marina Lagoon, and the Bay through the provision 
of administrative, maintenance, and treatment measures. At a minimum, water quality levels must 
meet Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) standards, allow for limited water recreation, and 
sustain aquatic/wildlife habitat appropriate to the water flow.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
134 of 662

--- page 135 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
76 
C/OS-5.2: Site Evaluations. Require independent professional evaluation of sites during the 
environmental review process for any public or private development located within known or potential 
habitat of species designated by state and federal agencies as rare, threatened, or endangered, as 
shown in Appendix G, and as amended if new species are so designated.  
The site evaluation required shall determine the presence/absence of these special-status plant and 
animal species on the site. The surveys associated with the evaluation shall be conducted for proper 
identification of the species. The evaluation will consider the potential for significant impacts on 
special-status plant and animal species and will identify feasible mitigation measures to mitigate 
such impacts to the satisfaction of the City and appropriate governmental agencies (e.g., U.S. Fish 
and Wildlife Service and California Department of Fish and Conservation and Open Space Element 
Adopted by the City Council on October 18, 2010 VI-25 Resolution No. 134-2010 Amended by the 
City Council on April 18, 2011 Resolution No. 42 (2011) Game). Require adequate mitigation 
measures for ensuring the protection of sensitive resources and achieving “no net loss” of sensitive 
habitat acreage, values, and functions. In lieu of the site evaluation, presence of special status plant 
and animal species may be assumed and mitigation requiring “no net loss” of sensitive habitat 
acreage may be applied. 
C/OS-9.1: Development Requirements. Require new developments to protect and enhance the 
character of scenic roadways and trails designated on Figure C/OS-4 of the General Plan, including 
but not limited to treatment of signs and screening, land uses, and preservation of view corridors. 
Safety and Hazardous Waste Management Element 
 
S-2.1: Creek Alteration. Prohibit any reduction of creek channel capacity, impoundment or diversion 
of creek channel flows which would adversely affect adjacent properties or the degree of flooding. 
Prevent erosion of creek banks. 
Noise Element 
N-2.1: Noise Ordinance. Continue implementation and enforcement of the City's existing noise 
control ordinance: a) which prohibits noise that is annoying or injurious to neighbors of normal 
sensitivity, making such activity a public nuisance, and b) restricts the hours of construction to 
minimize noise impact.  
N-2.2. Minimize Noise Impact. Protect all “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in Tables N-1 and N-2 
of the General Plan from adverse impacts caused by the noise generated on-site by new 
developments. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development design to minimize 
noise impacts. Prohibit long-term exposure increases of 3 dBA (Ldn) or greater at the common 
property line, or new uses which generate noise levels of 60 dBA (Ldn) or greater at the property line, 
excluding existing ambient noise levels. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
135 of 662

--- page 136 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
77 
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
No Impact. The project involves the installation of a trash capture device within a concrete-
lined, intermittent stream and stream enhancement along the edge of Poplar Creek. All 
proposed work would occur within previously developed areas of a developed and 
maintained park. The project would not physically divide an established community. No 
impacts would occur. 
b) 
Less than Significant Impact. The project would have a significant impact if it were to 
conflict with any land use plan, policy, or regulation adopted for the purpose of avoiding or 
mitigating an environmental effect. The project is subject to several local policies, plans, and 
regulations, as described above in the Regulatory Setting. The primary objective of the 
proposed project is to install a trash capture device within Poplar Creek and enhance native 
vegetation along the creek’s edge. The installation of the device and the enhancement of 
native vegetation are consistent with General Plan Policies LU-4.4.5, LU-8.9, UD-1.2, and 
C/OS-2.2. As a result of inserting a device within the creek channel, stormwater flow could 
be disrupted. The Hydraulic Impact Study completed for this project evaluated the hydraulic 
conditions of the creek and ensured that the trash capture device would be placed in the best 
possible location to avoid negative impacts to hydraulic flow, consistent with Policy C/OS-2.3 
of the General Plan. The best management practices set forth in the Project Description 
would ensure that project work would minimize negative impacts to air and water quality 
caused by construction activities near and within the creek channel. These best management 
practices would be consistent with Policies LU-8.9 and C/OS-2.6. The project would not 
conflict with the City of San Mateo General Plan or other applicable land use plans or policies. 
Impacts would be less than significant. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
136 of 662

--- page 137 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
78 
XII. MINERAL RESOURCES — Would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
a) 
Result in the loss of availability of a known mineral 
resource that would be of value to the region and 
the residents of the state? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Result in the loss of availability of a locally 
important 
mineral 
resource 
recovery 
site 
delineated on a local general plan, specific plan, 
or other land use plan? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
The State Surface Mining and Reclamation Act of 1975 requires the State Geologist to classify 
mineral areas in the state, and the State Mining and Geology Board to designate mineral deposits 
of regional or statewide significance. The San Mateo County General Plan does not show any 
mineral resources of value within the vicinity of the project site.74  
Discussion of Impacts 
a, b) 
No Impact. The project site is not in or adjacent to any important mineral resource areas. 
Furthermore, the development of the project would not preclude future excavation of oil or 
minerals should such extraction become viable. As such, there would be no loss of availability 
of known mineral resources and no impacts to mineral resources. 
 
 
 
74 San Mateo County, San Mateo County General Plan, https://planning.smcgov.org/sites/planning.smcgov.org/files/SMC-
GP%201986.pdf, accessed August 4, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
137 of 662

--- page 138 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
79 
XIII. NOISE — Would the project result in: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
a) 
Generation 
of 
a 
substantial 
temporary 
or 
permanent increase in ambient noise levels in the 
vicinity of the project in excess of standards 
established in the local general plan or noise 
ordinance, or applicable standards of other 
agencies? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Generation of excessive groundborne vibration or 
groundborne noise levels? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
For a project located within the vicinity of a private 
airstrip or an airport land use plan or, where such a 
plan has not been adopted, within two miles of a 
public airport or public use airport, would the project 
expose people residing or working in the project 
area to excessive noise levels? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
Noise is generally defined as sound that is loud, disagreeable, or unexpected. Sound, as described 
in more detail below, is mechanical energy transmitted in the form of a wave because of a 
disturbance or vibration. 
There are several methods of characterizing sound. The most common in California is the 
A-weighted sound level or dBA. This scale gives greater weight to the frequencies of sound to which 
the human ear is most sensitive. Because sound levels can vary markedly over a short period of 
time, different types of noise descriptors are used to account for this variability. Typical noise 
descriptors include maximum noise level (Lmax), the energy-equivalent noise level (Leq), and the 
day-night average noise level (Ldn). The Ldn noise descriptor is commonly used in establishing noise 
exposure guidelines for specific land uses. For the energy-equivalent sound/noise descriptor called 
Leq the most common averaging period is hourly, but Leq can describe any series of noise events of 
arbitrary duration. 
Although the A-weighted noise level may adequately indicate the level of environmental noise at any 
instant in time, community noise levels vary continuously. Most environmental noise includes a 
conglomeration of noise from distant sources which create a relatively steady background noise in 
which no particular source is identifiable. 
Since the sensitivity to noise increases during the evening hours, 24-hour descriptors have been 
developed that incorporate artificial noise penalties added to quiet-time noise events. The Day/Night 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
138 of 662

--- page 139 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
80 
Average Sound Level, Ldn (sometimes also referred to as DNL), is the average A-weighted noise 
level during a 24-hour day, obtained after the addition of 10 dB to noise levels measured in the 
nighttime between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. The Community Noise Equivalent Level (CNEL) is a 
24-hour A-weighted noise level from midnight to midnight after the addition of five (5) dBA to sound 
levels occurring in the evening from 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. and after the addition of 10 dBA to sound 
levels occurring in the night between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. 
Construction Noise 
Noise impacts resulting from construction depend on the noise generated by various pieces of 
construction equipment, the timing and duration of noise generating activities, the distance between 
construction noise sources and noise sensitive receptors and shielding. Construction activities for 
individual projects are typically carried out in stages. During each stage of construction, there would 
be a different mix of equipment operating. Construction noise impacts primarily result when 
construction activities occur during noise-sensitive times of the day (e.g., early morning, evening, or 
nighttime hours), the construction occurs in areas immediately adjoining noise-sensitive land uses, 
or when construction lasts over extended periods of time. Where noise from construction activities 
exceeds 60 dBA Leq and exceeds the ambient noise environment by at least five (5) dBA Leq at 
noise-sensitive uses in the project vicinity for a period exceeding one (1) year, the impact would be 
considered significant. 
Construction Vibration 
Construction operations are potential sources of substantial ground vibration depending on the 
distance from sensitive receptors, and the type of construction. Ground vibration from construction 
may consist of rapidly fluctuating motions or waves, which are also measured in decibels. The 
abbreviation “VdB” is used in this document for vibration decibels to reduce confusion with sound 
decibels. 
Typical background vibration levels in residential areas are usually 50 VdB or lower, well below the 
threshold of perception for most humans. Perceptible vibration levels inside residences are attributed 
to the operation of heating and air conditioning systems, door slams and foot traffic. Construction 
activities, train operations, and street traffic are some of the most common external sources of 
vibration that can be perceptible inside residences.  
Sound is technically described in terms of amplitude (loudness) and frequency (pitch). The standard 
unit of sound amplitude measurement is the decibel (dB). The decibel scale is a logarithmic scale 
that describes the physical intensity of the pressure vibrations that make up any sound. The pitch of 
the sound is related to the frequency of the pressure vibration. Since the human ear is not equally 
sensitive to a given sound level at all frequencies, a special frequency-dependent rating scale has 
been devised to relate noise to human sensitivity. The dBA scale provides this compensation by 
discriminating against frequencies in a manner approximating the sensitivity of the human ear. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
139 of 662

--- page 140 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
81 
Noise, on the other hand, is typically defined as unwanted sound. A typical noise environment 
consists of a base of steady “background” noise that is the sum of many distant and indistinguishable 
noise sources. Superimposed on this background noise is the sound from individual local sources. 
These can vary from an occasional aircraft or train passing by to virtually continuous noise from, for 
example, traffic on a major highway. 
Several rating scales have been developed to analyze the adverse effect of community noise on 
people. Since environmental noise fluctuates over time, these scales consider that the effect of noise 
upon people is largely dependent upon the total acoustical energy content of the noise, as well as 
the time of day when the noise occurs. Those that are applicable to this analysis are as follows: 
• 
Leq – A Leq, or equivalent energy noise level, is the average acoustic energy content of noise 
for a stated period of time. Thus, the Leq of a time-varying noise and that of a steady noise 
are the same if they deliver the same acoustic energy to the ear during exposure. For 
evaluating community impacts, this rating scale does not vary, regardless of whether the 
noise occurs during the day or the night. 
• 
Lmax – The maximum instantaneous noise level experienced during a given period of time. 
• 
Lmin – The minimum instantaneous noise level experienced during a given period of time. 
• 
CNEL – The Community Noise Equivalent Level is a 24-hour average Leq with a 5 dBA 
“weighting” during the hours of 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. and a 10 dBA “weighting” added to 
noise during the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. to account for noise sensitivity in the 
evening and nighttime, respectively. The logarithmic effect of these additions is that a 60 dBA 
24-hour Leq would result in a measurement of 66.7 dBA CNEL.  
Noise environments and consequences of human activities are usually well represented by median 
noise levels during the day, night, or over a 24-hour period. For residential uses, environmental noise 
levels are generally considered low when the CNEL is below 60 dBA, moderate in the 60–70 dBA 
range, and high above 70 dBA.75 Noise levels greater than 85 dBA can cause temporary or 
permanent hearing loss. Examples of low daytime levels are isolated, natural settings with noise 
levels as low as 20 dBA and quiet suburban residential streets with noise levels around 40 dBA. 
Noise levels above 45 dBA at night can disrupt sleep. Examples of moderate level noise 
environments are urban residential or semi-commercial areas (typically 55–60 dBA) and commercial 
locations (typically 60 dBA). People may consider louder environments adverse, but most will accept 
the higher levels associated with noisier urban residential or residential-commercial areas 
(60-75 dBA) or dense urban or industrial areas (65–80 dBA). 
It is widely accepted that in the community noise environment, the average healthy ear can barely 
perceive CNEL noise level changes of 3 dBA. CNEL changes from 3 to 5 dBA may be noticed by 
some individuals who are extremely sensitive to changes in noise. A 5 dBA CNEL increase is readily 
noticeable, while the human ear perceives a 10 dBA CNEL increase as a doubling of sound. 
 
75 Office of Planning and Research, State of California General Plan Guidelines, October 2003 (in coordination with the 
California Department of Health Services).   
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
140 of 662

--- page 141 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
82 
Noise levels from a particular source generally decline as distance to the receptor increases. Other 
factors, such as the weather and reflecting or barriers, also help intensify or reduce the noise level 
at any given location. A commonly used rule of thumb for roadway noise is that for every doubling 
of distance from the source, the noise level is reduced by about 3 dBA at acoustically “hard” locations 
(i.e., the area between the noise source and the receptor is nearly complete asphalt, concrete, 
hard-packed soil, or other solid materials) and 4.5 dBA at acoustically “soft” locations (i.e., the area 
between the source and receptor is normal earth or has vegetation, including grass). Noise from 
stationary or point sources is reduced by about 6 to 7.5 dBA for every doubling of distance at 
acoustically hard and soft locations, respectively. Noise levels are also generally reduced by 1 dBA 
for each 1,000 feet of distance due to air absorption. Noise levels may also be reduced by intervening 
structures – generally, a single row of buildings between the receptor and the noise source reduces 
the noise level by about 5 dBA, while a solid wall or berm reduces noise levels by 5 to 10 dBA. The 
normal noise attenuation within residential structures with open windows is about 17 dBA, while the 
noise attenuation with closed windows is about 25 dBA.76  
Table 3 lists the Federal Transit Administrations typical construction equipment noise levels at 
50 feet.  
Table 3. Construction Equipment Noise Generation 
Equipment 
TYPICAL NOISE LEVEL (DBA) 
50 FT FROM SOURCE 
EQUIPMENT 
TYPICAL NOISE LEVEL 
(DBA) 50 FT FROM 
SOURCE 
Air Compressor 
81 
Jack Hammer 
88 
Backhoe 
80 
Loader 
85 
Ballast Equalizer 
82 
Paver 
89 
Ballast Tamper 
83 
Pile-driver (Impact) 
101 
Compactor 
82 
Pile-driver (Sonic) 
96 
Concrete Mixer 
85 
Pneumatic Tool 
85 
Concrete Pump 
82 
Pump 
76 
Concrete Vibrator 
76 
Roller 
74 
Crane, Derrick 
88 
Saw 
76 
Crane, Mobile 
83 
Scarifier 
83 
 
76 National Cooperative Highway Research Program Report 117, Highway Noise: A Design Guide for Highway Engineers, 
1971. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
141 of 662

--- page 142 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
83 
Equipment 
TYPICAL NOISE LEVEL (DBA) 
50 FT FROM SOURCE 
EQUIPMENT 
TYPICAL NOISE LEVEL 
(DBA) 50 FT FROM 
SOURCE 
Dozer 
85 
Scraper 
89 
Generator 
81 
Shovel 
82 
Grader 
85 
Spike Driver 
77 
Impact Wrench 
85 
Truck 
88 
Source: Federal Transit Administration. Transit Noise and Vibration Impact Assessment, 2006  
 
Construction activities would generate temporary noise from equipment use; the most common noise 
generated would be from mobile diesel equipment such as excavators, pick-up trucks, saws, a 
10-wheel dump truck, and a telehandler. Activities would be restricted to the hours of 7:00 A.M. to 
5:00 P.M., Monday through Friday per the City’s Municipal Code. 
Table 3 illustrates typical noise levels from construction equipment at a reference distance of 50 feet. 
Noise levels from construction equipment attenuate at a rate of six (6) dBA per doubling of distance. 
Therefore, the noise levels at a distance of 100 feet would be six (6) dBA less than those shown in 
Table 3. Construction equipment would generate maximum noise levels of approximately 101 dB at 
50 feet.  
Construction noise levels may periodically exceed noise standards in the existing Noise Ordinance, 
but the temporary noise from construction would not cause a substantial increase in ambient noise 
or expose sensitive receptors to unacceptable noise levels for long periods of time.  
Noise-Sensitive Receptors 
Noise‐sensitive land uses are generally considered to include those uses where noise exposure 
could result in health‐related risks to individuals, as well as places where quiet is an essential 
element of their intended purpose. Residential dwellings are of primary concern because of the 
potential for increased and prolonged exposure of individuals to both interior and exterior noise 
levels. Additional land uses such as parks, historic sites, cemeteries, and recreation areas are also 
considered sensitive to increases in exterior noise levels. Schools, churches, hotels, libraries, and 
other places where low interior noise levels are essential are also considered noise‐sensitive land 
uses. The nearest sensitive receptors consist predominantly of residential dwellings on the 
southeastern side of East Poplar Avenue and the southwestern side of US-101, approximately 
290 and 380 feet away from Site 1, respectively.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
142 of 662

--- page 143 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
84 
Existing Noise Conditions 
According to the City’s General Plan Existing Noise Contour Map, Site 1 falls within the 75 dBA 
contour and Stream Enhancement Site 2 falls between the 60 dBA and 64 dBA contours.77 Noise at 
Site 1 is a result of heavy vehicle traffic along North Bayshore Boulevard and US-101, nearby 
residences, the golf course, the electrical substation operations, and vehicular traffic along roads. 
Noise at Stream Enhancement Site 2 is dissipated noise from these same sources. There are no 
schools or nursing homes adjacent to the project site. The nearest sensitive noise receptors are 
residences approximately 290 feet southeast of the project site and students attending College Park 
Elementary school, located approximately 0.34-mile southwest of the site.  
Regulatory Setting 
City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
The City of San Mateo Municipal Code, Chapter 7.30 regulates noise generated through construction 
activities78. Subsection 7.30.060(e) states that construction, alteration, repair or land development 
activities which are authorized by a valid city permit shall be allowed on weekdays between the hours 
of 7 A.M. and 7 P.M., on Saturdays between the hours of 9 A.M. and 5 P.M., and on Sundays and 
holidays between the hours of 12 P.M. and 4 P.M., or at such other hours as may be authorized or 
restricted by the permit, if they meet at least one (1) of the following noise limitations: 
• 
No individual piece of equipment shall produce a noise level exceeding 90 dBA at a distance 
of 25 feet. If the device is housed within a structure or trailer on the property, the 
measurement shall be made outside the structure at a distance as close to 25 feet from the 
equipment as possible. 
• 
The noise level at any point outside of the property plane of the project shall not exceed 
90 dBA. 
City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan 
The City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan contains a noise-sensitive land use and noise compatibility 
matrix which summarizes the normally acceptable, conditionally acceptable, and normally 
unacceptable noise levels for various land uses. The matrix describes that for parks and 
playgrounds, typically noise levels greater than 65 dBA CNEL are unacceptable.79 The project site 
is within a golf course that is zoned as parks/open space and is a noise-sensitive land use category. 
 
77 City of San Mateo, General Plan - Noise Element, Existing Noise Contours, June 2009. 
78 
San 
Mateo 
Law 
Library, 
San 
Mateo 
Municipal 
Code 
– 
Section 
7.30.060(e), 
https://sanmateo.ca.us.open.law/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code/7.30.060#(e), accessed August 4, 2021. 
79 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo, 
2030 
General 
Plan 
– 
Noise 
Element, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/7167/Noise2010?bidId=, accessed August 4, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
143 of 662

--- page 144 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
85 
The following noise-related policies provided in the City of San Mateo 2030 General Plan are relevant 
to this proposed project: 
• 
Policy N-2.1: Continue implementation and enforcement of the City's existing noise control 
ordinance: a) which prohibits noise that is annoying or injurious to neighbors of normal 
sensitivity, making such activity a public nuisance, and b) restricts the hours of construction 
to minimize noise impact. 
• 
Policy N-2.2: Protect all “noise-sensitive” land uses listed in Tables N-1 and N-2 from adverse 
impacts caused by the noise generated on-site by new developments. Incorporate necessary 
mitigation measures into development design to minimize noise impacts. Prohibit long-term 
exposure increases of 3 dB (Ldn) or greater at the common property line, or new uses which 
generate noise levels of 60 dB (Ldn) or greater at the property line, excluding existing ambient 
noise levels. 
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. Construction activities would 
generate temporary noise from equipment use. The most common noise generated would 
be from mobile diesel equipment such as excavators, pick-up trucks, saws, a 10-wheel dump 
truck, and a telehandler. Activities would be restricted to the hours stipulated by the City’s 
municipal code. 
Table 3 illustrates typical noise levels from construction equipment at a reference distance 
of 50 feet. Noise levels from construction equipment attenuate at a rate of six (6) dBA per 
doubling of distance. Therefore, the noise levels at a distance of 100 feet would be six (6) 
dBA less than those shown in Table 3. Construction equipment would generate maximum 
noise levels of approximately 88 dB at 50 feet.  
Construction noise levels may periodically exceed noise standards in the existing Municipal 
Code, but the temporary noise from construction would not cause a substantial increase in 
ambient noise or expose sensitive receptors to unacceptable noise levels for long periods of 
time. Impacts associated with construction noise would cause a potentially significant, 
temporary increase in noise levels, but incorporation of Mitigation Measure NOI-1 would 
reduce noise impacts to a less than significant level.  
Long-term operational noise impacts would be less than significant because the conditions 
would be similar to existing noise levels.  
Impact NOI-1: Construction noise could exceed the City of San Mateo Municipal Code 
standard.  
Mitigation Measure NOI–1: The City shall incorporate the following practices into 
the construction documents to be implemented by the project contractor: 
• 
Construction hours shall be limited to 7:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M., Monday through 
Friday only.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
144 of 662

--- page 145 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
86 
• 
Notify businesses, residences, and noise-sensitive land uses adjacent to 
construction sites of the construction schedule in writing. Designate the City’s 
construction manager as responsible for responding to any local complaints 
about construction noise. The construction manager shall determine the 
cause of the noise complaints (for example starting too early, or a bad muffler) 
and institute reasonable measures to correct the problem. Conspicuously post 
a telephone number for the construction manager at the construction site. 
• 
Maximize the physical separation between noise generators and noise 
receptors. Such separation includes, but is not limited to, the following 
measures: 
 
Use heavy-duty mufflers for stationary equipment and barriers around 
particularly noisy areas of the site or around the entire site; 
 
Where feasible, use shields, impervious fences, or other physical sound 
barriers to inhibit transmission of noise to sensitive receptors; 
 
Locate stationary equipment to minimize noise impacts on the 
community; and 
 
Minimize backing movements of equipment. 
• 
Use quiet construction equipment whenever possible. 
• 
Impact equipment (e.g., jack hammers and pavement breakers) shall be 
hydraulically or electrically powered wherever possible to avoid noise 
associated with compressed air exhaust from pneumatically-powered tools. 
Compressed air exhaust silencers shall be used on other equipment. Other 
quieter procedures, such as drilling rather than using impact equipment, shall 
be used whenever feasible. 
• 
Prohibit unnecessary idling of internal combustion engines. 
b) 
Less than Significant Impact. Ground-borne vibration and noise is typically associated with 
blasting operations, the use of pile drivers, and large-scale demolition activities. The 
proposed project would not require the use of any of these activities. Saw cutting into the 
concrete-lined creek bed would be required to install the trash capture device, but these 
activities would not generate ground-borne vibration. The impact would be less than 
significant.  
c) 
No Impact. The project site falls under the Comprehensive Airport Land Use Compatibility 
Plan for the Environs of San Francisco International Airport. San Francisco International 
Airport is located approximately 2.7 miles northeast of the project site. However, the airport 
land use plan noise contour map asserts that the noise from aircraft activity associated with 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
145 of 662

--- page 146 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
87 
the airport does not extend to the project site.80 This distance precludes the possibility that 
the project would expose people residing or working in the project site to excessive noise in 
combination with aviation noise. No impacts in this regard would occur. 
 
 
80 City/County Association of Governments of San Mateo County, Comprehensive Airport Land Use Compatibility Plan for 
the 
Environs 
of 
San 
Francisco 
International 
Airport, 
https://ccag.ca.gov/wp-
content/uploads/2014/10/Consolidated_CCAG_ALUCP_November-20121.pdf, accessed August 4, 2021.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
146 of 662

--- page 147 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
88 
XIV. POPULATION AND HOUSING — Would the 
project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
a) 
Induce substantial unplanned population growth in 
an area, either directly (for example, by proposing 
new homes and businesses) or indirectly (for 
example, through extension of roads or other 
infrastructure)? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Displace substantial numbers of existing people or 
housing, 
necessitating 
the 
construction 
of 
replacement housing elsewhere? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
The project site is located in Poplar Creek, an intermittent stream that is located in a concrete-lined 
channel in the City of San Mateo. The site is zoned for Parks/Open Space Conservation and is 
surrounded by residential land uses.  
Discussion of Impacts 
a, b) 
No Impact. The project would install a trash capture device in Poplar Creek at Site 1 and 
enhance vegetation along the banks of the creek at Stream Enhancement Site 2. The trash 
capture device would remove pollution from the stormwater system before it reaches the San 
Francisco Bay. The project would be constructed in the creek and the associated City owned 
golf course property and would not displace people or housing. The project would not result 
in the construction of new housing and therefore would not result in a substantial increase in 
population or housing units in the City. No impacts would occur. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
147 of 662

--- page 148 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
89 
XV. PUBLIC SERVICES — Would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
a) 
Result in substantial adverse physical impacts associated with the provision of new or 
physically altered governmental facilities, need for new or physically altered governmental facilities, 
the construction of which could cause significant environmental impacts, in order to maintain 
acceptable service ratios, response times, or other performance objectives for any of the public 
services: 
 
Fire protection? 
 
 
 
 
 
Police protection? 
 
 
 
 
 
Schools? 
 
 
 
 
 
Parks? 
 
 
 
 
 
Other public facilities? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
San Mateo Fire Department 
The San Mateo Fire Department provides for the safety, health, and well-being of all individuals, 
property, and the environment through programs designed to respond to threats from fire hazard, 
medical assistance, disaster preparedness, and fire prevention. The Department operates nine (9) 
fire stations equipped with 10 engines and 154 full-time employees that provide these services within 
the cities of San Mateo, Belmont, and Foster City.81 The San Mateo Fire Department has a response 
time to 90 percent of calls in 6 minutes and 18 seconds.82 
San Mateo Police Department 
The San Mateo Police Department has been in existence since 1856. In its current configuration, 
the Chief of Police directs three (3) branches: the Field Operations Services Bureau, the 
Investigation Services Bureau, and the Support Services Bureau. The department has 115 worn 
full-time officers (one [1] chief, two [2] captains, five [5] lieutenants, 17 sergeants, and 90 officers), 
16 dispatchers, 10 community service officers, and five (5) administrative staff who provide police 
 
81 City of San Mateo, Fire Department, https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/74/Fire, accessed August 3, 2021. 
82 City of San Mateo, General Plan Update Draft Environmental Impact Report – 4.11 Public Services, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/5221/4_11-Public-Services?bidId=, accessed August 3, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
148 of 662

--- page 149 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
90 
services and public safety dispatching to approximately 100,000 residents for the City of San 
Mateo.83 
Public Schools  
Three (3) school districts serve the City of San Mateo: the San Mateo-Foster City School District 
(SMFCSD) serves grades K–8; the San Mateo Union High School District serves grades 9–12; and 
the County Community College District serves high school graduates and anyone over 18.84 
SMFCSD operates 20 schools. San Mateo Union High School District operates seven (7) high 
schools, and one (1) adult school. The County Community College District operates three (3) 
community colleges throughout San Mateo County.  
Parks and Recreational Facilities 
The City of San Mateo has more than 12 neighborhood parks, nine (9) larger community parks, 
six (6) recreation/community centers, two (2) pools, two (2) community gardens, a shoreline regional 
park system, small “mini” parks, an estuary lagoon for boating, and the Poplar Creek 18-hole golf 
course totaling approximately 200 acres of open space within City limits.85 There are more than 
40 miles of paths and trails throughout the City.  
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
No Impact. Given the proposed project would not increase the existing residential or 
employment population in the City, the project would not result in a long-term increase in the 
demand for public services, schools, public facilities or require construction of new 
governmental facilities, such as libraries. There would be no road closures associated with 
the project, so response times for fire and police protection services would not be impacted. 
Therefore, no impacts to fire protection, police protection, schools, and other public facilities 
would occur.  
Less than Significant Impact. The purpose of the project is to install a trash capture device 
in Poplar Creek and enhance native vegetation along the creek’s extent. The proposed 
project would occur in the Poplar Creek Golf Course, which is a City owned and operated 
park. However, golf course function would not be disturbed during construction or operation. 
The stream enhancement area would be located outside of high traffic areas for golfers and 
therefore would not impact recreational opportunities for golfers. Impacts to parks would 
therefore be less than significant. 
 
 
83 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo 
Adopted 
2018-20 
Business 
Plan, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/65342/Adopted-2018-20-Business-Plan?bidId=, Accessed August 
3, 2021. 
84 City of San Mateo, General Plan Update Draft Environmental Impact Report – 4.11 Public Services, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/5221/4_11-Public-Services?bidId=, accessed August 3, 2021. 
85 Ibid 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
149 of 662

--- page 150 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
91 
XVI. RECREATION — Would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No Impact 
a) 
Increase the use of existing neighborhood 
and regional parks or other recreational 
facilities such that substantial physical 
deterioration of the facility would occur or be 
accelerated? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Include recreational facilities or require the 
construction or expansion of recreational 
facilities which might have an adverse 
physical effect on the environment? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
The project site is located in Poplar Creek which runs through the Poplar Creek Golf Course. This 
golf course is owned and operated by the City of San Mateo Parks and Recreation Department. The 
course is a standard 18-hole golf course that was built in 1933 and was completely remodeled in 
1999.86 
Discussion of Impacts 
a, b) 
Less than Significant Impact. Given the proposed project would not increase the existing 
residential or employment population in the City, the project would not increase the use of 
nearby recreational facilities. The purpose of the project is to install a trash capture device 
within Poplar Creek and enhance vegetation along the creek. Although the project occurs 
within the footprint of a City park, golfing activities would not be interrupted during 
construction or operation. The trash capture device would be installed in an area away from 
the active golf course and would not be accessible to golfers. The stream enhancement area 
location is approximately 290 feet from the closest putting green. There would be a less than 
significant impact on recreational facilities. 
 
 
 
86 Poplar Creek, The Course, https://poplarcreekgolf.com/course/, accessed August 3, 2021.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
150 of 662

--- page 151 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
92 
XVII. TRANSPORTATION — Would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
a) 
Conflict with a program, plan, ordinance or policy 
addressing the circulation system, including 
transit, roadway, bicycle and pedestrian facilities? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Conflict or be inconsistent with CEQA Guidelines 
section 15064.3, subdivision (b)? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Substantially increase hazards due to a geometric 
design feature (e.g., sharp curves or dangerous 
intersections) or incompatible uses (e.g., farm 
equipment)? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Result in inadequate emergency access? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
The project site is located within and adjacent to Poplar Creek, immediately north of the intersection 
of East Poplar Avenue and North Bayshore Boulevard. North Bayshore Boulevard runs parallel to 
US-101, a major highway that runs the length of the west coast. No streets, sidewalks, pedestrian 
trails, or bicycle paths run through the project site or its vicinity. 
Regulatory Setting 
The San Mateo 2030 General Plan Circulation Element focuses on human mobility such as public 
transit, bikeways, pedestrian routes, roadways, and parking facilities. The plan lists North Bayshore 
Boulevard as a Collector street. A collector street links neighborhoods to arterials and are not 
intended for through traffic but are nonetheless intended to move traffic in an efficient manner.87  
San Mateo County Transportation Authority Strategic Plan 2020-2024 
The San Mateo County Transportation Authority was established in 1988 through the approval of 
Measure A, a 20-year half-cent sales tax to fund and leverage other funding sources for 
transportation projects and programs in San Mateo County. The Strategic Plan identifies the policies, 
procedures, and methods for administering the expenditure of funds generated by Measure A and 
50 percent of funds generated by Measure W. Some of the relevant goals of the plan include: 
• 
Relieve traffic congestion countywide 
 
87 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo, 
2030 
General 
Plan 
– 
Circulation 
Element, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/44792/Circulation-Element--CAP-GPA-3-2-15?bidId=, accessed 
August 11, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
151 of 662

--- page 152 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
93 
• 
Invest in a financially sustainable public transportation system that increases ridership, 
embraces innovation, creates more transportation choices, improves travel experience, and 
provides quality, affordable transit options for youth, seniors, people with disabilities, and 
people with lower incomes 
• 
Implement environmentally-friendly transportation solutions and projects that incorporate 
green stormwater infrastructure and plan for climate change 
• 
Facilitate the reduction of vehicle miles traveled, travel times, and greenhouse gas emissions 
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
No Impact. The proposed project would not impact traffic on local roads or highways during 
construction or operation. The project would always maintain all lanes of traffic on 
surrounding roadways. Construction equipment would be staged in an existing ruderal 
grassland area adjacent to Poplar Creek. The area would be graded to allow for continued 
access to the trash capture device. There would be no impact to traffic on local roads or 
highways.  
b) 
Less than Significant Impact. A significant impact may occur if the proposed project were 
to be inconsistent with provisions outlined in CEQA Guidelines section 15064.3, subdivision 
(b), which sets forth criteria for analyzing transportation impacts. Under the CEQA 
Guidelines, a lead agency has discretion to choose the most appropriate methodology to 
evaluate a project’s vehicle miles traveled, including a qualitative analysis.  
Construction traffic (equipment and materials transport and daily worker traffic) would 
marginally increase traffic on local roads during the temporary construction phase of the 
proposed project. Temporary construction traffic would be limited to equipment delivery and 
material transport, and a few employee vehicles daily, which would be parked on-site at the 
gravel turnaround and out of the way of main streets. The temporary construction-related 
traffic would not result in a noticeable increase in traffic on local roads. 
 
The impact of maintenance vehicles during the operational phase would not significantly alter 
existing traffic conditions. One (1) maintenance vehicle would access the site. The impact of 
construction and maintenance vehicles would be less than significant.  
c) 
No Impact. The proposed project would install a trash capture device within Poplar Creek 
and would enhance vegetation around the creek’s banks. No work is proposed to roadways 
or pathways. The project would be constructed in accordance with City design standards that 
will ensure that hazards due to a design feature would be avoided. Therefore, impacts would 
be less than significant.  
d) 
No Impact. The proposed project is located within Poplar Creek Golf Course.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
152 of 662

--- page 153 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
94 
XVIII.TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES — Would 
the project? 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
No 
Impact 
a) 
Cause a substantial adverse change in the 
significance of a tribal cultural resource, defined in 
Public Resources Code section 21074 as either a 
site, feature, place, cultural landscape that is 
geographically defined in terms of size and scope of 
the landscape, sacred place, or object with cultural 
value to a California Native American tribe, and that 
is: 
 
 
 
 
i) 
Listed or eligible for listing in the California Register 
of Historical Resources, or in a local register of 
historical resources as defined in Public Resources 
Code section 5020.1(k)? 
 
 
 
 
ii) 
A resource determined by the lead agency, in its 
discretion and supported by substantial evidence, to 
be significant pursuant to criteria set forth in 
subdivision (c) of Public Resources Code section 
5024.1? In applying the criteria set forth in 
subdivision (c) of Public Resources Code section 
5024.1, the lead agency shall consider the 
significance of the resource to a California Native 
American tribe. 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
Tribal cultural resources are defined in CEQA Guidelines Section 21074 as sites, features, places, 
cultural landscapes, sacred places, and objects with cultural value to a California Native American 
tribe that are also either: (a) included or determined to be eligible for inclusion in the CRHR, or (b) 
included in a local register of historical resources, as defined in Public Resources Code section 
5020.1(k). A tribal cultural resource would be significantly affected if a project has the potential to 
substantially alter in an adverse manner the significant characteristics of the resource. Such an 
impact would result if such a resource were disturbed during construction. 
On October 21, 2021, the City of San Mateo sent out notification letters to Native American tribes 
pursuant to AB 52. On October 24, 2021, the Kanyon Sayers-Roods, a tribal representative on behalf 
of the Indian Canyon Band of Costanoan Ohlone People, responded to the request. Table 4 below 
shows the contact log documenting the City’s attempts to reach out to the tribal representative to 
inquire further about this request. The City did not receive a response from the tribe and concluded 
AB 52 consultation. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
153 of 662

--- page 154 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
95 
Table 4. Contact Log with Kanyon Sayers-Roods 
FROM 
TO 
DATE 
METHOD 
RESPONSE? 
City of San Mateo 
Kanyon Sayers-Roods 
October 21, 2021 
Email 
Yes 
Kanyon Sayers-Roods 
City of San Mateo 
October 24, 2021 
Email 
Yes 
City of San Mateo 
Kanyon Sayers-Roods 
October 26, 2021 
Email 
No 
City of San Mateo 
Kanyon Sayers-Roods 
November 17, 2021 
Phone Call 
No* 
City of San Mateo 
Kanyon Sayers-Roods 
November 17, 2021 
Email 
No  
City of San Mateo 
Kanyon Sayers-Roods 
November 23, 2021 
Phone Call 
No 
City of San Mateo 
Kanyon Sayers-Roods 
December 8, 2021 
Email 
No 
*Indicates that the City left a voice message. 
Regulatory Setting 
Assembly Bill 52 
In September 2014, the California Legislature passed AB 52, which added provisions to the Public 
Resources Code (PRC) concerning the evaluation of impacts on tribal cultural resources under 
CEQA, and consultation requirements with California Native American tribes. In particular, AB 52 
now requires lead agencies to analyze a project’s impacts on “tribal cultural resources,” separately 
from archaeological resources (PRC Section 21074; 21083.09). Under AB 52, “tribal cultural 
resources” include “sites, features, places, cultural landscapes, sacred places, and objects with 
cultural value to a California Native American tribe” that are either (1) listed, or determined to be 
eligible for listing, on the state or local register of historic resources; or (2) a resource that the lead 
agency chooses, in its discretion, to treat as a tribal cultural resource (PRC Section 21074).  
AB 52 also requires lead agencies to engage in additional consultation procedures with respect to 
California Native American tribes (PRC Sections 21080.3.1, 21080.3.2, 21082.3). If a project may 
have a significant impact on a tribal cultural resource, the lead agency’s environmental document 
must discuss (1) whether the proposed project has a significant impact on an identified tribal cultural 
resource and (2) whether feasible alternatives or mitigation measures avoid or substantially less the 
impact on the identified tribal cultural resource (PRC Section 21082.3(b)). Finally, AB 52 required 
the Office of Planning and Research to update Appendix G of the CEQA Guidelines by July 1, 2016, 
to provide sample questions regarding impacts to tribal cultural resources (PRC Section 21083.09). 
AB 52’s provisions apply to projects that have a notice of preparation filed on or after July 1, 2015. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
154 of 662

--- page 155 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
96 
Discussion of Impacts 
a-i, ii) Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated.  
 
As described above, the City did not receive a response from the Indian Canyon Band of 
Costanoan Ohlone People tribe and therefore concluded AB 52 consultation. 
 
The project is located within a concrete-lined channel and is on reclaimed and artificially filled 
land. As such, there is a low sensitivity for tribal cultural resources to be encountered during 
construction. All project work would occur within existing disturbed areas and no 
improvements would require additional large-scale excavation.  
Any prehistoric archaeological resources or human remains that may be encountered during 
construction could represent tribal cultural resources. In the unlikely event that archaeological 
resources or human remains are encountered during project activities, Mitigation Measure 
CULT-1 and CULT-2 would be implemented to ensure the discovery is preserved. Per Public 
Resources Code 5097.98 and Health and Human Safety Code 7050.5, if human remains are 
encountered, excavation or disturbance of the location shall be halted in the vicinity of the 
find, and the County Coroner contacted. If the Coroner determines the remains are Native 
American, the Coroner shall contact the Native American Heritage Commission, who shall 
identify the person or persons believed to be most likely descended from the deceased Native 
American in order to provide guidance on handling the remains. 
 
Implementation of Mitigation Measure CULT-1 and CULT-2 in Section V, along with 
compliance with State law, would ensure that impacts to tribal cultural resources would be 
less than significant. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
155 of 662

--- page 156 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
97 
XIX. UTILITIES AND SERVICE SYSTEMS — 
Would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
a) 
Require or result in the relocation or construction of 
new or expanded water, wastewater treatment or 
storm water drainage, electric power, natural gas, 
or telecommunications facilities, the construction or 
relocation of which could cause significant 
environmental effects? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Have sufficient water supplies available to serve 
the project and reasonably foreseeable future 
development during normal, dry and multiple dry 
years? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Result in a determination by the wastewater 
treatment provider which serves or may serve the 
project that it has adequate capacity to serve the 
project’s projected demand in addition to the 
provider’s existing commitments? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Generate solid waste in excess of State or local 
standards, or in excess of the capacity of local 
infrastructure, or otherwise impair the attainment of 
solid waste reduction goals? 
 
 
 
 
e) 
Comply with federal, state, and local management 
and reduction statutes and regulations related to 
solid waste? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
Storm Drainage 
The City of San Mateo Public Works Department operates and maintains 130 miles of storm drains, 
20 miles of open creeks and drainage channels, one (1) flood control lagoon, nine (9) pumping 
stations, and three (3) miles of bayfront levee.88 Stormwater from street runoff does not receive 
treatment before entering watercourses that ultimately empty into the San Francisco Bay.  
 
88 City of San Mateo, Storm Drainage System, https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2288/Storm-Drainage-System, 
accessed August 10, 2021.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
156 of 662

--- page 157 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
98 
Water 
The majority of the City of San Mateo, including the section where the project site is located, receives 
its water from the California Water Service Company (Cal Water) as part of the Mid-Peninsula 
District89. The Mid-Peninsula District serves San Mateo as well as San Carlos and parts of 
unincorporated Redwood City, The Highlands, and Palomar Park.  The service area is approximately 
17 square miles and includes 137,217 residents. The average daily demand of the district is 
12.90 million gallons per day.  The distribution system includes 22 pressure zones in San Carlos, 
18 in San Mateo, 62 booster pumps, 38 storage tanks, 2,832 hydrants, and 363 miles of main.90  
Solid Waste 
The average San Mateo resident produces 3.9 pounds of garbage a day and the average City 
employee produces 7.6 of garbage per day. This is less than the California average of 5.8 pounds 
per resident and 13.3 pounds per employee.91   
Recology provides solid waste and recycling collection services for the City of San Mateo. Upon 
collection, refuse is taken for sorting at the San Carlos Transfer Station. Non-recyclable waste is 
disposed of at the Ox Mountain Landfill in Half Moon Bay. The Ox Mountain landfill is permitted by 
the California Integrated Waste Management Board to receive 3,598 tons per day or 1.3 million tons 
per year. The landfill’s maximum capacity is 60.5 million cubic yards, with an estimated closure year 
of 2034.92 
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
Less than Significant Impact. The project would install a trash capture device within Poplar 
Creek, an intermittent, concrete-lined channel that is part of the City of San Mateo stormwater 
management system and the enhancement of vegetation along the creek’s banks. The 
stormwater conveyance capacity of the channel would not be significantly impacted, as 
discussed in the Hydrology and Water Quality. No electric power, natural gas, or 
communication-system facilities would be impacted by the project.  Impacts would be less 
than significant.  
b, c) 
Less than Significant Impact. Neither construction nor operation of the project would 
generate wastewater or consume potable water. Some water will be used to irrigate the 
stream enhancement area. The project would install a trash capture device within Poplar 
 
89 City of San Mateo, General Plan Update – Draft Environmental Impact Report, 4.11.4 Water Supply and Service, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/5221/4_11-Public-Services?bidId=, accessed August 24, 2021.  
90 Bay Area Water Supply & Conservation District, California Water Service – Mid-Peninsula District, 
https://bawsca.org/members/profiles/mid-peninsula, accessed August 24, 2021. 
91 City of San Mateo, Recycling, Compost, and Garbage, https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2076/Recycling-Compost-and-
Garbage, accessed August 10, 2021.  
92 CalRecycle, Solid Waste Facility Permit – Corinda Los Trancos Landfill (Ox Mountain). April 12, 2017.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
157 of 662

--- page 158 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
99 
Creek. The project would not increase the residential or employment population of the area. 
As such, there would be less-than-significant impacts related to water supply and wastewater 
treatment capacity. 
d, e) 
Less than Significant Impact. The project would generate soil spoils and solid waste from 
grading of the staging area and saw cutting of the existing concrete-lined channel during 
construction. In total, approximately 30 CY of fill would be removed and disposed of during 
construction. During operation, solid waste would be generated from the removal of 
accumulated debris from the trash capture device. The trash capture device has the ability 
to capture 8.8 cubic feet of litter when the screen is 50 percent full. Monthly visual inspections 
during the wet season would ensure that the device would be cleaned once the 50 percent 
capacity threshold has been reached. This is anticipated to occur two (2) to three (3) times 
per year. At this rate, the maximum amount of trash that would be removed and transported 
to the Ox Mountain landfill per year would be approximately 26.4 cubic feet. The Ox Mountain 
Landfill has capacity to support the projected amount of trash collected by proposed trash 
rack device. Any materials used during construction would be properly disposed of in 
accordance with federal, state, and local regulations. Impacts related to solid waste facilities, 
statutes, and regulations would be less than significant. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
158 of 662

--- page 159 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
100 
XX. WILDFIRE — If located in or near state 
responsibility areas or lands classified as very high 
fire hazard severity zones, would the project: 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
No 
Impact 
a) 
Substantially impair an adopted emergency response plan 
or emergency evacuation plan? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Due to slope, prevailing winds, and other factors, 
exacerbate wildfire risks, and thereby expose project 
occupants to pollutant concentrations from a wildfire or the 
uncontrolled spread of a wildfire? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Require the installation or maintenance of associated 
infrastructure (such as roads, fuel breaks, emergency water 
sources, power lines or other utilities) that may exacerbate 
fire risk or that may result in temporary or ongoing impacts 
to the environment? 
 
 
 
 
d) 
Expose people or structures to significant risks, including 
downslope or downstream flooding or landslides, as a 
result of runoff, post-fire slope instability, or drainage 
changes? 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Setting 
CAL FIRE maps identify fire hazard severity zones in the State and local responsibility areas. There 
are no wildland fire hazard areas within the City of San Mateo.93 The proposed project site is within 
a concrete-lined channel and a maintained golf course with very little slope. 
Discussion of Impacts 
a-d) 
No Impact. The project site is flat, outside the Wildland Urban Interface, and is not 
considered a High Severity Zone for wildfire. There would be no impact.  
 
QAEFB002093 
City 
of 
San 
Mateo, 
General 
Plan 
– 
Safety 
Element, 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/7168/Safety-Element2010?bidId=, accessed August 
3, 2021. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
159 of 662

--- page 160 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
101 
XXI. MANDATORY FINDINGS OF SIGNIFICANCE 
Potentially 
Significant 
Impact 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact with 
Mitigation 
Incorporated 
Less than 
Significant 
Impact 
No 
Impact 
a) 
Does the project have the potential to substantially 
degrade 
the 
quality 
of 
the 
environment, 
substantially reduce the habitat of a fish or wildlife 
species, cause a fish or wildlife population to drop 
below self-sustaining levels, threaten to eliminate a 
plant or animal community, substantially reduce the 
number or restrict the range of a rare or 
endangered plant or animal or eliminate important 
examples of the major periods of California history 
or prehistory? 
 
 
 
 
b) 
Does the project have impacts that are individually 
limited, 
but 
cumulatively 
considerable? 
(“Cumulatively considerable” means that the 
incremental effects of a project are considerable 
when viewed in connection with the effects of past 
projects, the effects of other current projects, and 
the effects of probable future projects)? 
 
 
 
 
c) 
Does the project have environmental effects that 
will cause substantial adverse effects on human 
beings, either directly or indirectly? 
 
 
 
 
Discussion of Impacts 
a) 
Less than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. As discussed in prior sections 
of this IS/MND, the project would not degrade the quality of the environment, substantially 
affect biological resources, or eliminate important examples of California history or prehistory 
with implementation of the identified mitigation measures. As discussed in Section III, Air 
Quality, implementation of Mitigation Measure AIR-1 would reduce potentially significant air 
quality impacts to a less-than-significant level. As discussed in Section IV, Biological 
Resources, implementation of Mitigation Measure BIO-1 would reduce impacts to nesting 
birds to a less-than-significant level. As discussed in Section V, Cultural Resources, 
implementation of Mitigation Measures CULT-1 and CULT-2 would reduce impacts to historic 
resources, archaeological resources, and human remains to a less-than-significant level. As 
discussed in Section XIII, Noise, temporary noise impacts generated during construction of 
the project would be reduced to a less-than-significant level with implementation of Mitigation 
Measure NOI-1. Therefore, significant project-level impacts can all be mitigated to a 
less-than-significant level with mitigation incorporated.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
160 of 662

--- page 161 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
102 
b) 
Less Than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. Cumulatively considerable 
means that the incremental effects of an individual project are considerable when viewed in 
connection with the effects of past projects, the effects of other current projects, and the 
effects of probable future projects. The analysis within this IS/MND demonstrates that the 
project would not have any individually limited, but cumulatively considerable impacts. As 
presented in the analysis in Section III, Air Quality, Section IV, Biological Resources, 
Section V, Cultural Resources, Section XIII, Noise, and Section XVIII, Tribal Cultural 
Resources, any potentially significant impacts would be less than significant after mitigation. 
Due to the limited scope of direct physical impacts to the environment associated with 
construction, the project’s impacts are project-specific in nature. Compliance with the 
conditions of approval issued for the proposed development would further assure that 
project-level impacts would not be cumulatively considerable. Consequently, the project 
along with other cumulative projects would create a less than significant cumulative impact 
with respect to all environmental issues. 
c) 
Less Than Significant Impact with Mitigation Incorporated. Consistent with Section 
15065(a)(4) of the CEQA Guidelines, a lead agency shall find that a project may have a 
significant effect on the environment where there is substantial evidence that the project has 
the potential to cause substantial adverse effects on human beings, either directly or 
indirectly. Under this standard, a change to the physical environment that might otherwise be 
minor must be treated as significant if people would be significantly affected. This factor 
relates to adverse changes to the environment of human beings generally, and not to effects 
on particular individuals. While changes to the environment that could indirectly affect human 
beings would be represented by all the designated CEQA issue areas, those that could 
directly affect human beings include construction air quality, hazardous materials, and noise. 
The proposed project would adhere to General Plan policies and implement mitigation 
measures to reduce potential impacts to a less than significant level. Section III, Air Quality, 
implementation of Mitigation Measure AIR-1 would reduce potentially significant air quality 
impacts to a less-than-significant level. As discussed in Section XIII, Noise, temporary noise 
impacts generated during construction of the project would be reduced to a 
less-than-significant level with implementation of Mitigation Measure NOI-1. No other direct 
or indirect adverse effects on human beings have been identified. Impacts on human beings 
would be less than significant with implementation of mitigation measures.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
161 of 662

--- page 162 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
                                                                              January March 2022 
 
103 
REPORT PREPARATION 
City of San Mateo – CEQA Lead Agency 
Stephanie Gindlesperger PE, Senior Engineer 
Elton Yee PE, Associate Engineer 
Schaaf & Wheeler – Project Engineer 
Caitlin Gilmore, P.E., Senior Project Manager 
WRA, Inc. – CEQA and Regulatory Permits Consultant 
Justin Semion, Principal 
Jemma Williams, Project Manager 
Tali Ashurov, Senior Environmental Planner 
Eliza Schlein, Biologist 
Michael Rochelle, GIS Professional 
 
Tom Origer & Associates – CEQA Cultural Resources Subconsultant 
Taylor Alshuth, Associate 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
162 of 662

--- page 163 ---
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project                                                                    Final Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
City of San Mateo  
 
     
 
 
 
      January March 2022 
 
104 
 
This page intentionally left blank.  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
163 of 662

--- page 164 ---
Appendix A. Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project Preliminary 
Location Hydraulic Impact Study  
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
164 of 662

--- page 165 ---
MEMORANDUM 
 
TO: 
Elton Yee, City of San Mateo 
DATE: 
October 23rd 2020 
 
 
 
 
FROM: 
Caitlin Gilmore, PE 
JOB#: 
CSMT.50.20 
 
 
 
 
SUBJECT: 
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project Preliminary Location Hydraulics 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this memorandum is to the provide preliminary hydraulic impacts of trash capture devices 
at two potential locations along the City drainage channel for the Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture 
project.  
Figure 1 – Project Alternative Locations 
 
 
 
 
Schaaf & Wheeler 
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS 
1171 Homestead Rd., Suite 255 
Santa Clara, CA 95050-5485 
t. 408-246-4848 
f.  408-246-5624 
s&w@swsv.com 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
165 of 662

--- page 166 ---
City of San Mateo Poplar Golf Course Trash Device Hydraulics 
October 23, 2020 
 
 
Schaaf & Wheeler 
Page 2 
 
Project Description 
The proposed project will consist of installing netting or screening device(s) within the existing City storm 
drain channel located on the southwest corner of Poplar Creek Golf Course. The channel is trapezoidal 
and concrete. A weir will be installed across the channel to attach the trash device(s) and allow for the 
bypass of flows greater than the treatment event over the weir. The channel drains portions of the City of 
San Mateo and Caltrans ROW, specifically Highway 101 and El Camino Real, and discharges to the 
forebay of the City’s Poplar Pump Station. Both the Roscoe Moss Storm Flo and the OldCastle Net-Tech 
devices are being considered and are covered by this analysis, however the (2) 40’ Roscoe Moss 30” 
diameter screens are depicted in Figure 1. 
For the purposes of this preliminary study a weir height of three feet was assumed to support the trash 
device(s) and assumes the trash devices are full. An existing MIKE URBAN hydraulic model of the City 
storm drain network was utilized to compare the impacts of weir placement in the channel at locations 
#1 and #2 to the existing condition. The model, developed by Schaaf & Wheeler on behalf of the City for 
the design of the Poplar pump station, uses a 100-year 72-hour design storm. This storm event was used 
to compare impacts of the device location.  
Hydraulic Impacts 
Location #2 (green), due to its proximity to the culverts under North Bayshore and Highway 101, results 
in approximately three feet of head loss at the project location. This increases the hydraulic grade 
upstream of the project site location of two to three feet which extends throughout the City system west 
of Highway 101. The Location #2 hydraulic grade line is depicted in Figure 2 below in green. By placing a 
blockage in the reach upstream of the maintenance yard access bridge, the head loss due to the culverts 
under Highway 101 is exacerbated.  
Location #1 (red) is further from the freeway culverts and within the backwater associated with the 
Poplar pump station forebay, downstream of the access road bridge. Due to both the backwater effects 
and the distancing from the culverts, there is significantly lower head loss generated by the device, on 
the order of approximately one foot total. The loss dissipates upstream as shown by the red hydraulic 
grade line in the system profile in Figure 2 which is nearer to the existing condition in dark blue. 
The furthest upstream location the device can be placed without significant hydraulic impact to the storm 
drain system is just downstream of the maintenance yard access bridge.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
166 of 662

--- page 167 ---
City of San Mateo Poplar Golf Course Trash Device Hydraulics 
October 23, 2020 
 
 
Schaaf & Wheeler 
Page 3 
 
Figure 2 – System Profile 
 
Location 2 
Location 1 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
167 of 662

--- page 168 ---
Appendix B. Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Device 75 Percent 
Plans 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
168 of 662

--- page 169 ---
NB HWY 101
CONSTRUCTION
ACCESS
SB HWY 101
CONSTRUCTION
ACCESS
PROJECT
SITE
E. POPLAR AVE
E. POPLAR AVE
N. BAYSHORE BLVD
PENINSULA AVE
N. HUMBOLT ST
N. DELAWARE ST
101
POPLAR CREEK
GOLF COURSE
COYOTE
POINT
DR
BAY
AIRPORT BLVD
N. AMPHLETT BLVD
MONTE DIABLO AVE
HARBOR
VIEW PARK
TRAIL
SAN FRANCIS
DORE AVE
1
PLANS FOR
POPLAR AT GOLF COURSE TRASH CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
CITY PROJECT NO. XXX
CO.
SANTA CLARA
PREPARED UNDER THE DIRECTION OF
CAITLIN J. GILMORE
R.C.E 76810, EXPIRES 12/31/22
SCHAAF & WHEELER CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
DATE
CITY OF SAN MATEO RELEASE FOR CONSTRUCTION
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO HEREBY ACCEPTS THESE PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION, AS BEING IN GENERAL
COMPLIANCE WITH PLAN PREPARATION REQUIREMENTS OF THIS GOVERNMENT. RESPONSIBILITY FOR
THE COMPLETENESS AND ACCURACY OF THE PLANS AND RELATED DESIGNS RESIDES WITH THE
ENGINEER AND ENGINEERING FIRM OF RECORD.
Azalea Mitch
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DATE
MATTHEW ZUCCA
PUBLIC WORKS DEPUTY DIRECTOR
CITY OF SAN MATEO
<GARY HEAP, CATHI ZAMMIT OR HAEWON RITCHIE>
ENGINEERING MANAGER
CITY OF SAN MATEO
<SENIOR ENGINEER NAME>
SENIOR ENGINEER
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DATE
DATE
DATE
LOCATION MAP
NOT TO SCALE
NOT TO SCALE
VICINITY MAP
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: CYT
DESIGNED BY: CYT
QC CHECKED BY: CJG
PROJECT No. XXX
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR AT GOLF COURSE
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXX
(415) 433-4848
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94102
870 MARKET STREET, SUITE 1278
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
Schaaf    Wheeler
SHEET NUMBERS AND TITLES
1
 
TITLE SHEET
2
IMPROVEMENT PLAN AND PROFILE
3
 
CONSTRUCTION DETAILS
4
 
SMCWPPP CONSTRUCTION BMPs
BASIS OF BEARINGS
THE BEARING OF NORTH 48° 39' EAST TAKEN ON THE SOUTHERN ROW LINE OF ROGELL AVENUE AS SHOWN ON
THAT CERTAIN SUBDIVISION MAP NUMBER 237, FILED FOR RECORD ON JANUARY 15, 1981, IN BOOK 50 OF MAPS AT
PAGE 95, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY WAS TAKEN AS THE BASIS FOR ALL BEARINGS SHOWN
HEREON.
BACK FLOW PREVENTOR
CHAIN LINK FENCE
CONCRETE
CUBIC FEET
ELECTRICAL
EDGE OF WALK
EXISTING
INNER DIAMETER
LANDSCAPE
LIP OF GUTTER
NOT TO SCALE
BFP
CLF
C, CONC
CU . FT
ELEC,
EW
(EX)
ID
L/S
LIP
NTS
OD
OHWM
SD
SF
TC
TOB
TOE
TOP
TPZ
TR
WM
OUTER  DIAMETER
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK
STORM DRAIN
SQUARE FEET
TOP OF CURB
TOP OF BANK
TOE OF SLOPE
TOP OF SLOPE
TREE PROTECTION  ZONE
TREE
WATER  METER
GENERAL NOTES
ABBREVIATIONS
BENCHMARKS
1.
ALL MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP SHALL CONFORM TO THE GENERAL AND SPECIFIC PROVISIONS, STANDARD DRAWINGS, AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO.
2.
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE CITY OF SAN MATEO  AT LEAST 48 HOURS IN ADVANCE OF THE START OF ANY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.  ALL UTILITY SHUTDOWNS ARE TO BE COORDINATED
THROUGH THE CITY PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.  ANY TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF THE WORK OR SUBSEQUENT RESUMPTION OF WORK REQUIRES THE NOTIFICATION OF THE CITY AND THE
ENGINEER.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL EXCAVATE AND EXPOSE ALL UTILITY CROSSINGS OR CONNECTIONS AFFECTED BY THE WORK.  ALL EXISTING UTILITIES  SHALL BE ADEQUATELY SUPPORTED AND PROTECTED
TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE CITY.  IN THE EVENT OF DAMAGE TO ANY UTILITY OCCASIONED BY THE CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS, THE CONTRACTOR, AT HIS SOLE COST AND EXPENSE, WILL
IMMEDIATELY CAUSE REPAIRS TO BE MADE TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE AFFECTED UTILITY.  NOTIFY THE ENGINEER OF ANY ADJUSTMENTS NECESSITATED BY WAY OF CONFLICT WITH EXISTING
UTILITIES.
4.
CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ALL LIGHTS, SIGNS, BARRICADES, FLAG MEN, CONES OR OTHER DEVICES NECESSARY TO PROVIDE FOR PUBLIC SAFETY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SPECIFICATIONS.
5.
CONTRACTOR SHALL REPLACE, AT HIS EXPENSE, ALL TREES, SHRUBS, LAWNS, FENCES, IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND IMPROVEMENTS WHICH ARE TO REMAIN INTACT BUT HAVE BEEN REMOVED OR
DAMAGED DURING CONSTRUCTION.  CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT REMOVE OR DAMAGE IMPROVEMENTS LOCATED WITHIN CITY PROPERTY WITHOUT WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM THE CITY; OR FROM
PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM THE PROPERTY OWNER.
6.
ALL DIMENSIONS SHALL BE FIELD VERIFIED BY CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. IF FIELD CONDITIONS VARY  SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE CONSTRUCTION PLANS, CONTRACTOR SHALL
INFORM THE ENGINEER IMMEDIATELY.
7.
BEFORE DIGGING, CALL UNDERGROUND SERVICE ALERT (USA) AT 811.  CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE WITH USA TO LOCATE EXISTING UTILITIES AND EXCAVATE WITH CAUTION TO AVOID
UTILITY DAMAGE.  CONTRACTOR IS LIABLE FOR ALL UTILITY DAMAGE REPAIR AS A RESULT OF HIS OPERATIONS.
8.
CONTRACTOR SHALL EXERCISE DUE CARE AND CONCERN TO AVOID INJURY TO EXISTING FACILITIES IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, AND PROPERTY.  CONTRACTOR TO REPLACE OR RESTORE TO
INITIAL CONDITIONS ANY FACILITIES, IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, OR OTHER PROPERTY DAMAGED OR DISTURBED AS A RESULT OF CONSTRUCTION.
9.
CONTRACTOR AGREES TO ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING  SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND
PROPERTY; THAT THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY AND NOT BE LIMITED TO NORMAL WORKING HOURS; AND THAT THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE
CITY AND ENGINEER HARMLESS FORM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT ARISING FORM
THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE CITY OR ENGINEER.
10. CONTRACTOR SHALL LOCATE ELECTRICAL TRENCHES TO AVOID EXISTING UTILITIES. CONTRACTOR SHALL  PROTECT EXISTING UTILITIES IN PLACE AS REQUIRED BY TRENCH INSTALLATION.
11. CONTRACTOR TO MAINTAIN A MEANS OF ACCESS TO PROPERTIES, DRIVEWAYS, AND DWELLINGS AT ALL TIMES.
12. IT IS THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO REPLACE ALL STREET MONUMENTS, LOT CORNER PIPES, AND GRADE STAKES DISTURBED DURING THE PROCESS OF CONSTRUCTION AT THE
DIRECTION OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
13.
ALL SURPLUS AND UNSUITABLE MATERIAL SHALL BE REMOVED FROM THE SITE AND PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
14.
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NEITHER WASTE NOR DEPOSIT ANY HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON THE GRADING SURFACES OR WITHIN THE GRADED CUT AND FILL AREAS OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO GASOLINE OR DIESEL FUELS, MOTOR OILS OR TRANSMISSION FLUIDS, ANTIFREEZE, HYDRAULIC FLUIDS, LUBRICANTS, STARTING FLUIDS AND FILTERS, AND/OR CONTAINERS
FOR THESE PRODUCTS. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SPILLS THAT OCCUR AS A RESULT OF EITHER EQUIPMENT FAILURES OR VANDALISM, INCLUDING ALL ADJACENT CONTAMINATED SOILS, SHALL BE
REMOVED AND TRANSPORTED TO AN ENVIRONMENTALLY APPROVED DISPOSAL SITE.  ALL REMOVAL, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL COSTS SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
CONTRACTOR OR HIS SUBCONTRACTORS.
15. OVERNIGHT PARKING OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT IN THE STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY SHALL NOT BE PERMITTED, EXCEPT AT LOCATION(S) APPROVED BY THE CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
16. CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE W/ CITY AND PROPERTY OWNER IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SPECIFICATIONS PRIOR TO PERFORMING ANY WORK IN CITY YARD.
17.
WORK IS LIMITED TO THE SUMMER MONTHS, BETWEEN APRIL 15 AND OCTOBER 31.  CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT WORK WHEN THERE HAS BEEN MORE THAN 0.25-INCH OF RAIN IN THE PREVIOUS 24
HOURS AND THERE IS A MORE THAN 40% CHANCE OF RAIN OCCURRING. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL RAINWATER, STORMWATER AND GROUNDWATER CONTROL PER PROJECT
SPECIFICATIONS.
18. CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY, BY CIRCULAR, AS DIRECTED BY THE ENGINEER, ALL BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS AND RESIDENCES AFFECTED BY THE WORK, AT LEAST 48 HOURS PRIOR  TO THE
START OF CONSTRUCTION. CIRCULAR SHALL BE SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS/ CITY ENGINEER.
19. NO CHANGE TO THE PROJECT IMPROVEMENT PLANS SHALL BE PERMITTED WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL BY THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS/ CITY ENGINEER.
20. ALL PERMANENT IMPROVEMENTS REMOVED OR DAMAGED BY THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESTORED TO THEIR ORIGINAL LOCATION AND CONDITION BY THE CONTRACTOR USING NEW MATERIALS
AS DIRECTED BY THE ENGINEER.
21. CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM HIS CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION IN A MANNER WHICH WILL NOT ALLOW HARMFUL POLLUTANTS TO ENTER WATER COURSES OR SAN FRANCISCO BAY. TO
ENSURE COMPLIANCE, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL IMPLEMENT THE APPROPRIATE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) AS OUTLINED IN THE BROCHURES TITLED "CONSTRUCTION BEST
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES" ISSUED BY THE SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PROGRAM, TO SUIT THE CONSTRUCTION SITE AND JOB CONDITION. THE CONTRACTOR
SHALL PRESENT HIS PROPOSED BMP AT THE PRE-CONSTUCTION MEETING FOR DISCUSSION AND APPROVAL.
22. CONTRACTOR SHALL CONTROL DUST ACCORDING TO THE SPECIFICATIONS.
23. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR HANDLING STORM DRAIN AND CREEK WATER DURING CONSTRUCTION.
TITLE SHEET
SAN MATEO COUNTY BENCHMARK "BM O55-005", SOUTHWESTERLY BOLT OF ELECTROLIER LOCATED AT THE EAST
CORNER OF DORE AVENUE AND KINGSTON STREET. ELEVATION 98.344 FEET, CITY OF SAN MATEO DATUM.
TO OBTAIN ELEVATIONS IN NAVD88 DATUM, SUBTRACT 94.94 FEET.
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
169 of 662

--- page 170 ---
N 
(
A
-
1' WIDE WEIR
35'
1'
2'-2"
REMOVE OAK
TREE
REMOVE DEAD
TREE AND
BRANCHES
MATCH (EX)
99.1
MATCH (EX)
TOP OF
BANK 98.2
CAUTION -
PROTECT OH
ELECTRIC
(4)18" Ø ROSCOE MOSS
STORMFLO FULL
TRASH  CAPTURE
DEVICES. SEE DETAIL
1, SHEET C3
TRIM
OVERHANGING
BRANCHES IN
CHANNEL
53'-1"
16'
MATCH (EX)
TOP OF
BANK 99.6
1'-3"
5'
5'
6'
10'-8"
3'-6"
1'-7"
25'-2"
1'-5"
LIMITS OF
WORK
PROTECT
BACK
FLOW
PREVENTOR
MATCH (EX)
99.1
TEMPORARY
DEWATERING
AREA
(1474 SF)
TEMPORARY
FLEXIBLE
PLASTIC
BYPASS
PIPING
SITE PARKING AND
STAGING AREA (864 SF),
SEE DETAIL 3 SHEET C3
REMOVE VEGETATION AND
GRADE PERMEABLE
ASPHALT PARKING PAD TO
EXISTING GROUND
ELEVATION
320 CU. FT OF
PERMANENT FILL
BELOW BANK AND
236 CU. FT OF
PERMANENT FILL
BELOW OHWM IN
CHANNEL
(INCLUDES WEIR,
TRASH CAPTURE
DEVICES, AND
TRASH CAPTURE
ANCHOR PLATE)
488 SF FOOTPRINT OF
IMPACT BELOW BANK
AND 361 SF FOOTPRINT
OF IMPACT BELOW
OHWM (INCLUDES WEIR,
CONCRETE
REPLACEMENT,  TRASH
CAPTURE DEVICES, AND
TRASH CAPTURE
ANCHOR PLATE)
2' WIDE DEWATERING
COFFERDAM
OHWM LINE
10' WIDE CHANNEL
REPLACEMENT
TRASH CAPTURE
DEVICE ANCHOR
PLATE
6' WIDE DEWATERING
COFFERDAM
18" Ø OPENING FOR
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICE
18" Ø TRASH
CAPTURE
DEVICE. SEE
SHEET 3
3' HIGH
WEIR WALL
APPROX. BANK
PROFILE
EXISTING CONCRETE
LINED CHANNEL
INVERT
EXISTING  58"x
36" ELLIPTICAL
DRAIN OUTLET
HIGH
COFFERDAM
 TEMPORARY
FLEXIBLE
BYPASS PIPE
HIGH
COFFERDAM
6'
2'-2"
SCALE: 1 INCH = 4 FEET
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: CYT
DESIGNED BY: CYT
QC CHECKED BY: VB
PROJECT No. XXXXX
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR GOLF COURSE TRASH
CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXXXX
(415) 433-4848
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94102
870 MARKET STREET, SUITE 1278
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
Schaaf    Wheeler
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
IMPROVEMENT PLAN AND PROFILE
2
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
SITE PLAN
SCALE: 1"=4'
SECTION
-
A
PROJECT IMPACT
TEMPORARY IMPACT BELOW BANK
(340 SF) AND BELOW OHWM (206
SF)
COFFERDAM
BYPASS PIPE
PERMANENT IMPACT BELOW BANK
(1465 SF) AND BELOW OHWM (361
SF)
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES AND
ANCHOR PLATES
WEIR
10' WIDE CHANNEL REPLACEMENT
PERMEABLE ASPHALT PARKING
PAD
SCALE: 1"=4'
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
170 of 662

--- page 171 ---
1"
2"
2"
5/8"
38"
6"
38"
6"
234"
4"
1916"
11516"
4"
1'-4"
112"
12"
14"
14 ROWS
8 ROWS
2"
14"
916"
4"
Ø1'-658"
2"
114"
2'-2"
1'-1"
Ø7/8"
2"
LATCHES 2 PLACES
LOCATED SAME AS HINGES
3'
16"
8"
4"
4"
14"
Ø1'-718"
LATCHES 2 PLACES
LOCATED SAME AS HINGES
3'
16
11516"
304 SS
4"x4" HINGE 1/4" THICK WITH HATCH STOP
2 PLACES ON HATCH
5"
2"
38"
2"
8"
23 4"
2"
112"
1/2" THICK ANCHOR PLATE
2'-2"
INFLOW VIEW
Ø1'-618"
1'
2"
Ø1'-65 8"
1'-9"
1'-1118"
PIPE SUPPORT & COUPLING DETAILS
SADDLE TYPE WITH Ø18-5/8" ID HALF COUPLING 4"
WIDE
COUPLING COLLAR
Ø1'-658"
1'
BASE PLATE
10"
END SUPPORT
OUTFLOW VIEW
PERFORATED END
PLATE
END SECTIONS
Ø18-5/8" OD, 1/4" WALL PIPE 14 ROWS OF LOUVER 0.200" OPENING
SIZE 2-5/8 MINIMUM LENGTH. MATERIAL ROLLED TO PIPE PRIOR TO
PERFORATING
2"
2"
5"
2"
2"
16"
MIDDLE SECTION(S)
Ø18-5/8" OD, 1/4" WALL PIPE 14 ROWS OF LOUVER 0.200" OPENING
SIZE 2-5/8 MINIMUM LENGTH. MATERIAL ROLLED TO PIPE PRIOR TO
PERFORATING
5'
TWO HANDLES WELDED ON EACH HATCH
(LOCATE TYP TO HINGE LOCATION)
1'
234"
OVERFLOW SECTION
Ø18-5/8" OD, 1/4" WALL PIPE 14 ROWS OF LOUVER 0.200" OPENING SIZE
2-5/8" MINIMUM LENGTH AND
WITH 12"x16" OVERFLOW WINDOW
1/2" THICK ANCHOR PLATE
2'-3"
3'
2"
2"
2"
GENERAL NOTES:
1.  SCREEN PIPE MANUFACTURED ACCORDING TO ASTM A778
2.  HATCHES TO HAVE A MECHANICAL STOP TO HOLD ON OPEN POSITION,
MATERIAL THICKNESS 1/2"
3.  HATCH OPENINGS TO HAVE A 1" X 1/4" BAR FOR FRAME SUPPORT AND SEAT
FOR HATCH
4. LATCHES TO BE RATED AT 907Kg, 304L ALL AMERICAN MODEL #341-SS OR
COMPARABLE
5.  304L HINGES 1/4" THICK LEAF, 4" x 4" OPEN DIMENSION, Ø5/8 BRASS PIN
6.  ALL MATERIALS TO BE 316 SS UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED
7.  WELDING TO CONFORM WITH AWS D1.6 2017 ED PRE-QUALIFIED
8. ALL DIMENSIONS IN INCHES UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
9.  FRACTIONAL TOLERANCES ± 1/4" FOR DIAMETERS UP TO  24"OD AND ± 1/2 FOR
DIAMETERS ABOVE 24" OD
10.  HATCH OPENING ORIENTATION TO MATCH CONFIGURATION AS DETAILED IN
CE&G PROJECT PLANS
10'
23 4"
10"
5"
10'
10"
234"
2'-4"
3'
16"
234"
10"
NOTES:
1. TREE PROTECTED ZONE (TPZ), HAS RADIUS
OF 10 FEET OR 10-TIMES THE DIAMETER OF
THE TREE, WHICHEVER IS GREATER
2. ANY PROPOSED TRENCH OR FORM WORK
WITHIN THE TPZ OF A PROTECTED TREE
REQUIRES APPROVAL FROM THE ARBORIST
3. TREE FENCING IS REQUIRED AND SHALL BE
ERECTED BEFORE DEMOLITION, GRADING, OR
CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
3
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: CYT
DESIGNED BY: CYT
QC CHECKED BY: CJG
PROJECT No. XXX
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR AT GOLF COURSE
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXX
(415) 433-4848
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94102
870 MARKET STREET, SUITE 1278
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
Schaaf    Wheeler
CONSTRUCTION DETAILS
64#5*%#2674'&'8+%'
Ä

NTS
64''2416'%6+10&'6#+.
Ä

NTS
5+6'2#8'/'06&'6#+.
Ä

NTS
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
171 of 662

--- page 172 ---
4
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: CYT
DESIGNED BY: CYT
QC CHECKED BY: CJG
PROJECT No. XXX
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR AT GOLF COURSE
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXX
(415) 433-4848
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94102
870 MARKET STREET, SUITE 1278
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
Schaaf    Wheeler
SMCWPPP CONSTRUCTION BMP's
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
172 of 662

--- page 173 ---
GENERAL
CONCRETE
REINFORCING STEEL
SHOP DRAWINGS / CONSTRUCTION SUBMITTALS (DEFERRED)
CONSTRUCTION LIABILITY
ABBREVIATIONS
STATEMENT OF SPECIAL INSPECTIONS
MISCELLANEOUS
3
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: REM
DESIGNED BY: TEE
QC CHECKED BY: JAF
PROJECT No. 21-124.2
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR GOLF COURSE TRASH
CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXXXX
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
DATE: 08/26/21
DATE: 08/26/21
DATE: 08/26/21
Finn Design Group, Inc.
FDG
1
GENERAL STRUCTURAL NOTES & SPECIFICATIONS
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
173 of 662

--- page 174 ---
2
3
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: REM
DESIGNED BY: TEE
QC CHECKED BY: JAF
PROJECT No. 21-124.2
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR GOLF COURSE TRASH
CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXXXX
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
DATE: 08/26/21
DATE: 08/26/21
DATE: 08/26/21
Finn Design Group, Inc.
FDG
FOUNDATION PLAN
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
174 of 662

--- page 175 ---
3
3
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: REM
DESIGNED BY: TEE
QC CHECKED BY: JAF
PROJECT No. 21-124.2
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR GOLF COURSE TRASH
CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXXXX
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
DATE: 08/26/21
DATE: 08/26/21
DATE: 08/26/21
Finn Design Group, Inc.
FDG
SECTIONS & DETAILS
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
175 of 662

--- page 176 ---
Appendix C. Biological Resources Technical Report 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
176 of 662

--- page 177 ---
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES TECHNICAL REPORT 
POPLAR AT GOLF COURSE TRASH CAPTURE PROJECT 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA 
Prepared for: 
Prepared by: 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave.  
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Attn: Matthew P. Zucca 
mzucca@cityofsanmateo.org 
WRA, Inc. 
2169-G East Francisco Boulevard 
San Rafael, CA 94901 
Attn: Jemma Williams 
Williams@wra-ca.com 
WRA #30159 
OCTOBER 2021
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
177 of 662

--- page 178 ---
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
178 of 662

--- page 179 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page i 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1.0 INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................1 
1.1 Overview and Purpose ........................................................................................................................ 1 
1.2 Project Description .............................................................................................................................. 1 
1.3 Summary of Results ............................................................................................................................ 2 
2.0 REGULATORY BACKGROUND ........................................................................................................5 
2.1 Federal and State Regulatory Setting ................................................................................................. 5 
2.1.1 Vegetation and Aquatic Communities ......................................................................................... 5 
2.1.2 Special-status Species .................................................................................................................. 6 
2.2 Local Plans and Policies ....................................................................................................................... 8 
3.0 ASSESSMENT METHODOLOGY ......................................................................................................9 
3.1 Vegetation Communities and Other Land Cover Types ...................................................................... 9 
3.2 Special-status Species ....................................................................................................................... 10 
3.3 Wildlife Corridors and Native Wildlife Nursery Sites ........................................................................ 10 
4.0 ECOLOGICAL SETTING ................................................................................................................. 11 
4.1 Soils and Topography ........................................................................................................................ 11 
4.2 Climate and Hydrology ...................................................................................................................... 11 
4.3 Land-use ............................................................................................................................................ 11 
5.0 ASSESSMENT RESULTS ................................................................................................................ 12 
5.1 Vegetation Communities and Other Land Cover .............................................................................. 12 
5.1.1 Terrestrial Land Cover ................................................................................................................ 12 
5.1.2 Aquatic Resources ...................................................................................................................... 13 
5.2 Special-status Species ....................................................................................................................... 14 
5.2.1 Special-status Plants .................................................................................................................. 14 
5.2.2 Special-status Wildlife ................................................................................................................ 14 
5.3 Wildlife Corridors and Native Wildlife Nursery Sites ........................................................................ 16 
6.0 ANALYTICAL METHODOLOGY AND SIGNIFICANCE THRESHOLD CRITERIA ...................................... 18 
7.0 IMPACTS AND MITIGATION EVALUATION ................................................................................... 19 
7.1 Special-status Species ....................................................................................................................... 19 
7.2 Sensitive Natural Communities and Land Cover Types .................................................................... 20 
7.3 Aquatic Resources ............................................................................................................................. 20 
7.4 Wildlife Corridors and Native Wildlife Nursery Sites ........................................................................ 20 
7.5 Local Policies and Ordinances ........................................................................................................... 21 
7.6 Habitat Conservation Plans ............................................................................................................... 22 
8.0 REFERENCES ............................................................................................................................... 23 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
179 of 662

--- page 180 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page ii 
 
LIST OF TABLES 
Table 1. Summary of Biological Resources Evaluation ................................................................................. 3 
Table 2. Vegetation Community and Land Cover Types ............................................................................. 12 
Table 3.Summary of Tree Removal ............................................................................................................. 21 
LIST OF PHOTOS 
Photo 1. Photograph of the developed area (concrete lined channel) on-site. ......................................... 12 
Photo 2. Photograph of mixed ornamental woodland on site. .................................................................. 12 
Photo 3. Photograph of ruderal upland area at top of bank. ..................................................................... 13 
Photo 4. Photograph of the intermittent stream within the Project area. ................................................ 13 
LIST OF APPENDICES 
Appendix A – Figures 
Figure 1. Project Area Location 
Figure 2. Aerial Photograph of Project Area 
Figure 3. Project Area Soils 
Figure 4A. Natural Communities and Land Cover within the Project Area 
Figure 4B. Natural Communities and Land Cover within the Stream Enhancement Area 
Figure 5. Project Impacts 
 
Appendix B – Species Documented within and around the Project Area 
Appendix C – Proposed Project 75% Plans  
Appendix D – Database Results for Special-Status Species  
LIST OF PREPARERS 
Leslie Allen – Principal-in-Charge 
Jemma Williams – Biologist 
Brian Kearns – Wildlife Biologist 
Michael Rochelle – GIS Analyst 
DEFINITIONS 
Project Area: The area encompassing the proposed project; the area evaluated for potential impacts to 
sensitive biological resources. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
180 of 662

--- page 181 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page iii 
LIST OF ACRONYMS 
BIOS 
Biogeographic Information and Observation System 
CCR 
California Code of Regulations 
CDFW 
California Department of Fish and Wildlife 
CESA 
California Endangered Species Act 
CEQA 
California Environmental Quality Act  
CFGC 
California Fish and Game Code 
CFR 
Code of Federal Regulations 
CNDDB 
California Natural Diversity Database 
CNPS 
California Native Plant Society 
County 
County of San Mateo 
Corps 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
CSRL 
California Soils Resources Lab 
CWA 
Clean Water Act 
DBH 
Diameter at Breast Height 
EFH 
Essential Fish Habitat 
EIR 
Environmental Impact Report 
EPA 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
ESA 
Federal Endangered Species Act 
MBTA 
Migratory Bird Treaty Act 
NOAA 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
NMFS 
National Marine Fisheries Service 
NPDES 
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System  
NRCS 
Natural Resource Conservation Service 
NWI 
National Wetland Inventory 
NWPL 
National Wetland Plant List 
OHWM 
Ordinary High Water Mark 
Rank 
California Rare Plant Ranks 
RWQCB 
Regional Water Quality Control Board 
SSC 
Species of Special Concern 
SWRCB 
State Water Resource Control Board 
TOB 
Top of Bank 
USDA 
U.S. Department of Agriculture 
USFWS 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
USGS 
U.S. Geological Survey 
WBWG 
Western Bat Working Group 
WRA 
WRA, Inc. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
181 of 662

--- page 182 ---
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
182 of 662

--- page 183 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 1 
 
1.0 INTRODUCTION 
This Biological Resources Technical Report, prepared by WRA, Inc. (WRA), evaluates existing biological 
resources, potential impacts, and mitigation measures (if required) for the Poplar at Golf Course Trash 
Capture Project located in the City of San Mateo, San Mateo County, California (Figure 1, Appendix A). 
The proposed project (Project) involves the installation of an approximately 489-square-foot (0.011 acre) 
Full Capture System trash capture device approved by the State Water Board, and the construction of an 
approximately 864-square-foot (0.02 acre) staging area that would be installed on the northwest side of 
Poplar Creek. The staging area would be graded to form a permanent, permeable asphalt maintenance 
pad to allow for stormwater percolation while maintaining continued access to the trash capture device 
for required maintenance. Implementation of approximately 1,000 square feet (0.02 acre) of stream 
enhancement in the form of riparian vegetation planting is also proposed as part of this project within the 
Poplar Creek Golf Course. 
1.1 Overview and Purpose 
This report provides an assessment of biological resources within the Project Area and immediate vicinity. 
The assessment included a reconnaissance-level site visit to assess plant, wildlife, and other features 
relevant to the biological resources present on the Project Area. The purpose of the assessment was to 
develop and gather information on sensitive biological communities and special-status plant and wildlife 
species to support an evaluation of the Project under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). 
This report describes the results of the site visit, which assessed the Project Area for (1) the presence of 
sensitive biological communities, special-status plant species, and special-status wildlife species, (2) the 
potential for the site to support special-status plant and wildlife species. Based on the results of the site 
assessment, potential impacts to sensitive biological communities and special-status species resulting 
from the proposed project were evaluated. If the project has the potential to result in significant impacts 
to these biological resources, measures to avoid, minimize, or mitigate for those significant impacts are 
described. 
 
A biological resources assessment provides general information on the presence, or potential presence, 
of sensitive species and habitats. This assessment is based on information available at the time of the 
study and on-site conditions that were observed on the dates the site was visited. Conclusions are based 
on currently available information used in combination with the professional judgement of the biologists 
completing this study. 
1.2 Project Description 
The City of San Mateo is planning to install a full trash capture device at the Poplar Golf Course to help 
reduce trash loads in the storm drain system and comply with Provision C.10 of the Municipal Regional 
Stormwater National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit. The proposed Project would 
install a trash capture device composed of four Roscoe Moss Storm Flo® Trash Screen Linear Radial Gross 
Solids Removal Devices, a Full Capture System device approved by the State Water Board. Each of the four 
Storm Flo® screens would be made of stainless steel and would be approximately 18 inches in diameter 
and 35 feet long. The four screens would be prefabricated and would be installed at 2-foot intervals along 
a 3-foot high by 1-foot-thick concrete weir wall and would be secured with stainless steel anchor plates. 
This trash capture device would involve approximately 489 square feet (0.011 acre) installed below top of 
bank (TOB) into a concrete lined channel of Poplar Creek. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
183 of 662

--- page 184 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 2 
 
The proposed Project would involve removing and replacing an approximately 10-foot by 30-foot section 
of the existing concrete channel with new concrete and a reinforced concrete weir. The trash capture 
screens would attach to the weir with epoxy anchors. Once installed, each Storm Flo® screen would 
capture solids as water passes through.  
 
Prior to the commencement of construction activities, the creek would be dewatered using two 
temporary cofferdams. Construction of the trash capture device would require use of an excavator, 
skidsteer, pickup trucks, a 10-wheel dump truck, and a telehandler. The excavator or skidsteer would need 
to operate within the channel to remove the section of the existing concrete-lined channel (both sides) to 
be replaced by the proposed Project. All other equipment operations would be conducted from 
outside/above the creek.  
 
An approximately 864-square-foot (0.02 acre) staging area would be installed on the northwest side of 
Poplar Creek. The staging area would be graded to form a permanent, permeable asphalt maintenance 
pad to allow for stormwater percolation while maintaining continued access to the trash capture device 
for required maintenance.  
 
In order to minimize impacts to aquatic resources, the project also includes approximately 1,000 square 
feet (0.02 acre) of stream enhancements located approximately 0.03 mile downstream of the trash 
capture device installation site. These enhancements will include native plant and tree installation in a 
turf/landscaped area along Poplar Creek within the Poplar Creek Golf Course. 
 
The construction duration would be two months (approximately 40 working days) with construction 
tentatively beginning and completing the Spring of 2022. No weekend or nighttime work would occur. 
1.3 Summary of Results 
The surfaces of the Project Area and immediate surrounding areas have been rendered largely 
impermeable by the construction of the concrete lined channel (Poplar Creek), buildings, maintenance 
lots, and surrounding streets. There is a small area of mixed ornamental woodland along the southern 
edge of the channel, and a strip of ruderal upland area that extends along the northwestern edge of the 
channel. The soils throughout the Project Area are classified as Urban land-Orthents, reclaimed complex, 
which is a soil comprised of fill materials mixed with native clay inclusions.  
 
The Project Area is composed of the following communities, ruderal upland, mixed ornamental woodland, 
developed, and intermittent stream. Poplar Creek is identified in the National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) 
as an intermittent stream. The channel was observed to be fully concrete lined in the banks and bed in 
the entire Project Area. The cement bottom precludes vegetation from establishing. 
 
No special-status plant species have the potential to occur within the Project Area. The nearest 
documented species, Franciscan onion (Allium peninsulare var. franciscanum), was documented within 
2 miles of the Project Area. Non-status birds with baseline legal protections, as well as roosting bats, have 
the potential to occur in the Project Area. No special-status species documented in the vicinity have the 
potential to occur within the Project Area. Avoidance and minimization measures and best management 
practices have been developed and provided herein to avoid and minimize impacts to these resources. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
184 of 662

--- page 185 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 3 
 
 
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES EVALUATION 
CEQA ASSESSMENT 
CATEGORY1IV. -BIOLOGICAL 
RESOURCES 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES 
CONSIDERED 
RELEVANT LAWS AND 
REGULATIONS 
RESPONSIBLE REGULATORY 
AGENCY 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS & 
REPORT SECTION2 
Question A. Special-status 
species 
Special-status Plants 
Special-status Wildlife 
Designated Critical Habitat 
Federal Endangered Species 
Act  
California Endangered 
Species Act 
California Native Plant 
Protection Act 
Migratory Bird Treaty Act 
Bald and Golden Eagle 
Protection Act 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service  
National Marine Fisheries 
Service 
California Department of 
Fish and Wildlife 
Potentially significant 
impacts were identified and 
mitigation measures 
included that reduce those 
impacts to a level that is less 
than significant. 
 
See Section 7.1 for more 
information 
Question B. Sensitive natural 
communities & riparian 
habitat 
Sensitive Natural 
Communities 
Streams, Lakes, & Riparian 
Habitat 
California Fish and Game 
Code 
Oak Woodland Conservation 
Act 
Porter-Cologne Act 
Clean Water Act 
California Department of 
Fish and Wildlife 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency 
State Water Resources 
Control Board 
Regional Water Quality 
Control Board 
Potentially significant 
impacts were not identified. 
 
 
 
 
See Section 7.2 for more 
information 
Question C. State and 
federally protected wetlands 
Wetlands 
Unvegetated surface waters 
Clean Water Act Sections 
404/401 
Rivers and Harbors Act 
Section 10 
Porter Cologne Act 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  
U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency 
State Water Resources 
Control Board 
Regional Water Quality 
Control Board 
Potentially significant 
impacts were not identified. 
 
 
See Section 7.3 for more 
information 
Question D. Fish & wildlife 
corridors 
Essential Fish Habitat 
Wildlife Corridors 
California Fish and Game 
Code 
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
Conservation & 
Management Act 
California Department of 
Fish and Wildlife 
National Marine Fisheries 
Service 
Potentially significant 
impacts were not identified. 
 
See Section 7.4 for more 
information 
 
1 CEQA Questions have been summarized here; see Section 6.0 for details. 
2 As given in this report; see Section 7.0 subheadings 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
185 of 662

--- page 186 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 4 
 
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES EVALUATION 
CEQA ASSESSMENT 
CATEGORY1IV. -BIOLOGICAL 
RESOURCES 
BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES 
CONSIDERED 
RELEVANT LAWS AND 
REGULATIONS 
RESPONSIBLE REGULATORY 
AGENCY 
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS & 
REPORT SECTION2 
Question E. Local policies 
Protected Trees 
Coastal zone resources 
Other biological protections 
Local Tree Ordinance 
General Plan (e.g., Stream & 
Wetland Setbacks) 
Local ordinances 
Local and regional agencies 
California Coastal 
Commission 
San Francisco Bay 
Conservation and 
Development Commission 
Potentially significant 
impacts were not identified. 
 
See Section 7.5 for more 
information 
Question F. Local, state, 
federal conservation plans 
Habitat Conservation Plans 
Natural Community 
Conservation Plans 
Federal Endangered Species 
Act 
Natural Community 
Conservation Planning Act 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 
California Department of 
Fish and Wildlife 
Potentially significant 
impacts were not identified. 
 
See Section 7.6 for more 
information 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
186 of 662

--- page 187 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 5 
 
2.0 REGULATORY BACKGROUND 
The following sections explain the regulatory context of the biological assessment, including applicable 
laws and regulations that were applied to the field investigations and analysis of potential project impacts. 
Table 1 shows the correlation between these regulations and each Biological Resources question in the 
Environmental Checklist Form (Appendix G) of the CEQA guidelines. 
2.1 Federal and State Regulatory Setting 
2.1.1 Vegetation and Aquatic Communities 
CEQA provides protections for particular vegetation types defined as sensitive by the California 
Department of Fish and Game (CDFW), and aquatic communities protected by laws and regulations 
administered by the U.S Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB), 
and Regional Water Quality Control Boards (RWQCB). The laws and regulations that provide protection 
for these resources are summarized below. 
 
Sensitive Natural Communities: Sensitive natural communities include habitats that fulfill special 
functions or have special values. Natural communities considered sensitive are those identified in local or 
regional plans, policies, regulations, or by the CDFW. CDFW ranks sensitive communities as "threatened" 
or "very threatened" (CDFW 2021a) and keeps records of their occurrences in its California Natural 
Diversity Database (CNDDB; CDFW 2021b). Vegetation alliances are ranked 1 through 5 in the CNDDB 
based on NatureServe's (2021) methodology, with those alliances ranked globally (G) or statewide (S) as 
1 through 3 considered sensitive. Impacts to sensitive natural communities identified in local or regional 
plans, policies, or regulations or those identified by the CDFW or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) 
must be considered and evaluated under CEQA (CCR Title 14, Div. 6, Chap. 3, Appendix G). In addition, this 
general class includes oak woodlands that are protected by local ordinances under the Oak Woodlands 
Protection Act. 
 
Waters of the United States, Including Wetlands: The Corps regulates “Waters of the United States” under 
Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (CWA). Waters of the United States are defined in the Code of Federal 
Regulations (CFR) as including the territorial seas, and waters which are currently used, or were used in 
the past, or may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign commerce, such as tributaries, lakes and 
ponds, impoundments of waters of the U.S., and wetlands that are hydrologically connected with these 
navigable features (33 CFR 328.3). Potential wetland areas, according to the three criteria used to 
delineate wetlands as defined in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual (Corps 
Manual; Environmental Laboratory 1987), are identified by the presence of (1) hydrophytic vegetation, 
(2) hydric soils, and (3) wetland hydrology. Unvegetated waters including lakes, rivers, and streams may 
also be subject to Section 404 jurisdiction and are characterized by an ordinary high water mark (OHWM) 
identified based on field indicators such as the lack of vegetation, sorting of sediments, and other 
indicators of flowing or standing water. The placement of fill material into Waters of the United States 
generally requires a permit from the Corps under Section 404 of the CWA.  
 
The Corps also regulates construction in navigable waterways of the U.S. through Section 10 of the Rivers 
and Harbors Act (RHA) of 1899 (33 USC 403). Section 10 of the RHA requires Corps approval and a permit 
for excavation or fill, or alteration or modification of the course, location, condition, or capacity of, any 
port, roadstead, haven, harbor, canal, lake, harbor or refuge, or enclosure within the limits of any 
breakwater, or of the channel of any navigable water of the United States. Section 10 requirements apply 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
187 of 662

--- page 188 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 6 
 
only to navigable waters themselves, and are not applicable to tributaries, adjacent wetlands, and similar 
aquatic features not capable of supporting interstate commerce. 
 
Waters of the State, Including Wetlands: The term “Waters of the State” is defined by the Porter-Cologne 
Act as “any surface water or groundwater, including saline waters, within the boundaries of the state.” 
The SWRCB and nine RWQCB protect waters within this broad regulatory scope through many different 
regulatory programs. Waters of the State in the context of a CEQA Biological Resources evaluation include 
wetlands and other surface waters protected by the State Wetland Definition and Procedures for 
Discharges of Dredged or Fill Material to Waters of the State (SWRCB 2019). The SWRCB and RWQCB issue 
permits for the discharge of fill material into surface waters through the State Water Quality Certification 
Program, which fulfills requirements of Section 401 of the CWA and the Porter-Cologne Water Quality 
Control Act. Projects that require a Clean Water Act permit are also required to obtain a Water Quality 
Certification. If a project does not require a federal permit but does involve discharge of dredge or fill 
material into surface waters of the State, the SWRCB and RWQCB may issue a permit in the form of Waste 
Discharge Requirements. 
 
Sections 1600-1616 of California Fish and Game Code: Streams and lakes, as habitat for fish and wildlife 
species, are regulated by CDFW under Sections 1600-1616 of California Fish and Game Code (CFGC). 
Alterations to or work within or adjacent to streambeds or lakes generally require a 1602 Lake and 
Streambed Alteration Agreement. The term “stream,” which includes creeks and rivers, is defined in the 
California Code of Regulations (CCR) as “a body of water that flows at least periodically or intermittently 
through a bed or channel having banks and supports fish or other aquatic life [including] watercourses 
having a surface or subsurface flow that supports or has supported riparian vegetation” (14 CCR 1.72). 
The term “stream” can include ephemeral streams, dry washes, watercourses with subsurface flows, 
canals, aqueducts, irrigation ditches, and other means of water conveyance if they support aquatic life, 
riparian vegetation, or stream-dependent terrestrial wildlife (CDFG 1994). Riparian vegetation has been 
defined as “vegetation which occurs in and/or adjacent to a stream and is dependent on, and occurs 
because of, the stream itself” (CDFG 1994). Removal of riparian vegetation also requires a Section 1602 
Lake and Streambed Alteration Agreement from CDFW. 
2.1.2 Special-status Species 
Endangered and Threatened Plants, Fish, and Wildlife. Specific species of plants, fish, and wildlife species 
may be designated as threatened or endangered by the federal Endangered Species Act (ESA), or the 
California Endangered Species Act (CESA). Specific protections and permitting mechanisms for these 
species differ under each of these acts, and a species’ designation under one law does not automatically 
provide protection under the other.  
 
The ESA (16 USC 1531 et seq.) is implemented by the USFWS and the National Marine Fisheries Service 
(NMFS). The USFWS and NMFS maintain lists of endangered and threatened plant and animal species 
(referred to as "listed species"). "Proposed" or "candidate" species are those that are being considered 
for listing and are not protected until they are formally listed as threatened or endangered. Under the 
ESA, authorization must be obtained from the USFWS or NMFS prior to take of any listed species. “Take” 
under the ESA is defined as “harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect, or to 
attempt to engage in any such conduct.” Take under the ESA includes direct injury or mortality to 
individuals, disruptions in normal behavioral patterns resulting from factors such as noise and visual 
disturbance and impacts to habitat for listed species. Actions that may result in take of an ESA-listed 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
188 of 662

--- page 189 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 7 
 
species may obtain a permit under ESA Section 10, or via the interagency consultation described in ESA 
Section 7. Federally listed plant species are only protected when take occurs on federal land.  
 
The ESA also provides for designation of critical habitat, which are specific geographic areas containing 
physical or biological features “essential to the conservation of the species.” Protections afforded to 
designated critical habitat apply only to actions that are funded, permitted, or carried out by federal 
agencies. Critical habitat designations do not affect activities by private landowners if there is no other 
federal agency involvement. 
 
The CESA (CFGC 2050 et seq.) prohibits a take of any plant and animal species that the CFGC determines 
to be an endangered or threatened species in California. CESA regulations include take protection for 
threatened and endangered plants on private lands, as well as extending this protection to candidate 
species which are proposed for listing as threatened or endangered under CESA. The definition of a "take" 
under CESA ("hunt, pursue, catch, capture, or kill, or attempt to hunt, pursue, catch, capture, or kill") only 
applies to direct impact to individuals, and does not extend to habitat impacts or harassment. CDFW may 
issue an Incidental Take Permit under CESA to authorize take if it is incidental to otherwise lawful activity 
and if specific criteria are met. Take of these species is also authorized if the geographic area is covered 
by a Natural Community Conservation Plan (NCCP), as long as the NCCP covers that activity. 
 
Fully Protected Species and Designated Rare Plant Species. This category includes specific plant and 
wildlife species that are designated in the CFGC as protected even if not listed under CESA or ESA. Fully 
Protected Species includes specific lists of birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and fish designated in 
CFGC. Fully protected species may not be taken or possessed at any time. No licenses or permits may be 
issued for take of fully protected species, except for necessary scientific research and conservation 
purposes. The definition of "take" is the same under the California Fish and Game Code and the CESA. By 
law, CDFW may not issue an Incidental Take Permit for Fully Protected Species. Under the California Native 
Plant Protection Act (NPPA), CDFW has listed 64 “rare” or “endangered” plant species, and prevents 
“take”, with few exceptions, of these species. CDFW may authorize take of species protected by the NPPA 
through the Incidental Take Permit process, or under a NCCP.  
 
Special Protections for Nesting Birds and Bats. The federal Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act provides 
relatively broad protections to both of North America’s eagle species (bald eagle [Haliaeetus 
leucocephalus] and golden eagle [Aquila chrysaetos)] that in some regards are similar to those provided 
by the ESA. In addition to regulations for special-status species, most native birds in the United States, 
including non-status species, have baseline legal protections under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918 
and CFGC, i.e., sections 3503, 3503.5 and 3513. Under these laws/codes, the intentional harm or collection 
of adult birds as well as the intentional collection or destruction of active nests, eggs, and young is illegal. 
For bat species, the Western Bat Working Group (WBWG) designates conservation status for species of 
bats, and those with a high or medium-high priority are typically given special consideration under CEQA.  
 
Essential Fish Habitat. The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act provides for 
conservation and management of fishery resources in the U.S., administered by NMFS. This Act 
establishes a national program intended to prevent overfishing, rebuild overfished stocks, ensure 
conservation, and facilitate long-term protection through the establishment of Essential Fish Habitat 
(EFH). EFH consists of aquatic areas that contain habitat essential to the long-term survival and health of 
fisheries, which may include the water column, certain bottom types, vegetation (e.g., eelgrass (Zostera 
spp.)), or complex structures such as oyster beds. Any federal agency that authorizes, funds, or undertakes 
action that may adversely affect EFH is required to consult with NMFS. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
189 of 662

--- page 190 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 8 
 
 
Species of Special Concern, Movement Corridors, and Other Special-status Species under CEQA. To 
address additional species protections afforded under CEQA, CDFW has developed a list of special species 
as “a general term that refers to all of the taxa the CNDDB is interested in tracking, regardless of their 
legal or protection status.” This list includes lists developed by other organizations, including for example, 
the Audubon Watch List Species, the Bureau of Land Management Sensitive Species, and USFWS Birds of 
Special Concern. Plant species on the California Native Plant Society (CNPS) Inventory of Rare and 
Endangered Plants (Inventory) with California Rare Plant Ranks (Rank) of 1 and 2, as well as some with a 
Rank of 3, are also considered special-status plant species and must be considered under CEQA. Some 
Rank 3 species and all Rank 4 species are typically only afforded protection under CEQA when such species 
are particularly unique to the locale (e.g., range limit, low abundance/low frequency, limited habitat) or 
are otherwise considered locally rare. Additionally, any species listed as sensitive within local plans, 
policies and ordinances are likewise considered sensitive. Movement and migratory corridors for native 
wildlife (including aquatic corridors) as well as wildlife nursery sites are given special consideration under 
CEQA.  
2.2 Local Plans and Policies 
San Mateo County General Plan. The San Mateo County General Plan, Chapter 1. Vegetative, Water, Fish 
and Wildlife Resources Policies contains policies pertaining to the following biological resources 
categories: 
• 
Wetlands, streams, riparian, and aquatic areas (Policy 1.26, 1.37, 1.41, 1.49, etc.) 
• 
Vegetation Resources (Policy 1.25) 
• 
Wildlife Species (Policy 1.27) 
• 
Wildlife Corridors (Policy 1.29) 
City of San Mateo Tree Ordinance. The City of San Mateo Tree Ordinance requires a permit for the 
removal, major pruning of more than ¼ of the crown, or removal of any roots within a distance equal to 
6 times the diameter of the trunk of any Heritage tree from any parcel of property in the City. The 
Ordinance defines a “Heritage trees” as: 
 
1. Any oak having a trunk diameter or diameter at breast height (DBH) of 10 inches or more, 
measured at 4.5 feet (54 inches) above ground level. 
2. Any tree with a trunk diameter of 15 inches or more, measured at 4.5 feet (54 inches) 
above ground level. 
3. Multi-stem trees. Trees with more than one stem (arising at or below 54 inches) shall be 
measured at the smallest diameter point below the main union of all stems unless the union 
occurs below grade, in which case each stem shall be measured as a stand-alone tree. For oak 
trees, if one stem is ten inches or more in diameter, the tree will constitute one Heritage Tree. 
For all other species, if one stem is fifteen inches or more in diameter, the tree will constitute 
one Heritage Tree. 
4. Any tree or stand of trees designated by resolution of the City Council to be of special 
historical value or of significant community benefit; or 
5. A stand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others for survival. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
190 of 662

--- page 191 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 9 
 
3.0 ASSESSMENT METHODOLOGY 
On October 29, 2020, WRA biologists visited the Project Area to map vegetation, aquatic communities, 
unvegetated land cover types, document plant and wildlife species present, and evaluate on-site habitat 
for the potential to support special-status species as defined by CEQA. Prior to the site visit, WRA biologists 
reviewed literature resources and performed database searches to assess the potential for sensitive 
biological communities (e.g., wetlands) and special-status species (e.g., endangered plants), including: 
• 
Soil Survey of San Mateo County, California (USDA 1991) 
• 
South San Francisco, Hunters Point, Montara Mountain, and San Mateo 7.5-minute U.S. 
Geological Survey (USGS) quadrangle (USGS 2018) 
• 
Contemporary aerial photographs (Google Earth 2021) 
• 
Historical aerial photographs (NETR 2021) 
• 
National Wetlands Inventory (USFWS 2021a) 
• 
California Aquatic Resources Inventory (SFEI 2021) 
• 
CNDDB (CDFW 2021b) 
• 
CNPS Inventory (CNPS 2021a) 
• 
Consortium of California Herbaria (CCH 2021a, CCH 2021b) 
• 
USFWS List of Federal Endangered and Threatened Species (USFWS 2021b) 
• 
eBird Online Database (eBird 2021) 
• 
CDFW Publication, California Bird Species of Special Concern in California (Shuford and Gardali 
2008) 
• 
CDFW and University of California Press publication California Amphibian and Reptile Species 
of Special Concern (Thomson et al. 2016) 
• 
A Field Guide to Western Reptiles and Amphibians (Stebbins 2003) 
• 
A Manual of California Vegetation, Online Edition (CNPS 2021b) 
• 
Preliminary Descriptions of the Terrestrial Natural Communities (Holland 1986) 
• 
California Natural Community List (CDFW 2021a) 
Database searches (i.e., CNDDB, CNPS) for special-status species focused on the San Francisco South, 
Hunters Point, Montara Mountain, and San Mateo USGS 7.5-minute quadrangles. 
 
Following the remote assessment, WRA biologists Jemma Williams and Brian Kearns completed a field 
review on October 29, 2020 to document: (1) land cover types (e.g., terrestrial communities, aquatic 
resources), (2) existing conditions and to determine if such provide suitable habitat for any special-status 
plant or wildlife species, (3) if and what type of aquatic natural communities (e.g., wetlands) are present, 
and (4) if special-status species are present. 
3.1 Vegetation Communities and Other Land Cover Types 
During the site visit, WRA evaluated the species composition and area occupied by distinct vegetation 
communities, aquatic communities, and other land cover types. Mapping of these classifications utilized 
a combination of aerial imagery and ground surveys. In most instances, communities are characterized 
and mapped based on distinct shifts in plant assemblage (vegetation) and follow the California Natural 
Community List (CDFW 2021a) and A Manual of California Vegetation, Online Edition (CNPS 2021b). These 
resources cannot anticipate every component of every potential vegetation assemblage in California, and 
so in some cases, it is necessary to identify other appropriate vegetative classifications based on best 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
191 of 662

--- page 192 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 10 
 
professional judgment of WRA biologists. When undescribed variants are used, it is noted in the 
description. Vegetation alliances (natural communities) with a CDFW Rank of 1 through 3 (globally 
critically imperiled [S1/G1], imperiled [S2/G2], or vulnerable [S3/G3]), were evaluated as sensitive as part 
of this evaluation (CDFW 2021a). 
 
On October 29, 2020, the site was reviewed for the presence of wetlands and other aquatic resources 
according to the methods described in the Corps Manual (Environmental Laboratory 1987), the Regional 
Supplement to the Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual: Arid West/Western Mountains and 
Valleys Region (Arid West; Corps 2008), A Field Guide to the Identification of the Ordinary High Water 
Mark (OHWM) in the Arid West Region of the Western United States (Lichvar and McColley 2008). Areas 
meeting these indicators were mapped as aquatic resources and categorized using the vegetation 
community classification methods described above. Aquatic communities which are mapped in the NMFS 
EFH Mapper (NMFS 2021) or otherwise meet criteria for designation as EFH are indicated as such in the 
community description below in Section 5.1. The presence of riparian habitat was evaluated based on 
woody plant species meeting the definition of riparian provided in A Field Guide to Lake and Streambed 
Alteration Agreements, Section 1600-1607, California Fish and Game Code (CDFG 1994) and based on best 
professional judgement of biologists completing the field surveys.  
3.2 Special-status Species 
Potential occurrence of special-status species in the Project Area was evaluated by first determining which 
special-status species occur in the vicinity of the Project Area through a literature and database review as 
described above. Presence of suitable habitat for special-status species was evaluated during the site visit 
based on physical and biological conditions of the site as well as the professional expertise of the 
investigating biologists. Species warranting more discussion relative to the Project Area are discussed in 
greater detail below. 
 
If a more thorough assessment was deemed necessary, a targeted or protocol-level assessment or survey 
was conducted or recommended as a future study. If a special-status species was observed during the site 
visit, its presence was recorded and discussed below in Section 5.2. If designated critical habitat is present 
for a species, the extent of critical habitat present and an evaluation of critical habitat elements is 
provided as part of the species discussions below.  
3.3 Wildlife Corridors and Native Wildlife Nursery Sites 
To account for potential impacts to wildlife movement/migratory corridors, biologists reviewed maps 
from the California Essential Connectivity Project (Caltrans 2010), and habitat connectivity data available 
through the CDFW Biogeographic Information and Observation System (BIOS; CDFW 2021b). Additionally, 
aerial imagery (Google 2021) for the local area was referenced to assess if local core habitat areas were 
present within or connected to the Project Area. This assessment was refined based on observations of 
on-site physical and/or biological conditions, including topographic and vegetative factors that can 
facilitate wildlife movement, as well as on-site and off-site barriers to connectivity. 
 
The potential presence of native wildlife nursery sites is evaluated as part of the site visit and discussion 
of individual wildlife species below. Examples of native wildlife nursery sites include nesting sites for 
native bird species (particularly colonial nesting sites), marine mammal pupping sites, and colonial 
roosting sites for other species (such as for monarch butterfly [Danaus plexippus]).  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
192 of 662

--- page 193 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 11 
 
4.0 ECOLOGICAL SETTING 
The approximately 0.10-acre Project Area is located immediately north of the intersection of East Poplar 
Avenue and North Bayshore Boulevard and adjacent to the Poplar Creek Golf Course, and within Poplar 
Creek, an intermittent, concrete-lined stream located in San Mateo, California (Figure 2, Appendix A). The 
Project Area includes all areas directly affected by the Project, as well as adjacent areas of natural cover 
(i.e., riparian trees and shrubs), as well as upstream and downstream areas that could be temporarily or 
permanently affected by the Project. Additional details of the local setting are below. 
4.1 Soils and Topography 
The overall topography of the Project Area is flat with elevations ranging from approximately 0 to 2 feet 
above sea level. According to the Soil Survey of San Mateo County, Eastern Part and San Francisco County 
(USDA 1991), the Project Area consists of Urban land-Orthents, reclaimed complex. Soil mapping units 
within the Project Area are shown in Figure 3 (Appendix A). The soil series of the Project Area’s mapping 
units is summarized below.  
 
Urban land-Orthents, reclaimed complex, 0 to 2 percent slopes: This map unit is in areas that were once 
part of San Francisco Bay and adjacent tidal flats. This unit is about 65 percent Urban land and 30 percent 
Orthents, reclaimed. Urban land consists of area covered by asphalt, concrete, buildings, and other 
structures. Orthents consist of soils that are very deep and poorly drained and are in areas that have been 
filled. They are comprised of soil material, gravel, broken cement and asphalt, bay mud, and solid waste 
materials. This unit also contains small inclusions of Reyes clay, Novato clay, and where those inclusions 
in present the soil is hydric. These soils are not considered hydric and are poorly drained with slow runoff. 
(USDA 1991). 
4.2 Climate and Hydrology 
The Project Area is located in the coastal region of the City of San Mateo in San Mateo County. The average 
monthly maximum temperature in the area is 66 degrees Fahrenheit, while the average monthly 
minimum temperature is 50 degrees Fahrenheit. Predominantly, precipitation falls as rainfall between 
November and March with an annual average precipitation of 20 inches.  
 
The local watershed is San Francisco Bay Estuaries (HUC 12: 180500041001) and the regional watershed 
is San Francisco Bay (HUC 8: 18050004). The Project Area is located in the upper portion of the San 
Francisco Bay watershed. There is a blue-line stream, Poplar Creek in the Project Area (USGS 2018). 
Detailed descriptions of aquatic resources are provided in Section 5.1 below. 
4.3 Land-use 
The surfaces of the Project Area and immediate surrounding areas have been rendered largely 
impermeable by the construction of the concrete lined channel, buildings, maintenance lots, and 
surrounding streets (Google Earth 2021). Undeveloped areas consist of ruderal upland, and the 
surrounding golf course turf. Detailed plant community descriptions are included in Section 5.1 below, 
and all observed plant species are included in Appendix B. Historically, the Project Area was more heavily 
vegetated with sections used for storage and staging areas (NETR 2021). 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
193 of 662

--- page 194 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 12 
 
5.0 ASSESSMENT RESULTS 
5.1 Vegetation Communities and Other Land Cover 
WRA observed three land cover types within the Project Area: developed, ruderal grassland, and mixed 
woodland. Land cover types within the Project Area are illustrated in Figure 4 (Appendix A) and shown in 
Table 2 below. The non-sensitive land cover types in the Project Area include ruderal upland, developed 
areas, and mixed ornamental woodland while the sensitive communities include the intermittent stream. 
Plants species observed within the Project Area are include in Appendix B. 
 
TABLE 2. VEGETATION COMMUNITY AND LAND COVER TYPES 
COMMUNITY/LAND COVER 
SENSITIVE STATUS 
RARITY RANKING 
ACRES WITHIN PROJECT 
AREA 
Terrestrial Community/Land Cover 
Developed 
Non-sensitive 
None 
0.02 
Mixed ornamental 
woodland 
Non-sensitive 
None 
<0.01 
Ruderal upland 
Non-sensitive 
None 
 
Aquatic Resources 
Intermittent stream 
Sensitive 
N/A 
0.03 
 
 
 
 
5.1.1 Terrestrial Land Cover 
Developed Area (no vegetation alliance). CDFW Rank: None.  
The developed areas total 0.04 acre in the Project Area. Developed 
areas are characterized by concrete-lined banks in the channel, a 
cement culvert forming a bridge across the channel, as well as 
cement or gravel lots associated with the maintenance yards of the 
nearby facilities. Developed areas also include landscaped turf 
within the Poplar Creek Golf Course. Sparse ruderal vegetation 
occurs growing in cement seams. This community is not considered 
sensitive by San Mateo County, CDFW, or any other regulatory 
entity. 
 
Mixed ornamental woodland (no vegetation alliance). CDFW Rank: 
None. Mixed ornamental woodland is located above TOB along the 
southeast side of the channel (Photo 2 below). The woodland varies 
from approximately 5 to 15 feet in width in a strip of earth between 
the channel and the East Poplar Avenue sidewalk. The mixed 
ornamental woodland is less than 0.01 acre in size and is composed 
of a planted coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia), blackwood acacia 
(Acacia melanoxylon) and an unidentified dead tree. The 
understory consisted of sparse ruderal, non -native grasses and 
bare ground. This cover type does not meet any of the membership 
requirements for any vegetation alliances and is not considered 
sensitive. 
PHOTO 1. PHOTOGRAPH OF THE DEVELOPED 
AREA (CONCRETE LINED CHANNEL) ON-SITE. 
PHOTO 2. PHOTOGRAPH OF MIXED 
ORNAMENTAL WOODLAND ON SITE. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
194 of 662

--- page 195 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 13 
 
 
Ruderal Upland (multiple vegetation alliances). CDFW Ranks: None. 
Although not described in the literature, ruderal upland includes 
areas that have been partially developed or have been used in the 
past. However, these areas are not currently in use and have been 
allowed to revert to a semi-natural condition. Ruderal upland is 
common throughout California in both rural and urban settings. 
Vegetation at the TOB of this section of Poplar Creek is dominated 
by ruderal upland species. Within the Project Area, the majority of 
ruderal upland vegetation is dominated by dense stands of fennel 
(Foeniculum vulgare) interspersed with other non-native upland 
grass species (Photo 3). The majority of the ruderal upland area 
meets the membership rules of the Foeniculum vulgare 
Herbaceous Semi-Natural Alliance due to the density of fennel growth. Other upland species found in this 
area are Bermuda grass (Cynodon dactylon), wild oats (Avena sp.), ripgut brome (Bromus diandrus). A 
large Scotch broom (Cytisus scoparius) shrub also occurs within this land cover type, along the 
northwester edge of Poplar Creek.  
5.1.2 Aquatic Resources 
Intermittent stream. (No Alliance). CDFW Rank: Sensitive 
Poplar Creek is identified in the NWI as an intermittent stream at 
and below the OHWM and occupies approximately 0.03 acre of the 
Project Area. Poplar Creek is ranked as a sensitive aquatic 
community and is considered a water of the United States as well 
as a water of the state. From the Project Area, flows from Poplar 
Creek continue outside of the Project Area in a northeasterly 
direction for approximately 3,000 feet, at which time the channel 
becomes unlined and begins to flow in the southeasterly direction. 
This earthen channel conveys flow for approximately 700 feet 
before discharging into the open forebay of the Poplar Pump 
Station. Flow from the forebay enters the pump station intake and 
is discharged through the earthen flood control levee into the San 
Francisco Bay. 
 
At the time of the October 2020 survey there was approximately 1 inch of water flowing in the channel. 
No substantial precipitation had occurred in the recent few weeks and the flow is presumed to originate 
largely from nuisance runoff from landscaping or other artificial sources upstream. The channel was 
observed to be fully concrete lined in the banks and bed in the entire Project Area. The cement bottom 
precludes vegetation from establishing. Some sediment has accumulated within the channel, which has 
allowed sparse vegetation to establish. A survey of the vegetated area within the stream channel following 
the methods of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual, the Regional Supplement 
to the Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual: Arid West Region determined that wetlands have 
not established in or around the channel. The cement-lined area along the stream that lies at and below 
TOB is not considered a sensitive vegetation community because the area is largely unvegetated and 
precludes the growth of native, sensitive vegetation communities.  
PHOTO 3. PHOTOGRAPH OF RUDERAL UPLAND 
AREA AT TOP OF BANK. 
PHOTO 4. PHOTOGRAPH OF THE 
INTERMITTENT STREAM WITHIN THE PROJECT 
AREA. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
195 of 662

--- page 196 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 14 
 
5.2 Special-status Species 
5.2.1 Special-status Plants 
Based upon a review of the resource databases listed in Section 3.0, 61 special-status plant species have 
been documented in the vicinity of the Project Area. Only one special-status plant species, Franciscan 
onion (Allium peninsulare var. franciscanum), has been documented within 2 miles of the Project Area. 
This species and the other 60 species recorded in the neighboring CNDDB quadrangles are presumed 
absent because the Project Area consists mostly of unvegetated hardscape and there are no native plant 
communities present. All of these species documented from the greater vicinity are unlikely or have no 
potential to occur for one or more of the following reasons: 
• 
Hydrologic conditions (e.g., tidal, riverine) necessary to support the special-status plant 
species are not present in the Project Area; 
• 
Edaphic (soil) conditions (e.g., volcanic tuff, serpentine) necessary to support the special-
status plant species are not present in the Project Area; 
• 
Associated natural communities (e.g., interior chaparral, tidal marsh) necessary to support 
the special-status plant species are not present in the Project Area;  
• 
The historical landscape and/or habitat(s) of the Project Area were not suitable habitat prior 
to land/type conversion (e.g., reclaimed shoreline) to support the special-status plant species; 
• 
Land use history and contemporary management (e.g., grading, intensive landscaping) has 
degraded the localized habitat necessary to support the special-status plant species and 
created a lack of viable seed bank due to historic soil alterations. 
• 
Non-native species competition 
5.2.2 Special-status Wildlife 
No special-status wildlife species were observed in the Project Area during the site assessment. While 
none were observed, 36 special-status wildlife species have been documented to occur in the South San 
Francisco, Hunters Point, Montara Mountain and San Mateo USGS 7.5’ Quadrangles (CDFW 2021). Of 
these, only ten species are documented to occur within 2 miles of the Project Area in the CNDDB (CDFW 
2021; Appendix D). Most of the special-status species known from the vicinity of the Project Area were 
determined to have no potential, or are unlikely to occur due to one or more of the following reasons: 
• 
Aquatic habitats necessary to support the special-status wildlife species (e.g., vernal pools, 
freshwater streams/rivers) are not present in the Project Area; 
• 
Vegetation communities (e.g., tidal or freshwater marsh, grassland, oak woodlands, old-
growth coniferous forest, riparian woodland/forest) that provide nesting and/or foraging 
resources necessary support the special-status wildlife species are not present in the Project 
Area; 
• 
Structures or vegetation (e.g., caves, old-growth trees) necessary to provide nesting or cover 
habitat to support the special-status wildlife species are not present in the Project Area; 
• 
Host plants necessary to provide larval and nectar resources required for the completion of 
life cycles for specific special-status insects are not present in the Project Area; 
• 
The Project Area is outside the special-status wildlife species’ local documented range, or 
specifically nesting range (generally applies to birds); 
• 
The Project Area is separated from suitable habitats by roads with high traffic volume and is 
embedded within a highly urbanized setting that does not contain suitable habitat; and 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
196 of 662

--- page 197 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 15 
 
• 
The Project Area is surrounded by urban areas and has little to no connectivity to open spaces 
that would support special-status species. 
Based upon the database and literature review, no special-status species documented in the vicinity have 
the potential to occur within the Project Area. However, given the proximity to the Project Area of suitable 
habitat for some special-status species, three (3) species warrant further discussion and are addressed 
below. 
 
California Ridgway’s rail (Rallus. longirostris obsoletus; CRR). Federal Endangered, State Endangered, 
CDFW Fully Protected Species. Unlikely. Formerly known as California clapper rail, CRR is the resident 
Ridgway’s/clapper rail subspecies of northern and central California. Although more widespread in the 
past, it is currently restricted to the San Francisco Bay estuary. The CRR occurs only within salt and brackish 
marshes. Important CRR habitat components include well-developed tidal sloughs and secondary 
channels, and cordgrass (Spartina spp.) beds in the lower marsh zone, dense salt marsh vegetation for 
cover, nest sites, and brooding areas, intertidal mudflats, gradually sloping banks of tidal channels, 
abundant invertebrate food resources, and transitional vegetation at the marsh edge to serve as high tide 
refuge. In south and central San Francisco Bay and along the perimeter of San Pablo Bay, CRR typically 
inhabits salt marshes dominated by pickleweed and cordgrass. Brackish marshes supporting CRR occur 
along major sloughs and rivers of San Pablo Bay and along tidal sloughs of Suisun Marsh. Nesting occurs 
from March through July, with peak activity in late April to late May. CRR nests, constructed of wetland 
vegetation and platform-shaped, are placed near the ground in clumps of dense vegetation, usually in the 
lower marsh zone near small tidal channels. 
CRR has been documented approximately 0.5-mile northeast of the Project Area (CDFW 2021b). Based on 
aerial imagery (Google Earth 2021), this occurrence exists in a small patch of salt marsh along the edge of 
the San Francisco Bay. Despite the close proximity of this occurrence, it is unlikely that CRR would inhabit 
the Project Area given that the Project Area does not contain the dense salt marsh vegetation and 
intertidal mudflats that this species requires for breeding and foraging. Additionally, the Project Area is 
more than 700 feet from any suitable habitat, suggesting that any noise impacts associated with Project 
activities would be unlikely to impact CRR breeding behaviors, which are highly dependent on 
vocalizations. CRR use of the Project Area, if it were to occur, would be limited to occasional movements 
through the Project Area between patches of more suitable habitat; but they would not utilize the area 
for extended periods of time. Therefore, it is unlikely that CRR would occur within the Project Area, and 
no protocol level CRR surveys would be required due to the distance of the Project Area from any suitable 
habitat.  
 
Burrowing owl (Athene cunicularia). CDFW Species of Special Concern. Unlikely. The burrowing owl occurs 
as a year-round resident and winter visitor in much of California’s lowlands, inhabiting open areas with 
sparse or non-existent tree or shrub canopies. Typical habitat is annual or perennial grassland, although 
human-modified areas such as agricultural lands and airports are also used (Poulin et al. 2011). This 
species is dependent on burrowing mammals to provide the burrows that are used characteristically for 
shelter and nesting, and in northern California is typically found in close association with California ground 
squirrels (Otospermophilus beecheyi). Manmade substrates such as pipes or debris piles may also be 
occupied in place of burrows. Prey consists of insects and small vertebrates. Breeding typically takes place 
from March to July. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
197 of 662

--- page 198 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 16 
 
Burrowing owl has been documented throughout San Mateo County, with the closest documented 
occurrence approximately 1.25 miles southeast of the Project Area (CDFW 2021b). However, habitat for 
this species within the Project Area is generally marginal. A small ruderal grassland is present along the 
northwestern side of the Project Area near the intersection with North Bayshore Boulevard; however, no 
small mammal burrows or burrow surrogates were observed during the site visit that might provide 
shelter for wintering or breeding burrowing owl. Therefore, it is unlikely that burrowing owls would occur 
within the Project Area.  
 
Steelhead – central California coast (CCC) Distinct Population Segment (DPS) (Oncorhynchus mykiss 
irideus) Federal Threatened. Unlikely. This DPS includes all naturally spawned populations of steelhead 
(and their progeny) in California streams from the Russian River to Aptos Creek, and the drainages of San 
Francisco and San Pablo Bays eastward to the Napa River (inclusive), excluding the Sacramento-San 
Joaquin River Basin. Steelhead typically migrate to marine waters after spending two years in freshwater, 
though they may stay up to seven. They then reside in marine waters for two to three years prior to 
returning to their natal stream to spawn as four or five-year-olds. Steelhead adults typically spawn 
between December and June. Preferred spawning habitat for steelhead is in perennial streams with cool 
to cold-water temperatures, high dissolved oxygen levels, and fast flowing water. Abundant riffle areas 
(shallow areas with gravel or cobble substrate) for spawning and deeper pools with sufficient riparian 
cover for rearing are necessary for successful breeding. 
 
The closest CCC steelhead supporting stream is San Mateo Creek, approximately one mile southeast of 
the Project Area (CEMAR 2021). Despite the documented presence of steelhead in nearby waterways, the 
concrete lined portion of Poplar Creek that passes through the Project Area would not support steelhead 
populations. While the stream held water during the October 2020 site visit, flows were extremely low 
and likely resulted from various urban runoff sources. There is no gravel or cobble substrate that would 
support the deposition of eggs, and thus a breeding population. Additionally, it is unlikely that steelhead 
would travel through Poplar Creek to reach better breeding grounds upstream, particularly because 
Poplar Creek proceeds into lined and underground storm drainages immediately upstream of the Project 
Area. Additionally, the mouth of Poplar Creek where it drains into the San Francisco Bay is also channeled 
through a pump station before discharging to the Bay, therefore rendering it completely disconnected 
from the Bay. Given the disconnection from the Bay, and lack of suitable breeding habitat within the 
Project Area or in the immediate vicinity, and barriers to movement that under most circumstances would 
prevent this species from entering the Project Area, steelhead are unlikely to occur within the Project 
Area.  
5.3 Wildlife Corridors and Native Wildlife Nursery Sites 
No native wildlife nursery sites are present in the Project Area. 
 
Wildlife movement between suitable habitat areas can occur via open space areas lacking substantial 
barriers. The terms “landscape linkage” and “wildlife corridor” are often used when referring to these 
areas. The key to a functioning corridor or linkage is that it connects two larger habitat blocks, also 
referred to as core habitat areas (Beier and Loe 1992; Soulé and Terbough 1999). It is useful to think of a 
“landscape linkage” as being valuable in a regional planning context, a broad scale mapping of natural 
habitat that functions to join two larger habitat blocks. The term “wildlife corridor” is useful in the context 
of smaller, local area planning, where wildlife movement may be facilitated by specific local biological 
habitats or passages and/or may be restricted by barriers to movement. Above all, wildlife corridors must 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
198 of 662

--- page 199 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 17 
 
link two areas of core habitat and should not direct wildlife to developed areas or areas that are otherwise 
void of core habitat (Hilty et al. 2019). 
 
The Project Area is not within a designated wildlife corridor, as based on the Essential Connectivity Areas 
habitat mapper (Caltrans 2010). The site is generally located within a dense urban and residential matrix, 
which is typically considered to serve as a barrier to dispersal for most wildlife species. While common 
and/or urban-adapted wildlife species presumably utilize the site to some degree for movement at a local 
scale, the Project Area itself does not provide corridor functions beyond connecting other small habitat 
patches in surrounding areas. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
199 of 662

--- page 200 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 18 
 
6.0 ANALYTICAL METHODOLOGY AND SIGNIFICANCE THRESHOLD CRITERIA 
Pursuant to Appendix G, Section IV of the State CEQA Guidelines, a project would have a significant impact 
on biological resources if it would: 
a) Have a substantial adverse effect, either directly or through habitat modifications, on any 
species identified as a candidate, sensitive, or special-status species in local or regional plans, 
policies, or regulations, or by the California Department of Fish and Wildlife or U.S. Fish and 
Wildlife Service; 
b) Have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian habitat or other sensitive natural community 
identified in local or regional plans, policies, regulations, or by the California Department of 
Fish and Wildlife or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 
c) Have a substantial adverse effect on state or federally protected wetlands (including, but not 
limited to, marsh, vernal pool, coastal, etc.) through direct removal, filling, hydrological 
interruption, or other means 
d) Interfere substantially with the movement of any native resident or migratory fish or wildlife 
species or with established native resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or impede the use 
of native wildlife nursery sites; 
e) Conflict with any local policies or ordinances protecting biological resources, such as a tree 
preservation policy or ordinance; and/or, 
f) Conflict with the provisions of an adopted Habitat Conservation Plan, Natural Community 
Conservation Plan, or other approved local, regional, or state habitat conservation plan. 
These thresholds were utilized in completing the analysis of potential project impacts for CEQA purposes. 
For the purposes of this analysis, a “substantial adverse effect” is generally interpreted to mean that a 
potential impact could directly or indirectly affect the resiliency or presence of a local biological 
community or species population. Potential impacts to natural processes that support biological 
communities and special-status species populations that can produce similar effects are also considered 
potentially significant. Impacts to individuals of a species or small areas of existing biological communities 
may be considered less than significant if those impacts are speculative, beneficial, de minimis, and/or 
would not affect the resiliency of a local population. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
200 of 662

--- page 201 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 19 
 
7.0 IMPACTS AND MITIGATION EVALUATION 
Using the CEQA analysis methodology outlined in Section 6.2 above, the following section describes 
potential significant impacts to sensitive resources within the Project Area as well as suggested mitigation 
measures which are expected to reduce impacts to less than significant. 
7.1 Special-status Species 
This section analyzes the Project’s potential impacts and mitigation for special-status species in reference 
to the significance threshold outlined in CEQA Appendix G, Part IV (a): 
Does the project have the potential to have a substantial adverse effect, either directly 
or through habitat modifications, on any species identified as a candidate, sensitive, or 
special-status species in local or regional plans, policies, or regulations, or by the 
California Department of Fish and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service? 
Potential impacts and mitigation for potentially significant impacts are discussed below 
 
Native Nesting Birds 
 
This assessment determined that no special-status bird species have potential to utilize habitats within 
the Project Area. However, common native bird species may nest within the Project Area and may be 
affected by Project activities through visual, auditory, or physical disturbance causing nest abandonment 
or destruction. Due to the protected status of these species under both the Migratory Bird Treaty Act 
(MBTA) and CFGC, impacts to common native nesting birds would be considered a potentially significant 
impact under CEQA. 
 
Potential Impact BIO-1: Construction activities and vegetation removal associated with the 
proposed Project could result in the destruction or abandonment of nests of non-status bird 
species protected under the MBTA, CFGC, and CEQA. 
 
To reduce potential impacts to native nesting birds to a less-than-significant level, the following measure 
should be implemented: 
 
Mitigation Measure BIO-1: To the extent feasible, Project-related activities should be avoided 
during the nesting bird season, generally defined as February 1 – August 31. If Project work must 
occur during the nesting bird season, pre-construction nesting bird surveys be conducted within 
14 days of ground disturbance to avoid disturbance to active nests, eggs, and/or young of nesting 
birds. These surveys would determine the presence or absence of active nests that may be 
affected by Project activities. It is also recommended that any trees and shrubs in or adjacent to 
the Project Area that are proposed for removal and that could be used as avian nesting sites be 
removed during the non-nesting season (September 1 through January 31). 
 
In the event that a nest of a protected species is located, a no disturbance buffer shall be 
established around the nest until all young have fledged or the nest otherwise becomes inactive 
(e.g., due to predation). Suggested buffer zone distances differ depending on species, location, 
baseline conditions, and placement of nest and will be determined and implemented in the field 
by a qualified biologist. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
201 of 662

--- page 202 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 20 
 
 
Implementation of this mitigation measure will reduce potential impacts to native nesting birds to a less-
than-significant level. 
7.2 Sensitive Natural Communities and Land Cover Types 
This section addresses the question: 
b) Does the Project have a substantial adverse effect on any riparian habitat or other 
sensitive natural community identified in local or regional plans, policies, regulations, 
or by the California Department of Fish and Game or U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; 
Sensitive natural communities within the Project Area include: intermittent stream. 
 
Project impacts by land cover type/community are depicted in Figure 5 (Appendix A). The RWQCB 
required that the Project be designed to minimize and avoid impacts to sensitive resources. The 
installation of the trash capture device will result in placement of fill in the intermittent stream; however, 
the trash capture device itself will benefit water quality and hydrology in the stream by helping the City 
effectively capture and remove trash. Additionally, implementation of downstream enhancements will 
minimize any impacts that could result from the additional fill in the concrete-lined channel. Based on 
these factors, the installation of the trash capture device will result in a less than significant impact to 
aquatic resources.  
7.3 Aquatic Resources 
This section analyzes the Project’s potential impacts and mitigation for wetlands and other areas 
presumed or determined to be within the jurisdiction of the Corps or BCDC in reference to the significance 
threshold outlined in CEQA Appendix G, Part IV (c): 
c) Does the Project have the potential to have a substantial adverse effect on state or 
federally protected wetlands as defined by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act 
(including, but not limited to, marsh, vernal pool, coastal, etc.) through direct removal, 
filling, hydrological interruption, or other means; 
The RWQCB required that the Project be designed to minimize and avoid impacts to sensitive resources. 
The installation of the trash capture device will result in placement of fill in the stream; however, the trash 
capture device itself will benefit water quality and hydrology by helping the City effectively remove trash 
from the creek. Additionally, implementation of downstream riparian enhancements will minimize any 
impacts resulting from the additional fill in the concrete-lined channel. Based on these factors, the 
installation of the trash capture device will result in a less than significant impact to aquatic resources.  
7.4 Wildlife Corridors and Native Wildlife Nursery Sites 
This section analyzes the Project’s potential impacts and mitigation for habitat corridors and linkages in 
reference to the significance threshold outlined in CEQA Appendix G, Part IV (d): 
d) Does the Project have the potential to interfere substantially with the movement of 
any native resident or migratory fish or wildlife species or with established native 
resident or migratory wildlife corridors, or impede the use of native wildlife nursery 
sites; 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
202 of 662

--- page 203 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 21 
 
As noted in Section 3.2.6, no portions of the Project Area provide connectivity between areas of suitable 
habitat. For terrestrial species, all portions of the Project Area are within a greater context of urban 
development, and for aquatic species, there is no connectivity between the Project Area and upstream 
freshwater habitats or downstream marine habitats. No impact will occur to migratory corridors for 
terrestrial and aquatic species.  
 
The proposed Project involves the installation of a trash capture device in an intermittent stream. While 
the Project Area in general provides suitable cover and habitat for various types of terrestrial wildlife 
movement, the installation of the trash capture device will not provide a barrier to the dispersal of any 
wildlife species. Temporary impacts in upland areas associated with staging would also not provide a 
barrier to dispersal that could not be easily circumnavigated through other similar habitats. The proposed 
Project would not result in temporary or permanent changes to movement of volant species. Based on 
these factors, the installation of the trash capture device will result in a less than significant impact to 
migratory corridors and habitat linkages. 
7.5 Local Policies and Ordinances 
This section analyzes the Project’s potential impacts and mitigation based on conflicts with local policies 
and ordinances in reference to the significance threshold outlined in CEQA Appendix G, Part IV (e): 
e) Does the Project have the potential to conflict with any local policies or ordinances 
protecting biological resources, such as a tree preservation policy or ordinance;  
Local plans and policies related to biological resources examined in this analysis are: 
• 
City of San Mateo Tree Ordinance.  
The Project would require the removal of two trees and the trimming of a third tree for construction and 
access. The trees to be removed include a native coast live oak (Quercus agrifolia) and a dead tree of 
unknown species (see Table 3, below) located at the top of the southern bank in the mixed ornamental 
woodland. The tree to be trimmed is a non-native, invasive blackwood acacia. The coast live oak to be 
removed does not qualify as a Heritage tree per the local tree ordinance, as it has a DBH of 6.2 which is 
under the 10 DBH threshold. 
 
The Project will incorporate native tree planting into the stream enhancements located downstream of 
the Project Area on the Poplar Creek Golf Course. Table 3 below provides a summary of the proposed tree 
removal. 
TABLE 3.SUMMARY OF TREE REMOVAL  
SPECIES 
SCIENTIFIC NAME 
NATIVE 
HEALTH 
QUANTITY 
Coast live oak 
Quercus agrifolia 
Yes 
alive 
1 
Unknown 
N/A 
N/A 
Dead 
1 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
203 of 662

--- page 204 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 22 
 
While the impacts under CEQA would be less than significant, and the coast live oak proposed for removal 
does not meet the definition of a heritage tree per the City’s tree ordinance, the RWQCB is requiring that 
additional trees be planted as part of the stream enhancement. 
7.6 Habitat Conservation Plans 
This section analyzes the Project’s potential impacts and mitigation based on conflicts with any adopted 
local, regional, and state habitat conservation plans in reference to the significance threshold outlined in 
CEQA Appendix G, Part IV (f): 
f) Does the Project have the potential to conflict with the provisions of an adopted 
Habitat Conservation Plan, Natural Community Conservation Plan, or other approved 
local, regional, or state habitat conservation plan; 
There is no Habitat Conservation Plan that applies to projects in the City or County of San Mateo. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
204 of 662

--- page 205 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 23 
 
8.0 REFERENCES 
Beier, P., and S. Loe. 1992. A checklist for evaluating impacts to wildlife movement corridors. Wildlife 
Society Bulletin 20(4):434–440. 
California Department of Fish and Game. 1994. A Field Guide to Lake and Streambed Alteration 
Agreements, Sections 1600-1607. Environmental Services Division, California Department of Fish 
and Wildlife, Sacramento, California. 
California Department of Fish and Wildlife. 2021a. California Natural Community List. Biogeographic 
Data Branch. Vegetation Classification and Mapping Program, Sacramento, California. 
September 9. 
California Department of Fish and Wildlife. 2021b. California Natural Diversity Database. Biogeographic 
Data Branch, Vegetation Classification and Mapping Program, Sacramento, California. Available 
online at: https://wildlife.ca.gov/Data/CNDDB/Maps-and-Data; most recently accessed: August 
2021. 
California Department of Transportation (Caltrans). 2010. California Essential Habitat Connectivity 
Project: A Strategy for Conserving a Connected California. Prepared for California Department of 
Transportation, California Department of Fish and Game, and Federal Highways Administration. 
Available online at: https://www.wildlife.ca.gov/Conservation/Planning/Connectivity/CEHC. 
Most recently accessed: September 2021.  
California Native Plant Society (CNPS). 2021a. Inventory of Rare and Endangered Plants (online edition, 
v8-03 0.39). Sacramento, California. Online at: http://rareplants.cnps.org/; most recently 
accessed: September 2021. 
California Native Plant Society (CNPS). 2021b. A Manual of California Vegetation, Online Edition. 
Available online at: http://vegetation.cnps.org. Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
Center for Ecosystem Management and Restoration (CEMAR). 2021. Current status of Oncorhynchus 
mykiss in streams of San Francisco and San Mateo Counties, California. Online at: 
http://cemar.org/estuarystreamsreport/images/NewMaps/SF_SanMateo_Counties_Cur.pdf/. 
Most recently accessed: September 2021.  
Consortium of California Herbaria (CCH). 2021a. CCH1: Featuring California Vascular Plant Data from the 
Consortium of California Herbaria and Other Sources. Data provided by the Consortium of 
California Herbaria. Available online at: http://ucjeps.berkeley.edu/consortium/; most recently 
accessed: September 2021. 
Consortium of California Herbaria (CCH). 2021b. CCH2 Portal. Online at: 
http://cch2.org/portal/index.php; most recently accessed: September 2021. 
eBird. 2021. eBird: An online database of bird distribution and abundance. Cornell Lab of Ornithology, 
Ithaca, NY. Available online at: http://www.ebird.org. Most recently accessed: September 2021.  
Environmental Laboratory. 1987. Corp of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual. Department of the 
Army, Waterways Experiment Station, Technical Report Y-87-1, Vicksburg, Mississippi. 
Google Earth. 2021. Aerial Imagery 1986-2021. Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
Hilty, J. A., W. Z. Lidicker Jr, and A. M. Merenlender. 2019. Corridor Ecology: Linking Landscapes for 
Biodiversity Conservation. Second Edition. Island Press. 
Holland, R. F. 1986. Preliminary descriptions of the terrestrial natural communities of California. State of 
California, The Resources Agency, Department of Fish and Game, Sacramento, CA. 
Lichvar, R. W., and S. McColley. 2008. A Field Guide to the Identification of the Ordinary High Water 
Mark (OHWM) in the Arid West Region of the Western United States. A Delineation Manual. 
ERDC/CRREL TR-08-12. Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory. U.S. Army Engineer 
Research and Development Center. Page 84. Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
205 of 662

--- page 206 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 24 
 
U.S. Army Engineer Research and Development Center, ERDC/CRREL TR-08-12, Hanover, New 
Hampshire. 
Nationwide Environmental Title Research (NETR). 2021. Historic Aerials. Available online at: 
https://historicaerials.com/viewer. Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS). 2021. Essential Fish Habitat Mapper. Available online at: 
https://www.habitat.noaa.gov/protection/efh/efhmapper. Most recently accessed: September 
2021. 
NatureServe. 2021. NatureServe Conservation Status. Available online at: 
http://explorer.natureserve.org/ranking.htm. Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
Poulin, Ray, L. D. Todd, E. A. Haug, B. A. Millsap and M. S. Martell. 2011. Burrowing Owl (Athene 
cunicularia), The Birds of North America Online (A. Poole, Ed.). Ithaca: Cornell Lab of 
Ornithology; Retrieved from the Birds of North America Online: 
http://bna.birds.cornell.edu/bna/species/061doi:10.2173/bna.61 
San Francisco Estuary Institute (SFEI). 2017. California Aquatic Resource Inventory (CARI) version 0.3. 
Available online at: https://www.sfei.org/data/california-aquatic-resource-inventory-cari-
version-03-gis-data#sthash.9SjW0wBH.dpbs. Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
Shuford, W. D., and T. Gardali, eds. 2008. California Bird Species of Special Concern: A ranked 
assessment of species, subspecies, and distinct populations of birds of immediate conservation 
concern in California. Western Field Ornithologists, Camarillo, California, and California 
Department of Fish and Game, Sacramento. 
Soulé, M. E., and J. Terbough. 1999. Conserving nature at regional and continental scales - a scientific 
program for North America. BioScience 49(10):809–817. 
State Water Resources Control Board (SWRCB). 2019. State Wetland Definition and Procedures for 
Discharges of Dredged or Fill Material to Waters of the State, May 14, 2019. 
Stebbins, R. C. 2003. A Field Guide to Western Reptiles and Amphibians, Third edition. Houghton Mifflin 
Company, Boston, MA and New York, NY. 
Thomson, R. C., A. N. Wright, and H. B. Shaffer. 2016. California amphibian and reptile species of special 
concern. Co-published by the California Department of Fish and Wildlife and University of 
California Press, Oakland, California. 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps). 2008. Regional Supplement to the Corps of Engineers Wetland 
Delineation Manual: Arid West Region (Version 2.0). Page 135. U.S. Army Engineer Research and 
Development Center, ERDC/EL TR-08-28, Vicksburg, Mississippi. 
U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). 1991. Soil Survey of San Mateo County, Eastern Part and San 
Francisco County.  
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). 2021a. National Wetlands Inventory. Available online at: 
http://www.fws.gov/nwi. Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). 2021b. List of Federal Endangered and Threatened Species. 
Available online at: https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/. Most recently accessed: September 2021. 
U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). 2018. San Mateo, California 7.5-minute quadrangle topographic map. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
206 of 662

--- page 207 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Appendix A 
 
APPENDIX A – FIGURES 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
207 of 662

--- page 208 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Page 25 
 
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
208 of 662

--- page 209 ---
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\BRTR\Figure 1. Location.mxd
Sources: National Geographic, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 9/27/2021
Project Area
View Extent
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture
San Mateo, San Mateo County, California
0
2
1
Miles
Figure 1. Project Area Location
92
280
101
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
209 of 662

--- page 210 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Appendix A 
 
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
210 of 662

--- page 211 ---
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\BRTR\Figure 2. Aerial with Enhancement.mxd
Sources: San Mateo County 2018 Aerial, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 10/11/2021
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture
San Mateo, San Mateo County, California
Figure 2.
Aerial of Project Area
0
400
200
Feet
E Poplar Ave
N Bayshore Blvd
101
Po
pl
ar C
re
ek
Project Area
(0.08 ac./ 3,286 sq.ft.)
Stream Enhancement Area
(0.02 ac./ 1,000 sq.ft.)
Stream Enhancement Area
Project Area
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
211 of 662

--- page 212 ---
134
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\BRTR\Figure 3. Project Area Soils.mxd
Project Area (0.08 ac.)
Soil Unit
134: Urban land-Orthents,
reclaimed complex,
0 to 2 percent slopes
Sources: Google Earth May 2018 Aerial, 2010 ARRA LiDAR, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 10/1/2021
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture
San Mateo, San Mateo County, California
Figure 3.
Project Area Soils
0
50
25
Feet
101
North Bayshore Boulevard
East Poplar Avenue
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
212 of 662

--- page 213 ---
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\BRTR\Figure 4A. Land Cover.mxd
Project Area (0.08 ac.)
Top of Bank (0.04 ac.)
Sensitive Communities
Intermittent Stream - OHWM
(0.03 ac.)
Non-Sensitive Communities
Developed (0.02 ac.)
Mixed Ornamental
Woodland (<0.01 ac.)
Ruderal Upland (0.03 ac.)
Sources: Google Earth May 2018 Aerial, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 10/1/2021
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture
San Mateo, San Mateo County, California
Figure 4A.
Natural Communities and
Land Cover within the Project Area
0
50
25
Feet
101
North Bayshore Boulevard
East poplar Avenue
Poplar
Creek
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
213 of 662

--- page 214 ---
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\BRTR\Figure 4B. Land Cover Stream Enahnacement.mxd
Stream Enhancement
Area (0.02 ac./ 1,000 sq.ft. )
Non-Sensitive Communities
Developed (0.02 ac.)
Sources: Google Earth May 2018 Aerial, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 10/8/2021
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture
San Mateo, San Mateo County, California
Figure 4B.
Natural Communities and
Land Cover within the Stream
Enhancement Area
0
50
25
Feet
Poplar Cree
k
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
214 of 662

--- page 215 ---
Bypass Pipe
Site Parking and Staging Area
Cofferdam
Channel
Replacement
Cofferdam
Trash Capture Devices
Weir
Weir
Path: E:\Acad 2000 Files\30000\30159\GIS\ArcMap\BRTR\Figure 5. Project Impacts.mxd
Project Area (0.08 ac.)
Project Components
Permanent Impacts
Temporary Impacts
Tree Removal
Top of Bank (0.04 ac.)
Sensitive Communities
Intermittent Stream - OHWM
(0.03 ac.)
Non-Sensitive Communities
Developed (0.02 ac.)
Mixed Ornamental
Woodland (<0.01 ac.)
Ruderal Upland (0.03 ac.)
Sources: Google Earth May 2018 Aerial, 2010 ARRA LiDAR, WRA | Prepared By: mrochelle, 10/1/2021
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture
San Mateo, San Mateo County, California
Figure 5.
Project Impacts
0
20
10
Feet
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
215 of 662

--- page 216 ---
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
216 of 662

--- page 217 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Appendix B 
 
APPENDIX B – SPECIES OBSERVED IN AND AROUND THE PROJECT AREA 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
217 of 662

--- page 218 ---
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
218 of 662

--- page 219 ---
B-1 
 
    Appendix B-1. List of Plant Species Observed within and around the Study Area on October 29, 2020 
Scientific Name 
Common Name 
Origin 
Form 
Rarity 
Status 
CAL-IPC 
Status 
Wetland Status 
(Corps 2018) 
Acacia dealbata 
silver wattle 
non-native 
(invasive) 
tree 
- 
Moderate 
- 
Avena sp. 
oat 
non-native 
annual grass 
- 
- 
- 
Brassica sp. 
mustard 
non-native 
(invasive) 
annual herb 
- 
Moderate 
- 
Bromus diandrus 
ripgut brome 
non-native 
(invasive) 
annual grass 
- 
Moderate 
- 
Carduus pycnocephalus ssp. 
pycnocephalus 
non-native 
(invasive) 
tree 
annual herb 
- 
Moderate 
- 
Cotula coronopifolia 
brass-buttons 
non-native 
(invasive) 
perennial herb 
- 
Limited 
OBL 
Cynodon dactylon 
Bermuda grass 
non-native 
(invasive) 
perennial grass 
- 
Moderate 
FACU 
Cyperus eragrostis 
tall flat sedge 
native 
perennial herb 
- 
- 
FACW 
Cytisus scoparius 
Scotch broom 
non-native 
(invasive) 
perennial shrub 
- 
High 
- 
Epilobium ciliatum 
fringed willow herb 
native 
perennial herb 
- 
- 
FACW 
Eucalyptus globulus 
 
blue gum 
non-native 
(invasive) 
tree 
- 
Limited 
- 
Festuca perennis 
Italian rye grass 
non-native 
(invasive) 
annual, perennial 
grass 
- 
Moderate 
FAC 
Foeniculum vulgare 
fennel 
non-native 
(invasive) 
perennial herb 
- 
Moderate 
- 
Helminthotheca echioides 
bristly ox-tongue 
non-native 
(invasive) 
annual herb 
- 
Limited 
FAC 
Lycoperiscon esculentum 
tomato 
non-native 
(invasive) 
annual herb 
- 
- 
- 
Malva nicaeensis 
bull mallow 
non-native  
annual herb 
- 
- 
- 
Olea eurpaea 
olive 
non-native 
(invasive) 
shrub or tree 
- 
Limited 
- 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
219 of 662

--- page 220 ---
B-2 
 
Pinus sp. 
pine 
native 
tree 
- 
- 
- 
Polypogon monspeliensis 
annual beard grass 
non-native 
(invasive) 
annual grass 
- 
Limited 
FACW 
Quercus agrifolia 
coast live oak 
native 
tree 
- 
- 
- 
Rumex crispus 
curly dock 
non-native 
(invasive) 
perennial herb 
- 
Limited 
FAC 
Silybum marianum 
milk thistle 
non-native 
(invasive) 
perennial herb 
- 
- 
- 
Typha sp. 
cattail 
native 
perennial herb 
- 
- 
OBL 
All species identified using the Jepson Flora Project (Jepson eFlora 2021); nomenclature follows Jepson eFlora.  Sp.: “species”, intended to indicate that the observer was 
confident in the identity of the genus but uncertain which species. 
1Rare Status: The CNPS Inventory of Rare and Endangered Plants (CNPS 2021b) 
FE: 
Federal Endangered 
FT: 
Federal Threatened 
SE: 
State Endangered 
ST: 
State Threatened 
SR: 
State Rare 
Rank 1A: Plants presumed extirpated in California and either rare or extinct elsewhere 
Rank 1B: Plants rare, threatened, or endangered in California and elsewhere 
(*Rank 1B: Rare in native stands only) 
Rank 2A: Plants presumed extirpated in California, but more common elsewhere 
Rank 2B: Plants rare, threatened, or endangered in California, but more common elsewhere 
Rank 3:  
Plants about which we need more information – a review list 
Rank 4:  
Plants of limited distribution – a watch list 
2Invasive Status: California Invasive Plant Inventory (Cal-IPC 2021) 
 
High: 
 
Severe ecological impacts; high rates of dispersal and establishment; most are widely distributed ecologically. 
 
 
Moderate: 
Substantial and apparent ecological impacts; moderate-high rates of dispersal, establishment dependent on disturbance; limited- 
 
 
 
moderate distribution ecologically 
 
Limited:  
Minor or not well documented ecological impacts; low-moderate rate of invasiveness; limited distribution ecologically 
Assessed: Assessed by Cal-IPC and determined to not be an existing current threat 
3Wetland Status: National List of Plant Species that Occur in Wetlands, Arid West Region (Corps 2018) 
 
OBL: 
Almost always a hydrophyte, rarely in uplands 
 
FACW: 
Usually a hydrophyte, but occasionally found in uplands 
 
FAC: 
Commonly either a hydrophyte or non-hydrophyte 
 
FACU: 
Occasionally a hydrophyte, but usually found in uplands 
 
UPL: 
Rarely a hydrophyte, almost always in uplands 
 
NL: 
Rarely a hydrophyte, almost always in uplands 
 
NI: 
No information; not factored during wetland delineation 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
220 of 662

--- page 221 ---
C-3 
 
Appendix B-2.  List of Wildlife Species Observed within and around the Study Area on October 29, 2020 
Scientific name 
Common Name 
Status 
Mammals 
Procyon lotor 
raccoon 
No status 
Birds 
Corvus brachyrhynchos 
American crow 
No status 
Egretta thula 
snowy egret 
Known roost sites protected by 
CDFW 
Setophaga townsendii 
Townsend’s warbler 
No status 
Sayornis nigricans 
black phoebe 
No status 
Regulus calendula 
ruby-crowned kinglet 
No status 
Fulica americana 
American coot 
No status 
Bucephala albeola 
bufflehead 
No status 
Calypte anna 
Anna’s hummingbird 
No status 
Setophaga coronata 
yellow-rumped warbler 
No status 
Zonotrichia leucophrys 
white-crowned sparrow 
No status 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
221 of 662

--- page 222 ---
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
222 of 662

--- page 223 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Appendix C 
 
APPENDIX C – PROPOSED PROJECT 75% PLANS 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
223 of 662

--- page 224 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Appendix C 
 
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
224 of 662

--- page 225 ---
NB HWY 101
CONSTRUCTION
ACCESS
SB HWY 101
CONSTRUCTION
ACCESS
PROJECT
SITE
E. POPLAR AVE
E. POPLAR AVE
N. BAYSHORE BLVD
PENINSULA AVE
N. HUMBOLT ST
N. DELAWARE ST
101
POPLAR CREEK
GOLF COURSE
COYOTE
POINT
DR
BAY
AIRPORT BLVD
N. AMPHLETT BLVD
MONTE DIABLO AVE
HARBOR
VIEW PARK
TRAIL
SAN FRANCIS
DORE AVE
1
PLANS FOR
POPLAR AT GOLF COURSE TRASH CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
CITY PROJECT NO. XXX
CO.
SANTA CLARA
PREPARED UNDER THE DIRECTION OF
CAITLIN J. GILMORE
R.C.E 76810, EXPIRES 12/31/22
SCHAAF & WHEELER CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
DATE
CITY OF SAN MATEO RELEASE FOR CONSTRUCTION
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO HEREBY ACCEPTS THESE PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION, AS BEING IN GENERAL
COMPLIANCE WITH PLAN PREPARATION REQUIREMENTS OF THIS GOVERNMENT. RESPONSIBILITY FOR
THE COMPLETENESS AND ACCURACY OF THE PLANS AND RELATED DESIGNS RESIDES WITH THE
ENGINEER AND ENGINEERING FIRM OF RECORD.
Azalea Mitch
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DATE
MATTHEW ZUCCA
PUBLIC WORKS DEPUTY DIRECTOR
CITY OF SAN MATEO
<GARY HEAP, CATHI ZAMMIT OR HAEWON RITCHIE>
ENGINEERING MANAGER
CITY OF SAN MATEO
<SENIOR ENGINEER NAME>
SENIOR ENGINEER
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DATE
DATE
DATE
LOCATION MAP
NOT TO SCALE
NOT TO SCALE
VICINITY MAP
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: CYT
DESIGNED BY: CYT
QC CHECKED BY: CJG
PROJECT No. XXX
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR AT GOLF COURSE
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXX
(415) 433-4848
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94102
870 MARKET STREET, SUITE 1278
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
Schaaf    Wheeler
SHEET NUMBERS AND TITLES
1
 
TITLE SHEET
2
IMPROVEMENT PLAN AND PROFILE
3
 
CONSTRUCTION DETAILS
4
 
SMCWPPP CONSTRUCTION BMPs
BASIS OF BEARINGS
THE BEARING OF NORTH 48° 39' EAST TAKEN ON THE SOUTHERN ROW LINE OF ROGELL AVENUE AS SHOWN ON
THAT CERTAIN SUBDIVISION MAP NUMBER 237, FILED FOR RECORD ON JANUARY 15, 1981, IN BOOK 50 OF MAPS AT
PAGE 95, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SAN MATEO COUNTY WAS TAKEN AS THE BASIS FOR ALL BEARINGS SHOWN
HEREON.
BACK FLOW PREVENTOR
CHAIN LINK FENCE
CONCRETE
CUBIC FEET
ELECTRICAL
EDGE OF WALK
EXISTING
INNER DIAMETER
LANDSCAPE
LIP OF GUTTER
NOT TO SCALE
BFP
CLF
C, CONC
CU . FT
ELEC,
EW
(EX)
ID
L/S
LIP
NTS
OD
OHWM
SD
SF
TC
TOB
TOE
TOP
TPZ
TR
WM
OUTER  DIAMETER
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK
STORM DRAIN
SQUARE FEET
TOP OF CURB
TOP OF BANK
TOE OF SLOPE
TOP OF SLOPE
TREE PROTECTION  ZONE
TREE
WATER  METER
GENERAL NOTES
ABBREVIATIONS
BENCHMARKS
1.
ALL MATERIALS AND WORKMANSHIP SHALL CONFORM TO THE GENERAL AND SPECIFIC PROVISIONS, STANDARD DRAWINGS, AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO.
2.
CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY THE CITY OF SAN MATEO  AT LEAST 48 HOURS IN ADVANCE OF THE START OF ANY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.  ALL UTILITY SHUTDOWNS ARE TO BE COORDINATED
THROUGH THE CITY PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.  ANY TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF THE WORK OR SUBSEQUENT RESUMPTION OF WORK REQUIRES THE NOTIFICATION OF THE CITY AND THE
ENGINEER.
3.
CONTRACTOR SHALL EXCAVATE AND EXPOSE ALL UTILITY CROSSINGS OR CONNECTIONS AFFECTED BY THE WORK.  ALL EXISTING UTILITIES  SHALL BE ADEQUATELY SUPPORTED AND PROTECTED
TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE CITY.  IN THE EVENT OF DAMAGE TO ANY UTILITY OCCASIONED BY THE CONTRACTOR OPERATIONS, THE CONTRACTOR, AT HIS SOLE COST AND EXPENSE, WILL
IMMEDIATELY CAUSE REPAIRS TO BE MADE TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE AFFECTED UTILITY.  NOTIFY THE ENGINEER OF ANY ADJUSTMENTS NECESSITATED BY WAY OF CONFLICT WITH EXISTING
UTILITIES.
4.
CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE ALL LIGHTS, SIGNS, BARRICADES, FLAG MEN, CONES OR OTHER DEVICES NECESSARY TO PROVIDE FOR PUBLIC SAFETY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SPECIFICATIONS.
5.
CONTRACTOR SHALL REPLACE, AT HIS EXPENSE, ALL TREES, SHRUBS, LAWNS, FENCES, IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND IMPROVEMENTS WHICH ARE TO REMAIN INTACT BUT HAVE BEEN REMOVED OR
DAMAGED DURING CONSTRUCTION.  CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT REMOVE OR DAMAGE IMPROVEMENTS LOCATED WITHIN CITY PROPERTY WITHOUT WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM THE CITY; OR FROM
PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM THE PROPERTY OWNER.
6.
ALL DIMENSIONS SHALL BE FIELD VERIFIED BY CONTRACTOR PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. IF FIELD CONDITIONS VARY  SIGNIFICANTLY FROM THE CONSTRUCTION PLANS, CONTRACTOR SHALL
INFORM THE ENGINEER IMMEDIATELY.
7.
BEFORE DIGGING, CALL UNDERGROUND SERVICE ALERT (USA) AT 811.  CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE WITH USA TO LOCATE EXISTING UTILITIES AND EXCAVATE WITH CAUTION TO AVOID
UTILITY DAMAGE.  CONTRACTOR IS LIABLE FOR ALL UTILITY DAMAGE REPAIR AS A RESULT OF HIS OPERATIONS.
8.
CONTRACTOR SHALL EXERCISE DUE CARE AND CONCERN TO AVOID INJURY TO EXISTING FACILITIES IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, AND PROPERTY.  CONTRACTOR TO REPLACE OR RESTORE TO
INITIAL CONDITIONS ANY FACILITIES, IMPROVEMENTS, UTILITIES, OR OTHER PROPERTY DAMAGED OR DISTURBED AS A RESULT OF CONSTRUCTION.
9.
CONTRACTOR AGREES TO ASSUME SOLE AND COMPLETE RESPONSIBILITY FOR JOB SITE CONDITIONS DURING THE CONSTRUCTION OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING  SAFETY OF ALL PERSONS AND
PROPERTY; THAT THIS REQUIREMENT SHALL APPLY CONTINUOUSLY AND NOT BE LIMITED TO NORMAL WORKING HOURS; AND THAT THE CONTRACTOR SHALL DEFEND, INDEMNIFY AND HOLD THE
CITY AND ENGINEER HARMLESS FORM ANY AND ALL LIABILITY, REAL OR ALLEGED, IN CONNECTION WITH THE PERFORMANCE OF WORK ON THIS PROJECT, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT ARISING FORM
THE SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE CITY OR ENGINEER.
10. CONTRACTOR SHALL LOCATE ELECTRICAL TRENCHES TO AVOID EXISTING UTILITIES. CONTRACTOR SHALL  PROTECT EXISTING UTILITIES IN PLACE AS REQUIRED BY TRENCH INSTALLATION.
11. CONTRACTOR TO MAINTAIN A MEANS OF ACCESS TO PROPERTIES, DRIVEWAYS, AND DWELLINGS AT ALL TIMES.
12. IT IS THE CONTRACTOR'S RESPONSIBILITY TO REPLACE ALL STREET MONUMENTS, LOT CORNER PIPES, AND GRADE STAKES DISTURBED DURING THE PROCESS OF CONSTRUCTION AT THE
DIRECTION OF THE CITY ENGINEER.
13.
ALL SURPLUS AND UNSUITABLE MATERIAL SHALL BE REMOVED FROM THE SITE AND PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
14.
THE CONTRACTOR SHALL NEITHER WASTE NOR DEPOSIT ANY HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON THE GRADING SURFACES OR WITHIN THE GRADED CUT AND FILL AREAS OF THIS PROJECT, INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO GASOLINE OR DIESEL FUELS, MOTOR OILS OR TRANSMISSION FLUIDS, ANTIFREEZE, HYDRAULIC FLUIDS, LUBRICANTS, STARTING FLUIDS AND FILTERS, AND/OR CONTAINERS
FOR THESE PRODUCTS. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SPILLS THAT OCCUR AS A RESULT OF EITHER EQUIPMENT FAILURES OR VANDALISM, INCLUDING ALL ADJACENT CONTAMINATED SOILS, SHALL BE
REMOVED AND TRANSPORTED TO AN ENVIRONMENTALLY APPROVED DISPOSAL SITE.  ALL REMOVAL, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL COSTS SHALL BE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE
CONTRACTOR OR HIS SUBCONTRACTORS.
15. OVERNIGHT PARKING OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT IN THE STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY SHALL NOT BE PERMITTED, EXCEPT AT LOCATION(S) APPROVED BY THE CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
16. CONTRACTOR SHALL COORDINATE W/ CITY AND PROPERTY OWNER IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SPECIFICATIONS PRIOR TO PERFORMING ANY WORK IN CITY YARD.
17.
WORK IS LIMITED TO THE SUMMER MONTHS, BETWEEN APRIL 15 AND OCTOBER 31.  CONTRACTOR SHALL NOT WORK WHEN THERE HAS BEEN MORE THAN 0.25-INCH OF RAIN IN THE PREVIOUS 24
HOURS AND THERE IS A MORE THAN 40% CHANCE OF RAIN OCCURRING. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL RAINWATER, STORMWATER AND GROUNDWATER CONTROL PER PROJECT
SPECIFICATIONS.
18. CONTRACTOR SHALL NOTIFY, BY CIRCULAR, AS DIRECTED BY THE ENGINEER, ALL BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS AND RESIDENCES AFFECTED BY THE WORK, AT LEAST 48 HOURS PRIOR  TO THE
START OF CONSTRUCTION. CIRCULAR SHALL BE SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS/ CITY ENGINEER.
19. NO CHANGE TO THE PROJECT IMPROVEMENT PLANS SHALL BE PERMITTED WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL BY THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS/ CITY ENGINEER.
20. ALL PERMANENT IMPROVEMENTS REMOVED OR DAMAGED BY THE CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESTORED TO THEIR ORIGINAL LOCATION AND CONDITION BY THE CONTRACTOR USING NEW MATERIALS
AS DIRECTED BY THE ENGINEER.
21. CONTRACTOR SHALL PERFORM HIS CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION IN A MANNER WHICH WILL NOT ALLOW HARMFUL POLLUTANTS TO ENTER WATER COURSES OR SAN FRANCISCO BAY. TO
ENSURE COMPLIANCE, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL IMPLEMENT THE APPROPRIATE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) AS OUTLINED IN THE BROCHURES TITLED "CONSTRUCTION BEST
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES" ISSUED BY THE SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PROGRAM, TO SUIT THE CONSTRUCTION SITE AND JOB CONDITION. THE CONTRACTOR
SHALL PRESENT HIS PROPOSED BMP AT THE PRE-CONSTUCTION MEETING FOR DISCUSSION AND APPROVAL.
22. CONTRACTOR SHALL CONTROL DUST ACCORDING TO THE SPECIFICATIONS.
23. CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR HANDLING STORM DRAIN AND CREEK WATER DURING CONSTRUCTION.
TITLE SHEET
SAN MATEO COUNTY BENCHMARK "BM O55-005", SOUTHWESTERLY BOLT OF ELECTROLIER LOCATED AT THE EAST
CORNER OF DORE AVENUE AND KINGSTON STREET. ELEVATION 98.344 FEET, CITY OF SAN MATEO DATUM.
TO OBTAIN ELEVATIONS IN NAVD88 DATUM, SUBTRACT 94.94 FEET.
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
225 of 662

--- page 226 ---
N 
(
A
-
1' WIDE WEIR
35'
1'
2'-2"
REMOVE OAK
TREE
REMOVE DEAD
TREE AND
BRANCHES
MATCH (EX)
99.1
MATCH (EX)
TOP OF
BANK 98.2
CAUTION -
PROTECT OH
ELECTRIC
(4)18" Ø ROSCOE MOSS
STORMFLO FULL
TRASH  CAPTURE
DEVICES. SEE DETAIL
1, SHEET C3
TRIM
OVERHANGING
BRANCHES IN
CHANNEL
53'-1"
16'
MATCH (EX)
TOP OF
BANK 99.6
1'-3"
5'
5'
6'
10'-8"
3'-6"
1'-7"
25'-2"
1'-5"
LIMITS OF
WORK
PROTECT
BACK
FLOW
PREVENTOR
MATCH (EX)
99.1
TEMPORARY
DEWATERING
AREA
(1474 SF)
TEMPORARY
FLEXIBLE
PLASTIC
BYPASS
PIPING
SITE PARKING AND
STAGING AREA (864 SF),
SEE DETAIL 3 SHEET C3
REMOVE VEGETATION AND
GRADE PERMEABLE
ASPHALT PARKING PAD TO
EXISTING GROUND
ELEVATION
320 CU. FT OF
PERMANENT FILL
BELOW BANK AND
236 CU. FT OF
PERMANENT FILL
BELOW OHWM IN
CHANNEL
(INCLUDES WEIR,
TRASH CAPTURE
DEVICES, AND
TRASH CAPTURE
ANCHOR PLATE)
488 SF FOOTPRINT OF
IMPACT BELOW BANK
AND 361 SF FOOTPRINT
OF IMPACT BELOW
OHWM (INCLUDES WEIR,
CONCRETE
REPLACEMENT,  TRASH
CAPTURE DEVICES, AND
TRASH CAPTURE
ANCHOR PLATE)
2' WIDE DEWATERING
COFFERDAM
OHWM LINE
10' WIDE CHANNEL
REPLACEMENT
TRASH CAPTURE
DEVICE ANCHOR
PLATE
6' WIDE DEWATERING
COFFERDAM
18" Ø OPENING FOR
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICE
18" Ø TRASH
CAPTURE
DEVICE. SEE
SHEET 3
3' HIGH
WEIR WALL
APPROX. BANK
PROFILE
EXISTING CONCRETE
LINED CHANNEL
INVERT
EXISTING  58"x
36" ELLIPTICAL
DRAIN OUTLET
HIGH
COFFERDAM
 TEMPORARY
FLEXIBLE
BYPASS PIPE
HIGH
COFFERDAM
6'
2'-2"
SCALE: 1 INCH = 4 FEET
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: CYT
DESIGNED BY: CYT
QC CHECKED BY: VB
PROJECT No. XXXXX
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR GOLF COURSE TRASH
CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXXXX
(415) 433-4848
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94102
870 MARKET STREET, SUITE 1278
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
Schaaf    Wheeler
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
IMPROVEMENT PLAN AND PROFILE
2
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
SITE PLAN
SCALE: 1"=4'
SECTION
-
A
PROJECT IMPACT
TEMPORARY IMPACT BELOW BANK
(340 SF) AND BELOW OHWM (206
SF)
COFFERDAM
BYPASS PIPE
PERMANENT IMPACT BELOW BANK
(1465 SF) AND BELOW OHWM (361
SF)
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES AND
ANCHOR PLATES
WEIR
10' WIDE CHANNEL REPLACEMENT
PERMEABLE ASPHALT PARKING
PAD
SCALE: 1"=4'
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
226 of 662

--- page 227 ---
1"
2"
2"
5/8"
38"
6"
38"
6"
234"
4"
1916"
11516"
4"
1'-4"
112"
12"
14"
14 ROWS
8 ROWS
2"
14"
916"
4"
Ø1'-658"
2"
114"
2'-2"
1'-1"
Ø7/8"
2"
LATCHES 2 PLACES
LOCATED SAME AS HINGES
3'
16"
8"
4"
4"
14"
Ø1'-718"
LATCHES 2 PLACES
LOCATED SAME AS HINGES
3'
16
11516"
304 SS
4"x4" HINGE 1/4" THICK WITH HATCH STOP
2 PLACES ON HATCH
5"
2"
38"
2"
8"
23 4"
2"
112"
1/2" THICK ANCHOR PLATE
2'-2"
INFLOW VIEW
Ø1'-618"
1'
2"
Ø1'-65 8"
1'-9"
1'-1118"
PIPE SUPPORT & COUPLING DETAILS
SADDLE TYPE WITH Ø18-5/8" ID HALF COUPLING 4"
WIDE
COUPLING COLLAR
Ø1'-658"
1'
BASE PLATE
10"
END SUPPORT
OUTFLOW VIEW
PERFORATED END
PLATE
END SECTIONS
Ø18-5/8" OD, 1/4" WALL PIPE 14 ROWS OF LOUVER 0.200" OPENING
SIZE 2-5/8 MINIMUM LENGTH. MATERIAL ROLLED TO PIPE PRIOR TO
PERFORATING
2"
2"
5"
2"
2"
16"
MIDDLE SECTION(S)
Ø18-5/8" OD, 1/4" WALL PIPE 14 ROWS OF LOUVER 0.200" OPENING
SIZE 2-5/8 MINIMUM LENGTH. MATERIAL ROLLED TO PIPE PRIOR TO
PERFORATING
5'
TWO HANDLES WELDED ON EACH HATCH
(LOCATE TYP TO HINGE LOCATION)
1'
234"
OVERFLOW SECTION
Ø18-5/8" OD, 1/4" WALL PIPE 14 ROWS OF LOUVER 0.200" OPENING SIZE
2-5/8" MINIMUM LENGTH AND
WITH 12"x16" OVERFLOW WINDOW
1/2" THICK ANCHOR PLATE
2'-3"
3'
2"
2"
2"
GENERAL NOTES:
1.  SCREEN PIPE MANUFACTURED ACCORDING TO ASTM A778
2.  HATCHES TO HAVE A MECHANICAL STOP TO HOLD ON OPEN POSITION,
MATERIAL THICKNESS 1/2"
3.  HATCH OPENINGS TO HAVE A 1" X 1/4" BAR FOR FRAME SUPPORT AND SEAT
FOR HATCH
4. LATCHES TO BE RATED AT 907Kg, 304L ALL AMERICAN MODEL #341-SS OR
COMPARABLE
5.  304L HINGES 1/4" THICK LEAF, 4" x 4" OPEN DIMENSION, Ø5/8 BRASS PIN
6.  ALL MATERIALS TO BE 316 SS UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED
7.  WELDING TO CONFORM WITH AWS D1.6 2017 ED PRE-QUALIFIED
8. ALL DIMENSIONS IN INCHES UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
9.  FRACTIONAL TOLERANCES ± 1/4" FOR DIAMETERS UP TO  24"OD AND ± 1/2 FOR
DIAMETERS ABOVE 24" OD
10.  HATCH OPENING ORIENTATION TO MATCH CONFIGURATION AS DETAILED IN
CE&G PROJECT PLANS
10'
23 4"
10"
5"
10'
10"
234"
2'-4"
3'
16"
234"
10"
NOTES:
1. TREE PROTECTED ZONE (TPZ), HAS RADIUS
OF 10 FEET OR 10-TIMES THE DIAMETER OF
THE TREE, WHICHEVER IS GREATER
2. ANY PROPOSED TRENCH OR FORM WORK
WITHIN THE TPZ OF A PROTECTED TREE
REQUIRES APPROVAL FROM THE ARBORIST
3. TREE FENCING IS REQUIRED AND SHALL BE
ERECTED BEFORE DEMOLITION, GRADING, OR
CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
3
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: CYT
DESIGNED BY: CYT
QC CHECKED BY: CJG
PROJECT No. XXX
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR AT GOLF COURSE
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXX
(415) 433-4848
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94102
870 MARKET STREET, SUITE 1278
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
Schaaf    Wheeler
CONSTRUCTION DETAILS
64#5*%#2674'&'8+%'
Ä

NTS
64''2416'%6+10&'6#+.
Ä

NTS
5+6'2#8'/'06&'6#+.
Ä

NTS
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
227 of 662

--- page 228 ---
4
4
SHEET ______ OF ______
DRAWN BY: CYT
DESIGNED BY: CYT
QC CHECKED BY: CJG
PROJECT No. XXX
SCALE: AS SHOWN
SUBMITTAL: 75%
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE: 07/21/21
DATE
BY
DESCRIPTION
REV. NO.
POPLAR AT GOLF COURSE
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICE
CITY PROJECT NO. XXX
(415) 433-4848
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94102
870 MARKET STREET, SUITE 1278
CONSULTING CIVIL ENGINEERS
Schaaf    Wheeler
SMCWPPP CONSTRUCTION BMP's
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
228 of 662

--- page 229 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Appendix D 
 
APPENDIX D – DATABASE RESULTS FOR SPECIAL STATUS SPECIES 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
229 of 662

--- page 230 ---
Biological Resources Technical Report 
October 2021 
WRA, Inc. 
Appendix D 
 
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
230 of 662

--- page 231 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Acanthomintha duttonii
San Mateo thorn-mint
G1
S1
Endangered
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
325
550
5
S:2
0
0
0
0
1
1
2
0
1
1
0
Adela oplerella
Opler's longhorn moth
G2
S2
None
None
100
100
14
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Agrostis blasdalei
Blasdale's bent grass
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
BLM_S-Sensitive
SB_UCSC-UC Santa 
Cruz
50
50
62
S:1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
Allium peninsulare var. franciscanum
Franciscan onion
G5T2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
20
1,025
25
S:10
1
4
1
0
0
4
4
6
10
0
0
Amsinckia lunaris
bent-flowered fiddleneck
G3
S3
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
BLM_S-Sensitive
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
SB_UCSC-UC Santa 
Cruz
220
475
93
S:5
0
2
1
0
0
2
2
3
5
0
0
Antrozous pallidus
pallid bat
G4
S3
None
None
BLM_S-Sensitive
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
USFS_S-Sensitive
WBWG_H-High 
Priority
40
40
420
S:2
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
0
2
0
0
Arctostaphylos franciscana
Franciscan manzanita
GHC
S1
Endangered
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
700
700
4
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
Arctostaphylos imbricata
San Bruno Mountain manzanita
G1
S1
None
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
900
1,000
2
S:2
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
2
0
0
Query Criteria:
Quad<span style='color:Red'> IS </span>(San Francisco South (3712264)<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Hunters Point (3712263)<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>San Mateo 
(3712253)<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Montara Mountain (3712254))<br /><span style='color:Red'> AND </span>Taxonomic Group<span style='color:Red'> IS </span>(Fish<span 
style='color:Red'> OR </span>Amphibians<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Reptiles<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Birds<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Mammals<span 
style='color:Red'> OR </span>Mollusks<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Arachnids<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Crustaceans<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Insects<span 
style='color:Red'> OR </span>Ferns<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Gymnosperms<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Monocots<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Dicots<span 
style='color:Red'> OR </span>Lichens<span style='color:Red'> OR </span>Bryophytes)
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 1 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
231 of 662

--- page 232 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Arctostaphylos montana ssp. ravenii
Presidio manzanita
G3T1
S1
Endangered
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
700
700
7
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
Arctostaphylos montaraensis
Montara manzanita
G1
S1
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
SB_USDA-US Dept of 
Agriculture
900
1,500
4
S:4
2
0
1
1
0
0
1
3
4
0
0
Arctostaphylos pacifica
Pacific manzanita
G1
S1
None
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
1,045
1,045
1
S:1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
Arctostaphylos regismontana
Kings Mountain manzanita
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
1,000
1,000
17
S:2
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
0
2
0
0
Astragalus pycnostachyus var. 
pycnostachyus
coastal marsh milk-vetch
G2T2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
BLM_S-Sensitive
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
SB_SBBG-Santa 
Barbara Botanic 
Garden
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
25
S:2
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
0
2
0
0
Astragalus tener var. tener
alkali milk-vetch
G2T1
S1
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
50
50
65
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
Athene cunicularia
burrowing owl
G4
S3
None
None
BLM_S-Sensitive
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
USFWS_BCC-Birds of 
Conservation Concern
5
5
2011
S:1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
Banksula incredula
incredible harvestman
G1
S1
None
None
1,110
1,110
1
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Bombus caliginosus
obscure bumble bee
G4?
S1S2
None
None
IUCN_VU-Vulnerable
30
400
181
S:5
0
0
0
0
0
5
4
1
5
0
0
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 2 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
232 of 662

--- page 233 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Bombus occidentalis
western bumble bee
G2G3
S1
None
Candidate 
Endangered
USFS_S-Sensitive
40
800
306
S:9
0
0
0
0
0
9
9
0
9
0
0
Brachyramphus marmoratus
marbled murrelet
G3
S2
Threatened
Endangered
CDF_S-Sensitive
IUCN_EN-Endangered
NABCI_RWL-Red 
Watch List
800
800
110
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
1
0
0
Caecidotea tomalensis
Tomales isopod
G2
S2S3
None
None
50
2,100
6
S:2
0
0
1
1
0
0
2
0
2
0
0
Calicina minor
Edgewood blind harvestman
G1
S1
None
None
400
400
2
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Callophrys mossii bayensis
San Bruno elfin butterfly
G4T1
S3
Endangered
None
600
1,882
6
S:6
2
1
0
0
0
3
1
5
6
0
0
Carex comosa
bristly sedge
G5
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 2B.1
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
0
0
32
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
Centromadia parryi ssp. parryi
pappose tarplant
G3T2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
BLM_S-Sensitive
10
23
39
S:2
0
0
0
1
0
1
1
1
2
0
0
Charadrius nivosus nivosus
western snowy plover
G3T3
S2
Threatened
None
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
NABCI_RWL-Red 
Watch List
USFWS_BCC-Birds of 
Conservation Concern
5
10
138
S:2
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
0
2
0
0
Chloropyron maritimum ssp. palustre
Point Reyes salty bird's-beak
G4?T2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
BLM_S-Sensitive
5
5
76
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
Chorizanthe cuspidata var. cuspidata
San Francisco Bay spineflower
G2T1
S1
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
50
650
17
S:8
0
0
2
0
0
6
5
3
8
0
0
Chorizanthe robusta var. robusta
robust spineflower
G2T1
S1
Endangered
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
150
150
20
S:2
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
0
0
2
0
Cicindela hirticollis gravida
sandy beach tiger beetle
G5T2
S2
None
None
10
10
34
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
Cirsium andrewsii
Franciscan thistle
G3
S3
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
100
450
31
S:3
0
0
0
0
1
2
3
0
2
1
0
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 3 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
233 of 662

--- page 234 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Cirsium fontinale var. fontinale
fountain thistle
G2T1
S1
Endangered
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
400
400
5
S:1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
Cirsium occidentale var. compactum
compact cobwebby thistle
G3G4T2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
BLM_S-Sensitive
100
100
30
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
Collinsia corymbosa
round-headed Chinese-houses
G1
S1
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
25
25
13
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Collinsia multicolor
San Francisco collinsia
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
SB_UCSC-UC Santa 
Cruz
100
700
36
S:16
0
4
0
0
0
12
9
7
16
0
0
Corynorhinus townsendii
Townsend's big-eared bat
G4
S2
None
None
BLM_S-Sensitive
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
USFS_S-Sensitive
WBWG_H-High 
Priority
320
700
635
S:2
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
2
2
0
0
Danaus plexippus pop. 1
monarch - California overwintering population
G4T2T3
S2S3
Candidate
None
USFS_S-Sensitive
100
150
383
S:2
0
0
0
0
1
1
2
0
1
1
0
Dicamptodon ensatus
California giant salamander
G3
S2S3
None
None
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
IUCN_NT-Near 
Threatened
650
650
234
S:1
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
Dipodomys venustus venustus
Santa Cruz kangaroo rat
G4T1
S1
None
None
42
42
29
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
Dirca occidentalis
western leatherwood
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
255
1,265
90
S:15
3
3
2
0
0
7
4
11
15
0
0
Dufourea stagei
Stage's dufourine bee
G1G2
S1
None
None
700
700
1
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 4 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
234 of 662

--- page 235 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Emys marmorata
western pond turtle
G3G4
S3
None
None
BLM_S-Sensitive
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
IUCN_VU-Vulnerable
USFS_S-Sensitive
40
525
1398
S:10
1
7
2
0
0
0
2
8
10
0
0
Erethizon dorsatum
North American porcupine
G5
S3
None
None
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
509
509
523
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Eriophyllum latilobum
San Mateo woolly sunflower
G1
S1
Endangered
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
100
900
8
S:6
1
2
1
0
0
2
0
6
6
0
0
Eucyclogobius newberryi
tidewater goby
G3
S3
Endangered
None
AFS_EN-Endangered
IUCN_VU-Vulnerable
20
20
127
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
Euphydryas editha bayensis
Bay checkerspot butterfly
G5T1
S1
Threatened
None
100
1,000
30
S:5
0
0
0
0
5
0
5
0
0
1
4
Falco columbarius
merlin
G5
S3S4
None
None
CDFW_WL-Watch List
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
65
65
37
S:1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
Falco peregrinus anatum
American peregrine falcon
G4T4
S3S4
Delisted
Delisted
CDF_S-Sensitive
CDFW_FP-Fully 
Protected
USFWS_BCC-Birds of 
Conservation Concern
5
10
58
S:2
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
2
2
0
0
Fritillaria biflora var. ineziana
Hillsborough chocolate lily
G3G4T1
S1
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
SB_USDA-US Dept of 
Agriculture
550
550
2
S:2
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
1
2
0
0
Fritillaria liliacea
fragrant fritillary
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
USFS_S-Sensitive
295
800
82
S:6
0
2
0
0
1
3
4
2
5
0
1
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 5 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
235 of 662

--- page 236 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Geothlypis trichas sinuosa
saltmarsh common yellowthroat
G5T3
S3
None
None
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
USFWS_BCC-Birds of 
Conservation Concern
25
480
112
S:4
0
1
0
0
0
3
4
0
4
0
0
Gilia capitata ssp. chamissonis
blue coast gilia
G5T2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
10
650
37
S:4
0
1
0
0
0
3
3
1
4
0
0
Gilia millefoliata
dark-eyed gilia
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
BLM_S-Sensitive
54
S:3
0
0
0
0
2
1
3
0
1
0
2
Grindelia hirsutula var. maritima
San Francisco gumplant
G5T1Q
S1
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 3.2
SB_UCSC-UC Santa 
Cruz
50
1,000
15
S:9
0
0
1
1
1
6
9
0
8
0
1
Helianthella castanea
Diablo helianthella
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
700
700
107
S:2
0
1
0
0
1
0
1
1
1
1
0
Hemizonia congesta ssp. congesta
congested-headed hayfield tarplant
G5T2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
52
S:2
0
0
0
0
1
1
2
0
1
1
0
Hesperevax sparsiflora var. brevifolia
short-leaved evax
G4T3
S3
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
BLM_S-Sensitive
400
500
72
S:2
0
0
0
0
1
1
2
0
1
1
0
Hesperolinon congestum
Marin western flax
G1
S1
Threatened
Threatened
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
200
600
27
S:5
0
2
2
0
1
0
2
3
4
1
0
Heteranthera dubia
water star-grass
G5
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 2B.2
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
9
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Horkelia cuneata var. sericea
Kellogg's horkelia
G4T1?
S1?
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_UCSC-UC Santa 
Cruz
USFS_S-Sensitive
150
600
58
S:4
0
0
0
0
1
3
4
0
3
1
0
Horkelia marinensis
Point Reyes horkelia
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
300
300
36
S:2
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
0
2
0
0
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 6 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
236 of 662

--- page 237 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Hydrochara rickseckeri
Ricksecker's water scavenger beetle
G2?
S2?
None
None
35
35
13
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Hydroporus leechi
Leech's skyline diving beetle
G1?
S1?
None
None
680
680
13
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
1
0
Hypogymnia schizidiata
island tube lichen
G2G3
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.3
1,290
1,780
10
S:3
2
0
0
0
0
1
0
3
3
0
0
Ischnura gemina
San Francisco forktail damselfly
G2
S2
None
None
IUCN_VU-Vulnerable
25
540
7
S:4
0
0
0
0
1
3
4
0
3
1
0
Lasiurus cinereus
hoary bat
G3G4
S4
None
None
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
WBWG_M-Medium 
Priority
20
20
238
S:6
0
0
0
0
0
6
6
0
6
0
0
Lasthenia californica ssp. macrantha
perennial goldfields
G3T2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
BLM_S-Sensitive
40
350
59
S:2
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
2
2
0
0
Laterallus jamaicensis coturniculus
California black rail
G3G4T1
S1
None
Threatened
BLM_S-Sensitive
CDFW_FP-Fully 
Protected
IUCN_NT-Near 
Threatened
NABCI_RWL-Red 
Watch List
USFWS_BCC-Birds of 
Conservation Concern
5
25
303
S:2
0
0
0
1
0
1
2
0
2
0
0
Layia carnosa
beach layia
G2
S2
Endangered
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
SB_SBBG-Santa 
Barbara Botanic 
Garden
40
40
25
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
Leptosiphon croceus
coast yellow leptosiphon
G1
S1
None
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
50
50
1
S:1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
Leptosiphon rosaceus
rose leptosiphon
G1
S1
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
70
70
31
S:4
0
1
0
0
2
1
2
2
2
2
0
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 7 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
237 of 662

--- page 238 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Lessingia arachnoidea
Crystal Springs lessingia
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
300
500
11
S:6
2
2
0
0
0
2
1
5
6
0
0
Lessingia germanorum
San Francisco lessingia
G1
S1
Endangered
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
150
500
5
S:2
0
0
1
0
1
0
2
0
1
1
0
Lichnanthe ursina
bumblebee scarab beetle
G2
S2
None
None
15
20
8
S:2
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
0
2
0
0
Limnanthes douglasii ssp. ornduffii
Ornduff's meadowfoam
G4T1
S1
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_UCSC-UC Santa 
Cruz
30
50
2
S:2
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
2
1
1
0
Malacothamnus arcuatus
arcuate bush-mallow
G2Q
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
10
700
30
S:6
0
1
0
1
1
3
4
2
5
0
1
Melospiza melodia pusillula
Alameda song sparrow
G5T2?
S2S3
None
None
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
USFWS_BCC-Birds of 
Conservation Concern
10
42
38
S:5
0
0
0
0
0
5
5
0
5
0
0
Monardella sinuata ssp. nigrescens
northern curly-leaved monardella
G3T2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
SB_SBBG-Santa 
Barbara Botanic 
Garden
25
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
Monolopia gracilens
woodland woollythreads
G3
S3
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
640
640
68
S:2
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
0
2
0
0
Mylopharodon conocephalus
hardhead
G3
S3
None
None
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
USFS_S-Sensitive
20
20
33
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Myotis thysanodes
fringed myotis
G4
S3
None
None
BLM_S-Sensitive
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
USFS_S-Sensitive
WBWG_H-High 
Priority
500
500
86
S:1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
Neotoma fuscipes annectens
San Francisco dusky-footed woodrat
G5T2T3
S2S3
None
None
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
311
522
42
S:5
0
1
0
0
0
4
0
5
5
0
0
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 8 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
238 of 662

--- page 239 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Nyctinomops macrotis
big free-tailed bat
G5
S3
None
None
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
WBWG_MH-Medium-
High Priority
150
150
32
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Oncorhynchus mykiss irideus pop. 8
steelhead - central California coast DPS
G5T2T3Q
S2S3
Threatened
None
AFS_TH-Threatened
100
550
44
S:3
0
1
0
0
0
2
2
1
3
0
0
Pentachaeta bellidiflora
white-rayed pentachaeta
G1
S1
Endangered
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
500
500
14
S:3
0
0
0
0
2
1
3
0
1
1
1
Phalacrocorax auritus
double-crested cormorant
G5
S4
None
None
CDFW_WL-Watch List
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
30
75
39
S:3
0
0
2
0
0
1
3
0
3
0
0
Plagiobothrys chorisianus var. chorisianus
Choris' popcornflower
G3T1Q
S1
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
BLM_S-Sensitive
SB_UCSC-UC Santa 
Cruz
75
1,250
42
S:5
0
2
0
0
0
3
2
3
5
0
0
Plebejus icarioides missionensis
Mission blue butterfly
G5T1
S1
Endangered
None
200
750
14
S:13
0
2
1
0
1
9
11
2
13
0
0
Polemonium carneum
Oregon polemonium
G3G4
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 2B.2
16
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Polygonum marinense
Marin knotweed
G2Q
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 3.1
32
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Potentilla hickmanii
Hickman's cinquefoil
G1
S1
Endangered
Endangered
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
25
240
4
S:2
0
1
0
0
1
0
1
1
1
0
1
Rallus obsoletus obsoletus
California Ridgway's rail
G3T1
S1
Endangered
Endangered
CDFW_FP-Fully 
Protected
NABCI_RWL-Red 
Watch List
0
15
99
S:8
0
1
4
0
1
2
3
5
7
1
0
Rana boylii
foothill yellow-legged frog
G3
S3
None
Endangered
BLM_S-Sensitive
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
IUCN_NT-Near 
Threatened
USFS_S-Sensitive
878
878
2476
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 9 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
239 of 662

--- page 240 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Rana draytonii
California red-legged frog
G2G3
S2S3
Threatened
None
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
IUCN_VU-Vulnerable
6
4,005
1664
S:58
16
17
13
0
1
11
7
51
57
1
0
Reithrodontomys raviventris
salt-marsh harvest mouse
G1G2
S1S2
Endangered
Endangered
CDFW_FP-Fully 
Protected
IUCN_EN-Endangered
2
2
144
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Riparia riparia
bank swallow
G5
S2
None
Threatened
BLM_S-Sensitive
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
10
40
298
S:3
0
1
0
0
0
2
2
1
3
0
0
Sanicula maritima
adobe sanicle
G2
S2
None
Rare
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_SBBG-Santa 
Barbara Botanic 
Garden
USFS_S-Sensitive
250
250
17
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
Senecio aphanactis
chaparral ragwort
G3
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 2B.2
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
SB_CRES-San Diego 
Zoo CRES Native 
Gene Seed Bank
640
640
98
S:2
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
0
2
0
0
Silene scouleri ssp. scouleri
Scouler's catchfly
G5T4T5
S2S3
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 2B.2
780
1,025
23
S:11
0
0
0
0
0
11
7
4
11
0
0
Silene verecunda ssp. verecunda
San Francisco campion
G5T1
S1
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
SB_UCSC-UC Santa 
Cruz
25
1,500
20
S:7
0
1
0
0
2
4
4
3
5
2
0
Speyeria callippe callippe
callippe silverspot butterfly
G5T1
S1
Endangered
None
250
900
12
S:6
0
1
1
0
0
4
3
3
6
0
0
Speyeria zerene myrtleae
Myrtle's silverspot butterfly
G5T1
S1
Endangered
None
20
60
17
S:2
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
0
0
0
2
Spirinchus thaleichthys
longfin smelt
G5
S1
Candidate
Threatened
0
0
46
S:2
0
0
0
0
0
2
1
1
2
0
0
Suaeda californica
California seablite
G1
S1
Endangered
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
5
5
18
S:3
0
0
1
0
0
2
0
3
3
0
0
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 10 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
240 of 662

--- page 241 ---
Elev.
Element Occ. Ranks
Population Status
Presence
Name (Scientific/Common)
CNDDB 
Ranks
Listing Status 
(Fed/State)
Other Lists
Range
(ft.)
Total 
EO's
A
B
C
D
X
U
Historic 
> 20 yr
Recent 
<= 20 yr
Extant
Poss. 
Extirp.
Extirp.
Taxidea taxus
American badger
G5
S3
None
None
CDFW_SSC-Species 
of Special Concern
IUCN_LC-Least 
Concern
1,500
1,500
594
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Thamnophis sirtalis tetrataenia
San Francisco gartersnake
G5T2Q
S2
Endangered
Endangered
CDFW_FP-Fully 
Protected
10
1,000
66
S:22
2
7
2
0
4
7
10
12
18
0
4
Trachusa gummifera
San Francisco Bay Area leaf-cutter bee
G1
S1
None
None
93
93
3
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Trifolium amoenum
two-fork clover
G1
S1
Endangered
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.1
SB_CalBG/RSABG-
California/Rancho 
Santa Ana Botanic 
Garden
SB_UCBG-UC 
Botanical Garden at 
Berkeley
SB_USDA-US Dept of 
Agriculture
26
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Trifolium hydrophilum
saline clover
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
56
S:1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
0
0
Triphysaria floribunda
San Francisco owl's-clover
G2?
S2?
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
5
450
50
S:14
0
0
0
0
5
9
14
0
9
3
2
Triquetrella californica
coastal triquetrella
G2
S2
None
None
Rare Plant Rank - 1B.2
USFS_S-Sensitive
400
1,200
13
S:3
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
3
3
0
0
Tryonia imitator
mimic tryonia (=California brackishwater 
snail)
G2
S2
None
None
IUCN_DD-Data 
Deficient
0
0
39
S:1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
Report Printed on Tuesday, September 28, 2021
Page 11 of 11
Commercial Version -- Dated September, 3 2021 -- Biogeographic Data Branch
Information Expires 3/3/2022
Summary Table Report
California Department of Fish and Wildlife
California Natural Diversity Database
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
241 of 662

--- page 242 ---
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
242 of 662

--- page 243 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
1/17
IPaC resource list
This report is an automatically generated list of species and other resources such as critical
habitat
(collectively referred to as trust resources) under the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service's (USFWS)
jurisdiction that are known or expected to be on or near the project area
referenced below. The list
may also include trust resources that occur outside of the project area,
but that could potentially be
directly or indirectly affected by activities in the project area.
However, determining the likelihood
and extent of effects a project may have on trust resources
typically requires gathering additional
site-specific (e.g., vegetation/species surveys) and
project-specific (e.g., magnitude and timing of
proposed activities) information.
Below is a summary of the project information you provided and contact information for the USFWS
office(s)
with jurisdiction in the defined project area. Please read the introduction to each section
that
follows (Endangered Species, Migratory Birds, USFWS Facilities, and NWI Wetlands) for
additional
information applicable to the trust resources addressed in that section.
Location
San Mateo County, California
Local office
Sacramento Fish And Wildlife Office
 (916) 414-6600
 (916) 414-6713
Federal Building
2800 Cottage Way, Room W-2605
Sacramento, CA 95825-1846
U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service
IPaC
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
243 of 662

--- page 244 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
2/17
Endangered species
This resource list is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an analysis of
project level impacts.
The primary information used to generate this list is the known or expected range of each species.
Additional areas of influence (AOI) for species are also considered. An AOI includes areas outside of
the species range if the species could be indirectly affected by activities in that area (e.g., placing a
dam upstream of a fish population even if that fish does not occur at the dam site, may indirectly
impact the species by reducing or eliminating water flow downstream). Because species can move,
and site conditions can change, the species on this list are not guaranteed to be found on or near
the project area. To fully determine any potential effects to species, additional site-specific and
project-specific information is often required.
Section 7 of the Endangered Species Act requires Federal agencies to "request of the Secretary
information whether any species which is listed or proposed to be listed may be present in the area
of such proposed action" for any project that is conducted, permitted, funded, or licensed by any
Federal agency. A letter from the local office and a species list which fulfills this requirement can
only be obtained by requesting an official species list from either the Regulatory Review section in
IPaC (see directions below) or from the local field office directly.
For project evaluations that require USFWS concurrence/review, please return to the IPaC website
and request an official species list by doing the following:
1. Draw the project location and click CONTINUE.
2. Click DEFINE PROJECT.
3. Log in (if directed to do so).
4. Provide a name and description for your project.
5. Click REQUEST SPECIES LIST.
Listed species  and their critical habitats are managed by the Ecological Services Program of the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the fisheries division of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA Fisheries ).
Species and critical habitats under the sole responsibility of NOAA Fisheries are not shown on this
list. Please contact NOAA Fisheries for species under their jurisdiction.
1. Species listed under the Endangered Species Act
are threatened or endangered; IPaC also shows
species that are candidates, or proposed, for listing.
See the listing status page for more
information. IPaC only shows
species that are regulated by USFWS (see FAQ).
2. NOAA Fisheries, also known as the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), is an office of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration within the Department of Commerce.
The following species are potentially affected by activities in this location:
Mammals
1
2
NAME
STATUS
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
244 of 662

--- page 245 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
3/17
Birds
Reptiles
Amphibians
Salt Marsh Harvest Mouse
 Reithrodontomys raviventris
Wherever found
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/613
Endangered
NAME
STATUS
California Clapper Rail
 Rallus longirostris obsoletus
Wherever found
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/4240
Endangered
California Least Tern
 Sterna antillarum browni
Wherever found
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/8104
Endangered
Marbled Murrelet
 Brachyramphus marmoratus
There is final critical habitat for this species.
The location of the
critical habitat is not available.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/4467
Threatened
Western Snowy Plover
 Charadrius nivosus nivosus
There is final critical habitat for this species.
The location of the
critical habitat is not available.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/8035
Threatened
NAME
STATUS
Green Sea Turtle
 Chelonia mydas
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/6199
Threatened
San Francisco Garter Snake
 Thamnophis sirtalis tetrataenia
Wherever found
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/5956
Endangered
NAME
STATUS
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
245 of 662

--- page 246 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
4/17
Fishes
Insects
Flowering Plants
California Red-legged Frog
 Rana draytonii
Wherever found
There is final critical habitat for this species.
The location of the
critical habitat is not available.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/2891
Threatened
NAME
STATUS
Delta Smelt
 Hypomesus transpacificus
Wherever found
There is final critical habitat for this species.
The location of the
critical habitat is not available.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/321
Threatened
NAME
STATUS
Monarch Butterfly
 Danaus plexippus
Wherever found
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/9743
Candidate
NAME
STATUS
California Seablite
 Suaeda californica
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/6310
Endangered
Fountain Thistle
 Cirsium fontinale var. fontinale
Wherever found
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/7939
Endangered
Marin Dwarf-flax
 Hesperolinon congestum
Wherever found
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/5363
Threatened
San Mateo Thornmint
 Acanthomintha obovata ssp. duttonii
Wherever found
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/2038
Endangered
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
246 of 662

--- page 247 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
5/17
Critical habitats
Potential effects to critical habitat(s) in this location must be analyzed along with the endangered
species themselves.
THERE ARE NO CRITICAL HABITATS AT THIS LOCATION.
Migratory birds
The birds listed below are birds of particular concern either because they occur on the USFWS Birds
of Conservation Concern (BCC) list or warrant special attention in your project location. To learn
more about the levels of concern for birds on your list and how this list is generated, see the FAQ
below. This is not a list of every bird you may find in this location, nor a guarantee that every bird on
this list will be found in your project area. To see exact locations of where birders and the general
public have sighted birds in and around your project area, visit the E-bird data mapping tool (Tip:
San Mateo Woolly Sunflower
 Eriophyllum latilobum
Wherever found
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/7791
Endangered
White-rayed Pentachaeta
 Pentachaeta bellidiflora
Wherever found
No critical habitat has been designated for this species.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/7782
Endangered
Certain birds are protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act  and the Bald and Golden Eagle
Protection Act .
Any person or organization who plans or conducts activities that may result in impacts to migratory
birds, eagles, and their habitats should follow appropriate regulations and consider implementing
appropriate conservation measures, as described below.
1. The Migratory Birds Treaty Act of 1918.
2. The Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act of 1940.
Additional information can be found using the following links:
Birds of Conservation Concern http://www.fws.gov/birds/management/managed-species/
birds-of-conservation-concern.php
Measures for avoiding and minimizing impacts to birds
http://www.fws.gov/birds/management/project-assessment-tools-and-guidance/
conservation-measures.php
Nationwide conservation measures for birds
http://www.fws.gov/migratorybirds/pdf/management/nationwidestandardconservationmeasures.pdf
1
2
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
247 of 662

--- page 248 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
6/17
enter your location, desired date range and a species on your list). For projects that occur off the
Atlantic Coast, additional maps and models detailing the relative occurrence and abundance of bird
species on your list are available. Links to additional information about Atlantic Coast birds, and
other important information about your migratory bird list, including how to properly interpret and
use your migratory bird report, can be found below.
For guidance on when to schedule activities or implement avoidance and minimization measures to
reduce impacts to migratory birds on your list, click on the PROBABILITY OF PRESENCE SUMMARY at
the top of your list to see when these birds are most likely to be present and breeding in your
project area.
NAME
BREEDING SEASON (IF A
BREEDING SEASON IS INDICATED
FOR A BIRD ON YOUR LIST, THE
BIRD MAY BREED IN YOUR
PROJECT AREA SOMETIME WITHIN
THE TIMEFRAME SPECIFIED,
WHICH IS A VERY LIBERAL
ESTIMATE OF THE DATES INSIDE
WHICH THE BIRD BREEDS
ACROSS ITS ENTIRE RANGE.
"BREEDS ELSEWHERE" INDICATES
THAT THE BIRD DOES NOT LIKELY
BREED IN YOUR PROJECT AREA.)
Allen's Hummingbird
 Selasphorus sasin
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/9637
Breeds
Feb 1
to
Jul 15
Bald Eagle
 Haliaeetus leucocephalus
This is not a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) in this area, but
warrants attention because of the Eagle Act or for potential
susceptibilities in offshore areas from certain types of development
or activities.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/1626
Breeds
Jan 1
to
Aug 31
Black Oystercatcher
 Haematopus bachmani
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/9591
Breeds
Apr 15
to
Oct 31
Black Skimmer
 Rynchops niger
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/5234
Breeds
May 20
to
Sep 15
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
248 of 662

--- page 249 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
7/17
Black Tern
 Chlidonias niger
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/3093
Breeds
May 15
to
Aug 20
Black Turnstone
 Arenaria melanocephala
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
Breeds elsewhere
California Thrasher
 Toxostoma redivivum
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
Breeds
Jan 1
to
Jul 31
Clark's Grebe
 Aechmophorus clarkii
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
Breeds
Jun 1
to
Aug 31
Common Yellowthroat
 Geothlypis trichas sinuosa
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) only in particular Bird
Conservation Regions (BCRs) in the continental USA
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/2084
Breeds
May 20
to
Jul 31
Golden Eagle
 Aquila chrysaetos
This is not a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) in this area, but
warrants attention because of the Eagle Act or for potential
susceptibilities in offshore areas from certain types of development
or activities.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/1680
Breeds
Jan 1
to
Aug 31
Gull-billed Tern
 Gelochelidon nilotica
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/9501
Breeds
May 1
to
Jul 31
Long-eared Owl
 asio otus
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/3631
Breeds
Mar 1
to
Jul 15
Marbled Godwit
 Limosa fedoa
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/9481
Breeds elsewhere
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
249 of 662

--- page 250 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
8/17
Probability of Presence Summary
The graphs below provide our best understanding of when birds of concern are
most likely to be
present in your project area. This information can be used to tailor and schedule
your project
activities to avoid or minimize impacts to birds. Please make sure you read and understand the FAQ
"Proper Interpretation and Use of Your Migratory Bird Report" before using or attempting to
interpret this report.
Probability of Presence ( )
Each green bar represents the bird's relative probability of presence in the 10km grid cell(s) your
project
overlaps during a particular week of the year. (A year is represented as 12 4-week months.)
A taller bar
indicates a higher probability of species presence. The survey effort (see below) can be
used to establish a
level of confidence in the presence score. One can have higher confidence in the
presence score if the
corresponding survey effort is also high.
Nuttall's Woodpecker
 Picoides nuttallii
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) only in particular Bird
Conservation Regions (BCRs) in the continental USA
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/9410
Breeds
Apr 1
to
Jul 20
Oak Titmouse
 Baeolophus inornatus
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/9656
Breeds
Mar 15
to
Jul 15
Olive-sided Flycatcher
 Contopus cooperi
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/3914
Breeds
May 20
to
Aug 31
Short-billed Dowitcher
 Limnodromus griseus
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/9480
Breeds elsewhere
Tricolored Blackbird
 Agelaius tricolor
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
http://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/3910
Breeds
Mar 15
to
Aug 10
Willet
 Tringa semipalmata
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
Breeds elsewhere
Wrentit
 Chamaea fasciata
This is a Bird of Conservation Concern (BCC) throughout its range in
the continental USA and Alaska.
Breeds
Mar 15
to
Aug 10
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
250 of 662

--- page 251 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
9/17
 no data
 survey effort
 breeding season
 probability of presence
How is the probability of presence score calculated? The calculation is done in three steps:
1. The probability of presence for each week is calculated as the number of survey events
in the
week where the species was detected divided by the total number of survey events for that
week.
For example, if in week 12 there were 20 survey events and the Spotted Towhee was
found in 5 of them,
the probability of presence of the Spotted Towhee in week 12 is 0.25.
2. To properly present the pattern of presence across the year, the relative probability
of presence
is calculated. This is the probability of presence divided by the
maximum probability of presence
across all weeks.
For example, imagine the probability of presence in week 20 for the Spotted
Towhee is 0.05, and that
the probability of presence at week 12 (0.25) is the maximum of any
week of the year. The relative
probability of presence on week 12 is 0.25/0.25 = 1; at week 20 it is
0.05/0.25 = 0.2.
3. The relative probability of presence calculated in the previous step undergoes a statistical
conversion so that all possible values fall between 0 and 10, inclusive. This is the probability of
presence score.
To see a bar's probability of presence score, simply hover your mouse cursor over the bar.
Breeding Season ( )
Yellow bars denote a very liberal estimate of the time-frame inside which the bird breeds across its
entire range.
If there are no yellow bars shown for a bird, it does not breed in your project area.
Survey Effort ( )
Vertical black lines superimposed on probability of presence bars indicate the number of surveys
performed for
that species in the 10km grid cell(s) your project area overlaps. The number of
surveys is expressed as a range,
for example, 33 to 64 surveys.
To see a bar's survey effort range, simply hover your mouse cursor over the bar.
No Data ( )
A week is marked as having no data if there were no survey events for that week.
Survey Timeframe
Surveys from only the last 10 years are used in order to ensure delivery of currently relevant
information.
The exception to this is areas off the Atlantic coast, where bird returns are based on all
years of available
data, since data in these areas is currently much more sparse.
SPECIES
JAN
FEB
MAR
APR
MAY
JUN
JUL
AUG
SEP
OCT
NOV
DEC
Allen's
Hummingbird
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
251 of 662

--- page 252 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
10/17
Bald Eagle
Non-BCC
Vulnerable
(This is
not a Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC) in
this area, but
warrants attention
because of the
Eagle Act or for
potential
susceptibilities in
offshore areas
from certain types
of development or
activities.)
Black
Oystercatcher
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Black Skimmer
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Black Tern
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Black Turnstone
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
252 of 662

--- page 253 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
11/17
California Thrasher
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Clark's Grebe
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Common
Yellowthroat
BCC - BCR
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC) only
in particular Bird
Conservation
Regions (BCRs) in
the continental
USA)
Golden Eagle
Non-BCC
Vulnerable
(This is
not a Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC) in
this area, but
warrants attention
because of the
Eagle Act or for
potential
susceptibilities in
offshore areas
from certain types
of development or
activities.)
Gull-billed Tern
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
253 of 662

--- page 254 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
12/17
Long-eared Owl
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
SPECIES
JAN
FEB
MAR
APR
MAY
JUN
JUL
AUG
SEP
OCT
NOV
DEC
Marbled Godwit
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Nuttall's
Woodpecker
BCC - BCR
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC) only
in particular Bird
Conservation
Regions (BCRs) in
the continental
USA)
Oak Titmouse
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Olive-sided
Flycatcher
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
254 of 662

--- page 255 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
13/17
Short-billed
Dowitcher
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Tricolored
Blackbird
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Willet
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Wrentit
BCC Rangewide
(CON)
(This is a
Bird of
Conservation
Concern (BCC)
throughout its
range in the
continental USA
and Alaska.)
Tell me more about conservation measures I can implement to avoid or minimize impacts to migratory birds.
Nationwide Conservation Measures
describes measures that can help avoid and minimize impacts to all birds at
any location year round. Implementation
of these measures is particularly important when birds are most likely to
occur in the project area. When birds may
be breeding in the area, identifying the locations of any active nests and
avoiding their destruction is a very
helpful impact minimization measure. To see when birds are most likely to
occur and be breeding in your project
area, view the Probability of Presence Summary.
Additional measures
or
permits may be advisable
depending on the type of activity you are conducting and the type of infrastructure or
bird species present on your project site.
What does IPaC use to generate the migratory birds potentially occurring in my specified location?
The Migratory Bird Resource List is comprised of USFWS
Birds of Conservation Concern (BCC)
and other species
that may warrant special attention in your project location.
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
255 of 662

--- page 256 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
14/17
The migratory bird list generated for your project is derived from data provided by the
Avian Knowledge Network
(AKN). The AKN data is based
on a growing collection of
survey, banding, and citizen science datasets
and is
queried and filtered to return a list of those birds reported as occurring in the 10km grid cell(s) which your project
intersects,
and that have been identified as warranting special attention because they are a BCC species in that
area, an
eagle (Eagle Act
requirements may apply), or a species that has a particular vulnerability to offshore
activities or development.
Again, the Migratory Bird Resource list includes only a subset of birds that may occur in your project area. It is
not
representative of all birds that may occur in your project area. To get a list of all birds potentially present
in your
project area, please visit the
AKN Phenology Tool.
What does IPaC use to generate the probability of presence graphs for the migratory birds potentially
occurring in my specified location?
The probability of presence graphs associated with your migratory bird list are based on data provided by the
Avian Knowledge Network (AKN).
This data is derived from a growing collection of
survey, banding, and citizen
science datasets
.
Probability of presence data is continuously being updated as new and better information becomes available. To
learn more about how the probability of presence graphs are produced and how to interpret them, go the
Probability
of Presence Summary and then click on the "Tell me about these graphs" link.
How do I know if a bird is breeding, wintering, migrating or present year-round in my project area?
To see what part of a particular bird's range your project area falls within (i.e. breeding, wintering, migrating
or
year-round), you may refer to the following resources:
The Cornell Lab of Ornithology All About Birds Bird Guide,
or
(if you are unsuccessful in locating the bird of interest there), the
Cornell Lab of Ornithology Neotropical Birds
guide.
If a bird on your migratory bird species list has a breeding season associated with it, if that bird does occur
in
your project area, there may be nests present at some point within the timeframe specified.
If "Breeds
elsewhere" is indicated, then the bird likely does not breed in your project area.
What are the levels of concern for migratory birds?
Migratory birds delivered through IPaC fall into the following distinct categories of concern:
1. "BCC Rangewide" birds are Birds of Conservation Concern (BCC) that are of concern throughout their range
anywhere within the USA
(including Hawaii, the Pacific Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands);
2. "BCC - BCR" birds are BCCs that are of concern only in particular Bird Conservation Regions (BCRs) in the
continental USA; and
3. "Non-BCC - Vulnerable" birds are not BCC species in your project area, but appear on your list either because of
the
Eagle Act
requirements (for eagles) or (for non-eagles) potential susceptibilities in offshore areas from
certain types
of development or activities (e.g. offshore energy development or longline fishing).
Although it is important to try to avoid and minimize impacts to all birds, efforts should be made, in particular,
to
avoid and minimize impacts to the birds on this list, especially eagles and BCC species of rangewide concern.
For
more information on conservation measures you can implement to help avoid and minimize migratory bird
impacts
and requirements for eagles, please see the FAQs for these topics.
Details about birds that are potentially affected by offshore projects
For additional details about the relative occurrence and abundance of both individual bird species and
groups of
bird species within your project area off the Atlantic Coast, please visit the
Northeast Ocean Data Portal.
The Portal
also offers data and information about other taxa besides birds that may be helpful to you in your
project review.
Alternately, you may download the bird model results files underlying the portal maps through the
NOAA NCCOS
Integrative Statistical Modeling and Predictive Mapping of Marine Bird Distributions and Abundance on the Atlantic
Outer Continental Shelf
project webpage.
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
256 of 662

--- page 257 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
15/17
Bird tracking data can also provide additional details about occurrence and habitat use throughout the year,
including migration.
Models relying on survey data may not include this information.
For additional information on
marine bird tracking data, see the
Diving Bird Study
and the
nanotag studies
or contact
Caleb Spiegel or Pam
Loring.
What if I have eagles on my list?
If your project has the potential to disturb or kill eagles, you may need to
obtain a permit
to avoid violating the
Eagle Act should such impacts occur.
Proper Interpretation and Use of Your Migratory Bird Report
The migratory bird list generated is not a list of all birds in your project area, only a subset of birds of
priority
concern. To learn more about how your list is generated, and see options for identifying what other birds
may be
in your project area, please see the FAQ "What does IPaC use to generate the migratory birds potentially
occurring
in my specified location". Please be aware this report provides the "probability of presence" of birds
within the 10
km grid cell(s) that overlap your project; not your exact project footprint. On the graphs provided,
please also look
carefully at the survey effort (indicated by the black vertical bar) and for the existence of the
"no data" indicator (a
red horizontal bar). A high survey effort is the key component. If the survey effort is high,
then the probability of
presence score can be viewed as more dependable. In contrast, a low survey effort bar or no
data bar means a lack
of data and, therefore, a lack of certainty about presence of the species. This list is not
perfect; it is simply a starting
point for identifying what birds of concern have the potential to be in your
project area, when they might be there,
and if they might be breeding (which means nests might be present). The list
helps you know what to look for to
confirm presence, and helps guide you in knowing when to implement conservation
measures to avoid or
minimize potential impacts from your project activities, should presence be confirmed. To learn
more about
conservation measures, visit the FAQ "Tell me about conservation measures I can implement to avoid or
minimize
impacts to migratory birds" at the bottom of your migratory bird trust resources page.
Facilities
National Wildlife Refuge lands
Any activity proposed on lands managed by the National Wildlife Refuge system must undergo a
'Compatibility Determination' conducted by the Refuge. Please contact the individual Refuges to
discuss any questions or concerns.
THERE ARE NO REFUGE LANDS AT THIS LOCATION.
Fish hatcheries
THERE ARE NO FISH HATCHERIES AT THIS LOCATION.
Wetlands in the National Wetlands Inventory
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
257 of 662

--- page 258 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
16/17
Impacts to NWI wetlands and other aquatic habitats may be subject to regulation under Section 404
of the Clean Water Act, or other State/Federal statutes.
For more information please contact the Regulatory Program of the local U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers District.
Please note that the NWI data being shown may be out of date. We are currently working to update
our NWI data set. We recommend you verify these results with a site visit to determine the actual
extent of wetlands on site.
This location overlaps the following wetlands:
Data limitations
The Service's objective of mapping wetlands and deepwater habitats is to produce reconnaissance level
information on the location, type and size of these resources. The maps are prepared from the analysis of high
altitude imagery. Wetlands are identified based on vegetation, visible hydrology and geography. A margin of error
is inherent in the use of imagery; thus, detailed on-the-ground inspection of any particular site may result in
revision of the wetland boundaries or classification established through image analysis.
The accuracy of image interpretation depends on the quality of the imagery, the experience of the image analysts,
the amount and quality of the collateral data and the amount of ground truth verification work conducted.
Metadata should be consulted to determine the date of the source imagery used and any mapping problems.
Wetlands or other mapped features may have changed since the date of the imagery or field work. There may be
occasional differences in polygon boundaries or classifications between the information depicted on the map and
the actual conditions on site.
Data exclusions
Certain wetland habitats are excluded from the National mapping program because of the limitations of aerial
imagery as the primary data source used to detect wetlands. These habitats include seagrasses or submerged
aquatic vegetation that are found in the intertidal and subtidal zones of estuaries and nearshore coastal waters.
Some deepwater reef communities (coral or tuberficid worm reefs) have also been excluded from the inventory.
These habitats, because of their depth, go undetected by aerial imagery.
Data precautions
Federal, state, and local regulatory agencies with jurisdiction over wetlands may define and describe wetlands in a
different manner than that used in this inventory. There is no attempt, in either the design or products of this
inventory, to define the limits of proprietary jurisdiction of any Federal, state, or local government or to establish
the geographical scope of the regulatory programs of government agencies. Persons intending to engage in
activities involving modifications within or adjacent to wetland areas should seek the advice of appropriate federal,
FRESHWATER EMERGENT WETLAND
PEM1Cx
PEM1Ch
FRESHWATER POND
PUBHx
RIVERINE
R4SBAx
A full description for each wetland code can be found at the National Wetlands Inventory website
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
258 of 662

--- page 259 ---
9/6/21, 10:08 PM
IPaC: Explore Location resources
https://ecos.fws.gov/ipac/location/VTOAE2G4DJCB5KCFXC3BW5KSFA/resources
17/17
state, or local agencies concerning specified agency regulatory programs and proprietary jurisdictions that may
affect such activities.
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
259 of 662

--- page 260 ---
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C473E141-36D3-4044-A1EC-D26583CE2809
260 of 662

--- page 261 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5837
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Facility Naming Policy – Adoption 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the Parks, Open Space Lands and Public Facility Naming Policy. 
BACKGROUND:
In fall 2021, staff received several inquiries from individuals requesting consideration to name a park facility in memory/in 
honor of someone they believed was deserving.  In reviewing the criteria by which parks, open spaces and other park 
facilities can be named, staff determined that the existing policy from 1979 appeared out of date and lacked the specificity 
that may be helpful to staff, the Park and Recreation Commission (“Commission”) and the City Council when considering 
requests for facility naming (Attachment 2). 
The existing policy distinguishes between the criteria for the naming of parks and open spaces versus public facilities or 
amenities within parks such as buildings, ballfields, trails, etc.  Parks are named after their geographic location or unusual 
natural features, whereas facilities or amenities may be named after selected individuals in their honor.  In general, park 
naming has followed this protocol with only three exceptions, King Park, dedicated in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King; 
Bayside Joinville Park, in which the Joinville name was added in honor of Sgt. Gordon Joinville, a San Mateo police officer 
who died in the line of duty; and Trinta Park,  named in honor of Manuel Trinta, who donated the land for use as a Little 
League field.  Requests for facility or amenity naming for selected individuals has been intermittent over the years but has 
included dedications such as the John Lee Dog Park, the Gary Yates Bocce Court Complex, Fitzgerald Field at Central Park, 
and Chanteloup Field at Beresford Park. 
The Commission had several discussions, first to consider general policy direction and then a second to review and 
comment on a first draft before approving a final version of the policy at its February meeting by a vote of 5-0.  The final 
version being presented to the City Council reflects the following general policy recommendations of the Commission: 

Parks and open spaces should continue to be named after their geographical locations or by significant or unusual 
natural, cultural, geographical, historical or environmental features.  Renaming of parks where existing names 
have common community acceptance is strongly discouraged.  Naming of parks after individuals or organizations 
may be considered under special circumstances, i.e. significant donation of land or in recognition of an individual 
who contributed extraordinary service to the City.

Public facilities or amenities within parks may be named after selected individuals and should be considered a 
special honor in recognition of their outstanding contributions that may include a donation of land or a significant 
financial contribution to improve a facility, a record of meaningful volunteer or community service, or noteworthy 
public service as a community member. 

The current review and approval process for naming remains largely unchanged, i.e. review and recommendation 
261 of 662

--- page 262 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
by the Director of Parks and Recreation, review and recommendation by the Commission, and final consideration 
and action by the City Council. It should be noted, however, that both the Commission and the City Council must 
each conduct a public hearing under the proposed policy, which, if approved, would be a new procedural 
requirement.

As an alternative to facility naming, the City may choose to recognize individuals through the placement of objects 
such as benches, flagpoles, monument rocks, etc. within a park and include dedication signage as appropriate. 
If approved, the Resolution will rescind existing Resolution 49 (1979) and adopt the updated Policy (Attachment 1). 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact for taking this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of an updated parks, open spaces, and public facilities naming policy is not a project subject to CEQA because it is 
an organization or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes to the environment  
(CEQA Section 15378 (b) (5). 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Resolution No. 49 (1979) 
STAFF CONTACT
Sheila Canzian, Director, Park and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
262 of 662

--- page 263 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ ( 2022)
PARKS, OPEN SPACE LANDS AND PUBLIC FACILITY NAMING POLICY 
WHEREAS, the existing Policy for Naming City-Owned Park and Open Space Lands, Public Facilities and 
Places dates from 1979 ; and
WHEREAS, staff determined that the policy was outdated and needed better criteria to assist staff, the 
Park and Recreation Commission and the City Council when evaluating the merit of facility naming requests;           
and
WHEREAS,  the Park and Recreation Commission provided general policy direction and comments before 
approving the proposed updated policy at their meeting on February 2, 2022 by a vote of 5-0 ; and
WHEREAS, the Park and Recreation Commission is recommending that the City Council approve the new 
policy in order to provide better guidelines for staff, the Commission and the City Council when evaluating 
facility naming requests. 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, 
hereby: 
1.
Rescinds Resolution No. 49 (1979) Establishing Policy and Procedures for Naming City-Owned Park 
and Open Space Lands, Public Facilities and Places; and
2.
Approves the Parks, Open Space Lands and Public Facility Naming Policy in substantially the formed 
attached to this Resolution.  
263 of 662

--- page 264 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PARKS, OPEN SPACE LANDS AND PUBLIC FACILITY NAMING POLICY
Section I:  Purpose and Application 
A. Purpose: To provide guidelines and procedures for the naming of City Parks, Open Space 
lands and public facilities and amenities within parks. 
B. Application: This policy has been created to guide staff, the Park and Recreation 
Commission and the City Council in taking action concerning requests to name City parks, 
open space lands and public facilities and amenities within parks.  This process does not 
apply to the naming of streets or other non-park civic facilities. 
C. The City Council shall have the final authority to approve names of parks, open space lands 
and public facilities and amenities within parks after review and recommendation by the 
Park and Recreation Commission and Department of Parks and Recreation staff.  
Section II: Definitions 
A. Parks: Real property owned and managed by the City used for public recreation purposes, 
whether developed or undeveloped, including lands identified as open space. 
B. Public Facilities and Amenities: City owned facilities/amenities that are located within a park 
or within part of a facility.  Examples include, but are not limited to, athletic/ball fields, 
recreation buildings, picnic areas, trails, sports courts, playgrounds, gardens and meeting 
rooms within a facility.  
Section III: Policy
A. Parks:
1)  Each park and open space shall be named after its geographical location or by its 
significant or unusual natural, cultural, geographical, historical or environmental 
feature.  Names shall not be duplicated and shall be compatible with the area in 
which the park and open space is located. 
2) Naming parks after individuals or organizations may be considered under special 
circumstances such as a significant donation of land to the City and Department of 
Parks and Recreation or in recognition of an individual who contributed 
extraordinary service to the City of San Mateo. 
3) Renaming of parks where existing names have common community usage and 
acceptance is strongly discouraged and will be considered only under rare 
circumstances. 
B. Public Facilities and Amenities: 
264 of 662

--- page 265 ---
1) Public facilities and amenities within parks may be named after selected individuals 
or organizations in their honor.  Naming is a special recognition that is considered 
for persons and organizations deserving exceptional recognition for their unique, 
substantial or outstanding contribution to the Department of Parks and Recreation 
or to a specific park or amenity.  Criteria that will be considered include, but are not 
limited to: donation of land or significant financial gifts to improve a facility; a record 
of meaningful volunteer service to the Department of Parks and Recreation or to a 
facility; and substantial and noteworthy public service as a community member.
2) Satisfying one or more of the criteria listed above does not assure approval of any 
naming recommendation. 
3) The preference is for an individual to be deceased, but this is not a requirement. 
4) In the case where an existing named facility is demolished or decommissioned, the 
City Council may choose to discontinue the use of the name, re-use the name for a 
replacement facility or re-assign the name to another similar facility. 
Section IV: Process for Naming Parks and Public Facilities and Amenities 
A.  Any member of the public may submit a written request for naming a Park or Public Facility 
or Amenity to the Director of Parks and Recreation for consideration by the Park and 
Recreation Commission and City Council. Nominators should provide  supporting 
background and justification  for one or more of the criteria outlined above in Section B.1. 
The Director will conduct any research necessary to make an informed recommendation to 
the Park and Recreation Commission. The Commission will review the proposed naming 
recommendation, conduct a public hearing and make a recommendation to the City Council 
to either support or deny the request
The City Council will review the proposed recommendation, conduct a public hearing and 
vote whether to approve or deny the naming.  Nothing in the policy shall preclude either 
the Park and Recreation Commission or City Council from initiating a naming request on 
their own.    
B. Upon approval by the City Council, the site shall officially be designated as such on all maps 
and records. 
C. A dedication plaque consistent with the existing setting and landscape shall be placed at 
each named facility and where possible, include information on the contributions of the 
individual.  Responsibility for the purchase and installation of any dedication plaque shall be 
borne by the requesting party unless otherwise negotiated with the Department of Parks 
and Recreation.  On delivery to the City, the dedication plaque shall become the property of 
the City. The location, size and type of recognition objects shall be approved by the 
Department of Parks and Recreation. 
The City will make reasonable effort to preserve any dedication plaque or other object 
placed at the site.  If required, due to repair of the surrounding area, construction or re-
265 of 662

--- page 266 ---
design of a facility or any other reason, the plaque may be relocated, removed, stored or 
otherwise disposed in the sole discretion of the City  
Section V: Naming Rights as Part of a Fundraising Campaign 
A. When undertaking major park or facility renovations and/or new construction, the 
Department of Parks and Recreation may choose to engage in fundraising campaigns  in 
order to raise community awareness and provide financial assistance to the City.  This policy 
allows for Naming Rights to fund amenities within a park, such as buildings, playgrounds, 
athletic/ballfields, picnic areas, etc.  Naming Right opportunities and levels of sponsorship 
shall be identified in advance and publicized as part of the fundraising campaign.  
Recognition should be commensurate with said donations or funding.  
An agreement between the City and major donors shall be negotiated which outlines the 
terms of the donation, including the length of time the Naming Right shall be in effect. 
 
B. Naming Rights shall be aligned with the mission and values of the Department of Parks and 
Recreation and the City of San Mateo and shall avoid products, services or affiliations that 
promote political or religious organizations,  alcohol, tobacco and cannabis products, or are 
otherwise considered derogatory or offensive by community standards. The City Council 
shall have the right to approve or deny any proposed facility name. 
Section VI: Non-Facility Naming Opportunities
As an alternative to the facility naming opportunities described above, the City may choose 
to recognize individuals, either living or deceased or organizations by the placement of 
objects such as public benches, flagpoles, rocks, trees, or other features within a park or 
facility.  The approval, placement and identification of these dedications will be at the 
discretion of the Parks and Recreation Department staff.  A dedication plaque, appropriate 
to the setting and landscape will be installed.      
Section VII: Miscellaneous
A. No park, open space or facility shall be named after a seated, elected or appointed official. 
B. This policy encourages naming of parks and facilities in a manner which reflects the City’s 
ethnic and cultural diversity and elicit a positive image for all residents.  
    
266 of 662

--- page 267 ---
- Ss Mens 5

; - RESOLUTION NO. 49 (1979)

ESTABLISHING POLICY AND PROCEDURES FOR
NAMING CITY-OWNED PARK AND OPEN SPACE
LANDS, PUBLIC FACILITIES AND PLACES

RESOLVED, by the Council of the City of San Mateo, California,
that: ;

WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has many parks and open space
lands, public facilities and places which are either unnamed or
designated by the general geographical location, with some duplica-
tions, resulting in staff and public confusion as to the precise
location of each site; and :

. WHEREAS, no uniformly, consistent policy has been followed
in naming said sites as they have been named or designated ona
Site-by-site basis, or simply referred to by geographical area,
and there is a need to establish a policy and procedure for naming
such sites to enable the public to locate them readily and to permit
permanent designation on maps and plans; and

WHEREAS, a study of the problem has been made by the Park
and Recreation Commission, and after a hearing thereon on March 7,
1979, has recommended the adoption of policies and procedures for
~Maming such lands, facilities ana places, which appear necessary
and appropriate in the public interest and should, therefore, be
adopted for immediate implementation;

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY DETERMINED and ORDERED, that:

_ i. This Council finds that it is a matter of public interest,
convenience and necessity that a policy and procedures be established
for naming public lands, facilities and places to facilitate proper
reference and location for all purposes.

2. The policy and procedures for naming city-owned park and
open space lands, public facilities and public places shall be as
follows:

a. Each park and open space land shall be named after
its geographical location, without duplication in the
geographical area, or by its significant or unusual natural
features.

b. Each public facility or place within parks, such as
ball-playing fields, groves, walkways, trails and buildings
may be named after selected individuals in their honor as
desired and appropriate.

&nbsp;
267 of&nbsp;662


--- page 268 ---
c. The proposed names of said lands, facilities and
places shall first be submitted to the Director -of Parks
and Recreation, who shall conduct the necessary research
and study to either support or propose alternatives thereto
for submission to the Park and Recreation Commission at
their next regular meeting Following submission of the
pEnpOREL«

At such meeting, the Commission shall review the
proposed name or names for the site or sites being considered
and make the recommendations to the City Council for formal
adoption of the official name for the land, facility or
place. Upon adoption by the Council, the site shall there-
after be officially designated as such on all maps and plans.

3. The City Manager is hereby directed to cause the immediate
implementation of this policy by causing a survey to be made of all
“such lands, facilities and places which require names for all
reference purposes, and to cause the initiation of, and invitation
to the public for proposals for naming said sites in accordance
with this policy and procedure. ‘

/s/ JANE BAKER
Mayor

ATTEST:

(SEAL) /s/ JOAN HINCKLEY
City Clerk

&nbsp;
268 ofsenbsp: 662


--- page 269 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5897
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Central Park Playground and Memorial Grove Final Design and Construction Management Service – Agreement 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with RRM Design Group for final design, construction documents and construction administration 
services for the Central Park Playground and Memorial Grove improvement project in the amount of $570,239; establish a 
contingency reserve of $50,000 for a total of $620,239; and authorize the Director of Parks and Recreation to execute the 
agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency amount. 
BACKGROUND:
In April 2018, the City Council approved the updated Master Plan for Central Park.  In March 2019, an RFP was distributed 
seeking design development landscape architect services for first phase improvements, which include renovation of the 
children’s play area and the creation of a Fallen Heroes Memorial Grove to honor San Mateo residents who died in 
combat, as well as public safety personnel who died while in service to the San Mateo community.  RRM Design Group was 
awarded the agreement for services in July 2019 and over the past several years has worked with staff and the community 
to create preferred designs for the new play area as well as for the Fallen Heroes Memorial Grove.  Both of these designs 
have been reviewed by the public, the Park and Recreation Commission, as well as the City Council.  Although the July 
2019 agreement and scope of services included a task for construction drawing preparation and bidding and construction 
management services, those items were not funded as the cost would be contingent upon the final design selected, its 
complexity and site requirements and the customization of the playground equipment.  Now that the designs for both the 
playground and Memorial have been developed, RRM Design Group has prepared the cost of services in order to bring 
both projects to execution.  In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code Section 3.60.040(c), competitive bidding is not 
required for these professional services. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient balance in the Central Park Capital Improvement Project to fund the proposed scope of work.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The preparation of construction documents and construction administration services is not a project subject to CEQA as 
these are organizational or administrative activities that will  not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378 (b) (5).  The environmental impacts of implementing the Central Park 
Master Plan were previously evaluated in a Negative Declaration approved in April 2018. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
269 of 662

--- page 270 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Sheila Canzian, Director, Park and Recreation
scanzian@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7404
270 of 662

--- page 271 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 1 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
AGREEMENT WITH RRM DESIGN GROUP 
FOR DESIGN PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
FOR 
CENTRAL PARK PHASE I CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS AND ADMINISTRATION  
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and RRM DESIGN GROUP , a California Corporation , (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 321 
Davis St , San Leandro, CA, 94577: 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain Construction Drawings and Construction Administration Services for 
Central Park Phase I Implementation hereinafter described. 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these Construction Drawings and 
Construction Administration services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such 
services and CONSULTANT has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner 
set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
271 of 662

--- page 272 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 2 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 1, 2022 and be 
completed on or about December 31, 2025.  
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
of $570,239, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by 
reference. 
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
 
 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
272 of 662

--- page 273 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 3 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent CONSULTANT as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s negligence, recklessness or willful misconduct to the maximum extent permitted 
by state law.  To the extent permitted by Civil Code section 2782.8, CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its 
elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter the insurance specified in Exhibit B to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
273 of 662

--- page 274 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 4 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law. The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
 
SECTION 16 – SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
sub-consultants shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
274 of 662

--- page 275 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 5 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Sheila Canzian, Director of Parks and 
Recreation  
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403  
 
To CONSULTANT: 
RRM Design Group  
Attn:  Lief McKay, Principal  
321 David Street  
San Leandro, CA 94577 
 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
275 of 662

--- page 276 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 6 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
276 of 662

--- page 277 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 7 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY and CONSULTANT have executed this Agreement the day and year 
first above written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
Sheila Canzian 
Director of Parks and Recreation  
 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
Lief McKay 
Its Authorized Agent 
Principal  
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) 
President or 2) Vice President plus 
an additional corporate officer 
(i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who 
shall sign below. 
 
Date 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE 
OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Gabrielle Whelan 
Assistant City Attorney 
Date 
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
3/10/2022
3/10/2022
277 of 662

--- page 278 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 8 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
Exhibit A 
 
Scope of Services 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
278 of 662

--- page 279 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 9 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  2 of 17   
  
DESCRIPTION OF WORK TO BE PERFORMED  
Task A: Playground Final Design    
RRM will utilize the design development (DD) package prepared during Task E of the Central  
Park Master Plan Improvements Phase 1 agreement as the basis to prepare final construction  
documents, also known as plans, specifications, and estimates (PS&E). The PS&E package will  
comply with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 27.71.080 Submittals Required for a Building  
Permit Application. The contents of the PS&E package will be as follows:  
  
Title and Reference Sheets  
Title and reference sheets pursuant to City standards.  
  
Demolition and Staging Plan  
Demolition and staging plans at 20 scale for all structures and elements requiring removal in  
order to implement the playground design. The plans, notes, and legend will locate, identify, and  
describe the removal and provide instructions for disposal. Additionally, the plans will indicate  
items to salvage or stockpile, such as topsoil, for later use in construction. Construction staging,  
fencing, pedestrian circulation, signage, and haul routes will also be included and meet mitigation  
measures MM AIR-1, MM BIO-1, and MM BIO-2 of the ISMND.  
  
Tree Preservation Plan  
Tree preservation plan at 20 scale for all trees to remain and those to be removed. The plan,  
notes, and legend will locate and identify all trees and provide removal and preservation  
instructions per the arborist report, San Mateo MC 13.40.010, and San Mateo MC 27.71.  
  
Erosion Control Plan  
Erosion control plan at 20 scale for the proposed design that illustrates erosion prevention,  
sediment control, and stormwater quality management during construction per the City of San  
Mateo’s Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (SEPPP) and NPDES provisions C.3  
requirements. Plans, notes, and legend to include temporary provisions such as the location of a  
stabilized crushed aggregate construction entrance/exit, sediment trapping devices and barriers  
where required, fiber rolls where required, storm drain inlet protection, soil stockpile locations,  
and construction staging area.  
  
ADA Accessibility Plan  
The plans at 20 scale for the proposed accessibility of the project site. The plans, notes, and  
legend will illustrate the dedicated accessible route, accessible signage, and accessible parking for  
the project. Note: this task assumes that a compliant path of travel exists and does not include  
ADA upgrades beyond the limits of the playground area.   
  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
279 of 662

--- page 280 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 10 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  3 of 17   
  
Horizontal Control Plans  
The plans at 20 scale will establish all horizontal control for the playground. The plans, notes,  
and legend will also identify construction layout control points and a coordinate system for  
locating site elements. Note that the horizontal control plans are not included in the 75% PS&E  
submittal.  
  
Site Utility Plans  
Utility plans at 20 scale to illustrate the existing and proposed utilities for the project site. The  
plans, notes, and legend will layout the water, sewer, and storm drains beginning at the  
upstream ends of each utility within the project limits to the downstream connections at the  
existing service mains, assumed to be directly adjacent to the project. This scope assumes that  
the existing off-site and/or on-site utility systems have adequate capacity for the proposed  
project – analysis of existing utilities’ capacities and design of any improvements beyond the  
point of connection are not included in this scope.  
  
Grading, Drainage and Stormwater Plans  
Grading plans at 20 scale will demonstrate the grading and drainage of the project site. The  
plans, notes, and legend will show all vertical control of the project elements, contour grading,  
spot elevations, and cut and fill estimates within the project site. The plans will detail all drainage  
facilities within site. This scope assumes that the existing off-site or downstream storm drain  
infrastructure has adequate capacity for the proposed site development, and analysis or  
upgrades to this infrastructure is not included.  
  
This project is assumed to create and/or replace more than 10,000 square feet of impervious  
surface and is a C.3 regulated project. RRM will design permanent stormwater treatment in  
accordance with the County C.3 Regulated Projects Guide (C.3 Guide, January 2020). The  
design will utilize a combination of low impact development (e.g., interceptor tree credits, self- 
retaining areas, self-treating areas) and stormwater treatment measures (e.g., bioretention,  
pervious pavements). RRM will prepare a C.3 and C.6 Development Review Checklist and  
accompanying C.3 sizing calculations. Per Appendix H of the C.3 Guide, this project is not  
subject to hydromodification requirements and will be sized for stormwater treatment only.  
  
RRM will perform drainage analyses (hydrology and hydraulic) for the project drainage and  
stormwater designs. The C.3 calculations and exhibits, storm drain hydrologic/hydraulic  
calculations and exhibits, reference documentation, and project narrative will be provided in a  
comprehensive drainage and stormwater control plan.   
  
RRM will submit a draft version of the drainage and stormwater control plan and the C.3 and  
C.6 Development Review Checklist with the 75% PS&E and the final version will be submitted  
with the 95% PS&E.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
280 of 662

--- page 281 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 11 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  4 of 17   
  
  
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)  
A SWPPP is required for this project (more than one acre of disturbed land) .  RRM will prepare  
plans for temporary erosion control facilities. Temporary facilities will be proposed for the  
protection of graded areas and drainage devices. Details and appropriate notes for construction  
best management practices (BMP) and guidelines for implementation are proposed to be in  
conformance with the State of California Water Resources Board requirements and the  
approved staff report, including sediment control recommendations.  
  
The temporary erosion control plans will be incorporated into the project improvement plans  
as well as into the project SWPPP. RRM will conduct a risk determination based on the project’s  
topography, soil, schedule, location, and receiving water and will then prepare the SWPPP based  
on the project-specific risk level. The SWPPP will be based on the 100% PS&E submittal. This  
task includes preparing permit registration documents using the SMARTS database for  
certification by the Client and submittal to the Water Boards. The City will initiate the project  
in SMARTS. This task does not include construction monitoring, QSP services, or SWPPP  
updates during construction.  
  
The SWPPP is included with the 95% PS&E submittal.   
  
Construction Plan  
Construction plans at 20 scale for the overall playground design layout with a keynoting system  
that identifies all construction items, references to appropriate details, and drawing series  
directions. This plan will include and annotate all site features, walls, hardscape, paving materials,  
ramps, stairs, fences, handrails, and lighting.  
  
Play Equipment Plan and Graphics  
Play equipment plans at 10 scale illustrating the play features in the project area. The plans,  
notes, and legend will include the layout of all off-the-shelf and custom play equipment including  
play equipment use zones and information regarding critical fall height.  
  
Restroom Building Plans  
This scope assumes that the new restroom will be pre-engineered and provided by a  
commercial restroom manufacturer such as Romtec, Public Restroom Company, or similar. The  
restroom will be designed during the design development phase of the project (Task E) and will  
include a custom layout and materials to fit the design goals and site aesthetic.   
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
281 of 662

--- page 282 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 12 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  5 of 17   
  
  
Architectural plans, if needed, for a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) submittal, will be  
completed during Task E of the current contract pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code  
27.71.070 . Custom architecture is not included in this scope.  
  
Restroom plan sheets will include floor plans and elevations of the building for bidding purposes.  
Actual shop drawings will be supplied by the manufacturer as a deferred submittal after the  
contract has been awarded.   
  
Site Electrical/Lighting Plans   
Electrical service distribution plans, circuiting, fixture schedules, panel schedules, and electrical  
calculations as required to provide electrical service for site lighting and security purposes,  
irrigation controller, and the restroom building. Preparation of Title 24 Lighting compliance for  
exterior lighting is included. This scope assumes that the existing on-site electrical service is  
adequate for the proposed improvements and a new utility application for the extension of new  
service is not required.   
  
Materials and Site Amenities Plan  
Materials and site amenities plan for the materials and furnishings in the proposed design. This  
plan will show the type and colors of all surfacing, including hardscape, resilient, and synthetic  
surfacing, as well as make, model, and color of all site furnishings  
  
Construction Details  
Details for all construction items illustrated on the construction plans. The details will specify  
materials, dimensions, colors, and finishes and will be keyed to the plan.  
  
Structural Details and Calculations  
Structural plans, details, and calculations for all required features in the playground such as the  
site walls and footings of the boardwalk, towers, and shade structure.   
  
Irrigation Plans and Details  
Irrigation plans at 20 scale illustrating the irrigation design. The plans, notes, and legend will  
detail the system layout, mainline, automatic controller, head layout, piping, filter, and backflow  
device for potable irrigation and/or recycled water irrigation. It is assumed that this system will  
tie into the park’s existing irrigation system. In support of the irrigation plans, we will prepare  
irrigation details that specify the method of construction and proper irrigation system  
component procedures. The irrigation plan will comply with the City park standards, San Mateo  
MC 27.71.080, and the requirements in the Water Conservation in Landscaping project  
information and submission checklist.  
  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
282 of 662

--- page 283 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 13 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  6 of 17   
  
Planting Plans and Details  
Planting plans at 20 scale demonstrating landscape design per San Mateo MC 27.71.100, MC  
27.71 , and City of San Mateo, Cal., Ord. No. 2021-26. Plans, notes, and legend will include  
layout of all planting indicating plant species, quantity, size and location of all shrubs, ground  
cover, and trees. In support of the planting plans, planting details that specify the method of  
construction and proper planting procedures will also be included. The planting package will also  
include all requirements in the City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping project  
information and submission checklist.   
  
Specifications  
Technical specifications (CSI format, Division 02 through 32, as applicable) will be provided as  
part of this submittals listed in the tasks below. This scope assumes the City will provide and  
assemble all general and special provisions related to this project. We will review the general  
and special provisions for compatibility with the technical specifications. 75% PS&E submittal will  
include outline specifications only.  
  
Construction Cost Opinions (75%, 95% and Bid-Ready submittals)  
RRM’s subconsultant will prepare a construction cost opinion for the playground at the 75%,  
95 % and final bid-ready stage. The detailed construction cost opinion will break out each  
component of the design with item descriptions and unit costs. Due to many variables  
surrounding bidding and construction conditions, this opinion will not represent a guarantee  
that bids received will be equal to the opinion.  
  
Subtask A.1: PS&E Coordination and Meetings  
RRM will prepare for and attend up to eight virtual Client meetings throughout the course of  
the final design phase. These meetings are intended to provide an opportunity for staff to  
preview and provide input on the design progress, to address issues that may arise, and for  
general coordination. These meetings will be scheduled as needed throughout the process. This  
task also includes preparation, internal coordination, and meeting minutes time. We will also  
coordinate with a City selected artist to meet the City’s public art requirement.  
  
Deliverables:   
•   Prepare for and attend up to eight (8) virtual meetings with City staff  
  
Subtask A.2: Quality Control Review  
RRM will perform an internal review of the construction documents concurrent with the City’s  
review of the 95% complete submittal. This QA/QC review process will be performed by  
senior-level professionals that are not directly involved in the project to provide an independent  
perspective.  
  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
283 of 662

--- page 284 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 14 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  7 of 17   
  
Deliverables:    
•   Internal QA/QC review   
  
Subtask A.3: 75% PS&E  
RRM will prepare a 75% progress submittal for Parks and Recreation Department review. The  
intent of this submittal is to verify that the design direction is aligned with the City’s  
expectations. The City will provide comments in writing for RRM to respond to.  
  
Deliverables:   
•   75 % PS&E submittal  
  
Subtask A.4: 95% PS&E  
RRM will prepare 95% PS&E package for submittal to the City for building permit review. The  
City is responsible for submitting to all relevant departments, consolidating the various  
comments into a single list/document, and reconciling conflicting comments from different plan  
reviewers.   
  
Deliverables:   
•   95 % PS&E submittal  
  
Subtask A.5: 100% PS&E  
RRM will update the PS&E package based on City plan-check comments and our internal  
QA/QC review and resubmit to the City for back-checking.   
  
Deliverables:   
•   100 % PS&E submittal  
  
Subtask A.6: Bid-Ready PS&E  
When the plans are approved through all relevant departments, RRM will prepare and package  
the bid-ready PS&E submittal and submit electronically to the City. Please note that ‘front-end’  
specifications are the responsibility of the City: general provisions, special provisions, and bid  
forms. We will assist the City in the preparation of the bid schedule including any bid alternates.  
  
Deliverables:   
•   Bid-Ready PS&E submittal   
  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
284 of 662

--- page 285 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 15 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  8 of 17   
  
Subtask A.7: Permit Processing Assistance   
RRM will assist the City’s project manager during the permit review process. This assistance  
could include providing written clarifications, preparing exhibits, or attending extra meetings  
( such as with the City Building Official or Fire Marshal, etc.) at the request of the City.   
  
Due to the unknown nature of the level of effort that might be required, the task allows for 24- 
hours of support.   
  
Deliverables:   
•   24- hours of support during permitting review process   
  
Subtask A.8: Play Equipment Manufacturer Coordination   
The design of the playground includes custom playground equipment that requires close  
coordination between playground equipment manufacturers. This task includes coordination  
time between these manufacturers and RRM.   
  
Deliverables:   
•   Custom play equipment coordination   
  
Task B: Playground Bidding and Construction Support   
Subtask B.1: Bidding Assistance  
RRM will support the City during the bidding process. We will respond to bidder questions and  
pre-bid substitution requests forwarded to us by the City and issue addenda as deemed  
necessary and reasonable by the City to clarify design-related issues. As part of this task, we will  
attend one pre-bid conference.  
  
Deliverables:  
  
•   Attend one (1) pre-bid conference  
•   Response to bidder questions, pre-bid substitution request review, and addenda  
  
Subtask B.2: Construction Administration  
Following the award of the general construction contract, RRM will support the City during the  
construction phase of the project.  
  
We will review and respond to requests for information (RFI), change orders (CO), submittals,  
and contractor supplied shop drawings. Under this task, RRM will also prepare and issue  
supplemental instructions as necessary to clarify technical details. RRM will also coordinate with  
consultants, agency, and City staff as necessary.  
  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
285 of 662

--- page 286 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 16 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  9 of 17   
  
We assume that the City’s project manager and/or construction manager will filter and respond  
directly to RFI that are straightforward and that not all correspondence will require attention  
and response by RRM.  
  
The fee for this scope is derived from an anticipated construction duration of 12-months at an  
average of 4 hours/week; if construction goes beyond that, we will negotiate a contract  
amendment to continue to provide services.  
  
Deliverables:  
  
•   RFI, CO, submittal reviews, shop drawings responses, supplemental instructions, and general  
record keeping documents  
  
Subtask B.3: Construction Meetings and Observation  
RRM’s project manager and/or designated representative will prepare for and attend up to 12  
construction meetings; due to the unpredictable nature of construction, we assume that the  
meeting frequency will vary based on current activity. This scope anticipates a construction  
duration of up to 12 months. The purpose of these meetings is to generally coordinate with the  
City and contractor and to address issues that are topical.   
  
While in attendance at these construction meetings, RRM will conduct field observations. The  
field construction observation is not intended to be an exhaustive check or a detailed inspection  
of the contractor’s work but is rather to allow RRM to become generally familiar with the work  
in progress and to determine, in general, if the work is proceeding in accordance with the  
contract documents. RRM shall not supervise, direct, or have control over the contractor’s  
work nor have any responsibility for the construction means, methods, techniques, sequences,  
or procedures selected by the contractor, nor for the contractor’s safety precautions or  
programs in connection with the work. These rights and responsibilities are solely those of the  
contractor in accordance with the contract documents.  
  
RRM shall not be responsible for any acts or omissions of the contractor, subcontractor, any  
entity performing any portion of the work, or any agents or employees of any of them. RRM  
does not guarantee the performance of the contractor and shall not be responsible for the  
contractor’s failure to perform work in accordance with the contract documents or any  
applicable laws, codes, rules, or regulations.  
  
Deliverables:  
•   Up to twelve (12) construction meetings/field observations  
•   Field observation memoranda  
  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
286 of 662

--- page 287 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 17 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  10 of 17   
  
Subtask B.4: Project Close-Out  
RRM will attend two punch item walks with the contractor and the City, preliminary and final,  
and prepare a memorandum of punch list items for the contractor to address.   
  
Deliverables:  
  
•   Attend two (2) punch item walks and prepare punch list memoranda  
  
Subtask B.5: Record Drawings  
Upon completion of construction work, the design team will compile a digital set of record  
drawings in PDF format based upon the marked-up record drawings, addenda, change orders,  
and other data furnished by the contractor. These record drawings will show significant changes  
made during construction. Because these record drawings are based on unverified information  
provided by a third party, which RRM shall assume will be reliable, RRM cannot and does not  
warrant their accuracy. Note this task does not include re-drafting the contractor markups in  
AutoCAD.  
  
Deliverables:  
  
•   One (1) digital set of record drawings (PDF markups)  
  
Task C: Memorial Grove Final Design    
RRM will prepare final construction documents, also known as final plans, specifications, and  
estimates (PS&E) for the preferred design of the Memorial Grove at Central Park. The Memorial  
Grove is considered a separate project from the Playground (Task J) in regard to funding and  
construction. The PS&E package will comply with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 27.71.080  
Submittals Required for a Building Permit Application.  
  
The description of the contents of the PS&E package are listed in Task J above. However,  
because the scope of this work is smaller than the Playground, some sheets listed above are not  
relevant. The sheets included in this set include:  
•   Title and reference sheets  
•   Demolition and construction staging plan  
•   Tree preservation plan  
•   Erosion control plan  
•   Grading and drainage plan  
•   Utility plan  
•   Construction plan  
•   Construction details  
•   Structural details and calculations  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
287 of 662

--- page 288 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 18 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  11 of 17   
  
•   Site electrical/lighting plans  
•   Specifications (75% submittal as outline specifications)   
•   Construction cost opinions (95% and bid-ready submittals)   
  
Stormwater  
The Memorial Grove project is assumed to create and/or replace 2,500 square feet (sf) to 5,000  
sf and will implement one of the site-design measures for “small project” as defined in section  
2.3.3 and Appendix L of the C.3 Regulated Projects Guide (January 2020). RRM will prepare a  
stormwater checklist for small projects to meet the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution  
Prevention Program requirements.   
  
A project Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan ( SWPPP) is not required for this plan (less than  
one acre of disturbed land); RRM will prepare an erosion control plan for temporary  
construction BMP.  
  
This project is assumed separate from the Playground project (Task J) based on differences in  
anticipated funding sources, construction schedules, and hydrologic conditions.  
  
Subtask C.1: PS&E Coordination and Meetings  
RRM will prepare for and attend up to three Client meetings throughout the course of the final  
design phase. These meetings are intended to provide an opportunity for staff to preview and  
provide input on the design progress, to address issues that may arise, and for general  
coordination. These meetings will be scheduled as needed throughout the process. This task  
also includes preparation, internal coordination, and meeting minutes time.  
  
Deliverables:   
•   Prepare for and attend up to three (3) meetings with City staff (may be virtual meetings)  
  
Subtask C.2: 75% PS&E  
RRM will prepare a 75% progress submittal for internal Parks and Recreation Department  
review. The intent of this submittal is to verify the direction of the design is aligned with the  
City’s expectations and to receive formal comments and direction regarding the site layout and  
general design solutions.  
  
Deliverables:   
•   75 % PS&E submittal  
  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
288 of 662

--- page 289 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 19 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  12 of 17   
  
Subtask C.3: 95% PS&E  
RRM will prepare a 95% submittal for internal staff review and as the first submission to the  
Building Department for permitting plan-check. The City is responsible for submitting to all  
relevant departments, for consolidating the various comments into a single list/document, and  
for reconciling conflicting direction from different plan reviewers.   
  
Deliverables:   
•   95 % PS&E submittal  
  
Subtask C.4: 100% PS&E  
RRM will prepare a 100% submittal for back-check to the Building Department.   
  
Deliverables:   
•   100 % PS&E submittal  
  
Subtask C.5: Bid-Ready PS&E  
When the plans are approved through all relevant departments, RRM will prepare and package  
the bid-ready PS&E submittal and submit electronically to the City. Please note that ‘front-end’  
specifications are the responsibility of the City: general provisions, special provisions, and bid  
form. We will assist the City in the preparation of the bid schedule including any bid alternates.  
  
Deliverables:   
•   Bid-Ready PS&E submittal   
  
Task D: Memorial Grove Bidding and Construction Support   
Subtask D.1: Bidding Assistance  
RRM will support the City during the bidding process. We will respond to bidder questions and  
pre-bid substitution requests forwarded to us by the City and issue addenda as deemed  
necessary and reasonable by the City to clarify design related issues. As a part of this task, we  
will attend one pre-bid conference.  
  
Deliverables:  
  
•   Attend one (1) pre-bid conference  
•   Response to bidder questions, pre-bid substitution request review, and addenda  
  
  
  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
289 of 662

--- page 290 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 20 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  13 of 17   
  
Subtask D.2: Construction Administration  
Following the award of the general construction contract, RRM will support the City during the  
construction phase of the project. We will review and respond to RFI, CO, submittals, and  
contractor supplied shop drawings. Under this task, RRM will also prepare and issue  
supplemental instructions as necessary to clarify technical details. RRM will also coordinate with  
consultants, agency, and City staff as necessary.  
  
We assume that the City’s project manager and/or construction manager will filter and respond  
directly to RFI that are straightforward and that not all correspondence will require attention  
and response by RRM.  
  
Deliverables:  
  
•   RFI, CO, submittal reviews, shop drawings responses, supplemental instructions, and general  
record keeping documents  
  
Subtask D.3: Construction Meetings and Observation  
RRM’s project manager and/or designated representative will prepare for and attend up to four  
construction meetings at the site. The purpose of these meetings is to generally coordinate with  
the City and contractor and to address issues that are topical.   
  
While in attendance at these construction meetings, RRM will conduct field observations. The  
field construction observation is not intended to be an exhaustive check or a detailed inspection  
of the contractor’s work but is rather to allow RRM to become generally familiar with the work  
in progress and to determine, in general, if the work is proceeding in accordance with the  
contract documents. RRM shall not supervise, direct, or have control over the contractor’s  
work nor have any responsibility for the construction means, methods, techniques, sequences,  
or procedures selected by the contractor, nor for the contractor’s safety precautions or  
programs in connection with the work. These rights and responsibilities are solely those of the  
contractor in accordance with the contract documents.  
  
RRM shall not be responsible for any acts or omissions of the contractor, subcontractor, any  
entity performing any portion of the work, or any agents or employees of any of them. RRM  
does not guarantee the performance of the contractor and shall not be responsible for the  
contractor’s failure to perform work in accordance with the contract documents or any  
applicable laws, codes, rules, or regulations.   
  
Deliverables:  
•   Up to four (4) construction meetings and field observations  
  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
290 of 662

--- page 291 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 21 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  14 of 17   
  
Subtask D.4: Project Close-Out  
RRM will attend two punch item walks with the contractor and the City, preliminary and final,  
and prepare a memorandum of punch list items for the contractor to address.   
  
Deliverables:  
  
•   Attend two (2) punch item walks and prepare punch list memoranda  
  
Subtask D.5: Record Drawings  
Upon completion of construction work, the design team will compile a digital set of record  
drawings in PDF format based upon the marked-up record drawings, addenda, change orders,  
and other data furnished by the contractor. These record drawings will show significant changes  
made during construction. Because these record drawings are based on unverified information  
provided by a third party, which RRM shall assume will be reliable, RRM cannot and does not  
warrant their accuracy. Note this task does not include re-drafting the contractor markups in  
AutoCAD.  
  
Deliverables:  
  
•   One (1) digital set of record drawings (PDF markups)  
SERVICES AND/OR INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED BY CLIENT  
•   Standard details, front-end specifications  
•   Submittal and routing to City departments  
•   Permitting fees  
•   Consolidation of, and reconciliation of conflicting plan review comments by various  
reviewers  
•   As-built drawings of existing buildings and facilities  
•   Environmental studies to implement mitigation measures listed in the MMRP   
•   Soil testing/analysis for horticultural purposes  
•   Construction management  
•   Relevant record drawings of the site and existing underground/overhead utilities  
•   Any necessary potholing  
LIMITATIONS OF SCOPE AND EXCLUSIONS  
Please note that the tasks to be performed by the RRM team are limited purely to those  
outlined above. The City may request additional design services. The following work could be  
included in the project but are not specifically included in this scope of services at this time.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
291 of 662

--- page 292 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 22 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
292 of 662

--- page 293 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 23 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
293 of 662

--- page 294 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 24 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
  
Central Park  Pla yg round and Memorial Grove  Final Design  
Proposed Scope of Services  
January 13, 2022  
Page  17 of 17   
  
renderings and models. Reimbursable automobile travel mileage will be billed at the current IRS  
business standard mileage rate.  
  
Adjustment to Hourly Billing Rates  
RRM reserves the right to adjust hourly rates on an annual basis.  
  
If you have any questions or require clarification of the scope of services or fees outlined above,  
please do not hesitate to call us. Thank you again for this opportunity.   
  
Sincerely,   
RRM DESIGN GROUP   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Gina Chavez    
  
  
  
Lief McKay  
Project Manager  
  
  
  
Principal  
CA License No.  6040 
    
  
  
CA License No. 4937  
  
Attachment:  Exhibit A-1, Schedule 1  
djpN:\1600\1652-01-RC19-Central-Park-MP-Improvements-Phase-1\Project-Management\Contracts\Addendums\ASA-Playground+Memorial  
Final Design\Proposal-Central Park_Playground+Memorial Final Design-01-13-22.docx   
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
294 of 662

--- page 295 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 25 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
  
EXHIBIT A-1 SCHEDULE 1 
Bill Rate Ranges 
Subject to change effective March 1st each year 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
295 of 662

--- page 296 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 26 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
ARCHITECTURE 
Architect 
$       95 - $     
155 
Assistant Manager of Architecture 
$     130 - $     
195 
Design Director 
$     145 - $     
240 
Designer I  
$       70 - $     
100 
Designer II  
$       80 - $     
125 
Designer III  
$       90 - $     
150 
Intern 
$       45 - $       
80 
Job Captain 
$       90 - $     
150 
Manager of Architecture 
$     145 - $     
255 
Principal 
$     180 - $     
350 
Project Architect 
$     110 - $     
185 
Project Designer 
$     110 - $     
180 
Project Manager 
$     110 - $     
185 
Senior Architect 
$     135 - $     
220 
Senior Designer 
$     135 - $     
210 
Senior Project Manager 
$     135 - $     
230 
ENGINEERING & SURVEYING 
Associate Engineer 
$       90 - $     
135 
Construction Inspector 
$     105 - $     
175 
Designer I  
$       55 - $       
95 
Designer II 
$       75 - $     
120 
Designer III (Structural) 
$       90 - $     
135 
Engineer I 
$       85 - $     
135 
Engineer II  
$     105 - $     
160 
Land Surveyor  
$     115 - $     
160 
Manager of Engineering Services  
$     170 - $     
280 
Manager of Surveying  
$     150 - $     
230 
Party Chief  
$       90 - $     
145 
Principal 
$     180 - $     
350 
Project Engineer  
$     125 - $     
180 
Project Manager 
$     145 - $     
230 
INTERIOR DESIGN 
Designer I  
$       55 - $       
85 
Designer II  
$       65 - $     
115 
Interior Designer I 
$       75 - $     
125 
Interior Designer II 
$       90 - $     
150 
Intern 
$       45 - $       
80 
Senior Interior Designer  
$     110 - $     
195 
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE 
Assistant Designer 
$       70 - $     
110 
Associate Designer  
$       80 - $     
125 
Designer 
$       95 - $     
135 
Intern 
$       45 - $       
80 
Landscape Architect  
$       95 - $     
145 
Manager of Landscape Architecture  
$     150 - $     
245 
Principal 
$     180 - $     
350 
Principal Landscape Architect 
$     135 - $     
235 
Senior Designer 
$     105 - $     
165 
Senior Landscape Architect  
$     110 - $     
175 
PLANNING  
Assistant Planner  
$       75 - $     
120 
Associate Planner  
$       90 - $     
155 
Intern 
$       45 - $       
80 
Manager of Planning  
$     145 - $     
260 
Principal 
$     180 - $     
350 
Principal Planner 
$     140 - $     
250 
Senior Planner 
$     115 - $     
205 
Senior Urban Designer 
$     115 - $    
205 
Urban Designer 
$       90 - $    
155 
CORPORATE SERVICES 
Accounting Specialist 
$       60 - $     
110 
Business Development Coordinator 
$       85 - $     
135 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
296 of 662

--- page 297 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 27 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
     Rev 3/1/2021 
 
Senior Associate Engineer  
$     110 - $     
185 
Senior Designer 
$     110 - $     
185 
Senior Land Surveyor  
$     130 - $     
195 
Senior Party Chief 
$     115 - $     
185 
Senior Project Engineer 
$     135 - $     
225 
Supervisor of Surveying  
$     135 - $     
205 
Survey Technician I  
$       60 - $       
90 
Survey Technician II 
$       75 - $     
115 
Survey Technician III  
$       90 - $     
155 
Surveying Crew Rates 
REGULAR 
One person w/ GPS or Robotic Workstation 
$     125 - $     
155 
Two person 
$     175 - $     
290 
Three person 
$     235 - $     
390 
PREVAILING WAGE 
One person w/ GPS or Robotic Workstation 
$     150 - $     
180 
Two person 
$     225 - $     
340 
Three person 
$     325 - $     
490 
Chief Executive Officer 
$     195 - $     
500 
Graphic Designer 
$       80 - $     
135 
Marketing Manager 
$     110 - $     
220 
Marketing Specialist  
$       90 - $     
150 
Office Coordinator  
$       70 - $     
125 
Project Accountant  
$       65 - $     
135 
Project Administrator 
$       70 - $     
125 
Receptionist 
$       40 - $       
80 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
297 of 662

--- page 298 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 28 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
 
 
EXHIBIT B 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if CONSULTANT 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall 
be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
298 of 662

--- page 299 ---
Design Professional Services 2020 
 
Page 29 of 29 
Rev 7/21 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time.  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: A4E6D1A4-B1C8-4FAF-B458-476E54F8EAAA
299 of 662

--- page 300 ---
SHOULD ANY OF THE ABOVE DESCRIBED POLICIES BE CANCELLED BEFORE
THE EXPIRATION DATE THEREOF, NOTICE WILL BE DELIVERED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLICY PROVISIONS.
INSURER(S) AFFORDING COVERAGE
INSURER F :
INSURER E :
INSURER D :
INSURER C :
INSURER B :
INSURER A :
NAIC #
NAME:
CONTACT
(A/C, No):
FAX
E-MAIL
ADDRESS:
PRODUCER
(A/C, No, Ext):
PHONE
INSURED
REVISION NUMBER:
CERTIFICATE NUMBER:
COVERAGES
IMPORTANT:  If the certificate holder is an ADDITIONAL INSURED, the policy(ies) must have ADDITIONAL INSURED provisions or be endorsed.
If SUBROGATION IS WAIVED, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, certain policies may require an endorsement.  A statement on
this certificate does not confer rights to the certificate holder in lieu of such endorsement(s).
THIS CERTIFICATE IS ISSUED AS A MATTER OF INFORMATION ONLY AND CONFERS NO RIGHTS UPON THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER. THIS
CERTIFICATE DOES NOT AFFIRMATIVELY OR NEGATIVELY AMEND, EXTEND OR ALTER THE COVERAGE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES
BELOW.  THIS CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A CONTRACT BETWEEN THE ISSUING INSURER(S), AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE OR PRODUCER, AND THE CERTIFICATE HOLDER.
OTHER:
(Per accident)
(Ea accident)
$
$
N / A
SUBR
WVD
ADDL
INSD
THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT THE POLICIES OF INSURANCE LISTED BELOW HAVE BEEN ISSUED TO THE INSURED NAMED ABOVE FOR THE POLICY PERIOD
INDICATED.  NOTWITHSTANDING ANY REQUIREMENT, TERM OR CONDITION OF ANY CONTRACT OR OTHER DOCUMENT WITH RESPECT TO WHICH THIS
CERTIFICATE MAY BE ISSUED OR MAY PERTAIN, THE INSURANCE AFFORDED BY THE POLICIES DESCRIBED HEREIN IS SUBJECT TO ALL THE TERMS,
EXCLUSIONS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH POLICIES. LIMITS SHOWN MAY HAVE BEEN REDUCED BY PAID CLAIMS.
$
$
$
$
PROPERTY DAMAGE
BODILY INJURY (Per accident)
BODILY INJURY (Per person)
COMBINED SINGLE LIMIT
AUTOS ONLY
AUTOS
AUTOS ONLY
NON-OWNED
SCHEDULED
OWNED
ANY AUTO
AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY
Y / N
WORKERS COMPENSATION
AND EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY
OFFICER/MEMBER EXCLUDED?
(Mandatory in NH)
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS below
If yes, describe under
ANY PROPRIETOR/PARTNER/EXECUTIVE
$
$
$
E.L. DISEASE - POLICY LIMIT
E.L. DISEASE - EA EMPLOYEE
E.L. EACH ACCIDENT
ER
OTH-
STATUTE
PER
LIMITS
(MM/DD/YYYY)
POLICY EXP
(MM/DD/YYYY)
POLICY EFF
POLICY NUMBER
TYPE OF INSURANCE
LTR
INSR
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS / LOCATIONS / VEHICLES  (ACORD 101, Additional Remarks Schedule, may be attached if more space is required)
EXCESS LIAB
UMBRELLA LIAB
$
EACH OCCURRENCE
$
AGGREGATE
$
OCCUR
CLAIMS-MADE
DED
RETENTION $
$
PRODUCTS - COMP/OP AGG
$
GENERAL AGGREGATE
$
PERSONAL & ADV INJURY
$
MED EXP (Any one person)
$
EACH OCCURRENCE
DAMAGE TO RENTED
$
PREMISES (Ea occurrence)
COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
CLAIMS-MADE
OCCUR
GEN'L AGGREGATE LIMIT APPLIES PER:
POLICY
PRO-
JECT
LOC
CERTIFICATE OF LIABILITY INSURANCE
DATE (MM/DD/YYYY)
CANCELLATION
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
ACORD 25 (2016/03)
© 1988-2015 ACORD CORPORATION.  All rights reserved.
CERTIFICATE HOLDER
The ACORD name and logo are registered marks of ACORD
HIRED
AUTOS ONLY
3/11/2022
AssuredPartners Design Professionals Insurance Services, LLC
3697 Mt. Diablo Blvd Suite 230
Lafayette CA 94549
Marie Swaney
DesignProCerts@AssuredPartners.com
License#: 6003745
Evanston Insurance Company
35378
RRMDESI-02
Sentinel Insurance Company
11000
RRM Design Group
805 543-1794
3765 S. Higuera St., Suite 102
San Luis Obispo CA 93401
Trumbull Insurance Company
27120
HARTFORD INSURANCE COMPANY
38288
1448308720
B
X
1,000,000
X
1,000,000
X
Contractual Liab
10,000
Included
1,000,000
2,000,000
X
Y
Y
84SBWBG6537
6/30/2021
6/30/2022
2,000,000
C
1,000,000
X
X
X
Y
Y
84UEGAC1692
6/30/2021
6/30/2022
B
X
X
5,000,000
Y
84SBWBG6537
6/30/2021
Y
6/30/2022
5,000,000
X
10,000
D
X
N
Y
84WEGAG7CTV
6/30/2021
6/30/2022
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
A
Professional Liability &
Contr. Pollution Liab Included
MKLV7PL0004779
6/30/2021
6/30/2022
Per Claim
Aggregate Limit
$2,000,000
$4,000,000
AM Best's Rating of Policies above: A/XV or greater. Umbrella policy is follow-form to its underlying Policies: General Liability/Auto Liability/Employers Liability.
RE: Project #1313049, Central Park Master Plan Update --
City of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are named as additional insureds as respects general & auto liability as required
per written contract or agreement. General Liability is Primary/Non-Contributory per policy form wording. Insurance coverage includes waiver of subrogation per
the attached endorsement(s). Professional Liability policy has a deductible which is: $75,000 per claim.
Professional Liability RETRO Date: 01/01/1974.
CANCELLATION/CHANGE: 30 day notice will be sent to the certificate holder.
30 Day Notice of Cancellation
City of San Mateo, Dept. of Parks & Recreation
330 W. 20th Ave.
San Mateo CA 94403-1388
300 of 662

--- page 301 ---
ABCDEFGHIJ
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
AMENDMENT - AGGREGATE LIMITS (PER PROJECT)
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:
BUSINESS LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM
A.
D.
4.
Section
LIABILITY AND MEDICAL EXPENSES
If the applicable “project” has been abandoned,
LIMITS OF INSURANCE is amended as follows:
delayed, or abandoned and then restarted, or if
the authorized contracting parties deviate from
1.
D.
The General Aggregate Limit under Section
plans,
blueprints,
designs,
specifications
or
LIABILITY AND MEDICAL EXPENSES LIMIT
timetables, the “project” will still be deemed to
OF INSURANCE applies separately to each of
be the same “project”.
your "projects".
5.
D.
The provisions of Section
LIABILITY AND
2.
The limits shown in the Declarations for Liability
MEDICAL EXPENSES LIMIT OF INSURANCE
and Medical Expenses, Damage To Premises
not otherwise modified by this endorsement
Rented To You and Medical Expenses continue
shall continue to apply as stipulated.
to apply.
B. Additional Definitions
3.
When coverage for liability arising out of the
G.
“products-completed
operations
hazard”
is
The following definition is added to Section
provided, any payments for damages because
LIABILITY
AND
MEDICAL
EXPENSES
of “bodily injury” or “property damage” included
DEFINITIONS:
in the “products-completed operations hazard”
1.
“Project” means “your work” at location(s) away
will reduce the Products-Completed Operations
from premises owned or rented to you.
Aggregate Limit, and not reduce the General
Aggregate Limit.
Form SS 04 33 04 05
Page 1 of 1
© 2005, The Hartford
Policy # 84SBWBG6537
301 of 662

--- page 302 ---
Û²¼±®-»³»²¬ Ò«³¾»®æ
Ûºº»½¬·ª» ¸±«® ·- ¬¸» -¿³» ¿- -¬¿¬»¼ ±² ¬¸» ×²º±®³¿¬·±² Ð¿¹» ±º ¬¸» °±´·½§ò 
Ð±´·½§ Ò«³¾»®æ
Ûºº»½¬·ª» Ü¿¬»æ
Ò¿³»¼ ×²-«®»¼ ¿²¼ ß¼¼®»--æ
Ú±®³ ÉÝ ðð ðí ïí Ð®·²¬»¼ ·² ËòÍòßò 
Ð®±½»-- Ü¿¬»æ 
ßÒÇ ÐÛÎÍÑÒ ÑÎ ÑÎÙßÒ×ÆßÌ×ÑÒ
ÚÎÑÓ ÉØÑÓ ÉÛ ÇÑË ßÎÛ ÎÛÏË×ÎÛÜ
ÞÇ ÉÎ×ÌÌÛÒ ÝÑÒÌÎßÝÌ
ÑÎ
ßÙÎÛÛÓÛÒÌ
ÌÑ ÑÞÌß×Ò ÌØ×Í
Éß×ÊÛÎ ÑÚ Î×ÙØÌÍ ÚÎÑÓ ËÍò
ÌØ×Í ÛÒÜÑÎÍÛÓÛÒÌ ÝØßÒÙÛÍ ÌØÛ ÐÑÔ×ÝÇò ÐÔÛßÍÛ ÎÛßÜ ×Ì ÝßÎÛÚËÔÔÇò
Ý±«²¬»®-·¹²»¼ ¾§
ß«¬¸±®·¦»¼ Î»°®»-»²¬¿¬·ª»
Ð±´·½§ Û¨°·®¿¬·±² Ü¿¬»æ
Éß×ÊÛÎ ÑÚ ÑËÎ Î×ÙØÌ ÌÑ ÎÛÝÑÊÛÎ
ÚÎÑÓ ÑÌØÛÎÍ ÛÒÜÑÎÍÛÓÛÒÌ
É» ¸¿ª» ¬¸» ®·¹¸¬ ¬± ®»½±ª»® ±«® °¿§³»²¬- º®±³ ¿²§±²» ´·¿¾´» º±® ¿² ·²¶«®§ ½±ª»®»¼ ¾§ ¬¸·- °±´·½§ò É» ©·´´ ²±¬
»²º±®½» ±«® ®·¹¸¬ ¿¹¿·²-¬ ¬¸» °»®-±² ±® ±®¹¿²·¦¿¬·±² ²¿³»¼ ·² ¬¸» Í½¸»¼«´»ò
Ì¸·- ¿¹®»»³»²¬ -¸¿´´ ²±¬ ±°»®¿¬» ¼·®»½¬´§ ±® ·²¼·®»½¬´§ ¬± ¾»²»º·¬ ¿²§±²» ²±¬ ²¿³»¼ ·² ¬¸» Í½¸»¼«´»ò
ÍÝØÛÜËÔÛ
84WEGAG7CTV
06/30/2021
RRM Design Group
3765 S. Higuera St., Suite 102
San Luis Obispo, CA 93401
06/30/2022
302 of 662

--- page 303 ---
COMMERCIAL AUTOMOBILE
HA 99 16 03 12
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
COMMERCIAL AUTOMOBILE BROAD FORM 
ENDORSEMENT
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:
BUSINESS AUTO COVERAGE FORM
To the extent that the provisions of this endorsement provide broader benefits to the "insured" than other
provisions of the Coverage Form, the provisions of this endorsement apply.
1.
BROAD FORM INSURED
d.
Any "employee" of yours while using a
covered "auto" you don't own, hire or 
A.
Subsidiaries
and
Newly
Acquired
or
borrow
in
your
business
or
your
Formed Organizations
personal affairs.
The
Named
Insured
shown
in
the
C. Lessors as Insureds
Declarations is amended to include:
Paragraph A.1. - WHO IS AN INSURED - of 
(1) Any legal business entity other than a
Section II - Liability Coverage is amended to
partnership or joint venture, formed as a 
add:
subsidiary
in
which
you
have
an
ownership interest of more than 50% on
e.
The lessor of a covered "auto" while the 
the effective date of the Coverage Form.  
"auto" is leased to you under a written 
However, the Named Insured does not
agreement if:
include
any
subsidiary
that
is
an
(1) The
agreement
requires
you
to
"insured" under any other automobile
provide direct primary insurance for 
policy or would be an "insured" under
the lessor and
such a policy but for its termination or
(2) The "auto" is leased without a driver.
the exhaustion of its Limit of Insurance.
Such a leased "auto" will be considered a 
(2) Any organization that is acquired or
covered "auto" you own and not a covered 
formed by you and over which you
"auto" you hire.
maintain majority ownership.
However,
the Named Insured does not include any 
D. Additional Insured if Required by Contract
newly formed or acquired organization:
(1) Paragraph A.1. - WHO IS AN INSURED
(a) That
is
a
partnership
or
joint 
- of Section II - Liability Coverage is
venture,
amended to add:
(b) That is an "insured" under any other
f.
When you have agreed, in a written
policy,
contract or written agreement, that a 
(c) That
has
exhausted
its
Limit
of
person or organization be added as
Insurance under any other policy, or
an
additional
insured
on
your
business auto policy, such person or 
(d) 180
days
or
more
after
its 
organization is an "insured", but only 
acquisition
or
formation
by
you,
to
the
extent
such
person
or
unless you have given us notice of
organization
is
liable
for
"bodily
the acquisition or formation.
injury" or "property damage" caused
Coverage does not apply
to "bodily
by the conduct of an "insured" under 
injury" or "property damage" that results
paragraphs a. or b. of Who Is An
from an "accident" that occurred before
Insured
with
regard
to
the
you formed or acquired the organization.
ownership, maintenance or use of a 
B. Employees as Insureds
covered "auto."
Paragraph A.1. - WHO IS AN INSURED - of 
SECTION II - LIABILITY COVERAGE is 
amended to add:
© 2011, The Hartford (Includes copyrighted material
Form HA 99 16 03 12
Page 1 of 5
of ISO Properties, Inc., with its permission.)
84UEGAC1692
303 of 662

--- page 304 ---
E.
Primary
and
Non-Contributory
if
The insurance afforded to any such
Required by Contract
additional insured applies only if the
"bodily
injury"
or
"property
damage"
Only with respect to insurance provided to
occurs:
an additional insured in 1.D. - Additional
(1) During the policy period, and
Insured
If
Required
by
Contract,
the 
following provisions apply:
(2) Subsequent to the execution of such
written contract, and
(3) Primary Insurance When Required By
Contract
(3) Prior to the expiration of the period 
of time that the written contract
This insurance is primary if you have
requires such insurance be provided
agreed in a written contract or written
to the additional insured.
agreement
that
this
insurance
be
primary.
If
other
insurance
is
also 
(2) How Limits Apply 
primary, we will share with all that other
If you have agreed in a written contract
insurance by the method described in
or
written
agreement
that
another 
Other Insurance 5.d.
person or organization be added as an
(4) Primary And Non-Contributory To Other
additional insured on your policy, the
Insurance When Required By Contract
most we will pay on behalf of such
additional insured is the lesser of:
If you have agreed in a written contract
or written agreement that this insurance
(a) The limits of insurance specified in
is primary and non-contributory with the 
the
written
contract
or
written
additional insured's own insurance, this 
agreement; or
insurance is primary and we will not
(b) The Limits of Insurance shown in
seek
contribution
from
that
other
the Declarations.
insurance.
Such amount shall be a part of and not
(3)
(4)
Paragraphs
and
do not apply to other 
in addition to Limits of Insurance shown
insurance to which the additional insured
in the Declarations and described in this
has been added as an additional insured.
Section.
When this insurance is excess, we will have no 
(3) Additional Insureds Other Insurance
duty to defend the insured against any "suit" if 
If we cover a claim or "suit" under this
any other insurer has a duty to defend the
Coverage Part that may also be covered
insured against that "suit". If no other insurer
by
other
insurance
available
to
an
defends, we will undertake to do so, but we will
additional
insured,
such
additional
be entitled to the insured's rights against all
insured must submit such claim or "suit"
those other insurers. 
to the other insurer for defense and
When
this
insurance
is
excess
over
other
indemnity. 
insurance, we will pay only our share of the 
However, this provision does not apply
amount of the loss, if any, that exceeds the sum
to the extent that you have agreed in a
of:
written contract or written agreement 
(1) The
total
amount
that
all
such
other
that this insurance is primary and non-
insurance would pay for the loss in the
contributory with the additional insured's
absence of this insurance; and
own insurance. 
(2) The total of all deductible and self-insured 
(4) Duties in The Event Of Accident, Claim,
amounts under all that other insurance.
Suit or Loss
We will share the remaining loss, if any, by the 
If you have agreed in a written contract
method described in Other Insurance 5.d.
or
written
agreement
that
another 
2.
AUTOS RENTED BY EMPLOYEES
person or organization be added as an 
additional insured on your policy, the
Any "auto" hired or rented by your "employee"
additional insured shall be required to
on your behalf and at your direction will be
comply with the provisions in LOSS 
considered an "auto" you hire.
CONDITIONS 2. - DUTIES
IN THE
The OTHER INSURANCE Condition is amended
EVENT OF ACCIDENT, CLAIM , SUIT
by adding the following:
OR
LOSS
–
OF
SECTION
IV
–
BUSINESS AUTO CONDITIONS, in the
same manner as the Named Insured.
© 2011, The Hartford (Includes copyrighted material
Form HA 99 16 03 12
Page 2 of 5
of ISO Properties, Inc., with its permission.)
304 of 662

--- page 305 ---
5
PHYSICAL
DAMAGE
-
ADDITIONAL
If
an
"employee’s"
personal
insurance
also
.
TEMPORARY TRANSPORTATION EXPENSE 
applies on an excess basis to a covered "auto"
COVERAGE
hired or rented by your "employee" on your
behalf and at your direction, this insurance will
Paragraph A.4.a. of SECTION III - PHYSICAL 
be
primary
to
the
"employee’s"
personal
DAMAGE COVERAGE is amended to provide a
insurance.
limit of $50 per day and a maximum limit of
3.
AMENDED FELLOW EMPLOYEE EXCLUSION
$1,000.
6.
LOAN/LEASE GAP COVERAGE
EXCLUSION 5. - FELLOW EMPLOYEE - of 
SECTION II - LIABILITY COVERAGE does not 
Under SECTION III
- PHYSICAL DAMAGE 
apply
if
you
have
workers'
compensation
COVERAGE, in the event of a total "loss" to a 
insurance
in-force
covering
all
of
your 
covered "auto", we will pay your additional legal 
"employees".
obligation for any difference between the actual
Coverage is excess over any other collectible
cash value of the "auto" at the time of the "loss"
insurance.
and the "outstanding balance" of the loan/lease.
4.
HIRED AUTO PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE
"Outstanding balance" means the amount you 
owe on the loan/lease at the time of "loss" less 
If hired "autos" are covered "autos" for Liability 
any
amounts
representing
taxes;
overdue
Coverage
and
if
Comprehensive,
Specified
payments;
penalties,
interest
or
charges
Causes of Loss, or Collision coverages are
resulting
from
overdue
payments;
additional
provided under this Coverage Form for any
mileage charges; excess wear and tear charges;
"auto" you own, then the Physical Damage 
lease termination fees; security deposits not 
Coverages provided are extended to "autos" you 
returned
by
the
lessor;
costs
for
extended
hire or borrow, subject to the following limit.
warranties, credit life Insurance, health, accident
The most we will pay for "loss" to any hired 
or disability insurance purchased with the loan or 
"auto" is:
lease; and
carry-over balances from previous
(1) $100,000;
loans or leases.
(2) The actual cash value of the damaged or
7.
AIRBAG COVERAGE
stolen property at the time of the "loss"; or
Under
Paragraph
B.
EXCLUSIONS
-
of 
(3) The
cost
of
repairing
or
replacing
the
SECTION
III
-
PHYSICAL
DAMAGE 
damaged or stolen property,
COVERAGE, the following is added:
whichever is smallest, minus a deductible. The 
The exclusion relating to mechanical breakdown
deductible will be equal to the largest deductible
does not apply to the accidental discharge of an
applicable
to
any
owned
"auto"
for
that 
airbag.
coverage. No deductible applies to "loss" caused 
8.
ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
- BROADENED
by fire or lightning.  Hired Auto Physical Damage
COVERAGE
coverage is excess over any other collectible
a. The
exceptions
to
Paragraphs
B.4
-
insurance. Subject to the above limit, deductible 
EXCLUSIONS - of SECTION III - PHYSICAL 
and excess provisions, we will provide coverage
DAMAGE COVERAGE are replaced by the 
equal to the broadest coverage applicable to any
following:
covered "auto" you own.
4.c.
4.d.
Exclusions
and
do not apply to 
We will also cover loss of use of the hired "auto"
equipment designed to be operated solely
if it results from an "accident", you are legally 
by use of the power from the "auto's"
liable and the lessor incurs an actual financial
electrical system that, at the time of "loss", 
loss,
subject
to a
maximum of $1000 per
is:
"accident".
(1)
Permanently installed in or upon 
This extension of coverage does not apply to
the covered "auto";
any "auto" you hire or borrow from any of your
"employees", partners (if you are a partnership),
(2)
Removable from a housing unit
members (if you are a limited liability company),
which is permanently installed in
or members of their households.
or upon the covered "auto"; 
(3)
An integral part of the same unit 
housing
any
electronic 
equipment
described
in
Paragraphs (1) and (2) above; or
© 2011, The Hartford (Includes copyrighted material
Form HA 99 16 03 12
Page 3 of 5
of ISO Properties, Inc., with its permission.)
305 of 662

--- page 306 ---
(4)
Necessary
for
the
normal 
If another Hartford Financial Services Group,
operation of the covered "auto" or 
Inc. company policy or coverage form that is not
the monitoring of the covered
an automobile policy or coverage form applies to
"auto's" operating system.
the same "accident", the following applies:
b.Section III – Version CA 00 01 03 10 of the 
(1) If the deductible under this Business Auto 
Business
Auto
Coverage
Form,
Physical
Coverage Form is the smaller (or smallest)
Damage
Coverage,
Limit
of
Insurance,
deductible, it will be waived;
Paragraph C.2 and Version CA 00 01 10 01 of 
(2) If the deductible under this Business Auto
the Business Auto Coverage Form, Physical
Coverage
Form
is
not
the
smaller
(or
Damage
Coverage,
Limit
of
Insurance, 
smallest) deductible, it will be reduced by
Paragraph C are each amended to add the
the amount of the smaller (or smallest)
following:
deductible.
$1,500 is the most we will pay for "loss" in 
12. AMENDED
DUTIES
IN
THE
EVENT
OF 
any
one
"accident"
to
all
electronic
ACCIDENT, CLAIM, SUIT OR LOSS
equipment (other than equipment designed 
The requirement in LOSS CONDITIONS 2.a. -
solely for the reproduction of sound, and
DUTIES IN THE EVENT OF ACCIDENT,CLAIM,
accessories used with such equipment)
SUIT OR LOSS - of SECTION IV - BUSINESS
that
reproduces,
receives
or
transmits
AUTO CONDITIONS that you must notify us of 
audio, visual or data signals which, at the
an "accident" applies only when the "accident" is
time of "loss", is:
known to:
(1) Permanently installed in or upon
(1) You, if you are an individual;
the covered "auto" in a housing,
(2) A partner, if you are a partnership;
opening or other location that is not
normally
used
by
the
"auto"
(3) A member, if you are a limited liability
manufacturer for the installation of 
company; or
such equipment; 
(4) An executive officer or insurance manager, if
(2) Removable
from
a
permanently
you are a corporation.
installed housing unit as described
13. UNINTENTIONAL
FAILURE
TO
DISCLOSE 
in Paragraph 2.a. above or is an
HAZARDS
integral part of that equipment; or
If you unintentionally fail to disclose any hazards
(3) An integral part of such equipment.
existing at the inception date of your policy, we
c.For each covered "auto", should loss be limited
will not deny coverage under this Coverage
to electronic equipment only, our obligation to
Form because of such failure.
pay for, repair, return or replace damaged or
14. HIRED AUTO - COVERAGE TERRITORY
stolen electronic equipment will be reduced by
Paragraph e. of GENERAL CONDITIONS 7. -
the
applicable
deductible
shown
in
the
POLICY PERIOD, COVERAGE TERRITORY -
Declarations, or $250, whichever deductible is
of
SECTION
IV
-
BUSINESS
AUTO 
less. 
CONDITIONS is replaced by the following:
9.
EXTRA
EXPENSE
-
BROADENED
e.
For short-term hired "autos", the coverage
COVERAGE
territory with respect to Liability Coverage is
Under Paragraph A. - COVERAGE - of SECTION
anywhere in the world provided that if the
III - PHYSICAL DAMAGE COVERAGE, we will
"insured's" responsibility to pay damages for 
pay for the expense of returning a stolen covered
"bodily
injury"
or
"property
damage"
is 
"auto" to you.
determined in a "suit," the "suit" is brought in 
10. GLASS REPAIR - WAIVER OF DEDUCTIBLE
the United States of America, the territories
and possessions of the United States of
Under Paragraph D. - DEDUCTIBLE - of SECTION
America, Puerto Rico or Canada or in a 
III
-
PHYSICAL
DAMAGE
COVERAGE,
the
settlement we agree to.
following is added:
15. WAIVER OF SUBROGATION
No deductible applies to glass damage if the
glass is repaired rather than replaced.
TRANSFER
OF
RIGHTS
OF
RECOVERY
AGAINST OTHERS TO US - of SECTION IV -
11. TWO OR MORE DEDUCTIBLES
BUSINESS AUTO CONDITIONS is amended by
Under Paragraph D. - DEDUCTIBLE - of SECTION
adding the following:
III
-
PHYSICAL
DAMAGE
COVERAGE,
the
following is added:
© 2011, The Hartford (Includes copyrighted material
Form HA 99 16 03 12
Page 4 of 5
of ISO Properties, Inc., with its permission.)
306 of 662

--- page 307 ---
We waive any right of recovery we may have
c.Regardless of the number of autos deemed a
against any person or organization with whom
total loss, the most we will pay under this
you have a written contract that requires such
Hybrid,
Electric,
or
Natural
Gas
Vehicle
waiver
because
of
payments
we
make
for
Payment Coverage
provision
for any one 
damages under this Coverage Form.
"loss" is $10,000.
16. RESULTANT MENTAL ANGUISH COVERAGE
For the purposes of the coverage provision, 
The definition of "bodily injury" in SECTION V-
a.A "non-hybrid" auto is defined as an auto that 
DEFINITIONS is replaced by the following:
uses only an internal combustion engine to
move the auto but does not include autos
"Bodily injury" means bodily injury, sickness or
powered solely by electricity or natural gas.
disease sustained by any person, including
mental anguish or death resulting from any of
b.A "hybrid" auto is defined as an auto with an 
these.
internal combustion engine and one or more 
electric motors; and that uses the internal
17. EXTENDED CANCELLATION CONDITION
combustion engine and one or more electric 
Paragraph
2.
of
the
COMMON
POLICY 
motors to move the auto, or the internal 
CONDITIONS
-
CANCELLATION
-
applies
combustion engine to charge one or more 
except as follows:
electric motors, which move the auto.
If
we
cancel
for
any
reason
other
than
19. VEHICLE WRAP COVERAGE
nonpayment of premium, we will mail or deliver
In the event of a total loss to an "auto" for which
to the first Named Insured written notice of
Comprehensive, Specified Causes of Loss, or
cancellation at least 60 days before the effective
Collision coverages are provided under this
date of cancellation.
Coverage Form, then such Physical Damage
18. HYBRID,
ELECTRIC,
OR
NATURAL
GAS 
Coverages are amended to add the following:
VEHICLE PAYMENT COVERAGE
In addition to the actual cash value of the "auto", 
In the event of a total loss to a "non-hybrid" auto 
we will pay up to $1,000 for vinyl vehicle wraps 
for which Comprehensive, Specified Causes of
which are displayed on the covered "auto" at the
Loss, or Collision coverages are provided under
time of total loss. Regardless of the number of
this
Coverage
Form,
then
such
Physical
autos deemed a total loss, the most we will pay 
Damage Coverages are amended as follows:
under this Vehicle Wrap Coverage provision for 
a.If the auto is replaced with a "hybrid" auto or
any one "loss" is $5,000. For purposes of this 
an auto powered solely by electricity or natural
coverage provision, signs
or other graphics
gas, we will pay an additional 10%, to a 
painted or magnetically affixed to the vehicle are
maximum of $2,500, of the "non-hybrid" auto’s
not considered vehicle wraps.
actual
cash
value
or
replacement
cost, 
whichever is less,
b.The auto must be replaced and a copy of a bill 
of sale or new lease agreement received by us 
within 60 calendar days of the date of "loss,"
© 2011, The Hartford (Includes copyrighted material
Form HA 99 16 03 12
Page 5 of 5
of ISO Properties, Inc., with its permission.)
307 of 662

--- page 308 ---
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY. PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
Form SS 51 14 04 17
Page 1 of 1
© 2017, The Hartford
ADDITIONAL INSURED PROVISIONS - CALIFORNIA
This endorsement modifies insurance provided under the following:
BUSINESS LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM
A.
It is agreed that paragraph (2) of subsections 6.d.
and 6.f. of Section C. - WHO IS AN INSURED is
replaced by the following:
(2) The insurance afforded by paragraph (1) above
does not apply if your acts or omissions, or the
acts or omissions of those acting on your behalf,
that are alleged to have caused the "bodily
injury", "property damage" or "personal and
advertising
injury",
involve
professional
architectural, engineering or surveying services,
including but not limited to:
(a) The
preparing,
approving,
editing
of
or
failure
to
prepare
or
approve,
shop
drawings, maps, opinions, reports, surveys,
change
orders,
field
orders,
designs,
drawings,
specifications,
warnings,
recommendations,
permit
applications
payment requests, manuals or instructions;
(b) Supervisory,
inspection,
quality
control,
architectural,
engineering
or
surveying
activities or services;
(c) Maintenance of job site safety, construction
administration,
construction
contracting,
construction
management,
computer
consulting or design software development
or programming service, or selection of a
contractor or programming service;
(d) Monitoring,
sampling,
or
testing
service
necessary to perform any of the services
included in a. b. or c. above;
(e) Supervision, hiring, employment, training or
monitoring of others who are performing
any of the services included in a., b. or c.
above.
The
insurance
afforded
to
such
additional
insured:
(a) Only applies to the extent permitted by law;
and
(b) Will not be broader than that which you are
required by the contract or agreement to
provide for such additional insured.
B.
It is agreed that the following paragraphs are added
to the end of subsections 1. and 8. of Section F -
OPTIONAL
ADDITIONAL
INSURED
COVERAGES;
and
it
is
agreed
the
following
paragraphs replace section b. of subsection 9. of
Section F. - OPTIONAL ADDITIONAL INSURED
COVERAGES. These paragraphs do not attach or
amend the language of any of the other subsections
of Section F - OPTIONAL ADDITIONAL INSURED
COVERAGES:
The insurance afforded by this subsection does not
apply if your acts or omissions, or the acts or
omissions of those acting on your behalf, that are
alleged to have caused the "bodily injury", "property
damage"
or
"personal
and
advertising
injury",
involve professional architectural, engineering or
surveying services, including but not limited to:
(a) The
preparing,
approving,
editing
of
or
failure
to
prepare
or
approve,
shop
drawings, maps, opinions, reports, surveys,
change
orders,
field
orders,
designs,
drawings,
specifications,
warnings,
recommendations,
permit
applications
payment requests, manuals or instructions;
(b) Supervisory,
inspection,
quality
control,
architectural,
engineering
or
surveying
activities or services;
(c) Maintenance of job site safety, construction
administration,
construction
contracting,
construction
management,
computer
consulting or design software development
or programming service, or selection of a
contractor or programming service;
(d) Monitoring,
sampling,
or
testing
service
necessary to perform any of the services
included in a. b. or c. above;
(e) Supervision, hiring, employment, training or
monitoring of others who are performing any
of the services included in a., b. or c. above.
The insurance afforded to such additional insured:
(a) Only applies to the extent permitted by law;
and
(b) Will not be broader than that which you are
required by the contract or agreement to
provide for such additional insured.
3ROLF\ 84SBWBG6537
308 of 662

--- page 309 ---
BUSINESS LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM
(b)
b.
Rented to, in the care, custody or
Coverage under this provision does not
control of, or over which physical
apply to:
control is being exercised for any
(1)
"Bodily injury" or "property damage"
purpose
by
you,
any
of
your
that occurred; or
"employees", "volunteer workers",
(2)
"Personal
and
advertising
injury"
any partner or member (if you are
arising out of an offense committed
a partnership or joint venture), or
before
you
acquired
or
formed
the 
any member (if you are a limited
organization.
liability company).
4.
Operator Of Mobile Equipment
b.
Real Estate Manager
With respect to "mobile equipment" registered in
Any person (other than your "employee" or
your name under any motor vehicle registration
"volunteer worker"), or any organization
law, any person is an insured while driving such
while acting as your real estate manager.
equipment along a public highway with your
c.
Temporary
Custodians
Of
Your
permission.
Any other person or organization
Property
responsible for the conduct of such person is
Any person or organization having proper
also an insured, but only with respect to liability
temporary custody of your property if you
arising out of the operation of the equipment, and
die, but only:
only if no other insurance of any kind is available
(1)
With respect to liability arising out of the
to that person or organization for this liability.
maintenance or use of that property; and
However, no person or organization is an insured
with respect to:
(2)
Until
your legal representative has
been appointed.
a.
"Bodily injury" to a co-"employee" of the
person driving the equipment; or
d.
Legal Representative If You Die
b.
"Property damage" to property owned by,
Your legal representative if you die, but
rented to, in the charge of or occupied by
only with respect to duties as such. That
you or the employer of any person who is
representative will have all your rights and
an insured under this provision.
duties under this insurance.
5.
Operator of Nonowned Watercraft
e.
Unnamed Subsidiary
With respect to watercraft you do not own that
Any subsidiary and subsidiary thereof, of
is less than 51 feet long and is not being used
yours which is a legally incorporated entity
to carry persons for a charge, any person is an
of which you own a financial interest of
insured while operating such watercraft with
more than 50% of the voting stock on the
your
permission.
Any
other
person
or
effective date of this Coverage Part.
organization responsible for the conduct of
The insurance afforded herein for any
such person is also an insured, but only with
subsidiary not shown in the Declarations
respect to liability arising out of the operation
as a named insured does not apply to
of
the
watercraft,
and
only
if
no
other
injury or damage with respect to which an
insurance of any kind is available to that
insured under this insurance is also an
person or organization for this liability.
insured under another policy or would be
However, no person or organization is an
an insured under such policy but for its
insured with respect to:
termination or upon the exhaustion of its
limits of insurance.
a.
"Bodily injury" to a co-"employee" of the
person operating the watercraft; or
3.
Newly Acquired Or Formed Organization
b.
"Property damage" to property owned by,
Any organization you newly acquire or form,
rented to, in the charge of or occupied by
other than a partnership, joint venture or
you or the employer of any person who is
limited liability company, and over which you
an insured under this provision.
maintain financial interest of more than 50% of
the voting stock, will qualify as a Named
6.
Additional
Insureds
When
Required
By
Insured if there is no other similar insurance
Written Contract, Written Agreement Or
available to that organization. However:
Permit
a.
Coverage under this provision is afforded
The person(s) or organization(s) identified in
only until the 180th day after you acquire
a.
f.
Paragraphs
through
below are additional
or form the organization or the end of the
insureds when you have agreed, in a written
policy period, whichever is earlier; and
Form SS 00 08 04 05
Page 11 of 24
3ROLF\ 84SBWBG6537
309 of 662

--- page 310 ---
BUSINESS LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM
(e)
contract, written agreement or because of a 
Any
failure
to
make
such
permit
issued
by
a
state
or
political 
inspections, adjustments, tests or
subdivision, that such person or organization 
servicing
as
the
vendor
has
be added as an additional insured on your
agreed
to
make
or
normally
policy, provided the injury or damage occurs 
undertakes to make in the usual
subsequent to the execution of the contract or 
course of business, in connection
agreement, or the issuance of the permit.
with the distribution or sale of the
products;
A person or organization is an additional 
(f)
Demonstration,
installation,
insured under this provision only for that 
servicing
or
repair
operations,
period
of
time
required
by
the
contract,
except such operations performed
agreement or permit.
at
the
vendor's
premises
in
However, no such person or organization is an 
connection with the sale of the
additional insured under this provision if such 
product;
person or organization is included as an 
(g) Products which, after distribution
additional insured by an endorsement issued 
or sale by you, have been labeled
by us and made a part of this Coverage Part,
or
relabeled
or
used
as
a
including all persons or organizations added 
container, part or ingredient of any
as
additional
insureds
under
the
specific 
other thing or substance by or for
additional insured coverage grants in Section 
the vendor; or
F. – Optional Additional Insured Coverages.
(h) "Bodily
injury"
or
"property
a.
Vendors
damage" arising out of the sole
Any person(s) or organization(s) (referred to
negligence of the vendor for its
below as vendor), but only with respect to
own acts or omissions or those of
"bodily injury" or "property damage" arising
its
employees
or
anyone
else
out of "your products" which are distributed
acting on its behalf.  However, this
or sold in the regular course of the vendor's
exclusion does not apply to:
business and only if this Coverage Part
(i)
The exceptions contained in
provides coverage for "bodily injury" or
(d)
(f)
Subparagraphs
or 
; or
"property
damage"
included
within
the
(ii)
"products-completed operations hazard".
Such inspections, adjustments,
tests or servicing as the vendor
(1)
The insurance afforded to the vendor
has agreed to make or normally
is subject to the following additional
undertakes to make in the usual
exclusions:
course
of
business,
in
This insurance does not apply to:
connection with the distribution
(a) "Bodily
injury"
or
"property
or sale of the products.
damage" for which the vendor is
(2)
This insurance does not apply to any
obligated
to
pay
damages
by
insured person or organization from
reason
of
the
assumption
of
whom you have acquired such products,
liability in a contract or agreement.
or any ingredient, part or container,
This exclusion does not apply to
entering
into,
accompanying
or
liability
for
damages
that
the
containing such products.
vendor would have in the absence
b.
Lessors Of Equipment
of the contract or agreement;
(1)
Any
person
or
organization
from
(b) Any
express
warranty 
whom you lease equipment; but only
unauthorized by you;
with respect to their liability for "bodily
(c) Any physical or chemical change
injury",
"property
damage"
or
in the product made intentionally
"personal
and
advertising
injury"
by the vendor;
caused, in whole or in part, by your
(d) Repackaging,
except
when
maintenance,
operation
or
use
of
unpacked solely for the purpose of
equipment leased to you by such
inspection, demonstration, testing,
person or organization.
or the substitution of parts under
instructions from the manufacturer,
and
then
repackaged
in
the
original container;
Page 12 of 24
Form SS 00 08 04 05
3ROLF\ 84SBWBG6537
310 of 662

--- page 311 ---
BUSINESS LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM
(2)
e.
Permits Issued By State Or Political
With respect to the insurance afforded
Subdivisions
to
these
additional
insureds,
this
insurance
does
not
apply
to
any
(1)
Any state or political subdivision, but
"occurrence" which takes place after
only
with
respect
to
operations
you cease to lease that equipment.
performed by you or on your behalf for
c.
Lessors Of Land Or Premises
which the state or political subdivision
has issued a permit.
(1)
Any
person
or
organization
from
(2)
whom you lease land or premises, but
With respect to the insurance afforded
only with respect to liability arising out
to
these
additional
insureds,
this
of the ownership, maintenance or use
insurance does not apply to:
of that part of the land or premises
(a) "Bodily injury", "property damage"
leased to you.
or
"personal
and
advertising
(2)
With respect to the insurance afforded
injury" arising out of operations
to
these
additional
insureds,
this
performed
for
the
state
or
insurance does not apply to:
municipality; or
(a)
(b)
Any
"occurrence"
which
takes
"Bodily injury" or "property damage"
place after you cease to lease that
included
within
the
"products-
land
or
be
a
tenant
in
that
completed operations hazard".
premises; or
f.
Any Other Party
(b) Structural
alterations,
new 
(1)
Any other person or organization who
construction
or
demolition 
a.
is not an insured under Paragraphs
operations performed by or on 
e
through
.
above,
but
only
with
behalf
of
such
person
or 
respect to liability for "bodily injury",
organization.
"property damage" or "personal and
d.
Architects, Engineers Or Surveyors
advertising injury" caused, in whole or
in part, by your acts or omissions or
(1)
Any architect, engineer, or surveyor, but
the acts or omissions of those acting
only with respect to liability for "bodily
on your behalf:
injury", "property damage" or "personal
(a)
and advertising injury" caused, in whole
In
the
performance
of
your
or in part, by your acts or omissions or
ongoing operations;
the acts or omissions of those acting on
(b) In connection with your premises
your behalf:
owned by or rented to you; or
(a) In connection with your premises;
(c) In connection with "your work" and
or
included
within
the
"products-
(b) In
the
performance
of
your
completed operations hazard", but
ongoing operations performed by
only if
you or on your behalf.
(i)
The written contract or written
(2)
With respect to the insurance afforded
agreement
requires
you
to
to
these
additional
insureds,
the
provide
such
coverage
to
following additional exclusion applies:
such additional insured; and
(ii)
This
insurance
does
not apply
to
This Coverage Part provides
"bodily injury", "property damage" or
coverage for "bodily injury" or
"personal
and
advertising
injury"
"property
damage"
included
arising out of the rendering of or the
within
the
"products-
failure
to
render
any
professional
completed operations hazard".
services by or for you, including:
(2)
With respect to the insurance afforded
(a) The
preparing,
approving,
or
to
these
additional
insureds,
this
failure
to
prepare
or
approve,
insurance does not apply to:
maps, shop drawings, opinions,
"Bodily injury", "property damage" or
reports,
surveys,
field
orders, 
"personal
and
advertising
injury"
change
orders,
designs
or 
arising out of the rendering of, or the
drawings and specifications; or
failure
to
render,
any
professional
(b) Supervisory,
inspection, 
architectural, engineering or surveying
architectural
or
engineering 
services, including:
activities.
Form SS 00 08 04 05
Page 13 of 24
3ROLF\ 84SBWBG6537
311 of 662

--- page 312 ---
BUSINESS LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM
(a) The
preparing,
approving,
or
This General Aggregate limit does not 
failure
to
prepare
or
approve,
apply to "property damage" to premises 
maps, shop drawings, opinions,
while
rented
to
you
or
temporarily 
reports,
surveys,
field
orders, 
occupied by you with permission of the 
change
orders,
designs
or 
owner, arising out of fire, lightning or
drawings and specifications; or
explosion.
(b)
3.
Each Occurrence Limit
Supervisory,
inspection, 
architectural
or
engineering 
2.a.
2.b
Subject
to
or
above,
whichever
activities.
applies, the most we will pay for the sum of all
The limits of insurance that apply to additional 
damages
because
of
all
"bodily
injury",
D.
insureds are described in Section
– Limits
"property
damage"
and
medical
expenses
Of Insurance.
arising out of any one "occurrence" is the
Liability and Medical Expenses Limit shown in
How
this
insurance
applies
when
other 
the Declarations.
insurance is available to an additional insured
is described in the Other Insurance Condition 
The most we will pay for all medical expenses
E.
in Section
– Liability And Medical Expenses
because of "bodily injury" sustained by any
General Conditions.
one person is the Medical Expenses Limit
shown in the Declarations.
No person or organization is an insured with 
4.
Personal And Advertising Injury Limit
respect to the conduct of any current or past 
partnership,
joint
venture
or
limited
liability 
2.b.
Subject to
above, the most we will pay for
company that is not shown as a Named Insured in 
the
sum
of
all
damages
because
of
all
the Declarations.
"personal and advertising injury" sustained by
any one person or organization is the Personal
D. LIABILITY AND MEDICAL EXPENSES
and Advertising Injury Limit shown in the
LIMITS OF INSURANCE
Declarations.
1.
The Most We Will Pay
5.
Damage To Premises Rented To You Limit
The
Limits
of
Insurance
shown
in
the
The Damage To Premises Rented To You
Declarations and the rules below fix the most
Limit is the most we will pay under Business
we will pay regardless of the number of:
Liability Coverage for damages because of
a.
Insureds;
"property damage" to any one premises, while
b.
Claims made or "suits" brought; or
rented to you, or in the case of damage by fire,
lightning or explosion, while rented to you or
c.
Persons or organizations making claims or
temporarily occupied by you with permission of
bringing "suits".
the owner.
2.
Aggregate Limits
In the case of damage by fire, lightning or
The most we will pay for:
explosion, the Damage to Premises Rented To
a.
Damages because of "bodily injury" and
You Limit applies to all damage proximately
"property
damage"
included
in
the
caused by the same event, whether such
"products-completed operations hazard" is
damage results from fire, lightning or explosion
the
Products-Completed
Operations 
or any combination of these.
Aggregate
Limit
shown
in
the 
6.
How Limits Apply To Additional Insureds
Declarations.
The most we will pay on behalf of a person or
b.
Damages because of all other "bodily
organization
who
is
an additional
insured
injury", "property damage" or "personal
under this Coverage Part is the lesser of:
and advertising injury", including medical
a.
The limits of insurance specified in a
expenses, is the General Aggregate Limit
written
contract,
written
agreement
or
shown in the Declarations.
permit
issued
by
a
state
or
political
This
General
Aggregate
Limit
applies
subdivision; or
separately to each of your "locations"
b.
The Limits of Insurance shown in the
owned by or rented to you.
Declarations.
"Location" means premises involving the
Such amount shall be a part of and not in 
same
or connecting
lots, or premises
addition to the Limits of Insurance shown in 
whose connection is interrupted only by a
the Declarations and described in this Section.
street,
roadway
or
right-of-way
of
a
railroad.
Page 14 of 24
Form SS 00 08 04 05
3ROLF\ 84SBWBG6537
312 of 662

--- page 313 ---
BUSINESS LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM
(1)
If more than one limit of insurance under this 
Immediately send us copies of any
policy and any endorsements attached thereto 
demands,
notices,
summonses
or
applies to any claim or "suit", the most we will pay 
legal papers received in connection
under this policy and the endorsements is the 
with the claim or "suit";
single highest limit of liability of all coverages 
(2)
Authorize us to obtain records and
applicable to such claim or "suit".
However, this 
other information;
paragraph does not apply to the Medical Expenses 
(3)
Cooperate with us in the investigation, 
3.
limit set forth in Paragraph 
above.
settlement of the claim or defense 
The Limits of Insurance of this Coverage Part apply
against the "suit"; and
separately to each consecutive annual period and to
(4)
Assist us, upon our request, in the
any remaining period of less than 12 months, starting
enforcement of any right against any
with the beginning of the policy period shown in the
person or organization that may be
Declarations, unless the policy period is extended
liable to the insured because of injury
after issuance for an additional period of less than 12
or damage to which this insurance
months.
In that case, the additional period will be
may also apply.
deemed part of the last preceding period for purposes
d.
Obligations At The Insured's Own Cost
of determining the Limits of Insurance.
No insured will, except at that insured's own
E. LIABILITY AND MEDICAL EXPENSES
cost, voluntarily make a payment, assume
GENERAL CONDITIONS
any obligation, or incur any expense, other
than for first aid, without our consent.
1.
Bankruptcy
e.
Additional Insured's Other Insurance
Bankruptcy or insolvency of the insured or of
the insured's estate will not relieve us of our
If we cover a claim or "suit" under this
obligations under this Coverage Part.
Coverage Part that may also be covered
by
other
insurance
available
to
an
2.
Duties
In
The
Event
Of
Occurrence,
additional insured, such additional insured
Offense, Claim Or Suit
must submit such claim or "suit" to the
a.
Notice Of Occurrence Or Offense
other insurer for defense and indemnity.
You or any additional insured must see to
However, this provision does not apply to
it
that
we
are
notified
as
soon
as
the extent that you have agreed in a
practicable
of
an
"occurrence"
or
an
written
contract,
written
agreement
or
offense which may result in a claim.
To
permit that this insurance is primary and
the extent possible, notice should include:
non-contributory
with
the
additional
(1)
How, when and where the "occurrence"
insured's own insurance.
or offense took place;
f.
Knowledge Of An Occurrence, Offense,
(2)
The names and addresses of any
Claim Or Suit
injured persons and witnesses; and
a.
b.
Paragraphs
and
apply to you or to
(3)
The nature and location of any injury
any additional insured only when such
or
damage
arising
out
of
the
"occurrence", offense, claim or "suit" is
"occurrence" or offense.
known to:
b.
Notice Of Claim
(1)
You or any additional insured that is
an individual;
If a claim is made or "suit" is brought
against any insured, you or any additional
(2)
Any partner, if you or an additional
insured must:
insured is a partnership;
(1)
Immediately record the specifics of the
(3)
Any manager, if you or an additional
claim or "suit" and the date received;
insured is a limited liability company;
and
(4)
Any "executive officer" or insurance
(2)
Notify us as soon as practicable.
manager,
if
you
or
an
additional
insured is a corporation;
You or any additional insured must see to 
it that we receive a written notice of the 
(5)
Any trustee, if you or an additional
claim or "suit" as soon as practicable.
insured is a trust; or
c.
Assistance And Cooperation Of The
(6)
Any elected or appointed official, if you
Insured
or an additional insured is a political
subdivision or public entity.
You and any other involved insured must:
Form SS 00 08 04 05
Page 15 of 24
3ROLF\ 84SBWBG6537
313 of 662

--- page 314 ---
BUSINESS LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM
f.
(3)
This Paragraph
applies separately to 
We have issued this policy in reliance
you and any additional insured.
upon your representations.
3.
Financial Responsibility Laws
b.
Unintentional
Failure
To
Disclose
Hazards
a.
When this policy is certified as proof of
financial responsibility for the future under
If unintentionally you should fail to disclose
the
provisions
of
any
motor
vehicle
all hazards relating to the conduct of your
financial responsibility law, the insurance
business at the inception date of this
provided by the policy for "bodily injury"
Coverage Part, we shall not deny any
liability and "property damage" liability will
coverage
under
this
Coverage
Part
comply with the provisions of the law to
because of such failure.
the extent of the coverage and limits of
7.
Other Insurance
insurance required by that law.
If
other valid and collectible insurance is
b.
With respect to "mobile equipment" to
available for a loss we cover under this
which
this
insurance
applies,
we
will
Coverage Part, our obligations are limited as
provide any liability, uninsured motorists,
follows:
underinsured motorists, no-fault or other
a.
Primary Insurance
coverage required by any motor vehicle
b.
law. We will provide the required limits for
This insurance is primary except when
those coverages.
below applies.
If other insurance is also
primary, we will share with all that other
4.
Legal Action Against Us
c.
insurance by the method described in
No person or organization has a right under
below.
this Coverage Form:
b.
Excess Insurance
a.
To join us as a party or otherwise bring us
This insurance is excess over any of the
into a "suit" asking for damages from an
other insurance, whether primary, excess,
insured; or
contingent or on any other basis:
b.
To sue us on this Coverage Form unless
(1)
Your Work
all of its terms have been fully complied
with.
That
is
Fire,
Extended
Coverage,
Builder's
Risk,
Installation
Risk
or
A person or organization may sue us to recover
similar coverage for "your work";
on an agreed settlement or on a final judgment
against an insured; but we will not be liable for
(2)
Premises Rented To You
damages that are not payable under the terms of
That is fire, lightning or explosion
this insurance or that are in excess of the
insurance for premises rented to you
applicable
limit
of
insurance.
An
agreed
or temporarily occupied by you with
settlement means a settlement and release of
permission of the owner;
liability signed by us, the insured and the
(3)
Tenant Liability
claimant or the claimant's legal representative.
That is insurance purchased by you to
5.
Separation Of Insureds
cover your liability as a tenant for
Except with respect to the Limits of Insurance,
"property damage" to premises rented
and any rights or duties specifically assigned
to you or temporarily occupied by you
in this policy to the first Named Insured, this
with permission of the owner;
insurance applies:
(4)
Aircraft, Auto Or Watercraft
a.
As if each Named Insured were the only
If the loss arises out of the maintenance
Named Insured; and
or use of aircraft, "autos" or watercraft to
b.
Separately to each insured against whom
g.
the extent not subject to Exclusion
of
a claim is made or "suit" is brought.
A.
Section
– Coverages.
6.
Representations
(5)
Property
Damage
To
Borrowed
a.
When You Accept This Policy
Equipment Or Use Of Elevators
By accepting this policy, you agree:
If the loss arises out of "property
damage" to borrowed equipment or
(1)
The statements in the Declarations
the use of elevators to the extent not
are accurate and complete;
k.
A.
subject to Exclusion
of Section
–
(2)
Those statements are based upon
Coverages.
representations you made to us; and
Page 16 of 24
Form SS 00 08 04 05
3ROLF\ 84SBWBG6537
314 of 662

--- page 315 ---
BUSINESS LIABILITY COVERAGE FORM
(6)
When
You
Are
Added
As
An
When this insurance is excess over other 
Additional
Insured
To
Other
insurance, we will pay only our share of 
Insurance
the
amount
of
the
loss,
if
any,
that 
exceeds the sum of:
That is other insurance available to
(1)
you
covering
liability
for
damages
The total amount that all such other
arising
out
of
the
premises
or
insurance would pay for the loss in the
operations, or products and completed
absence of this insurance; and
operations, for which you have been
(2)
The total of all deductible and self-
added as an additional insured by that
insured amounts under all that other
insurance; or
insurance.
(7)
When
You
Add
Others
As
An
We will share the remaining loss, if any, with
Additional
Insured
To
This
any other insurance that is not described in
Insurance
this Excess Insurance provision and was not
That is other insurance available to an
bought specifically to apply in excess of the
additional insured.
Limits
of
Insurance
shown
in
the
Declarations of this Coverage Part.
However,
the
following
provisions
c.
Method Of Sharing
apply to other insurance available to
any person or organization who is an
If
all
the
other
insurance
permits
additional insured under this Coverage
contribution by equal shares, we will follow
Part:
this method also.
Under this approach,
(a) Primary
Insurance
When
each insurer contributes equal amounts
Required By Contract
until it has paid its applicable limit of
insurance or none of the loss remains,
This insurance is primary if you
whichever comes first.
have agreed in a written contract,
written agreement or permit that
If any of the other insurance does not permit
this insurance be primary. If other
contribution
by
equal
shares,
we
will
insurance is also primary, we will
contribute by limits. Under this method, each
share with all that other insurance
insurer’s share is based on the ratio of its
c.
by the method described in
applicable limit of insurance to the total
below.
applicable limits of insurance of all insurers.
(b) Primary And Non-Contributory
8.
Transfer Of Rights Of Recovery Against
To
Other
Insurance
When
Others To Us
Required By Contract
a.
Transfer Of Rights Of Recovery
If you have agreed in a written
If the insured has rights to recover all or
contract,
written
agreement
or
part
of
any
payment,
including
permit
that
this
insurance
is
Supplementary Payments, we have made
primary and non-contributory with
under this Coverage Part, those rights are
the
additional
insured's
own
transferred to us.
The insured must do
insurance,
this
insurance
is
nothing after loss to impair them.
At our
primary
and
we
will
not
seek
request, the insured will bring "suit" or
contribution
from
that
other
transfer those rights to us and help us
insurance.
enforce them.
This condition does not
(a)
(b)
Paragraphs 
 and
 do not apply to 
apply to Medical Expenses Coverage.
other insurance to which the additional
b.
Waiver Of Rights Of Recovery (Waiver
insured
has
been
added
as
an 
Of Subrogation)
additional insured.
If the insured has waived any rights of
When this insurance is excess, we will 
recovery
against
any
person
or
have no duty under this Coverage Part to 
organization for all or part of any payment,
defend the insured against any "suit" if any 
including Supplementary Payments, we
other insurer has a duty to defend the 
have made under this Coverage Part, we
insured against that "suit".
If no other
also waive that right, provided the insured
insurer defends, we will undertake to do
waived their rights of recovery against
so, but we will be entitled to the insured's 
such person or organization in a contract,
rights against all those other insurers.
agreement or permit that was executed
prior to the injury or damage.
Form SS 00 08 04 05
Page 17 of 24
3ROLF\ 84SBWBG6537
315 of 662

--- page 316 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5847
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Information Technology Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Enterprise Resource Planning Software Licensing, Maintenance and Support Services – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a contract with Tyler Technologies, Inc. 
for Eden financial, human resources, and payroll annual maintenance and support in the amount of $109,355.46, and 
authorize Information Technology Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City annually renews maintenance and support for the Eden enterprise resource planning (ERP) software. Renewal 
ensures the City uses a fully-licensed financial and human resources information system and payroll processing system, 
along with vendor-supplied technical and end-user support. Contract renewal requires Council attention due to annual 
rate increases.
In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b), calling for bids would not have been feasible for this 
agreement.  Eden has been utilized by the City for many years as its financial support software, and it has been fully 
integrated into various City systems.  Continued use of Eden software is required to support mission critical City systems, 
and Tyler Technologies provides the best price point for acquiring support of the Eden software.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Annual maintenance and support for Eden is included in the annual operating budget for the Information Technology 
Department.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This software maintenance renewal contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – Agreement 
316 of 662

--- page 317 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Jonathan Strange, Systems Analyst II
jstrange@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7119
317 of 662

--- page 318 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
APPROVING ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR AN AGREEMENT WITH TYLER TECHNOLOGIES, INC. 
FOR A ONE-YEAR MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT FOR ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING SOFTWARE
($109,355.46)
WHEREAS, the city requires the use of Tyler Technologies, Inc.’s Eden enterprise resource planning 
software for financial, payroll, and human resources software essential to City operations; 
WHEREAS, the City will benefit from software maintenance and support through annual renewal of the 
maintenance agreement; 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b) agreements may be awarded without 
competitive bids if calling for bids would be impracticable, unavailing or impossible and the City Council sets 
forth findings designating the reasons; and
WHEREAS, City staff recommends approval of the agreement with Tyler Technologies, Inc. for one-year 
maintenance for enterprise resource planning software.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and
RESOLVES that:
1. This software maintenance renewal contract is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the 
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
2. In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.050(b), calling for bids would be 
impracticable, unavailing, or impossible because:
a.
Eden enterprise resource planning software has been utilized by the City for many years as 
its support software.
b.
Eden software has been fully integrated into various City systems.
c.
Tyler Technologies, Inc. assisted the City in Eden software implementation, provided 
continued software maintenance support, and has foundational knowledge of the City’s 
systems.
d.
Continued use of Eden software is required to support mission critical City systems.
e.
A maintenance agreement with Tyler Technologies, Inc. provides the best price point for 
acquiring support of the Eden software
3. The agreement with Tyler Technologies, Inc., for a one-year maintenance agreement for
enterprise resource planning software, in the amount of $109,355.46 is approved.
4. The Director of the Department of Information Technology is authorized to execute the agreement on 
behalf of the City.
318 of 662

--- page 319 ---
1
LICENSE AND SERVICES AGREEMENT
This License and Services Agreement is made between Tyler Technologies, Inc. and Client.
WHEREAS, Client and Tyler are parties to a License and Services Agreement dated January 1, 2021, by 
which Client licensed certain software products from Tyler and purchased certain services from Tyler 
and Tyler provided said license and services in accordance therewith (the “Initial Agreement”);
WHEREAS, Client and Tyler desire to replace the Initial Agreement with updated terms to reflect the 
nature of their ongoing relationship;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and promises set forth 
in this Agreement, Tyler and Client agree as follows:
SECTION A – DEFINITIONS

“Agreement” means this License and Services Agreement.

“Business Travel Policy” means our business travel policy.  A copy of our current Business Travel 
Policy is attached as Schedule 1 to Exhibit B.

“Client” means the City of San Mateo and its employees, contractors, and agents.

“Defect” means a failure of the Tyler Software to substantially conform to the functional 
descriptions set forth in our written proposal to you, or their functional equivalent.  Future 
functionality may be updated, modified, or otherwise enhanced through our maintenance and 
support services, and the governing functional descriptions for such future functionality will be 
set forth in our then-current Documentation.

“Developer” means a third party who owns the intellectual property rights to Third Party 
Software.

“Documentation” means any online or written documentation related to the use or 
functionality of the Tyler Software that we provide or otherwise make available to you, including 
instructions, user guides, manuals and other training or self-help documentation. 

“Effective Date” means January 1, 2022.

“Force Majeure” means an event beyond the reasonable control of you or us, including, without 
limitation, governmental action, war, riot or civil commotion, fire, natural disaster, or any other 
cause that could not with reasonable diligence be foreseen or prevented by you or us.

“Initial Agreement” means our prior agreement by which we licensed Tyler Software to you and 
performed certain services related thereto.

“Investment Summary” means the agreed upon cost proposal for the software, products, and 
services attached as Exhibit A.

“Invoicing and Payment Policy” means the invoicing and payment policy.  A copy of our current 
Invoicing and Payment Policy is attached as Exhibit B.

“Maintenance and Support Agreement” means the terms and conditions governing the 
provision of maintenance and support services to all of our customers.  A copy of our current 
319 of 662

--- page 320 ---
2
Maintenance and Support Agreement is attached as Exhibit C.

“Support Call Process” means the support call process applicable to all of our customers who 
have licensed the Tyler Software.  A copy of our current Support Call Process is attached as 
Schedule 1 to Exhibit C.

“Third Party Hardware” means the third party hardware, if any, identified in the Investment 
Summary.

“Third Party Products” means the Third Party Software and Third Party Hardware.

“Third Party Services” means the third party services, if any, identified in the Investment 
Summary. 

“Third Party Software” means the third party software, if any, identified in the Investment 
Summary. 

“Third Party Terms” means, if any, the end user license agreement(s) or similar terms for the 
Third Party Software, as applicable.

“Tyler” means Tyler Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation.

“Tyler Software” means our proprietary software, including any integrations, custom 
modifications, and/or other related interfaces identified in the Investment Summary and 
licensed by us to you through this Agreement.

“we”, “us”, “our” and similar terms mean Tyler.

“you” and similar terms mean Client.
SECTION B – SOFTWARE LICENSE
1.
Termination of the Initial Agreement.
1.1 As of the Effective Date, the Initial Agreement is hereby terminated by mutual agreement of the 
parties.  The parties’ relationship shall be governed solely by the terms of this Agreement.
2.
License Grant and Restrictions.
2.1 We grant to you a license to use the Tyler Software for your internal business purposes only, in 
the scope of the internal business purposes disclosed to us as of the Effective Date.  You may 
make copies of the Tyler Software for backup and testing purposes, so long as such copies are 
not used in production and the testing is for internal use only.  Your rights to use the Tyler 
Software are perpetual but may be revoked if you do not comply with the terms of this 
Agreement.
2.2 The Documentation is licensed to you and may be used and copied by your employees for 
internal, non-commercial reference purposes only.
2.3 You may not: (a) transfer or assign the Tyler Software to a third party; (b) reverse engineer, 
decompile, or disassemble the Tyler Software; (c) rent, lease, lend, or provide commercial 
hosting services with the Tyler Software; or (d) publish or otherwise disclose the Tyler Software 
or Documentation to third parties.
2.4 The license terms in this Agreement apply to updates and enhancements we may provide to you 
or make available to you through your Maintenance and Support Agreement.
320 of 662

--- page 321 ---
3
2.5 The right to transfer the Tyler Software to a replacement hardware system is included in your 
license.  You will give us advance written notice of any such transfer and will pay us for any 
required or requested technical assistance from us associated with such transfer.
2.6 Where applicable with respect to our applications that take or process card payment data, we 
are responsible for the security of cardholder data that we possess, including functions relating 
to storing, processing, and transmitting of the cardholder data and affirm that, as of the 
Effective Date, we comply with applicable requirements to be considered PCI DSS compliant and 
have performed the necessary steps to validate compliance with the PCI DSS. We agree to 
supply the current status of our PCI DSS compliance program in the form of an official 
Attestation of Compliance, which can be found at https://www.tylertech.com/about-
us/compliance, and in the event of any change in our status, will comply with applicable notice 
requirements.
2.7 We reserve all rights not expressly granted to you in this Agreement.  The Tyler Software and 
Documentation are protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws and treaties.  
We own the title, copyright, and other intellectual property rights in the Tyler Software and the 
Documentation.  The Tyler Software is licensed, not sold.
3.
License Fees.  There shall be no further license fees owed by you for the Tyler Software you licensed 
purchased under the Initial Agreement.  Should you license additional Tyler Software through this 
Agreement or by subsequent amendment thereto, you agree to pay us the license fees in the 
amounts set forth in the applicable Investment Summary.  Those amounts are payable in 
accordance with our Invoicing and Payment Policy.
4.
Escrow.  We maintain an escrow agreement with a third party under which we place the source 
code for each major release of the Tyler Software.  You may be added as a beneficiary to the escrow 
agreement by completing a standard beneficiary enrollment form and paying the applicable annual 
beneficiary fee.  You will be responsible for maintaining your ongoing status as a beneficiary, 
including payment of the then-current annual beneficiary fees.  Release of source code for the Tyler 
Software is strictly governed by the terms of the escrow agreement.  
5.
Limited Warranty.  We warrant that the Tyler Software will be without Defect(s) as long as you have 
a Maintenance and Support Agreement in effect.  If the Tyler Software does not perform as 
warranted, we will use all reasonable efforts, consistent with industry standards, to cure the Defect 
as set forth in the Maintenance and Support Agreement.  
SECTION C – PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
1.
Services.  We will provide you the various implementation-related services itemized in the 
Investment Summary, if any.
2.
Professional Services Fees.  You agree to pay us the professional services fees in the amounts set 
forth in the Investment Summary.  Those amounts are payable in accordance with our Invoicing and 
Payment Policy.  You acknowledge that the fees stated in the Investment Summary are good-faith 
estimates of the amount of time and materials required for your implementation.  We will bill you 
the actual fees incurred based on the in-scope services provided to you.  Any discrepancies in the 
total values set forth in the Investment Summary will be resolved by multiplying the applicable 
321 of 662

--- page 322 ---
4
hourly rate by the quoted hours.
3.
Additional Services.  The Investment Summary contains the scope of services and related costs 
(including programming and/or interface estimates) required for the project based on our 
understanding of the specifications you supplied.  If additional work is required, or if you use or 
request additional services, we will provide you with an addendum or change order, as applicable, 
outlining the costs for the additional work.  The price quotes in the addendum or change order will 
be valid for thirty (30) days from the date of the quote.
4.
Cancellation. We make all reasonable efforts to schedule our personnel for travel, including 
arranging travel reservations, at least two (2) weeks in advance of commitments.  Therefore, if you 
cancel services less than two (2) weeks in advance (other than for Force Majeure or breach by us), 
you will be liable for all (a) non-refundable expenses incurred by us on your behalf, and (b) daily fees 
associated with cancelled professional services if we are unable to reassign our personnel.  We will 
make all reasonable efforts to reassign personnel in the event you cancel within two (2) weeks of 
scheduled commitments.
5.
Services Warranty.  We will perform the services in a professional, workmanlike manner, consistent 
with industry standards.  In the event we provide services that do not conform to this warranty, we 
will re-perform such services at no additional cost to you.
6.
Site Access and Requirements.  At no cost to us, you agree to provide us with full and free access to 
your personnel, facilities, and equipment as may be reasonably necessary for us to provide 
implementation services, subject to any reasonable security protocols or other written policies 
provided to us as of the Effective Date, and thereafter as mutually agreed to by you and us.  You 
further agree to provide a reasonably suitable environment, location, and space for the installation 
of the Tyler Software and any Third Party Products, including, without limitation, sufficient electrical 
circuits, cables, and other reasonably necessary items required for the installation and operation of 
the Tyler Software and any Third Party Products.  
7.
Client Assistance.  You acknowledge that the implementation of the Tyler Software is a cooperative 
process requiring the time and resources of your personnel.  You agree to use all reasonable efforts 
to cooperate with and assist us as may be reasonably required to meet the agreed upon project 
deadlines and other milestones for implementation.  This cooperation includes at least working with 
us to schedule the implementation-related services outlined in this Agreement.  We will not be 
liable for failure to meet any deadlines and milestones when such failure is due to Force Majeure or 
to the failure by your personnel to provide such cooperation and assistance (either through action 
or omission).
8.
Background Checks.  For at least the past twelve (12) years, all of our employees have undergone 
criminal background checks prior to hire. All employees sign our confidentiality agreement and 
security policies.
SECTION D – MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT
If you have purchased ongoing maintenance and support services, and continue to make timely 
payments for them according to our Invoicing and Payment Policy, we will provide you with 
maintenance and support services for the Tyler Software under the terms of our standard 
322 of 662

--- page 323 ---
5
Maintenance and Support Agreement.  
If you have opted not to purchase ongoing maintenance and support services for the Tyler Software, 
the Maintenance and Support Agreement does not apply to you.  Instead, you will only receive 
ongoing maintenance and support on the Tyler Software on a time and materials basis.  In addition, 
you will:
(i)
receive the lowest priority under our Support Call Process;
(ii)
be required to purchase new releases of the Tyler Software, including fixes, 
enhancements and patches; 
(iii)
be charged our then-current rates for support services, or such other rates that we may 
consider necessary to account for your lack of ongoing training on the Tyler Software;
(iv)
be charged for a minimum of two (2) hours of support services for every support call; 
and
(v)
not be granted access to the support website for the Tyler Software or the Tyler 
Community Forum.
SECTION E – THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS
To the extent there are any Third Party Products set forth in the Investment Summary, the following 
terms and conditions will apply:
1.
Third Party Hardware.  We will sell, deliver, and install onsite the Third Party Hardware, if you have 
purchased any, for the price set forth in the Investment Summary.  Those amounts are payable in 
accordance with our Invoicing and Payment Policy.
2.
Third Party Software.  Upon payment in full of the Third Party Software license fees, you will receive 
a non-transferable license to use the Third Party Software and related documentation for your 
internal business purposes only.  Your license rights to the Third Party Software will be governed by 
the Third Party Terms.  
2.1 We will install onsite the Third Party Software.  The installation cost is included in the 
installation fee in the Investment Summary.  
2.2 If the Developer charges a fee for future updates, releases, or other enhancements to the Third 
Party Software, you will be required to pay such additional future fee. 
2.3 The right to transfer the Third Party Software to a replacement hardware system is governed by 
the Developer.  You will give us advance written notice of any such transfer and will pay us for 
any required or requested technical assistance from us associated with such transfer.
3.
Third Party Products Warranties.
3.1 We are authorized by each Developer to grant or transfer the licenses to the Third Party 
Software.
3.2 The Third Party Hardware will be new and unused, and upon payment in full, you will receive 
free and clear title to the Third Party Hardware.
323 of 662

--- page 324 ---
6
3.3 You acknowledge that we are not the manufacturer of the Third Party Products.  We do not 
warrant or guarantee the performance of the Third Party Products.  However, we grant and pass 
through to you any warranty that we may receive from the Developer or supplier of the Third 
Party Products. 
4.
Third Party Services.  If you have purchased Third Party Services, those services will be provided 
independent of Tyler by such third-party at the rates set forth in the Investment Summary and in 
accordance with our Invoicing and Payment Policy.
5.
Maintenance.  If you have a Maintenance and Support Agreement in effect, you may report defects 
and other issues related to the Third Party Software directly to us, and we will (a) directly address 
the defect or issue, to the extent it relates to our interface with the Third Party Software; and/or (b) 
facilitate resolution with the Developer, unless that Developer requires that you have a separate, 
direct maintenance agreement in effect with that Developer.  In all events, if you do not have a 
Maintenance and Support Agreement in effect with us, you will be responsible for resolving defects 
and other issues related to the Third Party Software directly with the Developer.
SECTION F – INVOICING AND PAYMENT; INVOICE DISPUTES
1.
Invoicing and Payment.  We will invoice you for all fees set forth in the Investment Summary per our 
Invoicing and Payment Policy, subject to Section F(2).  
2.
Invoice Disputes.  If you believe any delivered software or service does not conform to the 
warranties in this Agreement, you will provide us with written notice within thirty (30) days of your 
receipt of the applicable invoice.  The written notice must contain reasonable detail of the issues 
you contend are in dispute so that we can confirm the issue and respond to your notice with either a 
justification of the invoice, an adjustment to the invoice, or a proposal addressing the issues 
presented in your notice.  We will work with you as may be necessary to develop an action plan that 
outlines reasonable steps to be taken by each of us to resolve any issues presented in your notice.  
You may withhold payment of the amount(s) actually in dispute, and only those amounts, until we 
complete the action items outlined in the plan.  If we are unable to complete the action items 
outlined in the action plan because of your failure to complete the items agreed to be done by you, 
then you will remit full payment of the invoice.  We reserve the right to suspend delivery of all 
services, including maintenance and support services, if you fail to pay an invoice not disputed as 
described above within fifteen (15) days of notice of our intent to do so.
SECTION G – TERMINATION
1.
Termination.  This Agreement may be terminated as set forth below.  In the event of termination, 
you will pay us for all undisputed fees and expenses related to the software, products, and/or 
services you have received, or we have incurred or delivered, prior to the effective date of 
termination.  Disputed fees and expenses in all terminations other than your termination for cause 
must have been submitted as invoice disputes in accordance with Section F(2).
1.1 For Cause.  If you believe we have materially breached this Agreement, you will invoke the 
Dispute Resolution clause set forth in Section I(23).  You may terminate this Agreement for 
cause in the event we do not cure, or create a mutually agreeable action plan to address, a 
324 of 662

--- page 325 ---
7
material breach of this Agreement within the thirty (30) day window set forth in Section I(3).  
1.2 Force Majeure.  Either party has the right to terminate this Agreement if a Force Majeure event 
suspends performance of this Agreement for a period of forty-five (45) days or more.
1.3 Lack of Appropriations.  If you should not appropriate or otherwise receive funds sufficient to 
purchase, lease, operate, or maintain the software or services set forth in this Agreement, you 
may unilaterally terminate this Agreement upon thirty (30) days written notice to us.  You will 
not be entitled to a refund or offset of previously paid license and other fees.  You agree not to 
use termination for lack of appropriations as a substitute for termination for convenience. 
SECTION H – INDEMNIFICATION, LIMITATION OF LIABILITY AND INSURANCE
1.
Intellectual Property Infringement Indemnification.  
1.1 We will defend you against any third party claim(s) that the Tyler Software or Documentation 
infringes that third party’s patent, copyright, or trademark, or misappropriates its trade secrets, 
and will pay the amount of any resulting adverse final judgment (or settlement to which we 
consent).  You must notify us promptly in writing of the claim and give us sole control over its 
defense or settlement.  You agree to provide us with reasonable assistance, cooperation, and 
information in defending the claim at our expense.
1.2 Our obligations under this Section H(1) will not apply to the extent the claim or adverse final 
judgment is based on your: (a) use of a previous version of the Tyler Software and the claim 
would have been avoided had you installed and used the current version of the Tyler Software, 
and we provided notice of that requirement to you; (b) combining the Tyler Software with any 
product or device not provided, contemplated, or approved by us; (c) altering or modifying the 
Tyler Software, including any modification by third parties at your direction or otherwise 
permitted by you; (d) use of the Tyler Software in contradiction of this Agreement, including 
with non-licensed third parties; or (e) willful infringement, including use of the Tyler Software 
after we notify you to discontinue use due to such a claim.
1.3 If we receive information concerning an infringement or misappropriation claim related to the 
Tyler Software, we may, at our expense and without obligation to do so, either: (a) procure for 
you the right to continue its use; (b) modify it to make it non-infringing; or (c) replace it with a 
functional equivalent, in which case you will stop running the allegedly infringing Tyler Software 
immediately.  Alternatively, we may decide to litigate the claim to judgment, in which case you 
may continue to use the Tyler Software consistent with the terms of this Agreement.
1.4 If an infringement or misappropriation claim is fully litigated and your use of the Tyler Software 
is enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction, in addition to paying any adverse final 
judgment (or settlement to which we consent), we will, at our option, either: (a) procure the 
right to continue its use; (b) modify it to make it non-infringing; (c) replace it with a functional 
equivalent; or (d) terminate your license and refund the license fees paid for the infringing Tyler 
Software, as depreciated on a straight-line basis measured over seven (7) years from the 
Effective Date of the Initial Agreement.  We will pursue those options in the order listed herein.  
This section provides your exclusive remedy for third party copyright, patent, or trademark 
infringement and trade secret misappropriation claims.
325 of 662

--- page 326 ---
8
2.
General Indemnification.
2.1 We will indemnify and hold harmless you and your agents, officials, and employees from and 
against any and all third-party claims, losses, liabilities, damages, costs, and expenses (including 
reasonable attorney's fees and costs) for (a) personal injury or property damage to the extent 
caused by our negligence or willful misconduct; or (b) our violation of PCI DSS requirements or a 
law applicable to our performance under this Agreement.  You must notify us promptly in 
writing of the claim and give us sole control over its defense or settlement.  You agree to 
provide us with reasonable assistance, cooperation, and information in defending the claim at 
our expense.
2.2 To the extent permitted by applicable law, you will indemnify and hold harmless us and our 
agents, officials, and employees from and against any and all third-party claims, losses, 
liabilities, damages, costs, and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees and costs) for 
personal injury or property damage to the extent caused by your negligence or willful 
misconduct; or (b) your violation of a law applicable to your performance under this Agreement. 
We will notify you promptly in writing of the claim and will give you sole control over its defense 
or settlement.  We agree to provide you with reasonable assistance, cooperation, and 
information in defending the claim at your expense.
3.
DISCLAIMER.  EXCEPT FOR THE EXPRESS WARRANTIES PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT AND TO 
THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, WE HEREBY DISCLAIM ALL OTHER 
WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT 
NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES, DUTIES, OR CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY OR 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
4.
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, 
OUR LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER BASED ON A THEORY 
OF CONTRACT OR TORT, INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE AND STRICT LIABILITY, SHALL BE LIMITED TO 
YOUR ACTUAL DIRECT DAMAGES, NOT TO EXCEED THE THEN-CURRENT ANNUAL MAINTENANCE 
AND SUPPORT FEE.  THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT THE PRICES SET FORTH IN 
THIS AGREEMENT ARE SET IN RELIANCE UPON THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY AND TO THE 
MAXIMUM EXTENT ALLOWED UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, THE EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN DAMAGES, 
AND EACH SHALL APPLY REGARDLESS OF THE FAILURE OF AN ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY 
REMEDY.  THE FOREGOING LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO CLAIMS THAT ARE 
SUBJECT TO SECTIONS H(1) AND H(2).
5.
EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN DAMAGES.  TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, 
IN NO EVENT SHALL WE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, INDIRECT, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER, EVEN IF WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY 
OF SUCH DAMAGES.
6.
Insurance.  During the course of performing services under this Agreement, we agree to maintain 
the following levels of insurance: (a) Commercial General Liability of at least $1,000,000; (b) 
Automobile Liability of at least $1,000,000; (c) Professional Liability of at least $1,000,000; (d) 
Workers Compensation complying with applicable statutory requirements; and (e) Excess/Umbrella 
Liability of at least $5,000,000.  We will add you as an additional insured to our Commercial General 
326 of 662

--- page 327 ---
9
Liability and Automobile Liability policies, which will automatically add you as an additional insured 
to our Excess/Umbrella Liability policy as well.  We will provide you with copies of certificates of 
insurance upon your written request.
SECTION I – GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1.
Additional Products and Services.  You may purchase additional products and services at our then-
current list price, also by executing a mutually agreed addendum.  The terms of this Agreement will 
control any such additional purchase(s), unless otherwise specifically provided in the addendum.
2.
Dispute Resolution.  You agree to provide us with written notice within thirty (30) days of becoming 
aware of a dispute.  You agree to cooperate with us in trying to reasonably resolve all disputes, 
including, if requested by either party, appointing a senior representative to meet and engage in 
good faith negotiations with our appointed senior representative.  Senior representatives will 
convene within thirty (30) days of the written dispute notice, unless otherwise agreed.  All meetings 
and discussions between senior representatives will be deemed confidential settlement discussions 
not subject to disclosure under Federal Rule of Evidence 408 or any similar applicable state rule.  If 
we fail to resolve the dispute, then the parties shall participate in non-binding mediation in an effort 
to resolve the dispute.  If the dispute remains unresolved after mediation, then either of us may 
assert our respective rights and remedies in a court of competent jurisdiction.  Nothing in this 
section shall prevent you or us from seeking necessary injunctive relief during the dispute resolution 
procedures.
3.
Taxes.  Unless otherwise expressly indicated therein, the fees in the Investment Summary do not 
include any taxes, including, without limitation, sales, use, or excise tax.  If you are a tax-exempt 
entity, you agree to provide us with a tax-exempt certificate.  Otherwise, we will pay all applicable 
taxes to the proper authorities and you will reimburse us for such taxes.  If you have a valid direct-
pay permit, you agree to provide us with a copy.  For clarity, we are responsible for paying our 
income taxes, both federal and state, as applicable, arising from our performance of this Agreement.      
 
4.
Nondiscrimination.  We will not discriminate against any person employed or applying for 
employment concerning the performance of our responsibilities under this Agreement.  This 
discrimination prohibition will apply to all matters of initial employment, tenure, and terms of 
employment, or otherwise with respect to any matter directly or indirectly relating to employment 
concerning race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, ancestry, disability that 
is unrelated to the individual's ability to perform the duties of a particular job or position, height, 
weight, marital status, or political affiliation.  We will post, where appropriate, all notices related to 
nondiscrimination as may be required by applicable law.  
5.
E-Verify.  We have complied, and will comply, with the E-Verify procedures administered by the U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services Verification Division for all of our employees assigned to your 
project.
6.
Subcontractors.  We will not subcontract any services under this Agreement without your prior 
written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld.
7.
Binding Effect; No Assignment.  This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall be for the benefit of, 
either your or our successor(s) or permitted assign(s). Neither party may assign this Agreement 
327 of 662

--- page 328 ---
10
without the prior written consent of the other party; provided, however, your consent is not 
required for an assignment by us as a result of a corporate reorganization, merger, acquisition, or 
purchase of substantially all of our assets.
8.
Force Majeure.  Except for your payment obligations, neither party will be liable for delays in 
performing its obligations under this Agreement to the extent that the delay is caused by Force 
Majeure; provided, however, that within ten (10) business days of the Force Majeure event, the 
party whose performance is delayed provides the other party with written notice explaining the 
cause and extent thereof, as well as a request for a reasonable time extension equal to the 
estimated duration of the Force Majeure event.  
9.
No Intended Third Party Beneficiaries.  This Agreement is entered into solely for the benefit of you 
and us.  No third party will be deemed a beneficiary of this Agreement, and no third party will have 
the right to make any claim or assert any right under this Agreement.  This provision does not affect 
the rights of third parties under any Third Party Terms.
10. Entire Agreement; Amendment.  This Agreement represents the entire agreement between you and 
us with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes any prior agreements, understandings, 
and representations, whether written, oral, expressed, implied, or statutory.  Purchase orders 
submitted by you, if any, are for your internal administrative purposes only, and the terms and 
conditions contained in those purchase orders will have no force or effect. This Agreement may only 
be modified by a written amendment signed by an authorized representative of each party.
11. Severability.  If any term or provision of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, the 
remainder of this Agreement will be considered valid and enforceable to the fullest extent 
permitted by law.
12. No Waiver.  In the event that the terms and conditions of this Agreement are not strictly enforced 
by either party, such non-enforcement will not act as or be deemed to act as a waiver or 
modification of this Agreement, nor will such non-enforcement prevent such party from enforcing 
each and every term of this Agreement thereafter.
13. Independent Contractor.  We are an independent contractor for all purposes under this Agreement.
14. Notices.  All notices or communications required or permitted as a part of this Agreement, such as 
notice of an alleged material breach for a termination for cause or a dispute that must be submitted 
to dispute resolution, must be in writing and will be deemed delivered upon the earlier of the 
following: (a) actual receipt by the receiving party; (b) upon receipt by sender of a certified mail, 
return receipt signed by an employee or agent of the receiving party; (c) upon receipt by sender of 
proof of email delivery; or (d) if not actually received, five (5) days after deposit with the United 
States Postal Service authorized mail center with proper postage (certified mail, return receipt 
requested) affixed and addressed to the other party at the address set forth on the signature page 
hereto or such other address as the party may have designated by proper notice.  The consequences 
for the failure to receive a notice due to improper notification by the intended receiving party of a 
change in address will be borne by the intended receiving party.
15. Client Lists.  You agree that we may identify you by name in client lists, marketing presentations, and 
promotional materials.
328 of 662

--- page 329 ---
11
16. Confidentiality.  Both parties recognize that their respective employees and agents, in the course of 
performance of this Agreement, may be exposed to confidential information and that disclosure of 
such information could violate rights to private individuals and entities, including the parties.  
Confidential information is nonpublic information that a reasonable person would believe to be 
confidential and includes, without limitation, personal identifying information (e.g., social security 
numbers) and trade secrets, each as defined by applicable state law.  Each party agrees that it will 
not disclose any confidential information of the other party and further agrees to take all reasonable 
and appropriate action to prevent such disclosure by its employees or agents.  The confidentiality 
covenants contained herein will survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.  This 
obligation of confidentiality will not apply to information that:
(a) is in the public domain, either at the time of disclosure or afterwards, except by breach of 
this Agreement by a party or its employees or agents;
(b) a party can establish by reasonable proof was in that party's possession at the time of initial 
disclosure;
(c) a party receives from a third party who has a right to disclose it to the receiving party; or
(d) is the subject of a legitimate disclosure request under the open records laws or similar 
applicable public disclosure laws governing this Agreement; provided, however, that in the 
event you receive an open records or other similar applicable request, you will give us 
prompt notice and otherwise perform the functions required by applicable law.  
17. Governing Law.  This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of 
your state of domicile, without regard to its rules on conflicts of law.
18. Multiple Originals and Authorized Signatures.  This Agreement may be executed in multiple 
originals, any of which will be independently treated as an original document.  Any electronic, faxed, 
scanned, photocopied, or similarly reproduced signature on this Agreement or any amendment 
hereto will be deemed an original signature and will be fully enforceable as if an original signature.  
Each party represents to the other that the signatory set forth below is duly authorized to bind that 
party to this Agreement.
19. Contract Documents.  This Agreement includes the following exhibits:
Exhibit A 
Investment Summary
Exhibit B 
Invoicing and Payment Policy
Schedule 1: Business Travel Policy
Exhibit C 
Maintenance and Support Agreement 
Schedule 1: Support Call Process
329 of 662

--- page 330 ---
12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, a duly authorized representative of each party has executed this Agreement as 
of the date(s) set forth below.
Tyler Technologies, Inc.
City of San Mateo
By:
By:
Name:                                                  
Name:     Pete Owen                                    
Title:                                         
Title: Director of Information Technology
Date:
Date:
Address for Notices:
Address for Notices:
Tyler Technologies, Inc.
City of San Mateo
One Tyler Drive
330 W. 20th Avenue
Yarmouth, ME 04096
San Mateo, CA 94403
Attention: Chief Legal Officer
Attention: Pete Owen 
330 of 662

--- page 331 ---
Exhibit A
1
Exhibit A
Investment Summary
The following Investment Summary details the software, products, and services to be delivered by us to 
you under the Agreement.  This Investment Summary is effective as of the Effective Date.  Capitalized 
terms not otherwise defined will have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Agreement. 
REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
331 of 662

--- page 332 ---
Exhibit A

Remittance: -
a ee Tyler Technologies, Inc. Invoice
% ee (FEIN 75-2303920)
2 . P.O. Box 203556 Invoice No Date
e technologies Dallas, TX 75320-3556 045-362765 42/01/2024
Questions: |
Tyler Technologies - ERP & Schools
Phone: 1-800-772-2260 Press 2, then 1
Email: ar@tylertech.com
Bill To: City of San Mateo ship To: City of San Mateo
Attn: Peter Roth Attn: Peter Roth
Finance Director Finance Director
330 West 20th Avenue 330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403 San Mateo, CA 94403
ustomer No. Ord No PO Number Currency Terms Due Date
§285 165549 USD NET30 12/31/2021
Date Description Units Rate Extended Price
Accounts Receivable Support 1 6,388.19 6,388.19
Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Data Dictionaries Support 4 1,022.11 1,022.11
Maintenance: Start: O1Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Fixed Assets Support 1 6,388.19 6,388.19
Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
GUAP Support 1 25,552.87 25,552.87
Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Dee/2022
Menu Support 1 1,873.86 1,873.86
Maintenance: Start: O1Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Project Accounting Support 1 12,776.43 12,776.43
Maintenance: Start: O1Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Purchasing Support 1 6,388.19 6,388.19
Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Requisitions. Support 1 2,555.28 2,555.28
Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
State Package Support 1 1,703.54 1,703.54
Maintenance: Start: O1Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Human Resources Support Web 1 3,487.23 3,487.23
Maintenance: Start: O1Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Human Resources Support 4 6,044.54 6,044.54
Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Payroll Support 1 14,646.38 14,646.38
Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Position Budgeting Support 1 2,788.78 2,789.78
Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Deec/2022
Tyler Output Precessing Support 1 3,196.64 3,196.64
Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Advanced Budgeting Support 4 4,184.67 4,184.67
Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022
Tyler Cashiering Support 4 10,357.56 10,357.56

Maintenance: Start: O1/Jan/2022, End: 31/Dec/2022

“<. tyler

technologies

332 of 662


--- page 333 ---
“tyler,

Bill Te: City of San Mateo
Attn: Peter Roth
Finance Director
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Exhibit A

Remittance:

Tyler Technologies, Inc.
(FEIN 75-2303920)
P.O. Box 203556
Dallas, TX 75320-3556

Invoice

Invoice No Date Page

045-362765 12/01/2021 2of2

Questio
Tyler Technologies - ERP & Schools

Phone: 1-800-772-2260 Press 2, then 1
Email: ar@tylertech.com

Ship To: City of San Mateo
Attn: Peter Roth
Finance Director
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

ustomer No. Ord No PO Number Currency Terms Due Date
5285 165549 USD NET30 12/31/2021
Date Description Units Rate Extended Price

* ATTENTION**

Subtotal 109,355.46

Order your checks and forms from
Tyler Business Forms at 877-749-2090 or
tylerbusinessforms.com to guarantee
100% compliance with your software.

Invoice Total 109,355.46

“. tyler.

technolog

333 of 662


--- page 334 ---
Exhibit B
1
Exhibit B
Invoicing and Payment Policy
We will provide you with the software and services set forth in the Investment Summary.  Capitalized 
terms not otherwise defined will have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Agreement.
Invoicing:  We will invoice you for the applicable license and services fees in the Investment Summary as 
set forth below.  Your rights to dispute any invoice are set forth in the Agreement.
1.
Tyler Software.
1.1 License Fees: License fees are invoiced as follows: 100% on the Effective Date.
1.2 Maintenance and Support Fees: Year 1 maintenance and support fees are due prior to 
January 31, 2022.
2.
Professional Services.
2.1 Implementation and Other Professional Services (including training): Implementation and 
other professional services (including training) are billed and invoiced as delivered, at the 
rates set forth in the Investment Summary.
2.2 Consulting Services: If you have purchased any Business Process Consulting services, if they 
have been quoted as fixed-fee services, they will be invoiced 50% upon delivery of the Best 
Practice Recommendations, by module, and 50% upon delivery of custom desktop 
procedures, by module.  If you have purchased any Business Process Consulting services and 
they are quoted as an estimate, then we will bill you the actual services delivered on a time 
and materials basis.
2.3 Conversions: Fixed-fee conversions are invoiced 50% upon initial delivery of the converted 
data, by conversion option, and 50% upon Client acceptance to load the converted data into 
Live/Production environment, by conversion option.  Where conversions are quoted as 
estimated, we will bill you the actual services delivered on a time and materials basis.
2.4 Requested Modifications to the Tyler Software: Requested modifications to the Tyler 
Software are invoiced 50% upon delivery of specifications and 50% upon delivery of the 
applicable modification.  You must report any failure of the modification to conform to the 
specifications within thirty (30) days of delivery; otherwise, the modification will be deemed 
to be in compliance with the specifications after the 30-day window has passed.  You may 
still report Defects to us as set forth in the Maintenance and Support Agreement.
2.5 Other Fixed Price Services: Except as otherwise provided, other fixed price services are 
334 of 662

--- page 335 ---
Exhibit B
2
invoiced as delivered, at the rates set forth in the Investment Summary. For the avoidance 
of doubt, where “Project Planning Services” are provided, payment will be due upon 
delivery of the Implementation Planning document.
3.
Third Party Products.
3.1 Third Party Software License Fees: License fees for Third Party Software, if any, are invoiced 
when we make it available to you for downloading.
3.2 Third Party Software Maintenance: The first year maintenance fees for the Third Party 
Software, if any, is invoiced when we make that Third Party Software available to you for 
downloading.
3.3 Third Party Hardware: Third Party Hardware costs, if any, are invoiced upon delivery.
3.4 Third Party Services:  Fees for Third Party Services, if any, are invoiced as delivered, along 
with applicable expenses, at the rates set forth in the Investment Summary.
4.
Expenses.  The service rates in the Investment Summary do not include travel expenses.  
Expenses for Tyler delivered services will be billed as incurred and only in accordance with our 
then-current Business Travel Policy, plus a 10% travel agency processing fee.  Our current 
Business Travel Policy is attached to this Exhibit B at Schedule 1.  Copies of receipts will be 
provided upon request; we reserve the right to charge you an administrative fee depending on 
the extent of your requests.  Receipts for miscellaneous items less than twenty-five dollars and 
mileage logs are not available.
Payment.  Payment for undisputed invoices is due within forty-five (45) days of the invoice date.  We 
prefer to receive payments electronically.  Our electronic payment information is:
Bank:
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
420 Montgomery
San Francisco, CA 94104
ABA:
121000248
Account:
4124302472
Beneficiary:
Tyler Technologies, Inc. – Operating
335 of 662

--- page 336 ---
Exhibit B
Schedule 1
1
Exhibit B
Schedule 1
Business Travel Policy
1.
Air Travel 
 
A.
Reservations & Tickets 
 
The Travel Management Company (TMC) used by Tyler will provide an employee with a direct flight 
within two hours before or after the requested departure time, assuming that flight does not add 
more than three hours to the employee’s total trip duration and the fare is within $100 (each way) 
of the lowest logical fare.  If a net savings of $200 or more (each way) is possible through a 
connecting flight that is within two hours before or after the requested departure time and that 
does not add more than three hours to the employee’s total trip duration, the connecting flight 
should be accepted.   
 
Employees are encouraged to make advanced reservations to take full advantage of discount 
opportunities.  Employees should use all reasonable efforts to make travel arrangements at least 
two (2) weeks in advance of commitments.  A seven (7) day advance booking requirement is 
mandatory.  When booking less than seven (7) days in advance, management approval will be 
required.   
 
Except in the case of international travel where a segment of continuous air travel is six (6) or more 
consecutive hours in length, only economy or coach class seating is reimbursable. Employees shall 
not be reimbursed for “Basic Economy Fares” because these fares are non-refundable and have 
many restrictions that outweigh the cost-savings.
 
B.
Baggage Fees 
 
Reimbursement of personal baggage charges are based on trip duration as follows: 
 
•
Up to five (5) days = one (1) checked bag 
•
Six (6) or more days = two (2) checked bags 
 
Baggage fees for sports equipment are not reimbursable. 
 
336 of 662

--- page 337 ---
Exhibit B
Schedule 1
2
2.
Ground Transportation 
 
A.
Private Automobile 
 
Mileage Allowance – Business use of an employee’s private automobile will be reimbursed at the 
current IRS allowable rate, plus out of pocket costs for tolls and parking.  Mileage will be calculated 
by using the employee's office as the starting and ending point, in compliance with IRS regulations.  
Employees who have been designated a home office should calculate miles from their home. 
B.
Rental Car 
Employees are authorized to rent cars only in conjunction with air travel when cost, convenience, 
and the specific situation reasonably require their use.  When renting a car for Tyler business, 
employees should select a “mid-size” or “intermediate” car.  “Full” size cars may be rented when 
three or more employees are traveling together.  Tyler carries leased vehicle coverage for business 
car rentals; except for employees traveling to Alaska and internationally (excluding Canada), 
additional insurance on the rental agreement should be declined. 
C.
Public Transportation 
 
Taxi or airport limousine services may be considered when traveling in and around cities or to and 
from airports when less expensive means of transportation are unavailable or impractical.  The 
actual fare plus a reasonable tip (15-18%) are reimbursable.  In the case of a free hotel shuttle to the 
airport, tips are included in the per diem rates and will not be reimbursed separately. 
 
D. Parking & Tolls 
 
When parking at the airport, employees must use longer term parking areas that are measured in 
days as opposed to hours.  Park and fly options located near some airports may also be used.  For 
extended trips that would result in excessive parking charges, public transportation to/from the 
airport should be considered.  Tolls will be reimbursed when receipts are presented. 
 
3.
Lodging 
 
Tyler’s TMC will select hotel chains that are well established, reasonable in price, and conveniently 
located in relation to the traveler's work assignment.  Typical hotel chains include Courtyard, 
Fairfield Inn, Hampton Inn, and Holiday Inn Express.  If the employee has a discount rate with a local 
hotel, the hotel reservation should note that discount and the employee should confirm the lower 
rate with the hotel upon arrival.  Employee memberships in travel clubs such as AAA should be 
noted in their travel profiles so that the employee can take advantage of any lower club rates.  
 
“No shows” or cancellation fees are not reimbursable if the employee does not comply with the 
hotel’s cancellation policy. 
 
Tips for maids and other hotel staff are included in the per diem rate and are not reimbursed 
separately. 
337 of 662

--- page 338 ---
Exhibit B
Schedule 1
3
Employees are not authorized to reserve non-traditional short-term lodging, such as Airbnb, VRBO, 
and HomeAway. Employees who elect to make such reservations shall not be reimbursed.
 
4.
Meals and Incidental Expenses 
 
Employee meals and incidental expenses while on travel status within the continental U.S. are in 
accordance with the federal per diem rates published by the General Services Administration.  
Incidental expenses include tips to maids, hotel staff, and shuttle drivers and other minor travel 
expenses.  Per diem rates are available at www.gsa.gov/perdiem.   
Per diem for Alaska, Hawaii, U.S. protectorates and international destinations are provided 
separately by the Department of State and will be determined as required. 
A.
Overnight Travel 
For each full day of travel, all three meals are reimbursable.  Per diems on the first and last day of a 
trip are governed as set forth below.   
Departure Day 
 
Depart before 12:00 noon 
 
 
Lunch and dinner 
Depart after 12:00 noon  
 
 
 
Return Day 
 
Dinner 
Return before 12:00 noon 
 
 
Breakfast 
Return between 12:00 noon & 7:00 p.m.  
Breakfast and lunch 
Return after 7:00 p.m.*   
 
 
Breakfast, lunch and dinner 
 
*7:00 p.m. is defined as direct travel time and does not include time taken to stop for dinner. 
 
The reimbursement rates for individual meals are calculated as a percentage of the full day per diem 
as follows: 
 
Breakfast 
15% 
 
Lunch 
 
25% 
 
Dinner  
60% 
 
B.
Same Day Travel 
 
Employees traveling at least 100 miles to a site and returning in the same day are eligible to claim 
lunch on an expense report.  Employees on same day travel status are eligible to claim dinner in the 
event they return home after 7:00 p.m.* 
 
338 of 662

--- page 339 ---
Exhibit B
Schedule 1
4
*7:00 p.m. is defined as direct travel time and does not include time taken to stop for dinner. 
 
5.
Internet Access – Hotels and Airports 
 
Employees who travel may need to access their e-mail at night.  Many hotels provide free high 
speed internet access and Tyler employees are encouraged to use such hotels whenever possible.  If 
an employee’s hotel charges for internet access it is reimbursable up to $10.00 per day.  Charges for 
internet access at airports are not reimbursable. 
 
6.
International Travel 
All international flights with the exception of flights between the U.S. and Canada should be 
reserved through TMC using the “lowest practical coach fare” with the exception of flights that are 
six (6) or more consecutive hours in length. In such event, the next available seating class above 
coach shall be reimbursed. 
When required to travel internationally for business, employees shall be reimbursed for photo fees, 
application fees, and execution fees when obtaining a new passport book, but fees related to 
passport renewals are not reimbursable. Visa application and legal fees, entry taxes and departure 
taxes are reimbursable. 
The cost of vaccinations that are either required for travel to specific countries or suggested by the 
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services for travel to specific countries, is reimbursable. 
Section 4, Meals & Incidental Expenses, and Section 2.b., Rental Car, shall apply to this section.
339 of 662

--- page 340 ---
Exhibit C
1
Exhibit C
Maintenance and Support Agreement
We will provide you with the following maintenance and support services for the Tyler Software.  
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined will have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Agreement.  
 
1.
Term.  We provide maintenance and support services on an annual basis.  The initial term 
commences on January 1, 2022, and remains in effect for one (1) year.  The term will renew 
automatically for additional one (1) year terms unless terminated in writing by either party at least 
thirty (30) days prior to the end of the then-current term.
2.
Maintenance and Support Fees.  Your year 1 maintenance and support fees for the Tyler Software 
are listed in the Investment Summary, and your payment obligations are set forth in the Invoicing 
and Payment Policy.   We reserve the right to suspend maintenance and support services if you fail 
to pay undisputed maintenance and support fees within thirty (30) days of our written notice.  We 
will reinstate maintenance and support services only if you pay all past due maintenance and 
support fees, including all fees for the periods during which services were suspended.    
3.
Maintenance and Support Services.  As long as you are not using the Help Desk as a substitute for 
our training services on the Tyler Software, and you timely pay your maintenance and support fees, 
we will, consistent with our then-current Support Call Process:
3.1 perform our maintenance and support obligations in a professional, good, and workmanlike 
manner, consistent with industry standards, to resolve Defects in the Tyler Software (limited to 
the then-current version and the immediately prior version); provided, however, that if you 
modify the Tyler Software without our consent, our obligation to provide maintenance and 
support services on and warrant the Tyler Software will be void;
3.2 provide telephone support during our established support hours;
3.3 maintain personnel that are sufficiently trained to be familiar with the Tyler Software and Third 
Party Software, if any, in order to provide maintenance and support services;
3.4 provide you with a copy of all major and minor releases to the Tyler Software (including updates 
and enhancements) that we make generally available without additional charge to customers 
who have a maintenance and support agreement in effect; and
3.5 provide non-Defect resolution support of prior releases of the Tyler Software in accordance with 
our then-current release life cycle policy.
4.
Client Responsibilities.  We will use all reasonable efforts to perform any maintenance and support 
340 of 662

--- page 341 ---
Exhibit C
2
services remotely.  Currently, we use a third-party secure unattended connectivity tool called 
Bomgar, as well as GotoAssist by Citrix.  Therefore, you agree to maintain a high-speed internet 
connection capable of connecting us to your PCs and server(s).  You agree to provide us with a login 
account and local administrative privileges as we may reasonably require to perform remote 
services.  We will, at our option, use the secure connection to assist with proper diagnosis and 
resolution, subject to any reasonably applicable security protocols.  If we cannot resolve a support 
issue remotely, we may be required to provide onsite services.  In such event, we will be responsible 
for our travel expenses, unless it is determined that the reason onsite support was required was a 
reason outside our control.  Either way, you agree to provide us with full and free access to the Tyler 
Software, working space, adequate facilities within a reasonable distance from the equipment, and 
use of machines, attachments, features, or other equipment reasonably necessary for us to provide 
the maintenance and support services, all at no charge to us.  We strongly recommend that you also 
maintain a VPN for backup connectivity purposes. 
5.
Hardware and Other Systems.  If you are a self-hosted customer and, in the process of diagnosing a 
software support issue, it is discovered that one of your peripheral systems or other software is the 
cause of the issue, we will notify you so that you may contact the support agency for that peripheral 
system. We cannot support or maintain Third Party Products except as expressly set forth in the 
Agreement.
In order for us to provide the highest level of software support, you bear the following responsibility 
related to hardware and software: 
(a) All infrastructure executing Tyler Software shall be managed by you;
(b) You will maintain support contracts for all non-Tyler software associated with Tyler Software 
(including operating systems and database management systems, but excluding Third-Party 
Software, if any); and
(c) You will perform daily database backups and verify that those backups are successful. 
6.
Other Excluded Services.  Maintenance and support fees do not include fees for the following 
services: (a) initial installation or implementation of the Tyler Software; (b) onsite maintenance and 
support (unless Tyler cannot remotely correct a Defect in the Tyler Software, as set forth above); (c) 
application design; (d) other consulting services; (e) maintenance and support of an operating 
system or hardware, unless you are a hosted customer; (f) support outside our normal business 
hours as listed in our then-current Support Call Process; or (g) installation, training services, or third 
party product costs related to a new release.  Requested maintenance and support services such as 
those outlined in this section will be billed to you on a time and materials basis at our then current 
rates.  You must request those services with at least one (1) weeks’ advance notice.  
7.
Current Support Call Process.  Our current Support Call Process for the Tyler Software is attached to 
this Exhibit C at Schedule 1.
341 of 662

--- page 342 ---
Exhibit C
Schedule 1
1
Exhibit C
Schedule 1
Support Call Process
Support Channels
Tyler Technologies, Inc. provides the following channels of software support:  
(1) Tyler Community – an on-line resource, Tyler Community provides a venue for all Tyler clients 
with current maintenance agreements to collaborate with one another, share best practices and 
resources, and access documentation.  
(2) On-line submission (portal) – for less urgent and functionality-based questions, users may create 
unlimited support incidents through the customer relationship management portal available at 
the Tyler Technologies website.  
(3) Email – for less urgent situations, users may submit unlimited emails directly to the software 
support group.
(4) Telephone – for urgent or complex questions, users receive toll-free, unlimited telephone 
software support. 
Support Resources
A number of additional resources are available to provide a comprehensive and complete support 
experience: 
(1) Tyler Website – www.tylertech.com – for accessing client tools and other information including 
support contact information. 
(2) Tyler Community – available through login, Tyler Community provides a venue for clients to 
support one another and share best practices and resources. 
(3) Knowledgebase – A fully searchable depository of thousands of documents related to 
procedures, best practices, release information, and job aides. 
(4) Program Updates – where development activity is made available for client consumption
Support Availability
Tyler Technologies support is available during the local business hours of 8 AM to 5 PM (Monday – 
Friday) across four US time zones (Pacific, Mountain, Central and Eastern). Clients may receive coverage 
across these time zones. Tyler’s holiday schedule is outlined below. There will be no support coverage 
on these days. 
New Year’s Day
Thanksgiving Day
Memorial Day
Day after Thanksgiving
Independence Day
Christmas Day
Labor Day
342 of 662

--- page 343 ---
Exhibit C
Schedule 1
2
Issue Handling
Incident Tracking
Every support incident is logged into Tyler’s Customer Relationship Management System and given a 
unique incident number. This system tracks the history of each incident. The incident tracking number is 
used to track and reference open issues when clients contact support. Clients may track incidents, using 
the incident number, through the portal at Tyler’s website or by calling software support directly. 
Incident Priority
Each incident is assigned a priority number, which corresponds to the client’s needs and deadlines. The 
client is responsible for reasonably setting the priority of the incident per the chart below. This chart is 
not intended to address every type of support incident, and certain “characteristics” may or may not 
apply depending on whether the Tyler software has been deployed on customer infrastructure or the 
Tyler cloud. The goal is to help guide the client towards clearly understanding and communicating the 
importance of the issue and to describe generally expected responses and resolutions.  
Priority 
Level
Characteristics of Support Incident
Resolution Targets
1
Critical
Support incident that causes (a) 
complete application failure or 
application unavailability; (b) 
application failure or unavailability in 
one or more of the client’s remote 
location; or (c) systemic loss of multiple 
essential system functions.
Tyler shall provide an initial response to Priority Level 
1 incidents within one (1) business hour of receipt of 
the support incident.  Tyler shall use commercially 
reasonable efforts to resolve such support incidents 
or provide a circumvention procedure within one (1) 
business day.  For non-hosted customers, Tyler’s 
responsibility for lost or corrupted data is limited to 
assisting the client in restoring its last available 
database.
2
High
Support incident that causes (a) 
repeated, consistent failure of essential 
functionality affecting more than one 
user or (b) loss or corruption of data.
Tyler shall provide an initial response to Priority Level 
2 incidents within four (4) business hours of receipt of 
the support incident.  Tyler shall use commercially 
reasonable efforts to resolve such support 
incidents or provide a circumvention procedure 
within ten (10) business days.  For non-hosted 
customers, Tyler’s responsibility for loss or corrupted 
data is limited to assisting the client in restoring its 
last available database.
343 of 662

--- page 344 ---
Exhibit C
Schedule 1
3
Priority 
Level
Characteristics of Support Incident
Resolution Targets
3
Medium
Priority Level 1 incident with an existing 
circumvention procedure, or a Priority 
Level 2 incident that affects only one 
user or for which there is an existing 
circumvention procedure.
Tyler shall provide an initial response to Priority Level 
3 incidents within one (1) business day of receipt of 
the support incident.  Tyler shall use commercially 
reasonable efforts to resolve such support incidents 
without the need for a circumvention procedure with 
the next published maintenance update or service 
pack.  For non-hosted customers, Tyler’s 
responsibility for lost or corrupted data is limited to 
assisting the client in restoring its last available 
database.
4
Non-
critical
Support incident that causes failure of 
non-essential functionality or a 
cosmetic or other issue that does not 
qualify as any other Priority Level.
Tyler shall provide an initial response to Priority Level 
4 incidents within two (2) business days.  Tyler shall 
use commercially reasonable efforts to resolve such 
support incidents, as well as cosmetic issues, with a 
future version release.
Incident Escalation 
Tyler Technology’s software support consists of four levels of personnel: 
(1) Level 1: front-line representatives
(2) Level 2: more senior in their support role, they assist front-line representatives and take on 
escalated issues
(3) Level 3: assist in incident escalations and specialized client issues
(4) Level 4: responsible for the management of support teams for either a single product or a 
product group
If a client feels they are not receiving the service needed, they may contact the appropriate Software 
Support Manager. After receiving the incident tracking number, the manager will follow up on the open 
issue and determine the necessary action to meet the client’s needs.
On occasion, the priority or immediacy of a software support incident may change after initiation. Tyler 
encourages clients to communicate the level of urgency or priority of software support issues so that we 
can respond appropriately. A software support incident can be escalated by any of the following 
methods: 
(1) Telephone – for immediate response, call toll-free to either escalate an incident’s priority or to 
escalate an issue through management channels as described above. 
(2) Email – clients can send an email to software support in order to escalate the priority of an issue
(3) On-line Support Incident Portal – clients can also escalate the priority of an issue by logging into 
the client incident portal and referencing the appropriate incident tracking number. 
Remote Support Tool
Some support calls require further analysis of the client’s database, process or setup to diagnose a 
problem or to assist with a question. Tyler will, at its discretion, use an industry-standard remote 
support tool. Support is able to quickly connect to the client’s desktop and view the site’s setup, 
diagnose problems, or assist with screen navigation. More information about the remote support tool 
Tyler uses is available upon request.
344 of 662

--- page 345 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-5537
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
State Route 92/El Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project – Funding Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution and approve a funding agreement between the City and the San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority for the State Route 92/El Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project. 
BACKGROUND:
On October 20, 2014, the City and San Mateo County Transportation Authority (SMCTA) entered into a funding agreement 
for the State Route (SR) 92/El Camino Real (SR 82) Ramp Modification Project (Project).  The roadway and ramp 
modification portions of the Project were completed during December 2018. The Project originally included installation of 
landscaping within the project limits as part of the environmental commitment of the SR 92/SR 82 Interchange 
Improvement Project Initial Study with Negative Declaration, dated May 2014, under the California Environmental Quality 
Act (CEQA).  However, the landscaping portion of the work was postponed in 2016 due to the California drought.  
Staff is in the final stages of design and plans to return to Council for award of the construction contract by fall 2022.  
Completion of the construction of the Project is anticipated by summer of 2023.  Accordingly, City staff requested that 
SMCTA reprogram remaining funding for the Project to complete construction of the landscaping portion of the Project.  
On August 5, 2021, SMCTA’s Board of Directors approved reprograming and allocating $1.35 million of Measure A funds 
for the SR 92/SR 82 Landscaping Project.  The SMCTA funding requires an executed agreement between the City and 
SMCTA be approved by City Council.      
Staff recommends approval of the agreement to secure the necessary funding to complete the design and transition to the 
construction when appropriate. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The design services and City staff costs are funded by Traffic Impact Fees. Per the funding agreement, SMCTA has allocated 
$1.35 million of Measure A funds to the construction of the SR92/SR 82 Landscape Improvements Project.  
The City will fund the amount in excess of the SMCTA’s contribution needed to complete the Project with Traffic Impact 
Fees.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action of approving the funding agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).) 
The landscape restoration received environmental clearance when the project level initial study and negative declaration 
345 of 662

--- page 346 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
for the highway improvements project was approved in May 2014. Environmental clearance for the landscape work has 
been re-validated by Caltrans on September 2, 2021. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Funding Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Jana Cadiz, Assistant Engineer
jcadiz@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7575
Tina Pham, Senior Engineer
tpham@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7305
346 of 662

--- page 347 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
APPROVING THE FUNDING AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SAN MATEO COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORTY 
FOR THE STATE ROUTE 92/EL CAMINO REAL LANDSCAPING IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT 
WHEREAS, on October 10, 2014, the City of San Mateo (City) and San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority (SMCTA) entered into the Funding Agreement for the SR92/El Camino Real Ramp Modification Project 
(Project), which has reached the end of its term;
WHEREAS, the roadway portion of the Project was completed in December 2018 since the landscaping 
portion was postponed due to the California drought situation; 
WHEREAS, the City has requested SMCTA to reprogram and allocate savings from the roadway portion 
to the landscaping phase in order to complete the Project; and
WHEREAS, on August 5, 2021, SMCTA approved $1.35 million to be programmed and allocated to the 
State Route 92/El Camino Landscaping Improvements Project.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
The approval of the funding agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in 
the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
2.
The City Council authorizes the City Manager to execute the funding agreement between the City 
and SMCTA for the State Route 92/El Camino Landscaping Improvements Project.
347 of 662

--- page 348 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
1
18009762.6 
FUNDING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE SAN MATEO COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY AND 
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
FOR THE LANDSCAPING PHASE OF THE STATE ROUTE (SR) 92/EL CAMINO 
REAL INTERCHANGE PROJECT
This Funding Agreement (Agreement) is made this ___ day of ________, 2022 (Execution Date) 
by and between the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (TA) and the City of San Mateo 
(Sponsor), referred to herein individually as “Party” and jointly as “Parties.”
RECITALS
WHEREAS, on June 7, 1988, the voters of San Mateo County approved a ballot measure 
to allow the collection and distribution by the San Mateo County Transportation Authority (TA) 
of a half-cent transactions and use tax in San Mateo County for 20 years with the tax revenues to 
be used for highway and transit improvements pursuant to the Transportation Expenditure Plan 
presented to the voters (Original Measure A); and
WHEREAS, on November 2, 2004, the voters of San Mateo County approved the 
continuation of the collection and distribution by the TA of the Measure A half cent transaction 
and use tax for an additional 25 years to implement the 2004 Transportation Expenditure Plan, 
beginning January 1, 2009 (New Measure A); and
WHEREAS, through Resolution 2012-17, the TA Board of Directors (Board) 
programmed and allocated $2.2 million towards the environmental and design phases of the State 
Route 92/El Camino Real Interchange Project (Project); and
WHEREAS, through Resolution 2015-19, the Board programmed and allocated $16.2 
million towards the construction phase of the Project; and
WHEREAS, when the environmental, design and construction phases of the Project 
were completed in December 2018, $1.35 million in Project funds previously allocated by the 
TA remained unspent; and
WHEREAS, the Sponsor is currently preparing for the landscaping phase of the Project  
and has requested that the TA reprogram and reallocate the TA’s $1.35 million share of the 
Project savings for the landscaping construction portion of the Project (Scope of Work); and
WHEREAS, on August 5, 2021, through Resolution 2021-20, the TA’s Board of 
Directors reprogramed and reallocated $1.35 million of Measure A funds previously 
programmed and allocated for the environmental, design and construction phases of the Project 
to the Scope of Work (Measure A Funds); and
WHEREAS, the Sponsor has committed to fund any additional expenditures required to 
complete the Project; and
348 of 662

--- page 349 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
2
18009762.6 
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter into this Agreement to establish the process, 
terms and conditions governing the allocation and expenditure of Measure A Funds on the Scope 
of Work.  
NOW THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows: 
SECTION 1: Scope of Work Oversight and Reporting
1.0 Sponsor Oversight; Work Plan.  Sponsor is responsible for the completion of Scope of 
Work as described in Exhibit A-1, “Scope of Work Information”, which is attached to the 
Agreement and incorporated herein by this reference. Sponsor is responsible for 
procuring and administering any professional service and/or other contracts entered into 
in connection with the Scope of Work; Sponsor will oversee completion of the Scope of 
Work. Sponsor may appoint a designee or engage contractor(s) to perform work 
necessary for Scope of Work completion, but Sponsor remains responsible to the TA for 
the completion of the Scope of Work.   
1.1 Required Approvals.  Prior to commencement of the Scope of Work, Sponsor or its 
designee (e.g., a consultant) will obtain all applicable local, state and federal approvals 
and permits for the Scope of Work.  In addition, Sponsor must comply with all applicable 
federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to the Project.  All real property 
appraisals must comply with Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice 
(USPAP).  Any right-of-way activities involving property on the Caltrans right-of-way 
must be conducted in accordance with the current version of the Caltrans Right-of Way 
manual.  
1.2 Contract Award and Change Orders.  Sponsor must comply with state and local 
agency requirements for the award of any contract(s) for the performance of the Scope of 
Work and any change orders.  As the Scope of Work proceeds, Sponsor must advise the 
TA of any contracts awarded and change orders as part of the regular progress reporting 
requirements (Section 1.4).  Notice of any contracts and change orders provided to the 
TA will not constitute approval by the TA of the contracts and change orders nor obligate 
the TA to provide funds in excess of its maximum contribution stated in Section 2.1 of 
this Agreement.  
1.3 Progress Reports.  Sponsor will prepare and submit to the TA quarterly progress reports 
during the entire term of the Scope of Work and covering all Scope of Work activities for 
work completed during the previous quarter using the template in Exhibit B.  The reports 
must describe:
a.
The current status of, and any changes in, scope, schedule, budget, and funding 
plans of the Scope of Work and the Project;
b.
Any risk factors;
c.
The work performed during the previous quarter and projected for the next three 
months;
349 of 662

--- page 350 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
3
18009762.6 
d.
Scope of Work Costs (as defined in Section 2.1, below) projected to be expended 
during the next three months; and
e.
Any other information requested by the TA.  
1.4 Final Report.  Within ninety (90) days of Sponsor’s final acceptance of the Scope of 
Work and all incidental work, Sponsor must prepare and submit to the TA a final report 
detailing the following and all other relevant information:
a.
A description of the Project, including a statement detailing the overall progress 
and success of the Scope of Work and the Project, a compilation of any data 
collected during the active Phase(s) of the Project, and changes/additions to the 
scope of the Project.
b.
Total costs for the Scope of Work, including an accounting of all Measure A 
Funds expended in connection with the Scope of Work, and reflecting any 
unexpended Measure A Funds.
c.
An explanation and the status of any outstanding obligations or potential 
obligations related to the Scope of Work.
d.
A discussion of any pertinent issues or problems that arose during the 
implementation of the Scope of Work.  
e.
Any copies of press articles, press releases, newsletter articles and any other 
publicity materials regarding the Project.
f.
A Project Close-out form confirming that no further reimbursements associated 
with the Scope of Work are anticipated and that all draw-down requests have been 
made.
g.
Photographs for all construction projects that satisfactorily demonstrate:
i.
site conditions before the project was implemented;
ii.
work in progress; and
iii.
completed improvements.
1.5 Access to Records and Record Retention.  At all reasonable times, Sponsor will permit 
the TA access to all reports, designs, drawings, plans, specifications, schedules and other 
materials prepared, or in the process of being prepared, for the Scope of Work by the 
Sponsor or any contractor or consultant of Sponsor.  Sponsor will also make available to 
the TA upon request any professional service agreements, change orders and any other 
agreements that are related to the Scope of Work.  Sponsor will provide copies of any 
documents described in this Section to the TA on request.  Sponsor will retain all records 
pertaining to the Scope of Work for at least three years after completion of the Project.
1.6 Audits
a.
The TA, or its authorized agents, may at any reasonable time during business 
hours, conduct an audit of Sponsor’s performance under this Agreement. Sponsor 
will permit the TA, or its authorized agents, to examine, inspect, make excerpts 
from, transcribe or photocopy books, documents, papers and other records of 
Sponsor which the TA reasonably determines to be relevant to this Agreement.  
b.
Sponsor will transmit to the TA the Independent Auditor’s Report prepared for 
Sponsor’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report within thirty (30) days of 
350 of 662

--- page 351 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
4
18009762.6 
receipt by Sponsor and highlight the section that pertains to the Measure A 
funding.  
SECTION 2: Funding and Payment
2.1 Funding Commitment  
a.
The TA allocates to Sponsor up to $1.35 million (pursuant to TA Resolution No. 
2021-20), for reimbursement of expenditures related to the Scope of Work (Scope 
of Work Costs) as provided in this Section 2. Sponsor will contribute, or provide 
for the contribution of, the entire amount in excess of $1.35 million needed to 
complete the Scope of Work.  Sponsor must provide at least 32% of the Scope of 
Work Costs.  The TA's funding commitment under this Agreement in no way 
establishes a right for Sponsor to receive additional funding from the TA. All 
funding obligations of the TA under this Agreement are subject to downward 
adjustment based on actual sales tax receipts for the fiscal years indicated.
b.
Sponsor will assess and confirm its ability to complete the Scope of Work within 
budget as part of the quarterly reporting requirements established in Section 1.4, 
above.  Sponsor must further notify the TA between reporting cycles if Sponsor 
determines that the budget will not be sufficient to complete the Scope of Work.   
The TA reserves the right to suspend its funding obligation as set forth in Section 
3.4 of this Agreement upon such notice, and until Sponsor develops a credible 
funding plan acceptable to the TA to fund and complete the Scope of Work.
2.2 Use of Funds
a.
Measure A Funds shall be used only for direct eligible costs to complete the 
Scope of Work.  The Sponsor is responsible for demonstrating to the TA that the 
expenses incurred were necessary to deliver the Scope of Work.  Reimbursement 
for the following costs will require detailed documentation in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles:
i.
Scope of Work phases or components such as stakeholder/public outreach; 
development of planning studies, project initiation documents (PID), 
project study reports (PSR), environmental clearance, project approval and 
environmental 
document 
(PA&ED), 
project 
design, 
and 
plans 
specifications and estimates (PS&E); regulatory agency review; 
acquisition of right-of-way; construction, and construction management;
ii.
Costs directly tied to the implementation of the Scope of Work as more 
specifically defined in Exhibit C, “Definitions of Eligible Costs for 
Reimbursement,” which is attached to this agreement and incorporated 
herein by this reference;
iii.
Sponsor staff time for Scope of Work implementation, limited to 
documented direct hourly labor charges (salaries, wages, and benefits); 
and
iv.
Project administration costs, which are limited to 5% of the Measure A 
Funds committed to the Scope of Work under this Agreement.  Such costs 
are further limited to costs associated with accounting, progress/ status 
351 of 662

--- page 352 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
5
18009762.6 
monitoring and reporting as required under this Agreement; and invoicing 
for Measure A Highway funds for the Scope of Work under this 
Agreement.  
b.
The following costs are not eligible for Measure A Highway Funds 
reimbursement: 
i.
Sponsor’s costs which are unrelated to the Scope of Work; 
ii.
Costs for entering into this Agreement; 
iii.
Maintenance, rehabilitation, routine operations of the Project or other 
facilities or programs; and
iv.
Development of proposals, applications, or agreements for Measure A or 
other funding programs.  
c.
Eligible costs are defined in greater detail in Exhibit C, “Definitions of Eligible 
Costs for Reimbursement.” If Sponsor wishes to undertake items of work not 
covered under the Scope of Work concurrent with performing the Scope of Work, 
the cost for including and undertaking the additional work shall be segregated, 
and the costs borne exclusively by the Sponsor from a non-Measure A Highway 
Program funding source(s). In the event that an activity is not listed in Exhibit C, 
but Sponsor believes that it is an eligible cost, Sponsor may request that the TA 
consider reimbursing the Sponsor for the activity. The TA will have sole 
discretion to grant or deny Sponsor's requests. 
d.
Sponsor agrees that it shall use funds provided pursuant to this Agreement to 
supplement existing revenue. Sponsor will not use Measure A Funds to replace 
other local taxes or revenues already programmed and available for use for the 
same purpose. Sponsor will use funds provided pursuant to this Agreement only 
for the Scope of Work.  
If the TA determines that Sponsor has Measure A Funds other than for the 
approved Scope of Work, the TA will notify Sponsor of its determination.  Within 
thirty (30) days of notification of the TA’s determination Sponsor will either (a) 
repay such funds to the TA, or (b) explain in writing how the funds in question 
were spent for the approved Scope of Work. The TA will respond within thirty 
(30) days of receipt. Unless otherwise stated in the response, the TA's response 
will be final,  and Sponsor will repay any funds used other than for the approved 
scope of work within thirty (30) days.  
2.3 Reimbursement Basis.  Sponsor may seek pro rata reimbursement for Scope of Work 
Costs incurred on or after the Execution Date.  Scope of Work Costs must be incurred 
and paid by Sponsor prior to requesting pro rata reimbursement from the TA.  Sufficient 
documentation must accompany all requests for pro rata reimbursement, including the 
submittal of all due quarterly progress reports.  
2.4 Accounting and Request for Reimbursement Procedures.  Sponsor, in coordination 
with and to the satisfaction of the TA, will establish procedures for Scope of Work 
accounting and requests for reimbursement. These procedures will track and reflect the 
accumulation of the TA’s pro rata share of Scope of Work Costs.  Sponsor will detail the 
TA’s pro rata share of Scope of Work costs for all work funded under this Agreement 
352 of 662

--- page 353 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
6
18009762.6 
with each “Reimbursement Claim Form,” which is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit 
D and incorporated herein. Sponsor will maintain all necessary books and records in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
2.5 Invoices; Payments
a.
Sponsor must prepare and submit billing statements consistent with the 
Reimbursement Claim Form with all required supporting documentation. 
Supporting documentation may include, but is not limited to, copies of vendor 
invoices, timesheets, backup documentation, checks, and payment advice, and 
must include an accounting of the TA’s share of costs for the Scope of Work as 
contemplated by this Agreement.  
b.
For any property acquisitions for which Sponsor seeks reimbursement from the 
TA, Sponsor must provide the following supporting documentation for each 
property:
i.
Copies of the final real estate appraisal and any appraisal review 
conducted on behalf of Sponsor; 
ii.
For any right-of-way activities involving property on the Caltrans right-of-
way, written confirmation that the acquisition process was conducted in 
accordance with the then-current version of the Caltrans Right-of-Way 
manual;
iii.
A Phase One Environmental Assessment and any recommended additional 
testing (unless waived by the TA);
iv.
Copy of the offer package provided to the property owner(s);
v.
Copy of the Notice of Exemption or other required document for 
environmental clearance under CEQA/NEPA for the purchase of the 
property, and evidence of the date of filing such Notice; and
vi.
Written justification acceptable to the TA of any settlement at an amount 
higher than the offer. 
c.
For each voluntary real property transaction, Sponsor must also provide:
i.
Copy of the fully executed purchase and sale agreement;
ii.
Copy of an executed and recorded deed [in a form consistent with the 
requirements set forth in the then-current Caltrans Right-of-Way manual];
iii.
Copy of the Policy of Title insurance; and
iv.
Copy of the final closing statement from the escrow.
d.
For each real property acquisition undertaken through condemnation, Sponsor 
must also provide:
e.
Copy of the recorded Final Order of Condemnation; and
f.
Copy of the litigation guarantee issued by a title insurer. 
g.
Sponsor must detail the tasks performed, associated costs and the TA’s pro rata 
share of Scope of Work Costs with each Reimbursement Claim Form.  
h.
The TA will endeavor to disburse reimbursements for approved Scope of Work 
Costs within thirty (30) days after the TA’s approval of each claim, subject to the 
limits on the TA’s maximum contribution as established in Section 2.1.  The TA’s 
obligation to reimburse Scope of Work Costs to Sponsor as provided in this 
Section is conditioned upon the TA’s prompt receipt of quarterly progress reports 
from Sponsor pursuant to section 1.4 above.
353 of 662

--- page 354 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
7
18009762.6 
i.
Invoices may be submitted, no more frequently than once a month, by mail to:
Accounts Payable
San Mateo County Transportation Authority
1250 San Carlos Avenue
San Carlos, CA 94070
Or by email to: accountspayable@samtrans.com 
SECTION 3: Term
3.1 Term.  The term of this Agreement will commence on Execution Date and conclude 
upon the earliest of: (a) termination by Sponsor pursuant to this Section 3, (b) termination 
by the TA pursuant to this Section 3, or (c) December 30, 2027. 
3.2 Sponsor’s Right to Terminate; Repayment upon Termination.  Sponsor may at any 
time terminate the Scope of Work by giving ten (10) days; written notice to the TA of its 
election to do so.  Upon such termination, Sponsor will not be reimbursed for any further 
Scope of Work Costs and will reimburse the TA for all monies paid by the TA and costs 
incurred by the TA in connection with the Scope of Work as well as all reasonable costs 
and expenses incurred to effect such termination within ninety (90) days of the TA’s 
submission to Sponsor of a detailed statement of such payments and costs.
3.3 Termination by the TA.  The TA may terminate this Agreement, with or without cause, 
by giving ten (10) days' written notice of such termination. If the TA terminates the 
Agreement for Sponsor’s default, Sponsor will reimburse the TA for all funds paid to 
Sponsor in connection with the Scope of Work, and for all costs incurred by the TA in 
connection with the Scope of Work as well as all reasonable costs and expenses incurred 
to effect such termination, within ninety (90) days of the TA’s submission to Sponsor of a 
detailed statement of such payments and costs. If the TA terminates the Agreement for 
convenience, the TA is obligated to pay to Sponsor all costs and expenses incurred by 
Sponsor up to the date of notice of termination, as well as all reasonable costs and 
expenses incurred to effect such termination.
3.4 Expiration/Suspension of TA’s Financial Obligations.  Any and all financial 
obligations of the TA pursuant to this Agreement expire upon the expenditure of TA’s 
maximum contribution to the Scope of Work as established in Section 2.1 above or the 
conclusion of the Term as defined in Section 3.1, whichever occurs first.  The TA 
reserves the right to suspend its financial obligation, with ten (10) days' advanced notice, 
if Sponsor identifies a risk of not being able to complete the Scope of Work within 
budget. If Sponsor cannot provide a credible funding plan acceptable to the TA to fund 
and complete Scope of Work, the TA may terminate this agreement.  If Sponsor identifies 
a risk of not being able to complete the Scope of Work within budget, failure to report 
such risk to the TA constitutes default and is cause for termination under Section 3.3.
3.5 Time of Performance.  The Scope of Work must be completed no later than December 
30, 2027.  
354 of 662

--- page 355 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
8
18009762.6 
3.6 Time Extension.  If the Scope of Work cannot be completed within the Time of 
Performance as defined in Section 3.5, Sponsor must submit a request in writing to the 
TA no later than six (6) months before the Time of Performance for an extension for the 
Time of Performance.  The TA will review the request, and grant the extension if it is 
justified in TA’s sole and complete discretion.  Costs incurred for the Scope of Work 
after the Time of Performance are at risk of denial for reimbursement by the TA. The 
unreimbursed portion of the Measure A allocation will be retained by the TA for the 
Measure A Highway Program.  
SECTION 4: Indemnification and Insurance
4.1 Indemnity by Sponsor
a.
Sponsor shall indemnify, keep and save harmless the TA and its directors, 
officers, agents and employees against any and all suits, claims or actions related 
to the performance of the Scope of Work or the Project including, but not  limited 
to, those arising out of any of the following:
i.
Any injury to persons or property that may occur, or that may be alleged 
to have occurred, arising from the performance of the Project or 
implementation of this Agreement; or
ii.
Any allegation that materials or services developed, provided or used for 
the Project infringe or violate any copyright, trademark, patent trade 
secret, or any other intellectual-property or proprietary right of any third 
party.
b.
Sponsor further agrees to defend any and all such actions, suits or claims and pay 
all charges of attorneys and all other costs and expenses of defenses as they are 
incurred.  If any judgment is rendered, or settlement reached, against the TA or 
any of the individuals enumerated above in any such action, Sponsor shall, at its 
expense, satisfy and discharge the same.  
c.
This indemnification shall survive termination or expiration of the Agreement.  
4.2 Insurance.  For the purposes of this Insurance section, “Entity” is defined as any entity 
designing, approving designs and/ or performing the Scope of Work funded by this 
Agreement.  Entities may include Sponsor, a contractor of Sponsor, another body on 
behalf of which Sponsor submitted its funding application, and/ or a contractor of such 
other body.
All Entities will provide the appropriate insurance covering the work being performed. 
The insurance requirements specified in this section will cover each Entity’s own liability 
and any liability arising out of work or services of Entity Subcontractors, subconsultants, 
suppliers, temporary workers, independent contractors, leased employees, or any other 
persons, firms, or corporations (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Agents”) working 
on the Project.  If Sponsor itself is an Entity, Sponsor must also provide its own insurance 
meeting the requirements of this section.
355 of 662

--- page 356 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
9
18009762.6 
a.
Minimum Types and Scope of Insurance.  Each Entity is required to procure and 
maintain at its sole cost and expense insurance subject to the requirements set 
forth below. Such insurance will remain in full force and effect throughout 
performance of the Scope of Work.  All policies will be issued by insurers 
acceptable to the TA (generally with a Best’s Rating of A-10 or better). Each 
Entity is also required to assess the risks associated with work to be performed by 
Agents and to require that Agents maintain adequate insurance coverages with 
appropriate limits and endorsements to cover such risks. To the extent that its 
Agent does not procure and maintain such insurance coverage, an Entity is 
responsible for and assumes any and all costs and expenses that may be incurred 
in securing said coverage or in fulfilling Entity’s indemnity obligations as to itself 
or any of its Agents in the absence of coverage. Entities may self-insure against 
the risks associated with the Scope of Work, but in such case, waive subrogation 
in favor of the TA respecting any and all claims that may arise.
i.
Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability Insurance.  Workers’ 
Compensation coverage must meet statutory limits and Employer's 
Liability Insurance must have minimum limits of $1,000,000. Insurance 
must include a waiver of subrogation in favor of the TA.  
ii.
Commercial General Liability Insurance.  The limit for Commercial 
General Liability Insurance in each contract and subcontract cannot be less 
than $1,000,000. Commercial General Liability Insurance must be primary 
to any other insurance, name the TA as an Additional Insured, include a 
Separation of Interests endorsement and include a Waiver of Subrogation 
in favor of the TA.
iii.
Business Automobile Liability Insurance.  The limit for Business 
Automobile Liability Insurance in each contract and subcontract cannot be 
less than $1,000,000. Insurance must cover all owned, non-owned and 
hired autos, and include a Waiver of Subrogation in favor of the TA
iv.
Property Insurance.  Property Insurance must cover an Entity’s and/or 
Agent’s own equipment as well as any materials to be installed.  Property 
Insurance must include a Waiver of Subrogation in favor of the TA
v.
Professional Liability Insurance.  If deemed appropriate by Sponsor or an 
Entity in consideration of the work required for the Project, insurance 
should cover each Entity’s and any Agent’s professional work on the 
Project.  The limit for Professional Liability Insurance in each appropriate 
contract and subcontract should not be less than $1,000,000.
vi.
Contractors' Pollution Liability Insurance and/ or Environmental Liability 
Insurance. If deemed appropriate by Sponsor or an Entity in consideration 
of the work required for the Project, insurance should cover potential 
pollution or environmental contamination or accidents. The limit for 
Pollution and or Environmental Liability Insurance in each appropriate 
contract and subcontract should not be less than $1,000,000. Such 
insurance must name the TA as an Additional Insured and include a 
Waiver of Subrogation in favor of the TA.
356 of 662

--- page 357 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
10
18009762.6 
vii.
Railroad Protective Liability Insurance.  Insurance is required if the 
Project will include any construction or demolition work within 50 feet of 
railroad tracks. The limit for Railroad Protective Liability Insurance in 
each appropriate contract and subcontract cannot be less than $2 million 
per occurrence and $6 million annual aggregate.  
b.
Excess or Umbrella Coverage.  Sponsor and/ or any other Entity may opt to 
procure excess or umbrella coverage to meet the above requirements, but in such 
case, these policies must also satisfy all specified endorsements and stipulations 
for the underlying coverages and include provisions that the policy holder’s 
insurance is to be primary without any right of contribution from the TA.
c.
Deductibles and Retentions.  Sponsor must ensure that deductibles or retentions 
on any of the above insurance policies are paid without right of contribution from 
the TA. Deductible and retention provisions cannot contain any restrictions as to 
how or by whom the deductible or retention is paid. Any deductible or retention 
provision limiting payment to the named insured is unacceptable.
In the event that any policy contains a deductible or self-insured retention, and in 
the event that the TA seeks coverage under such policy as an additional insured, 
Sponsor will ensure that the policy holder satisfies such deductible to the extent of 
loss covered by such policy for a lawsuit arising from or connected with any 
alleged act or omission of the Entity or Agents, even if neither the Entity nor 
Agents are named defendants in the lawsuit.
d.
Claims Made Coverage.  If any insurance specified above is provided on a claim-
made basis, then in addition to coverage requirements above, such policy must 
provide that:
i.
Policy retroactive date coincides with or precedes the Entity’s start of 
work (including subsequent policies purchased as renewals or 
replacements).  
ii.
 Entity will make every effort to maintain similar insurance for at least 
three (3) years following Project completion, including the requirement of 
adding all additional insureds.  
iii.
If insurance is terminated for any reason, each Entity agrees to purchase 
an extended reporting provision of at least three (3) years to report claims 
arising from work performed in connection with this Agreement.  
iv.
Policy allows for reporting of circumstances or incidents that might give 
rise to future claims.
e.
Failure to Procure Adequate Insurance.  Failure by any Entity to procure 
sufficient insurance to financially support Section 4.1, Indemnity by Sponsor, of 
this Agreement does not excuse Sponsor from meeting all obligations of Section 
4.1 and the remainder of this Agreement, generally.
357 of 662

--- page 358 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
11
18009762.6 
f.
Prior to beginning work under this Agreement, Sponsor must obtain, and produce 
upon request of the TA, satisfactory evidence of compliance with the insurance 
requirements of this section.
SECTION 5: Miscellaneous
5.1 Notices.  All notices required or permitted to be given under this Agreement, excluding 
progress reports, the final report, and invoices, must be in writing and mailed postage 
prepaid by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal delivery or 
overnight courier to the appropriate address indicated below or at such other place(s) that 
either Party may designate in written notice to the other. Notices are deemed received 
upon delivery if personally served, one (1) day after mailing if delivered via overnight 
courier, or two (2) days after mailing if mailed as provided above.
To TA: 
San Mateo County Transportation Authority
1250 San Carlos Avenue
P. O. Box 3006
San Carlos, CA 94070-1306
To Sponsor:
City of San Mateo
Attn: Tina Pham, Senior Engineer
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403 
5.2 No Waiver.  No waiver of any default or breach of any covenant of this Agreement by 
either Party will be implied from any omission by either Party to take action on account 
of such default if such default persists or is repeated. Express waivers are limited in scope 
and duration to their express provisions. Consent to one action does not imply consent to 
any future action.
5.3 Assignment. Parties are prohibited from assigning, transferring or otherwise substituting 
their interests or obligations under this Agreement without the written consent of all other 
Parties.  
5.4 Governing Law.  This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of California as 
applied to contracts that are made and performed entirely in California.
5.5 Compliance with Laws.  In performance of this Agreement, the Parties must comply 
with all applicable Federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances.
5.6 Modifications. This Agreement may only be modified in writing executed by both 
Parties.  
358 of 662

--- page 359 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
12
18009762.6 
5.7 Attorneys’ Fees.  In the event legal proceedings are instituted to enforce any provision of 
this Agreement, the prevailing Party in said proceedings is entitled to its costs, including 
reasonable attorneys’ fees.
5.8 Relationship of the Parties.  It is understood that this is an Agreement by and between 
Independent Contractors and does not create the relationship of agent, servant employee, 
partnership, joint venture or association, or any other relationship other than that of 
Independent Contractor.  
5.9 Ownership of Work.  All reports, designs, drawings, plans, specifications, schedules, 
studies, memoranda, and other documents assembled for or prepared by or for, in the 
process of being assembled or prepared by or for, or furnished to Sponsor under this 
Agreement are the joint property of the TA and Sponsor, and will not be destroyed 
without the prior written consent of the TA.  The TA is entitled to copies and access to 
these materials during the progress of the Project and upon completion or termination of 
the Project or this Agreement.  Sponsor may retain a copy of all material produced under 
this Agreement for its use in its general activities.  This Section does not preclude 
additional shared ownership of work with other entities under contract with Sponsor for 
funding of the Project.  
5.10Non-discrimination.  Sponsor and any contractors performing services on behalf of 
Sponsor will not discriminate or permit discrimination against any person or group of 
persons on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, age, sex, sexual 
orientation, marital status, pregnancy, childbirth or related conditions, medical 
condition, mental or physical disability or veteran’s status, or in any manner prohibited 
by federal, state or local laws.  
5.11Accessibility of Services to Persons with Disabilities.  The Project implementation 
must comply with, and not subject the TA or Sponsor to liability under, the Americans 
with Disabilities Act, the California Disabled Persons Act, or any other state or federal 
laws protecting the rights of persons with disabilities.
5.12Warranty of Authority to Execute Agreement.  Each Party to this Agreement 
represents and warrants that each person whose signature appears hereon is authorized 
and has the full authority to execute this Agreement on behalf of the entity that is a Party 
to this Agreement.  
5.13Severability.  If any portion of this Agreement, or the application thereof is held by a 
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remaining 
portions of this Agreement, or the application thereof, will remain in full force and 
effect.  
5.14Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts.  
5.15Attribution to the TA.  Sponsor must include attribution that indicates work was 
funded with Measure A Funds from the TA.  This provision applies to any project, or 
359 of 662

--- page 360 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
13
18009762.6 
publication, that was funded in part or in whole by Measure A Funds. Acceptable forms 
of attribution include TA branding on Project-related documents, construction signs, 
public information materials, and any other applicable documents.  
5.16Entire Agreement.  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the 
Parties pertaining to its subject matter and supersedes any prior or contemporaneous 
written or oral agreement between the Parties on the same subject.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have hereunder subscribed their names the day and year 
first written above.
SAN MATEO COUNTY TRANSPORTATION 
AUTHORITY
By:  ___________________________________
Name: Carter Mau
Its:   
Acting Executive Director
APPROVED AS TO FORM
By: ___________________________________
Name: ________________________________
Its:   
Legal Counsel for the TA
CITY OF SAN MATEO
By:  ___________________________________
Name: _______________________________
Its:
_______________________________
APPROVED AS TO FORM
By:  ___________________________________
Name: ________________________________
Its:   
Legal Counsel for the City of San Mateo
Exhibit A: Scope of Work Information
Exhibit B: Progress Reporting Template
Exhibit C: Permissible Costs for Reimbursement
Exhibit D: Reimbursement Claim Form
360 of 662

--- page 361 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
14
18009762.6 
EXHIBIT A-1: SCOPE OF WORK INFORMATION
State Route 92/El Camino Real Interchange Project – Landscaping Phase
Sponsoring Agency: 
City of San Mateo
Contact:
Tina Pham, Senior Engineer
City of San Mateo Public Works Department
330 W 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
(650)522-7300
tpham@cityofsanmateo.org
Implementing Agency: 
Same as above
Contact: 
Same as above
Overall Project Description: 
The TA contributed a total of $18.4 million for the environmental, design, and construction 
phases of the Project to reconfigure the SR 92/SR 82 highway interchange, which were 
completed during December 2018, with $1.35 million left unspent.  The remainder of the Project 
consists of landscape restoration and improvements the interchange limits. The landscaping 
construction phase includes clearing and grubbing, light grading and contouring, ground cover 
and tree planting, irrigation improvements, and 5 years of plant establishment period (PEP).  The 
overall Scope of Work cost is estimated to be approximately $1.997 million.   
Measure A Funded Scope of Work:
The Measure A Funds associated with this funding agreement will be a part of the total funding 
needed to complete the construction of the landscaping phase of the Project.  
Scope of Work Estimated Schedule: 
Begin
End
Planning Study
(COMPLETED)
Project Initiation Document
(COMPLETED)
Environmental Review
(COMPLETED)
Landscaping Design
07/2017
02/2022
Right of Way
N/A
N/A
Landscaping Construction
09/2022
12/2027
Including Plant Establishment
Scope of Work Budget/Source of Funding:
Include funding plan for scope of work defined above, including use of TA staff and/or consultant support if applicable.  
Other Sources*
Task/Activity
Measure A 
Funding Amount
Fund Source
Amount
Total
Landscaping Construction
$1,350,000
Local (Private Dev-Fee)
$647,000
$1,997,000
Total
$1,350,000
$647,000
$1,997,000
*The other fund sources are provided for information purposes.  
Cash Flow Projection Measure A funds only
361 of 662

--- page 362 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
15
18009762.6 
The cash flow projection is provided for informational purposes only.  
FY22
FY23
Task/Activity
1st Quarter
(Jul 1-Sept 30)
2021
2nd  Quarter
(Oct 1-Dec 31)
2021
3rd  Quarter
(Jan 1-Mar 31)
2022
4th  Quarter
(Apr 1-Jun 30)
2022
Subtotal
FY22
1st Quarter
(Jul 1-Sept 30)
2022
2nd  Quarter
(Oct 1-Dec 31)
2022
3rd  Quarter
(Jan 1-Mar 31)
2023
4th  Quarter
(Apr 1-Jun 30)
2023
Subtotal
FY23
Project Study 
Report
$0
$0
Environmental
$0
$0
Right-of-Way
$0
$0
PS&E
$0
$0
Construction
$0
$337,500
$675,000
$239,500
$53,000
$1,305,000
Other: 
$0
$0
Total
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$337,500
$675,000
$239,500
$53,000
$1,305,000
Cumulative to 
Date
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
$337,500
$1,012,500
$1,252,000
$1,305,000
$1,305,000
FY24
FY25
Task/Activity
1st Quarter
(Jul 1-Sept 30)
2023
2nd  Quarter
(Oct 1-Dec 31)
2023
3rd  Quarter
(Jan 1-Mar 31)
2024
4th  Quarter
(Apr 1-Jun 30)
2024
Subtotal
FY24
1st Quarter
(Jul 1-Sept 30)
2024
2nd  Quarter
(Oct 1-Dec 31)
2024
3rd  Quarter
(Jan 1-Mar 31)
2025
4th  Quarter
(Apr 1-Jun 30)
2025
Subtotal
FY25
Project Study 
Report
$0
$0
Environmental
$0
$0
Right-of-Way
$0
$0
PS&E
$0
$0
Construction
$15,000
$15,000
$15,000
$15,000
Other: 
$0
$0
Total
$0
$15,000
$0
$0
$15,000
$0
$15,000
$0
$0
$15,000
Cumulative to 
Date
$0
$1,320,000
$0
$0
$1,320,000
$0
$1,335,000
$0
$0
$1,335,000
FY26
FY27-28
Task/Activity
1st Quarter
(Jul 1-Sept 30)
2025
2nd  Quarter
(Oct 1-Dec 31)
2025
3rd  Quarter
(Jan 1-Mar 31)
2026
4th  Quarter
(Apr 1-Jun 30)
2026
Subtotal
FY26
1st Quarter
2nd  Quarter
3rd  Quarter
4th  
Quarter
Subtotal
FY27/28
Project Study 
Report
$0
$0
Environmental
$0
$0
Right-of-Way
$0
$0
PS&E
$0
$0
Construction
$15,000
$15,000
$0
Other: 
$0
$0
Total
$0
$15,000
$0
$0
$15,000
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
Cumulative to 
Date
$0
$1,350,000
$0
$0
$1,350,000
$0
$0
$0
$0
$0
Operating Responsibility: Caltrans
Maintenance Responsibility: Caltrans 
Scope of Work Implementation Responsibility: City of San Mateo
Scope of Work Oversight Responsibility: Caltrans 
362 of 662

--- page 363 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
16
18009762.6 
EXHIBIT B: PROGRESS REPORTING TEMPLATE
REPORTING PERIOD: FROM mm/dd/yyyy TO mm/dd/yyyy
SMCTA Project # 00XXX – [Project Title/Phases]
[Carryover to additional pages as necessary]
Contact:  [Name, Title, Phone, email, address]
1) Scope: 
[Describe Scope of Work here.  Specify Project limits, phases of the Project.  Identify the Measure A funded components.]
Status Summary: [Provide Status.]
Issues: [List any issues, i.e., potential scope changes.]
2) Schedule: 
Original Baseline
Current Baseline
Current Forecast
Major Milestones: 
Start
Finish
Start
Finish
Start
Finish
[Activity]
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
[Activity]
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
[Activity]
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
[Activity]
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
mm/dd/yy
Progress This Reporting Period: [Describe progress and activities]
Measure A Funds Expended This Reporting Period: $ 
Future Activities, Next Reporting Period: [Describe planned future  activities]
Projected Measure A Funds Expenditure Next Reporting Period: $
Issues: [List any issues, such as impacts to schedule]
363 of 662

--- page 364 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
17
18009762.6 
3) Scope of Work Total Budget: 
A
B
C
D
E
F
Phase/Activity 
Original Budget 
(per Funding 
Agreement)
Updated 
Cost 
Estimate
Total Change 
from Approved 
(B-A)
Total 
Expended 
to Date
% of Revised 
Budget Expended 
(D/B)
% of 
Work 
Completed
-
0.00%
0.00%
-
0.00%
0.00%
-
0.00%
0.00%
Total Project
-
-
-
-
#DIV/0!
4) Scope of Work Measure A Budget: 
A
B
C
D
E
F
Phase/Activity 
Original 
Measure A 
allocation
(per Funding 
Agreement)
Current 
Measure A 
allocation
Change in 
Measure A 
allocation from 
Approved/Funding 
Agmt
(B-A)
Total 
Measure 
A 
Expended 
to Date
% of current 
Measure A 
allocation  
Expended 
(D/B)
% of 
Work 
Completed
#DIV/0!
#DIV/0!
#DIV/0!
Total Project
$0
$0
$0
$0
#DIV/0!
Issues: [List any issues, i.e. potential cost increases)
5) Funding: [List additional sources as needed.  Fill out the following matrix for each phase for the Scope of Work, i.e. 
environmental, design, etc.]
Original
Original %
Current
Current %
Estimated at 
Completion
Estimated at 
Completion %
Contribution
Contribution
Contribution
SMCTA
#DIV/0!
#DIV/0!
#DIV/0!
Others:
Federal (specify) 
-
#DIV/0!
-
#DIV/0!
-
#DIV/0!
State (specify)
Other (specify)
Total: 
-
#DIV/0!
-
#DIV/0!
-
#DIV/0!
Issues: [List any issues, such as changes in non-Measure A funding)
Submit Progress Reports To:
xxxxx@samtrans.com or
SMCTA
Planning & Development
1250 San Carlos Avenue
San Carlos, CA 94070
364 of 662

--- page 365 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
18
18009762.6 
EXHIBIT C: DEFINITIONS OF ELIGIBLE COSTS FOR REIMBURSEMENT
Project Initiation Documents (PID) – Activities necessary to complete PIDs covered under the 
Scope of Work.  
Environmental Studies – environmental studies costs, including determination of the 
appropriate environmental document, preparation of all preliminary engineering for each 
alternative, including geomantic layouts, determination of right-of-way needs, environmental 
technical studies (such as air, noise, energy, cultural resources and hazardous waste), and all 
other studies or activities necessary to prepare an finalize the appropriate documents for project 
an environmental approval.
Design – Design activities such as preparation of design studies; Materials and foundation 
reports; Drainage, hydrology and hydraulic reports: surveying and mapping; Preparation of the 
plans, specifications and estimate; Preparation of bid documents and project file; Preparation of 
permit applications and maintenance agreement; Coordination of agency reviews in any other 
activities necessary to prepare final plans, specifications, and estimate (PS&E) for bid 
advertisement and award; An management oversight of these tasks except as limited in section 
2.2 of the Agreement.  
Right-of-Way Acquisition – All activities related to right-of-way including determination of 
right-of-way needs; Title searches; Preparation of appraisal maps, legal descriptions and plat 
maps; Parcel appraisals and appraisal reviews; Hazardous materials-testing and analysis; 
preparation of right-of-way acquisition documents; activities involved with acquiring rights-of-
way including negotiation with property owners an cost associated with condemnation 
proceedings (including legal costs, expert witness costs, etc., but not including costs related to 
claims for inverse condemnation), right-of-way capital costs and cost-to-sure impacts related to 
the acquisition. To the extent allowed by law, Sponsor shall undertake all best efforts so that 
cleanup of existing hazardous material shall remain the liability of the property owner.
Services provided for right-of-way activities involved with property not necessary for the 
Measure A Highway Program-funded Project as defined in the Scope of Work, and the 
associated costs for all such property, shall be at the sole expense of the Sponsor.  
Any property not used for construction of the Project, or used for any purpose other than 
construction of the Project as defined in the Scope of Work, should be identified and the funding 
agencies should be informed.  Any excess right-of-way Shelby identified as early as possible in 
the Project design process and sold.  The proceeds from the sale of such property shall be 
returned to the funding agencies, prorated based on the percentage of funds each agency 
contributed to the purchase of the property.
Construction – construction expenditures for the Project (construction capital, management and 
inspection, surveys, public outreach, and related activities) that are part of the Scope of Work 
agreed to by the TA.  Proposed contract change orders that may arise once a contract has been 
awarded will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the TA for approval to be reimbursed with 
365 of 662

--- page 366 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
19
18009762.6 
the Measure A Funds.  TA will require written approval of change orders over $50,000 unless 
the TA Board has previously approved otherwise.
In addition, Measure A Funds are eligible for reimbursement of Sponsor’s Project management 
oversight expenses associated with the construction of the Project.  this would include activities 
such as construction management inspection, expenses associated with reviewing proposed 
change orders, and activities involved with submitting final costs to the appropriate agencies to 
secure other leveraged funds. Expenditure of Measure A Funds remains subject to the limits set 
forth in Section 2.2 of the Agreement.  
The Sponsor may include additional work beyond the Scope of Work for the Project at its own 
expense. That EA will require these costs to be segregated from the other work expenses and 
paid for with non-Measure A Highway Program funds.  
Miscellaneous – fees from other agencies, including permit fees or reimbursement for review or 
oversight costs needed for the Project are eligible costs. However, the costs of permits or fees 
from the Project Sponsor will not be eligible. Utility relocation costs are eligible for 
reimbursement according to previous agreements establishing rights for those utilities. The costs 
for specialized equipment for testing, an analysis of production of documents for Project-related 
work are also eligible.
 
366 of 662

--- page 367 ---
San Mateo County Transportation Authority/City of San Mateo
SR 92/El Camino Real Landscaping
Funding Agreement
20
18009762.6 
EXHIBIT D
Reimbursement Claim Form
San Mateo County Measure A Funds
SMCTA Project ID:
SMCTA Project Allocation:
Claim Date:
Claim Number:
Claim Period:
Claim Amount:  $0.00
Consultant/ 
Contractor/Vendor 
Invoice 
#
Invoice 
Total
Fund 
Source
% of 
Ttl
Funding 
Source
% of 
Ttl
Prior Total
Measure A $
Life to Date
Measure A $
Measure A 
Budget 
Balance
Quarterly Progress Report included?  Y/N
Please issue check payable to: 
Agency Contact Person
Address
City, State Zip Code
367 of 662

--- page 368 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5833
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
State Route 92/El Camino Real Interchange Landscape Improvements Project – Amendment No. 2
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 2 to the agreement with BKF Engineers for the State Route 92/El Camino Real Interchange 
Landscape Improvements Project for a no-cost extension to the term of services. 
BACKGROUND:
Roadway improvements to reconfigure the State Route 92 (SR92)/El Camino (SR82) highway interchange were completed 
in August 2018 as part of a joint project between the City, San Mateo County Transportation Authority, and Caltrans. The 
next phase of the project involves restoration of landscaping within the interchange limits. The City is responsible for 
implementing the landscaping work and retained BKF Engineers in September 2019 to perform the design and develop 
construction documents for the SR 92/SR 82 Interchange Landscape Improvements Project (Project).  
The original Project schedule anticipated design completion in September 2020, but schedule for completing design work 
has been extended to accommodate an expanded public outreach process, in addition to being partially impacted by 
COVID-19 limitations and Caltrans procedural requirements.  Amendment No. 2 provides a time extension for BKF to 
provide engineering services during construction until June 30, 2024 but does not increase cost because all activity 
expenditures are still trending within existing budget.  
Staff is in the final stages of design and plans to return to Council for award of the construction contract by fall 2022.  
Completion of the construction of the Project is anticipated by summer 2023. Accordingly, staff recommends approval of 
the amendment to secure engineering support into the construction phase. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are sufficient funds in the El Camino at Highway 92 Landscape Improvements Project to fund this agreement and the 
contingency reserve.  
Caltrans will be responsible for the cost of their staff time incurred for project oversight.  San Mateo County 
Transportation Authority has allocated $1.35 million of Measure A funds to the construction of the SR92/El Camino 
Landscape Improvements Project.  The City will fund the amount in excess of the SMCTA’s contribution needed to 
complete the Project with Traffic Impact Fee funds.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action of approving Amendment No. 2 to Agreement with BKF Engineers is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is 
an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).) 
368 of 662

--- page 369 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The landscape restoration received environmental clearance when the project level initial study and negative declaration 
for the highway improvements project was approved in May 2014. Environmental clearance for the landscape work has 
been re-validated by Caltrans on September 2, 2021. 
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment No. 2
STAFF CONTACT
Jana Cadiz, Assistant Engineer
jcadiz@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7575
Tina Pham, Senior Engineer
tpham@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7305
369 of 662

--- page 370 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 9/17
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BKF ENGINEERS 
FOR PROFESSIONAL DESIGN SERVICES 
FOR EL CAMINO AT STATE ROUTE 92 LANDSCAPING IMPROVEMENTS
(#460037-46000-0552-46215)
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
BKF Engineers, a California corporation (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for Professional 
Design Services for El Camino at State Route 92 Landscaping Improvements (“Agreement”) on 
September 23, 2019; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective __________________ 
to extend the term of services as described.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 4, Term, of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on September 23, 
2019 and be completed on or about June 30, 2024.  This term of this Agreement may be 
extended by written amendment executed by the Director of Public Works and a duly 
authorized representative of Consultant.
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement. CONSULTANT 
agrees to perform the services within the time limits set forth in this task.  CITY agrees 
to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT'S 
timetable.”
2.
Exhibit A, Scope of Services, Section B, Optional Services or Tasks, Part 3, Optional Task 3  
is amended to read:
“3.  Optional Task 3 - Services during Construction

Need: Support construction phase.  

Trigger: Questions from bidders, contractors, and stakeholders on the design 
and submittals.  

Scope/Assumptions/Deliverables: 
o
Participate in construction status meetings, as needed
o
Review, resolve, and respond to requests for information, as needed  
o
Review submittals”
3.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
370 of 662

--- page 371 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and BKF Engineers executed this Agreement on 
______________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
Gordon C. Sweet, PE
Its authorized Agent
Principal/Vice President 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Natalina V. Bernardi, PE 
Principal/Vice President
371 of 662

--- page 372 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5810
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
On-Call Professional Consultant Services – Agreement Amendments
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve amendments to extend the term of individual on-call professional consultant services agreements for no 
additional costs with Wilsey Ham, WRECO, and Bellecci & Associates until June 30, 2023.
BACKGROUND:
In October 2018, Public Works staff issued a request for proposals (RFP) to select qualified firms to provide on-call 
professional consulting services. The City received proposals from thirteen (13) firms and evaluated the proposals based 
on the consultant’s project understanding, experience with similar projects, quality of project manager, and technical 
ability of key staff. Staff short-listed three firms and conducted in-person interviews each project team. The on-call 
engineering consulting firms selected by staff are Wilsey Ham, Inc., WRECO, Inc., and Bellecci & Associates, Inc (collectively 
“consultants”).
On February 19, 2019, City Council authorized Public Works to enter into an agreement with each consultant for on-call 
professional consulting services not to exceed $250,000. The consultants have been responsive to City staff in providing 
the desired engineering expertise for capital improvement projects. There is remaining budget in the agreements, and 
staff has determined that the consultants’ services are still needed to assist the City in implementing capital improvement 
projects. Amendment No. 1 for each of the three agreements will extend the term of their agreements until June 30, 2023, 
but does not increase the overall budget of each agreement.
Staff will continue to develop specific project task orders, scopes of work, and budgets with each firm for work efforts 
performed as part of the on-call services agreement and recommends Council approve the agreement amendments.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Each consultant will be issued a blanket purchase order in an amount not to exceed $250,000. The individual
capital improvement projects will fund the respective task orders. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The approval of no-cost agreement extensions is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative government activity which will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
372 of 662

--- page 373 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Amendment 1 – Wilsey Ham
Att 2 – Amendment 1 – WRECO | HDR
Att 3 – Amendment 1 – Bellecci & Associates
STAFF CONTACT
Tina Pham, Senior Engineer 
tpham@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7305 
Matthew Zucca, Deputy Director 
mzucca@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7308
373 of 662

--- page 374 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 9/17
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND WILSEY HAM 
FOR ON-CALL PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR VARIOUS CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Wilsey Ham, a California corporation (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for On-Call 
Professional Consultant Services for Various Capital Improvement Projects (“Agreement”) on April 1, 
2019; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective __________________ 
to extend the term of services as described.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 7 - Term, Progress and Completion of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 1, 2019 
and be completed on or about June 30, 2023.  This term of this Agreement may be 
extended by written amendment executed by the Director of Public Works and a duly 
authorized representative of Consultant.
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement. CONSULTANT 
agrees to perform the services within the time limits set forth in each task order.  CITY 
agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT'S 
timetable.”
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
374 of 662

--- page 375 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Wilsey Ham executed this Agreement on 
______________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
Jeff Peterson
Its authorized Agent
President
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Name
Title
375 of 662

--- page 376 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 9/17
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND WRECO 
FOR ON-CALL PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR VARIOUS CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
WRECO, a California corporation (“WRECO”) entered into an Agreement for On-Call Professional 
Consultant Services for Various Capital Improvement Projects (“Agreement”) on April 1, 2019; and
WHEREAS, HDR Engineering, Inc., a corporation, with offices at 1243 Alpine Road, Suite 108, 
Walnut Creek, CA 94596 (“HDR”) acquired WRECO and assumed the agreement, effective July 31, 
2021, and now does business as HDR|WRECO (“Consultant”). 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective __________________ 
to extend the term of services as described.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 7 - Term, Progress and Completion of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 1, 2019 
and be completed on or about June 30, 2023.  This term of this Agreement may be 
extended by written amendment executed by the Director of Public Works and a duly 
authorized representative of Consultant.
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement. CONSULTANT 
agrees to perform the services within the time limits set forth in each task order.  CITY 
agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT'S 
timetable.”
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
376 of 662

--- page 377 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and HDR Engineering Inc. executed this Agreement on 
______________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
Han-Bin Liang, PhD
Vice President
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Name
Title
377 of 662

--- page 378 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 9/17
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND BELLECCI & ASSOCIATES 
FOR ON-CALL PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR VARIOUS CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
Bellecci & Associates, a California corporation (“Consultant”), entered into an Agreement for On-Call 
Professional Consultant Services for Various Capital Improvement Projects (“Agreement”) on April 18, 
2019; and
WHEREAS, City and Consultant wish to amend the Agreement effective __________________ 
to extend the term of services as described.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1.
Section 7 - Term, Progress and Completion of the Agreement is amended to read:
“The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on April 18, 2019 
and be completed on or about June 30, 2023.  This term of this Agreement may be 
extended by written amendment executed by the Director of Public Works and a duly 
authorized representative of Consultant.
It is understood and agreed that time is of the essence of this Agreement. CONSULTANT 
agrees to perform the services within the time limits set forth in each task order.  CITY 
agrees to exercise due diligence in performing its tasks to implement the CONSULTANT'S 
timetable.”
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
378 of 662

--- page 379 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 9/17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Bellecci & Associates executed this Agreement on 
______________________.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONSULTANT
Azalea Mitch
Public Works Director
Frank Bellecci
Its authorized Agent
President
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below.
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER 
(if necessary per the above)
Name
Title
379 of 662

--- page 380 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5838
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Off-Site Plan Review Services – Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 1 to the Professional Consultant Services Agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. for off-site plan 
review services in the amount of $100,000, for a new contract total of $199,000, and authorize the Community 
Development Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
On August 12, 2021, the City Manager approved an agreement with CSG Consultants, Inc. (CSG) for Off-Site Plan Review 
Services in an amount not-to-exceed $99,000. The services CSG provides include the review of plans, calculations, and 
reports for compliance with adopted building codes and the provision of technical advice, reports, and correspondence to 
staff related to plan check services. These specialized services are typically provided by a structural engineer, and due to 
the consistently high volume of plan submittals and ongoing staff constraints, the Community Development Department 
(CDD) has exhausted the contracted amount more quickly than anticipated. This amendment will allow CDD to maintain 
current levels of service for the remainder of the current fiscal year.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The additional $100,000 in costs resulting from this amendment can be absorbed within the fiscal year 2021-22 
operational budget for the Community Development Department.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This amendment to a professional services agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment
STAFF CONTACT
Michael Titsworth, Building Official
mtitsworth@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7195
380 of 662

--- page 381 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 1 of 2
Rev 7/21
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE AGREEMENT FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND
CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. FOR
OFF-SITE PLAN REVIEW
($99,000 [Original Amount] $100,000 [added amount])
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State of California, and 
CSG CONSULTANTS, INC. (“CONSULTANT”), entered into an Agreement for Professional Consultant 
Services (“Agreement”) on August 12, 2021; and
WHEREAS, City and CONSULTANT wish to amend the Agreement effective 
___________________ to increase the not to exceed amount to $199,000. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
1. 
Section 5 - Payment of the Agreement is amended to read:
Payment shall be made by City only for services rendered and upon submission of a 
payment request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed within 30 
days of receipt of CONSULTANT’s invoice. In consideration for the full performance of 
the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
not to exceed $199,000, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B to this Agreement, 
attached and incorporated by reference.
2.
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
381 of 662

--- page 382 ---
Contract Amendment
Page 2 of 2
Rev 7/21
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and 4LEAF, INC. have executed this Agreement on 
___________________ .
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CONTRACTOR
Christina Horrisberger
Community Development Director
Date
Cyrus Kianpour, P.E., P.L.S.
President
CSG Consultants, Inc.
Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Gabrielle Whelan
Assistant City Attorney
Date
382 of 662

--- page 383 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  16
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5857
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Management Upgrade and Expansion Project – Detroit 
Drive Public Right-of-Way Easement Dedication
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to dedicate a Public Right-of-Way Easement for the Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade and 
Expansion Project at the adjacent northern section of Detroit Drive in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo (City) is currently under a Regional Water Quality Control Board Cease and Desist Order 
requiring improvements to its collection system and Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) to eliminate sanitary 
sewer overflows and unauthorized discharges of untreated or partially treated wastewater to San Francisco Bay. 
The Clean Water Program (CWP) includes several capital improvement projects that are currently under design 
and construction and are intended to comply with the Cease and Desist Order. Specifically, the WWTP Upgrade 
and Expansion Project (Project) consists of new facilities, including headworks, primary clarifiers, secondary 
treatment basins, membrane filtration, and a dedicated wet weather treatment system. Construction of the 
Project has been underway since May 2019 and is anticipated to be complete in August 2024.
As part of the Project, Pacific Gas & Electric Company (PG&E) and AT&T Incorporated (AT&T) are required to 
relocate their existing utilities (located in a joint trench) from a section of Detroit Drive that will be abandoned to 
accommodate the WWTP expansion and subsequently be inside the fence line of the new WWTP. PG&E as the 
lead joint trench agency will be executing this work in accordance with their Franchise Agreement with the City 
and at no cost to the City. To fulfill this work, both entities will install new utilities in the public street, along the 
west, north, and east sections of Detroit Drive, all of which is City-owned property. Only the west and east 
sections of Detroit Drive have existing Public Right-of-Way (ROW), which allows external utility entities to install 
and maintain new facilities. PG&E notified City staff that it requires a Public ROW for the north section of Detroit 
Drive for their facilities before they can schedule construction of the new facilities.
Based on discussions with the City’s Planning Department and the City Attorney’s Office, staff has determined that 
dedication of a Public ROW Easement for the north section of Detroit Drive is most suitable as it allows continued 
use of Detroit Drive as a public street as well as for external utility entities including PG&E and AT&T to install new 
facilities, as necessary. The easement area will be approximately 29,000 square feet, as shown in the attached 
Legal Description and Plat. Dedicating the Public ROW Easement on Detroit Drive will allow PG&E and AT&T to 
construct, operate, and maintain their facilities to provide service to the WWTP and surrounding customers.
After PG&E and AT&T have completed the installation of new electrical and telecommunication facilities in Detroit 
Drive and subsequent demolition of existing utilities inside the WWTP fence line, the City’s contractor, Sundt 
383 of 662

--- page 384 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Construction Inc., will be able to continue construction of the Project in the newly abandoned section of Detroit 
Drive inside the WWTP.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Dedicating the proposed public ROW easement on Detroit Drive has no impacts to the project budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The City prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) (SCH No. 2015032006). The PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016. In 
accordance with CEQA, the Final PEIR serves as the primary environmental compliance document for 
implementation of the CWP. The City prepared Addenda to the Final PEIR that were approved on July 16, 2018 
(Addendum 1) and April 15, 2019 (Addendum 2). This work is within the scope of the project evaluated in the PEIR 
and Addenda.
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15061(b)(3), approving the dedication of a Public Right-of-Way 
Easement is exempt from CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that approving the dedication of a Public 
Right-of-Way Easement will not have a significant effect on the environment, because Detroit Drive is already used 
as a public street.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A to the Resolution – Approval of Public Right-of-Way Easement Dedication 
Exhibit A to the Dedication – Legal Description and Plat
STAFF CONTACT
Azalea Mitch, Director of Public Works 
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7309
Thomas Ruark, Senior Project Manager  
truark@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7280
384 of 662

--- page 385 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
APPROVAL OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY EASEMENT DEDICATION 
2050 DETROIT DRIVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94404 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”) is the record owner of real property located at 2050 Detroit 
Drive in the City of San Mateo, California, APN 033-441-230; and 
WHEREAS, on May 6, 2019, the City Council approved the construction contract for the Wastewater 
Treatment Plant (“WWTP”) Nutrient Removal and Wet Weather Management Upgrade and Expansion Project 
and construction began on June 4, 2019; and 
WHEREAS, Detroit Drive functions as a street but is not shown as public right-of-way on the existing 
recorded maps; and 
WHEREAS, the City desires to dedicate a Public Right-of-Way Easement of approximately 29,000 square 
feet (Exhibit A) for public street purposes and to allow Pacific Gas & Electric Company (“PG&E”) to relocate 
electrical facilities to the public street, and AT&T Incorporated (AT&T) to relocate telecommunications facilities 
to the public street; and 
WHEREAS, the public street is necessary for vehicular access to the WWTP, adjacent private 
properties, and adjacent public parks and recreational amenities. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
THAT: 
1.
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines section 15061(b)(3), approving the dedication of a Public Right-
of-Way Easement is exempt from CEQA in that it can be seen with certainty that approving the
dedication of a Public Right-of-Way Easement will not have a significant effect on the environment,
because Detroit Drive is already used as a public street.
2.
The City Council approves the dedication of a Public Right-of-Way Easement and authorizes the
Mayor to execute the dedication, in substantially the form attached.
385 of 662

--- page 386 ---
Exhibit ‘A’ to the Resolution
Approval of Public Right-of-Way
Easement Dedication
386 of 662

--- page 387 ---
Page 1 of 2 
Government Code 6103: Exempt from 
Recording Fee 
 
WHEN RECORDED, MAIL TO: 
City of San Mateo 
Attn:  City Clerk 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
 
 
APPROVAL OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY EASEMENT DEDICATION 
 
THIS DEDICATION is made this _______ day of ______________, 2022 by the 
City of San Mateo (CITY), owner of the property at APN 033-441-230 (2050 Detroit 
Drive) in the City of San Mateo, California to and for the benefit of Public Right-of-Way 
for public street and public utility purposes.  
 
CITY hereby dedicates for Public Right-of-Way purposes and incidents thereto 
that portion of the real property situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, 
State of California as described and depicted in Exhibit A attached hereto and 
incorporated herein by this reference (“Dedication”). 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of San Mateo adopts 
Resolution No. ___ (2022) to approve the dedication of a Public Right-of-Way easement 
and authorizing the Mayor to execute this Dedication on the City’s behalf. 
 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
 
 
 
 
 
387 of 662

--- page 388 ---
Page 2 of 2 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused this instrument to be 
executed as of the date indicated. 
 
*** SIGNATURES TO BE NOTARIZED*** 
 
 
Dated:  __________________, _____ 
 
____________________________ 
By: Rick Bonilla  
Its: Mayor 
 
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
____________________________  
 
______________________________ 
 
Patrice M. Olds, 
 
 
 
 
Gabrielle Whelan, 
City Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
388 of 662

--- page 389 ---
A notary public or other officer completing this certificate verifies only the identity of the 
individual who signed the document to which this certificate is attached, and not the 
truthfulness, accuracy, or validity of that document. 
 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
 
| 
COUNTY OF __________________| 
 
 
 
On _____________________________, before me, ___________________________, 
the undersigned Notary Public, personally appeared __________________________, 
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is 
subscribed to the within instrument, and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the 
same in his/her authorized capacity, and that by his/her signature on the instrument the 
person, or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument. 
 
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the State of California that 
the foregoing paragraph is true and correct. 
 
WITNESS my hand and official seal. 
 
 
 
Signed by: ___________________________________ 
 
      Notary Public, State of California 
 
389 of 662

--- page 390 ---
Exhibit ‘A’ to the Dedication
Legal Description and Plat
390 of 662

--- page 391 ---
Page 1 of 2 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A 
LEGAL DESCRIPTION 
RIGHT-OF-WAY EASEMENT 
 
 
Being all that real property situated in the City of San Mateo, County of San Mateo, 
and State of California, described as follows: 
 
That portion of Parcel Two, as said parcel is described in that certain grant deed filed 
for record on January 25, 1991 as Document Number 91008619, at the Office of the 
County Recorder of San Mateo County, and being more particularly described as 
follows: 
 
COMMENCING at 2.5-inch diameter brass disk monument with punch in monument 
well stamped ”1986 CITY OF SAN MATEO", lying on the monument line of Detroit 
Drive at J. Hart Clinton Drive, distant North 00° 27’ 12” West, 521.93 feet from a 2.5-
inch diameter brass disk monument with punch in monument well stamped ”1986 
CITY OF SAN MATEO" lying on the monument line of Detroit Drive; 
 
Thence along said monument line of Detroit Drive, South 00° 27’ 12” East, 65.62 
feet; 
 
Thence North 89° 32’ 48” East, 14.50 feet to the easterly right-of-way line of Detroit 
Drive, and the northwesterly corner of said Parcel Two, and the POINT OF 
BEGINNING; 
 
Thence coincident with the northerly line of said Parcel Two, same being the 
southerly right-of-way line of J. Hart Clinton Drive for the following three courses;  
 
South 71° 22’ 46” East, 73.32 feet; 
 
Thence South 61° 47’ 55” East, 163.68 feet to the beginning of a tangent curve 
concave to the northeast; 
 
Thence coincident with said curve having a radius of 1950.00 feet, through a central 
angle of 8° 11’ 40”, an arc length of 278.89 feet to the northeasterly corner of said 
Parcel Two, and the southwesterly right-of-way line of Detroit Drive; 
 
Thence coincident with the northeasterly line of said Parcel Two and the 
southwesterly right-of-way line of Detroit Drive for the following two courses; 
 
South 39° 27’ 40” East, 17.42 feet; 
 
Thence South 33° 27’ 40” East, 44.79 feet; 
 
391 of 662

--- page 392 ---
Page 2 of 2 
 
Thence North 69° 11’ 23” West, 372.03 feet to the beginning of a tangent curve 
concave to the south; 
 
Thence coincident with said curve having a radius of 219.50 feet, through a central 
angle of 21° 15’ 49”, an arc length of 81.46 feet; 
 
Thence South 89° 32’ 48” West, 47.43 feet to the beginning of a tangent curve 
concave to the southeast; 
 
Thence coincident with said curve having a radius of 28.00 feet, through a central 
angle of 90° 00’ 00”, an arc length of 43.98 feet to a point of cusp on the westerly line 
of said Parcel Two and the easterly right-of-way line of Detroit Drive; 
 
Thence coincident with said westerly line of said Parcel Two and the easterly right-of-
way line of Detroit Drive, North 00° 27, 12” West, 147.49 feet to the POINT OF 
BEGINNING. 
 
A plat titled Exhibit B is attached hereto and made a part hereof. 
 
Containing 29,026 square feet/0.67 acres, more or less. 
 
 
 
________________________ 
Curtis C. Chappell, PLS 7992 
 
March 3, 2022 
 
392 of 662

--- page 393 ---
POINT OF COMMENCEMENT
FD. 2.5” DIA BRASS DISK W/
PUNCH IN WELL. STAMPED
"1986 CITY OF SAN MATEO”
ORIGIN UNKNOWN

N
Kg» POINT OF BEGINNING

CURVE TABLE

| NO. | RADIUS | LENGTH | DELTA
219.50°| 81.46’ | 21° 15° 49”
28.00’ | 43.98’ | 90° 00’ 00”

LINE TABLE

| NO. | BEARING | LENGTH
N89°32’48"E | 14.50’
$71°22°46"E | 73.32’

RIGHT-OF-WAY
EASEMENT
DEDICATION AREA

29,0264 SQUARE FEET
0.674 ACRES

DETROIT DR.
(A PUBLIC STREET)
NO0°27'12"W 521.93’

PARCEL TWO [>
DOCG: YI @©O8S1
APIN] O832444) 1 -28’O

FD. 2.5” DIA BRASS DISK W/
PUNCH IN WELL. STAMPED
"1986 CITY OF SAN MATEO”
ORIGIN UNKNOWN

LOT 7
6O MAPS SO
APN O83°:44)1 ODO

C2
APN ©83-441 +1 BO

LC  WEICH WAS DEDICATED FOR PUBLIC
5 BY PARCEL MAP NO. 249, 83 PM 72

PGL
$3 PM 72
AIPIN] ©SS-4)4) 1] -2GO

PAGE 1 OF 1

EXHIBIT B
PLAT TO ACCOMPANY LEGAL DESCRIPTION
RIGHT-OF-WAY EASEMENT DEDICATION
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
2050 DETROIT DRIVE

FREYER
LAURETAtNc.

CIVIL ENGINEERS * SURVEYORS »* CONSTRUCTION MANAGERS

144 North San Mateo Drive « San Mateo, CA 94401
(650)344-9901 * Fax (650)344-9920
www.freyerlaureta.com



--- page 394 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  17
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5864
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Wastewater Treatment Plant Backup Generator Rental – Change Order
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Resolution to authorize an alternative purchasing procedure for a change order with HERC Rentals, Inc. for the 
rental of an emergency generator at the Wastewater Treatment Plant in the amount of $82,000, for a revised total amount 
not to exceed $172,000, and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change order in substantially the form 
presented. 
BACKGROUND:
The Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) operates five emergency generators that are used in the event of a power 
outage. Because this is a critical facility that is operated on a continuous basis, any loss of power exceeding 30 minutes 
could result in water quality violations. 
One of the WWTP generators has begun leaking coolant into the oil cooling system, making the generator inoperable. Staff 
has rented an emergency backup generator from HERC Rentals, Inc. to ensure continued operation. Staff selected HERC 
Rentals, Inc. for the rental of an emergency backup generator based on written quotes submitted during the regular 
procurement process. This contract change order continues the rental, which is already on-site until an existing permanent 
generator can be replaced with a new model. The replacement of the existing permanent generator is scheduled for May 
2022. 
Pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), the City Council may approve other alternative purchasing 
procedures upon a finding by the City Council prior to or concurrent with the award of contract that the procedures are in 
the best interests of the City for the particular contract.  Based on the above facts, staff recommends for City Council to 
approve an alternative purchasing procedure based on a finding that it is in the best interests of the City and approve the 
continued rental of an emergency generator from HERC Rentals, Inc.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The generator rental cost was not budgeted, but sufficient funds are available in the WWTP Maintenance budget to cover 
the expenses. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This change order is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15301.)
394 of 662

--- page 395 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Changer Order No. 1 
STAFF CONTACT
Robert Learmonth, Wastewater Treatment Plant Manager
rlearmonth@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7312
Matt Fabry, Deputy Director
mfabry@cityofsanmateo.org
650 522 7309
395 of 662

--- page 396 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
APPROVING AN ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR A CHANGE ORDER WITH HERC RENTALS, INC. 
FOR A BACKUP EMERGENCY GENERATOR RENTAL FOR THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT 
WHEREAS, the Wastewater Treatment Plant operates five emergency generators that are used in the 
event of a power outage; and
WHEREAS, any loss of power exceeding thirty minutes could result in water quality violations; and
WHEREAS, one of the generators has become inoperable due to a mechanical malfunction; and 
WHEREAS, the City solicited quotes for the rental of a backup emergency generator until a new 
generator may be installed and selected HERC Rentals, Inc. after a review of quotes received; and 
WHEREAS, the backup emergency generator from HERC Rentals, Inc. is currently located on-site at the 
Waste Water Treatment Plant and the continued rental of the emergency backup generator is needed to 
maintain safe operations; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), the City Council may approve 
other alternative purchasing procedures upon a finding by the City Council prior to or concurrent with the award 
of contract that the procedures are in the best interests of the City for the particular contract; and
WHEREAS, City staff recommends approval of a change order with HERC Rentals, Inc. for the continued 
rental of an emergency backup generator because it is competitively priced and ensures safe Wastewater 
Treatment Plant operations until a new generator is installed.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS and 
RESOLVES that:
1.
This Council action is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility” because it consists of 
the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing 
public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving 
negligible or no expansion of an existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
2.
In accordance with Municipal Code section 3.60.070(h)(3), the proposed change order with HERC, 
Inc. is in the best interest of the City because:  
a)
One of the emergency generators is inoperable; and
b)
HERC Rentals Inc. has supplied an emergency backup generator at a competitive price; and
c)
Procurring a different supplier may result in delays and the City risks potential water quality 
violations in the event of an emergency.
396 of 662

--- page 397 ---
3.
The agreement with HERC Rentals Inc., for the supply of an emergency backup generator, in the 
amount not to exceed of $172,000 is approved.
4.
The Public Works Director is authorized to execute the change order in substantially the form 
submitted, on behalf of the City.
397 of 662

--- page 398 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
CHANGE ORDER # 1
(650) 522-7300 
 CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER
PROJECT: WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT GENERATOR RENTAL
TO:  FINANCE DEPARTMENT
AGREEMENT WITH:  HERC Rentals
           
      27500 Riverview Center Blvd, Ste 100
           
      Bonita Springs, FL 34134
CHANGE ORDER  NO. 1
                                                                             Page 1 of 1
Purchase Order No. 46-05390
                                                                February 25, 2022             
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
This change order is for Finance tracking only. Refer to the following document for the description of work and 
agreement of price:
Summary of change:
The Wastewater Treatment Plant operates five emergency generators to be able to continue to operate in the 
event of a power disruption in the PG&E electrical feed. One of the generator units has become inoperable but 
is scheduled to be replaced in May. Contract Change Order No. 1 will allow for the rental of a generator until 
the inoperable unit can be replaced.
Total cost of change not to exceed: $82,000.00
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$90,000.00
Date Approved:  
Previous Change Orders
$0.00
Total to Date
$90,000.00
By: 
This Change Order
$82,000.00
       AZALEA MITCH, Director of Public Works
Revised Contract Price
$ 172,000.00
DISTRIBUTION:  Finance, Jason Reed; Project File
NOTE:  This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Director of Public Works.
398 of 662

--- page 399 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  18
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5860
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
East San Mateo Sanitary Sewer Lift Station Rehabilitation Project – Amendment 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Amendment No. 5 with Schaaf & Wheeler for professional design services for the East San Mateo Sanitary Sewer 
Lift Station Rehabilitation Project in an amount not to exceed $871,424 for a total agreement amount of $2,062,184; 
increase the contingency reserve by $63,626 for a total contingency balance of $87,200; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency 
amount.
BACKGROUND:
The Clean Water Program is improving the City’s sewer collection system to prevent sanitary sewer overflows and 
unauthorized discharges. In 2016, a sewer pump station and force main condition assessment was completed by AECOM 
that identified and ranked needed improvements. The East San Mateo Lift Station Rehabilitation Project (Project) includes 
improving the five highest priority lift stations: Kelly/Kehoe, Laurie Meadows, and Los Prados Nos. 1, 2, and 3. 
On February 24, 2017, Council approved the award of a professional design services agreement to Schaaf & Wheeler for 
this Project. The Project was split into two packages for efficient delivery. Staff coordinated with Schaaf and Wheeler to 
complete each package with a three-phase approach: 1) alternatives analysis, 2) detailed design, and 3) engineering 
services during construction. 
Package 1 included the abandonment of the Laurie Meadows lift station, the upgrade of the Woodbridge lift station, and 
the modifications to the surrounding sewers to redirect sewer flows. The scope of the original agreement included an 
alternatives analysis of these improvements. Three amendments were sequentially approved to allow Schaaf and Wheeler 
to work on the Package 1 design and construction phases: Amendment No. 1 included scope for detailed design, 
Amendment No. 2 included additional investigations, and Amendment No. 3 included engineering services during 
construction. The construction contract was awarded to JMB Construction in 2019 and the project was completed in 2020. 
Package 2 originally included the rehabilitation of the Los Prados area lift stations and Kelly/Kehoe lift station. In 2021, 
staff determined that Arroyo lift station also required improvements. Utilizing Schaaf and Wheeler’s existing contract 
balance, Amendment No. 4 increased their scope to perform an alternatives analysis of these lift stations. The 
recommendations from the alternatives analysis phase include the Los Prados No. 1 lift station replacement and force 
main extension, the elimination of Los Prados No. 2 lift station, sewer main improvements between Los Prados No. 1 and 
No. 2 lift stations, Kelly/Kehoe lift station replacement and force main extension, and the Arroyo lift station rehabilitation. 
As part of Package 2, Amendment No. 5 requests budget and scope for Schaaf & Wheeler to provide detailed design phase 
services for the recommended Package 2 improvements. Staff reviewed and negotiated a proposal with Schaaf and 
399 of 662

--- page 400 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Wheeler for Amendment No. 5 with a not-to-exceed amount of $871,424. Staff believes the proposal to be reasonable for 
the scope of work and expertise required and recommends approving this amendment, as well as increasing the 
contingency reserve by $63,626. 
A future amendment will be negotiated to include engineering services during construction for Package 2.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funding for Amendment No. 5 is available in the East San Mateo Lift Station Project. A summary of the approved 
agreement and amendments is shown in the table below:
Agreement/Amendments
Contingency
Amount
Cumulative Total
Expended/Added
Balance
Original Agreement
$314,121
$314,121
+$30,000
$30,000
Amendment No. 1 Detailed Design
$723,327
$1,037,448
0
$30,000
Amendment No. 2 Added Investigations
$0
$1,037,448
-$21,426
$8,574
Amendment No. 3 Services during Construction
$153,312
$1,190,760
+$15,000
$23,574
Amendment No. 4 Alternatives Analysis
$0
$1,190,760
$0
$23,574
Amendment No. 5 Detailed Design
$871,424
$2,062,184
+$63,626
$87,200
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The work addressed by this administrative report is being undertaken to support the Clean Water Program. This project is 
subject to the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the general components of which are 
included as part of the Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report (Final PEIR) (SCH No. 201532006) that was 
prepared for the Clean Water Program. The Final PEIR was certified by City Council on June 6, 2016.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Amendment No. 5
STAFF CONTACT
Laura Webb, Associate Engineer
lwebb@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7322
Deryk Daquigan, Engineering Manager
ddaquigan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7287
400 of 662

--- page 401 ---
AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO THE AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SCHAAF & WHEELER 
FOR EAST SAN MATEO SANITARY SEWER LIFT STATION 
REHABILITATION PROJECT 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (“City”), a municipal corporation of the State 
of California, and Schaaf & Wheeler (“CONSULTANT”), entered into an Agreement for 
professional services (“Agreement”) on February 15, 2017; and 
 
WHEREAS, City and Consultant, wish to amend the Agreement to include an 
updated Alternatives Analysis as described in the attached Scope of Work. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1—Scope of Project of the Agreement is amended to include 
reference “Exhibits A, A1, A2, A3 and A4”. Exhibit A4 to the Agreement 
is attached and incorporated by reference. Where conflicting information 
between “Exhibit A”, “Exhibit A1”, “Exhibit A2”, “Exhibit A3” and 
“Exhibit A4”, “Exhibit A4” shall take precedence. 
 
2. 
Section 7—Term, Progress and Completion of the Agreement is amended 
to reference “Exhibits B, B1, B2, B3 and B4”. Exhibit B4 to the 
agreement is attached and incorporated by reference. Where conflicting 
information between “Exhibit B”, “Exhibit B1”, “Exhibit B2”, “Exhibit 
B3” and “Exhibit B4”, “Exhibit B4” shall take precedence. 
 
3. 
Section 8—Payment of the Agreement is amended to change the not to 
exceed fee from “$1,190,760.00” to “$2,062,184.00” pursuant to the 
Rate and Cost Schedule set forth in Exhibit C4, which is attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
4. 
The remaining terms of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Schaaf & Wheeler have 
executed this Agreement on 
. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
CONSULTANT 
Schaaf & Wheeler 
 
 
Azalea Mitch 
Date 
Charles D. Anderson 
Date 
Public Works Director
President 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
Linh Nguyen 
Date 
Exhibits: 
Assistant City Attorney 
Attachment A4 – Scope of Services 
Attachment B4—Schedule 
Attachment C4—Rate and Cost Schedule 
401 of 662

--- page 402 ---
ATTACHMENT “A4” 
 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
For 
Amendment 5 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Clean Water Program 
Sanitary Sewer Lift Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Job No. CWP469988 
402 of 662

--- page 403 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 2 of 15 
 
 
 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The Consultant will provide engineering consulting services for all project elements listed in this 
Scope of Services. The project and fee negotiations will be executed in three phases for each 
lift station project as listed below and further defined in this Scope of Services: 
Phase 1 
• 
Task 1 - General Services (Mobilization and Supporting Task 2) 
• 
Task 2 - Verification of Rehabilitation and Basis of Design 
Phase 2 
• 
Task 1 - General Services (Supporting Tasks 3 through 6) 
• 
Task 3 - 50% Design 
• 
Task 4 - 90% Design 
• 
Task 5 – 100% Design and Bid Documents 
• 
Task 6 - Bid Period Assistance 
Phase 3 
• 
Task 1 - General Services (Supporting Task 7) 
• 
Task 7 – Construction Phase Services 
Typical tasks that are required of the Consultant under these categories are detailed in the 
following sections. Throughout the design of this project, the Consultant will submit deliverables 
for review and approval by the City and other governing agencies as required. A preliminary 
description of proposed deliverables has been provided in this Scope of Services and will be 
finalized during contract and fee negotiations. 
The deliverables required by the Consultant will vary depending on the necessary 
improvements to the pump stations and force mains defined for each project. All drawings shall 
be drawn using AutoCAD and PDFs capable of plotting at a legible scale both 11x17 and on 22” 
x 34” sheets shall be provided. Additional deliverable information is provided in the various task 
descriptions below. 
For the basis of design, 50%, 90%, and 100% submittals, the Consultant shall attend a review 
meeting with City staff where the submittals are presented to the City and it is demonstrated that 
previous City comments were addressed in the submittal. 
The City reserves the right to discontinue, alter, or postpone services at any time. 
SANITARY SEWER LIFT STATION REHABILITATION PROJECTS 
This scope assumes that one set of design documents will be prepared for all lift stations, force 
mains, and gravity sewer mains. This scope assumes that the design will include the following 
items, as further described in the basis of design report. 
1. Replace Los Prados #1 lift station and force main 
a. Extend force main to the Flint-Norfolk Pump Station 
b. Reconfigure the intersection of Los Prados and La Selva (layout alternative 2, 
bulb out) 
403 of 662

--- page 404 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 3 of 15 
 
 
 
 
2. Abandon Los Prados #2 lift station 
3. New deeper gravity sewer main between the Los Prados #1 and #2 lift stations 
4. Replace Kehoe Kelly lift station and force main 
a. Extend wet weather force main to the Flint Force Main near the intersection of 
Kehoe and Lodi) 
b. Extend dry weather force main to the adjacent gravity sewer system. 
5. Rehabilitate the Arroyo Lift Station and Replace the Force Main 
Key design elements for each project are identified below. 
Kehoe Kelly Pump Station and Force Main Rehabilitation 
The Kehoe Kelly Pump Station is a sanitary sewer lift station serving residential neighborhoods 
and is located at the northeast corner of the Kehoe Avenue and Kelly Street intersection. The lift 
station’s existing firm capacity is 75 gallons per minute (gpm) at 10 feet total dynamic head 
(TDH). It has a dry well and wet well, and discharges through a 6-inch-diameter cast iron / 
asbestos-cement force main approximately 160 feet in length. 
 
Improvements at this lift station include: 
• 
Regrading of surface to correct uneven topography. 
• 
Repaving of the improved site area. 
• 
Replace wet well with a deeper wet well to prevent high water operating level from 
reaching influent lines. 
• 
Replace existing pumps and motors with higher capacity equipment to meet Peak Wet 
Weather Flow (PWWF) demands. 
• 
Replace the force main with appropriate pipe material and diameter to accommodate 
higher capacity pumps. Extend wet weather force main to the Flint-Norfolk force main. 
o This scope assumes the force main will be installed within the roadway at the 16th 
Avenue Channel crossing, between the top of the box culvert and the existing 
road surface. 
o Environmental permitting for force main crossing of the 16th Avenue Channel, if 
deemed necessary. 
o Relocation of the existing water main on the north side of the channel crossing is 
included as an optional task, if deemed necessary. 
• 
Include a 3rd smaller dry weather pump and separate force main that extends to the 
adjacent gravity sewer system. 
• 
Replace the main electrical distribution panel and replace electrical enclosure. 
• 
Include odor control equipment as defined by others. 
• 
Provide a thermographic study of the new electrical equipment per code to determine 
where warning labels shall be installed per NFPA 70E. 
• 
Design temporary sanitary sewer bypass system required to construct improvements. 
• 
Provide shroud or security cover for gate and electrical enclosure padlocks. 
 
Los Prados No. 1 Pump Station and Force Main Rehabilitation Project 
Los Prados No. 1 Pump Station is a sanitary sewer lift station serving residential neighborhoods 
and commercial areas, including restaurants. It is located in the southwest street median of the 
404 of 662

--- page 405 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 4 of 15 
 
 
 
 
intersection of Los Prados Street, South Northfolk Street, and La Selva Street. The lift station’s 
existing firm capacity is 460 gpm at 21 feet TDH. It has a dry well, wet well, and aboveground 
portions and discharges through an 8-inch-diameter asbestos-cement force main approximately 
478 feet in length. Fats, oils, and grease are a major issue with this pump station. 
 
Improvements at this lift station include: 
• 
Relocate pump station to the southwest corner of the intersection. 
• 
Reconfigure intersection to have a bulb out for the pump station (BODR intersection 
reconfiguration Alternative 2). 
• 
New deeper wetwell to eliminate surcharging in upstream gravity system. 
• 
Replace the force main with appropriate pipe material and diameter to accommodate 
pump station flow capacity. Extend force main to the Flint-Norfolk Pump Station. 
• 
Upgrade the main electrical distribution panel and replace electrical enclosure. 
• 
Provide a thermographic study of the existing or new electrical equipment per code to 
determine where warning labels shall be installed per NFPA 70E. 
• 
Design temporary sanitary sewer bypass system required to construct improvements. 
• 
Provide shroud or security cover for gate and electrical enclosure padlocks. 
 
Los Prados No. 2 Pump Station Elimination and Gravity Main Between LP1 and LP2 
Los Prados No. 2 Pump Station is a sanitary lift station located across from 3161 Los Prados 
Street, in the driveway between El Parque Circle and Bahia Street, serving residential 
neighborhoods. The lift station’s existing firm capacity is 237 gpm at 8 feet TDH. It has a dry 
well, wet well, and aboveground portions and discharges through an 8-inch-diameter asbestos- 
cement force main approximately 55 feet in length. 
 
Improvements at this Pump Station include: 
• 
Eliminate and abandon Los Prados No. 2 Pump Station 
o Remove all equipment 
o Abandon below grade structures in place 
o Eliminate electrical service. 
• 
Install new deeper gravity sewer main between Los Prados No. 2 and Los Prados No. 1 
pump stations to accommodate pump station elimination. 
El Parque Court Gravity Sewer Replacement 
The existing gravity sewer main in El Parque Court has a significant sag and remains fully 
surcharged at all times. 
 
Improvements include: 
• 
Replace the gravity sewer main within El Parque Court to eliminate the sag. 
 
Arroyo Court Pump Station and Force Main Rehabilitation Project 
Arroyo Court Pump Station is a sanitary sewer lift station serving the adjacent residential 
neighborhood. It is located on Arroyo Court, just south of El Camino Real. The lift station’s 
existing firm capacity is 398 gpm at 30 feet TDH. It has a dry well, wet well, and aboveground 
405 of 662

--- page 406 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 5 of 15 
 
 
 
 
control panel.  The force main is 8-inch asbestos concrete and discharges at a manhole near 
the intersection of Arroyo Court and El Camino Real. 
 
Improvements at this lift station include: 
• 
Convert the existing drywell into wetwell. Rehabilitate structure and replace top slab as 
necessary to accommodate the new pump station layout. 
• 
Expand pump station limits to accommodate new electrical equipment and generator. 
• 
Environmental permitting for pump station expansion and tree removal. 
• 
Obtain title reports for adjacent properties to identify limits of existing easements. 
Easement acquisition services are included as optional tasks herein. 
• 
Modify and/or rehabilitate existing wetwell to convert to a flow through structure. 
• 
Replace the force main with appropriate pipe material and diameter to accommodate 
pump station flow capacity. 
• 
Upgrade the main electrical distribution panel and replace electrical enclosure. 
• 
Provide a thermographic study of the existing or new electrical equipment per code to 
determine where warning labels shall be installed per NFPA 70E. 
• 
Design temporary sanitary sewer bypass system required to construct improvements. 
• 
Provide shroud or security cover for gate and electrical enclosure padlocks. 
 
TASK 1 – General Services 
General services include tasks that will be performed by the Consultant throughout the project. 
Task 1 will cover all general services required for Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 for all of the lift 
station projects awarded to a single Consultant. These services include: 
• 
Project Management 
• 
Project Execution Plan 
• 
Risk Management 
• 
Workshops and Meetings 
• 
Quality Control 
• 
Management of Subconsultants and Subcontractors 
• 
Agency Coordination and City Meeting Support 
• 
Permitting 
• 
Health and Safety Plan 
Further information regarding expectations for these services will be issued as a separate 
program standard in the Design Standards and Guidelines, prior to the Phase 1 Negotiations. 
Task 1.1 – Project Management 
Task 1.1.1 – General Management 
The  Consultant  will  be  responsible  for  detailed  management  of  the  project,  including 
subconsultants and subcontractors, and will keep the City appraised of the status of the project. 
406 of 662

--- page 407 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 6 of 15 
 
 
 
 
The Consultant will provide the key management personnel as described in their proposal on this 
project. The Consultant will not reassign the key project personnel without prior approval of the 
City per the Standard Agreement for Professional Consultant Services. 
Task 1.1.4 – Progress Report 
The Consultant will prepare and submit monthly progress reports that include a narrative of the 
work completed by task, project decision log, project action item log, upcoming work, project 
issues, budget and schedule status, percent complete, cost to complete, earned value versus 
actual spent analysis, potential scope or budget changes, and other important project information. 
Task 1.1.5 – Project Invoices 
The Consultant will prepare and submit monthly invoices in accordance with Program standards. 
The invoices will document the man-hours and billing rates for staff for each task in the WBS, as 
well as overhead, profit and any direct costs. The current and previous billing period invoicing, as 
well as a summary of the budget spent, budget remaining, cost to complete, and all backup 
documentation for expenses will be included. The monthly progress report and project schedule 
will be submitted with the project invoice as part of the monthly request for payment. 
Task 1.1.7 – Progress Schedule 
The Consultant will prepare a cost loaded project schedule in significant detail to calculate a 
monthly earned value of work performed. The selection of tasks and task durations will be 
approved by the City. The Consultant will prepare a planned value curve for the Project. Prior to 
invoice submittal, the Consultant will evaluate the percent complete for each activity worked on 
during the billing period. The Consultant will calculate the earned value for the month. The earned 
value will be compared to the planned value and the actual invoice value for the month. The 
Consultant will need to justify any requests for monies over the planned value and explain how 
the overall budget will be met over the life of the project. 
Task 1.1.8 – Logs 
The Consultant will develop and maintain a Decision Log. The log will be used to track project 
decisions and how they were made. The Consultant will submit a copy of the updated Decision 
Log with each monthly Progress Report. The log should include the following information: 
• 
Assign a Decision Number 
• 
Describe the Decision 
• 
Identify the date of the Decision 
• 
Identify the City and Consultant staff party to the Decision 
• 
Identify the effect of the Decision and any impacts to the project scope, schedule, and 
budget 
The Consultant will develop and maintain an Action Item Log. The Consultant will submit an 
updated copy of the Action Item Log at progress meetings and with each monthly Progress 
Report. The log should include the following information: 
• 
Assign an Action Item Number 
• 
Describe the Action Item 
407 of 662

--- page 408 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 7 of 15 
 
 
 
 
• 
Identify the originator of the Action Item 
• 
Identify the initiation date of the Action Item 
• 
Describe the problem, issue or interest the Action Item is intended to address 
• 
Specify who is responsible for completing the Action Item 
• 
Specify the Action Item due date 
• 
Identify when the Action Item was completed 
• 
Identify any linked subtasks required for successful completion of the Action Item 
• 
Identify the results of completing the Action Item and any impacts to the project scope, 
schedule, and budget 
Task 1.3 – Workshops and Meetings 
The Consultant will prepare and submit to the City an agenda and meeting minutes for each 
formal meeting or workshop. 
Task 1.3.2 Progress Meetings 
The Consultant will conduct monthly project meetings with the City to review the Consultant 
Project Manager’s report and the status of the project scope, schedule, budget and any issues 
which may affect completion of the project. Meetings should be arranged so that the monthly 
progress report, invoice, and schedule can be submitted at each meeting. Acceptance of the 
monthly progress report, invoice, and schedule at this meeting is not mandatory; the City has up 
to five (5) workdays to review and approve the submittal. 
Other meetings will be scheduled on an as-needed basis. 
Task 1.3.3 Workshops and Focused Meetings 
The Consultant will hold meetings and workshops throughout the project to keep the City 
appraised of the job, review work-in-progress, share information, discuss project submittals, 
present findings of technical analyses, discuss constructability and operation concepts, receive 
and resolve comments, and obtain decisions and direction by City staff. 
For the basis of design, 50%, 90% and 100% design submittals, the Consultant will conduct a 
review meeting with City staff where the submittals are presented to the City and it is 
demonstrated that previous City comments were addressed in the submittal. The City will be able 
to provide new comments to the Consultant. The City review period is typically two (2) weeks for 
each major submittal. At the end of the review period, the Consultant will meet with City staff to 
receive and review City comments. Final adjudication of comments will be documented. 
This scope of services also includes two additional workshops/meetings with City staff as deemed 
necessary throughout the design. 
Task 1.4 – Quality Control 
The Consultant will develop a Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) Plan for implementation 
of the Scope of Work. The Consultant’s QA/QC Plan will be reviewed and approved by the City 
Project Manager and will include or reference all the controls necessary for implementation. 
QA/QC Plans shall include detailed requirements for providing the required integrity for all field 
work, including conducting the explorations, sampling, and sample custody and transport. All 
408 of 662

--- page 409 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 8 of 15 
 
 
 
 
QA/QC procedures for laboratory work shall be included. Each submittal, or partial submittal of 
testing results shall be accompanied by a written certification, signed by the Consultant’s Project 
Manager and the responsible individual from the applicable subconsultant, stating that all QA/QC 
procedures have been complied with for the information or submittal being delivered to the City. 
Submittals that do not include the written certification of compliance or that contain gross 
deficiencies or errors requiring a significant amount of the City staff time for checking will be 
returned without review until the City is satisfied that a thorough Consultant’s review, compliance 
with standards, checking and correction for coherence, consistency, spelling, etc., has been 
performed. 
Task 1.5 – Management of Subconsultants 
If the Consultant requires the services of any subconsultants, then the Consultant will include a 
list of them in the proposal, explain why they are needed, and provide a general description of 
their effort. 
The Consultant will manage the activities of subconsultants during performance of the project. All 
requirements of the contract shall also apply to subconsultants. 
Task 1.6 – Agency Coordination 
The Consultant will assist the City in coordinating the project with various local/county, 
state/regional, and federal agencies. This task includes attending meetings, as needed, with 
applicable agencies, providing meeting minutes, and providing project information and exhibits to 
the agencies. This task is established as an allowance task and shall only be used when 
specifically requested by the City in writing. Costs for this task shall be invoiced as a separate line 
item and shall include a copy of the authorization from the City. 
Task 1.7 – Permitting 
For all applicable project elements of this Scope of Work, the Consultant will provide contract 
documents, which ensure that facility features and performance and construction procedures 
comply with all conditions of existing permits and permits required to construct this project. 
Construction drawings, specifications and supplemental drawings will be prepared, as necessary 
in the format required to obtain all permits. 
The Consultant will identify and obtain all local/county, state/regional, and federal permits required 
for the projects, including but not limited to environmental permits, encroachment permits, building 
permits, etc. The Consultant will complete all permit applications, prepare supporting 
documentation for the permit applications as required by the issuing agency, furnish the required 
number of copies of all construction drawings and exhibits, and attend meetings with permitting 
agencies as required. The Consultant will coordinate with the City before meeting with any 
permitting agencies. The Consultant will ensure all permit applications are submitted in a timely 
fashion to ensure that design and construction are unimpeded by the permitting process. A critical 
path schedule for all permits shall be included in the schedule developed by the consultant team. 
All permit fees will be paid directly by the City and will not be deemed part of Consultant’s fee. 
The City has prepared a Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Report to comply with the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Consultant will prepare the Project Description 
and assist the City to determine the appropriate level of CEQA review for the project. This scope 
assumes that the project will qualify for categorical exemption. The Consultant will prepare a 
Notice of Exemption. If it is determined that the project does not qualify for categorical exemption, 
409 of 662

--- page 410 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 9 of 15 
 
 
 
 
the Consultant will prepare an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration as detailed in the 
optional tasks below. 
The environmental permitting scope includes the following for the Arroyo Court and Kehoe Kelly 
Force Main locations. It is assumed that all other work will qualify for categorical exemption and 
will not require additional permitting. 
1. Project coordination and meetings 
2. Preparation of Project Description and CEQA Documentation 
3. Preparation of CEQA Notice of Exemption 
4. Preparation of Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration is included as an optional 
task below. 
5. Cultural Resources Study 
6. CEQA Level Biological Resources Technical Report 
7. Tree Survey 
8. Water Board Permitting (Waste Discharge Requirements) 
9. CDFW Permitting (Lake or Streambed Alteration Agreement) 
10. Riparian Mitigation (likely required for tree removal at Arroyo Court) 
a. Investigate feasibility for on-site planting or riparian enhancement 
b. Coordinate with City to identify off-site mitigation options, if necessary 
c. Develop mitigation concepts and negotiate w/ the Water Board and CDFW. 
d. Prepare Riparian Mitigation and Monitoring Plan (RMMP) 
 
 
Task 3 –50% Design 
This task shall be conducted independently for each lift station; however, one set of design 
documents will be prepared for all lift stations, force mains, and gravity sewer mains. 
Task 3.1 – 50% Design Development 
The design activities and design elements shall be provided as needed to provide a 50% design 
deliverable including, depending on the specific project, the following at a 50% level of 
completion with specific information as indicated: 
• 
Civil drawings, including general facility layout and site plan, plus partial plans, sections, 
and details needed to depict the work. 
• 
Demolition drawings for items requiring demolition of existing features 
• 
Force main plan and profile drawings showing alignment and associated changes as 
may be applicable 
• 
Structural drawings for all structural modifications or new structures or structural 
components 
410 of 662

--- page 411 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 10 of 15 
 
 
 
 
• 
Process piping drawings, including plans, sections, details, and schematics as required 
to properly depict the required work. 
• 
Process mechanical drawings depicting new installations or rehabilitation for process 
equipment, such as pumps, and including plans, sections, details, and schematics as 
required 
• 
Instrumentation drawings showing new instrumentation and associated block diagrams 
for connections to existing or new systems. P&IDs may be provided, but are not 
specifically required. 
• 
Electrical drawings for new features including wiring and conduit, electrical panels and 
enclosures, motors, and related components. Provide plans, sections, details, and 
schematics as required to properly depict the required work. Include a revised one-line 
drawing depicting the new, rehabilitated, and existing electrical components in the lift 
station. 
• 
Preliminary new and rehabilitated equipment list with pertinent capacity, materials of 
construction, electrical and instrumentation requirements, as applicable 
• 
Preliminary new and rehabilitated instrument list with application, range, materials of 
construction, electrical and signal connection requirements, as applicable 
• 
Preliminary pipe and valve schedule for all new and rehabilitated piping both above and 
below grade, inside and outside, for the entire lift station and force main system. Include 
pipe and valve type, joints, lining and coating information, pressure class and testing 
requirements. 
• 
Topographical survey and associated base mapping needed to support the design 
based on the recommended improvements as recommended in Task 2.6 above and 
conducted as defined in Task 2.3. 
• 
Geotechnical Data Report and Geotechnical Design Memorandum in accordance with 
investigation and geotechnical engineering services as recommended in Task 2.6 above 
and conducted as defined in Task 3.2 below. 
• 
Utility research and potholing results, as necessary to verify utilities that may conflict with 
the recommended improvements as recommended in Task 2.6 above and conducted as 
defined in Task 3.3 below. 
• 
Summary of all required permits and their acquisition requirements (e.g. Building 
Permits, etc.) 
• 
Land acquisition needs, if applicable 
• 
Constructability review 
• 
All drawings will be drawn using AutoCAD. The Consultant will use three-dimensional 
(3D) models for buildings and structures to facilitate review of concepts with the City. 
• 
Coordination with the Clean Water Program’s General Conditions and Special 
Provisions 
• 
List of technical specifications 
• 
Design calculations for all pertinent project features 
• 
50% cost estimate (Class 2) with basis of estimate narrative 
411 of 662

--- page 412 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 11 of 15 
 
 
 
 
• 
Statement signed by Consultant’s Project Manager that all deliverables have been 
reviewed or otherwise checked in full conformance with Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. 
All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines and 
standards which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
The 50% design deliverable shall include 8 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and one print 
ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
3.1.2 – Site Visits 
Site visits will be conducted throughout the design process to document existing conditions, 
take field measurements, document visible utilities, and to review the proposed improvements. 
3.1.2 - Topographic Surveying and Utility Research 
The Consultant and Consultant’s surveying subconsultant shall conduct additional field surveys 
as required to generate topographic and planimetric information and base mapping for drawings 
to support the design. 
The field survey shall establish both horizontal and vertical alignment of the facilities and will note 
all survey monuments, topographic features, surface features (pavements, curbs, retaining walls, 
trees, etc.), utilities, right-of-way limits, property lines, property information, and elevations. The 
Consultant will be responsible for obtaining all permits and access agreements to perform the 
survey, and providing any necessary traffic control. 
3.1.3 - Title Report and Title Review 
Title reports will be obtained for up to four properties, two adjacent to Arroyo Pump Station and 
two on the Kehoe Avenue Force Main crossing at the 16th Avenue Channel. Existing easements 
will be identified and shown on the project drawings and the need for additional easements will 
be identified, where applicable. 
3.1.4 – Geotechnical – Update Report 
The previously prepared geotechnical report will be updated with additional geotechnical data 
obtained during the pump station alternative phase and to reflect the current project scope. 
3.1.5 – Hydraulic Modeling and Analysis 
Hydraulic modeling and analysis will be conducted to identify project impacts to the upstream and 
downstream gravity sewers, force mains, and pump stations. The City’s existing hydraulic model 
will be updated with additional available data and pump curves. The proposed improvements will 
be added to the model for comparing existing and proposed conditions. The proposed impacts 
will be identified and summarized in a brief memorandum. 
Task 4 – 90% Design 
This task shall be conducted independently for each lift station; however, it is assumed that one 
set of design documents will be prepared for all lift stations, force mains, and gravity sewer 
mains. All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines 
and standards which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
For  the  90%  Design  Submittal,  the  major  design  elements  shall  be  well-established  and 
essentially complete. All supplementary/auxiliary design elements shall be incorporated between 
412 of 662

--- page 413 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 12 of 15 
 
 
 
 
the 50% and 90% Design Submittal for a complete design package. Drawings for all disciplines 
shall be substantially complete. The submittal will include the location and arrangement of all 
significant existing and proposed structures and equipment, all existing utilities adjacent to or 
within the construction area, drawing index, legend, etc. Specifications shall be substantially 
complete and include all sections and all divisions including the legal, procedural, and general 
“front-end” sections. 
This submittal will include all finished, checked and complete plans and specifications. No new 
drawings and/or specification sections by the Consultant will be expected after this stage. All City 
comments on the previous submittal will  have been resolved, rejected, addressed and/or 
incorporated in this submittal. The project is essentially finished and submitted as complete. The 
only missing effort is the City final review and regulatory approval with comment incorporation. 
Consultant’s checking will include a review of all deliverables within each discipline (i.e. drawings, 
detailed specifications, project support documentation, etc.) and an inter-discipline coordination 
cross-check to correct discrepancies among the project documents. 
Discipline calculations, databases, construction costs estimates, schedule and other project 
support documentation will be updated to reflect the status of the Drawings and Detailed 
Specifications and will support the 90% design submittal workshops. 
An updated construction cost estimate (AACE Class 2) with basis of estimate narrative and 
construction sequencing plan and schedule shall be included with the deliverables. 
The 90% design deliverable shall include a statement signed by Consultant’s Project Manager 
that all deliverables have been reviewed or otherwise checked in full conformance with 
Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. 
The 90% design deliverable shall include 15 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and one print 
ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
Task 5 – 100% Design and Bid Documents 
This task shall be conducted independently for each lift station; however, it is assumed that one 
set of design documents will be prepared for all lift stations, force mains, and gravity sewer mains. 
All design work shall be in conformance with the Clean Water Program design guidelines and 
standards which will be provided to the Consultant during the negotiation phase. 
Following receipt of all City and regulatory review comments on the 90% Design Submittals, the 
Consultant will prepare the Final (100%) Design and submit a 100% design submittal as a final 
check set. The final check set shall include all bid documents. Prior to submittal, the Consultant 
will have performed an inter-discipline cross-check of the design changes made since 90% design 
and corrected the related discrepancies. The Consultant will not add any new drawings or make 
any changes to the plans or specifications that are not a result of comments received by the City, 
regulatory review, or a final in-house quality control check. Consultant and City shall conduct a 
workshop to verify that all City comments have been addressed and all permit conditions are 
accounted for. After the City’s back-check review is complete, Consultant shall revise the 
documents and submit Final Bid Documents. 
The 100% back-check design deliverable shall include a statement signed by Consultant’s Project 
Manager that all deliverables have been reviewed or otherwise checked in full conformance with 
Consultant’s QA/QC Plan. 
413 of 662

--- page 414 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 13 of 15 
 
 
 
 
The 100% back-check design deliverable shall include 15 hard copies (11x17 drawings) and 
one print ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. 
The Final Bid Documents will include finished, checked and completed plans and specifications 
and will incorporate all City comments from previous submittals, workshops and constructability 
reviews as appropriate. The Consultant will document in-house changes and submit them to the 
City along with the Final Bid Documents. 
The Final Design submittals will also include all final databases, reports, control strategies, 
construction schedules, cost estimates and project documentation. 
The process of assisting the City in obtaining the required permits will be completed. 
All plans and, detailed specifications and engineering calculations will be stamped and signed by 
a Registered Engineer in the State of California. 
An updated construction cost estimate (AACE Class 1) and construction sequencing plan and 
schedule will be included with the deliverables. 
The Final Bid Documents deliverable shall include 5 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings) and 
one print ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the City of all deliverables. The City will 
print formal Bid Documents. 
Task 6 – Bid Period Assistance 
This task shall be conducted independently for each identified projects awarded to Consultant. 
The Consultant shall provide assistance during the bid period, including the following: 
• 
Participate in the pre-bid conference, if necessary 
• 
Prepare responses to bidders questions 
• 
Prepare addenda to Bid Documents, as needed, for providing clarification for items 
identified prior to bid opening. 
• 
Participate in reviewing alternate equipment and material proposals from the contractor, 
if applicable. 
• 
Participate in the evaluation of the submitted bids, furnish consultation and advice to City 
staff and assist with all the related equipment, cost and other analyses as required to 
finalize the award decision. 
• 
Prepare conformed drawings and specifications that incorporate all addenda. The Final 
Conformed Documents deliverable shall include 5 hard copies (using 11 x 17 drawings), 
2 full-size drawings sets, and one print ready PDF on electronic media acceptable to the 
City of all deliverables. 
 
 
Task A – Optional Services 
Optional Task A1.1 – Plat & Legal Descriptions for New Easements (2) 
This optional task includes preparation of plat and legal descriptions for 2 new easements. 
414 of 662

--- page 415 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 14 of 15 
 
 
 
 
Optional Task A1.2 – Topographic Surveying of Pothole Locations 
This optional task includes up to one day of topographic surveying during utility locating and 
potholing. 
Optional Task A1.3 – Property Appraisal Services for New Easement (1) 
This optional task includes property appraisal services for a new easement at one property. 
This scope was developed under the assumption that a new easement may be required on the 
north side of the Arroyo Court pump station (212 S El Camino Real). 
Optional Task A1.4 – Easement Negotiation/Acquisition Services (1) 
This optional task includes easement negotiation/acquisition services for one new easement. 
This scope includes: 
1. Preparation of acquisition documents 
2. Negotiate to acquire a permanent easement acquisition 
3. If settlement with owner is reached pursuant to the City approved appraisal or 
City approved administrative settlement, the Consultant will prepare a 
Memorandum of Settlement for transmittal to City 
4. Establish a process of coordinating escrow closings and reviewing escrow 
instructions. 
Optional Task A1.5 – Utility E-Locates (3 days) 
This optional task includes utility locating services using electromagnetic field induction and 
ground penetrating radar. This scope includes up to 3 days of utility locating services. 
Optional Task A1.6 – Utility Potholing (25 Utilities) 
This optional task includes exploratory excavations to locate key buried utilities or other structures 
that are expected to interfere with the work. Consultant will be responsible for selecting the 
potholing excavation method (i.e. backhoe pit versus vacuum excavation). The Consultant will be 
responsible for obtaining all permits and access agreements to perform the excavations and 
providing any necessary traffic control and pavement or other surface repairs. The Consultant will 
develop the utility pothole list, perform all excavations and repairs, and perform all field surveys 
to establish the locations of the buried features. This scope includes vacuum excavation of up to 
25 separate utilities/structures. 
Optional Task A1.7 – Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
If the City, in its role as CEQA lead agency, determines that the Project is unable to qualify for a 
categorical exemption, the Consultant will prepare an IS/MND. This document will consist of the 
project description, the Initial Study checklist, and an analysis of the Project with respect to each 
of the questions in Appendix G of the CEQA Guidelines. Following City review of the 
administrative draft, the final draft IS/MND will be published for a public review period of at least 
20 days (30 days if the MND is submitted to the State Clearinghouse). The Consultant will assist 
with preparing responses to any public comments and making any necessary revisions to the 
draft IS/MND, resulting in the final IS/MND. If possible, the MND will be tiered off the 2016 PEIR 
for the Clean Water Program. A Notice of Determination (NOD) will be filed with the State 
Clearinghouse following final Project approval by the City. 
415 of 662

--- page 416 ---
Attachment A, Scope of Services ‐ Sanitary Sewer Pump Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Page 15 of 15 
 
 
 
 
Optional Task A1.8 – Water Main Relocation at Kehoe/16th Avenue Channel 
This optional task includes the coordination and design to relocate the existing water main on 
the north side of the 16th Avenue channel culverts. This task may be necessary if it is 
determined that the new force main cannot be installed within the roadway at the channel 
crossing (between box culvert and street surface). 
 
 
SCOPE ASSUMPTIONS 
This scope of work was developed under the following assumptions: 
1. The design of all lift stations, force mains, and gravity sewer mains will be prepared 
under one set of construction documents. 
2. CCTV video inspection of existing gravity sewer mains will be provided by the City, if 
deemed necessary. CCTV video inspection can be provided by the Consultant for an 
additional scope and fee if requested. 
3. The wetwell/drywell at all lift stations will be abandoned in place and lift stations to be 
replaced will receive new precast concrete wetwells. 
4. SCADA systems will be based on Motorola ACE3600 and will be coordinated with the 
City’s preferred SCADA consultants. 
5. Cathodic Protection Assumptions: 
a. The need for cathodic protection is not anticipated for the proposed 
improvements. 
b. Design of cathodic protection is not included within this scope; however, it can be 
provided for an additional fee if necessary. 
416 of 662

--- page 417 ---
ATTACHMENT “B4” 
 
 
SCHEDULE 
For 
Amendment 5 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Clean Water Program 
Sanitary Sewer Lift Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Job No. CWP469988 
417 of 662

--- page 418 ---
City of San Mateo 
Clean Water Program 
Sanitary Sewer Lift Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Job No. CWP46S092 
ID 
Task Name 
Duration 
Start 
Finish 
Feb '22 Mar '22 Apr '22 May '22 Jun '22 Jul '22 
Aug '22 Sep '22 Oct '22 Nov '22 Dec '22 Jan '23 
Feb '23 Mar '23 Apr '23 May '23 Jun '23 Jul '23 
Aug '23 Sep '23 
1 
Phase 2 NTP 
0 days 
Mon 3/14/22 Mon 3/14/22   e 2 NTP 
3/14 
Prepare 50% Design 
7/18 
City Review of 50% Submittal 
10/24 
City Review of 90% Submittal 
12/26 
City Review of 100% Draft Submittal 
4/12 
Submit Bid Documents 
7/19 
2 
Prepare 50% Design 
263 days 
Mon 3/14/22 Wed 3/15/23 
3 
Site Visits 
15 days 
Mon 3/14/22 Fri 4/1/22 
4 
Environmental Studies and Permitting 
263 days 
Mon 3/14/22 Wed 3/15/23 
5 
Property Appraisal & Easement Negotiations 
200 days 
Mon 3/14/22 Fri 12/16/22 
6 
Topographic Surveying and Utility Research 
30 days 
Mon 3/14/22 Fri 4/22/22 
7 
Utility E‐Locates & Potholing 
40 days 
Mon 3/14/22 Fri 5/6/22 
8 
Calculations, Analysis, Hydraulic Modeling 
30 days 
Mon 3/14/22 Fri 4/22/22 
9 
Prepare 50% Design 
60 days 
Mon 4/25/22 Fri 7/15/22 
10 
City Review of 50% Submittal 
10 days 
Mon 7/18/22 Fri 7/29/22 
11 
Prepare 90% Design 
60 days 
Mon 8/1/22 
Fri 10/21/22 
12 
City Review of 90% Submittal 
10 days 
Mon 10/24/22 Fri 11/4/22 
13 
Prepare 100% Draft Design 
35 days 
Mon 11/7/22 Fri 12/23/22 
14 
City Review of 100% Draft Submittal 
10 days 
Mon 12/26/22 Fri 1/6/23 
15 
Prepare Bid Documents 
20 days 
Thu 3/16/23 
Wed 4/12/23 
16 
Submit Bid Documents 
0 days 
Wed 4/12/23 Wed 4/12/23 
17 
18 
Prepare Documents For Advertising 
10 days 
Thu 4/13/23 
Wed 4/26/23 
19 
Bid Period 
25 days 
Thu 4/27/23 
Wed 5/31/23 
20 
AR to Council for Approval (1.5 months) 
35 days 
Thu 6/1/23 
Wed 7/19/23 
21 
Award Construction Contract 
0 days 
Wed 7/19/23 Wed 7/19/23 
22 
Construction 
300 days 
Thu 7/20/23 
Wed 9/11/24 
23 
Construction Complete 
0 days 
Wed 9/11/24 Wed 9/11/24 
February 10, 2022 
Durations are in Working Days 
Schedule has an assumed start date for 50% Design and assumes that Bid Documents will not be prepared until environmental permits are obtained. 
418 of 662

--- page 419 ---
ATTACHMENT “C4” 
 
 
RATE AND COST SCHEDULE 
For 
Amendment 5 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Clean Water Program 
Sanitary Sewer Lift Station Rehabilitation Design Services 
Job No. CWP469988 
419 of 662

--- page 420 ---
City of San Mateo 
Sanitary Sewer Lift Station 
Rehabilitation Design 
Schaaf & Wheeler 
January 14, 2022 
Benjamin Shick 
Project Manager 
Leif Coponen 
QA/QC 
Glen Anderson 
Design Manager 
Curran Price 
Project Engineer 
Jonathan Ondracek 
Project Engineer 
GIS/CAD Technician 
Total 
Schaaf & Wheeler Fee 
Electrical Subconsultant  - 
TJC and Associates 
Structural Subconsultant - 
Biggs Cardosa & Assoc. 
Surveying Subconsultant  - 
Kier & Wright 
Geotechnical Subconsultant - 
Cornerstone Earth Group 
Potholing/Utility Locating 
Subconsultant  - 
Subtronic Corporation 
Traffic Engineering 
Subconsultant  - 
Hexagon 
Environmental Permitting 
Subconsultant  - 
WRA, Inc. 
Easement 
AcquisitionSubconsultant  - 
Associated Right of Way 
Subconsultant Markup (5%) 
Mileage 
Copies, Postage, Shipping 
Total Cost 
Charge Rate $295.63 
$295.63 
$198.29 
$162.24 
$129.79 
$112.11 
Phase 2 
Task 1 - General Services 
144 
36 
28 
44 
32 
$70,057 
$1,210 
$88,520 
$4,487 
$200 
$164,474 
1.1 - Project Management 
1.1.1 - General Management 
24 
$7,095 
$7,095 
1.1.4 - Progress Report 
12 
$3,548 
$3,548 
1.1.5 - Project Invoices 
12 
$3,548 
$3,548 
1.1.7 - Progress Schedule 
4 
$1,183 
$1,183 
1.1.8 - Logs 
4 
$1,183 
$1,183 
1.3 - Workshops and Meetings 
1.3.2 - Progress Meetings 
16 
16 
$7,326 
$7,326 
1.3.3 - Workshops and Focused Meetings 
16 
16 
16 
$9,403 
$9,403 
1.4 - Quality Control 
8 
36 
4 
$13,801 
$1,210 
$61 
$15,071 
1.5 - Management of Subconsultants 
16 
8 
$6,316 
$6,316 
1.6 - Agency Coordination (Allowance Task) 
16 
8 
4 
$6,965 
$200 
$7,165 
1.7 - Permitting 
16 
8 
8 
16 
$9,691 
$88,520 
$4,426 
$102,637 
Task 3 - 50% Design 
66 
116 
148 
228 
120 
$109,570 
$46,280 
$35,400.00 
$2,440 
$6,000 
$4,506 
$400 
$204,596 
3.1 - 50% Design Development 
3.1.1 - Site Visits 
16 
24 
24 
$11,739 
$3,000 
$150 
$14,889 
3.1.2 - Topographic Surveying & Utility Research 
4 
$1,183 
$18,100.00 
$905 
$20,188 
3.1.3 - Title Reports & Title Review (4) 
2 
$591 
$17,300.00 
$865 
$18,756 
3.1.4 - Geotechnical - Update Report 
2 
$591 
$2,440 
$122 
$3,153 
3.1.5 - Hydraulic Modeling & Analysis 
12 
40 
60 
$19,267 
$19,267 
50% Drawings 
24 
48 
100 
120 
120 
$61,865 
$38,000 
$6,000 
$2,200 
$400 
$108,465 
List of Technical Specifications, Special Provisions, Etc. 
2 
8 
$2,178 
$1,280 
$64 
$3,522 
Design Calculations 
2 
16 
20 
20 
$9,605 
$3,000 
$150 
$12,755 
50% Cost Estimate 
2 
4 
4 
4 
$2,553 
$1,000 
$50 
$3,603 
Task 4 - 90% Design 
62 
136 
152 
172 
80 
$101,250 
$46,280 
$16,906 
$1,290 
$8,000 
$3,623.80 
$400 
$177,749 
90% Drawings 
32 
60 
100 
120 
80 
$62,125 
$37,000 
$8,190 
$1,290 
$8,000 
$2,724 
$400 
$119,729 
Technical Specifications, Special Provisions, Etc. 
24 
60 
40 
40 
$30,674 
$5,280 
$1,134 
$321 
$37,408 
Design Calculations 
4 
12 
8 
8 
$5,898 
$3,000 
$7,582 
$529 
$17,009 
90% Cost Estimate 
2 
4 
4 
4 
$2,553 
$1,000 
$50 
$3,603 
Task 5 - 100% Design and Bid Documents 
46 
128 
152 
180 
64 
$94,178 
$25,440 
$6,186 
$6,000.00 
$1,881.30 
$600 
$134,285 
100% Drawings 
16 
48 
80 
100 
40 
$44,691 
$13,000 
$1,650 
$4,000 
$400 
$63,741 
Technical Specifications, Special Provisions, Etc. 
12 
32 
24 
24 
$16,902 
$3,500 
$734 
$21,136 
Design Calculations 
4 
12 
4 
4 
$4,730 
$1,000 
$734 
$6,464 
100% Cost Estimate 
2 
4 
4 
4 
$2,553 
$640 
$32 
$3,225 
Final Bid Documents 
12 
32 
40 
48 
24 
$25,303 
$7,300 
$3,068.00 
$2,000.00 
$618.40 
$200 
$38,489 
Task 6 - Bid Period Assistance 
12 
12 
8 
$6,824 
$6,000 
$348.00 
$317.40 
$100 
$200 
$13,789 
Phase 2 Total 
330 
36 
420 
496 
612 
272 
$381,879 
$124,000 
$24,650 
$35,400 
$3,730 
$20,000 
$88,520 
$14,815 
$300 
$1,600 
$694,894 
 
Phase 2 Optional Tasks 
Task A1 - Optional Tasks 
38 
16 
72 
116 
$41,144 
$12,900 
$83,747 
$20,420 
$17,000 
$420 $900.00 
$176,531 
A1.1 - Plat & Legal Descriptions for New Easements (2) 
4 
8 
$2,480 
$8,400 
$420 
$11,300 
A1.2 - Topographic Surveying of Pothole Locations 
2 
$591 
$4,500 
$5,091 
A1.3 - Poperty Appraisal Services for New Easement (1) 
4 
2 
$1,442 
$8,000 
$9,442 
A1.4 - Easement Negotiation/Acquisition Services (1) 
8 
2 
$2,625 
$9,000 
$11,625 
A1.5 - Utility E-Locates (3 Days) 
4 
8 
32 
$6,634 
$11,328 
$300 
$18,262 
A1.6 - Utility Potholing (25 Utilities) 
4 
8 
32 
$6,634 
$72,419 
$300 
$79,353 
A1.7 - Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration 
4 
8 
$2,480 
$20,420 
$300 
$23,200 
A1.8 - Water Main Relocation at Kehoe/16th Ave Channel 
8 
16 
40 
48 
$18,257 
$18,257 
Phase 2 Optional Tasks Total 
38 
16 
72 
116 
$41,144 
$12,900 
$83,747 
$20,420 
$17,000 
$420 
$900 
$176,531 
Phase 2 Total with Optional Tasks 
368 
36 
436 
568 
728 
272 
$423,022 
$124,000 
$24,650 
$48,300 
$3,730 
$83,747 
$20,000 
$108,940 
$17,000 
$15,235 
$1,200 
$1,600 
$871,424 
 
420 of 662

--- page 421 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  19
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5868
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Library Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
City Library Fines – Late Fee Elimination 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the elimination of late fines at all San Mateo public libraries. 
BACKGROUND:
After observing no adverse effects from not charging late fines during the pandemic, the Library is now ready to 
permanently eliminate them. After a thorough review of the matter, the SMPL Library Board of Trustees voted 4-1 at the 
July 26, 2021 meeting in support of fine elimination. Fine elimination was reviewed by the Council at the January 3, 2022 
special meeting. The relatively small amount collected no longer justifies the time and labor involved in charging late fines. 
Eliminating late fines will also help ease the financial burden on some library patrons and align us with our neighboring 
library systems, the overwhelming majority of whom have already ended the practicing of charging late fines. Fees will still 
be charged for unreturned library materials. Patrons will have short grace period and receive a reminder before being 
billed for unreturned items.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Because late fines have not been charged during the pandemic, the current operational budget and long-term financial 
plan already account for the loss of fine revenue.  There are no additional budgetary impacts of this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
James Moore, City Librarian
jmoore@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7802
421 of 662

--- page 422 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  20
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5878
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Service Employees International Union Non-Merit Part Time Unit – Memorandum of Understanding Extension
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to extend the Memorandum of Understanding with the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) 
Non-Merit Part Time Unit through June 10, 2023.
BACKGROUND:
This bargaining unit represents approximately 350 per diem workers throughout the City who work in excess of 416 hours 
per fiscal year. The current MOU expired on September 4, 2021. Negotiations with SEIU Local 521 were delayed due to a 
change in their local representative and COVID-19. 
The City’s Human Resources Department recommends extending this contract for another 21 months, from September 4, 
2021 through June 10, 2023. SEIU Local 521 has agreed to this extension, which will allow the parties time to negotiate a 
successor contract with the SEIU Maintenance Unit and assess the impact those negotiated changes may have on the SEIU 
Non-Merit Part Time Unit.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There will be no budget impact as a result of the SEIU Non-Merit Part Time Unit contract extension.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
            Exhibit A - Tentative Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Director of Human Resources
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
422 of 662

--- page 423 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022)
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE 
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (SEIU) 
NON-MERIT PART TIME UNIT
 
WHEREAS, the Service Employees International Union Local 521 Non-Merit Part Time Unit (“SEIU NMPT”) 
existing Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) expired on September 4, 2021; and
WHEREAS, the SEIU NMPT classifications are tied to classifications in other SEIU Units; and
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to continue the 
current terms and conditions of the existing MOU for twenty-one (21) months from September 4, 2021 through June 
10, 2023; and
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the Tentative Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Memorandum of Understanding extension is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is 
a government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in 
a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1. The existing Memorandum of Understanding for the SEIU NMPT Unit shall be extended for twenty-
one (21) months, from September 4, 2021 through June 10, 2023 as set forth in the Tentative 
Agreement attached as Exhibit A.
2. There is no budget impact for FY2022.
423 of 662

--- page 424 ---
DocuSign Envelope ID: 6CEOBCB1-E17C-454F-9906-2F09EAF1446D
Exhibit A

City of San Mateo and SEIU Local 521
Extension of Memorandum of Understanding for the Non-Merit Part-Time Unit

The City of San Mateo (“City”) and the Service Employees International Union Local 521
(“SEIU”) agree to a sixteen (16) month extension to the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
for employees in classifications represented by the Non-Merit Part-Time Unit. All terms and
conditions in the existing MOU and previous extension letters shall remain in full force and
effect unless modified by this Agreement.

This Agreement shall terminate as of 11:59 p.m., June 10, 2023.

SEIU 521 City of San Mateo

Feijen Bett

Roxanne Barnett

Teresa Abrahamsohn

2/11/2022
Dated: Atle

424 of 662


--- page 425 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  21
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5894
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Management Employees Association - Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the San Mateo Management Employees 
Association to modify the salary increases.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo Management Employees Association (SMMEA) represents approximately 100 employees in management 
and supervisory positions throughout the City. 
Prior to the pandemic, the City’s General Fund Long-Term Financial Plan assumed annual employee salary increases of two 
percent (2%). Due to the immediate and severe impact to transient occupancy tax and sales tax revenues caused by the 
COVID-19 pandemic, the City chose to tap into the Rainy-Day Reserve to prevent layoffs and conduct concession 
bargaining. SMMEA was the first bargaining unit to agree to concessions that were equivalent to zero percent (0%) salary 
increases in fiscal years 2022 and 2023 to support the Financial Stability Plan. This agreement was reached on September 
2, 2020. The Memorandum of Understanding included a reopener clause that if the General Fund actual revenues for FY 
2021-22 and FY 2022-23 were greater than or equal to $141.4M, the City would reopen negotiations for potential 
compensation increases. 
The Adopted 2021-22 Budget assumed zero percent (0%) salary increases for members of SMMEA. The mid-year budget 
update presented to the City Council on January 18, 2022, projected increased General Fund revenues of $10.7 million and 
decreased expenditures of $2.8 million with projected revenues of $155.2M. This increase triggered the reopener clause 
and provides funds to support salary increases. 
Negotiations with the San Mateo Management Employees Association concluded on February 9, 2022, and the 
membership subsequently ratified the proposed changes to its Memorandum of Understanding. Consistent with the 
direction provided by the City Council, negotiators for the City and the bargaining unit have reached agreement. These 
agreements include: 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective April 3, 2022, and a 4.0% increase effective April 2, 
2023. 
Deferred Compensation: The City’s contribution will return to 1.5% on April 3, 2022.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Approval of the compensation resolution results in an increase of $237,493 in total compensation for SMMEA members 
425 of 662

--- page 426 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
for the remainder of the fiscal year. It is projected that there are sufficient budget appropriations in the 2021-22 operating 
budget to absorb the additional cost. Updated salary and benefit amounts for these positions will be incorporated into the 
2022-23 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
            Exhibit A - Tentative Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Director of Human Resources
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
426 of 662

--- page 427 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
 
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE  
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SAN MATEO MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION 
 
 
WHEREAS, the amendments are related to salary and other compensation; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to amend the 
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) of the San Mateo Management Employees Association (Unit); and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the amendment to the MOU (Tentative Agreement); and 
 
WHEREAS, no appropriation of additional funds to the Fiscal Year 2021-22 Budget is necessary; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Tentative Agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal 
activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).) 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:  
 
1. The amendment to the Memorandum of Understanding for the San Mateo Management Employees 
Association, set forth in the Tentative Agreement attached as Exhibit A, is approved and summarized 
as follows: 
 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective April 3, 2022, and a 4.0% 
increase effective April 2, 2023.  
 
Deferred Compensation: The City’s contribution will return to 1.5% on April 3, 2022. 
 
2. There is no budget impact in the current fiscal year for these recommended changes, as any 
increases can be absorbed within existing operating budgets. Updated salary and benefit amounts 
for these positions will be incorporated into the Fiscal Year 2022-23 budget. 
427 of 662

--- page 428 ---
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING 
Between the San Mateo Management Employees’ Association and the 
City of San Mateo 
7.4  Compensation Increases During the Term of this Agreement 
Effective April 5, 2020, the Unit will receive an across the board increase of 2.5%. Effective April 
4, 2021, the Unit will receive an across the board increase of 2.0%. Effective April 3, 2022, the 
Unit will receive an across the board increase of 14.0%. Effective April 2, 2023, the Unit will 
receive an across the board increase of 14.0%. Effective March 31, 2024, the Unit will receive an 
across the board increase of 1.0%.  
In the event that the City’s General Fund actual revenues for fiscal years 2021-22 and 2022-23 are 
greater than or equal to $141.4M and $144.6M, respectively, the City will reopen negotiations 
with the Association for potential compensation increases. The City’s ability to potentially provide 
additional compensation will also factor in expenditures, particularly those related to pension and 
healthcare costs, that are greater than expected. 
25.4 
Deferred Compensation for Members of the Bargaining Unit 
Employees are eligible to participate in the City-offered deferred compensation 457 plans. The 
City shall pay biweekly contributions of an amount equal to 1.5% of the employee’s base salary 
into his/her deferred compensation 457 plan for all Association members. Effective June 27, 2021, 
the City’s contribution shall be 0.50%. Effective June 25, 2023, the City’s contribution shall be 
0.75%. The City’s contribution shall return to 1.5% on June 23April 3, 20242022. 
Effective May 7, 2017, on a biweekly basis the City shall match up to an additional 1.0% of an 
employee’s contribution into his/her deferred compensation 457 plan for all Association members. 
Effective with the City’s change to the calculation of the FLSA overtime rate to exclude ‘pool 
money’ (the City contribution to the cost of medical insurance premiums) from the calculation, for 
employees in non-exempt classifications only hired on or before the effective date of the change, 
the City shall make bi-weekly contributions of an amount equal to zero point nine percent (0.9%) 
of the employee’s base salary into his/her deferred compensation 457 plan in recognition that ‘pool 
money’ will no longer be included in calculation of the FLSA overtime rate. This contribution 
ceases when the employee leaves the bargaining unit or moves into an exempt classification. 
Dated: 
FOR THE SMMEA 
FOR THE CITY OF SAN MATEO 
By: 
By: 
Kevin Kobayashi, President 
Teresa Abrahamsohn,  
Human Resources Director 
cc: 
Prasanna Rasiah, City Attorney 
Erin Offield, Payroll Supervisor 
Human Resources Staff 
			
	

Exhibit A
428 of 662

--- page 429 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  22
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5895
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Police Officers’ Association – Memorandum of Understanding Amendment
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to amend the Memorandum of Understanding with the City of San Mateo Police Officers’ Association 
for a term through January 6, 2024.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo Police Officers’ Association (hereafter “Association”) represents 109 employees. 
The contract with this bargaining unit expired on June 30, 2021. Negotiations with the Association concluded on February 
25, 2022, and the membership subsequently ratified the proposed changes to its Memorandum of Understanding. 
Consistent with the direction provided by the City Council, negotiators for the City and the bargaining unit have reached 
agreement. These agreements include: 
Term: The contract will be for a period of two and one-half years, expiring on January 6, 2024. 
Salary: The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective April 3, 2022, and a 4.0% increase effective July 9, 
2023. 
Retirement Health Savings (RHS) Contributions: The first full pay period upon Council approval the City will contribute $500 
per employee per month to the PORAC Retiree Medical Trust (The Trust), which replaces the City contribution to the 
existing 401(h) and the RHS account. 
Training Differential: Effective April 3, 2022, the City will increase the differential from 5.0% to 8.0% for non-Senior 
Dispatchers when assigned to serve as a member of the Training Team. 
Other: There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language that amend some of 
the terms and conditions of the contract.
BUDGET IMPACT:
A supplemental budget appropriation of available fund balance in the General Fund in the amount of $233,777 for the 
Police Department’s 2021-22 operating budget is required to accommodate the negotiated increases.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
429 of 662

--- page 430 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A - Tentative Agreements
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Director of Human Resources
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
430 of 662

--- page 431 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2022) 
 
APPROVING AMENDMENTS TO THE MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE  
CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE SAN MATEO POLICE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION 
  
 
WHEREAS, the amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding Between the City of San Mateo and the 
San Mateo Police Officers Association (Unit) are related to salary, term, other compensation and miscellaneous 
language changes relating to departmental operations, and language clarity for the Unit; and  
 
 
WHEREAS, the parties have met and conferred, and have reached tentative agreement to amend the Unit’s 
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU); and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Unit has ratified the amendments to the MOU (Tentative Agreement); and 
 
 
WHEREAS, an appropriation of additional funds to the Fiscal Year 2021-22 Budget is necessary to finance 
these increases; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the MOU is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which 
does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical 
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).) 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
 
1. The amendments to the Memorandum of Understanding for the City of San Mateo Police Officers 
Association Unit, set forth in the Tentative Agreement attached as Exhibit A, are approved and 
summarized as follows: 
 
Term:  The contract will be for a period of two and one half (2.5) expiring on January 6, 2024. 
Salary:  The bargaining unit will receive a 4.0% salary increase effective April 3, 2022, and a 4.0% 
increase effective July 9, 2023.  
Retirement Health Savings (RHS) Contributions: The first full pay period upon Council approval the 
City will contribute $500 per employee per month to the PORAC Retiree Medical Trust (The Trust), 
which replaces the City contribution to the existing 401(h) and the RHS account. 
Training Differential: Effective April 3, 2022, the City will increase the differential from 5.0% to 8.0% 
for non-Senior Dispatchers when assigned to serve as a member of the Training Team. 
Other:  There are language changes relating to departmental operations and housekeeping language 
that amend some of the terms and conditions of the contract. 
 
2. A supplemental appropriation of $233,777 into the Fiscal Year 2021-22 Budget for the updated 
salary and benefits is authorized to finance these increases. 
431 of 662

--- page 432 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo 
2021 Negotiations
Tentative Agreement
Article 34 – Salaries
34.1
Compensation Increases During the Term of this Agreement
Effective the pay period of October 21April 3, 2018 2022 all represented classifications 
will receive an across the board increase of two four percent (24%). Furthermore, in 
recognition of the need to recruit and retain highly qualified personnel, the Police Officer 
classification shall receive an additional one percent (1%) increase.
Effective June July 309, 2019 2023 all represented classifications will receive an across 
the board increase of two four percent (24%).  Furthermore, in recognition of the need to 
recruit and retain highly qualified personnel, the Police Officer classification shall receive 
an additional one percent (1%) increase.
Effective June 28, 2020 all represented classifications will receive an across the board 
increase of two percent (2%).  Furthermore, in recognition of the need to recruit and retain 
highly qualified personnel, the Police Officer classification shall receive an additional one 
percent (1%) increase.
The salary of a Police Officer Trainee will remain fixed at 85% of step one of Police 
Officers.
Notice of Union ratification needs to be received by the City no later than 5:00 pm March 11,
2022, in order for the above provisions to occur. 
Date:  ___________________________
For the POA:
For the City:
____________________________
_______________________________



	

Exhibit A
432 of 662

--- page 433 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement  
 
 
 
Article 42 – Termination of Agreement 
 
This Agreement shall terminate as of the close of business at midnight, June 30January 6, 
202120224. 
 
The existing and unmodified rules, regulations, resolutions, or ordinances relating to wages, hours 
and conditions of employment not covered in this Agreement for employees in this Unit shall 
remain unchanged for said period unless such changes are the result of meeting and conferring as 
required by law. 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: 766D010E-3140-4D95-8DC2-103FEE6C6B48
3/4/2022
433 of 662

--- page 434 ---
City of San Mateo and Police Officers’ Association Unit 
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
 
4.5.2 Court Appearance. 
 
F. 
Employees who obtain a "standby relationship" with court officials will not be 
entitled to court overtime pay for hours spent away from the court awaiting call or 
recall to the court.  They shall be paid a minimum hour flat 1.251.5 hours at the 
MOU Overtime Rate of pay for any day they are assigned to “standby”.  Any time 
spent on standby beyond one hour in a single day will qualify for standby pay as 
described in this MOU. Employees must report within 90 minutes of being called 
to physically appear in court.   If the employee is called to court during the standby 
period, the employee will be paid at the established standby rate for actual time 
spent on stand-by.  In addition, tIf required to appear, the employee will be paid 
Court Overtime for the appearance as established in this article. 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: C747CAAC-26B5-4FAA-B8BE-FC7E75198D48
3/4/2022
434 of 662

--- page 435 ---
City of San Mateo and Police Officers’ Association Unit 
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
 
Article 25 - Master Officer 
 
The purpose of the Master Office Program is to recognize those officers who have distinguished 
themselves at the highest level of professionalism through specialized skills and who exhibit the 
highest degree of productivity and leadership by utilizing their specialized skills in their day-to-
day activities in accordance with SMPD Policy. 
 
 
 
Qualification Requirements: 
 
 
A. 
Master Officer I 
• Eligible after seven (7) years of San Mateo Police Department service as a 
Police Officer. 
• Possession of an Advanced POST Certificate. 
• Accumulation of two (2) “points” of specialty assignments. 
• Receives/Maintains an “exceeds standards” yearly evaluation. 
• Paid a 3.0% differential. 
 
B. 
Master Officer II 
• Eligible after fourteen (14) years of San Mateo Police Department service as a 
Police Officer. 
• Possession of an Advanced POST Certificate. 
• Accumulation of three (3) “points” of specialty assignments. 
• Receives/Maintains an “exceeds standards” yearly evaluation. 
• Paid an additional 2.0% differential, for a total of 5% differential. 
 
C. 
Master Officer III 
• Eligible after twenty-one (21) years of San Mateo Police Department service 
as a Police Officer. 
• Possession of an Advanced POST Certificate. 
• Accumulation of four (4) “points” of specialty assignments. 
• Receives/Maintains an “exceeds standards” yearly evaluation. 
• Paid an additional 2.0% differential, for a total of 7% differential. 
 
All earned Master Officer Differentials will be paid in addition to any other earned 
differentials. 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 33E46FB2-17D6-4085-8B63-6B891083022D
3/4/2022
435 of 662

--- page 436 ---
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 33E46FB2-17D6-4085-8B63-6B891083022D
436 of 662

--- page 437 ---
February 26, 2021 
City of San Mateo and Police Officers’ Association Unit 
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
 
27.6 
Vacation Scheduling 
 
The time at which employees may take their vacation shall be determined by the 
Department Head, with due regard for the wishes of the employee and the needs of the 
service. However, the City recognizes that premium vacation time is a sought after 
commodity, and therefore agrees that to the extent possible, vacation shall be allowed for 
at least two (2) police officers at a time form each of the four (4) shifts. 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8D752B58-EE9D-47A9-8DF7-2659AD2B0646
3/4/2022
437 of 662

--- page 438 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
15.4 
Removal of Documents from Personnel File 
 
Only records related to Internal Affairs Investigations resulting in a “sustained” finding 
will be kept in an employee’s Personnel File. Records related to Internal Investigations 
resulting in “Not Sustained”, “Exonerated”, or “Unfounded” findings shall not be placed 
in the employee’s Personnel File, but will be separately maintained for the appropriate 
retention period in the employee’s Internal Affairs File. 
 
After a five (5) year period, if there has not been subsequent discipline, the City shall 
remove from the employee’s Internal Affairs File, any written record of an Internal Affairs 
Investigation resulting in “Exonerated” or “Unfounded” findings upon employee written 
request to the Chief of Police. The City shall notify the employee when the record has been 
removed. 
 
After a five (5) year period, if there has not been subsequent discipline, an employee may 
petition the City to remove from the employee’s Internal Affairs File any record of a “Not 
Sustained” finding, or from the employee’s Personnel File and any record of a “Sustained” 
finding except those sustained findings for allegations of dishonesty, moral turpitude, use 
of excessive force, or intentional destruction of private property. Any such request shall be 
submitted to the Chief of Police. The City shall notify the employee of its decision, whether 
or not to remove the record. 
 
After a five (5) year period, if the employee has not been involved in any subsequent “Party 
Most at Fault” or “Avoidable” (“Avoidable” for purpose of administrative review or 
progressive discipline) traffic collisions, the city shall remove from the employee’s 
personnel file, or any other file used by the employer for any personnel purpose, any written 
record of prior traffic collisions upon employee written request to the Chief of Police. The 
City shall notify the employee that the written record has been removed. 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 42BFD643-12AD-4B5E-9194-C156B5C30FC7
3/4/2022
438 of 662

--- page 439 ---
City of San Mateo and Police Officers’ Association Unit 
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
Article 26 – Holidays 
 
26.1 
Holidays 
 
The holidays to be observed are as follows: 
 
 
A. 
New Year's Day 
 
 
 
January 1st. 
 
B. 
Martin Luther King's Birthday 
 
3rd Monday in January 
 
C. 
Presidents’ Day 
 
 
 
3rd Monday in February 
 
D. 
Memorial Day  
 
 
 
Last Monday in May 
 
E. 
Independence Day 
 
 
 
July 4th 
 
F. 
Labor Day 
 
 
 
 
1st Monday in September 
 
G. 
Veteran's Day  
 
 
 
November 11 
 
H. 
Thanksgiving Day 
 
 
 
4th Thursday in November 
 
I. 
Day after Thanksgiving 
 
 
4th Friday in November 
 
J. 
Christmas Day 
 
 
 
December 25th 
K. 
Every day approved by the City Council as a public holiday, public fast, 
thanksgiving or day of mourning. 
L. 
Floating holidays are to be taken on working days mutually agreeable to the 
employee and the department.  CSO’s and sworn safety personnelEmployees 
receive three (3) floating holidays annually. 
 
26.2 
Weekend Holidays 
 
When a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed. Employees who 
are not assigned a special holiday schedule shall be compensated for established holidays 
that fall on a Saturday by permitting approximately one-half (1/2) of the employees to 
celebrate the holiday on the Friday immediately preceding the Saturday holiday and the 
balance of the employees to celebrate the holiday on the following Monday.  The 
employees shall receive seven calendar days’ notice of the holiday schedule.  City offices 
shall remain open on both days.  If it is inconvenient to grant either day as a holiday, the 
equivalent time off shall be granted under the conditions provided in Section 27.5. 
 
26.3 
Special Holiday Schedule 
 
Employees who are assigned a special holiday schedule because they cannot take holidays 
when they fall shall be compensated for holidays as follows: 
 
A. 
Such employees shall be compensated for thirteen (13) holidays a year by the 
granting of 4.0 hours of holiday credit per pay period.  Such time off shall be taken 
off under the conditions specified in Section 27.5. This holiday credit is not reported 
DocuSign Envelope ID: F871D53F-7B99-4493-B6F5-319DEDB51B43
439 of 662

--- page 440 ---
to CalPERS as compensation. 
 
B. 
Such employees shall be compensated for special holidays declared by competent 
authority by the granting of equivalent time off under the conditions specified in 
Section 27.5. 
 
26.4 
Authorized Holidays 
 
Other merit system employees shall be compensated for holidays authorized or those 
declared by competent authority by the granting of equivalent time off under the conditions 
specified in Section 26.5. 
 
26.5 
Holidays Worked 
 
 
If employees are required by the City to work on any of the above holidays, they shall be 
granted equivalent time off for holiday compensation under the following conditions: 
 
A. 
Such time off shall be taken at the discretion of the Department Head, with due 
regard for the desires of the employee and the workload of the department. 
 
B. 
Such equivalent time off shall never accumulate to more than forty (40) hours. 
 
 
In the event one (1) or more holidays fall within an annual vacation leave of an employee 
who receives holiday time off, such holidays shall not be charged as vacation leave. 
 
26.6 
Holiday Payment 
 
Employees who have completed probation who have taken, or are scheduled to take, at 
least eighty (80) hours of vacation during a calendar year may, at their option, make an 
irrevocable election to sell back up to one hundred four (104) hours of accumulated 
holiday, vacation or annual leave or a combination thereof at the employee's established 
rate of pay plus all applicable differentials. 
 
Requests to sell back must be received by Payroll no later than December 31st for the 
following year elections. No employee can sell back more than their current annual 
vacation accrual in the calendar year. Elected hours not requested for distribution (sell 
back) by December 1st will be automatically distributed in the next pay period (sell back 
cannot be more than the hours available at time of distribution). 
 
Employees joining the bargaining unit with leave balances in excess of the maximum 
accumulation of leave hours will automatically sell back the number of hours required to 
meet the maximum accumulation allowed. 
 
26.7 
Holiday Allowance for Employees at Termination 
 
Employees who terminate shall be paid in a lump sum for all accrued holiday leave with 
DocuSign Envelope ID: F871D53F-7B99-4493-B6F5-319DEDB51B43
440 of 662

--- page 441 ---
calculations based upon the employee’s regular rate of pay. 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: F871D53F-7B99-4493-B6F5-319DEDB51B43
3/4/2022
441 of 662

--- page 442 ---
City of San Mateo and Police Officers’ Association Unit 
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
Article 4 – Overtime 
 
4.3 
Overtime Payment/Compensatory Time 
 
 
An employee who accrues compensatory time for overtime worked under the provisions 
of Section 54.1 above may waive direct payment of overtime and in lieu thereof may 
accumulate time off at the one and one-half (1-1/2) rate to a maximum of one hundred and 
thirty-two (132) hours. 
 
 
 
Article 12 – Leave of Absence Without Pay 
 
12.1 
Family Care Leave 
 
 
In accordance with the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act effective August 5, 1993, 
and the California Family Rights Act effective October 4, 1993, the City will grant job 
protected unpaid family and medical leave to eligible workers for up to twelve (12) weeks 
per twelve (12) month period for any or more of the following reasons:. 
 
A. 
The birth of a child and in order to care for such child or the placement of a child 
with the worker for adoption or foster care (leave for this reason must be taken 
within the twelve (12) month period following the child's birth or placement with 
the employee); or 
 
B. 
In order to care for an immediate family member (spouse, child, domestic partner 
or parent) of the worker if such immediate family member has a serious health 
condition.  For purposes of this section, "child" is anyone under eighteen (18) years 
who is the worker's biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild, legal ward, or an 
adult dependent child.  "Parents" include biological, foster, and adoptive parents, 
stepparents, and legal guardians; or 
 
C. 
The worker's own serious health condition that makes the worker unable to perform 
the functions of their position. 
 
In general, Family Medical Leave is available to workers for:  the birth or adoption of a 
child or placement of a foster child; care for an immediate family member of the worker if 
such immediate family member has a serious health condition; or the worker’s own serious 
health condition that makes the worker unable to perform the functions of their position. 
 
The City will shall adhere to applicable Federal and State laws regarding Family and 
Medical Leave.  For specific conditions governing Family Medical Leave, please refer to 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 4C91BB1F-EAFF-4E5F-8736-368456276225
442 of 662

--- page 443 ---
the City Policy. 
 
The following provisions apply to Family Care Leave: 
 
A. 
Eligible worker means having been employed for the City for twelve (12) months 
and having worked at least one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) hours during the 
twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the commencement of the leave. 
 
B. 
Medical verification is required for worker or ill family member for the medical 
leave period. 
 
C. 
Workers are required to give at least thirty (30) days written notice in the event of 
a foreseeable leave.  In unexpected or unforeseeable situations, a worker should 
provide as much written notice as is practicable. 
 
D. 
Workers may use accrued vacation as part of the family leave period.  Use of sick 
leave is not required but may be used under the same regulations governing the use 
of sick leave.  Use of sick leave does not extend the maximum four (4) month period 
of family care leavePregnancy Disability Leave Act. 
 
E. 
Should both parents work for the City, each may be granted up to twelve (12) weeks 
leave. 
 
F. 
Maternity leave under state law is accounted for separately.  Pursuant to State Law, 
an employee is eligible for up to four (4) months leave. 
 
G. 
Health benefit premiums shall be made in accordance with the Federal Family and 
Medical Leave Act and the California Family Rights Act.  Under the current law, 
the City will continue health coverage under the same conditions as coverage would 
have been provided if the worker had been continuously employed during the leave 
period. 
 
H. 
Workers taking family care leave will be returned to the same or comparable job 
with the same pay at the conclusion of their leave. 
 
I. 
Family care leave will not constitute a break in service for purposes of any 
employee benefit plan.  Employees returning from leave shall return with no less 
seniority than accumulated on the date leave began. 
 
J. 
Where seniority is used for purposes of vacation and/or shift bidding, family care 
leave shall not result in a loss of department seniority. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 4C91BB1F-EAFF-4E5F-8736-368456276225
443 of 662

--- page 444 ---
Article 15 - Disciplinary Procedure 
 
15.1 
Definition of "Disciplinary Action." 
 
The term "disciplinary action" shall include the following actions which may be taken by 
a Department Head: 
 
A. 
Letter of reprimand issued to Police Officers, provided that no pre-disciplinary 
(Skelly) proceedings are required; 
 
B. 
Suspension without pay up to thirty (30) calendar days; 
 
C. 
Withholding in-grade salary increase (merit pay) under Article 4 shall not be 
considered discipline and not subject to the principles of Article 14; 
 
D. 
In-grade salary reduction; 
 
 
E. 
Demotion; or 
 
 
F. 
Dismissal. 
 
 
Article 24 – Duty Differentials 
 
24.1 
Bomb UnitHazard Pay 
 
 
 
The Chief may establish a bomb unit.  Officer(s) assigned this hazardous detail shall 
receive five percent (5%) biweekly in addition to their regular pay. This is Special 
Compensation paid to employees who are routinely and consistently exposed to toxic, 
radioactive, explosive, or other hazardous substance or perform hazardous activities to 
implement health or safety procedures. 
 
24.2 
Standby Pay 
 
 
Officers placed on standby alert by the Police Chief or their designee shall receive extra 
compensation at the rate of twelve and one-half percent (12 1/2%) of their hourly rate. 
 
 
For purposes of this section, standby alert shall include "on call" status by detectives or 
other Officers designated by the Chief of Police or their designee. 
 
24.3 
Canine DifferentialCare 
 
 
Officers assigned canine responsibilities will receive two (2) hours credit which will accrue 
at the level of three hours (to comply with FLSA) leave per work week, in recognition of 
the time spent in the care, grooming, feeding, and activities related to canine handling. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 4C91BB1F-EAFF-4E5F-8736-368456276225
444 of 662

--- page 445 ---
24.4 
Other Duty Differentials (Special Compensation) 
 
Officers assigned to the following special assignments Traffic Detail, Canine, PAL/Youth 
Services, Downtown Unit, Training ManagerCoordinator, Crime Reduction Unit, and 
Press Information Officer and School Resource assignments shall receive 5% biweekly in 
addition to their regular pay. 
 
Motorcycle Patrol Premium - This is Special Compensation paid to police officers who are 
routinely and consistently assigned to operate and/or patrol on motorcycle. 
 
Canine Officer/Animal Premium - This is Special Compensation paid to police officers 
who are routinely and consistently assigned to handle, train, and board a canine or horse. 
Compensation shall not include veterinarian fees, feed, or other reimbursable expenses for 
upkeep of the animal. 
 
Juvenile Officer Premium - This is Special Compensation paid to police officers in 
PAL/Youth Services who are routinely and consistently assigned to enforce laws that 
restrict the activities of juveniles. 
 
Police Investigator Premium - This is Special Compensation paid to police officers in the 
Downtown   Unit   who   are routinely   and consistently   assigned to analyze   crimes or 
investigate accidents. 
 
Gang Detail Assignment Premium - This is Special Compensation to police officers in the 
Crime Reduction Unit (CRU) who are routinely and consistently assigned to enforce laws 
relating to a group of individuals banded together for unlawful activities. 
 
D.A.R.E. Premium - This is Special Compensation to School Resource police officers who 
routinely and consistently provide training to students on drug abuse resistance. 
 
Detective Division Premium - This is Special Compensation to police officers who are 
routinely and consistently assigned to a detective or investigative division or intelligence 
duties in the Investigative Services Division or when assigned full-time in an outside Task 
Force. 
 
A five percent (5%) work differential will be paid to those Detectives in the Investigative 
Services Division, to include when assigned full-time to an outside Task Force. 
 
24.5 
Training DifferentialPremium 
 
This is Special Compensation paid to employees who are routinely and consistently 
assigned to train employees. 
 
 
Police Officers assigned as field training officers shall receive eight percent (8%) biweekly 
in addition to their regular pay for such duty and associated overtime. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 4C91BB1F-EAFF-4E5F-8736-368456276225
445 of 662

--- page 446 ---
Community Service Officers - in non-specialty assignments who are assigned training of 
field CSO’s - shall receive eight percent (8%) biweekly in addition to their regular pay for 
such duty and associated overtime. 
 
When the manager/sergeant supervisor responsible for the communications center assigns 
a non-Senior Dispatcher to serve as a member of the Training Team, the employee will 
receive a 5% differential while training entry-level probationary Dispatchers relative to the 
technical dispatch duties. Dispatchers who are not part of the Training Team are not eligible 
to receive the differential. 
 
24.6 
Bilingual Differential (Special Compensation) 
 
 
Based on the City and community need and the language proficiency of the employee, the 
Human Resources Director may approve bilingual pay for Police Officers’ Association 
classifications upon the recommendation of the Department Head.  Approval will only be 
given where the employee’s bilingual skill is regularly used in the course of City business. 
 
Bilingual premium pay shall be $181.96 biweekly for eligible Police Officers, $125.44 for 
eligible Community Service Officers and $90.00 biweekly for eligible Senior 
Dispatchers/Dispatchers, and shall become payable the first day of the pay period following 
proficiency certification. Effective October 11, 2015, bilingual premium pay shall be 
increased to $200.00 biweekly for eligible Police Officers and $138.46 biweekly for 
eligible Community Service Officers, Senior Dispatchers and Dispatchers. If a bilingual 
qualified employee works less than full-time, the biweekly differential will be prorated.  If 
an employee is off work for over 30 consecutive calendar days, the employee will not 
receive the bilingual differential for the remainder of the leave; this will not take effect if 
the employee is out on 4850 disability leave. 
 
In order to ensure that employees retain bilingual proficiency, a periodic requalification 
may be required and will be administered by the Human Resources Department. 
 
24.7 
Community Service Officer – Differential 
 
A. 
A Community Service Officer serving in one of the positions designated in this 
subsection shall receive an eight percent (8%) increment/differential above his or 
her base salary for the regular position of Community Service Officer.  This 
increment/differential will be on base salary which does not include any other 
differential such as bilingual pay, etc. 
 
B. 
The Chief of Police shall have exclusive authority to appoint or to remove at their 
pleasure Community Service Officers assigned to the following areas:  
Investigations; Court Liaison; and Traffic; and Support Services. 
 
The Community Service Officer assigned to Traffic is routinely and 
consistently assigned to read parking meters and cite drivers who have 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 4C91BB1F-EAFF-4E5F-8736-368456276225
446 of 662

--- page 447 ---
violated parking laws; this differential is reported as special compensation 
(Parking Citation Premium). 
 
The Community Service Officer assigned as the Court Liaison is routinely and 
consistently assigned to handle police records a n d  case files, including 
h a n d l i n g  records requests from the District Attorney’s office; this differential 
is reported as special compensation (Police Records Assignment P r e m i u m ). 
 
The Community Service Officer assigned to Support Services in the Police 
Activities League (PAL) is routinely and consistently assigned to a lead or 
supervisory   position   over   other   employees, agency-sponsored   participants, 
or volunteers; the PAL/Support Services differential is reported as special 
compensation (Lead Worker/Supervisor P r e m i u m ). 
 
C. 
Neither appointment to nor removal from such assignments shall be considered to 
be a grievance or discipline and no appeal may be taken from the Chief’s decision. 
 
D. 
Up to six (6) positions may be assigned by the Chief of Police.  The Chief shall not 
be obligated to fill all six (6) positions. 
 
24.8 
Shift Differential (Special Compensation) 
 
Employees in the classifications of Dispatcher I/II and Senior Dispatcher who work the 
“Overlap”, “Swing Shift” or “Midnights” shall be compensated by the payment of an 
additional five percent (5%) of their base pay for that shift.  Shift differential does not apply 
to overtime hours worked, however, employees working one of the designated shifts as 
part of a shift trade shall receive the shift differential. 
 
 
Article 27 - Annual Leave Program 
 
27.2 
Vacation Allowance: Non-Safety 
 
A. 
Each non-safety employee shall be granted eighty-eight (88) hours credit for 
vacation with pay on the day following completion of one (1) year of continuous 
service.  Thereafter, for each additional biweekly pay period of service, the 
employee shall accrue vacation with pay at the beginning of the following biweekly 
pay period as 
 
 
Article 28 – Sick Leave 
 
28.4 
Protected Sick Leave 
 
 
Protected sick leave may be taken, and if taken, shall be charged to sick leave or, with the 
concurrence of the department head, to vacation, holiday, or compensatory time off (CTO) 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 4C91BB1F-EAFF-4E5F-8736-368456276225
447 of 662

--- page 448 ---
leave, for the following reasons: 
 
• The diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or 
preventative care for, an employee. 
• The diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or 
preventative care for, an employee’s family member, as defined in California 
Labor Code 245.5(c). 
• 
An employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking. 
 
Not more than seventy-two (72) hours of protected sick leave shall be granted in any one 
(1) year. However, if extenuating circumstances exist at the discretion of the Department 
Head and the Human Resources Director, a reasonable extension of the seventy-two (72) 
hour limit may be granted by the Department Head.  Any additional leave so granted shall 
be charged against the employee's accumulated sick leave. 
 
 
Article 29 - Annual Leave Program 
 
B.5) 
Sick Leave Balance Upon Conversion.  Any balance of sick leave hours shall be retained 
by the employee.  Sick leave hours shall be retained until used or paid in accordance to 
Memorandum of Understanding.  The maximum sick leave hours which can be converted 
for payment upon retirement under annual leave is one hundred fifty (150) days. 
 
B.12) Effective with the first full pay period in January, 1992, the limit for payment for unused 
accumulated sick leave for employees participating in the annual leave program upon 
service retirement shall be raised from one hundred twenty (120) days to one hundred fifty 
(150) days at fifty percent (50%) of the total number of days accumulated; i.e., a maximum 
of seventy-five (75) days. 
 
 
B.17) Protected Sick Leave. 
 
Protected sick leave may be taken and, if taken, shall be charged to annual leave for the 
following reasons: 
 
• The diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care 
for, an employee. 
• The diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or preventative care 
for, an employee’s family member, as defined in California Labor Code 245.5(c). 
• 
An employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking. 
 
Not more than seventy-two (72) hours of such family protected sick leave shall be granted 
in any one year for the diagnosis, care, or treatment of an existing health condition of, or 
preventative care for, an employee’s family member.  However, if extenuating 
circumstances exist in the opinion of the Department Head, a reasonable extension of the 
seventy-two (72) hour limit may be granted.  Additional leave so granted shall be charged 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 4C91BB1F-EAFF-4E5F-8736-368456276225
448 of 662

--- page 449 ---
against the employee's accumulated sick or annual leave, at the employee's option. 
 
 
Article 33 – Economic Benefits other than Salary 
 
33.2 
Uniform and Equipment Allowance 
 
A. 
Initial Uniform Allowance 
 
Prior to graduation from the Police Academy or upon hire for CSO’s and lateral 
entry officers, the City shall provide uniforms which shall consist of the following: 
 
1. 
Police Safety Personnel 
• 
1 long sleeve shirt w/patch 
• 
2 short sleeve shirts w/patch 
• 
2 pairs of pants w/braid 
• 
1 car coat w/patch 
• 
1 dress jacket w/patch 
• 
1 tie 
• 
1 belt 
• 
1 hat and cap piece 
• 
1 white shirt 
• 
1 pair shoes or boots 
 
2. 
Community Service Officers 
• 
1 long sleeve shirt w/patch 
• 
2 short sleeve shirts w/patch 
• 
2 pairs of pants 
• 
1 car coat w/patch 
• 
1 dress jacket w/patch 
• 
1 belt 
• 
1 pair shoes or boots 
 
If a new hire fails to successfully complete probation, the uniform will be returned to the 
City. 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 4C91BB1F-EAFF-4E5F-8736-368456276225
3/4/2022
449 of 662

--- page 450 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
4.7 
Patrol Officers' Alternative Scheduling Plan 
 
A. 
Definitions:  The following definitions shall apply to this Section only: 
 
1) 
"Work Cycle" shall mean a twenty-eight (28) day period, beginning on a 
day determined by the City.  This work cycle definition is intended to be 
consistent with definitions of a "work" period under FLSA. 
 
2) 
"Work Day" shall mean continuous period of on-the-job time in accordance 
with the Department’s schedule. 
 
B. 
Scheduling.  Officers assigned to duty in Patrol will be scheduled for work days of 
eleven (11) hours and twenty (20) minutes in length, and will work on a four-on, 
four-off cycle, with a scheduled short 8-hour day to stay within FLSA. Hours 
worked beyond eight (8) on the ‘short day’ are compensated as overtime at time 
and one-half. If off-work on the 8-hour day, eight (8) hours of leave are recorded 
and no overtime. Overtime is not reported to CalPERS as compensation.   The City 
will credit individual Officer accounts at the first of the year and debit at the end of 
each work cycle as follows: 
 
1) 
Any work hours worked in excess of one hundred sixty (160) working hours 
and less than one hundred seventy-one (171) working hours during a work 
cycle shall be paid for at time and one-half in accordance with the FLSA. 
 
2) 
Compensation for any work performed beyond the work day of eleven (11) 
hours and twenty (20) minutes will be paid overtime at the rate of time and 
one-half at the MOU Overtime Rate. 
 
3) 
Court appearance overtime will be compensated for as provided in Article 
4.5, except that pursuant to Article 4.3, the employee will determine the 
method of payment. 
 
C. 
The Police Chief may make changes to the scheduling plan up to and including 
terminate this programtermination at any time after meeting with the Officers' 
Association and providing written notice of schedule change to the Officers' 
Association. 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 54613710-E7EC-47FC-AF03-306EBAC20558
450 of 662

--- page 451 ---
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 54613710-E7EC-47FC-AF03-306EBAC20558
3/4/2022
451 of 662

--- page 452 ---
City of San Mateo and Police Officers’ Association Unit 
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
 
Article 4 - Overtime 
 
4.1 
Definitions 
 
A. 
Regular overtime is authorized time worked, except emergency overtime, by an 
employee in excess of their normally scheduled tour of duty. 
 
B. 
Emergency overtime is authorized time worked by an employee when he or she is 
contacted outside of his or her regular working hours and is requested to report to 
duty because of an emergency.  Emergency, within the meaning of this Section, 
means an unpredictable or unavoidable occurrence at unscheduled intervals 
requiring the specific employee reporting to duty to respond to the scene of the 
emergency or other location directly related to the emergency, as directed by a 
supervisor. Employees requested to report to duty as part of a minimum or 
increased staffing is not considered as an emergency within the meaning of this 
section. 
 
C.        Overtime worked shall be paid for at one and one-half (1½) times the employee's 
established rate of pay. Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) overtime will be 
calculated according to FLSA requirements, while MOU overtime will include 
incentives that have been negotiated to be incorporated into the calculation. 
Premiums included in the MOU overtime rate are:  
• Canine Detail 
• Crime Reduction Unit 
• Detective Differential 
• Downtown Unit Differential 
• Education – Police Post 3.5% 
• Education – Police Post 7% 
• Master Officer Level 1 
• Master Officer Level 2 
• Master Officer Level 3 
• PAL/Youth Services POA 
• Press Information Officer 
• School Resource Officer 
• Training Coordinator - POA 
• Motorcycle Patrol - POA 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8F4BE3E0-7358-4BE1-A6D9-A9F81DBB0CB6
452 of 662

--- page 453 ---
4.2 
Trades 
 
 
Trades of schedule are for the benefit of the employee.  All such trades must be repaid 
within the current annual shift selection period or the particular trade will be disregarded 
by the City and cannot be made up. 
 
4.3 
Overtime Payment/Compensatory Time 
 
 
An employee who accrues compensatory time for overtime worked under the provisions 
of Section 5.1 above may waive direct payment of overtime and in lieu thereof may 
accumulate time off at the one and one-half (1-1/2) rate to a maximum of one hundred and 
thirty-two (132) hours. 
 
A. 
Exceptions to Accrual of Compensatory Time Off 
Upon an Officer’s request and with the approval of the Police Chief or designee, 
overtime hours worked for the purposes of training and posted mandatory overtime 
for staffing purposes may be compensated in the form of compensatory time off 
subject to the accrual limitations above. 
 
B. 
Use of Compensatory Time Off 
The employee may utilize accrued compensatory time just as the employee would 
any other paid time off, but the department may not unreasonably prohibit the 
employee from utilizing the accumulated time. 
 
4.4 
Overtime Worked While on Prescheduled Personal Time OffCompensation 
 
Overtime worked shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the employee's 
established rate of pay, including educational incentive pay. 
 
 
An employee who is on pre-scheduled vacation, compensatory time off (CTO) and/or 
holiday time (and other discretionary leave, i.e., special leave), may elect to work an 
overtime shift that fulfills a departmental operational need. In such instances, the employee 
will not be paid for that pre-scheduled vacation, CTO and/or holiday time, as such leave 
shall not be deducted from the employee’s leave balance. The employee shall instead be 
compensated at their applicable overtime rate for the elected hours worked, regardless of 
whether these hours overlap or not with the employee’s regularly scheduled work hours. If 
the elected shift coincides with the employee’s regularly scheduled shift, overtime will 
only be paid with the approval of the supervisor. 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8F4BE3E0-7358-4BE1-A6D9-A9F81DBB0CB6
3/4/2022
453 of 662

--- page 454 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
Remove Retirement Heath Savings Letter of Understanding from MOU. 
 
This side letter is regarding the City’s contribution to RHS accounts for those employees aged 45 
or over with 15 years of City service. 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: 983D4EDA-F58F-4D71-A637-CCC1A62474CE
3/4/2022
454 of 662

--- page 455 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
Tentative Agreement  
Article 34 – Salaries 
34.3 
Deferred Compensation 
 
Effective the pay period of October 21, 2018 the City shall contribute three and one-half 
percent (3.5%) of base salary for each employee in the Police Officer classification and 
one percent (1%) for each employee in the CSO or Dispatcher classification series to an 
Internal Revenue Code Section 401 (a)(h) deferred compensation plan program in lieu of 
a Post Retirement Survivors’ Allowance program.  
 
The City’s contributions to the 401(h) component will cease upon commencement of the 
first pay period contributions begin to the PORAC Retiree Medical Trust. The 
City shall continue to contribute an amount equal to two and sixty-three hundredths 
percent (2.63%) of base salary for each employee in the Police Officer classification and 
three quarters of one percent (0.75%) for each employee in the CSO or Dispatcher 
classification series to an Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a) deferred compensation 
plan program 
 
 
The City shall contract with a third-party administrator to establish and administer a 
401(a)(h) Plan that shall include the 401(h) component for funding of retirement medical 
expenses.  Any administrative fees associated with administering the plan shall be paid by 
the City.  The City has the authority to select the administrator, which may change from 
time to time based on cost and service provided. 
 
 
34.4 
Retirement Health Savings AccountPORAC Retiree Medical Trust (RMT)  
 
All employees covered by this MOU in the Association shall participate in a retiree medical 
expense reimbursement plan administered by the PORAC Retiree Medical Trust (The 
Trust). The Trust shall be and remain separate and apart from the City’s health insurance 
funding program.  
 
A. 
City Contribution 
 
Effective the first full pay period of October 21, 2018upon Council Approval of the MOU, 
the City will contribute four percent $500 per(4%) of base salary per per employee per 
month for all classifications in the bargaining unit to a Retirement Health Savings 
Accountthe Trust. 
 
The employee assumes full responsibility and liability for tax consequences related to 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 802A1570-03C3-4436-A0E5-4D6E068DAC79
455 of 662

--- page 456 ---
contributions to and/or withdrawals from the PORAC Retiree Medical Trust. There shall 
be no employee election or options to take the amount in cash.  
 
The Association shall pay for the administrative costs arising from the enrollment of the 
Association in the PORAC Retirement Medical Trust.  
 
B. 
Reporting Rules 
The City will comply with reasonable rules set by the Trust Office with regard to reporting 
and transferring the required contributions set forth above, typically involving providing 
the Trust Office with the name, social security number, and amount paid for each 
employee. Any administrative fees associated with administering the plan shall be paid by 
the City. 
C. 
Indemnification 
The Association agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from any liabilities of any 
nature which may arise as a result of the operating of the PORAC RMT, except for the 
obligation of the City to make and report the non-elective transfer of employee 
contributions as described above. 
D. 
Exclusive Purpose of RMT 
The monies contributed to the Trust fund shall only be used for retiree health insurance 
premiums or health care expenses, as allowed by law.  There shall be no employee 
election/option available to take such amount in unrestricted cash. 
E. 
Separate Trust  
The purpose of this Trust shall be to provide for retiree health care expense reimbursement 
benefits.  The Trust shall be and remain separate and apart from any City provided health 
insurance funding program, unless changed by mutual written agreement of the parties.   
F. 
RMT Procedures 
The City hereby acknowledges receipt of the Trust Agreement governing the Trust and will 
comply with rules set by the Trust Office in regard to reporting and depositing the required 
contributions set forth above.  The City will cooperate with the Trust in allowing a payroll 
audit for the purpose of ascertaining that the proper contribution amount have been made.   
 
Separation Pays 
 
At the time of service or disability retirement from City merit employment: 
• All eligible sick leave, vacation leave, compensatory time, holiday leave, and 
annual leave shall be contributed pre-tax to the employee’s RHSAPORAC 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 802A1570-03C3-4436-A0E5-4D6E068DAC79
456 of 662

--- page 457 ---
Retirement Medical .Trust. 
 
At the time of non-retirement separation from City merit employment, no accrued leaves 
will be contributed to the employee’s RHSAPORAC Retirement Medical Trust. 
 
The Association may elect to change the above conversion of separation pay arrangements 
for each successive calendar year of this Agreement.  The Association must notify the 
City’s Human Resources Department in writing no later than November 30th of the 
change(s) to be made for the following calendar year.  In the event notification is not 
received by the deadline, the contributions and separation pay arrangements in effect at the 
time will continue for the following calendar year. 
 
Approval of above is also contingent upon agreement to City Proposal #12: 
 
City Proposal #12 – Retirement Health Savings Accounts 
Remove Retirement Heath Savings Letter of Understanding from MOU. 
This side letter is regarding the City’s contribution to RHS accounts for those employees aged 45 
or over with 15 years of City service. 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 802A1570-03C3-4436-A0E5-4D6E068DAC79
3/4/2022
457 of 662

--- page 458 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
Benefits Summary Sheet: Police Unit 20152022 
 
Social Security 
Paid equally by employee and City---7.65% for non-safety and 
1.45% (Medicare) for newly hired Police Officers. 
 
Survivor Benefits 
Paid by the City, CalPERS 1959 Survivor Benefit Level 4 ($950 
for one survivor, $1,900 for two survivors, and $2,280 for three or 
more survivors), provides monthly allowance to eligible survivors 
of safety members who died before retirement.   
 
Uniform Allowance 
$38.46 per pay period for Police Officers, $8.00 per pay period for 
Dispatchers and $30.77 per pay period for Community Service 
Officers.  
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: 779C9D35-ABE0-4587-A1B2-589A68EAF344
3/4/2022
458 of 662

--- page 459 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
Article 4.0 - Overtime  
 
4.4 
 Overtime Compensation 
 
4.4.1 Daylight Savings Time (New) 
 
Employees on duty when standard time goes into effect will work an additional hour on 
their shift at the FLSA overtime rate. 
 
Employees on duty when daylight savings time goes into effect will be allowed to 
continue working for an additional hour at the employee’s regular rate of pay or take one 
hour of leave time if they elect not to work the additional hour. If the employee elects to 
work the additional hour, that hour will not be credited towards any overtime pay.  
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: D1E12DE8-954C-4903-8517-D0A4358D3F4E
3/4/2022
459 of 662

--- page 460 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
 
Article 28.6 – Bereavement Leave 
 
In the event of a death in the immediate family, workers may take accrued sick leave of up to 
three (3) days, or up to five (5) days at the discretion of the employee’s Department Head, in the 
event of a death of an immediate member of their family.  Bereavement Leave shall be tracked 
separately from Protected Sick Leave.  At the employee’s request, and at the discretion of the 
employee’s Department Head, additional time off can be taken and charged to vacation, holiday 
or compensatory time balances. 
 
In the case of a death of a family member, employees may be granted bereavement leave of 
absence with pay for the workdays falling during the period from the time of death through the 
day of the funeral or one day after, not to exceed five (5) workdays.  
 
Bereavement leave will not be charged against accrued sick leave or vacation time. In this 
context only, immediate family shall be defined asFor the purpose of bereavement leave, a 
family member is defined as a : spouse, domestic partner registered in the State of California, 
child, foster child who resided with the employee at the time of their death, stepchild, mother, 
father, stepmother, stepfather, parent, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother, stepbrother, sister, 
stepsister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather, spouse’s grandmother, 
spouse’s grandfather, son-in-law, daughter-in-law or grandchildren, parent-in-law, brother, sister, 
grandparent or current grandparent-in-law.  
 
In addition, the Chief of Police, may grant bereavement leave to an employee upon the death or 
funeral of some other person, if in the opinion of the Chief there existed an extraordinarily close 
familial relationship between the employee and such other person.  
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: 020D013B-E974-4971-A716-D5C56B2F4903
3/4/2022
460 of 662

--- page 461 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement  
 
(New Section) 
 
Article 3 – Police Officer Assignments  
 
3.2  
Intra-departmental Specialty Assignments  
 
Members of the Police Officers Association shall have a minimum of two (2) years of 
classification seniority prior to being eligible for consideration for any intra-departmental 
specialty assignment. Members requesting a specialty assignment must have completed their 
probationary period in the classification and one (1) year of classification seniority.  The 
department can deviate from these provisions if no candidate meets the seniority requirements.  
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: 3AD4FD8B-71A9-4CA0-A575-74761B03D260
3/4/2022
461 of 662

--- page 462 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement  
 
(New Section) 
 
Article 22 – Wellness Program 
 
The City and Police Officers Association recognize the value of emphasizing wellness.  The Police 
Department will establish and maintain a Wellness Program Policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: 5DC12FAB-2B89-4857-99E1-D9388A4F8AB7
3/4/2022
462 of 662

--- page 463 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
(New Section) 
 
Article 34 – Take Home Vehicle Program 
 
The City shall assign available unmarked “take home” vehicles to members holding the position 
of Public Information Officer and Detective on standby duty.  
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: 65BA8F4E-87C3-4912-9EA2-AC900ECAEE24
3/4/2022
463 of 662

--- page 464 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
(New Section) 
 
Article 3 – Police Officer Assignments 
 
3.1  
Annual Sign-Ups 
 
Employees shall participate in annual shift sign-ups within their assignments as defined in the 
Police Department Annual Sign-up Policy. 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: D86382EE-C800-483E-AD50-11365EDFC47F
3/4/2022
464 of 662

--- page 465 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
(New Section) 
 
Article 23 – Rotation In Specialty Assignments 
 
ROTATION IN SPECIALTY ASSIGNMENTS 
a. 
All officers and community service officers in specialty assignments shall be assigned a 
rotation date upon assignment. The normal rotation shall be determined based upon, but 
not limited to, the following considerations: 
1. 
The amount of training needed to perform the duties. 
2. 
The need for organizational consistency of operations. 
3. 
The need to build relationships within the job function. 
The normal rotation may be extended in one (1) year increments to a maximum of five 
(5) years at the discretion of the Captain. 
 
b. 
Additional extensions beyond the five-year limit may be granted at the discretion of the 
Chief of Police or designee. 
 
c. 
All specialty assignments as described above shall have an annual review for retention. 
 
d. 
This section shall not apply to those employees in a ‘Senior’ or other specialty 
assignment not intended to be rotational in nature. 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: F51E70A5-E397-4091-B8D4-C8BE1B64D896
3/4/2022
465 of 662

--- page 466 ---
San Mateo Police Officers Association and City of San Mateo  
2021 Negotiations 
 
Tentative Agreement 
 
 
 
Article 24.5 – Training Differential 
 
Police Officers assigned as field training officers shall receive eight percent (8%) biweekly in 
addition to their regular pay for such duty and associated overtime. 
 
Community Service Officers - in non-specialty assignments who are assigned training of field 
CSO’s - shall receive eight percent (8%) biweekly in addition to their regular pay for such duty 
and associated overtime. 
 
When the manager/sergeant supervisor responsible for the communications center assigns a non-
Senior Dispatcher to serve as a member of the Training Team, the employee will receive an 58% 
differential while training entry-level probationary Dispatchers relative to the technical dispatch 
duties. Dispatchers who are not part of the Training Team are not eligible to receive the differential. 
 
 
 
 
Date:  ___________________________ 
 
 
 
 
For the POA:  
 
 
                                For the City: 
 
 
 
 
____________________________  
                    _______________________________ 
    
DocuSign Envelope ID: BB42810C-0011-4689-9730-1464E678B413
3/4/2022
466 of 662

--- page 467 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  23
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5726
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Interactive Pandemic Healing Art Wall Project – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an Agreement with The Integrated Spirit, LLC for the temporary exhibition of a work of art for the "Interactive 
Community Healing Wall"; in an amount not to exceed $2,200 for materials and shared insurance costs from the Art in 
Public Places Fund, and authorize the Community Development Director to execute the Agreement.
BACKGROUND:
In November 2020, San Mateo resident Amie Tyler (The Integrated Spirit, LLC) contacted the City with a proposal for a 
temporary “pop up” community art project, similar to the popular chalkboard projects originally created by artist Candy 
Chang. Chang’s pieces are in publicly accessible locations and invite people to reflect on life and death and complete the 
statement: “Before I die...” The original artist encourages modifying the prompt if desired. Ms. Tyler’s concept is to focus 
on the community’s response to the pandemic, prompting the statement of: “During the Pandemic… ‘I lost…’, ‘I missed…’, 
and ‘I’m grateful for…’”. She conveys that with this project, the intent is to bring communities together through art and 
help with healing in this time of trauma. San Mateo’s downtown is the heart of the City, a logical location to share our 
feelings from the heart. 
As described and illustrated in her proposal (Attachment 2), the stand-alone wooden structure will be a large shoebox-like 
structure 8’ long by 4’ wide, and 8’ tall with chalkboard paint and stenciled prompts all around, chalk holders provided, 
and secured with sandbags within the structure. This type of project is most viable in an easily accessible outdoor public 
space with pedestrian activity and mild weather. With part of B Street permanently closed for pedestrian use, the 
northeast corner of B Street and 3rd Avenue is an ideal location at a good time of year with warm weather and busy 
pedestrian traffic. Ms. Tyler proposes to sponsor and manage the project, including its construction, installation, 
maintenance, and decommissioning. The length of installation is expected to be no longer than one month, estimated to 
start approximately two to three weeks after approval to allow for construction and installation. 
Staff contacted Public Works and Economic Development staff regarding the preferred location of the corner of B Street 
and 3rd Avenue, on the east side of B Street across from Peet’s Coffee and in front of Meet Fresh. The location is not 
expected to create any conflicts and the installation will meet the requirement to keep the access lane open for 
emergency response. Ms. Tyler requested some financial assistance not exceed $1,600 to purchase the wood and 
hardware for the construction of the structure. The Art in Public Places Program requires the Civic Arts Committee (CAC) to 
review and make a recommendation to City Council for approval of projects proposing an expenditure of Art in Public 
Places Funds. The Civic Arts committee (CAC) recommended approval to the Council at its meeting on July 12, 2021. The 
Community Development Department will provide assistance for a portion of the cost of the required insurance not to 
exceed $600.
467 of 662

--- page 468 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Because the installation will be located on a City street, First Amendment considerations come into play.  The intent of the 
parties is to create a temporary and limited public forum for purposes of pandemic-related discourse and not a designated 
public forum for any type of expression.  In other words, the hand-written responses will be limited to answering 
pandemic-related questions.  The City will continue to exercise control over the public right of way, which is not itself 
being opened up for expressive activity.  Also, the City may remove the installation at any time.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Art in Public Places Fund is funded by development in-lieu fees that are reserved for public art activities. The current 
balance of the Fund is approximately $600,000. The $600 for the required insurance will be absorbed in the Community 
Development Department operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This temporary public art activity is categorically exempt from CEQA, because it is a minor, temporary alteration to a public 
street. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Heather Stewart, Senior Management Analyst
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7164
468 of 662

--- page 469 ---
131015 dm 00710286 
 AGREEMENT FOR THE TEMPORARY EXHIBITION OF A WORK OF ART 
“INTERACTIVE COMMUNITY HEALING WALL” 
TO BE LOCATED ON NORTHEAST CORNER OF B ST AND 3RD AVE 
 
 
This Agreement For The Temporary Exhibition Of A Work of Art (the “Agreement”) is made and 
entered into as of __________, (the “Effective Date”) by and between the CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
a California chartered municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(the “City”), and The Integrated Spirit, LLC (the “Artist”) (individually, a “Party”, and, 
collectively, the “Parties”) in reference to the following facts, circumstances, terms and 
conditions: 
 
RECITALS 
 
WHEREAS, the provision of art in public places, whether in the form of freestanding pieces 
such as sculptures or memorials, architectural embellishments, or other forms incorporated into 
areas accessible to the public, is an essential component of any great city and makes that city 
more interesting and vibrant for its residents and visitors; and 
 
WHEREAS, based on research that interactive community art can provide a healing 
ground for communities, and on the recommendation of the Artist, the City desires to install a 
temporary chalkboard art project entitled Interactive Community Healing Wall (the 
“Installation”), as shown on Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated by reference, and as 
further described in Section 1; and 
 
WHEREAS, the artwork is designed to allow members of the public to write responses to 
pandemic-related questions painted on the Installation, which the Parties consider to be a 
temporary and limited public forum and not a designated public forum; and  
 
WHEREAS, City shall continue to exercise control over the public right of way and is not 
opening the public right of way itself for artistic expression; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City has the absolute right to remove the Installation at any time, for any 
reason or no reason; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Artist has affirmed her willingness and ability to manage the Installation 
by painting pandemic-related questions thereon, subject to the prior written approval of the City; 
and 
 
WHEREAS, the Artist is qualified and able to perform the services, and is willing to accept 
the terms of this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Art in Public Places program (Municipal Code Chapter 23.60) requires the 
Civic Arts Committee to recommended project approvals and expenditures of the Art in Public 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
469 of 662

--- page 470 ---
2 
 
Places Fund to the City Council; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Civic Arts Committee has reviewed and recommends the Installation.  
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of these recitals and the mutual covenants contained 
herein, the Parties agree as follows: 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
470 of 662

--- page 471 ---
3 
 
 
1. 
PURPOSE 
 
1.1 
In accordance with Chapter 23.60 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, the City 
agrees to authorize and install, for a temporary period of time, the Installation on the closed 
segment of B Street nearest the northeast corner of intersection of B Street and 3rd Avenue (the 
“Site”) for the purpose of creating a limited public forum for the writing of responses to questions 
related to the pandemic.   The Site is shown on Exhibit A.   
 
1.2 
The Installation will be 8 ft. tall by 8 ft. long by 4 ft. wide, secured by internal struts 
and sandbags at the base for stability. The external wooden façade will incorporate a surface 
area which shall be used as described in this section, and which invites the community to add 
their comments about their experience with the pandemic.  
 
1.3 
The City further agrees to appoint the Artist to conduct and manage the 
construction of the Installation and its day-to-day management. 
 
2. 
EXHIBITION SITE 
 
2.1 
The Artist will construct the Installation and temporarily install it at the closed 
segment of B Street nearest the northeast corner of intersection of B Street and 3rd Avenue, San 
Mateo (as set forth in Exhibit A), or as otherwise communicated to the Artist, in writing.  
 
2.2 
The City, in its sole discretion, may change the Site or construct more Installations 
for similar purposes, provided however, that the City shall reasonably credit the Artist for 
conceptualizing and ideating this project.  
 
3. 
NOT TO EXCEED MATERIALS REIMBURSEMENT   
 
3.1 
The services performed by the Artist hereunder shall be on a voluntary basis. 
 
3.2 
The costs associated with the construction of the Installation and necessary 
materials shall be borne by the City and shall not exceed $2,200 Dollars. Payment of such costs 
will be made in accordance with the payment schedule, as set forth in Exhibit B to this 
Agreement.  
 
4. 
TERM 
 
The temporary Installation shall be installed for a temporary period of time, not exceeding thirty 
(30) days.  The commencement date of this thirty-day period shall be determined by the City.    
 
5. 
INSTALLATION AND REMOVAL 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
471 of 662

--- page 472 ---
4 
 
5.1 
The Artist undertakes to conduct and manage the transportation and delivery of 
the Installation to and from the Site and also undertakes to conduct and manage the Installation 
and the subsequent removal of the Installation. In moving the Installation, the Artist will 
endeavor to ensure that no damage to the street, private property, or other surroundings will 
occur.  If any damage occurs due to the Artist’s negligent discharge of services, the Artist will be 
responsible for paying the costs of repair incurred by the City. 
 
5.2 
The purpose of the Installation is to invite members of the public to add their 
comments about their experience with the pandemic, specifically in relation to and limited by 
the prompts or questions provided on the Installation.  
 
5.3 
Information regarding the art, restrictions on use of the Installation and 
disclaimers, if any, shall be posted and maintained by the Artist in a clear and conspicuous 
manner. 
 
5.4 
Such prompts or questions will be painted on the Installation by the Artist and may 
be updated on a recurring basis by erasing the older questions and responses. In furtherance to 
the purpose of this artwork, the Artist will have the right, but not the obligation to erase non-
responsive answers, art and responses added on the Installation.  Unprotected speech, such as 
“fighting words,” obscenity, and defamation, can be removed immediately.  The Artist may 
assemble the prompts with a crew, including the Artist, and any additional volunteers, who may 
be both adults and minors.   
 
5.5 
The City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to supervise and/or assist in 
the installation and subsequent removal of the Installation. 
 
6. 
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS 
 
6.1 
The Artist, at her sole cost and expense, will maintain and repair the Installation 
during the term of this Agreement. The Artist will not seek any reimbursement or other payment 
from the City for incurring maintenance and/or repair costs and expenses related to the 
Installation.   
 
6.2 
The City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to maintain the Site and 
Installation and provide security, if necessary. 
 
6.3 
In the event the Installation or the art on it is damaged or defaced, or otherwise 
experiences extraordinary wear and tear, whether due to vandalism, force majeure, exposure to 
the elements, or otherwise, the City shall have the right, but not the obligation, to  make, or cause 
to be made, necessary maintenance and/or repairs to, including the replacement of parts of, the 
Installation. If the City determines that the damage or defacement of the Installation presents an 
imminent danger to the public health, safety and welfare, then the City shall take action to 
immediately address the threat.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
472 of 662

--- page 473 ---
5 
 
 
7. 
LIMITED GRANT OF LICENSE 
 
7.1 
The Installation and/or any art created on it (temporary or otherwise) shall remain 
the sole and exclusive property of the City. The City shall have the right, but not the obligation to 
erase all art (temporary or otherwise) on expiry of the term of this Agreement.  
 
7.2 
The City at its sole discretion may dispose of the Installation, including disposal by 
auction sale, donation or destruction in accordance with California Civil Code sections 980 – 989 
inclusive. 
 
7.3 
The City grants to the Artist a non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable license to do 
the following with respect to the Installation, in whatever media, including, without limitation, 
digital and electronic media, that now or hereafter are known: (B) display images of the 
Installation over the Internet; (C) use the images for personal use-related purposes, including, 
without limitation, education-, information-, and publicity-related materials. In all cases in which 
imagery of the artwork is used, the Artist agrees to properly credit the City.  
 
7.4 
With respect to the art created on the Installation or the Installation itself, the 
Artist waives any and all claims, arising at any time against the City, its elected and appointed 
officials, officers, employees, agents and representatives, that may be grounded in any federal 
law, including, without limitation, the Visual Artists Rights Act (17 U.S.C. §106A et seq.), California 
law, including, without limitation, the California Art Preservation Act (Cal. Civil Code §987 et seq.), 
or local law that may relate to the moral rights of the Artist or protection of the integrity of the 
Art Work. 
 
8. 
ABSOLUTE RIGHT OF REMOVAL BY CITY 
 
8.1 
While the intent of the City is to enable community healing through art, the Parties 
agree that the Installation is being authorized and created by the City for a limited duration, at 
the City’s sole discretion.  
 
8.2 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the City retains the right to relocate, 
permanently remove or destroy the Installation, including the art on it, for any reason, or for no 
reason, in the sole discretion of the City, including, but not limited to, hazards to public health, 
safety or welfare, unsightly or deteriorated conditions of the artwork, or the need to access, 
repair and maintain public facilities.  
 
9. 
INSURANCE 
 
The Artist, at her sole cost and expense, shall obtain and maintain, in full force and effect during 
the term of this Agreement, the insurance coverage(s) as set forth in Exhibit C.   
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
473 of 662

--- page 474 ---
6 
 
 
10. 
HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNITY PROVISION 
 
10.1 
The Artist will defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City and its officers, 
agents, employees and volunteers from and against all claims, damages, losses and expenses 
including attorney fees, arising out of the services performed by the Artist or related to the 
Installation, caused in whole or in part by the willful misconduct or any negligent act or omission 
of the Artist or  its directors, officers, employees, representatives, agents and volunteers for 
whose acts the Artist may be liable or responsible, except where caused by the active negligence, 
sole negligence, or willful misconduct of the City. 
 
10.2 
The Parties expressly agree that any reasonable payment, attorney's fee, cost or 
expense the City incurs or makes to or on behalf of an injured employee under the City's self-
administered workers' compensation is included as a loss, expense or cost for the purposes of 
this section, and that this section will survive the expiration or early termination of the 
Agreement. 
 
11. 
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 
 
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ONE PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER 
PARTY FOR ANY SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING 
LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY ACTIVITIES 
PERFORMED IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER A CLAIM 
MADE BY THAT PARTY IS BASED ON CONTRACT OR TORT. 
 
12. 
RESERVATION OF RIGHTS 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the City is unable or unwilling to make, 
or to continue to make, the Installation available, due to budgetary constraints, action of the City 
Council, insufficient and other unavailable staffing, force majeure or for any other reason, or no 
reason at all, then the Artist or its agents, representatives, heir, successors and assigns will not 
have any right to file an action or make a claim against the City as a result of such action or 
inaction. 
 
13. 
NOTICE 
 
Unless otherwise provided herein, all notices required hereunder shall be given by electronic mail 
or by delivered by the United States Postal Service, registered or certified mail, or other form of 
mail which offers proof of mailing, postage prepaid and addressed to the Party at the addresses 
below: 
If to City: 
 
 
City Manager 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
474 of 662

--- page 475 ---
7 
 
 
Copy to: 
 
 
Director, Community Development 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
 
 
ATTN.: Heather Stewart 
 
 
 
 
hstewart@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
 
(650) 522-7164 
 
If to Artist: 
 
 
The Integrated Spirit, LLC 
Amie Tyler 
20 Park Rd., Ste. D 
Burlingame, CA 94002 
650-483-7289 
amietyler@gmail.com 
 
14. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
14.1 
Neither the execution of this Agreement nor anything in it or any action taken pursuant 
to it, shall be construed as the City opening up any part of the street or sidewalk to public 
expression or failing to exercise control over the right of way.   
 
14.2 
The City shall have the right but not the obligation, to use the Artist’s name, likeness, and 
biographical information, along with the title Interactive Community Healing Wall in connection 
with the publicity of the present project. 
 
14.3 
Nothing herein, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any third person, 
any legal or equitable right, or remedy, nor may any provision hereof be enforced by any third 
party.  
 
14.4 
The formation, interpretation and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by 
and interpreted in accordance with California law.  Any action to enforce or interpret this 
Agreement shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in County of San Mateo, 
California.   
 
14.5 
Should any legal action be initiated by a Party for breach of this Agreement, or to enforce 
any provision of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to receive reasonable 
attorney’s fees, court costs, and other such costs as may be awarded by the court.   
 
14.6 
This Agreement may be executed in one of more counterparts, which shall together 
constitute one and the same Agreement.  
 
14.7 
This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding and agreement of the Parties 
relating to the Installation and the rights and obligations of the Parties arising under this 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
475 of 662

--- page 476 ---
8 
 
Agreement. The Exhibits to this Agreement are incorporated by reference and made a part of 
this Agreement.  This Agreement supersedes any prior written or oral communication between 
the Parties relating to the Installation.   
 
14.8 
This Agreement may be amended, in writing, and signed by the Parties. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have duly signed this Agreement as of the Effective 
Date. 
 
ARTIST: 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
_______________________________ 
_____________________________________ 
Amie Tyler 
Date 
Christina Horrisberger 
Date 
 
Community Development Director 
 
APPROVAL AS TO FORM: 
 
 
_______________________________ 
Gabrielle Whelan 
 
      Date 
Deputy City Attorney 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
3/7/2022
476 of 662

--- page 477 ---
9 
 
EXHIBIT A 
Interactive Community Healing Wall: Description of Project  
 
 
 
SEE NEXT PAGES 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
477 of 662

--- page 478 ---
131015 dm 00710286 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
478 of 662

--- page 479 ---
11 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
479 of 662

--- page 480 ---
12 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
480 of 662

--- page 481 ---
13 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
481 of 662

--- page 482 ---
14 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
482 of 662

--- page 483 ---
15 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
483 of 662

--- page 484 ---
16 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
484 of 662

--- page 485 ---
17 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
485 of 662

--- page 486 ---
18 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
486 of 662

--- page 487 ---
19 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
487 of 662

--- page 488 ---
20 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
488 of 662

--- page 489 ---
21 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
489 of 662

--- page 490 ---
131015 dm 00710286 
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT SCHEDULE  
 
 
Payment Schedule:  
 
1. The Artist shall submit documentation with the City to establish vendor status upon 
execution of this Agreement. 
2. The Artist shall submit receipts and proofs of payment for wood and other materials 
used for construction, no later than thirty (30) days beyond the Installation’s removal.  
3. After review and approval, reimbursement will be processed by the City not later than 
thirty (30) days after receipt of payment documentation noted in #2. 
4. As per the proposal submitted by the Artist, the cost of the materials is given below: 
 
 
 
5. The Community Development Department will provide assistance in the purchase of 
required insurance not to exceed $600. Reimbursement not will be processed by the 
City not later than thirty (30) days after receipt of payment documentation. 
 
 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
490 of 662

--- page 491 ---
23 
 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL): Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, 
personal & advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately 
to this project/location or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required 
occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability: ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
Contractor has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with 
limit no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, 
and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for 
bodily injury or disease. 
 
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as 
insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or 
borrowed by or on behalf of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability 
arising out of work or operations performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including 
materials, parts or equipment furnished in connection with such work or operations. General 
liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance 
(at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later 
revisions used). 
 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, or agents shall be excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with 
it. 
 
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
491 of 662

--- page 492 ---
24 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except 
after thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
Contractor may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such 
insurance. Contractor agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this 
waiver of subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has 
received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from the insurer. 
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The 
City may require the Contractor to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or 
provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and 
defense expenses within the retention. 
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, 
unless otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or 
copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause. All 
certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work 
commences. However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning 
shall not waive the Contractor’s obligation to provide them. The City reserves the right to 
require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements 
required by these specifications, at any time. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 31F81B98-C06C-4619-90FD-6DF12ED5161B
492 of 662

--- page 493 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  24
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5836
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
General Plan, Housing Element, and Housing Successor Agency – 2021 Annual Progress Reports 
RECOMMENDATION:
Accept the Annual Progress Reports for General Plan, Housing Element, and Housing Successor Agency, and direct the 
Community Development Director to file the reports with the State. 
BACKGROUND:
Government Code Sections 65400 and 65700 require local planning agencies to submit an Annual Progress Report (APR) 
on the status of their General Plan and Housing Element implementation to the local legislative body. The APR is then 
required to be submitted to California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) and Office of Planning 
and Research (OPR) by April 1st of each year. Therefore, the City’s Community Development Department (CDD) is seeking 
acceptance of the General Plan and Housing Element Annual Progress Reports (Attachments 1 and 2) by City Council, prior 
to submittal to OPR and HCD. 
The City’s annual Housing Successor Report, as required pursuant to California Health and Safety Code Section 34176.1(f), 
is included as Attachment 3. This report provides details of the housing funds, assets, and activities of the City of San 
Mateo, which is acting as the Housing Successor Agency of the former Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo.
General Plan Annual Progress Report Summary
The General Plan is a State-mandated document that sets the framework for the City’s physical, social, and economic
development into the future. In 2018, California Government Code Section 65700(b) was amended to make the General 
Plan APR requirement applicable to charter cities. In prior years, charter cities were only required to submit an APR that 
documented progress made toward implementing their certified Housing Element. The City submitted its first General Plan 
APR in 2021. 
The City’s General Plan APR highlights the accomplishments in 2021 in implementing land use related goals, policies, and 
actions. Through the accomplishments highlighted in the APR, the City continues to work to achieve a healthy economic, 
social, and physical environment to serve the San Mateo community. The APR includes the following key information:

Planning activities initiated or completed by the City in 2021;

Highlights of major planning applications approved in 2021;

Building permit and construction status of major development projects; and

Implementation summary of General Plan goals, policies and actions pertaining to land use.
Housing Element Annual Progress Report Summary
While the Housing Element is a part of the General Plan, the Housing Element APR is subject to additional and specific
requirements not applicable to other elements of the General Plan. The Housing Element APR has been prepared pursuant 
493 of 662

--- page 494 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
to California Government Code Section 65400 and includes a detailed accounting of all housing projects submitted, 
reviewed, entitled, and constructed in the City in 2021. The APR also provides an update on the implementation on each of 
the Housing Element’s policies and programs to achieve the City’s housing vision. 
This is the seventh APR on the City’s Housing Element for the 2015-2023 housing cycle, and it includes the following 
information:

Progress report on implementation of the Housing Element programs (Attachment 2 - Table B):

Progress in meeting our share of regional housing needs assessment (RHNA) by income level;

Information on the types of housing units that were issued building permits, as well as those that were completed; 
and

Information on number of planning applications submitted, as well as those that were approved.
The APR included in Attachment 2 is the required State report form, which consists of numerous columns, making parts of 
it difficult to read; especially Table A-2. Table 1 below summarizes the key data regarding housing units and their 
affordability levels included in planning applications submitted and approved in 2021; as well as building permits issued 
and completed (certificate of occupancy). Per HCD definition, applications submitted are applications that have been 
determined complete by the jurisdiction.
Table 1 - 2021 Housing Units Summary Table
Very Low
Low
Moderate
Above 
Moderate
Total
Report Table
Planning Applications
Units Submitted
4
8
2
109
123
Table A
Units Disapproved
0
0
0
0
0
Table A
Total Units Approved 
During 2021
180
145
0
1,155
1,480
Table A
Building Permits
Permit Issued
0
41
37
239
317
Table A-2
Certificate of Occupancy
6
26
26
204
262
Table A-2
Tables A and A-2 in the attached APR also indicate what type of housing units are approved and built. In addition to regular 
housing units, the production of accessory dwelling units (ADUs) is also included in the housing numbers outlined in Table 
1.  In 2021, 68 ADUs were issued building permits and 24 ADUs were completed. For comparison, in 2020, 52 ADU permits 
were issued and 17 were completed.
For past APRs, all ADUs were counted as Above Moderate (market rate) units. However, based on research and survey 
work completed by the Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG), a technical report was published last fall that found 
ADUs often meet lower income affordability requirements based on the incomes of the occupants and/or their rental 
rates. Based on these findings, local jurisdictions are justified in using certain percentages to meet their affordable housing 
allocations.1 The recommended affordability breakdown that a Bay Area jurisdiction can use for ADUs, which is as noted as 
being conservative, is 30% Very Low, 30% Low, 30% Moderate and 10% Above Moderate. The report also notes that if a 
jurisdiction has fair housing concerns, they may want to use more conservative assumptions and go with 5% Very Low, 
30% Low, 50% Moderate and 15% Above Moderate. This technical report was prepared in consultation with HCD, and 21 
Elements, a planning and housing collaborative forum for San Mateo County jurisdictions, has confirmed that past APRs 
can be amended to get BMR credit for ADUs constructed in past years of this current housing cycle.
Thus, staff will be amending and resubmitting the City’s prior Housing Element APRs to HCD with an updated breakdown 
of ADUs by income level. To ensure that the affordability breakdown for ADUs is most reflective of the market conditions 
in San Mateo, staff is using an affordability breakdown for ADUs of 35% at Low Income, 50% at Moderate income, and 15% 
1 Association of Bay Area Governments, “Affordability of Accessory Dwelling Units”, Table 4 (Peninsula Market Rents/ Not Rented to 
Friends and Family), September 2021.  
494 of 662

--- page 495 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
at Above Moderate income. Table 2 below summarizes the updated ADU production by income level for the last seven 
years of the current housing cycle that will be submitted to HCD. As a result of this update, the City will be getting credit 
for the production of an additional 157 affordable units over the past seven years.
Table 2 – ADU Affordability Breakdown by Year
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Total
Total ADU Building 
Permits Issued
4
3
7
8
45
52
68
187
Low Income ADUs
1
1
2
3
15
18
24
64
Moderate Income ADUs
2
2
4
4
23
26
34
95
Above Moderate 
Income ADUs
1
0
1
1
7
8
10
28
Table B in the attached APR shows the progress of housing unit production by affordability level as defined by issuance of 
building permits for the first seven years of the current housing cycle (2015-2023). These numbers illustrate that the City 
has achieved nearly 70% of its allocation for total new housing units. With the updated ADU affordability breakdown, the 
City has achieved 19% of its affordable (BMR) housing allocation. Table 3 below summarizes the City’s RHNA allocation and 
housing production through the end of 2021. 
Table 3 – RHNA and Housing Construction by Year
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
Total 
Units
Total 
RHNA
Total Housing Units 
591
189
465
90
386
96
317
2,134
3,100
Very Low Income Units
0
12
37
7
67
3
0
126
859
Low Income Units
23
3
0
0
25
1
41
93
469
Moderate Income Units
88
2
4
0
0
0
37
131
530
Above Moderate-
Income Units
480
172
424
83
294
92
239
1,784
1,242
* These totals reflect the updated ADU affordability breakdown.
Table G in the attached APR includes information on the Kiku Crossing Project, which includes 225 affordable family rental 
units downtown, as a site on the housing inventory that has been transferred to MidPen Housing for development of 
affordable units. Table H includes information on three other City-owned surplus sites, two of which are moving forward 
with developer negotiations for affordable housing projects. The City did not have anything to report in Tables C, E, and F.
Housing Successor Report Summary
The purpose of the Housing Successor Report is to provide the governing body of the Housing Successor an annual report 
on the housing assets and activities of the City of San Mateo acting as the Housing Successor of the former Redevelopment 
Agency of the City of San Mateo under Part 1.85, Division 24 of the California Health and Safety Code, in particular sections
34176 and 34176.1 (the Dissolution Law) for the fiscal year July 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021.
During this reporting period the City received $545,000 in new revenues contributing to a fund balance of $3,876,000.  A 
portion of this is reserved for subsidy of the Kiku Crossing Project, which will be reported as drawn in next year’s report.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no impact on the General Fund for this report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Annual Progress Report on the General Plan and Housing Element is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an 
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
495 of 662

--- page 496 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – General Plan Annual Progress Report 2021
Att 2 – Housing Element Annual Progress Report 2021
Att 3 – Annual Housing Successor Report 2020-2021
STAFF CONTACT
Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7203
496 of 662

--- page 497 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
GENERAL PLAN PROGRESS REPORT 2021 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PREPARED BY: 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
330 W. 20TH AVENUE 
SAN MATEO CA 94403 
(650) 522-7212 
planning@cityofsanmateo.org 
 
497 of 662

--- page 498 ---
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report 2021                                                         
 P a g e  | 2 
1. INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE OF THIS DOCUMENT 
State of California Government Code Sections 65400 and 65700 requires local planning agencies to 
provide an annual update to their legislative body, the Governor's Office of Planning and Research 
(OPR), and the State Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) on the status of the 
General Plan, Housing Element and progress in its implementation. The APR is required even when a 
city may be undertaking a General Plan comprehensive update. State law requires that the General Plan 
Annual Progress Report (APR) be completed and submitted to the state each year for the previous year.  
 
This General Plan Progress Report looks at the city’s progress in implementing land use related goals, 
policies and actions during the period beginning January 1, 2021 and ending on December 31, 2021. 
 
2. GENERAL PLAN BACKGROUND AND CONTENT 
California law requires that every city and county adopt a long-term General Plan that addresses seven 
specific topics or “elements,” organized in any format or structure preferred by the community. The 
General Plan may also address other topics the community feels are relevant. Regardless of the format 
or issues addressed, the Plan must be internally consistent.  
 
San Mateo’s General Plan 2030 was adopted on October 18, 2010. Community participation played an 
important role in preparing the city’s General Plan. Community feedback helped shape the General 
Plan’s Vision and in developing policies and implementation actions. Community participation included 
residents, businesses, as well as, civic and professional organizations were engaged during the General 
Plan preparation stage. Additionally, other agencies and utilities were consulted including the Native 
American tribes, county agency, school districts, water districts, and regional transportation agencies. 
At the time of its adoption, San Mateo’s General Plan 2030 complied with applicable OPR General Plan 
Guidelines.  
 
The General Plan 2030 is organized into seven elements that meet the State requirements, as shown in 
Table 1 - General Plan Contents. 
 
Table 1 - General Plan Contents 
Required Plan 
Topics1 
San Mateo General Plan 
2030 Elements 
Issues Covered 
Land Use 
Land Use 
Community character, land use, development, economic 
development, planning activities, public facilities, regional 
coordination, sustainability 
 
Urban Design 
Focal points, corridors, gateways, design 
Housing 
Housing 
Housing, sustainability 
Circulation 
Circulation 
Transportation, mobility, regional coordination 
Conservation, 
Open Space 
Conservation, Open Space, 
Parks and Recreation 
Biological resources, open space, cultural resources, parks 
and recreation, sustainability 
Noise 
Noise 
Noise 
Safety 
Safety  
Natural and man-made hazards (flooding, geologic, 
seismic, hazardous waste, wild fires, waste water, etc.), 
mitigation planning  
 
 
 
                                                          
1 Senate Bill 1000 (2016) – For communities with disadvantaged communities (as defined in California Government 
Code 65302), SB 1000 requires the local jurisdiction to provide an Environmental Justice element, or equivalent, in its 
General Plan that identifies the location of the disadvantaged communities and their environmental burdens, health 
risks and needs.    
498 of 662

--- page 499 ---
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report 2021                                                         
 P a g e  | 3 
City’s Responsibility 
The effectiveness of the General Plan ultimately depends on how it is implemented and maintained 
over time. State law requires that most actions of local governments affecting the physical environment 
be consistent with the General Plan. General Plan implementation is the responsibility of numerous 
departments including: City Attorney, City Manager’s Office (Economic Development), Community 
Development Department, Finance Department, Information Technology Department, Information 
Technology Department, Parks and Recreation Department, Police Department and Public Works 
Department to name a few. 
 
Additionally, several other governmental agencies and utilities provide services within the city’s 
boundary. While these agencies are neither part of the city’s operational structure nor directly 
responsible for implementation of the General Plan, the city does coordinate its activities with these 
other agencies and relies upon their assistance for full implementation of the General Plan. These 
agencies include but are not limited to: San Mateo Consolidated Fire District, water districts (California 
Water Company, Estero Water District), school districts (San Mateo Foster City Unified School District, 
San Mateo High School District, California State College System), and County of San Mateo. 
 
3. DATE OF PRESENTATION/ACCEPTANCE BY THE LOCAL LEGISLATIVE BODY. 
The General Plan Progress Report 2021 is scheduled for City Council review on March 21, 2022. 
 
4. IMPLEMENTATION. 
The Progress Report is focused on land use actions in implementing the General Plan. As some of the 
General Plan goals, policies and action items have been implemented through the adoption of 
ordinances or resolutions; or incorporated into the city’s regular governmental activities in previous 
years, they are not individually listed in the Progress Report; but are rather noted in Exhibit A as 
“ongoing” along with a brief description. For example, this includes “ongoing” work in the city’s 
Development Review process as development proposals are reviewed for consistency with the city’s 
policies. Exhibit A is not a comprehensive list of all policies and action items in the General Plan, rather 
it summarizes the implementation status of select land use related goals, policies and actions. The 
purpose of providing Exhibit A is to streamline the review and highlight the city’s progress efficiently.  
 
5. HOUSING ELEMENT ANNUAL PROGRESS REPORT REQUIREMENTS.  
State law requires local agencies to complete an annual review of the implementation of the programs 
in the Housing Element toward meeting city’s Regional Housing Needs Assessment (RHNA). The city’s 
Housing Successor Agency and Housing Element Annual Progress Report are provided as separate 
attachments to the March 21, 2022 agenda report.  
 
6. GENERAL PLAN COMPLIES WITH OPR’S GENERAL PLAN GUIDELINES. 
At the time of its adoption, San Mateo’s General Plan 2030 complied with applicable OPR General Plan 
Guidelines. Subsequent amendments to the General Plan, including the two adopted by the city in 
2020, also complied with applicable OPR General Plan Guidelines. In 2021, the city did not review or 
approve any amendments to the General Plan.   
 
7. DATE OF THE LAST UPDATE TO THE GENERAL PLAN. 
The City Council adopted General Plan 2030 on October 18, 2010. 
 
8. PRIORITIES FOR LAND USE DECISION MAKING ESTABLISHED BY THE LOCAL LEGISLATIVE BODY. 
The following highlights major legislative actions by the City Council that support the goals of the 
General Plan:   
 
A. Affordable Housing Projects Near Transit - With the passage of Assembly Bill 1763, which allows for 
taller and denser affordable housing developments, jurisdictions throughout the state have an 
499 of 662

--- page 500 ---
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report 2021                                                         
 P a g e  | 4 
additional tool to facilitate the production of affordable housing. Building upon AB 1863, the San 
Mateo City Council adopted San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.15.080 Affordable Housing 
Projects Near Transit on July 20, 2020. This ordinance was subsequently utilized to facilitate the 
original entitlement of a 225-unit affordable housing development in Downtown San Mateo (aka 
Kiku Crossing) on August 17, 2020; and for the approval of the project’s major redesign on May 17, 
2021.  
 
B. Density Bonus/Below Market Rate Program – Initially enacted in 1979 and amended several times 
since, the California Density Bonus Law is designed to encourage and incentivize affordable, senior 
and transit-oriented housing development. The Density Bonus Law (found in California Government 
Code Sections 65915 – 65918) achieves this objective by requiring local agencies to support the 
development of eligible projects at greater residential densities through the granting of incentives, 
concessions, waivers, and/or reductions to applicable development regulations. In 2021, the state 
legislature amended the law requiring local agencies to allow up to 50% density bonus for eligible 
projects near transit effective January 1, 2022.  
 
The City of San Mateo adopted a local Density Bonus Ordinance (San Mateo Municipal Code 27.15 
Density Bonus) on April 16, 2018. The local Below Market Rate (BMR) program, which requires 15% 
of new units to be affordable, was developed to implement the ordinance, and the last revision 
came into effective on February 3, 2020.   
 
In 2021, the city updated the City of San Mateo Density Bonus/Below Market Rate Program 
provisions to provide clarification for developers when applying the provisions of new State Density 
Bonus Law in conjunction with San Mateo’s Below Market Rate Program.  
 
C. Interim Community Benefit Framework for Development Projects - There are several scenarios 
where a developer may be required to provide community benefits beyond code requirements as 
part of a development application. These additional benefits are typically provided as part of a 
development agreement negotiation or as required by existing General Plan goals and policies; and 
are only required in circumstances when a developer has a request that exceeds baseline City 
standard. On March 15, 2021, the City Council adopted a Resolution to document the interim 
process for determining community benefits and public improvements for certain development 
projects. This “interim program” is intended to serve as a limited-term framework while a more 
comprehensive and detailed program is anticipated to be completed in conjunction with the 
General Plan Update.  
 
D. Mechanical Parking Standards – In 2021, the city initiated an update of the parking standards to 
establish interim parking standards to include mechanical parking; thereby setting into motion the 
opportunity for new developments to utilize mechanical parking systems in lieu of, or in 
combination with, traditional surface parking or parking garages. On December 14, 2021, the city’s 
Planning Commission held a public hearing on the interim parking standards and recommended 
their approval to the City Council. City Council public hearing for adoption was scheduled for 
January 3, 2022.  
 
9. AMENDMENTS TO THE GENERAL PLAN. 
State law allows the city to amend its General Plan no more than four times per year. Amendments 
may be proposed and acted upon at any time during the year and one action may include multiple 
amendments. Any changes to the General Plan require public hearing by the City Council and 
evaluation of the environmental impacts as require by the California Environmental Quality Act.  
 
No applications for General Plan amendment was submitted or approved in 2021.  
 
500 of 662

--- page 501 ---
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report 2021                                                         
 P a g e  | 5 
10. MAJOR MILESTONES AND PROJECTS. 
The following highlights major planning activities and projects that support the goals of the General 
Plan. Some of the projects are partially funded through grants, these have been identified with an “*”. 
Community planning activities/programs are multi-year initiatives and, for the purposes of the APR, the 
information below includes a status summary for projects that were initiated, continued or completed 
in 2021.       
 
Background on Grants 
SB 2 Planning Grant – In 2019, the city applied for and received $310,000 in grant funding for a 
Comprehensive Development Impact Fee Study and development of Objective Design Standards for 
multifamily projects. The Agreement with state Housing and Community Development was executed on 
December 10, 2019, and initiated work on the projects as described below. 
 
Local Early Action Planning (LEAP) Grant – In July 2020, the city an application seeking $500,000 in grant 
funding for planning initiatives to increase the supply of housing and remove barriers. The grant is 
proposed to fund a significant portion of the update of the Housing Element, development of an 
automated and mechanical parking system ordinance to provide an alternative to traditional parking, 
development of a community benefits program, and partial funding of a Downtown Parking Study and 
code amendment. The city entered into a formal agreement with California Department of Housing and 
Community Development (HCD) in February 2021, and initiated work on the projects as described 
below.  
 
Planning Activities 
A. Development Impact Fee Study* – In 2020, the city contracted with a consulting firm and initiated 
the study of citywide development impact fees that apply to a variety of development projects. 
Substantial progress was made in 2021, and the city held public study session meetings with the 
City Council in June and September of 2021 to share study findings, gather public input and receive 
direction from the City Council regarding policy options for reducing the impact fee burden on 
affordable housing projects and exploring possible incentive programs for affordable housing. 
Further work on this initiative is anticipated in 2022.  
    
B. Objective Design Standards* - In 2017, the Governor signed multiple housing bills including Senate 
Bill (SB) 35 Streamlined Approval Process (found in California Government Code Section 65913.4) 
which provides a streamlined, ministerial approval process for certain types of multi-unit housing 
projects (two or more residential units) provided they meet certain conditions and are consistent 
with objective zoning and design review standards. In response to this new legislation, the city 
initiated the development of Objective Design Standards for applicable multi-unit housing projects 
which will include related amendments to the San Mateo Municipal Code. A virtual workshop was 
held on June 1, 2021 to gather community input and a public study session meeting was held on 
August 24, 2021 with the Planning Commission to gather additional public input and Planning 
Commission direction. Community input is an integral part of developing the draft Objective Design 
Standards that will be considered by the Planning Commission and City Council in 2022. 
 
C. Housing Element Update* – In 2020, the city entered into a multi-year contract with a consultant to 
assist with the update Housing Element (6th Cycle) to meet the city’s Regional Housing Needs 
Assessment (RHNA) and comply with applicable state laws. During 2021, significate progress was 
made in analyzing sites throughout the city in preparation for releasing the draft Housing Element 
in 2022. The city held several virtual community workshops in March, April, May and November 
2021 to gather community and stakeholder input; held study sessions with the Planning 
Commission and City Council in October and November 2021 to gather input on existing policies 
and programs and suggestions for new ones; conducted an online survey from October 11, 2021 to 
January 15, 2022; and held five pop-up activities in Fall of 2021. Additionally, the city is part of 21 
501 of 662

--- page 502 ---
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report 2021                                                         
 P a g e  | 6 
Elements which is a countywide collaboration of all 21 jurisdictions in San Mateo County working 
together on Housing Element issues. The 21 Elements group hosted four public engagement events 
in September, October and November 2021. As the Housing Element is a part of the General Plan, it 
should be noted that the two project teams are working together and collaborating on outreach 
activities. A summary of the General Plan update project is described below.  
 
D. General Plan Update – The General Plan Update is a multi-year effort that was initiated in 2018 and 
has a target for adoption by the end of 2023. The General Plan Update effort was paused during 
most of 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, with the effort being resumed in the beginning of 
2021.  During this past year, the City conducted an outreach and engagement effort to scope three 
land use and circulation alternatives, with the City Council selecting three land use and circulation 
alternatives for further study in August 2021.  The remainder of the year was spend preparing a 
technical analysis that compared the differing outcomes of the alternative scenarios against a set of 
metrics, including environmental sustainability, traffic and circulation impacts, impacts on utilities 
and public services, and applicable state regulations. The preferred land use and circulation 
scenario will be selected in the spring of 2022 and will be followed by additional community 
outreach and engagement and preparation of the full General Plan. 
 
E. Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Pedestrian Access Plan* (aka San Mateo Walks to Transit) – 
The multi-year project consists of a comprehensive study to identify opportunities for improving 
walking routes to transit within the City’s TOD areas. The project focuses on improving pedestrian 
conditions around the City’s three Caltrain stations (Downtown, Hillsdale, Hayward Park) and El 
Camino Real, which is experiencing several housing and mixed-use development projects in recent 
years. The outcome will be a Plan that includes a list of pedestrian improvement projects that will 
create a safe, connected, and comfortable path of travel to transit to encourage residents and 
workers located within a half mile from a Caltrain station to walk to transit. The project is funded by 
Transportation Development Act (TDA) Article 3 grant with a local match. The City Council approved 
the project in January 7, 2020 and significant progress was made this year. Beginning with the 
project initiation in April 26, 2021, the City held various community outreach activities in October 
2021, which included interactive mapping activities, pop-up events, focus group meetings, as well 
as, an online survey. Additionally, study session with the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission was held on August 11, 2021. Additional meetings with the Sustainability 
Infrastructure Commission and City Council are scheduled for 2022 with final plan adoption 
anticipated in Winter 2022. 
 
F. Complete Streets Plan* - The San Mateo Complete Streets Plan will transform the goals of the City’s 
General Plan to develop complete streets that are safe and accessible for all modes into an 
actionable plan to guide the City’s roadway design for the future. This plan seeks to apply the 
Complete Streets methodology to help the City’s circulation network accommodate all modes and 
abilities; and will implement data analysis and context-sensitive design approaches to increase 
citywide safety and mobility for multimodal transportation. The proposed Complete Streets Plan 
will identify goals and policies, evaluate existing conditions for all modes, identify streetscape 
concepts and design standards, and develop an implementation plan with clearly identified priority 
areas and projects. The city worked with Caltrans on the funding agreement and received notice to 
proceed in mid-December 2021. Work in 2021 was limited and more substantial progress is 
anticipated in 2022. It should be noted that through the Plan, the city may also qualify for future 
grant opportunities to implement Plan programs and capital improvement projects.   
 
 
502 of 662

--- page 503 ---
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report 2021                                                         
 P a g e  | 7 
 
Major Construction/Development Projects 
Planning applications that were submitted during one reporting year typically receive their entitlements 
in the next reporting year. Consistent with the GP APR reporting requirements, planning application 
entitlements that were approved during the reporting year are included in the APR report. Therefore, 
for 2021, the city approved entitlements for 122 net new residential units and made progress on 
several publicly funded projects. Major projects are highlighted below with a brief status update: 
 
2940 South Norfolk Street (Hampton Inn and Suites Hotel) – On August 20, 2018, the City Council 
approved the redevelopment of a hotel site with a new 182-room hotel building. Phased building 
permits were issued beginning in 2019 with substantial construction progress in 2020 and 2021. 
Construction is anticipated to continue through 2022 with completion is projected sometime in early 
half of 2023.  
 
Bay Meadows Phase II Station 1 & 5 – On September 25, 2018, the Planning Commission approved the 
development of two vacant parcels in the Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan area with two office 
buildings totally approximately 184,295 square feet. Designed as a Transit Oriented Development (TOD) 
community, Bay Meadows encompasses 18 blocks comprising of a mix of residential unit types, office, 
retail, services and parks. The building permits for Station 1 & 5 were issued in 2019 with construction 
in 2020 and 2021; and anticipated to continue in 2022.  
 
303 Baldwin Ave – Approved on January 8, 2019, the mixed-use development consists of 64-residential 
units, ground floor commercial/retail use and office use above. The site was formerly a local grocery 
store serving neighborhoods near downtown. Building permits were issued in 2020 with construction in 
2020 and 2021; and anticipated to continue in 2022.    
 
1, 2, and 3 Waters – On January 23, 2019, the City Council approved development a 190-unit residential 
development, replacing the 11.1-acre Waters Technology Office Park. The new development consists of 
a mix of housing types. Building permits were issued in 2020 with construction in 2020 and 2021; and 
anticipated to continue in 2022.    
 
Kiku Crossing – On August 17, 2020, the City Council approved a 225-unit affordable/work-force 
housing development and new public parking garage on two downtown parking lot sites. The project is 
one of the first in the state to utilize Assembly Bill 1763 which allows for taller and denser affordable 
housing developments near transit. The applicant made progress on building permit and site 
development permit applications(s) in 2021. Issuance of permits are anticipated in early 2022 with 
subsequent construction scheduled to begin in 2022. [publicly funded project]  
 
Peninsula Heights – Approved on December 8, 2020, the project consists of redevelopment of two 
office use sites, totaling 15.45 acres, with a new 290-unit residential development (of which 29 units 
are below market rate residential units). Building permit application(s) for construction were submitted 
in 2021 which are currently under review. 
 
Bay Meadows Phase II MU 2 & MU 3 – Approved on June 11, 2021, the mixed-use development 
consists of two buildings with 67 residential units and office space. Building permit applications and 
subsequent construction are anticipated in future years.  
 
1919 O’Farrell – Approved on October 15, 2021, the project consists of the demolition of existing 
offices and construction of a new 49-unit residential development. Building permit applications and 
subsequent construction are anticipated in future years.     
 
503 of 662

--- page 504 ---
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report 2021                                                         
 P a g e  | 8 
Grade-Separation Project – Initiated in 2017, the project implements circulation improvements 
identified in the Rail Corridor Plan and Bay Meadows Phase II Specific Plan. The project provides 
enhanced pedestrian, bicycle and vehicular connections east and west of the Hillsdale Caltrain Station 
to improve safety for motorists and pedestrians; and reduce local traffic congestion. In 2021, the city 
continued to work collaboratively with Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board (JPB) on the grade-
separation project (at 25th, 28th and 31st Avenues). Project was completed in September 2021. [publicly 
funded project] 
 
2050 Detroit Drive (Wastewater Treatment Plant Upgrade) – On July 16, 2018, the City Council 
approved the multi-year project to modernization, expansion, and upgrade of the City’s wastewater 
treatment plant facility. Building permits were issued in 2019 with substantial construction work in 
2020 through 2021. Temporary Certificate of Occupancy for the new Administrative Building is 
anticipated in early half of 2022. [publicly funded project] 
 
Clean Creeks and Flood Protection Initiative – The city is committed to providing the community with 
reliable stormwater infrastructure to help mitigate flood risk; protect our Bay and waterways; create 
safer communities; and reduce impacts of pollution, climate change, and heavy storms. Clean 
waterways, beaches, and properly working infrastructure help protect residents and the environment. 
Marina Lagoon is part of the City’s stormwater system that provides flood control and recreation 
to the entire community, and ecological/wildlife benefits. The Lagoon’s ability to maximize these 
benefits is compromised; and significant improvements are needed. The city conducted a survey to 
gather community input in Fall of 2021, and meetings with the Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission and City Council are anticipated in early half of 2022. [publicly funded project] 
 
North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project – The North Shoreview Flood Improvement Project 
include improvements to the Coyote Point and Poplar Avenue Pump Stations to increase pump capacity 
and raise a 1,300-foot levee segment located between the San Mateo and Burlingame border off 
Airport Boulevard. Construction began in September 2020 with substantial progress in 2021. 
Construction is anticipated to continue through 2022. [publicly funded project] 
 
5th Avenue Bike Lanes Project – The 5th Avenue Bike Lanes project implements the 2020 Bicycle Master 
Plan and includes new Class II bicycle lanes on 5th Avenue from Virginia Avenue to El Camino Real as 
well as concrete work on the street and sidewalk. The striped bike lanes will be constructed as part of 
the Citywide Street Rehabilitation Package 1-C (Phase 2) project. Coordination between the city’s 
paving schedule and bicycle projects is important to guarantee the bike facility has a smooth surface. 
This project will expand our bicycle network and create a safe connection for bicyclists accessing 
Downtown San Mateo. Construction began in September 2021. [publicly funded project] 
 
North Central Bike Lanes Project – The city received funding from the federal Community Development 
Block Grant (CDBG) to implement pedestrian and bicycle improvements in the North Central 
neighborhood. Once completed, the project will further develop our bicycle network and create bicycle 
connections to Downtown San Mateo. In December 2021, project contractors installed ADA-compliant 
sidewalk ramps along E. Poplar Avenue and N. Claremont Street, N. Humboldt Street and Peninsula 
Avenue, and N. Humboldt Street and Indian Avenue. Work on this project is anticipated to continue in 
2022. [publicly funded project] 
     
 
504 of 662

--- page 505 ---
EXHIBIT A - Land Use Implementation Summary
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
GOAL 1a: 
Maintain San Mateo as the pre-eminent city in San Mateo County.
Ongoing through collective effort of all city departments.
GOAL 1b: 
Continue the balance between development and open space, between conserving the lower density residential neighborhoods and 
meeting the City's fair share of new dwellings, between residential and commercial development, between conserving old buildings 
and new buildings, and between jobs and housing.
The city has incorporated this into its Development Review process which 
includes staff from multiple departments and the San Mateo Consolidated 
Fire Department (a separate agency). Implementation is ongoing.
GOAL 1c:
Establish a distinctive city image distinguishable from other Peninsula communities to improve the quality of both the built and 
natural environments, and assure that future development is both of high quality and compatible with the City's existing character. 
Guide development to provide efficient circulation and to protect existing neighborhoods, views and natural resources.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
Goal 1d: 
Concentrate major high-intensity commercial office and retail development in specific focal areas, as delineated on the City Image 
Plan, Figure UD-1.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
GOAL 1e:
Provide adequate transportation, utilities, cultural, educational, recreational, and public facilities, and ensure their availability to all 
members of the community. Establish San Mateo as the cultural center of San Mateo County.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process, and in 
planning work such as Public Work Department's Capital Improvement 
Projects, Park and Recreation Department's Facilities Plan.
GOAL 1f:
Provide a wide range of land uses, including retail, commercial services, office, industrial, parks, open space, and housing, to 
adequately meet the needs of the community.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
GOAL 1g:
Attain development which occurs in an orderly fashion and which limits adverse environmental impacts to the community.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
GOAL 1h:
Encourage participation of residents and representatives of local businesses and neighboring jurisdictions in planning for and 
reviewing community development.
Encouraging participation is an ongoing part of Development Review 
process, and in community planning initatives such as update of General 
Plan, Housing Element, Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Pedestrian 
Access Plan (aka San Mateo Walks to Transit) and Complete Streets Plan .
GOAL 1i:
Consider the effects of Climate Change on the City of San Mateo. Incorporate Sustainability into the City’s policies, work programs 
and standard operations.
Ongoing implementation through City Council priority setting. Adopted on 
4/6/2020, the Climate Action Plan sets forth goals and policies for the city to 
incorporate sustainability in future policy work, work programs and 
operations. On December 6, 2021, the City Council approved the "2021 
Multijurisdictional Local Hazard  Mitigation Plan" which includes climate 
adaptation policies and actions.
POLICY LU 1.1
Planning Area Growth and Development to 2030. Plan for land uses, population density, and land use intensity as shown on the Land 
Use, Height and Building Intensity and City Image Plans for the entire planning area. Design the circulation system and infrastructure 
to provide capacity for the total development expected in 2030. Review projections annually and adjust infrastructure and circulation 
requirements as required if actual growth varies significantly from that projected.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.2
Land Use Plan. Adopt and maintain the Land Use Plan which graphically displays the intended uses and development 
intensity/density for all land within the planning area.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.3
Land Use Standards. Adopt and maintain the land use categories included in Appendix B defining the range of intended uses and 
linked to development intensity/density limits.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
505 of 662

--- page 506 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
POLICY LU 1.4
Development Intensity/Density. Adopt and maintain the development intensity/density limits as identified on the Land Use Map and 
Building Intensity Plan, and as specified in Policy LU 6A.2. Development intensity/density shall recognize natural environmental 
constraints, such as flood plains, earthquake faults, debris flow areas, hazards, traffic and access, necessary services, and general 
community and neighborhood design. Maintain a density and building intensity range, with densities/intensities at the higher end of 
the range to be considered based on provision of public benefits such as affordable housing, increased open space, public plazas or 
recreational facilities, or off-site infrastructure improvements.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.5
Building Height. Maintain maximum building height limits contained in Appendix C, and as specified in Policy LU 6A.2, closely 
matched with the Land Use categories and Building Intensity standards.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.6
Residential Development. Facilitate housing production by carrying out the goals and policies in the Housing Element.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.7
Multi-Family Areas. Allow multi-family areas to develop at densities delineated on the Land Use Plan.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.8
Mixed Use Commercial-Residential. Facilitate housing production by allowing commercial mixed use development which includes 
multi-family dwellings in all non-residential land use categories except service commercial, manufacturing/ industrial and parks/open 
space.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.9
Single-Family and Duplex Preservation. Protect established predominantly single-family areas by limiting new development in such 
areas to single-family uses, and protect predominantly duplex areas by limiting new development to low-density residential uses as 
delineated on the Land Use Map. Consider redesignating multi-family areas to single-family and low-density residential uses where 
such uses predominant and where the creation of additional legal non-conforming uses would be minimized.
State laws, such as those pertaining to ADUs/JADUs, may prempt aspects of 
this policy.
POLICY LU 1.9a
Single-Family Dwelling Projects. Enhance the livability of San Mateo neighborhoods by reviewing Single-Family Dwelling Design 
Review planning applications for compatibility with neighborhood character, relationship to the neighborhood, and elements of 
design and site layout as described in the City’s Single-Family Design Guidelines.
State laws, such as those pertaining to ADUs/JADUs, may prempt aspects of 
this policy.
POLICY LU 1.9b
Duplex Projects. Provide a transition between neighborhoods of differing densities by ensuring two-family dwelling construction and 
remodeling projects are consistent with the Duplex Design Guidelines which emphasize neighborhood character, relationship to the 
neighborhood, and elements of design and site layout.
State laws, such as those pertaining to ADUs/JADUs, may prempt aspects of 
this policy.
POLICY LU 1.10
Commercial Development. Encourage industrial, service, retail, and office development which is compatible with the desired 
character of the area and with adjacent residential areas in terms of intensity of use, height, bulk and design as delineated on the 
Land Use Plan, Building Height Plan and Building Intensity Plan. Commercial development adjacent to residential areas shall address 
concerns pertaining to traffic, truck loading, trash/recycling activities, noise, visual impacts, and public safety including hazardous 
material storage, fire safety, air pollutant emissions and odors.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.11
Commercial Focal Areas. Concentrate the most intense office and retail uses at locations delineated on the Land Use Plan. Discourage 
such uses outside the commercial nodes delineated on the Land Use Plan.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.12
Neighborhood Shopping Centers. Retain neighborhood shopping centers, with retail being the predominant use, at low to medium 
intensities and locations delineated on the Land Use Plan and Building Intensity Plan.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 2            
506 of 662

--- page 507 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
POLICY LU 1.13
Prohibit Residential Uses in Service Commercial/Manufacturing Areas. To promote the retention of service commercial areas which 
provide convenient, vital community services and a balanced local economy; prohibit new residential development in service 
commercial/manufacturing areas delineated on the Land Use Plan. Require businesses locating adjacent to residential areas to 
minimize Service commercial uses, including auto and truck repair, building material yards, and animal hospitals, are recognized as 
important components of the overall land use mix. They provide convenient access to needed services, generate tax revenues, and 
contribute to a diverse employment base. However, given the nature of these uses, provisions are needed to minimize nuisance 
impacts such as noise, odors, litter and blight, especially near residential neighborhoods. This may include limitations on outdoor 
storage, screening, and upgrade of buildings. Major service commercial strips include: Amphlett Boulevard, Claremont/Railroad 
Avenue and Palm Avenue.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.14
Special Use Permit for Residential Uses. To ensure a balanced mix of land use categories and to minimize nuisance impacts between 
conflicting uses a special use permit shall be required for residential uses in areas designated as neighborhood commercial, regional 
community commercial, and executive office on the Land Use Plan. However, mixed use land use designations are exempt from this 
requirement, as is development on the Hillsdale Shopping Center Property subject to the Q5 Qualified Overlay District, so long as 
such development is consistent with a Master Development Plan prepared consistent with the policies of this General Plan.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.15
Mixed Use. Encourage developments which mix commercial retail and office uses with residential uses at locations and 
intensities/densities as delineated on the Land Use Plan and Building Intensity Plan.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.16
Hotels. Encourage development of hotels in commercial areas and allow small "bed and breakfast" hotels in multiple family areas 
where they are consistent with the density of adjacent uses.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 1.17
Transportation Corridors. Maintain adequate transportation corridors to accommodate highway and rail transit. Consider 
redesignation of portions of the railway corridor not required for transportation purposes for development which is compatible with 
adjacent uses and does not generate significant adverse impacts.
Ongoing work by Public Works Department.
POLICY LU 1.18
Major Institutions/Special Facilities. Encourage the retention of major institutions and special facilities such as the San Mateo County 
Events Center, College of San Mateo, San Mateo County Hospital, Mills Health Center, and Peninsula Golf and Country Club. Allow 
reuse or redevelopment of institutions and special facilities subject to the approval of a Specific Plan and/or Master Plan.
Ongoing implementation; however, underutilized sites owned by a public 
agency may be explored for other uses including affordable housing.
POLICY LU 1.19
Legal Non-conforming Developments. Allow legally established non-conforming uses and buildings to be maintained and to be 
reconstructed if destroyed by fire or natural disaster; allow minor expansion of legal non-conforming developments. Encourage 
reconstruction and/or minor expansion to have a design which is visually compatible with surrounding development.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process. 
POLICY LU 1.20
Code Enforcement. As a high priority support code enforcement to ensure that all uses are in compliance with City codes and 
conditions of development approval.
Ongoing implementation through department work planning. 
GOAL 2a:
Promote economic vitality which provides jobs for existing and future residents and maintains the City's ability to finance public 
improvements and human services.
City does not have an economic development plan; however, city staff 
works with local organizations such as Chamber of Commerce and 
Downtown San Mateo Association, to encourage businesses.
GOAL 2b: 
Develop and implement a long-term economic development plan and take actions to create financial stability for the City and high-
value-added jobs for its residents.
City does not have an economic development plan. Instead, the city 
responds to current needs depending upon changing economic conditions.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 3            
507 of 662

--- page 508 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
GOAL 2c: 
Promote an intensity of commercial activity that enhances the business climate in the City to increase the level of business types 
which will benefit existing commercial uses.
City does not have an economic development plan; however, city staff 
works with local organizations such as Chamber of Commerce and 
Downtown San Mateo Association, to encourage businesses.
GOAL 2d: 
Encourage the development and redevelopment of major sites delineated in the City's economic development plan.
City does not have an economic development plan. Instead, the city 
responds to current needs depending upon changing economic conditions.
GOAL 2e:
Maintain streamlined Development Review and Building Permit processes.
Multiple city departments are involved in the Development Review process. 
As staff in each department evaluates existing codes, policies and 
procedures, they also work to update related handouts to clarify application 
requirements and development processing. Ongoing implementation as part 
of each department's work planning. 
POLICY LU 2.1
Economic Development. Attract new businesses and encourage the retention and expansion of existing businesses which enhance 
the City's economic base.
Ongoing as City staff works with local organizations such as Chamber of 
Commerce and Downtown San Mateo Association, to encourage businesses.
POLICY LU 2.2
High City Revenue Generators. Retain existing businesses and attract new businesses which are high City revenue generators.
Ongoing as City staff works with local organizations such as Chamber of 
Commerce and Downtown San Mateo Association, to encourage businesses.
POLICY LU 2.3
Local Employment. Encourage uses which provide opportunities for employment of all the City's residents, with emphasis placed on 
major employers that provide high value-added jobs.
Ongoing as City staff works with local organizations such as Chamber of 
Commerce and Downtown San Mateo Association, to encourage businesses.
POLICY LU 2.4
Downtown Plan. Establish downtown San Mateo as the social, cultural, and economic center of the City with a wide range of office, 
medical, residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and densities while encouraging pedestrian activity and bicycle 
connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 2.5
Economic Development Plan. Update and maintain the Economic Development Strategy that encourages new private investment, 
increases employment opportunities, ensures a variety of commercial uses, develops a balance between high value-added 
employment and revenue generating business, and promotes San Mateo as an economically viable and competitive location.
City does not have an economic development plan. Instead, the city 
responds to current needs depending upon changing economic conditions.
POLICY LU 2.6
Development Review Process. Review development proposals and building permit applications in an efficient and timely manner 
while maintaining quality standards in accordance with City codes, policies, and regulations.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 2.7
Visitor Economy. Support the continued development of the City's visitor economy including lodging, entertainment, recreation, 
retail, and a lively local character.
City will collaborate as part of a regional strategy with other peninsula cities 
close to the airport and convention center, when the opportunity arises.
POLICY LU 2.8
Convenience Retail. Encourage and preserve convenience retail uses located adjacent to residential neighborhoods.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 2.9
Support Service Uses. Encourage a variety of support service uses such as restaurants, day care facilities, and markets in locations 
that are appropriate to provide services to residential neighborhoods and commercial uses.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 2.10
Optimize Development Opportunities. Ensure that developments optimize the development potential of property in major 
commercial areas such as the Downtown Retail Core and along South El Camino Real.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
GOAL 3a:
Maintain downtown San Mateo as an economic, cultural, and social center of the community.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process and 
through processing of Special Event Permits for actities hosted by the city 
and other parties.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 4            
508 of 662

--- page 509 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
POLICY LU 3.1
Downtown Plan. As the social, cultural and economic center of the City, the downtown shall maintain a wide range of office, medical, 
residential, entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and densities.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 3.2
Significant Historic Structures. Protect key landmarks, historic structures, and the historic character that exists in parts of downtown 
as defined in the Conservation/Open Space Element.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
GOAL 3b: 
Promote residential land uses and the visual improvement of El Camino Real.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 3.3
El Camino Real. Retain the general residential and landscaped character of El Camino Real north of Tilton Avenue. Promote the visual 
upgrading of El Camino Real south of Ninth Avenue through increased landscaping, coordination of public improvements, property 
maintenance, and sign control, through conformance with the El Camino Real Master Plan. Residential uses shall be encouraged to 
provide diversity to the existing commercial character, and building setbacks from adjoining residences used to reduce perceived 
building mass from El Camino Real. Pedestrian activity and safety should be encouraged.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
GOAL 3c: 
Promote transit-oriented development in designated areas adjacent to Caltrain stations.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 3.4
Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan). Implement the Corridor Plan to allow, encourage, and provide 
guidance for the creation of world class transit-oriented development (TOD) within a half-mile radius of the Hillsdale and Hayward 
Park Caltrain station areas, while maintaining and improving the quality of life for those who already live and work in the area. 
Development within the plan area shall comply with the policies of the Plan.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 3.5
Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Land Use Designation. Maintain TOD land use designations for areas in direct proximity to the 
Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain stations.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 3.6
Hillsdale Station Area Plan. Implement the Hillsdale Station Area Plan to develop a relocated Hillsdale Caltrain Station around an 
intermodal transit center surrounded by mixed-use development and other transit-oriented forms of development that is connect to 
neighborhoods to the east and west as well as the 25th Avenue business district.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
GOAL 4a: 
Facilities. Seek to provide a safe and predictable supply of water, and provide storm drainage, sewer and flood control facilities 
adequate to serve existing needs, the projected population and employment growth and to reduce the associated life safety and 
health risks to acceptable levels.
City does not provide water, instead the city continues to collaborate with 
local water providers to supply water. To address storm drainage, sewer and 
flood control facilities, the Public Works Department continues work on the 
Wastewater Treatment Plant upgrade, new Underground Flow Equalization 
System, and pump station upgrade projects in multiple areas of city.
GOAL 4b: 
Public Facilities. Support the provision and maintenance of adequate sites and public facilities owned and/or operated by the City or 
other government agencies to meet existing needs and the projected 2030 population and employment including, schools, post 
office facilities, recreation facilities, libraries, art centers, museums, and offices. Encourage joint use and public-private partnerships 
where feasible.
In 2021, Public Works Department managed construction the Waste Water 
Treatement Plant upgrade and other public projects. City continues to 
support local school district's school enrollment projection studies. 
GOAL 4c: 
Health and Safety. Protect the community's health, safety, and welfare by maintaining adequate fire and life safety protection, 
providing a safe environment with a minimum of crime, reducing unreasonable risk to life and property caused by flooding, 
earthquakes or other natural disasters, and managing the use, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials.
As a separate agency, the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department is 
responsible for ensuring adequate fire services. Police Department 
continues to service the community in reducing risk to life and property. In 
2021, Public Works Department continues to manage construction of 
several public projects to reduce risks by flooding. Evaluation of hazardous 
material impacts is ongoing as part of the Devleopment Review process.
POLICY LU 4.1
Fiscal Evaluation and Priorities. All policies herein which seek to: 1) establish levels of service provided by the City or 2) address the 
construction of City buildings, shall be guiding principles only and shall be subject to the governing fiscal policies and priorities 
established by the City Council in the budget.
1 & 2) Ongoing as part of the city's annual budget review process.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 5            
509 of 662

--- page 510 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
POLICY LU 4.2
Developer's Contribution Policy. Require new development to pay on an equitable basis for new or expanded public improvements 
needed to support the new or changed land use or development.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process. In 2021, 
Community Development Department continued work on the  
Comprehensive Development Impact Fee Study, completion is anticipated in 
2022.
POLICY LU 4.3
Location of Critical Facilities. Encourage active, healthy lifestyles, by promoting pedestrian and bicycle connectivity between civic 
facilities. Avoid locating critical facilities, such as hospitals, schools, fire, police, emergency service facilities and utilities in areas 
subject to slope failure, flooding and other hazards as identified in the Safety Element, where feasible.
City encourages active healthy lifestyles through education and events such 
as Public Work Department's Bike Rodeo. Ongoing implement and, where 
it's feasible, the City evaluate sites to avoid locating critical facilities in areas 
subject to hazards identified in the Safety Element. 
POLICY LU 4.4
Water Supply. Seek to ensure a safe and predictable water system for existing and future development by taking the following 
actions:  1) As a high priority, work with California Water Company and Estero Municipal Improvement District and adjacent 
jurisdictions to develop supplemental water sources and conservation efforts. 2) Strongly encourage water conservation by 
implementing pro-active water conservation methods, including requiring all new development to install low volume flush toilets, 
low-flow shower heads, and utilize drip irrigation while promoting high-efficiency washing machines and establishing an education 
program to improve water conservation practices. 3) Investigate the feasibility of developing capacity to use recycled wastewater, 
stormwater runoff, graywater and ground water that will enable reuse of water for irrigation purposes, freeing comparable potable 
water supplies for other uses.
1 & 2) Ongoing as the city continues to collaborate with local water districts 
to devleop supplemental water sources, educate/provide resources on 
water conservation. 
3) Funding for the feasibility study is post-poned. The city is prioritizing 
funding to complete construction of the Waste Water Treatment Plant 
upgrade, new Underground Flow Equalization System and serveral pump 
station upgrade projects.
POLICY LU 4.4.5
Stormwater Treatment. Continue to implement the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program to ensure 
compliance with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. 1) Prevent water pollution from point and non-
point sources. 2) Minimize stormwater runoff and pollution by encouraging low-impact design features, such as pervious parking 
surfaces, bioswales and filter strips in new development. 3) Encourage the use of drought-tolerant and native vegetation in 
landscaping.
1, 2 & 3) Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 4.5
Wastewater Treatment Plant Expansion. Provide adequate waste water treatment for the projected 2030 service area population, 
employment and development. Require that any future expansion of the Waste Water Treatment Plant (WWTP) be designed to be 
compatible with the adjacent parks, school, and low-density residential areas by screening views of the WWTP with extensive and tall 
landscaping and reducing the height of all new structures to the maximum practicably feasible. Any future expansion of the WWTP 
shall take into account the possible rise in sea level.
The Public Works Department continues to manage the construction of the 
Wastewater Treatment Plant upgrade,  new Underground Flow Equalization 
System, and several pump station upgrade project in 2021.
POLICY LU 4.6
Inter-Agency Coordination. Coordinate future expansion or modification of the Wastewater Treatment Plant with the other users of 
the plant including the Estero Municipal Improvement District (Foster City), the Crystal Springs County Sanitation District, 
Hillsborough and Belmont.
Ongoing coodination work by the Public Works Department. 
POLICY 4.7
Sewer System. Provide a sewer system which safely and efficiently conveys sewage to the waste water treatment plant. Implement 
the Sewer System Management Plan (SSMP) to ensure proper maintenance, operations and management all parts of the wastewater 
collection system. 1) Comprehensive Sewer System Study. As a high priority maintain the comprehensive sewer system study to 
assess the efficiency and integrity of the sewer lines and facilities, and develop a Capital Improvement Program to make any 
necessary improvements. 2) Sewer Requirements for New Development. Require new major multi-family and commercial 
developments to evaluate the main sewer lines in the project vicinity which will be utilized by the new development and make any 
improvements necessary to convey the additional sewage flows.
1) Ongoing work by Public Works Department to implement the SSMP and 
develop CIP to make necessary improvements. 
2) Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 6            
510 of 662

--- page 511 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
POLICY LU 4.8
Library Resources and Services. Continue to maintain a comprehensive collection of resources and services to help the community 
discover, enjoy, connect and learn in an ever-changing world while offering quality library services and programs to a diverse 
community promoting literacy and ongoing learning.
As a land use, the city's Library continues to serve the San Mateo 
community.
POLICY LU 4.9
Cultural and Entertainment Facilities. Encourage the establishment of cultural and entertainment facilities in the downtown core and 
allow these types of uses to fulfill retail frontage requirements.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 4.10
Police Station. Provide Police Station facilities to meet the facility requirements through 2030.
Ongoing, as city's annual budget review process includes consideration for 
Police Station facilities as necessary.
POLICY LU 4.11
Fire Stations. Maintain a high level of service by modernizing Fire Stations. Provide new stations and improvements to existing 
stations and training facilities to meet equipment, staffing, and training requirements, as well as, Essential Services Building 
Requirements.
While the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (SMCFD) is responsible 
for fire service operations, each local partner agency is responsible for 
physical assets within its city including upgrades and adding new fire 
stationsThe city and SMCFD will continue to collaborate on citywide service 
needs.
POLICY LU 4.12
Corporation Yard. Provide for such corporation yard functions as new vehicle repair facilities, administrative office space, and other 
facilities needed through 2030. Consider co-locating public works facilities and operations where feasible.
Ongoing work by Public Works Department.
POLICY 4.13
City Hall. Provide City Hall office space, and consider construction of a Downtown facility to meet City staffing needs through the year 
2030.
Not applicable in 2021.
POLICY LU 4.14
School Assistance. As a high priority, support quality public education.
City supports school projects such as Borel Middle School gymnasium 
project. City supports school enrollment projection studies by providing 
information from Housing Element Annual Report and WhatsHappening.
POLICY LU 4.15
School Site Reuse or Redevelopment. Ensure that reuse or redevelopment of surplus public school sites is compatible with 
surrounding land uses. At the time any school sites are declared surplus, establish residential densities consistent with surrounding 
densities. Give first priority and consideration to community recreation needs for reuse of school sites in accordance with the 
priorities in the Open Space\Conservation Element. Where it is in the community's interests to retain public recreation facilities, 
consider allowing density transfers from the portion of the site retained in public recreation use, as a means of reducing the cost of 
retaining the recreation facilities and achieving the maximum amount of housing.
Not applicable in 2021 as there were no available school sites.
POLICY LU 4.16
Service Improvement and Expansion. Seek to ensure adequate gas, electric and communication systems to serve existing and future 
needs while minimizing impacts on existing and future residents by taking the following actions: 1) Underground electrical and 
communication transmission and distribution lines in residential and commercial areas as funds permit. 2) Require all new 
developments to underground lines and provide underground connections when feasible. 3) Balance the need for cellular coverage 
with the desire to minimize visual impacts of cellular facilities, antennas, and equipment shelters.
1) No funding was available for this in 2021.
2) Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
3) Ongoing as part of the wireless application review process by Public Work 
Department and through the Development Review process.
POLICY LU 4.17
Library Service. Maintain a materials budget, staffing, and service hours for the City's library system that are adequate to meet the 
community needs, provide current and adequate materials, and meet the continuing changes in information technology.
As a land use, the city's Library continues to serve the San Mateo 
community. Adjustments in libarary services were made to address safety 
procautions due to the pandemic.
POLICY LU 4.18
San Mateo County Hospital. Encourage the County to maintain County Hospital services in the City to provide access to medical care 
for all the City's residents.
No specific actions needed in 2021.
POLICY LU 4.19
Mills Health Center. Support the Mills Health Center remaining in San Mateo, and encourage the continued provision and expansion 
of high-quality medical care services.
No specific actions needed in 2021.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 7            
511 of 662

--- page 512 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
POLICY LU 4.20
Medical Services. Maintain the highest level of medical emergency readiness and response capabilities possible by encouraging inter-
agency medical drills and exercises where hospital personnel work with emergency responders in the field and with Emergency 
Operation Centers and by encouraging citizens to become trained in basic medical triage and first aid through the Community 
Emergency Response Team (CERT).
No specific actions needed in 2021.
POLICY LU 4.21
Child Care. Support the provision of child care programs and facilities to meet current needs and the needs through 2030 by taking 
the following actions: 1) Encourage public and private agencies and employers to provide child care services and facilities. Retain 
existing centers and support programs at school sites and other quasi-institutional facilities, because of their suitability for such uses 
and convenient locations in residential neighborhoods. 2) Encourage the location of child care facilities which are consistent with 
State standards. Continue to allow child care centers in residential neighborhoods where they meet City standards, and encourage 
them at work centers
1) Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
2) City maintains a Child Care Resources webpage with information on 
setting up new child care spaces, resources, and funding opportunities. City 
also continues to collect a Child Care Development Fee which is used to 
provide financial assistance in development of new child care spaces. 
POLICY LU 4.22
Child Care and New Construction. Encourage inclusion of space for child care in new residential and non-residential developments by 
taking the following actions: 1) Provide incentives for inclusion of space for a child care center in a new development. 2) Promote 
child care to developers as an amenity favored by the City. 3) Include child care in appropriate redevelopment projects and for 
redevelopment funds. 4) Continue to implement the developer impact fee for funding child care facilities.
1, 2) City maintains Child Care Resources webpage with resources to set up 
new child care spaces and funding opportunities. Ongoing implementation 
as part of Development Review process.
3) In 2011, the state abolished all redevlepment agencies in California 
thereby removing redevelopment funds as a financial resource for child care 
facilities. This policy will be removed when the General Plan is updated.
4) City collects a Child Care Development Fee which is used to provide 
financial assistance to establish new child care spaces. 
POLICY LU 4.23
Social Services. Support the provision of the City's fair share of social services. Avoid the concentration of social services in any one 
neighborhood, and seek dispersal throughout the City. Encourage other cities to provide their fair share of social service facilities.
Ongoing as city's Housing Division continues to work with social service 
providers and provide support through financial assistance.
POLICY LU 4.24
Fire Inspections. Maintain fire inspection staffing levels to meet existing needs and the projected 2030 population, employment and 
development, and inspections mandated by other governmental agencies.
Ongoing implementation. San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department serves 
cities of San Mateo, Belmont and Foster City. City and SMCFD work 
collaboratively to address changing service needs. SMCFD performs 
inspections related to developments, and implements governmental 
mandates.
POLICY LU 4.25
Maintenance and Replacement. Continue fire apparatus replacement and maintenance programs to provide a high state of 
readiness.
Ongoing as part of city's annual budget review process.
POLICY LU 4.26
Public Education. Provide public education programs targeted to segments of the community posing the greatest concern for fire and 
life safety.
City continues to collaborate with San Mateo Consolidated Fire on CERT 
program to provide public education regarding fire and life safety. City 
continues to support youth prevention/early intervention education, traffic 
safety awareness programs, and neighborhood watch; and continues to 
educate community on public safety through Community Police Academy or 
similar overview courses.
POLICY LU 4.27
Automatic and Mutual Aid Agreements. Maintain automatic and mutual aid agreements with all jurisdictions within San Mateo 
County.
City Council reviews and approves these Agreements. Staff in the Police 
Department and San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (a separate 
agency) implement the Agreement by providing automatic and mutal aid to 
other agencies.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 8            
512 of 662

--- page 513 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
POLICY LU 4.28
Peakload Water Supply. Seek to ensure that the California Water Service Company and the Estero Municipal Improvement District 
provide and maintain a water supply and distribution system which provides an adequate static pressure to deliver a minimum fire 
hydrant flow of 2,500 gallons per minute to all areas of the City, except where a lesser flow is acceptable as determined by the Fire 
Chief. Ensure that new development does not demand a fire flow in excess of that available.
The city does not provide water; however, the Public Works Department 
continues to collaborate with local water providers on water supply and 
distribution systems. City works with local water company/district on 
projects and reviews them as part of the Development Review process.
POLICY LU 4.29
Effective Police Services. Maintain facilities, equipment, and personnel to provide an effective police force to serve existing and 
future population and employment as identified in the Land Use Element.
Ongoing implementation through assessment of facilities, technology and 
personnel needs; and changes to response based on social change and 
legislated requirements. Police and Public Works Departments work 
collaboratively on any necessary police station facility changes. 
POLICY LU 4.30
Defensible Design. Require all developments including parks and public places to incorporate physical security, personal safety, and 
traffic measures to provide a safe environment through application of crime prevention through design principles consistent with the 
City’s Security Ordinance.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 4.31
Solid Waste Disposal. Continue to support programs to reduce solid waste materials in landfill areas in accordance with State 
requirements.
Ongoing in accordance with State requirements.
POLICY LU 4.32
Recycling and Composting. Support programs to recycle solid waste in compliance with State requirements. Require provisions for 
onsite recycling for all new development and expand composting of green waste and food scraps, as directed by the City’s Climate 
Action Plan which is an appendix of the General Plan.
Ongoing in accordance with state requirements.
POLICY LU 4.33
Waste Management. Manage toxic and hazardous wastes by following the goals and policies contained in the Safety Element.
Ongoing in accordance with state requirements.
GOAL 5: 
Promote cooperative interaction with other public agencies regarding regional issues.
Ongoing as the city continues to promote and collaborate with other 
agencies regarding regional issues such as transportation, housing, etc.
POLICY LU 5.1
Inter-Agency Cooperation. Promote and participate in cooperative planning with other public agencies and adjacent jurisdictions, 
especially regarding regional issues such as water supply, traffic congestion, rail transportation, air pollution, waste management, fire 
services, emergency medical services and climate change.
Ongoing as the city continues to collaborate in regional working groups 
regarding regional issues. Example of regional working groups include but is 
not limited to: 21 Elements, Cities/County Associate of Governments 
(C/CAG) of San Mateo County and OneShoreline.
POLICY LU 5.2
Public Agency Developments. Require developments constructed by other governmental agencies to conform to the City's General 
Plan, Zoning Ordinance, and other development regulations to the extent legally possible.
When projects by other public agencies are determined to be subject to the 
city's local land use authority, the city implements this policy through the 
Development Review process. 
GOAL 6: 
Ensure that the City's General Plan is consistent with State Law, legally adequate, and up-to-date.
Given the city's financial resources, the General Plan is updated approx. 
every 10 years. At the time of adoption, General Plan 2030 was consistent 
with applicable state laws. City is currently updating its General Plan and 
Housing Element to comply with applicable state laws.
POLICY LU 6.1
Periodic General Plan Review. Report to the City Council yearly on the status of the implementation of the General Plan and on the 
need to update the plan.
Community Development Department will provide annual updates to City 
Council, and submit the Progress Report to the state.  
POLICY LU 6.2
General Plan Amendments. Amendments to the General Plan shall be considered a maximum of three times per year to ensure that 
Elements remain consistent and that the overall effect of Plan amendments is considered.
No General Plan Amendments was submitted or approved in 2021.
GOAL 6A:
Ensure that all development in the City is consistent with and implements the General Plan.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 9            
513 of 662

--- page 514 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
POLICY LU 6A.1
Specific Plan, Zoning, Permit and Subdivision Review. The City shall not approve any specific plan, rezoning, permit, subdivision, 
variance, or other land use permit which is not consistent with and does not implement the General Plan. Specific Plan and zoning 
ordinances were amended so as to conform to the General Plan by the end of 1992.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process and 
planning work. No Specific Plans were adopted in 2021.
POLICY LU 6A2
Building Height and Building Intensity Maps/Plans. Maintain Building Height and Building Intensity maps/plans which delineate 
development intensity in the form of building heights and FARs in a manner which implements the height, intensity, density and 
design standards in the General Plan, consistent with the Building Heights and Intensities maps/plans as amended by initiative in 
November 1991 and November 2004., General Plan standards for building heights and intensities are specifically set forth in the 
Building Height Plan and the Building Intensity Plan that were formerly included in the General Plan, and designated respectively as 
figure LU-4 in the table of contents (marked as figure LU-5), and figure LU-5 in the table of contents (marked as figure LU-6).
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
GOAL 7:
Permit the annexation to the City of adjacent unincorporated lands, when in the City's interest.
There was no annexation in 2021.
POLICY LU 7.1
Annexation. Annex urbanized areas of the unincorporated land adjacent to the City limits in those areas where landowners petition 
the City to be annexed subject to the following conditions: 1) The annexation is comprehensive, rather than piecemeal; and 2) 
Landowners will pay the full cost of City services, will assume a proportionate share of existing City debts and will contribute, either in 
cash or in kind, to the existing capital improvements of the City which will benefit the area to be annexed.
There was no annexation in 2021.
POLICY LU 7.2
New Development within the Sphere of Influence. Seek to require new developments and related infrastructure to be consistent with 
and to be designed to the City's General Plan goals and policies, zoning code requirements, development standards and the City's 
municipal code
No applicable projects in 2021.
GOAL 8a:
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions each year consistent with the Climate Action Plan.
Sustainability staff annually updates Council on progress of CAP initiatives, 
see  https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3962/CAP-Progress-Updates
GOAL 8b: 
Recognize potential climate change consequences such as increased sea level rise, changing weather events, less snow melt in the 
Sierras - therefore less drinking water availability, hotter temperatures, changing air quality and more heat related health issues.
Ongoing work among multiple city departments; and collaboration with 
regional agencies and utilities to address sea level rise, drought, and air 
quality.
POLICY LU 8.1
Carbon Footprint. The City shall prepare an updated greenhouse gas emissions inventory consistent with the Climate Action Plan.
Sustainability staff annually updates Council on progress of CAP initiatives, 
see link to report in Policy 8a.
POLICY LU 8.3
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission Reductions. Monitor and report progress toward the City’s GHG emissions reduction target on an 
annual basis and regularly review emission reduction measures and new opportunities consistent with guidance of the City’s Climate 
Action Plan.
Sustainability staff annually updates Council on progress of CAP initiatives, 
see link to report in Policy 8a.
GOAL 8c:
Ensure that all improvements to existing structures are developed or remodeled in a sustainable manner.
Consistent with the 2020 CAP, the city's reach codes apply to NEW 
construction. Implementation is ongoing through the Development Review 
process.
GOAL 8d:
Increase new annual installations of solar or renewable energy systems consistent with the Climate Action Plan.
Sustainability staff annually updates Council on progress of CAP initiatives, 
see link to report in Policy 8a.
POLICY LU 8.2
Effects of Climate Change. Incorporate consideration of the effects of climate change in development of General Plan updates, 
disaster planning, City projects, infrastructure planning, future policies and long-term strategies. Explore voluntary adjustments of 
base flood elevation. 
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review processing of city 
projects and in planning work such as General Plan update and 
infrastructure planning.
POLICY LU 8.4
Sustainable Development. Incorporate Sustainability into existing single family and multifamily housing. Require sustainable features 
and techniques to address energy and water efficiency in remodels of existing structures.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process of. City's 
reach codes apply to NEW construction only; currently, there are no policies 
addressing remodels.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 10            
514 of 662

--- page 515 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
POLICY LU 8.5
Solar Energy. Promote or join local partnerships and opportunities that offer renewable energy options to the residents and/or help 
inform them of rebates and options while ensuring that the permit process is quick and inexpensive.
Ongoing work by Sustainability staff in continuing to  educate/inform users 
of renewable energy options and available rebates.
POLICY LU 8.6
Waste Reduction. Reduce waste sent to landfills by San Mateo’s residents, businesses and visitors by a minimum of 40% from 2017 
levels by 2030 by mandating recycling, setting aggressive waste reduction goals for all development, implementing composting 
programs, and increasing costs for residential and commercial waste collection then using increased waste collection revenue to 
provide waste reduction incentives. Supportive actions for waste reduction are detailed in the Climate Action Plan.
Public Works Department continues to adhere to latest codes and 
requirements regarding waste reduction, consistent with 2020 Climate 
Action Plan.
POLICY LU 8.7
Water Reduction Strategies. Establish a partnership with California Water Service (CWS), Bay Area Water Supply Conservation Agency 
and other mid peninsula cities to promote the water reduction strategies that are offered and to create an outreach program that 
will help inform residence and businesses of increase costs and the need for conservation efforts.
Ongoing collaboration with other agencies, as applicable, to educate 
residents and businesses of increase costs and the need for conservation 
efforts.
POLICY LU 8.8
Water Rates. Actively support a strategy to decouple water utility revenues from water consumption and any other regulatory 
changes that will offer incentives to CWS to actively pursue conservation while working with CWS to implement progressive water 
rates.
Where appropriate, city supports CWS in pursuing water conservation and 
implementation of progressive water rates.
POLICY LU 8.9
Air Quality Construction Impacts. The City shall mitigate air quality impacts generated during construction activities by requiring the 
following measures: 1) Use of appropriate dust control measures, based on project size and latest Bay Area Air Quality Management 
District (BAAQMD) guidance, shall be applied to all construction activities within San Mateo. 2) Applicants seeking demolition permits 
shall demonstrate compliance with applicable BAAQMD requirements involving lead paint and asbestos containing materials (ACM’s) 
designed to mitigate exposure to lead paint and asbestos. 3) Utilization of construction emission control measures recommended by 
BAAQMD as appropriate for the specifics of the project (e.g., length of time of construction and distance from sensitive receptors). 
This may include the utilization of low emission construction equipment, restrictions on the length of time of use of certain heavy-
duty construction equipment, and utilization of methods to reduce emissions from construction equipment (alternative fuels, 
particulate matter traps and diesel particulate filters).
1, 2, & 3) Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 8.10
Odors. When proposed development generating odors is proposed near residences or sensitive receptors, either adequate buffer 
distances shall be provided (based on recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control Board and 
BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels. Potential 
mitigation associated with this policy requirement will be coordinated with any required permit conditions from BAAQMD. When 
new residential or other sensitive receptors are proposed near existing sources of odors, either adequate buffer distances shall be 
provided (based on recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control Board and BAAQMD), or filters or 
other equipment/solutions shall be provided to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
POLICY LU 8.11
Toxic Air Contaminants. The City shall require that when new development that would be a source of toxic air contaminants (TAC’s) is 
proposed near residences or sensitive receptors, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based on recommendations and 
requirements of the California Air Resources Control Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided 
to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels.
When new residential or other sensitive receptors are proposed near existing sources of TAC’s, either adequate buffer distances shall 
be provided (based on recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control Board and BAAQMD), or filters or 
other equipment/solutions shall be provided to the source to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels.
Ongoing implementation as part of Development Review process.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 11            
515 of 662

--- page 516 ---
GOAL, POLICY 
OR ACTION NO.
GOAL, POLICY OR ACTION TEXT
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
POLICY LU 8.12
Engaging the Public. Create a multi-phased information campaign to educate residents and businesses on the Climate Action Plan and 
to spark behavioral changes in individual energy and water consumption, transportation mode choices, and recycling.
Ongoing work by Sustainability staff in continuing to educate residents and 
businesses.
City of San Mateo General Plan Progress Report (2021)
Exhibit A - Land Use Implementation Summary
Page 12            
516 of 662

--- page 517 ---
Jurisidiction Name
Reporting Calendar Year
First Name
Last Name
Title
Email
Phone
Street Address
City
Zipcode
v 12_30_21
Optional: Click here to import last year's data. This is best used 
when the workbook is new and empty. You will be prompted to pick 
an old workbook to import from.  Project and program data will be 
copied exactly how it was entered in last year's form and must be 
updated. If a project is no longer has any reportable activity, you 
may delete the project by selecting a cell in the row and typing ctrl 
+ d.
330 W 20th Ave
San Mateo
94403
Please Start Here
General Information 
2021
San Mateo
Contact Information
Manira
Sandhir
Planning Manager
msandhir@cityofsanmateo.org
6505227203
Mailing Address
Annual Progress Report  
January 2020
517 of 662

--- page 518 ---
Optional: This runs a macro which checks to ensure all required fields are filled out. The macro will create two files saved in the 
same directory this APR file is saved in. One file will be a copy of the APR with highlighted cells which require information. The 
other file will be list of the problematic  cells, along with a description of the nature of the error.
Optional: Save before running. This copies data on Table A2, and creates another workbook with the table split 
across 4 tabs, each of which can fit onto a single page for easier printing. Running this macro will remove the 
comments on the column headers, which contain the instructions. Do not save the APR file after running in order 
to preserve comments once it is reopened.
Optional: This macro identifies dates entered that occurred outside of the reporting year. RHNA credit is only 
given for building permits issued during the reporting year.
Link to the online system: https://apr.hcd.ca.gov/APR/login.do
Submittal Instructions
Please save your file as Jurisdictionname2021 (no spaces). Example: the city of 
San Luis Obispo would save their file as SanLuisObispo2021
Housing Element Annual Progress Reports (APRs) forms and tables must be 
submitted to HCD and the Governor's Office of Planning and Research (OPR) on or 
before April 1 of each year for the prior calendar year; submit separate reports 
directly to both HCD and OPR pursuant to Government Code section 65400.  There 
are two options for submitting APRs: 
1. Online Annual Progress Reporting System -  Please see the link to the online
system to the left. This allows you to upload the completed APR form into directly 
into HCD’s database limiting the risk of errors. If you would like to use the online 
system, email APR@hcd.ca.gov and HCD will send you the login information for 
your jurisdiction. Please note: Using the online system only provides the 
information to HCD.  The APR must still be submitted to OPR. Their email address 
is opr.apr@opr.ca.gov.
2. Email - If you prefer to submit via email, you can complete the excel Annual 
Progress Report forms and submit to HCD at APR@hcd.ca.gov and to OPR at 
opr.apr@opr.ca.gov.  Please send the Excel workbook, not a scanned or PDF copy 
of the tables.
518 of 662

--- page 519 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Reporting Year
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Planning Period
5th Cycle
01/31/2015 - 01/31/2023
Date 
Application 
Submitted
Total 
Approved 
Units by 
Project
Total 
Disapproved 
Units by 
Project
Streamlining
Application 
Status
Notes
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
11
12
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
Date 
Application 
Submitted+
(see 
instructions)
Very Low-
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low-
Income Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Low-
Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low-Income 
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate-
Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income   
Non Deed 
Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Total PROPOSED 
Units by Project
Total 
APPROVED 
Units by project
Total 
DISAPPROVED 
Units by Project
Was APPLICATION 
SUBMITTED 
Pursuant to GC 
65913.4(b)?  
(SB 35 
Streamlining)     
Was a Density 
Bonus requested 
for this housing 
development?
Was a Density 
Bonus approved 
for this housing 
development?
Please indicate 
the status of the 
application.
Notes+
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
4
0
7
1
0
2
109
123
123
0
33296070
801 S GRANT ST
801 S. Grant Street, SFDDR
PA-2020-066
ADU
R
7/15/2021
1
1
1
No
No
No
Approved
Add a new unit (ADU). Total of 1 net 
new unit.
33127080
23 S IDAHO ST
23 S. Idaho St, SPAR + 
Tentative Parcel Map
PA-2019-053
2 to 4
R
10/15/2021
2
2
2
No
No
No
Approved
Demo existing SFD, construct three 
detached units. Total of 2 net new 
units.
39030340
1919 O'FARRELL ST
1919 O’Farrell St. Apartments 
SPAR + SDPA
PA-2020-037
5+
R
10/15/2021
4
45
49
49
No
Yes
Yes
Approved
Demo existing office building to 
construct new multifamily building
33152180
121 S FREMONT ST
121 S. Fremont St., Duplex 
SPAR
PA-2020-057
2 to 4
R
10/8/2021
1
1
1
No
No
No
Approved
Convert existing SFD to duplex for a 
total of 1 net new unit.
35356190
1068 FIESTA DR
1068 Fiesta Dr., SFDDR
PA-2021-026
JADU
R
10/15/2021
1
1
1
No
No
No
Approved
Add a new unit (JADU). Total of 1 net 
new unit.
41373090
1442 CEDARWOOD 
DR
1442 Cedarwood Dr., SFDDR
PA-2021-042
ADU
R
11/5/2021
1
1
1
No
No
No
Approved
Add a new unit (ADU). Total of 1 net 
new unit.
040031210, 040031220, 
040031230, 040031240
No Site Address
Bay Meadows MU2 & MU3 
SPAR Modification
PA-2020-053
5+
R
6/11/2021
7
60
67
67
No
No
No
Approved
PA modification to reduce proposed 
residential units to 67 (previously 164 
proposed in PA-2007-054)
32331040
61 N CLAREMONT ST
61 N. Claremont St., Duplex 
SPAR
PA-2019-058
2 to 4
R
4/6/2021
1
1
1
No
No
No
Approved
Convert existing SFD to duplex for a 
total of 1 net new unit.
Table A
Housing Development Applications Submitted
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation formulas
5
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
Proposed Units - Affordability by Household Incomes 
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Density Bonus Applications
10
&nbsp;
519 of&nbsp;662

--- page 520 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Reporting Year
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation formulas
Planning Period
5th Cycle
01/31/2015 - 01/31/2023
Table A2
Annual Building Activity Report Summary - New Construction, Entitled, Permits and Completed Units
Streamlining
Infill
Housing without 
Financial Assistance or 
Deed Restrictions
Term of 
Affordability or 
Deed Restriction
Notes
2
3
5
6
8
9
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income   
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Entitlement
Date Approved
# of Units issued 
Entitlements
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income  
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Building Permits 
Date Issued
# of Units Issued 
Building Permits 
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income 
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Certificates of 
Occupancy or other 
forms of readiness     
(see instructions)    
Date Issued
# of  Units 
issued 
Certificates of 
Occupancy or 
other forms of 
readiness
How many of 
the units were 
Extremely Low 
Income?+
Was Project    
APPROVED using 
GC 65913.4(b)?  
(SB 35 
Streamlining)      
Y/N
Infill Units?
Y/N+
Assistance Programs 
for Each Development
(may select multiple - 
see instructions)
Deed Restriction 
Type
(may select 
multiple - see 
instructions)
For units affordable without 
financial assistance or deed 
restrictions, explain how the 
locality determined the units 
were affordable
(see instructions)
Term of Affordability or 
Deed Restriction (years) 
(if affordable in perpetuity 
enter 1000)+ 
Number of 
Demolished/Des
troyed Units
Demolished or 
Destroyed Units
Demolished/De
stroyed Units   
Owner or 
Renter
Total Density Bonus Applied 
to the Project (Percentage 
Increase in Total Allowable 
Units or Total Maximum 
Allowable Residential Gross 
Floor Area)
Number of Other 
Incentives, 
Concessions, Waivers, 
or Other Modifications 
Given to the Project 
(Excluding Parking 
Waivers or Parking 
Reductions)
List the incentives, 
concessions, 
waivers, and 
modifications 
(Excluding Parking 
Waivers or Parking 
Modifications)
Did the project receive a 
reduction or waiver of 
parking standards? (Y/N)
Notes+
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
4
0
7
1
0
2
109
123
0
0
19
19
2
37
239
316
6
0
8
18
0
25
205
262
0
0
10
0
35320450 2089 PACIFIC BLVD Change of Use conver
BD-2019-271849
5+
O
0
0
8
8/25/2021
8
N
Y
INC
1000
8
Demolished
R
Converted 8 2 BR units 
35200120
1650 S DELAWARE 
ST Azara Apartment
BD-2019-271280
5+
O
0
0
6
67
9/8/2021
73
N
INC
1000
33363280
933 ANNA ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276319
ADU
R
0
0
1
2/2/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
35255070
16 JODY CT ADU - Attached
BD-2019-272797
ADU
R
0
0
1
2/4/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
32164080
421 VILLA TER ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274826
ADU
R
0
0
1
2/10/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
35111020 748 HEMLOCK AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275567
ADU
R
0
0
1
2/11/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
35415180
2649 HOLLAND ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276347
ADU
R
0
0
1
2/17/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
32280040 210 GRAMERCY DR JADU - Attached
BD-2020-276834
ADU
R
0
1
1/21/2021
1
1
2/24/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33241560
1725 DOLAN AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275770
ADU
R
0
0
1
2/26/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
40031030
2901 E Kyne St Res 4 Condo's
BD-2018-267829
5+
R
0
0
8
74
2/26/2021
82
N
Y
INC
1000
32132140
406 STATE ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274822
ADU
R
0
0
1
3/9/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
33331120 2835 HACIENDA ST ADU - Detached
BD-2017-262261
ADU
R
0
0
1
3/18/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
40136140
3615 ORINDA DR ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275665
ADU
R
0
0
1
3/19/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
354011402338 S NORFOLK ST ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275721
ADU
R
0
0
1
3/25/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
34383310
1305 MAPLE ST ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275360
ADU
R
0
0
1
4/1/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
35274220 704 S NORFOLK ST ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275284
ADU
R
0
0
1
4/1/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
34211020
526 SONORA DR ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276686
ADU
R
0
0
1
4/8/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
34063150
544 VIRGINIA AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276107
ADU
R
0
0
1
4/23/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
40095110654 SAN BENITO ST ADU - Attached
BD-2019-269987
ADU
R
0
0
1
4/29/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33314050 902 S FREMONT ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275538
ADU
R
0
0
1
5/6/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
42201260 4217 BETTINA AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276752
ADU
R
0
1
3/5/2021
1
1
5/24/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33354120 956 S NORFOLK ST ADU - Detached
BD-2019-270080
ADU
R
0
0
1
5/27/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
34275190
54 9TH AVE 1 JADU - Attached
BD-2020-276525
ADU
R
0
0
1
6/1/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
33195030
10 S NORFOLK ST ADU
BD-2019-270236
ADU
R
0
0
1
6/1/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
33102140519 TROLLMAN AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2020-277111
ADU
R
0
1
3/15/2021
1
1
6/2/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33332030
716 HOWE ST ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276992
ADU
R
0
1
2/2/2021
1
1
6/4/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33072190
19 SERRA CT ADU - Attached
BD-2019-272044
ADU
R
0
0
1
6/8/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
34224020
228 SONORA DR ADU 
BD-2020-276097
ADU
R
0
0
1
6/9/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
323041900 N CLAREMONT ST ADU - Attached
BD-2019-273017
ADU
R
0
0
1
7/9/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33382140
1856 NASH DR ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275616
ADU
R
0
0
1
7/15/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
32172040 449 HIGHLAND AVE ADU
BD-2020-276540
ADU
R
0
0
1
7/21/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
33204170
1521 2ND AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275814
ADU
R
0
1
2/17/2021
1
1
8/10/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33173200
1507 HURON AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275327
ADU
R
0
0
1
8/11/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
32031290
408 WARREN RD ADU - Detached
BD-2020-278178
ADU
R
0
1
7/16/2021
1
1
8/11/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
32241050
70 W SANTA INEZ 
AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272988
ADU
R
0
0
1
8/16/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
39141020
417 22ND AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276448
ADU
R
0
1
1/21/2021
1
1
8/18/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33151010 06 S HUMBOLDT ST ADU - Attached
BD-2020-277878
ADU
R
0
1
2/9/2021
1
1
8/18/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
34022030 520 CORNELL AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276542
ADU
R
0
1
1/12/2021
1
1
8/24/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
40082300 50 MCLELLAN AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2018-269645
ADU
R
0
0
1
9/1/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
39395230
137 30TH AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274960
ADU
R
0
1
3/17/2021
1
1
9/7/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
41453010  CHERRYWOOD DR JADU - Attached
BD-2021-278519
ADU
R
0
1
12/20/2021
1
0
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
320620105 HURLINGHAM AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2017-265506
ADU
R
0
0
1
9/15/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
4010325002 POINSETTIA AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2020-278129
ADU
R
0
1
2/16/2021
1
1
9/21/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
422230104007 BAYVIEW AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2019-274523
ADU
R
0
0
1
10/11/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
42234090 113 BURBANK AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2021-278405
ADU
R
0
1
5/14/2021
1
1
10/14/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
42140030
205 W 39TH AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2020-277413
ADU
R
0
1
6/16/2021
1
1
10/27/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33034160
600 N IDAHO ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276429
ADU
R
0
0
1
10/28/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
35332300
476 FIESTA DR ADU - Detached
BD-2019-274351
ADU
R
0
0
1
11/3/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
33363110TTAGE GROVE AVE JADU - Attached
BD-2021-280829
ADU
R
0
1
9/1/2021
1
1
11/3/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
32211060
235 RAMONA ST ADU - Attached
BD-2021-278527
ADU
R
0
1
8/12/2021
1
1
11/4/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33111040
16 IRIS CT ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276012
ADU
R
0
1
4/15/2021
1
1
11/9/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
35292140
1737 HAMLET ST ADU - Attached
BD-2019-270933
ADU
R
0
0
1
11/9/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
34373240
1217 OAK ST ADU
BD-2020-277919
ADU
R
0
1
8/19/2021
1
1
12/8/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
35364190
1777 HAMLET ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275966
ADU
R
0
1
2/22/2021
1
1
12/10/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
34276070
119 10TH AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276124
ADU
R
0
0
1
12/23/2021
1
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
33145070
19 N GRANT ST A Convert SFD to Duple
BD-2018-268463
SFA
O
0
0
1
1/7/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33143030 147 N FREMONT ST Convert SFD to Duple
BD-2018-267236
SFA
O
0
0
1
2/24/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
39060870
21 LODATO AVE Town homes
BD-2018-265641
SFA
O
0
0
1
2/26/2021
1
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
3914231007 S DELAWARE ST Convert SFD to Duple
BD-2019-273612
SFA
O
0
0
1
3/10/2021
1
N
Y
1
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New Townhomes; Sla
BD-2020-277811
SFA
O
0
6
2/4/2021
6
6
8/25/2021
6
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New townhomes; Slat
BD-2020-277812
SFA
O
0
6
2/25/2021
6
6
10/29/2021
6
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New Townhomes; Sla
BD-2021-278828
SFA
O
0
6
3/26/2021
6
6
12/7/2021
6
N
32141260
660 N EL CAMINO 
REAL Town homes
BD-2018-269601
SFA
O
0
0
3
12/17/2021
3
N
32092110180 W POPLAR AVE New SFD
BD-2020-276213
SFD
O
0
0
1
4/16/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2020-277805
SFD
O
0
0
1
6/1/2021
1
N
Y
39142310
300 24TH AVE New SFD
BD-2019-272668
SFD
O
0
0
1
7/20/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD, Water Park
BD-2020-277808
SFD
O
0
0
1
8/5/2021
1
N
Y
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD, Water Park
BD-2020-277806
SFD
O
0
0
1
8/9/2021
1
N
Y
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD, Water Park
BD-2020-277807
SFD
O
0
0
1
8/23/2021
1
N
Y
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2020-278373
SFD
O
0
1
3/4/2021
1
1
9/2/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2020-278374
SFD
O
0
1
3/4/2021
1
1
9/16/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2020-278375
SFD
O
0
1
3/4/2021
1
1
9/16/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278424
SFD
O
0
1
3/4/2021
1
1
9/16/2021
1
N
31083040 830 BROMFIELD RD Demo SFD
BD-2021-279266
SFD
O
0
1
7/19/2021
1
1
10/7/2021
1
N
1
Demolished 
O
Demo, new constructio
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278433
SFD
O
0
1
3/17/2021
1
1
10/19/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278431
SFD
O
0
1
3/17/2021
1
1
10/19/2021
1
N
34085090
236 W 3RD AVE New SFD
BD-2018-269524
SFD
O
0
1
4/13/2021
1
1
10/28/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278425
SFD
O
0
1
3/17/2021
1
1
11/15/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278434
SFD
O
0
1
3/17/2021
1
1
11/17/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278435
SFD
O
0
1
3/17/2021
1
1
11/17/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278459
SFD
O
0
1
4/27/2021
1
1
11/23/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278460
SFD
O
0
1
4/27/2021
1
1
12/9/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278461
SFD
O
0
1
4/27/2021
1
1
12/16/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278462
SFD
O
0
1
4/27/2021
1
1
12/17/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278464
SFD
O
0
1
4/27/2021
1
1
12/20/2021
1
N
35401450  WATERS PARK DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278463
SFD
O
0
1
4/27/2021
1
1
12/21/2021
1
N
32305120
103 N ELDORADO 
ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276676
ADU
R
0
1
12/27/2021
1
0
N
Y
INC
1000
25
32100200
133 W POPLAR 
AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2021-279198
ADU
R
0
1
11/29/2021
1
0
N
Y
2
42113210
267 36TH AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2021-281418
ADU
R
0
1
11/29/2021
1
0
N
Y
1
Demolished
O
3
35354290
1023 ROSSI WAY ADU - Attached
BD-2021-279348
ADU
R
0
1
11/16/2021
1
0
N
Y
42181230
4131 KINGRIDGE 
DR ADU - Detached
BD-2020-277571
ADU
R
0
1
10/27/2021
1
0
N
Y
34334160
1326 ASHWOOD 
CT ADU - Detached
BD-2021-280094
ADU
R
0
1
10/26/2021
1
0
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
33273150
717 FALLON AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2021-279344
ADU
R
0
1
10/25/2021
1
0
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
40103010 3410 BRANSON DR ADU - Detached
BD-2021-280880
ADU
R
0
1
10/25/2021
1
0
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
32053020
353 W POPLAR 
AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2021-279397
ADU
R
0
1
10/6/2021
1
0
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
33023150
814 N IDAHO ST ADU - Detached
BD-2021-279203
ADU
R
0
1
10/6/2021
1
0
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
39313190
428 SYLVAN AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2021-280506
ADU
R
0
1
10/5/2021
1
0
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
39283190 532 VENTURA AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2021-279150
ADU
R
0
1
10/4/2021
1
0
N
Y
ADU Affordability Calculations
32023040
215 W POPLAR 
AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2021-279675
ADU
R
0
1
9/30/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
42094220
635 W 39TH AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2020-277708
ADU
R
0
1
9/24/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
40215010 3912 BRANSON DR ADU - Detached
BD-2021-280485
ADU
R
0
1
9/23/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
35151010
1301 S NORFOLK 
ST ADU - Attached
BD-2021-279022
ADU
R
0
1
9/17/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
39210320 843 OVERLOOK CT ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276932
ADU
R
0
1
8/31/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
39172030
231 W 25TH AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2021-278962
ADU
R
0
1
8/16/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
41641010 13 LAKEWOOD CIR ADU - Detached
BD-2019-273737
ADU
R
0
1
8/2/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
42093010
3901 MARSHALL 
AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2021-279328
ADU
R
0
1
7/30/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
34034170
217 IRVING ST ADU - Detached
BD-2021-278979
ADU
R
0
1
7/29/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
42211250
4209 ALAMEDA DE 
LAS PULGAS ADU - Attached
BD-2021-278829
ADU
R
0
1
7/28/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
39102250
2129 ENSENADA 
WAY ADU - Attached
BD-2021-279110
ADU
R
0
1
6/29/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33141100
118 N GRANT ST ADU - Detached
BD-2021-279360
ADU
R
0
1
6/23/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
32135090
470 STUDIO CIR 1 ADU - Attached
BD-2020-277764
ADU
R
0
1
6/21/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
39051600
2038 ISABELLE 
AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2021-279563
ADU
R
0
1
6/15/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
31042250
613 BARROILHET 
AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2021-279074
ADU
R
0
1
6/3/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
34482140
801 MURPHY DR ADU - Detached
BD-2020-278345
ADU
R
0
1
6/3/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33342120
865 FALLON AVE ADU Detached
BD-2020-277207
ADU
R
0
1
6/3/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
39210260 846 OVERLOOK CT ADU - Attached
BD-2021-278387
ADU
R
0
1
6/1/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33023240
856 N IDAHO ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275510
ADU
R
0
1
5/4/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
35282140
1634 BORDEN ST ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275962
ADU
R
0
1
5/3/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
40025160
2309 KENT ST ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276850
ADU
R
0
1
2/16/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
40103180
305 SANTA CLARA 
WAY ADU - Detached
BD-2019-274524
ADU
R
0
1
4/13/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
35255010
646 EDNA WAY ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276298
ADU
R
0
1
4/8/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
32033040
631 COSTA RICA 
AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276121
ADU
R
0
1
4/6/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
40228170 4109 BRANSON DR ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275126
ADU
R
0
1
2/11/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
39151050
121 22ND AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2020-277046
ADU
R
0
1
3/24/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
32114160
229 STATE ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-277259
ADU
R
0
1
3/19/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
42262010
4321 EDISON ST ADU - Attached
BD-2019-271675
ADU
R
0
1
3/17/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
34045110
735 NEVADA AVE ADU - Attached
BD-2020-278160
ADU
R
0
1
3/12/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
42171370
653 NEWLANDS 
AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2020-278018
ADU
R
0
1
3/8/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
35051020
1070 S 
CLAREMONT ST ADU - Attached
BD-2019-273564
ADU
R
0
1
3/4/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
35291150
1756 WASHINGTON 
ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-277416
ADU
R
0
1
2/23/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
34411230
1519 LOCUST ST ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276816
ADU
R
0
1
2/22/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33274020
1726 SHOREVIEW 
AVE ADU - Detached
BD-2020-277284
ADU
R
0
1
2/5/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
31051150
528 CLARK DR JADU -Attached
BD-2020-277453
ADU
R
0
1
9/3/2021
1
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
321621010 312 GRAND BLVD
ADU, JADU - 
Attached
BD-2019-272505
ADU
R
0
1
1
9/20/2021
2
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
32322130 303 BALDWIN AVE
Mixed-Use 
Prometheus
BD-2019-270898
5+
R
0
58
6/11/2021
58
0
N
INC
1000
33163160
200 S FREMONT 
ST Fremont Terrace
BD-2018-269636
5+
R
0
2
13
6/30/2021
15
0
N
INC
1000
32083030
144 SYCAMORE 
AVE New SFD
BD-2017-263632
SFD
O
0
1
2/9/2021
1
0
N
31083040
830 BROMFIELD 
RD New SFD
BD-2021-279249
SFD
O
0
1
7/19/2021
1
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278428
SFD
O
0
1
3/17/2021
1
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278465
SFD
O
0
1
9/15/2021
1
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278466
SFD
O
0
1
9/15/2021
1
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278467
SFD
O
0
1
9/15/2021
1
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-278468
SFD
O
0
1
9/15/2021
1
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-280799
SFD
O
0
1
9/15/2021
1
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR New SFD; Waters Pa
BD-2021-280801
SFD
O
0
1
9/15/2021
1
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Cobalt, Condos
BD-2020-277809
5+
O
0
1
8
2/4/2021
9
0
N
INC
1000
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Cobalt
BD-2021-280930
5+
O
0
2
7
10/14/2021
9
0
N
INC
1000
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Cobalt
BD-2020-277810
5+
O
0
1
8
2/25/2021
9
0
N
INC
1000
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Cobalt
BD-2021-279226
5+
O
0
1
8
5/25/2021
9
0
N
INC
1000
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Cobalt
BD-2021-282209
5+
O
0
2
7
11/19/2021
9
0
N
INC
1000
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Cobalt
BD-2021-278826
5+
O
0
1
8
3/26/2021
9
0
N
INC
1000
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Indigo
BD-2020-277813
5+
O
0
1
11
2/4/2021
12
0
N
INC
1000
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Indigo
BD-2021-279228
5+
O
0
2
10
6/21/2021
12
0
N
INC
1000
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Indigo
BD-2020-277814
5+
O
0
5
7
2/25/2021
12
0
N
INC
1000
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Indigo
BD-2021-278827
5+
O
0
2
10
3/26/2021
12
0
N
INC
1000
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Slate Townhomes
BD-2021-280027
SFA
O
0
6
6/21/2021
6
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Slate Townhomes
BD-2021-280932
SFA
O
0
6
8/4/2021
6
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Slate Townhomes
BD-2021-281188
SFA
O
0
6
9/15/2021
6
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Slate Townhomes
BD-2021-282211
SFA
O
0
6
11/19/2021
6
0
N
35401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR Slate Townhomes
BD-2021-282516
SFA
O
0
1
4
12/20/2021
5
0
N
INC
1000
Density Bonus
1
Unit Types
Affordability by Household Incomes - Completed Entitlement
Affordability by Household Incomes - Building Permits
Affordability by Household Incomes - Certificates of Occupancy
4
7
10
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Housing with Financial Assistance 
and/or Deed Restrictions
Demolished/Destroyed Units
Project Identifier
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
&nbsp;
520 of&nbsp;662

--- page 521 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Reporting Year
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation formulas
Planning Period
5th Cycle
01/31/2015 - 01/31/2023
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
33296070
801 S GRANT ST 801 S. Grant Street, 
SFDDR
PA-2020-066
ADU
R
1
7/29/2021
1
0
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
33127080
23 S IDAHO ST
23 S. Idaho St, 
SPAR + Tentative 
Parcel Map
PA-2019-053
2 to 4
R
2
11/10/2021
2
0
0
N
39030340
1919 O'FARRELL 
ST
1919 O’Farrell St. 
Apartments SPAR + 
SDPA
PA-2020-037
5+
R
4
45
10/26/2021
49
0
0
N
INC
1000
33152180
121 S FREMONT 
ST
121 S. Fremont St., 
Duplex SPAR
PA-2020-057
2 to 4
R
1
10/19/2021
1
0
0
N
35356190
1068 FIESTA DR
1068 Fiesta Dr., 
SFDDR
PA-2021-026
ADU
R
1
10/26/2021
1
0
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
41373090 1442 CEDARWOOD 
DR
1442 Cedarwood Dr., 
SFDDR
PA-2021-042
ADU
R
1
11/18/2021
1
0
0
N
ADU Affordability Calculations
040031210, 
040031220, 
040031230, 
040031240
No Site Address
Bay Meadows MU2 
& MU3 SPAR 
Modification
PA-2020-053
5+
R
7
60
6/22/2021
67
0
0
N
INC
1000
32331040
61 N CLAREMONT 
ST
61 N. Claremont St., 
Duplex SPAR
PA-2019-058
2 to 4
R
1
5/4/2021
1
0
0
N
&nbsp;
521 of&nbsp;662

--- page 522 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Reporting Year
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Planning Period
5th Cycle
01/31/2015 - 01/31/2023
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
1
3
4
RHNA Allocation 
by Income Level
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
Total Units to 
Date (all years)
Total Remaining 
RHNA by Income 
Level
Deed Restricted
                        -                          12                        37                          7                        67                          3 
                        -                           -                           -   
Non-Deed Restricted
                        -                           -                           -                           -                           -                           -                           -                           -                           -   
Deed Restricted
                       23                          3 
                        -                           -                          25                          1                        19 
                        -                           -   
Non-Deed Restricted
                        -                           -                           -                           -                           -                           -                          22 
                        -                           -   
Deed Restricted
                        -                           -                           -                           -                           -                           -                            2 
                        -                           -   
Non-Deed Restricted
                       88                          2                          4 
                        -                           -                           -                          35 
                        -                           -   
Above Moderate
                      1,242                      480                      172                      424                        83                      294                        92                      239 
                        -                           -                      1,784 
                                -   
                      3,100 
                     591                      189                      465                        90                      386                        96                      317 
                        -                           -                      2,134                    1,508 
Note: units serving extremely low-income households are included in the very low-income permitted units totals and must be reported as very low-income units.
Please note: The APR form can only display data for one planning period. To view progress for a different planning period, you may login to HCD's online APR system, or contact HCD staff at apr@hcd.ca.gov.
                              399 
                     126 
This table is auto-populated once you enter your jurisdiction name and current year data. Past 
year information comes from previous APRs.
                     131 
Moderate
                         859 
                         469 
                         530 
Please contact HCD if your data is different than the material supplied here
                       93 
2
Table B
Regional Housing Needs Allocation Progress
Permitted Units Issued by Affordability
                              733 
                              376 
Please note: For the last year of the 5th cycle, Table B will only include units that were permitted during the portion of the year that was in the 5th cycle. For the first year of the 6th cycle, Table B will include units that were 
permitted since the start of the planning period.
Total RHNA
Total Units
Income Level
Very Low
Low
&nbsp;
522 of&nbsp;662

--- page 523 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Reporting Year
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Planning Period
5th Cycle
01/31/2015 - 01/31/2023
Date of Rezone
Rezone Type
2
4
5
6
7
9
10
11
APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Date of Rezone
Very Low-Income
Low-Income
Moderate-Income
Above Moderate-
Income
Rezone Type
Parcel Size
(Acres)
General Plan 
Designation
Zoning
Minimum    
Density Allowed 
Maximum    
Density Allowed
Realistic Capacity
Vacant/Nonvacant
Description of Existing 
Uses
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation formulas
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
8
3
Project Identifier
RHNA Shortfall by Household Income Category
Sites Description
1
Sites Identified or Rezoned to Accommodate Shortfall Housing Need and No Net-Loss Law
Table C
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
&nbsp;
523 of&nbsp;662

--- page 524 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Reporting Year
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
1
2
3
4
Name of Program
Objective
Timeframe in H.E
Status of Program Implementation
H 1.1 Residential 
Protection
Consider policy during the Special Use 
Permit process with respect to the 
intrusion of incompatible uses and  
overconcentration of non-residential 
uses, during the Site Plan and 
Architectural Review process in 
regards to adequate buffers,  and 
during design review of developments 
during design review process.
Ongoing
The City has adopted zoning code amendments which limit the over 
concentration of non-residential uses in residential zoning districts while at the 
same time allowing for provision of Special Use Permit request to provide for 
case by case review of facilities which meet identified community needs. Case 
by case evaluation of the impact of non-residential land uses has occurred with 
all Special Use Permits. Adequate buffers between residential and non 
residential uses are reviewed during the initial plan check.  Zoning Code 
provisions require quantitative setbacks and buffers to ensure that both the 
residential and non residential uses are protected.
H 1.2 Single Family 
Preservation
Consider potential impacts on intact 
single family neighborhoods during the 
review of land use changes and special 
use permits for proposed development 
other than single family dwellings and 
consider buffering prvosions during 
design review process.
Ongoing
Review of Special Use Permits for development near single-family 
neighborhoods are reviewed for land use compatibility including findings that 
the granting of such permit would not adversely affect the general health, safety 
or welfare of the community. Multi-family Dwelling Design Guidelines and 
Zoning Code requirements include provisions to ensure new multifamily 
developments are designed to transition to nearby single-family residences 
through tiered building heights and massing.  In multifamily zoned properties 
that abut single family zones, there are increased setbacks and buffers to 
ensure that the impact to single family neighborhoods are reduced. Additional 
buffering above and beyond the quantitative requirements outlined in the 
Zoning Code is considered during the design review process.  
H 1.3 Housing 
Rehabilitation
125 Minor Home Repairs for Low 
Income  Households
16 projects per year
2015: Rehabs = 38 2016: Rehabs = 53 2017: Rehabs = 38 2018: Rehabs = 30 
2019: Rehabs= 36 2020: Rehabs =  23 2021: Rehabs =  28 Running Total: Rehabs 
= 246
H 1.4 Code Enforcement
Continue code enforcement efforts and 
provide staff as needed to improve 
residential areas.  Continue use of 
administrative citations and fees, civil 
penalties, and civil and criminal 
litigation to bring about compliance. 
Ongoing
The City continues its enforcement efforts and provides staff to improve 
residential areas through abatement, administrative citations and fees, civil 
penalties, and civil litigation to bring about compliance. The City also uses court 
ordered inspection and abatement warrants to enter, inspect, and clean up 
hoarders and residential junkyards that present immediate health and safety 
violations. 
H 1.5 Building Bulk
Through plan check review of single-
family dwellings and duplex buildings, 
ensure compliance with both the single 
family and duplex regulations and 
design guidelines that control the bulk 
of and height of buildings.  
Ongoing
Plan checking of single-family dwellings is ongoing.  Second story additions to 
single family dwellings and new single-family dwellings, and duplexes require 
design review.  The adopted Single Family Design guidelines help to control the 
bulk and height of second story additions and new single family dwellings.  
These guidelines help to protect against the over-sized additions and new 
construction in R-2 zoning districts.
H 1.6 Variances and Lot 
Divisions
Consider existing neighborhood 
character during variance and 
subdivision review.
Ongoing
Existing neighborhood character continues to be considered in the review of all 
variance and lot spit applications. Property and building characteristics of 
properties in the vicinity of any variance or lot split application become the 
basis of findings and recommendations for these types of applications.
H 1.7 Retention of 
Existing Lower Income 
Units
1) Monitor Lesly Park Towers to ensure 
refinance to ensure affordability upon 
expiration of existing covenants. 2) 
Coordinate extension of existing City 
Loan terms and affordability 
requirements  for Humboldt House. 3) 
Support regional and local efforts to 
address renter displacement.  Examine 
issues for City Council review and 
establish strategies as warranted.
1) 2015 2) 2020 3) 2016
1) Lesley Towers was able to secure a loan from HUD to complete full upgrades 
of the building and to preserve the building as senior affordable housing for an 
additional 40 years. 2) Affordability extension for Humboldt House for 2021-2041 
approved . 3) The City continues communications with the County Housing 
Authority and Department of Housing for ongoing opportunities. During Spring 
2016 the City's Housing Task Force finalized its report to Council. The task force 
was not able to agree on recommending any specific renter displacement 
policies to Council. During November 2016, City voters rejection Measure Q - a 
rent stabilization and just cause for eviction measure on the ballot. In November 
2017 City adopted its Assessment of Fair Housing., In 2019 City adopted 
Relocation Assistance Ordinance for tenants displaced due to unsafe conditions 
determined by Code Enforcement.  City also budgeted funds to front relocation 
assistance in urgent situations.
H 1.8 Condominium 
Conversion
Continue the existing policy of 
protecting existing residents by 
offering purchase opportunities, long-
term leases and relocation assistance.
Ongoing
There were zero (0) condo conversions in 2018. There were two (2) condo 
conversions in 2019. There were zero (0) condo conversions in 2020 and 2021.
H 1.9 Demolitions
Prohibit demolition of existing 
residences until a building permit for 
new construction has been issued, 
unless health and safety problems 
exist.  Prevent housing stock from 
becoming health and safety problems 
through code enforcement efforts.
Ongoing
Demolition ordinance will continue to be implemented.
H 2.1 Fair Share Housing
 Monitor housing production against 
ABAG Fair Share Allocation. (Regional 
Housing Need Allocation-RHNA)
Annual
See Tables  B and  LEAP of the San Mateo Annual Progress Report
H 2.2 Jobs/Housing 
Balance
Monitor housing production against 
new job creation.
Annual
The City continues to work toward addressing the jobs-housing balance. The 
jobs housing ratio is based upon number of jobs per employed resident and is 
considered balanced the closer the ratio is to 1.00. 
Housing Programs Progress Report  
Describe progress of all programs including local efforts to remove governmental constraints to the maintenance, improvement, and development of housing as identified in the housing 
element.
Table D
Program Implementation Status pursuant to GC Section 65583
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Housing Element Implementation
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
1
524 of 662

--- page 525 ---
H 2.3 Public Funding of 
Low/Moderate Income 
Housing
1) Set aside 20% of general fund 
property tax revenues from former RDA 
areas aka "Boomerang Funds". 2) 
Assist 50 Extremely Low units. 3) 85 
Very Low units. 4) 10 Low and 60 
Moderate income units.
1) 60 units, July 2015. 2) 
60 units, July 2017. 3) 60 
Units, July 2019. 4) 25 
Units, July 2022. 
City set aside  "boomerang funds" for housing in years 2015-19, but not in 2020 
due to fiscal constraints of General fund. 1)The lease-up of 60 units of moderate 
units was completed at the 2000 S. Delaware project in 2015. 2) City executed 
Development Agreement with BRIDGE Housing to construct 68 family rental 
units targeted to households 30-60% AMI.  Planning approvals were obtained 
Jan 2018, project closed escrow in December 2018, project completed in August 
2020, and move-ins began in September 2020. 3)The City has also entered into a 
development agreement with Mid-Pen for 225 units of affordable housing in 
downtown San Mateo. Entitlements were granted in 2020, escrow closed on the 
financing in December 2021, and construction will commence throughout 2022. 
H 2.4 Private Development 
of Affordable Housing
1) Maintain Inclusionary Housing 
Requirements on ownership and rental 
residential developments. 2) Implement 
Commercial Linkage Fee. 
Ongoing
1) City increased the minimum inclusionary requirement from 10% to 15% for its 
BMR program in February  2020.  2)The City participated in a Countywide Nexus 
study that was completed in September 2015.  City Council  adopted a 
Commercial Linkage Fee ordinance in 2016. All non-housing projects with net 
new construction of 5,000SF or greater are required to pay the fee.
H 2.5 Distribution of 
Low/Mod Housing
Consider during review of applications 
for funding of affordable housing 
projects.
Ongoing
The City’s current Below Market Rate program ensures that affordable housing 
is developed throughout the City rather than in specific areas since it is applied 
on all new housing projects that contain 11 or more units.  Additionally, staff 
tries to avoid concentration of new affordable housing in any given 
neighborhood. 
H 2.6 Rental Housing
Consider during review of applications 
for multi-family housing.
Ongoing
The decision to develop rental vs. for-sale units in multifamily projects varies 
with the market.  Some developers don't decide whether to sell or rent their 
units until the units are under construction and the market is evaluated at that 
time.  
H 2.7 Secondary Units
Ensure compliance with regulations, 
architectural standards, and design 
guidelines that promote design 
compatibility with the principle 
residence and the neighborhood, 
provide required parking on-site, and 
minimize privacy impacts on adjoining 
properties.
Ongoing
Consistent with 2016 state housing legislation, the City Council adopted a new 
Accessory Dwelling Unit ordinance in March 2017, which allows for one 
Accessory Dwelling Unit (aka secondary units) as of right within residential 
zoning districts.  Prior to the 2017 ordinance, an average of 2-3 permits were 
issued each year. Between April and December 2017, a total of 16 applications 
for ADU permits were submitted, of which seven projects have been issued 
building permits and the remaining are pending review. In 2018 the City issued 
building permits for 8 ADU and Certificates of Occupancy for 8.   In 2019 , 45 
were issued permits and 21 were completed. In 2020, 52 were issued permits 
and 35 were completed. The city is working on another revision of the ADU 
Ordinance to further streamline production in 2020. A One-stop webpage was 
designed to provide a user friendly resource  regarding development standards 
and City developed a flat fee for ADU planning applications to limit costs. In 
2021, 68 were issued building permits and 51 were completed.
H 2.8 Single Room 
Occupancy
Adopt a Single Room Occupancy 
ordinance to allow the development of 
new SRO projects.
2018
The City does not have a Single Room Occupancy ordinance. There were no 
applications for SRO developments during this reporting period. An SRO 
ordinance will be developed in conjunction with any request for development of 
an SRO project.
H 2.9 Multi-Family 
Location
Maintain multi-family zoning on 
specified sites consistent with the Land 
Use Map or Land Use Element policies.
Ongoing
The locations designated in this policy have been designated as multi-family 
residential on the Land Use Map and have been reclassified to a multi-family 
zoning designation.  The City has maintained existing land zoned for multi-
family use. Multi-family projects have been developed at Bay Meadows and 
throughout the Rail Corridor Plan area.
H 2.10 Housing Densities
Consider policy during the 
development review process.
Ongoing
Regulations to provide for greater density upon provision of public benefits and 
comprehensive multi-family guidelines have not yet been developed.  Both the 
Measure H (1991), Measure P (2004) and Measure Y (2020) voter initiatives 
established density ranges in the City. Project specific amenities are analyzed 
on a case by case basis during the public review process. 
H 2.11 Senior Project 
Location
Consider during review of 
reclassification applications to the 
Senior Citizen Overlay district and 
Residential Care Facility Special Use 
Permits.
Ongoing
The City allows Senior Projects within multi-family and commercially zoned 
properties.   The City continues to promote the development of senior housing 
through its use of the Senior Citizen Overlay District.  The Kimochi Senior Care 
Facility, approved in 2013, was completed during 2016.  
H 2.12 Mixed Use
Permit the construction of housing or 
mixed-use projects in commercial 
areas. Encourage mixed use in specific 
area plans, the El Camino Real Master 
Plan, and the San Mateo Rail Corridor 
Transit-Oriented Development Plan. 
Consider designation in future plans 
for 42 Avenue. 
Ongoing
Construction of mixed use buildings are permitted in all commercial zoning 
districts.  Applicants developing in specific areas such as the El Camino Real 
Master Plan and San Mateo Corridor Plan areas are encouraged to develop 
mixed-use buildings.
H 2.13 Transportation 
Oriented Development
Encourage TOD in locations near 
transit nodes. Ensure that  proposals 
conform to the TOD and the San Mateo 
Rail Corridor TOD Plan. 
Ongoing
The San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan Transit-Oriented Development Plan, and a 
subsequent TOD ordinance, was adopted by the City Council in 2005. This 
document and the subsequent specific plan and design guidelines have 
regulated development in the rezoned Transit Oriented Development (TOD) 
properties. As of 2021, Bay Meadows has completed 927 units with 67 units 
approved for MU 2 & MU3, Station Park Green has built 492 units with 107 units 
under construction (Certificate of Occupancy anticipated in 2022). 
2
525 of 662

--- page 526 ---
H 2.14 The Homeless
1) Continue support where feasible for 
programs and facilities to prevent 
homelessness. 2) Allow shelters a 
permitted uses in Regional/Community 
Commercial zones. Review Buffer zone 
and amend code if necessary. 3) 
Support home sharing as alternative to 
homelessness.
Ongoing
1) City provides continuous representation and participation on the County 
Continuum of Care focusing on programs for prevention of homelessness and 
services to homeless families & individuals.  City actively participated in 
development of HOPE San Mateo County, the 10-year plan to end 
homelessness.  The HOT Program (Housing Outreach Team) started as a first 
year pilot project in 2006 focused on developing a Housing First model for 
chronically homeless persons in Downtown San Mateo and has been replicated 
now throughout the county.  The Vendome located downtown,  provides 16 
units of permanent supportive housing for the most chronic formerly homeless 
individuals.  First Step for Families provide 39 units for emergency and 
transitional shelter for families with children. Starting in 2021, The City began 
providing assistance for client services for formerly homeless individuals living 
at the Montara Affordable Housing Development as well as starting a rapid-
rehousing program for individuals and families at risk of homelessness. 2) 
Zoning Code was amended in 2009 to allow emergency shelters in C2 and C3 
Districts as a permitted use.  Emergency shelters were also made a permitted 
use for religious institutions located in residential zoned areas. The City's 
Zoning Code designates a 300ft buffer from parks and schools which will be 
removed during this Housing Element, in coordination with the next update to 
the City's Zoning Code. 3) The City supports home sharing through funding HIP 
(Human Investment Project) Housing, a local non-profit whose main service is 
matching home seekers with those offering space for home sharing.
H 2.15 Open Choice
Continue implementation of the Fair 
Housing Resolution, affirmative 
marketing of city-subsidized housing 
projects, and provision of available 
funding for private nonprofit 
organizations that monitor and provide 
assistance to those experiencing 
discrimination in housing choice.
Ongoing
The City contracts with Project Sentinel to provide Fair Housing services,  
monitoring and investigation.  All housing related projects or services funded 
by the City include affirmative marketing guidelines and are monitored on a 
regular basis. The City began the Assessment of Fair Housing process 
alongside San Mateo County and other entitlement Cities within the county in 
2016. The report was completed and approved in 2017. 
H 2.16 Special Need 
Groups
1) Continue to support programs 
particularly designed to accommodate 
special needs groups.  2) Consider 
requests for Reasonable 
Accommodations to City zoning code 
in accordance with ordinance.
Ongoing
1) 2015-2021: The City provided financial assistance to 3 nonprofit organizations 
that provided housing, rental assistance and/or housing related services to 
variety of special needs populations. 2) Reasonable Accommodation Ordinance 
was adopted on 6/16/14.
H 3.1 Sustainable Housing 
Development
Ensure future housing developed in 
sustainable manner.
Ongoing
The City has had a Green Building Ordinance since 2009 and adopted the latest 
state Cal-Green code effective January 2020. It also adopted new reach codes 
effective January 2021 that go beyond the state building codes.  In 2020, the City 
updated its 10 year Climate Action Plan to implement programs to increase 
energy/water efficiency and decrease auto use to lower green house gas 
emissions.
H 4.1 Energy and Water 
Efficiency
Coordinate countywide marketing 
efforts to promote Property Assessed 
Clean Energy financing programs to 
residents.
7/1/2015
The City joined 5 PACE programs including California First, HERO, Figtree, 
Ygrene, and Open PACE to provide financing options to homeowners. 
Information about the PACE programs is being promoted through local 
contractors.
3
526 of 662

--- page 527 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Reporting Period
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Planning Period
5th Cycle
01/31/2015 - 01/31/2023
Description of Commercial 
Development Bonus
Commercial Development Bonus 
Date Approved
3
4
APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Very Low
Income
Low
Income
Moderate
Income
Above Moderate
Income
Description of Commercial 
Development Bonus
Commercial Development Bonus 
Date Approved
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
Units Constructed as Part of Agreement
 Commercial Development Bonus Approved pursuant to GC Section 65915.7
Table E
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Project Identifier
1
2
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation 
formulas
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Annual Progress Report  
January 2020
&nbsp;
527 of&nbsp;662

--- page 528 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Reporting Period
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation formulas
Planning Period
5th Cycle
01/31/2015 - 01/31/2023
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Extremely Low-
Income+
Very Low-Income+
Low-Income+
TOTAL UNITS+
Extremely Low-
Income+
Very Low-
Income+
Low-Income+
TOTAL UNITS+
Rehabilitation Activity
Preservation of Units At-Risk
Acquisition of Units
Mobilehome Park Preservation
Total Units by Income
Table F 
Please note this table is optional: The jurisdiction can use this table to report units that have been substantially rehabilitated, converted from non-affordable to affordable by acquisition, and preserved, including mobilehome park preservation, consistent with 
the standards set forth in Government Code section 65583.1, subdivision (c). Please note, motel, hotel, hostel rooms or other structures that are converted from non-residential to residential units pursuant to Government Code section 65583.1(c)(1)(D) are 
considered net-new housing units and must be reported in Table A2 and not reported in Table F.
Activity Type
Units that Do Not Count Towards RHNA+
Listed for Informational Purposes Only
Units that Count Towards RHNA +
Note - Because the statutory requirements severely limit what can be 
counted, please contact HCD to receive the password that will enable you 
to populate these fields.
The description should adequately document how each 
unit complies with subsection (c) of Government Code 
Section 65583.1+
Units Rehabilitated, Preserved and Acquired for Alternative Adequate Sites pursuant to Government Code section 65583.1(c) 
Annual Progress Report  
January 2020
&nbsp;
528 of&nbsp;662

--- page 529 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Reporting Period
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Planning Period
5th Cycle
01/31/2015 - 01/31/2023 ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Housing Element Implementation
2
3
4
APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Realistic Capacity 
Identified in the 
Housing Element
Entity to whom the site 
transferred
Intended Use for Site
034-183-060
480 E 4th Avenue
Kiku Crossing
45
Mid Pen Housing 
225 Affordable Family rentals
1
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation 
formulas
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Table G
Locally Owned Lands Included in the Housing Element Sites Inventory that have been sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of
Project Identifier
NOTE: This table must only be filled out if the housing element sites 
inventory contains a site which is or was owned by the reporting 
jurisdiction, and has been sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of 
during the reporting year.
&nbsp;
529 of&nbsp;662

--- page 530 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Note: "+" indicates 
an optional field
Reporting Period
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 
31)
contain auto-
calculation 
formulas
Designation
Size
Notes
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
APN
Street Address/Intersection
Existing Use
Number of 
Units
Surplus 
Designation
Parcel Size (in 
acres)
Notes
034-179-050
4th Ave and Railroad Ave
Vacant
0
Surplus Land
0.25
City parking lot-
Developer selected 
for exclusive 
negotions for aff 
housing 
034-179-060
4th Ave and Railroad Ave
Vacant
0
Surplus Land
0.13
City parking lot-
Developer selected 
for exclusive 
negotions for aff 
housing 
034-191-110
308 5th Avenue
Vacant
0
Surplus Land
0.35
City parking lot-only 
one proposal 
received, rejected 
by City
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
Parcel Identifier
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Housing Element Implementation
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Table H
Locally Owned Surplus Sites
&nbsp;
530 of&nbsp;662

--- page 531 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Reporting Year
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Planning Period
5th Cycle
01/31/2015 - 01/31/2023
Current Year
Deed Restricted
0
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
19
Non-Deed Restricted
19
Deed Restricted
2
Non-Deed Restricted
37
239
316
Units by Structure Type
Entitled
Permitted
Completed
SFA
0
47
25
SFD
0
26
23
2 to 4
4
0
0
5 +
0
0
0
ADU
3
68
51
MH
0
0
0
Total
7
141
99
8
123
123
0
0
0
0
0
Income 
Rental
Ownership
Total
Very Low
0
0
0
Low
0
0
0
Moderate
0
0
0
Above Moderate
0
0
0
Total
0
0
0
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation formulas
Units Constructed - SB 35 Streamlining Permits
Number of Streamlining Applications Approved
Total Developments Approved with Streamlining
Total Units Constructed with Streamlining
Total Housing Applications Submitted:
Number of Proposed Units in All Applications Received:
Total Housing Units Approved:
Total Housing Units Disapproved:
Total Units
Housing Applications Summary
Use of SB 35 Streamlining Provisions
Note: Units serving extremely low-income households are included in the very low-income permitted units totals
Number of Applications for Streamlining
Building Permits Issued by Affordability Summary
Income Level
Very Low
Low
Moderate
Above Moderate
531 of 662

--- page 532 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Reporting Year
2021
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Total Award Amount
Total award amount is auto‐populated based on amounts entered in rows 15‐26.
Task
 $ Amount Awarded
$ Cumulative Reimbursement 
Requested
Other 
Funding
Notes
Summary of entitlements, building permits, and certificates of occupancy (auto‐populated from Table A2)
Current Year
Deed Restricted
4
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
7
Non-Deed Restricted
1
Deed Restricted
0
Non-Deed Restricted
2
109
123
Current Year
Deed Restricted
0
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
19
Non-Deed Restricted
19
Deed Restricted
2
Non-Deed Restricted
37
239
316
Current Year
Deed Restricted
6
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Local Early Action Planning (LEAP) Reporting
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Please update the status of the proposed uses listed in the entity’s application for funding and the corresponding impact on housing within the region or jurisdiction, as applicable, categorized based on the eligible uses specified in Section 
50515.02 or 50515.03, as applicable.
‐
$                                                                                                                                            
Task Status
Certificate of Occupancy Issued by Affordability Summary
Income Level
Very Low
Moderate
Above Moderate
Total Units
Completed Entitlement Issued by Affordability Summary
Income Level
Very Low
Low
Moderate
Above Moderate
Total Units
Building Permits Issued by Affordability Summary
Income Level
Very Low
Low
&nbsp;
532 of&nbsp;662

--- page 533 ---
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
8
Non-Deed Restricted
18
Deed Restricted
0
Non-Deed Restricted
25
205
262
Total Units
Very Low
Low
Moderate
Above Moderate
&nbsp;
533 of&nbsp;662

--- page 534 ---
Page 1 of 4
Housing Successor Annual Report 2020-21
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
HOUSING SUCCESSOR ANNUAL REPORT
LOW AND MODERATE INCOME HOUSING ASSET FUND 31
FISCAL YEAR 2020-2021
This Housing Successor Annual Report (Report) for the Fund 31 Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Fund 
(LMIHAF) has been prepared pursuant to California Health and Safety Code Section 34176.1(f). The purpose of 
this Report is to provide the governing body of the Housing Successor an annual report on the housing assets 
and activities of the City of San Mateo acting as the Housing Successor of the former Redevelopment Agency of 
the City of San Mateo under Part 1.85, Division 24 of the California Health and Safety Code, in particular sections 
34176 and 34176.1 (the Dissolution Law) for the fiscal year July 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021. 
An independent financial audit of the Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Fund for Fiscal Year 2020-21 was 
prepared by The Pun Group as part of the annual audit for the City of San Mateo. The financial audit was 
submitted and approved by the City Council at its December 6, 2021 meeting and is separate from this annual 
summary report. The following Report conforms with Sections 1 through 11, of Section 34176.1(f) of the 
Dissolution Law: 
1)
Amount Deposited into LMIHAF: Total amount of funds deposited into the LMIHAF during the Fiscal Year. 
Any amounts deposited for items listed on the Recognized Obligation Payment Schedule (ROPS) must be 
distinguished from the other amounts deposited. Also, loan repayments received to meet former obligations 
to the Supplemental Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund (SERAF) are listed separately.
Amount Deposited in LMIHAF
 
Interest Earnings
$5,662
Misc Revenue
$24
Loan Repayment Principal
$209,281
Loan Repayment Interest
$330,137
Sub total Revenues
$545,103
Deposits Received for the Payment of ROPS Enforceable Obligations
N/A
SERAF Repayments
N/A
Total LMIHAF Deposits 7/1/20 to 6/30/21
$545,103
2)
Ending Balance of LMIHAF: Statement of the balance in the LMIHAF as of the close of the Fiscal Year. Any 
amounts deposited for items listed on the ROPS must be distinguished from the other amounts deposited. 
Fund Balance
 
Fund Balance 6/30/21
$3,876,195
Funds Reserved for ROPS Obligations
N/A
Funds Reserved for Executed Housing Commitments
$2,560,924
Unrestricted Fund Balance 6/30/21
$1,315,271
534 of 662

--- page 535 ---
Page 2 of 4
Housing Successor Annual Report 2020-21
3)
Statutory Value of Assets Owned by Housing Successor: The statutory value of real property owned by the 
Housing Successor, the value of loans and grants receivables, and the sum of these two amounts. 
Under the Dissolution Law and for purposes of this Report, the “statutory value of real property” means the 
value of properties formerly held by the former redevelopment agency prior to 2/1/2012 as listed on the 
housing asset transfer schedule approved by the Department of Finance (DOF) and the purchase price of 
properties purchased by the Housing Successor after 2/1/2012. 
Assets
 
Value of Real Property 
87,120 
Value of Loans and Grants Receivable
33,086,986
Statutory Value of Housing Assets
33,174,106
4)
Description of Expenditures from LMIHAF: Description of the expenditures made from the LMIHAF during 
the Fiscal Year by category.  Also describe any loan repayments of former RDA to City in accordance with 
Section 34191.4 (b)(3)9A)
Expenditures
 
Monitoring/Preserving Existing Affordable Housing /Administration 
$91,408
Homeless Prevention/Rapid Rehousing 
N/A
Affordable Housing Development
N/A
Total LMIHAF Expenditures 7/1/2020 to 6/30/2021
$91,408
 
Cap on Administration Expenditures 
(2% of Statutory Value of Assets or $223,400 whichever is greater)
$663,482
Administrative expenses are well below the cap of $663,482. 
5)
Description of Transfers: Description of transfers, if any, to another housing successor agency made in 
previous fiscal year(s), including whether the funds are unencumbered and the status of projects, if any, for 
which the transferred LMIHAF will be used. 
The Housing Successor did not make any LMIHAF transfers to other housing successor(s) under Section 
34176.1(c)(2) during the Fiscal Year. 
6)
Project Descriptions: Description of any project for which the Housing Successor receives or holds property 
tax revenue pursuant to the ROPS and the status of that project. 
The Housing Successor has no further ROPS obligations or funds held.
7)
Description of Outstanding Obligations under Section 33413: Describes the outstanding inclusionary and 
replacement housing obligations, if any, under Section 33413 that remained outstanding prior to dissolution 
of the former redevelopment agency as of February 1, 2012, along with the Housing Successor’s progress in 
535 of 662

--- page 536 ---
Page 3 of 4
Housing Successor Annual Report 2020-21
meeting those prior obligations, if any, of the former redevelopment agency and how the Housing Successor 
plans to meet unmet obligations, if any. 
There are no unmet inclusionary or replacement housing obligations from the former redevelopment agency.
  
8)
Properties Acquired: The following provides a status update on the project(s) for properties that have been 
acquired by the Housing Successor using LMIHAF on or after February 1, 2012: 
No properties have been acquired by the Housing Successor after February 1, 2012. 
9)
Income Targeting: Description of LMIHAF expenditures by income restriction for a five-year period, with the 
time period beginning January 1, 2014.  Cumulative thresholds must be met every five years starting in 
2019. 
Development of housing funded by the LMIHAF must be affordable to and occupied by households earning 
80% or less of the Area Median Income (AMI) per 34176.1 (a)(3).  

A minimum of 30% of the funds must be expended on the housing development for households 
earning 30% or less of AMI.

A maximum of 20% of the funds may be expended on housing development for households earning 
between 60-80% of AMI.
Five Year Income Targeting for LMIHAF Expenditures
Five Year Period
 30% AMI 
31-60% AMI
61-80% AMI
Total 
7/1/19 to 6/30/20
0
0 
0 
0
7/1/20 to 6/30/21
0
0
0
0
7/1/21 to 6/30/22
7/1/22 to 6/30/23
7/1/23 to 6/30/24
Total
0
0
0
0
% of Total 
100%
Minimum Required %
30%
 
 
 
Maximum Allowed %
 
 
20%
 

Senior Housing: Percentage of deed-restricted senior rental housing units assisted individually or 
jointly by the Housing Successor, its former Redevelopment Agency, and its host jurisdiction within 
the previous 10 years in relation to the aggregate number of units of all deed-restricted rental 
housing assisted within the same time period cannot exceed 50%. 
Senior Housing Assisted by City of San Mateo RDA or LMIHAF
 
No of Senior Rental Units Assisted July 2011 to June 2021
0
No of Total Rental Units Assisted July 2011 to June 2021
202
Senior Housing Percentage
0%
536 of 662

--- page 537 ---
Page 4 of 4
Housing Successor Annual Report 2020-21

Excess Surplus: This section provides the amount of excess surplus in the LMIHAF, if any, the length 
of time that the Housing Successor has had excess surplus, and the Housing Successor’s plan for 
eliminating the excess surplus. 
Excess Surplus is defined in Section 34176.1(d) as an unencumbered amount in the account that exceeds the 
greater of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or the aggregate amount deposited into the account during the 
Housing Successor’s preceding four fiscal years, whichever is greater.
Excess Surplus
 
LMIHAF Deposits 7/1/2017- 6/30/2018
1,285,941
LMIHAF Deposits 7/1/2018- 6/30/2019
554,309
LMIHAF Deposits 7/1/2019- 6/30/2020
527,741
LMIHAF Deposits 7/1/2020 - 6/30/2021
545,103
Total Deposits
2,913,095
 
Greater of $1,000,000 or previous four Fiscal Years Deposits
2,913,095
Available Unencumbered Balance 6/30/21
1,315,271
Excess Surplus
0
As of 6/30/21 there is no Excess Surplus.

Inventory of Homeownership Units:  Number of ownership units assisted with LMIHAF with 
covenants, the number of those lost to portfolio and the reason, and the amount of funds returned 
to fund as a result. Identify if an outside agency is contracted to manage ownership portfolio.
Ownership Units
 
Number of Units
76
Number of Units Lost to Portfolio
0
   
Reason:  
 
Funds returned to LMIHAF
0   
Housing Successor did not contract out management of ownership units to outside entity.  
537 of 662

--- page 538 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  25
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 22-5899
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permit Program – Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve an updated Outdoor Restaurant and Merchandise Display Encroachment Permit program in 
order to add outdoor dining in the pedestrian mall area and change the name of the applicable fee from Outdoor 
Restaurant Seating and Merchandise Display Encroachment Permit to Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining 
Encroachment Permit in the Comprehensive Fee Schedule for 2021-22.
BACKGROUND:
In June 2020, as a response to State mandates prohibiting indoor dining for restaurants in order to prevent the spread of 
COVID-19, the City Council authorized the creation of a Temporary Outdoor Dining Program at no cost to businesses. The 
program allowed for sidewalk dining, the use of on-street parking spaces for parklets, and approved the temporary closure 
of portions of B Street in order to accommodate outdoor dining on the closed streets. Prior to the pandemic, the City 
allowed for sidewalk dining through the Outdoor Restaurant Seating and Merchandise Display Encroachment Permit 
program. 
The Temporary Outdoor Dining Program was well received by the community, including by both residents and businesses, 
and has added vibrancy to the City’s commercial districts. After several extensions of the temporary permit program by 
City Council, the current Temporary Outdoor Dining Program expires April 30, 2022. Due to the overwhelming success of 
the Temporary Outdoor Dining program, the City Council directed staff to develop programs to support the continuation of 
outdoor dining beyond the pandemic. Staff has developed a proposed program for use of City sidewalks and the 
pedestrian mall. This program will augment the City’s existing permanent parklet program for businesses to build parklets 
in on-street parking spaces, which was approved by City Council in June 2021.
In September 2021, the City Council established the Pedestrian Mall on B Street between 1st and 3rd Avenues to 
permanently close those street segments to through traffic. This report is seeking Council approval to expand the City’s 
existing outdoor sidewalk dining program to include the use of the Pedestrian Mall area through adoption of the Sidewalk 
and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permit program and to change the name of the fee to align with the 
revised permit name. 
Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permit Program 
The City already has an existing Outdoor Restaurant Seating and Merchandise Display Program that allows businesses to 
provide outdoor dining on the sidewalk, subject to approval of an encroachment permit from the Department of Public 
Works. Staff recommends augmenting the existing Outdoor Restaurant Seating and Merchandise Display program to 
include the use of the pedestrian malls and make the following changes to the existing program:
538 of 662

--- page 539 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Rename the required permit from Outdoor Restaurant Seating and Merchandise Display Encroachment Permit 
to Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permit. 
•
Add the Pedestrian Malls to the eligible areas for outdoor dining, in addition to sidewalks. 
•
Limit businesses to the seating areas in front of their business unless provided with written approval from the 
adjacent business owner.
In addition to the changes above, staff is also recommending inserting the following requirements for businesses using the 
area inside the Pedestrian Mall. 
•
No permanent structures allowed, but removable platforms are allowed. 
•
No roofs, tents, canopies, and shade structures (umbrellas are allowed for shade).
•
Emergency Access Lane must be kept clear at all times. 
•
Require applicants to notify landlords and confirm that the installation conforms with lease terms.
The Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permit program outlines these standards and objective 
criteria for review and approval of permit applications. The outdoor seating areas allowed on the pedestrian malls must be 
able to be removed and stored off-site upon 72-hour advance notification from the City. This allows for maximum 
flexibility to open the street to host community events with City partners or for City-sponsored events. 
Staff removed references allowing for merchandise display from the permit since the Municipal Code currently prohibits 
outdoor merchandise displays. Staff plans to revisit this prohibition with the City Council at a later date along with other 
proposed Municipal Code amendments.
The annual permit fee is set at $371 and increases every year based on the annual Consumer Price Index. Businesses that 
have a permit will be required to renew it annually in order to maintain outdoor seating. In addition, businesses are 
required to provide proof of insurance and to indemnify the City for use of the public right-of-way.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The fee for the permit is set a $371 and is anticipated to cover the cost of staff time for reviewing and processing the 
annual permits. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 15378(b)(5), the amendment of the fee 
schedule to change the name of the fee is not project subject to CEQA in that it is an administrative activity that will not 
impact the environment. 
The establishment of the Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Program is categorically exempt from CEQA as an 
"existing facility" because it consists of a minor alteration to the operation of an existing City Street involving negligible or 
no expansion of the former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301).
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution 
STAFF CONTACT
Jennifer Chen, Economic Development Manager
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7009
539 of 662

--- page 540 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO._____(2022)
ADOPTING SIDEWALK AND PEDESTRIAN MALL OUTDOOR DINING PERMIT PROGRAM AND 
APPROVING A REVISION TO THE COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE FOR 2021-2022 TO RENAME THE 
APPLICABLE PERMIT FEE
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo (the “City”) has established a pedestrian mall on B Street between 
1st and 3rd Avenues; and
WHEREAS, the City has an existing Outdoor Restaurant Seating and Merchandise Display 
Encroachment Permit Program (the “Program”) allowing for businesses to use City sidewalks for outdoor 
dining; and
WHEREAS, staff recommends expanding the Program to include the pedestrian mall (the “Expanded 
Program”); and
WHEREAS, the Expanded Program will allow for outdoor dining installations on the sidewalk and in 
the pedestrian mall; and 
WHEREAS, participation on the Expanded Program will require businesses to obtain an 
encroachment permit and to pay a permit fee; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to change the name of the required permit fee from “Outdoor Restaurant 
Seating and Merchandise Display Permit” to “Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Permit” in the 
City’s Master Fee Schedule.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES that:
1.
The establishment of the Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Program is categorically 
exempt from CEQA under the category of "existing facility" because it consists of a minor 
alteration to the operation of an existing City Street involving negligible or no expansion of the 
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301).
2.
In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines section 
15378(b)(5), the amendment of the fee schedule to change the name of the fee is not a 
project subject to CEQA in that it is an administrative activity that will not impact the 
environment.
3.
The Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Permit Program attached as Exhibit A is 
approved.
4.
The name of the applicable fee is changed to “Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining 
Permit” in the City’s Master Fee Schedule.
540 of 662

--- page 541 ---
5.
All permitted sidewalk and outdoor dining installations must adhere to the Sidewalk and 
Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Permit Program.
6.
This resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.
541 of 662

--- page 542 ---
Exhibit A
SIDEWALK AND PEDESTRIAN MALL 
OUTDOOR DINING PERMIT PROGRAM
Outdoor dining is a great way to add liveliness to City streets and support local business operations. To that 
end, the City has created programs allowing businesses to expand their operations with additional restaurant 
seating in the public right-of-way, which includes City sidewalks and streets. The City has created two distinct 
programs to provide food service businesses the opportunity to expand a portion of their operations outside 
directly in front of their business frontage:

Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permit – This permit allows ground floor 
food service businesses to provide outdoor seating and related furnishings in the following areas if the 
applicant meets certain City standards and conditions of use:
o
Commercial district areas on sidewalks (except when fronting El Camino Real).
o
The pedestrian mall on B Street between 1st and 3rd Avenue.

Parklet Encroachment Permit – This permit allows food service businesses to construct seating areas in 
on-street parking spaces directly in front of their business. Parklets are allowed in all commercial 
districts except along El Camino Real. Parklet Encroachment permits are not allowed inside the 
pedestrian mall (B Street between 1st and 3rd Avenue). If you are interested in expanding your business 
into the on-street parking area, please review the City’s Parklet Program Guidelines and Parklet 
Encroachment Permit Application. 
Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permits are not available to food service 
businesses located in private shopping centers or businesses along El Camino Real because these locations are 
not under the City’s control.  Terms and Conditions for such permits are listed below and may be updated by 
staff from time to time as appropriate.
Food service businesses interested in offering outdoor dining along a sidewalk or within the Pedestrian Mall 
must include all submittal requirements listed below, submit a Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Encroachment 
Permit Application and receive approval prior to placing any furnishings in the public right-of-way.  
For More Information. Questions or additional information regarding the Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall 
Outdoor Dining and Parklet Programs, please contact Jennifer Chen, the City’s Economic Development 
Manager at (650) 533-7009.
542 of 662

--- page 543 ---
Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permit 
Application Submittal Requirements
The following documents and fees are required in order to process a permit for use of the sidewalk or 
pedestrian mall for outdoor dining:
1.
Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Encroachment Permit Application
2.
Site Plan Drawings and Photos of Business Frontage.  Site plan drawings may be drawn by hand 
and must include the following information (see sample drawings provided as Attachment 1):
o
Label the location of the business on diagram and storefront boundaries.
o
For sidewalk outdoor dining only: Show existing sidewalk obstructions (fire hydrants, trees, 
light poles, bike racks, utility boxes, manholes, newspaper racks, etc.) and dimensions 
between obstructions. 
o
For pedestrian mall outdoor dining only: show the location of the emergency access lane.
o
Show the layout of all proposed furnishings (planters, tables, chairs, umbrellas, heaters, 
fencing, etc.) 
o
Photographs of the business frontage
3.
Application Fee. The applicant is responsible to pay the annual permit fee prior to permit 
expiration. Fees are non-refundable.  The current fee amount ($371 as of July 1, 2021) is set forth 
in the City’s Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
4.
Certificate of Liability Insurance. Applicants shall provide proof of commercial general liability (or 
comprehensive) and property damage insurance and endorsements showing the City of San 
Mateo as additional insured on the policy and stating that the insurance is primary. See attached 
insurance standards requirements. Encroachment Permits issued shall be valid only during the 
term of liability insurance coverage. Applicants are responsible to submit updated insurance 
documents prior to the expiration date and annual fee.  Failure to do so will result in revocation 
of the permit.
Please submit all documents electronically by sending an email to pwencroachment@cityofsanmateo.org or 
in person at the Public Works counter at San Mateo City Hall at 330 West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403 
between 8am to 12pm and 1pm to 4:30pm.
543 of 662

--- page 544 ---
Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining Encroachment Permit 
Terms and Conditions:
1. General Conditions of Use. Outdoor seating proposed on public sidewalks and within the pedestrian mall 
areas must meet the following terms and conditions: 

Comply with Chapter 17.08 and 27.87 of the San Mateo Municipal Code and other local, state 
and federal laws governing accessibility.

Adjacency to Storefront.  Outdoor seating must be located along the frontage of the storefront 
applying for the permit. Businesses will only be allowed to use a portion of the adjacent business 
owner’s frontage to expand their outdoor dining area if they obtain a letter from the current 
adjacent business owner stating that they have agreed to allow their frontage to be used. 
Permission to use the space in front of an adjacent business can be revoked by that adjacent 
business at any time.

Sidewalk Clearance. Outdoor seating areas must maintain a minimum sidewalk clearance and 
pedestrian through zone of 4-feet from any physical obstruction. This includes light poles, parking 
meters, fire hydrants, news racks, trees, entryways of adjacent businesses, or other barriers. 
Tables or seating may be placed near the curb if a minimum of 2-foot clearance to the curb is 
maintained. Tables or seating shall not be placed within the gutter.

ADA Accessibility.  All seating areas must conform to the applicable provisions, rules, regulations 
and guidelines of the California Building Code (Title 24, Chapter 11b) and Americans with Disabilities 
Act.

Outdoor Cooking Not Allowed. No outdoor cooking is allowed. Examples of types of foods that is 
considered outdoor cooking are hotpots, table-top barbeques, raclettes, fondues, and similar. In 
addition, outdoor restaurant busing stations are not allowed.

Live Music. No amplified lived music is allowed without a Special Community Events permit from 
the City of San Mateo.
2.  Furnishings. All outdoor furnishings (tables, chairs, umbrellas, planters, fencing, etc.) must be heavy enough 
to withstand high winds in order to protect guests and pedestrians. All furnishings may need to be stored inside 
the business from time to time to accommodate maintenance, cleaning, special events, or during periods of 
inclement or hazardous weather. Please ensure that weights used to anchor fixtures and furnishing do not 
create tripping hazards for pedestrians.

Bolting Not Allowed.  At no time shall any seating, tables, or umbrellas be bolted or affixed in any 
way to the public sidewalk, roadway, landscaping, or any structure (including but not limited to: 
buildings, fire hydrants, street trees, streetlights, parking meters, or traffic poles, etc.).

Fences/Railings/Stanchions. Businesses wanting to mark the boundary between the outdoor 
seating area and pedestrian path of travel are allowed only if the materials can easily be removed 
at the request of the City for special events and/or required maintenance. The height of these 
installations should not exceed 36 inches from the ground to the top of the railing, fencing or 
stanchions.

Umbrellas.  Umbrellas shall be fire-retardant, pressure-treated or manufactured of fire-resistant 
material. No portion of an umbrella shall be less than eighty (80) inches above the ground. 
544 of 662

--- page 545 ---

Canopies Not Allowed. Tents, canvas, roofs, shade structures are not allowed on the sidewalk or in 
the pedestrian malls.  

Portable Heaters. Space heaters are permitted if they are an outdoor approved type, are located 
in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations, and are located at least 2 feet from the 
edge of any umbrella canvas, any tree foliage, and any other flammable object or material. Heaters 
are not allowed directly under umbrellas but can be placed near them if clearances are 
maintained.

Electrical connections.  All wiring and electrical cords must be exterior rated, GFCI protected, and 
UL listed. Cords must not create tripping hazards on the sidewalk and may not be extended above 
the City right-of-way. The use of generators are prohibited. Businesses are not allowed to tap into 
existing City electrical connections such as twinkle light outlets or streetlight poles.  Utilization of 
existing City electrical connections shall be cause of termination of the permit.
3. Site Maintenance. Outdoor seating areas shall be maintained free of litter, refuse and debris. The area shall 
be scrubbed and mopped to remove any food or drink stains on a daily basis. Such cleaning shall be in 
accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Program, which prohibits any 
discharge other than storm water into the storm water drainage system. Failure to maintain the site or 
complaints received by the City related to lack of cleaning or upkeep shall be cause of termination of the 
permit.
4. Notice for Removal.  The City and/or utility companies may need to access the sidewalk or pedestrian mall 
area for maintenance, repairs, events, and/or other purposes. While the City and/or utility companies will try 
to give a 72-hour advance notice, it may not be possible when dealing with emergency repairs. Additionally, 
the City will not cover business losses related to the loss of seating or business interruptions due to 
construction.
6. Transfer. Applicant may only use the dining area for their business. Applicant may not lease/rent or receive 
funds for the seating area to another operator.
7. Term. The permit is valid for a maximum of one year.  Applicant must renew permits annually and pay for 
permit fees and update insurance information.
8. Certificate of Liability Insurance. Applicants must provide proof of commercial general liability (or 
comprehensive) and property damage insurance including endorsements showing the City of San Mateo as an 
additional insured on the policy and stating that the insurance is primary with regard to the City of San Mateo.  
The detailed insurance standards are provided in Attachment 2 to these Terms and Conditions. It is the 
applicant’s responsibility to update insurance prior to permit expiration. Failure to do so will result in revocation 
of the encroachment permit.
9. Termination. The City reserves the right to terminate the permit without cause. In addition, the permit may 
be revoked due to failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
10. Additional Provisions for Outdoor Seating Located on the Pedestrian Mall:
Businesses located along the pedestrian mall on B Street between 1st and 3rd Avenues will be required to meet 
these additional conditions of use. 

No Permanent Structures Allowed. Businesses located in the pedestrian mall are not allowed to build 
545 of 662

--- page 546 ---
any permanent structures. However, platforms will be allowed, provided that they can be designed to 
be easily removed upon 72 hours advance notice and stored off-street to allow for maintenance and 
City-sponsored events. Platforms must meet the following design criteria:
o
Materials - Platforms must be constructed from durable materials that can withstand wear and tear 
of elements. Pouring concrete for parklet platforms is not allowed. You may use concrete pavers on 
a platform structure instead. Surface materials must be textured or treated with a non-skid coating 
to ensure a safe walking surface. Loose particles, such as sand or loose stone, are not permitted.
o
Platform Threshold - The platform threshold must be flush and even with sidewalk and must not 
leave a gap greater than 1/2 inch, nor a vertical separation greater than 1/4 inch. 
o
Drainage - Platforms should allow for curbside drainage flow. A 6-inch height by 12-inch width 
minimum clear gutter space must be provided along the entire length of the proposed platform. 
Openings at either end of the parklet may be covered with screens to prevent debris buildup 
beneath the platform and in the gutter. It is the responsibility of the parklet permittee to clean the 
cover or screen to prevent any backup of storm water.  All parklets must provide access through the 
parklet platform or threshold to the gutter adjacent to the curb. 
o
Bolting Not Allowed - At no time may platforms be bolted or affixed in any way to the roadway or 
any structure (including but not limited to: buildings, fire hydrants, street trees, streetlight, parking 
meters, or traffic poles, etc.). 
o
ADA Accessibility - All accessibility elements of the proposed platform shall be designed, 
constructed and/or conform to the applicable provisions, rules, regulations and guidelines of the 
California Building Code and Americans with Disabilities Act.

Canopies Not Allowed. Tents, canvas, roofs, shade structures are not allowed in the pedestrian mall 
even if they are temporary/removable.  Umbrellas are the only forms of shade protection allowed.

ADA Considerations. Due to the slope of the street within the pedestrian mall, restaurants placing 
dining facilities in the pedestrian mall may also need to have tables available on the sidewalk in order to 
satisfy ADA accessibility requirements.  It is the permittee’s responsibility to ensure ADA compliance.

Special Events. When the City-sponsored events are planned, the City will provide businesses with 72 
hours advance notice to remove all furnishings from the pedestrian malls. If a business does not comply 
its encroachment permit will terminate and the City will remove the furnishings at the permit-holders 
expense and the furnishings will not be returned. Businesses wanting to host a special event will need to 
apply for a Special Community Events permit from the City.
Emergency Access Lane.  The center access lane must be kept clear at all times for emergency vehicles 
access and for short-term commercial vehicle loading, which is allowed from 1 am to 10 am daily. 
546 of 662

--- page 547 ---
Attachment 1
Sample Site Plans

Restaurant Entry Adjacent Business

Adjacent Business

Display Window

Streetlight Parking
pole meter

Sample Site Plan
Sidewalk Restaurant Seating NOT TO SCALE

Restaurant Entry Adjacent Business

Adjacent Business

“ ie 2.

EVA/Loading Clear Zone

Sample Site Plan
Pedestrian Mall NOT TO SCALE

547 of 662


--- page 548 ---
Attachment 2
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STANDARDS FOR INSURANCE
SIDEWALK AND PEDESTRIAN MALL OUTDOOR DINING ENCROACHMENT PERMIT 
Permittee shall procure and maintain for the uration of the permit insurance against claims for injuries to 
persons or damages to property which may arise from or in connection with Permittee’s operation and use of 
the public right-of-way. The cost of such insurance shall be borne by Permittee.
MINIMUM SCOPE AND LIMIT OF INSURANCE 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as:
Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office Form CG 00 01 covering CGL on an 
“occurrence” basis, including liquor liability coverage, products and completed operations, property damage, 
bodily injury and personal & advertising injury with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a 
general aggregate limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this 
project/location (ISO CG 25 03 or 25 04) or the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence 
limit.
Workers’ Compensation:  Workers’ Compensation insurance as required by the State of California, 
with Statutory Limits, and Employer’s Liability Insurance with limits of no less than $2,000,000 per accident 
for bodily injury or disease. (for Applicants with employees).
Property Insurance:  Property insurance against all risks of loss to any tenant improvements or 
betterments, at full replacement cost with no coinsurance penalty provision.
If Permittee maintains broader coverage and/or higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City of 
San Mateo requires and shall be entitled to the broader coverage and/or higher limits maintained. Any 
available insurance proceeds in excess of the specified minimum limits of insurance and coverage shall be 
available to the City of San Mateo.
OTHER INSURANCE PROVISIONS:
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:
Additional Insured Status
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations performed by or on 
behalf of the permittee including materials, parts, or equipment furnished in connection with such work 
or operations.  General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an endorsement to the 
Permittee’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10).
Primary Coverage
For any claims related to this permit, the Permittee’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
coverage at least as broad as ISO CG 20 01 04 13 as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents.  Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by City, its elected or appointed 
officials, employees, or agents shall be excess of the Permittee’s insurance and shall not contribute with 
it.
Liquor Liability
If Permittee will be supplying alcoholic beverages, the general liability insurance shall include liquor liability 
coverage covering the sale of alcohol.  Permittee must have a valid liquor sales license.
548 of 662

--- page 549 ---
Notice of Cancellation
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except with 30 
days’ prior written notice to City.
Waiver of Subrogation
Permittee hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said permittee 
may acquire against City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Permittee agrees to 
obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to affect this waiver of subrogation, but this provision 
applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation endorsement from 
the insurer.
Acceptability of Insurers
Insurance is to be placed with insurers authorized to conduct business in the state with a current A.M. 
Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless otherwise acceptable to the City.
Self-Insured Retentions
Self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City.  At the option of the City, either:  
the permittee shall obtain coverage to reduce or eliminate such self-insured retentions as respects the 
City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents; or the permittee shall provide a 
financial guarantee satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, 
claim administration, and defense expenses.  The policy language shall provide, or be endorsed to 
provide, that the self-insured retention may by satisfied by either the named insured or City.
Verification of Coverage
Permittee shall furnish the City with original Certificates of Insurance including all required amendatory 
endorsements (or copies of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause) 
and a copy of the Declarations and Endorsement Page of the CGL policy listing all policy endorsements 
to City before permitted activities begin.  However, failure to obtain the required documents prior to 
the work beginning shall not waive the permittee’s obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the 
right to require complete, certified copies of all required insurance policies, including endorsements, 
required by these specifications, at any time.  
Special Risks or Circumstances
City reserves the right to modify these requirements at any time, including limits, based on the nature 
of the risk, prior experience, insurer, coverage, or other special circumstances. 
549 of 662

--- page 550 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO-DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SIDEWALK AND PEDESTRIAN MALL OUTDOOR DINING ENCROACHMENT PERMIT APPLICATION 
(Page 1 of 2)
1. Property Owner Contact:  __________________________  
2. Property Owner Phone/email: 
/
3. Describe where the tables and chairs will be placed
Please include the following attachments:
1. Site Plan- Drawn to scale, no smaller than 8.5’’ by 11”. Plans may be drawn by hand.  Sample 
site plans are attached for reference.  
Please include the following information on the site plan:
o
Label the location of the business on diagram and storefront boundaries.
o
For sidewalk outdoor dining only: Show any existing sidewalk obstructions (fire 
hydrants, trees, light poles, bike racks, utility boxes, manholes, newspaper racks, etc.) 
and dimensions between obstructions. 
o
For pedestrian mall outdoor dining only: show the location of the emergency access 
lane.
o
Show the proposed layout of all proposed furnishings (planters, tables, chairs, 
umbrellas, heaters, fencing, etc.) 
o
Photographs of the business frontage
2. Evidence of Commercial General Liability (or Comprehensive) and property damage Insurance 
for one year endorsing the City of San Mateo as additional insured with the City’s address as the 
certificate holder. Insurance must be updated annually or the permit will be revoked. Insurance 
must meet the attached standards or a permit will not be issued.
3. Payment in the amount of $371 in the form of a check, money order or credit card. All credit card 
transactions will incur a 3% non-refundable service charge. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO-DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SIDEWALK AND PEDESTRIAN MALL OUTDOOR DINING ENCROACHMENT PERMIT 
APPLICATION (Page 2 of 2)
COMPLETE AND SUBMIT APPLICATION TO:pwencroachment@cityofsanmateo.org Public 
Works Department City of San Mateo
Business Name 
San Mateo Business License Number 
 
Address 
Contact Phone 
 
City 
Zip 
Alternate Phone 
Email address 
Type of business  
 
Contact Person 
550 of 662

--- page 551 ---
330 W. 20the Avenue San Mateo, CA 94403
QUESTIONS MAY BE ANSWERED BY EMAILING OR CALLING:
jchen@cityofsanmateo.org or 650 522.7009.
Once the encroachment permit is issued, the permittee must notify the Public Works 
inspector 72 hours prior to the initial start of work. Contact pwinspection@cityofsanmateo.org 
650-522-7000 Ext. 6900 to schedule an inspection.
1.
I 
[insert name] hereby affirm that I 
have notified my landlord that I will be placing table and chairs in the pedestrian mall 
and have confirmed that I am not prohibited by any lease or rental agreement from 
placing furnishings in front of my place of business and I agree to abide by the 
conditions and restrictions of Municipal Code Chapter 17.08 and 27.87.
2.
I agree to abide by and the terms and conditions attached to the encroachment permit 
and all other applicable laws and regulations.
3.
I agree to hold harmless and indemnify the City of San Mateo (CITY), its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, 
liability, damage, and expense arising out of Applicant’s activity, except for those 
claims arising out of CITY’s sole negligence or willful misconduct. I agree to defend 
CITY, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents against any such 
claims.
Signature of Applicant I understand and agree to comply with all conditions of this application for 
a Sidewalk and Pedestrian Mall Outdoor Dining encroachment permit for outdoor restaurant seating 
in accordance with the City of San Mateo Municipal Code Chapters 17.08 and 27.87 and other local, 
state and federal laws governing accessibility as they apply to this permit.
Signature of Authorized Applicant
Date
Reviewed and approved by Public Works staff
Reviewed and approved by Public Works 
Inspector
Name
Date
Name
Date
551 of 662

--- page 552 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  26
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 22-5881
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Revenue Enhancement – Follow-up Discussion
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction to staff whether to move forward with a revenue enhancement community survey for real property 
transfer tax and/or a sales tax ballot measure.
BACKGROUND:
On October 4, 2021, the City Council held a study session to evaluate revenue enhancement options, including real 
property transfer tax, utility users’ tax, business tax, and sales tax. The Council directed staff to conduct a statistically-
significant survey of likely voters to evaluate support for a sales tax (transactions and use tax) or real property transfer tax 
(RPTT) measure. After a competitive bid process, True North Research has been selected to conduct the survey should the 
City wish to continue. Since that time, the City’s financial picture has been updated and staff is seeking direction on how to 
proceed. 
As reported in the mid-year budget update on January 18, 2022, the City’s General Fund is projected to have a favorable 
budget variance for the 2021-22 fiscal year. However, the City is anticipating to draw down on the Rainy Day Reserve in 
the coming years and continues to have significant capital improvement needs. The community and Council have also 
identified several key priorities that require additional resources.
Budget Picture
The Council originally considered revenue enhancement measures at a time when the City’s General Fund Long-Term 
Financial Plan was expected to be severely impacted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, including a 90% reduction in 
the City's transient occupancy tax (TOT) and a 10% reduction in sales tax revenues. 
In response to the immediate and severe financial impact of the pandemic, the City implemented its Fiscal Sustainability 
Plan to reduce the cost of General Fund operations, which principally included strategic and permanent elimination of $1.0 
million in vacant positions and $3.0 million in employee compensation concessions. The City also received $19.27 million in 
one-time federal stimulus funds from the American Rescue Plan Act, and in November 2020 voters approved increasing 
the City’s hotel TOT rate by 2%. However, as a result of the impact of the pandemic on business travel, which is the 
primary component of the City’s TOT base, the additional revenue anticipated from the TOT rate increase has not come to 
fruition.
As more fully described in the mid-year budget update on January 18, 2022, the City’s current 2021-22 fiscal year General 
Fund is expected to end with $155.2 million in revenues and $146.6 million in expenditures. The General Fund Long-term 
Financial Plan indicates the City will need to draw down on Rainy Day Reserve over the next 4 years, however, over the 
next 10 years, the General Fund is projected to have enough resources to maintain core services at existing levels and for 
552 of 662

--- page 553 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the Rainy Day Reserve to be restored to pre-pandemic levels by 2032.
Funding Needs
While the General Fund is expected to be able to maintain existing service levels, there are a number of capital 
improvements and priorities that will require additional resources. Estimates for existing capital needs as well as two 
recently completed efforts highlight where additional resources are needed that potential revenue enhancement ballot 
measures could serve as a funding source. This also includes the City Council’s 2022-23 Strategic Plan and the 2022 
Community Opinion Survey, which were presented to Council on March 7, 2022.
In the statistically-significant community survey, residents identified several key City services and priorities including: parks 
and open space areas; enhancing sustainability efforts in planning for the future; improving infrastructure including streets 
and roads; providing more affordable housing; and addressing traffic congestion. 
The following council objectives will also require significant additional resources:

Marina Library structural issues

Meet the 100% trash reduction mandate

Implement a Green Fleet by 2030

Develop funding strategy for existing infrastructure plans 

Implement bicycle and pedestrian projects and programs that address safety and align with adopted City plans
Below are preliminary estimates (not accounting for inflation) for several capital and priority projects that have also been 
identified and for which there aren’t sufficient resources:

Recreation Facilities Strategic Plan – $90 million 

Road maintenance to sufficiently fund paving program and prevent future failed streets – $1 to $2 million annually
General Tax Revenue Enhancement Options
General tax measures require a simple majority of voter approval and must be placed on a ballot during a regular election, 
meaning the next opportunities are either November 2022 or November 2024. As a general tax, the revenue would not be 
tied to specific projects, however, it would go into the City’s General Fund, which is used to provide a range of services and 
improvements. Depending on Council direction, the City would consider placing one of the following two options on a 
ballot: 
Sales Tax – 1/4% Cent Increase
The City’s 1/4% transactions and use tax was first approved by San Mateo voters in 2009 via Measure L, which was set to 
expire in March 2018. In November 2015, voters overwhelmingly approved Measure S, which extended the 1/4% 
transactions and use tax through March 2048. The table below lists every component that constitutes the total sales tax 
rate of 9.625% in the City of San Mateo. State law imposes a 2% limit for add-on sales taxes above the State base sales tax 
rate, which leaves 0.25% in remaining add-on sales tax capacity.
Entity
Description
Tax Rate %
Expiration Year
Subject to 
2% Limit
State of California
State Base Sales Tax
                      6.000 
City of San Mateo
Bradley-Burns
                      1.000 
County of San Mateo
Local Transportation Fund
                      0.250 
State Base Sales Tax Rate
                      7.250 
County of San Mateo
Measure K
                      0.500 
2043
Yes
San Mateo County Transit District
Measure A
                      0.500 
2033
Yes
San Mateo County Transportation Authority
Measure A
                      0.500 
2023
Yes
San Mateo County Transit District
Measure W
                      0.500 
2049
No
Caltrain
Measure RR
                      0.013 
2050
No
City of San Mateo
Measure S
                      0.250 
2048
Yes
                      9.625 
                      1.750 Remaining add on % capacity
0.25
Total Sales Tax Rate
Total add on sales tax subject to the 2% limit
553 of 662

--- page 554 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
The chart below compares the total sales tax rate for every municipality in San Mateo County:
9.875%
• Belmont
• Daly City
• East Palo Alto
• Redwood City
• South San Francisco
9.625%
• Burlingame
• San Mateo
9.375%
• Atherton
• Brisbane
• Colma
• Foster City
• Half Moon Bay
• Hillsborough
• Menlo Park
• Millbrae
• Pacifica
• Portola Valley
• San Carlos
• Woodside
Based on the latest projections for Measure S from the City’s sales tax consultant, a successful new 1/4% cent transactions 
and use tax ballot measure would generate approximately $6.5 million to $7.0 million in revenues per fiscal year.
Changes to Real Property Transfer Tax 
As a charter city, San Mateo has an existing voter-approved real property transfer tax (RPTT) rate of 0.5% that applies to 
residential and commercial properties. This tax is only paid upon transfer or sale of a property, and in residential sales is 
customarily split between a buyer and seller.
As noted during the study session in October 2021, other charter cities in the Bay Area, including San Francisco, Berkeley, 
Oakland, Richmond, and San Jose have recently shifted from a flat rate to a tiered structure. If the City were to shift to the 
tiered structure, it could generate between approximately $5.6 million to $6.8 million in additional revenues per fiscal year 
based on the transactions that were subject to the City’s RPTT in 2020-21.
It is important to note that for properties at the lower tier, which constitute the majority of total sales, a new tiered 
system would not affect RPTT rates. According to the San Mateo County Association of Realtors, in 2021, in the City of San 
Mateo, the median sale price of a single-family home and of a condo was $1.84 million and $880,000, respectively. 
Below are examples of tiered rate structures and estimates on what they could generate:
554 of 662

--- page 555 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
From
To
Number of Transactions
Total Transactions
% of Total TransactionsRPTT % Rat Amount Received in 2020-21 RPTT $ with scenario
Difference
-
$                 
2,000,000
$  
1009
1274
79.2%
0.50%
5,900,809
$                  
5,900,809
$        
-
$               
2,000,000
$  
5,000,000
$  
238
1274
18.7%
0.75%
3,208,776
$                  
4,813,164
$        
1,604,388
$
5,000,000
$  
10,000,000
$
11
1274
0.9%
1.00%
393,313
$                     
786,625
$           
393,313
$   
10,000,000
$
6
1274
0.5%
1.50%
2,410,750
$                  
7,232,250
$        
4,821,500
$
Total
11,913,647
$                
18,732,848
$      
6,819,201
$
From
To
Number of Transactions
Total Transactions
% of Total TransactionsRPTT % Rat Amount Received in 2020-21 RPTT $ with scenario
Difference
-
$                 
2,500,000
$  
1136
1274
89.2%
0.50%
7,305,975
$                  
7,305,975
$        
-
$               
2,500,000
$  
5,000,000
$  
110
1274
8.6%
0.75%
1,803,610
$                  
2,705,415
$        
901,805
$   
5,000,000
$  
10,000,000
$
11
1274
0.9%
1.00%
393,313
$                     
786,625
$           
393,313
$   
10,000,000
$
6
1274
0.5%
1.50%
2,410,750
$                  
7,232,250
$        
4,821,500
$
Total
11,913,647
$                
18,030,265
$      
6,116,618
$
From
To
Number of Transactions
Total Transactions
% of Total TransactionsRPTT % Rat Amount Received in 2020-21 RPTT $ with scenario
Difference
-
$                 
3,000,000
$  
1203
1274
94.4%
0.50%
8,196,010
$                  
8,196,010
$        
-
$               
3,000,000
$  
5,000,000
$  
51
1274
4.0%
0.75%
913,575
$                     
1,370,363
$        
456,788
$   
5,000,000
$  
10,000,000
$
11
1274
0.9%
1.00%
393,313
$                     
786,625
$           
393,313
$   
10,000,000
$
6
1274
0.5%
1.50%
2,410,750
$                  
7,232,250
$        
4,821,500
$
Total
11,913,647
$                
17,585,247
$      
5,671,600
$
Scenario 1: First Tier <$2M
Scenario 2: First Tier <$2.5M
Scenario 3: First Tier <$3.0M
BUDGET IMPACT:
If the City Council were to forgo a revenue enhancement community survey, the General Fund would save $27,900 in cost. 
Placing any measure on the ballot is expected to cost roughly $100,000 including the survey, and related communications 
and elections expenses.
If a 1/4% transactions and use tax was ultimately approved by the City Council and San Mateo voters, it would generate 
between $6.5 million to $7.0 million in additional General Fund revenue. If an RPTT tiered structure was ultimately 
approved, it would generate between $5.6 million to $6.8 million in additional General Fund revenue. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This revenue enhancement discussion is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
555 of 662

--- page 556 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  27
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-5650
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
Stormwater Funding – Survey Findings
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an update on the Stormwater Funding Survey findings and staff recommendations for implementation of a 
Stormwater Fee; and provide direction and related input.
BACKGROUND:
Managing the City’s stormwater system consists of a wide range of efforts including the operation and maintenance 
(O&M) of the Marina Lagoon and other creeks, storm drains, and pump stations, as well as the planning and 
implementation of capital improvement projects, trash management activities, and regulatory compliance with the 
Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit. The overall funding needs to effectively manage the City’s stormwater system are 
greater than what is currently available from the General Fund. 
At the February 2021 Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (SIC) meeting, staff presented the draft Stormwater 
Funding Analysis Report.  The Stormwater Funding Analysis Report, along with feedback from the SIC, were presented to 
the City Council during the May 17, 2021 study session.  Council directed staff to proceed to the next steps towards 
implementing a potential stormwater fee.  On August 16, 2021, City Council approved a contract amendment with the 
consultant, SCI Consulting Group, that included tasks for a public opinion survey, development of a Fee Report, public 
outreach, and Proposition 218 ballot process.  The Stormwater Survey was completed in November 2021 and presented to 
the SIC March 9, 2022. This report presents a review of stormwater activities, Stormwater Funding Analysis, Stormwater 
Survey results, and takeaways from the SIC.
Overview of Storm System Activities: 
Routine operation and maintenance activities for storm sewers includes cleaning and repairs of curbs, inlets, catch basins, 
lateral and main lines, outfalls, and nine stormwater pump stations. The City has four main creeks that convey water 
towards the bay and/or the Marina Lagoon: San Mateo Creek, Leslie Creek, Borel Creek, and Laurel Creek. Creek 
maintenance includes routine removal of nuisance vegetation, bank stabilization, outfall maintenance, and other related 
activities.  Storm system capital improvement projects include those from the 2018 Marina Lagoon Dredging Assessment, 
the Trash Load Reduction Plan, a Storm Drain Condition Analysis, a Storm Drain Master Plan update, creek maintenance 
permitting efforts, and several other projects.
Marina Lagoon is an amenity for the entire City and beyond. Managing the lagoon as a flood control basin as its primary 
purpose includes maintaining operating levels, water exchange rates, the pump station, and other infrastructure. 
Management also includes removal of nuisance aquatic plant control, water quality protection, wildlife management, 
permit compliance, and regulation of encroachments such as private docks, beaches, banks, and dredging.
556 of 662

--- page 557 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Stormwater Funding Analysis and Survey:
The overall funding needs to effectively manage the City’s stormwater system are greater than what is currently available 
from the General Fund, which is approximately $3 million annually for general stormwater program operations and 
maintenance.  The financial analysis completed in 2021 identified the following additional needs and bring the total 
stormwater needs to $8.4M annually: 

$625,000 for additional O&M; 

$1.9 million for Marina Lagoon dredging (annualized life-cycle costs derived from estimated dredging costs of as 
much as $80 million); and

$2.9 million for other capital projects ($68 million amortized over 30 years).  
The first step was conducting a public opinion survey on stormwater fees, which has been completed.  The surveys were 
conducted by mail to mimic the balloting process.  Surveys were sent to property owners who were targeted through a 
stratified random selection process.  The survey tested rates and issues for (1) a city-wide stormwater fee for all services 
included in the Stormwater Funding Analysis Report and (2) a city-wide benefit assessment focused solely on Marina 
Lagoon improvements such as dredging.  This resulted in two separate, yet simultaneous surveys.
For the city-wide stormwater fee, the Stormwater Funding Analysis Report determined annual fees ranging from $120 to 
$192 and those two rates were tested in the survey.  For the Marina Lagoon survey, the Stormwater Funding Analysis 
Report identified annual assessment rates of $10 for most of the City and $50 or $150 for properties within walking 
distance or fronting the Marina Lagoon, respectively.  This rate structure was predicted to only raise approximately 
$500,000 annually toward a total need of $1.9 million.  Therefore, a second, larger rate range of $23 to $350 per year was 
also tested, although estimated revenues of $1.2 million would still be less than the $1.9 million needed annually. 
The surveys were accompanied by supplemental information and also included questions about projects and issues that 
might affect how a voter would view a ballot initiative. Respondents were asked whether a project or issue would cause 
them to change their support of the initiative.  The surveys and information were provided in both English and Spanish and 
can be referenced in Attachment 1. 
Survey Results
A total of 10,000 surveys were mailed in November 2021 (5,000 each for Stormwater and the Marina Lagoon), and 1,550 
were returned in time to be included in the results. The return rate of 15.5% is typical for mailed surveys and could be 
considered better than average considering it was the lead-up time for the holidays.
The results showed neutral support for the Stormwater fee and marginal support for the Marina Lagoon assessment. The 
Stormwater Fee had 49.9% support at the $120/year level, and 46.8% support at the $192/year level.  The Marina Lagoon 
assessment had 54.6% support at the $10/year level, and 51.6% support at the $23/year level.  Either type of funding 
initiative would require a simple 50% majority. The margins of error on these results were 3.4% and 3.6%, respectively.  
Respondents were more likely to support a city-wide Stormwater Fee that 1) protects the City from local street and 
property flooding by properly maintaining and operating its aging storm drainage infrastructure, 2) removes trash and 
pollution from San Francisco Bay and local creeks, and 3) has dedicated funds for stormwater and could not be taken away 
by the State, County, or even the City Council.
Conversely, respondents were less likely to support a city-wide Stormwater Fee that would specifically fund Marina Lagoon 
issues such as 1) dredging and other stormwater improvements 2) preventing unwanted vegetation and other pollutants, 
and 3) as a recreational amenity and flood control facility.
The most supported projects and issues related to the Marina Lagoon Assessment survey included 1) removing trash and 
pollution to San Francisco Bay and local creeks 2) providing flood control capacity to protect streets and properties from 
local flooding, 3) ensuring safe, clean, healthy water in creeks and San Francisco Bay for future generations, and 4) 
dedicated funds for stormwater that could not be taken away by the State, County, or even the City Council. Respondents 
557 of 662

--- page 558 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
were less likely to support a Marina Lagoon Assessment that would only pay for some of the dredging and may not be 
enough to fully fund Lagoon dredging, likely requiring a separate stormwater fee.
Analysis
While the support levels for the Marina Lagoon Assessment were slightly greater than for a Stormwater Fee, the lower 
revenue potential from the assessment combined with the strong negative argument of insufficient funding to complete 
identified improvements suggested that a Marina Lagoon-centric assessment would not be worth pursuing at this time.
The Stormwater Fee results are slightly less than 50% at the $120/year rate.  The consultant typically recommends moving 
forward on an initiative only when the support level minus the margin of error is at least 50%, which was not met. 
However, a lesser rate of under $100/year, or approximately $8/month may very well have enough support to pass.  The 
projects and issues that resonate with the community were well rounded (infrastructure, environmental and fiscal 
prudence), which forms a solid basis for an outreach and education program.
Summary of Input from Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
Staff presented the survey results to the SIC on March 9, 2022.  The SIC were consistently supportive of proceeding with 
implementation of a robust public outreach and education program, developing a fee report, and pursuing the Stormwater 
Fee at a level less than $100/year.  The SIC also provided feedback on future outreach strategies.  Other input included 
recommendations to explore partnerships with Foster City for continued funding of Marina Lagoon, and to consider 
enhancing pedestrian walkways surrounding the lagoon.
Recommendations
Staff is recommending the following for consideration and is requesting Council feedback and direction on proceeding with 
implementation.

Conducting a robust public outreach and education program that would take place over a six-to-nine month 
period;

Developing a Fee Report that illustrates the services and improvements that would be funded at $8/month;

Pursuing the Stormwater Fee at a level less than $100/year (approximately $8/month); and

Beginning the Proposition 218 ballot process after the outreach and education program concludes.
The timing for commencing the outreach and education program will depend on whether Council provides direction to put 
a general tax measure on the ballot in 2022, which is also a consideration at the March 21st Council meeting.  Should 
Council opt to pursue a general tax measure, which would begin with polling a sampling of voters to gauge support levels, 
staff recommends holding off on starting the outreach and education program until the conclusion of that process.  
Depending on the results of the stormwater fee process, staff can further consider a Marina Lagoon Assessment in the 
future.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact due to the presentation of this information item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational update is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Stormwater Survey Items
558 of 662

--- page 559 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Sarah Scheidt, Regulatory Compliance Manager, Public Works Engineering Division 
sscheidt@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7385
559 of 662

--- page 560 ---
Why Am I Receiving This Survey?
Investing in Local Infrastructure
The City of San Mateo operates and maintains 
various  stormwater  facilities  and performs 
activities necessary to prevent ﬂ ooding, preserve 
surface water quality, enhance recreational 
activities, and ensure compliance with all legal 
requirements. Local facilities include: Marina 
Lagoon and other creeks and channels; pipes 
and pumping systems; and trash capture 
devices. Activities include: operations and 
maintenance; capital improvements and master 
planning; environmental compliance; and system 
management and administration.
See Reverse Side for More Information    
 CITY OF SAN MATEO
Information Fact Sheet
Clean Creeks and Flood Protection Initiative
Like most cities across the Nation, San Mateo 
viewed their storm drainage system as a simple 
conveyance for  rain runoﬀ .  But over the past 
30 years, environmental health and safety 
requirements  have  brought  stormwater  programs 
on par with other municipal utilities like water and 
sewer systems. And like those utilities, a dedicated 
and sustainable revenue stream is the most fair 
and reliable way to fund the City’s investment into 
this critical infrastructure. 
The City of San Mateo is considering proposing 
a funding measure to help pay for the critical 
needs in managing the stormwater facilities, and 
seeks input from local property owners on your 
priorities for stormwater activities.  
Current operations are estimated at $3.0 million 
per year.  However, in order to sustainability fund 
the Stormwater Program and meet adequate levels 
of service an additional $5.4 million is needed per 
year. This is includes an additional $0.6 million 
for additional operations and maintenance, $1.9 
million for Marina Lagoon dredging, and $2.9 
million for other important capital projects and 
programs.
Long-Term Financial Sustainability
Funds from this local funding measure would 
be used to continue to protect our streets from 
local ﬂ ooding, ensure clean water for enjoyment, 
restore and maintain Marina Lagoon, and protect 
this critical City feature for current and future 
generations.
Please read the following information, then 
complete the enclosed survey and return it in 
the postage paid envelope as soon as possible. 
Your answers will help guide our eﬀ orts towards 
protecting the City and its residents from local 
ﬂ ooding and protecting water quality. 
Water levels in the south end of the Lagoon have decreased dramatically 
due to silt deposits, resulting in loss of navigable water depth for boating, 
loss of wildlife habitat, and decreased stormwater retention capacity greatly 
reducing the City’s ﬂ ood control capacity. 
To fund the Stormwater Program in sustainable 
manner, a separate, dedicated revenue stream 
is recommended that would no longer compete 
with other General Fund priorities and would be 
shared by property owners in a fairer way. It is 
estimated a monthly fee between $10 and $16 for 
the average home would fund this program.
The City’s Stormwater Program is funded largely 
from the City’s General Fund where it must 
compete with other community priorities such as 
public safety, roads, and parks.  Due to this, and the 
limited nature of the General Fund, the Stormwater 
Program has been operating at a minimum level 
of service with few investments in critical projects 
aimed at reducing ﬂ ood risks and performing pro-
active maintenance on Marina Lagoon. 
560 of 662

--- page 561 ---
Marina Lagoon - Gem of the City
Other System Deﬁ ciencies
City of San Mateo - Clean Creeks and Flood Protection Initiative 
               Information Fact Sheet 
Stormwater Improvement Plan    
Protecting Property
Sustainable Stormdrains
Protecting the Bay
The City’s stormwater system is comprised of 
130 miles of storm drains, 20 miles of open creeks 
and drainage channels, 1 ﬂ ood control lagoon,  9 
pumping stations, and a 3 mile bayfront levee. 
Routine operation and maintenance activities 
include cleaning and repairs of curbs, inlets, catch 
basins, lateral and main lines, and outfalls. Various 
factors, such as clogged catch basins or pipes that 
do not adequately convey standard rainwater 
ﬂ ow, cause ﬂ ooding in various areas throughout 
the City, making it diﬃ  cult for pedestrians, 
bicycles, motorcycles, cars, and emergency 
vehicles to navigate.
Routine Operations
Among the stormwater management activities 
in the City of San Mateo, one has emerged as 
paramount: stewardship of Marina Lagoon. 
As the receiving body of most of the City’s 
stormwater ﬂ ows, the Lagoon has an important 
drainage role.  In addition, it plays a large role as a 
recreational amenity for swimming, boating, and 
other water activities. However, both the drainage 
and recreational aspects are being degraded due 
to the accumulation of silt and sediment that cause 
navigation and health problems. An analysis 
that showed that dredging Marina Lagoon to its 
original state would cost as much as $85 million 
– more than all other stormwater capital needs 
combined. If left unatt ended, Marina Lagoon 
would continue to degrade and cease to be a 
recreational amenity - the Gem of the City.
To respond online, or para responder en español, visit www.inputlocal.com and enter code found on front of survey
City engineers and maintenance crews have 
eﬀ ectively maintained our stormwater system 
on a limited budget for many years.  However, 
much of the system is no over 50 years old and 
reaching the end of its design life. The areas where 
improvements need to be made include segments 
of 16th Avenue, 9th Avenue, Laurel Creek, Coyote 
Point, Detroit Drive as well as 13 high priority 
projects are aimed at reducing ﬂ ooding throughout 
the City.
561 of 662

--- page 562 ---
¿Por qué recibo esta encuesta? 
Inversión en infraestructura local 
La ciudad de San Mateo está considerando proponer 
una medida de financiación para ayudar a pagar las 
necesidades fundamentales en el control de las 
instalaciones de desagüe pluvial, y busca conocer la 
opinión de los propietarios locales sobre las 
prioridades en actividades de este servicio. 
Lea la siguiente información, complete la encuesta 
adjunta y envíela dentro de un sobre con franqueo 
pago lo antes posible. Sus respuestas nos ayudarán a 
enfocar los esfuerzos hacia la conservación de la 
calidad del agua y la protección de la ciudad y sus 
residentes contra las inundaciones locales. 
Sustentabilidad financiera a largo plazo El 
Programa 
de 
desagüe 
pluvial 
de 
la 
ciudad 
(Stormwater Program) está financiado, en gran parte, 
por el Fondo general de la ciudad, donde debe 
competir con otras prioridades de la comunidad, 
como la seguridad, carreteras y parque públicos. Por 
lo tanto, y debido a la naturaleza limitada del fondo 
general, este programa ha operado a un nivel de 
servicio mínimo, con pocas inversiones en proyectos 
esenciales dirigidos a la reducción de riesgos por 
inundación y al mantenimiento proactivo de Marina 
Lagoon. 
Se calcula que las operaciones actuales utilizan 
$3 000 000 por año. Sin embargo, se necesita un 
adicional de $5 400 000 por año para financiar el 
programa de manera sustentable y cumplir los niveles 
adecuados de servicio. Esto incluye un adicional de 
$600 000 
para 
operaciones 
y 
mantenimiento 
complementarios, $1 900 000 para el dragado de 
Marina Lagoon y $2 900 000 para otros proyectos de 
capital y programas importantes. 
 
Para financiar el programa de desagüe pluvial de 
forma sustentable, se recomienda una fuente de 
ingresos independiente y específica que no compita 
con otras prioridades del fondo general y capte el 
interés de los propietarios de una manera más 
razonable. Se calcula que una cuota mensual de entre 
$10 y $16 por hogar promedio podría financiar el 
programa. 
La ciudad de San Mateo opera y mantiene distintas 
instalaciones de desagüe pluvial y realiza acciones 
necesarias para evitar inundaciones, conservar la 
calidad del agua superficial, fomentar las actividades 
recreativas y asegurar el cumplimiento de todos los 
requisitos legales. Las instalaciones locales son: Marina 
Lagoon y otros arroyos y canales; tuberías y sistemas 
de bombeo; y dispositivos de recolección de basura. 
Las acciones que se llevan a cabo son: operaciones y 
mantenimiento; mejoras del capital y planificación 
principal; cumplimiento de las medidas ecológicas; y 
administración del sistema. 
Como la mayoría de las ciudades del país, San Mateo 
consideraba al sistema de desagüe pluvial un simple 
medio de transporte para el escurrimiento del agua de 
lluvia. No obstante, durante los últimos 30 años, las 
necesidades de seguridad e higiene ambiental han 
puesto a los programas de aguas pluviales a la par de 
otros servicios municipales como los sistemas de agua 
corriente y alcantarillado.  Al igual que estos servicios, 
la implementación de una fuente de ingresos específica 
y sustentable es la forma más justa y confiable de 
financiar 
la 
inversión 
de 
la 
ciudad 
en 
esta 
infraestructura fundamental. 
Los fondos de esta medida de financiación se 
destinarían a continuar con la protección de nuestras 
calles contra las inundaciones, garantizar agua limpia 
para la recreación, restaurar y mantener Marina 
Lagoon y proteger este elemento esencial de la ciudad 
para las generaciones actuales y futuras. 
 
Los niveles de agua en el extremo sur de Marina Lagoon se han reducido drásticamente 
debido a los depósitos de lodo, lo cual llevó a la pérdida de profundidad del agua de 
navegación, a la pérdida de hábitats de la fauna y a la reducción de la capacidad de 
retención de aguas pluviales, por lo que se redujo también la capacidad de control de las 
inundaciones de la ciudad. 
 
 
Consulte el reverso para obtener más información 
CIUDAD DE SAN MATEO 
Iniciativa de arroyos limpios y protección contra inundaciones 
Ficha informativa 
562 of 662

--- page 563 ---
Ciudad de San Mateo - Iniciativa de arroyos limpios y protección contra inundaciones 
Ficha informativa 
 
 
Marina Lagoon - La joya de la ciudad Entre 
las actividades de administración de las aguas 
pluviales en la ciudad de San Mateo, una de ellas 
cobró especial importancia: la administración de 
Marina Lagoon. La laguna tiene una importante 
función en el desagüe de la ciudad, ya que se trata del 
cuerpo receptor del caudal de la mayor parte de las 
aguas pluviales. Además, cumple un rol importante 
como servicio recreativo donde se puede realizar 
natación, navegación y otras actividades acuáticas. 
Sin embargo,  tanto su función de drenaje como su 
función recreativa están deteriorándose debido a la 
acumulación de lodo y sedimento que causan 
problemas en la salud y la navegación. Según un 
estudio, dragar Marina Lagoon para recuperar su 
estado original costaría hasta $85 000 000,  
más que todo el capital que se necesita para otros 
servicios de desagüe pluvial. Si no se atiende esta 
cuestión, la laguna continuará deteriorándose hasta 
dejar de ser un espacio recreativo, la joya de la 
ciudad. 
 
 
Operaciones de rutina 
El sistema de aguas pluviales de la ciudad se 
compone de 209 kilómetros de desagües pluviales, 32 
kilómetros de arroyos y canales de desagüe abiertos, 
1 laguna para el control de inundaciones, 9 estaciones 
de bombeo y un dique de 3 millas en la bahía. Las 
actividades rutinarias de operación y mantenimiento 
incluyen la limpieza y reparación de cunetas, tomas 
de entrada, sumideros, líneas principales y laterales y 
emisarios. Las inundaciones se generan en distintas 
zonas de la ciudad debido a varios factores, como 
sumideros tapados o tuberías que no cumplen con la 
capacidad de caudal de agua necesaria, lo que 
dificulta la circulación de peatones, bicicletas, 
motocicletas, automóviles y vehículos de emergencia. 
 
Otras fallas del sistema 
Los equipos de mantenimiento e ingenieros de la 
ciudad han logrado mantener nuestro sistema de 
desagüe pluvial de forma eficaz con un presupuesto 
escaso durante muchos años. No obstante, gran parte 
del sistema no tiene más de 50 años y ya está 
alcanzando el límite de vida útil. Las zonas donde se 
necesitan arreglos y mejoras son algunos tramos de la 
16th Avenue, 9th Avenue, Laurel Creek y Coyote 
Point y Detroit Drive. Además, se cuenta con 13 
proyectos de prioridad alta que apuntan a la 
reducción de las inundaciones en la ciudad. 
 
 
  Protección de la propiedad 
Desagües pluviales sustentables 
Protección de la bahía  
 
 Si desea responder en línea o en español, visite www.inputlocal.com e ingrese el código que se encuentra en el frente de la 
encuesta  
Plan para mejorar el desagüe 
563 of 662

--- page 564 ---
Please use the space below to write any reasons why you support or oppose this proposed measure.  Also, please describe which 
issues are most important to you:
This survey has been mailed to a random sample of residents and business owners in the City of San Mateo to gather information and 
input. This information will help the City make decisions about funding for future stormwater management activities. Please complete 
and return this survey as soon as possible. You may take the survey online or mail the completed survey below in the postage-prepaid 
return envelope provided. Please return it by November 26, 2021. 
       Detach Here                                                  Fill in Lower Portion, Detach at this Line, and Mail Back in Return Envelope                                                                     Detach Here
Deﬁ nitely YES 
Probably YES  
Probably NO  
Deﬁ nitely NO
Residents and business owners within San Mateo may be asked to vote on a 
local ballot measure as follows.  Please indicate your level of support.
CITY OF SAN MATEO OFFICIAL SURVEY
Clean Creeks & Flood Protection Initiative
Now, please read the following statements regarding the proposed Clean Creeks and Flood Protection Initiative ballot 
measure.  For each statement, please indicate whether they make you more or less likely to support the measure:
 
Much  Somewhat 
 
Somewhat Much
       More        More 
No 
Less 
Less
 
Likely 
Likely Impact Likely 
Likely
 
Survey Instructions:
1) Read each question listed below. 
2) Fill in the circle for your response.  Please use a 
pen and completely fill in the circle.
3) Detach the bottom portion of this sheet 
containing your answers.
4) Place the bottom portion of this sheet in the 
return envelope and mail (no postage needed).
This survey is being conducted by an independent third party on behalf of the City. All informaƟ on obtained through this process will remain conﬁ denƟ al and only shared with the City in aggregate form.
In order to protect our streets and properties from local ﬂ ooding, and ensure clean water for enjoyment                                                       
of Marina Lagoon, San Francisco Bay and our local creeks and channels by:
• Maintaining, cleaning, repairing, rehabilitating and operating our stormwater infrastructure;
• Keeping trash and other pollutants from ﬂ owing into areas where it can interfere with recreation and harm habitat; 
• Restoring Marina Lagoon to its original boating depth and managing vegetation growth and other water quality issues.
would you support a monthly fee on each property(ies) in the amount of ___________?
2. 
This measure would help protect the City of San Mateo from local street and property ﬂ ooding     
by properly maintaining and operating its aging storm drainage infrastructure .....................................
3.   This measure would pay for dredging of Marina Lagoon as well as other stormwater improvements
4.  
This measure would pay for the maintenance of trash capture devices in storm drains which 
remove trash and pollution before they enter the Bay and our local creeks and channels .................
5. 
The City plans to address its drainage and water quality challenges in ways that are environmentally 
sustainable, including green infrastructure, to protect Marina Lagoon ........................................................
6. 
This measure would be a critical ﬁ rst step in combating the effects of climate change such as sea 
level rise and more frequent and intense storms....................................................................................... 
7. 
This measure would fund high-priority capital projects designed to protect against local ﬂ ooding 
and improve water quality .............................................................................................................................
8. 
This measure would be fully dedicated to stormwater services, and cannot be used for any other 
reason by the City Council or taken away by county or state government  ...........................................
9. 
This measure would help ensure recreation such as swimming, boating, and other water activities 
would be safe from unwanted vegetation and other pollutants ...............................................................
10.   This measure would also fund Marina Lagoon as a recreational amenity that also serves as a ﬂ ood 
control facility ..................................................................................................................................................
11. Creating a dedicated, sustainable funding source is the best way to ensure clean water and avoid 
local ﬂ ooding......................................................................................................................................
SMSW
To complete this survey online please do one of the following:
• visit www.inputlocal.com, enter: SURVEY NAME “SANMATEOSW”, SURVEY CODE ________, or
• scan the QR CODE on the right with your phone and follow the instructions.
1.
SMSW
ownerid
564 of 662

--- page 565 ---
Utilice el siguiente espacio para escribir cualquier razón que tenga para apoyar u oponerse a la propuesta. Además, puede explicar 
cualquier asunto que le parezca relevante:
Se envió por correo esta encuesta, a residentes y propietarios de negocios de la ciudad de San Mateo para obtener información y 
comentarios. Esta información ayudará a la ciudad a tomar decisiones sobre la financiación de las futuras actividades de administración 
de las aguas pluviales. Complete y envíe esta encuesta lo antes posible. Puede realizarla en línea o enviarla por correo en el sobre de 
respuesta pagado que recibió. Envíela antes del 26 de Noviembre de 2021.
       Corte aqui                                                 Cmplete la parte interior, corte en esta linea y enviela por correo en el sobre                                                                     Corte aqui
Deﬁ nitivamente SÍ 
Probablemente SÍ 
Probablemente NO Deﬁ nitivamente NO
Se les puede pedir a los residentes y propietarios de negocios de San Mateo que voten en una medida 
electoral local de la siguiente manera. Indique su nivel de apoyo.
ENCUESTA OFICIAL DE LA CIUDAD DE SAN MATEO
Lea las siguientes afirmaciones con respecto a la propuesta de ley sobre la iniciativa de arroyos limpios y protección contra 
inundaciones En cada afirmación indique que tan probable es que apoye la propuesta:
   Más        Un poco  No        Un poco   Menos
   probable más         inﬂ uye  menos     probable 
                  probable              probable
 
Instrucciones para la encuesta:
1) Lea atentamente las preguntas enumeradas más 
abajo.
2) Marque el círculo con su respuesta. Utilice un 
bolígrafo y rellene todo el círculo.
3) Corte la parte inferior de esta hoja que contiene sus 
respuestas.
4) Coloque la parte que cortó dentro del sobre que 
enviará y llévelo al correo (no page la estampilla).
Esta encuesta la gesƟ ona un tercero imparcial en nombre de la ciudad. Toda la información que se obtenga a través de este proceso será conﬁ dencial y solo se comparƟ rá con la ciudad de forma conjunta.
A ﬁ n de proteger nuestras calles y propiedades de las inundaciones locales, así como de garantizar agua limpia 
para disfrutar Marina Lagoon, la bahía de San Francisco y nuestros arroyos y canales locales mediante lo siguiente:
2. Esta medida ayudaría a proteger a la ciudad de San Mateo de inundaciones en sus calles y 
propiedades, ya que mantendría y administraría la infraestructura de alcantarillado pluvial de 
manera adecuada ......................................................................................................................................
3.   Esta medida ayudaría a pagar el dragado de Marina Lagoon y a hacer otras mejoras relacionadas 
con las aguas pluviales  ............................................................................................................................
4.  Esta medida cubriría los gastos de mantenimiento de los dispositivos de ﬁ ltrado de basura en las 
alcantarillas pluviales, que eliminan la basura y los contaminantes antes de que ingresen a la bahía 
y a nuestros arroyos y canales locales ....................................................................................................
5. Para proteger Marina Lagoon, la ciudad abordará las diﬁ cultades del desagüe y la calidad del agua 
de manera sustentable para el medio ambiente, incluida la infraestructura ecológica .........................
6. Esta medida sería un primer paso fundamental para combatir los efectos del cambio climático, como 
la elevación del nivel del mar y tormentas más frecuentes e intensas .................................................. 
7. Esta medida permitiría ﬁ nanciar proyectos de capital de alta prioridad diseñados para brindar 
protección contra las inundaciones y mejorar la calidad del agua .........................................................
8. Esta propuesta se destinará completamente a los servicios de aguas pluviales. El concejo municipal     
no podrá utilizarla para ningún otro ﬁ n, ni el gobierno estatal ni del condado podrán eliminarla  ........
9. Esta medida ayudaría a garantizar que las actividades recreativas, como la natación, la 
navegación y otras actividades acuáticas, estén resguardadas de la vegetación indeseada y otros 
contaminantes ............................................................................................................................................
10. Esta medida ﬁ nanciaría Marina Lagoon como establecimiento recreativo que también actúa como 
establecimiento de control de las inundaciones ......................................................................................
11. Crear una fuente de ﬁ nanciación exclusiva y sustentable es la mejor manera de garantizar agua 
limpia y de evitar inundaciones locales ....................................................................................................
SMSW
Elija una de las siguientes opciones para completar esta encuesta en línea:
• visit www.inputlocal.com, e ingrese: SURVEY NAME “SANMATEOSW”, SURVEY CODE ________; o
• escanee el código QR de la derecha con su teléfono y siga las instrucciones.
1.
SMSW
ownerid
Iniciativa de arroyos limpios y protección contra inundaciones
• medidas para evitar que la basura y otros contaminantes ﬂ uyan hacia áreas donde puedan interferir con la recreación
   o causar daños en el hábitat;
• mantenimiento, limpieza, reparación, rehabilitación y administración de nuestra infraestructura para aguas pluviales;
• recuperación de la profundidad de navegación original de la laguna y gestión del crecimiento de la vegetación y de
   otros problemas relacionados con la calidad del agua,
¿Colaboraría con una tarifa mensual por cada propiedad por el monto de _________?
565 of 662

--- page 566 ---
Why Am I Receiving This Survey?
Investing in Local Infrastructure
All of us in San Mateo are dependent on our local 
storm drainage system to keep our streets, homes, 
and property safe from local flooding, primarily 
due to seasonal rain storms. However, among the 
stormwater management activities in the City of San 
Mateo, one has emerged as paramount: stewardship 
of Marina Lagoon. As the receiving body of most of 
the City’s stormwater flows, Marina lagoon has an 
important drainage role and acts as a flood control 
basin, ultimately providing protection to properties 
and roadways from large winter storms.  
In addition, Marina lagoon plays a large role as a 
community recreational amenity for scenic walks, 
swimming, boating, and other water activities. 
However, both the drainage and recreational aspects 
are being degraded due to the accumulation of silt and 
sediment coming from upstream sources.  As a result, 
the City of San Mateo is considering proposing a funding 
measure to help pay for these critical infrastructure 
needs, and seeks input from local property owners 
on your priorities for restoration and maintenance of 
Marina Lagoon, and local flood protection. Please read 
the following information, and complete the enclosed 
survey. Your answers will help guide our efforts 
toward restoring and maintaining Marina Lagoon, and 
protecting the City and its residents.   
In recognition of the challenges facing Marina Lagoon, 
the City of San Mateo conducted an analysis in 2018 
showing that a full dredging of Marina Lagoon to its 
original state, which has not been done since 1965, 
would cost as much as $85 million – more than all other 
stormwater capital needs combined. Additionally, the 
analysis found overall stormwater funding needs are 
greater than what is currently available through the 
General Fund.
In response to this information, the City is currently 
exploring funding options to effectively manage both 
Marina Lagoon, and the City’s overall stormwater 
system.  The included survey questionnaire will help 
the City evaluate the community’s priorities regarding 
investment in Marina Lagoon and protecting this 
Beach-going is a popular activity at 
Marina Lagoon
See Reverse Side for More Information    
Marina Lagoon as an Amenity 
and Infrastucture
Marina Lagoon featuers nine miles of waterfront, and 
receives most of the City’s stormwater runoff
Marina Lagoon 
Restoration Initiative
Marina Lagoon serves a dual purpose as the City’s 
primary flood control basin, while providing local 
recreational activities such as scenic strolls, beach 
activities, and boating. Marina Lagoon’s function 
within the City’s Stormwater infrastructure and as 
a recreational attraction comprises an inter-related 
system requiring significant resources to excel in its 
performance of both functions. 
566 of 662

--- page 567 ---
Challenges Facing Marina 
Lagoon
To respond online, or para responder en español, visit www.inputlocal.com and enter code found on front of survey
Long-Term Financial Sustainability
The City currently spends approximately $500,000 
annually for managing Marina Lagoon, including 
operations, maintenance, water quality and vegetation 
management; money that comes from the City’s General 
Fund where it must compete with many other community 
services such as public safetey, roads, and parks.  But 
all this is a losing battle without removing the silt and 
sediment that has built up over the past five decades. The 
lack of a dedicated, sustainable funding source is resulting 
in degradation of Marina Lagoon as a recreational amenity 
and stormwater infrastructure facility.
A local funding measure would go a long way toward 
restoring Marina Lagoon, and protect this critical City 
feature for current and future generations. 
Information Fact Sheet
Funds from a local ballot measure would allow the 
City to restore and properly maintain Marina Lagoon. 
Following is a list of improvements to Marina Lagoon 
that additional funding could provide:
•	
Vegetation growth management
•	
Improved water quality due to dredging
•	
Silt excavation for proper tide gate functionality
•	
Increased stormwater retention capacity due to dredging
•	
Restoration of navigable water depth for boating and kayaking
•	
Restoration of bird and other wildlife habitat
What Will a Funding Measure    
Provide?
Marina Lagoon receives water conveyed from three 
of the City’s four main local creeks; Leslie Creek, 
Borel Creek, and Laurel Creek, consumating its 
role as a stormwater retention and flood control 
basin.Tidal gates at the southern and northern 
ends of Marina Lagoon act as an inlet and outlet. 
In 1964 when the last full dredging was completed, 
Marina Lagoon infrastructure provided a navigable 
body of water for recreational use, and a wildlife 
sanctuary for birds and animals.  
However, 40 years have passed since the last 
partial dredging in 1981, and both the drainage 
and recreational aspects of Marina Lagoon are 
being degraded due to the accumulation of silt 
and sediment coming from upstream sources and 
the Bay, causing other environmental problems 
such as algae blooms, water quality, and limited 
navigable water depth for boats. 
Algae blooms are increasing due to 
higher temperatures associated with 
climate change 
Water levels in the south end of Marina 
Lagoon have decreased dramatically 
due to silt deposits, resulting in loss 
of navigable water depth for boating, 
loss of wildlife habitat, and decreased 
stormwater retention capacity greatly 
reducing the City’s flood control 
capacity. 
Marina Lagoon drains water from most of the City’s creeks and pipes, 
providing critical stormwater retention for the City
Marina Lagoon 
Restoration Initiative
567 of 662

--- page 568 ---
Iniciativa de recuperación 
de Marina Lagoon 
 
¿Por qué recibo esta encuesta? 
Todas las personas de San Mateo dependemos de 
nuestro sistema de alcantarillado pluvial local para 
proteger nuestras calles, nuestros hogares y nuestras 
pertenencias 
de 
las 
inundaciones 
locales, 
principalmente debido a las tormentas de estación. 
Sin 
embargo, 
dentro 
de 
las 
actividades 
de 
administración de las aguas pluviales en la ciudad de 
San Mateo, una de ellas cobró especial importancia: la 
administración de Marina Lagoon. La laguna tiene 
una importante función en el desagüe de la ciudad, ya 
que se trata del cuerpo receptor del caudal de la 
mayor parte de las aguas pluviales y actúa como 
cuenca para controlar las inundaciones y, en última 
instancia, protege las propiedades y las carreteras de 
las grandes tormentas invernales. 
Además, Marina Lagoon cumple un rol importante 
como servicio recreativo comunitario donde se 
pueden realizar pintorescas caminatas, natación, 
navegación 
y 
otras 
actividades 
acuáticas. 
Sin 
embargo, tanto su función de drenaje como su 
función recreativa están deteriorándose debido a la 
acumulación de lodo y sedimento que proviene de 
fuentes río arriba. Como consecuencia, la ciudad de 
San Mateo está pensando en proponer una medida de 
financiamiento para ayudar a pagar estas necesidades 
de infraestructura fundamentales y busca conocer la 
opinión de los propietarios locales sobre sus 
prioridades en cuanto a la recuperación y el 
mantenimiento de Marina Lagoon y a la protección 
local contra las inundaciones. Lea la siguiente 
información y complete la encuesta que se adjunta. 
Sus respuestas ayudarán a guiar nuestros esfuerzos 
para recuperar y mantener la laguna Marina y para 
proteger a la ciudad y sus residentes. 
 
Ir a la playa es una actividad popular en 
Marina Lagoon. 
Marina Lagoon como 
establecimiento e infraestructura 
Marina Lagoon cumple un doble fin, ya que es la 
principal cuenca para el control de las inundaciones 
de la ciudad y, al mismo tiempo, ofrece actividades 
recreativas locales, como caminatas pintorescas, 
actividades de playa y navegación. La función de 
Marina Lagoon dentro de la infraestructura pluvial 
de la ciudad y como atracción recreativa comprende 
un sistema interrelacionado que requiere de muchos 
recursos para poder cumplir con sus dos funciones de 
manera correcta. 
 
Marina Lagoon tiene una orilla de nueve millas y 
recibe la mayor parte del agua de escorrentía de la ciudad 
 
Inversión en infraestructura local 
Tras reconocer las dificultades que atraviesa Marina 
Lagoon, la ciudad de San Mateo llevó a cabo un 
análisis en 2018, a partir del cual se demostró que 
dragar por completo la laguna para recuperar su 
estado original, lo cual no se ha hecho desde 1965, 
costaría $85 millones, más que todas las demás 
necesidades 
de 
capital 
para 
aguas 
pluviales 
combinadas. Además, a partir del análisis se 
determinó que los fondos que se necesitan para 
invertir en las aguas pluviales son mayores que el 
monto que está disponible actualmente a través del 
fondo general. 
Como respuesta a esta información, la ciudad está 
explorando 
opciones 
de 
financiamiento 
para 
administrar de manera eficaz tanto Marina Lagoon 
como el sistema general de aguas pluviales de la 
ciudad. La encuesta que incluimos ayudará a la 
ciudad a evaluar las prioridades de la comunidad en 
relación con las inversiones en Marina Lagoon y en su 
protección. 
  
Consulte el reverso para obtener más información 
 
568 of 662

--- page 569 ---
Iniciativa de recuperación 
de Marina Lagoon 
Ficha informativa 
Las dificultades que 
atraviesa Marina Lagoon 
 
Marina Lagoon recibe el agua que drena de la mayoría de los riachuelos y las 
tuberías de la ciudad, por lo que constituye un sistema de retención 
de aguas pluviales fundamental para la ciudad. 
 
Marina Lagoon recibe el agua proveniente de tres 
de los cuatro riachuelos principales de la ciudad 
(los riachuelos Leslie, Borel y Laurel), por lo que 
consuma su función como cuenca de retención de 
aguas pluviales y de control de inundaciones. Las 
compuertas de marea en los extremos norte y sur 
de la laguna actúan como entrada y salida. En 
1964, cuando se llevó a cabo el último dragado 
completo, la infraestructura de Marina Lagoon 
ofrecía un cuerpo de agua navegable para uso 
recreativo y un santuario de vida silvestre para 
aves y animales. 
No obstante, ya han pasado 40 años desde su 
último dragado parcial en 1981, y tanto su función 
de drenaje como su función recreativa se están 
deteriorando debido a la acumulación de lodo y 
sedimento que proviene de fuentes río arriba y de 
la bahía, lo cual genera otros problemas 
ambientales, como la proliferación de algas, el 
deterioro de la calidad del agua y la limitación de 
la profundidad del agua para navegar. 
Sustentabilidad financiera a largo 
plazo 
En la actualidad, la ciudad invierte aproximadamente 
$500 000 al año en la administración de Marina 
Lagoon, lo cual incluye operaciones, mantenimiento y 
administración de la calidad del agua y la vegetación. 
Este dinero proviene del fondo general de la ciudad, 
donde debe competir con muchos otros servicios 
comunitarios, 
como 
la 
seguridad 
pública, 
las 
carreteras y los parques.  Pero todo está destinado a 
fracasar si no se elimina el lodo y el sedimento que se 
acumuló en las últimas cinco décadas. La falta de una 
fuente de financiación exclusiva y sostenible está 
llevando 
al 
deterioro 
de 
la 
laguna 
como 
establecimiento recreativo y de infraestructura para 
las aguas pluviales. 
 
Una medida de financiamiento local podría contribuir 
mucho a la recuperación de la laguna y a la 
protección de este atractivo fundamental de la ciudad 
para las generaciones actuales y futuras. 
¿Qué garantizará una 
medida de financiamiento? 
Los fondos provenientes de una medida electoral 
local le permitirían a la ciudad recuperar y mantener 
Marina Lagoon de manera adecuada. La siguiente es 
una 
lista 
de 
mejoras 
en 
la 
laguna 
que 
el 
financiamiento adicional podría ayudar a garantizar: 
• 
Administración del crecimiento de la vegetación. 
• 
Mejora de la calidad del agua gracias al dragado. 
• 
Excavación del lodo para mejorar el funcionamiento de las 
compuertas de marea. 
• 
Mayor capacidad de retención de las aguas pluviales gracias al 
dragado. 
• 
Recuperación de la profundidad del agua para poder navegar en 
bote y hacer kayak. 
• 
Recuperación del hábitat para aves y otros tipos de fauna. 
 
Los niveles de agua en el extremo sur de Marina Lagoon 
se han reducido drásticamente debido a los depósitos de 
lodo, lo cual llevó a la pérdida de profundidad del agua de 
navegación, a la pérdida de hábitats de la fauna y a la 
reducción de la capacidad de retención de aguas 
pluviales, por lo que se redujo también la capacidad de 
control de las inundaciones de la ciudad. 
 
 
La proliferación de algas ha 
aumentado debido a las altas 
temperaturas relacionadas con 
el cambio climático. 
 
 
Si desea responder en línea o en español, visite www.inputlocal.com e ingrese el código que se encuentra en 
el frente de la encuesta 
569 of 662

--- page 570 ---
Please use the space below to write any reasons why you support or oppose this proposed measure.  Also, please describe which 
issues are most important to you:
This survey has been mailed to a random sample of residents and business owners in the City of San Mateo to gather information and 
input.  This information will help the City make decisions about funding for future Marina Lagoon restoration and maintenance services. 
Please complete and return this survey as soon as possible. You may take the survey online or mail the completed survey below in the 
postage-prepaid return envelope provided. Please return it by November 26, 2021. 
       Detach Here                                                  Fill in Lower Portion, Detach at this Line, and Mail Back in Return Envelope                                                                     Detach Here
Definitely YES	
Probably YES 	
Probably NO 	
Definitely NO
Residents and business owners within San Mateo may be asked to vote on a 
local ballot measure as follows.  Please indicate your level of support.
CITY OF SAN MATEO OFFICIAL SURVEY
Marina Lagoon Restoration Initiative
Now, please read the following statements regarding the proposed Marina Lagoon Restoration Initiative ballot measure.  For 
each statement, please indicate whether they make you more or less likely to support the measure:
	
Much 	 Somewhat	
	
Somewhat	 Much
       More	        More	
No	
Less	
Less
	
Likely	
Likely	 Impact	 Likely	
Likely
	
Survey Instructions:
1)	 Read each question listed below. 
2)	 Fill in the circle for your response.  Please use a 
pen and completely fill in the circle.
3)	 Detach the bottom portion of this sheet 
containing your answers.
4)	 Place the bottom portion of this sheet in the 
return envelope and mail (no postage needed).
Mateo-ml
This survey is being conducted by an independent third party on behalf of the City. All information obtained through this process will remain confidential and only shared with the City in aggregate form.
In order to continue to protect and invest in Marina Lagoon as a community amenity for                                                               
scenic enjoyment, beach-going, boating, and other water activities for future generations by:
• 
Managing vegetation growth and other water quality issues; and
• 
Increasing stormwater retention and flood control capacity by dredging silt and sediments; and
• 
Restoring Marina Lagoon to a water depth that supports boating, recreation, and storm flows;
would you support an annual assessment on each property(ies) in the amount of ___________, collected on the property tax bill?
2.	
This measure would pay for some of the dredging of Marina Lagoon to restore the channel to its      
original boating water depth.............................................................................................................................
3.  	
This measure would help fund the annual maintenance effort to keep Marina Lagoon clean and safe for 
boating, swimming, and other water activities..................................................................................................
4.	
This measure would provide increased flood control capacity in Marina Lagoon, protecting our streets and 
properties from local flooding...........................................................................................................................
5. 	
The City plans to install trash capture devices in storm drains which remove trash and pollution before 
they enter Marina Lagoon and San Francisco Bay..........................................................................................
6. 
This measure would be a critical first step in combating the effects of climate change on Marina Lagoon, 
where lower water levels and increased temperatures are increasing the frequency of algae blooms..........
7.	
This measure may not be enough to fully fund Marina Lagoon dredging work; a separate stormwater fee       
may be needed to fund this important work along with other stormwater management challenges..............
8.	
The City plans to address its drainage and water quality challenges in ways that are environmentally 
sustainable, including green infrastructure, to protect Marina Lagoon............................................................
9.	
This measure would be fully dedicated to the restoration and maintenance of Marina Lagoon, and could 
not be used for any other reason by the City Council or taken away by county or state government............
10.	
This measure would include rates tiered by proximity to Marina Lagoon (frontage, walkable, others)..........
11. 
This measure would help ensure safe, clean, healthy water in the creeks flowing through San Mateo to 
Marina Lagoon and the Bay, now and for future generations....................................................................
ownerid
To complete this survey online please do one of the following:
• visit www.inputlocal.com, enter: SURVEY NAME “MATEOML-1”, SURVEY CODE ________, or
• scan the QR CODE on the right with your phone and follow the instructions.
barcode
1.
570 of 662

--- page 571 ---
Utilice el siguiente espacio para escribir cualquier razón que tenga para apoyar u oponerse a la propuesta. Además, puede explicar 
cualquier asunto que le parezca relevante:
Se envió por correo esta encuesta, a residentes y propietarios de negocios de la ciudad de San Mateo para obtener información y 
comentarios. Esta información ayudará a la ciudad a tomar decisiones sobre la financiación de la futura recuperación de Marina Lagoon 
y los servicios de mantenimiento. Complete y envíe esta encuesta lo antes posible. Puede llenarla en línea o enviarla por correo en el 
sobre de respuesta pagado que recibió. Envíela antes del 26 de noviembre de 2021. 
          Corte aquí                                 Complete la parte inferior, corte en esta línea y envíela por correo en el sobre                                                                                  Corte aquí
Se les puede pedir a los residentes y propietarios de negocios de San Mateo que voten 
en una medida electoral local de la siguiente manera. Indique su nivel de apoyo.
ENCUESTA OFICIAL DE LA CIUDAD DE SAN MATEO
Iniciativa de recuperación de Marina Lagoon
Lea las siguientes afirmaciones con respecto a la propuesta de ley de restauración de Marina Lagoon. En cada afirmación indique que tan 
probable es que apoye la propuesta:
	
	
Instrucciones para la encuesta:
1)Lea atentamente las preguntas enumeradas 
  más abajo.
2)Marque el círculo con su respuesta. Utilice 
  una pluma (bolígrafo) y rellene todo el círculo.
3)Corte la parte inferior de esta hoja que con
  tiene sus respuestas.
4)Coloque la parte que cortó dentro del sobre que 
enviará y llévelo al correo (no page la estampilla).
Mateo-ml
Esta encuesta la gestiona un tercero imparcial en nombre de la ciudad. Toda la información que se obtenga a través de este proceso será confidencial y solo se compartirá con la ciudad de forma conjunta.
Para continuar protegiendo Marina Lagoon e invirtiendo en el servicio comunitario para disfrutar del                                                    
lugar, ir a la playa, navegar y realizar otras actividades acuáticas para futuras generaciones por medio de:
• 
el mantenimiento del crecimiento de la vegetación y otras cuestiones de calidad del agua; y
• 
el aumento de la retención del agua de lluvia y la capacidad de control de inundaciones con el dragado de lodo y sedimentos; y
• 
la restitución de una profundidad en la laguna que sea suficiente para la navegación, recreación y soportar el caudal de lluvia;
¿Le gustaría financiar una evaluación anual de cada propiedad(es) por el monto de____, que se obtendrá del impuesto 
inmobiliario?
2.	
Esta medida pagaría una parte del dragado de Marina Lagoon para devolverle al canal la profundidad 
original para la navegación...............................................................................................................................
3.   
Esta medida ayudaría a financiar el mantenimiento anual de la limpieza y seguridad en la navegación, 
natación y otras actividades acuáticas en Marina Lagoon .............................................................................
4.	
Esta medida permitiría una mejor capacidad de control de las inundaciones en Marina Lagoon, lo que 
protegería las calles y propiedades de inundaciones locales.........................................................................
5.  
En las alcantarillas, la ciudad planea instalar dispositivos de filtrado de basura y elementos que 
contaminan antes de que ingresen en Marina Lagoon y la bahía de San Francisco.....................................
6.	
Esta medida sería un primer paso fundamental para combatir los efectos del cambio climático en Marina 
Lagoon,donde el bajo nivel de agua y las temperaturas elevadas aumentan la proliferación de algas.........
7. 
Esta propuesta podría no ser suficiente para financiar por completo el dragado de Marina Lagoon; 
es posible que se necesite una tarifa adicional para financiar este importante trabajo junto con otros 
problemas en el control del caudal de lluvia....................................................................................................
8. 
Para proteger Marina Lagoon, la ciudad abordará las dificultades del desagüe y la calidad del agua de 
manera sustentable para el medio ambiente, incluida la infraestructura ecológica........................................
9.	
Esta propuesta se destinará completamente a la restauración y mantenimiento de Marina Lagoon. El concejo 
municipal no podrá utilizarla para ninguna otra razón, ni el gobierno estatal o del condado podrán eliminarla......
10.	
Esta medida podría incluir tarifas escalonadas según proximidad a Marina Lagoon (por frente, peatonal, otros)..
11. 
This measure would help ensure safe, clean, healthy water in the creeks flowing through San Mateo to 
Marina Lagoon and the Bay, now and for future generations....................................................................
ownerid
Elija una de las siguientes opciones para completar esta encuesta en línea:
• visite www.inputlocal.com,  e ingrese: SURVEY NAME “MATEOML-1”, SURVEY CODE______; o
• escanee el código QR de la derecha con su teléfono y siga las instrucciones.
barcode
1.
Definitivamente SÍ 	
Probablemente YES 	
Probablemente NO 	
Definitivamente NO
   Más 	        Un poco   No         Un poco    Menos
   probable  más          influye   menos      probable 
                   probable                probable
571 of 662

--- page 572 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  28
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 22-5867
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 21, 2022 
SUBJECT:
330 Villa Terrace – Property Owner Appeal of Relocation Benefits
RECOMMENDATION:
Deny the appeal and uphold the notice to pay relocation benefits to the tenant who resides at 330 Villa Terrace due to 
unlawful substandard living conditions pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.50 “Property Owner Obligations 
with Respect to Tenants Displaced from Unsafe or Substandard Units.”
BACKGROUND:
 History:
The subject property is currently developed with a single-family dwelling, a detached accessory dwelling unit, and an 
accessory storage structure.  City records show that in 1992 the accessory storage structure (identified as “Unit A” in this 
report and attachments), which had previously been illegally converted to a residential unit, was converted back to an 
accessory storage structure. Therefore, Unit A may only be used for storage and similar accessory uses. There is currently 
one tenant residing in Unit A, and neither the use nor the previous residential unit modifications to the structure are 
permitted. The monthly rent is $1,695. According to the property owner this tenant has resided in Unit A for six (6) years.
On January 27, 2022, Code Enforcement received a complaint of a raw sewage leak outside of Unit A. Code Enforcement 
Officer II (CEO) Kristen Aiu immediately responded to the site to inspect the exterior and interior of the structure. During 
the inspection CEO Aiu observed the following conditions: 

The interior of the storage structure had been converted to habitable space without City approval. The alterations 
included the addition of a bathroom and kitchen with plumbing, mechanical, and electrical improvements.

The electrical system was determined to be an immediate hazard due to hazardous wiring in the main electrical 
box. This required immediate repair by a licensed electrician and the work has been completed with a permit.

Interior walls are deteriorated especially in the bathroom where moisture has caused mold, rot, and decay of the 
floor and walls.

There were no working smoke detectors or carbon monoxide alarms. 

The interior ceiling is damaged and sagging in various places due to water intrusion from the leaking roof. 

The exterior of the structure was severely dilapidated and contained dry rot sewage residue around the sewer 
clean out. 
City Response:
Due to the immediate hazardous conditions of the electrical panel, the property owner hired a licensed electrician to make 
repairs. A permit was obtained from the City and that work was finalized on February 28, 2022. While the urgent electrical 
repair was taking place, CEO Aiu researched City and San Mateo County property records and discovered that Unit A is not 
a legal dwelling unit and therefore would need to go through the established development review and permitting process 
to have a third dwelling unit on the property. Considering the requirements involved with the development review 
572 of 662

--- page 573 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
process, permitting process, and correcting the substandard conditions, staff determined that the structure could not 
foreseeably be brought into code compliance within 90 days from the date of an order to vacate. Therefore, the tenant 
would be considered permanently displaced due to the substandard living conditions and would be eligible for relocation 
benefits. 
On February 14, 2022, a notice was issued to the property owner declaring the substandard conditions and ordering Unit A 
to be vacated by no later than February 28, 2022. Included in that notice, pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) 
sections 7.50.090(a), the Property Owner was ordered to pay the tenant for permanent relocation in the following 
amounts:
1.
The HUD rate for a one-bedroom unit in San Mateo County is $2,923 x 3 = $8,769. 
2.
Actual moving costs and related expenses not to exceed $1,000 to be paid within 60 days of receipt of expenses.
3.
In addition, an immediate vacation allowance in the amount of $1,000 because the tenant received fewer than 30 
days advanced notice before being displaced pursuant to SMMC section 7.50.090(d). 
Appeal:
The property owner has appealed the tenant relocation payments asserting the tenant will not be deemed displaced 
pursuant to SMMC 7.50.030(b)(6) since the property owner has offered a replacement dwelling with the same 
accommodations, size, and rent, located in Redwood City.
Analysis:
In accordance with SMMC 7.50.030, the tenant shall be eligible for relocation payments from a property owner if the 
tenant household is displaced from its dwelling or room due to the City's code enforcement activities. Specifically, SMMC 
7.50.030(a)(2) states that the tenant household shall vacate its dwelling or room (whether or not the property owner 
requires vacation) after the City has issued a notice to vacate, notice to abate life-threatening condition, or declaration of 
substandard condition covering that dwelling or room.  SMMC 7.50.030(b)(6) states that the tenant shall not be deemed 
displaced due to code enforcement activities if the property owner offers, in writing, to move the tenant household 
immediately into a replacement dwelling or room in the same building or complex, allowing the owner to waive the 
relocation payments. 
The replacement dwelling offered by the appellant does not comply with this requirement, as it is in Redwood City, and 
not in the same building or complex. Further, the tenant has informed CEO Aiu that she does not agree to this offer from 
the property owner. According to SMMC section 7.50.030, the tenant is displaced, is eligible for relocation benefits in the 
form monetary compensation or a dwelling in the same building or complex, and neither of which have been offered or 
provided by the property owner. Therefore, staff recommends the appeal be denied and for tenant relocation benefits be 
provided to the tenant according to City requirements.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact related to this report. If Council finds that City funds should be used to provide relocation 
benefits to the tenant, the money would be allocated from the Emergency Relocation Assistance Fund that was 
established to advance tenant assistance in urgent situations and then billed to the property owner. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appeal is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Warning Letter to Abate Public Nuisance and Declaration of Substandard Conditions and Notice to Vacate
Att 2 – Written Appeal, Documentary Evidence, and potential witnesses from property owner
Att 3 – Code Enforcement Case Notes
573 of 662

--- page 574 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Att 4 – Site Photos
Att 5 – Potential Witnesses
STAFF CONTACT
Kristin Aiu, Code Enforcement Officer II
kaiu@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7152
574 of 662

--- page 575 ---
Building Division (650) 522‐7172 ∙ Code Enforcement Division (650) 522‐7150 
Housing Division (650) 522‐7220 ∙ Planning Division (650) 522‐7212 ∙ General (650) 522‐7200  
 
                                                                             
 
 
 
 
 
02/14/2022 
WARNING LETTER TO ABATE A PUBLIC NUISANCE 
AND DECLARATION OF A SUBSTANDARD DWELLING CONDITIONAND  
NOTICE TO VACATE  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This notice is part of the ongoing Code Enforcement case for your property located at 330 VILLA TER 
in San Mateo, California.  As outlined in the previous notice 01/27/2022, the City of San Mateo Code 
Enforcement received a complaint regarding violations of the San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) 
existing on your property. Based on that information, Code Enforcement Staff conducted an 
inspection of the property on 01/27/2022, specifically the building identified on the property as Unit 
A. In addition to the inspection, I have reviewed the permit historical records of the property and 
have determined that the structure identified as Unit A is not permitted for habitable use. This is a 
formal notice from the City of San Mateo to correct the violations. 
 
Substandard Conditions: 
 Prohibited occupancy of an accessory structure. 
 Unpermitted construction/alterations of the accessory structure include plumbing, electrical, 
and mechanical (the structure is identified on the site as Unit A). 
 
Required Corrections and Compliance Date: 
Because this structure is not a permitted habitable space and the steps necessary to legalize it as 
such will take longer than 90 days, the City of San Mateo hereby orders that the accessory structure 
be vacated no later than 4:00pm on Monday, February 28, 2022. Once this structure has been 
vacated it shall remain vacant until such time that it can be legalized as permitted dwelling unit.   
Enclosed is an informational planning application packet outlining the process to add a lawful third 
dwelling on your property.  
 
If you choose not to legalize this structure as a dwelling unit, no later than March 14, 2021 you must 
apply for all necessary permits to restore the structure back to the last permitted use as a “storage 
structure only” 
 
Whichever option you choose, there is a specified process that must be followed to obtain the 
necessary permits. Please let me know which option you choose, and I will be happy to provide you 
with guidance on the required process.    
CITY OF SAN MATEO  
   
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
 
   
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
MICHAUD TERRY A & LUCIA KIM TRS 
1107 SOUTH B STREET 
SAN MATEO, CA. 94401 
CASE: CE‐2022‐000006 
APN: 032 161 050 
Address: 330 VILLA TER  
575 of 662

--- page 576 ---
Building Division (650) 522‐7172 ∙ Code Enforcement Division (650) 522‐7150 
Housing Division (650) 522‐7220 ∙ Planning Division (650) 522‐7212 ∙ General (650) 522‐7200  
 
 
Property‐Owner Obligations with Respect to Tenant Displaced from Unsafe or Substandard Units: 
Under section 7.50.090 (a) and (d) of the SMMC, the tenant living in the accessory structure is 
entitled to permanent relocation (“Permanent Displacement”) payments equal to three times the 
current monthly HUD rate for a one‐bedroom unit in San Mateo County, as follows:  
 
1. The HUD rate for a one‐bedroom unit in San Mateo County is $2,923 x 3 = $8,769 
2. An Immediate vacation allowance of $1,000 because the tenant received fewer than 30 days’ 
advanced notice before being displaced. 
3. Actual moving costs and related expenses not to exceed $1,000. 
 
Total amount due to the tenant immediately: $9,769  
 
Total due within 60 days: Reimbursement for actual moving costs and related expenses not to exceed 
$1,000. 
 
Written Appeal (SMMC 7.50.100(a)): 
1. A property owner or tenant household may contest a decision, order, or determination 
regarding relocation payments or a notice of penalty or fine assessed this chapter by 
submitting an appeal in writing together with the appeal fee listed in the City’s fee schedule. 
The appeal shall set forth the factual basis for disputing the decision, order, or determination. 
2. Appeals must be addressed to the Director, and must be received within ten (10) days of the 
date appearing on the decision, order, or determination regarding relocation benefits or the 
notice of penalty or fine. A copy of the appeal must be provided by the appellant to any 
tenant household(s) or property owner(s) directly affected by the appeal on or by the same 
date that the appeal is received by the Director. 
 
Applicable Code Section:  
SMMC 7.14 Property Maintenance Code (IPMC 404.4.4 Prohibited Occupancy): 
Kitchens and uninhabitable spaces shall not be used for sleeping purposes. 
 
SMMC 7.14 Property Maintenance Code (IPMC 102.3) and California Health & Safety Code 17920.3 (n): 
Repairs, additions, or alterations to a structure or change of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the 
procedures and provisions of the latest edition of the California Building Code(s). 
 
SMMC 7.16.030 Public nuisances adversely affecting the public peace and safety (b): 
All buildings and alteration of buildings, or parts thereof, made or erected in violation of City ordinances or 
any applicable County, State, or Federal laws prescribing the manner and materials for the construction or 
alteration, including construction without required permits. 
 
Permits required SMMC 23.07.010, SMMC 23.06.070 
 
Pursuant to SMCC §1.10, Administrative Citations: Each and every day a violation of this code exists 
constitutes a separate and distinct offense. Each section of the code violated constitutes a separate 
violation for any day at issue. However, the issuances of the administrative citations are not the 
exclusive remedy. 
 
 
576 of 662

--- page 577 ---
Building Division (650) 522‐7172 ∙ Code Enforcement Division (650) 522‐7150 
Housing Division (650) 522‐7220 ∙ Planning Division (650) 522‐7212 ∙ General (650) 522‐7200  
 
 
In addition to administrative penalties, the City may assess administrative costs against the violator. 
The administrative costs may include any and all costs incurred by the City in connection with the 
matter, including, but not limited to, code enforcement staff and associated indirect costs, costs of 
inspection, investigation, attorneys’ fees. All administrative penalties and costs shall be borne by the 
owner of the property and the cost thereof shall be a lien upon and against the property and such 
lien shall continue in existence until the same shall be paid. 
 
 
Sincerely,  
 
 
Kristen Aiu 
Code Enforcement Officer II 
(650) 522‐7152 
kaiu@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
CC:    Street File 
          Tenants 
Attachments: Permit 21185 
                           Planning application packet 
577 of 662

--- page 578 ---
BUILDING
BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION
DEPARTMENT
OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING
DIVISION
330 WEST
20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 94403-
1388
415) 377-
3375
M3456.
i035MT2E-?
2-
9i
35.
5069
PERMIT
NUMBER
P11A5
ASSESSOR'
S
PARCEL
NUMBER
032-
161-
050
01
PA NUMBER
USE
ZONE
DESCRIPTION
OF WORK
RESTORE COTTAGE TO STORAGE IEE
APPLICANT ` •
TEM
AMA
JOB ADDRESS - 
cay ., .
330 VILLA
TERRACE
330
VILLA
TER. -
SPECIAL
APPROVAL
APPROVED
BY
DATE'
SAM WED, CA
94401
PLANNING
PUBLIC
WORKS
OCCUPANCY
GROUP
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION
SEWER
CONN. FEES
VALUATION
r. -
FIRE
R3
411
3 SF.
500
PARK & 
RECREATION
NEW CONSTRUCTION  
ADDITION . 
0
ACCESSORY
BUILDING
0
SPECIAL - INFORMATION
FEE SUMMARY
REPAIR  
BUILDING
MOVE  
SWIMMING • 
FIRST
POOR
FLOOR
naen
BLDG. PERMIT.
336-
00
351.
00
ALTERATION
I ] 
DEMOLISH
III
SOLAR
0
AREA
E
PL. CHECK
336-
05
THIS
APPLICATION
BECOMES
YOUR PERMIT WHEN
SIGNED, VALIDATED
AND
APPROVED
BY THE
BUILDING
DIVISION.
TOTAL
AREA
PLANNING
PLCMECK
351-
14
HEIGHT
PERMIT
REQUIRED
FROM
CITY
ENGINEER
FOR
CONSTRUCTION' 
ON
OR
OB
STORIES
IN
FEET
MICRO - FILM
336-
06 '
STRUCTION
OF. ANY STREET OR SIDEWALK. • - -
ACC
BLogs
P & 
R TAX-.
11-
250-
15
FINAL INSPECTION
FOR APPROVAL AND A CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY
MUST
ACCAREA
SMI TAX
250-
10
50
BE ISSUED
BEFORE
BUILDING
OR STRUCTURE
IS USED. -
BEDROOMS
TOTAL
PREv
SEWER
CONN.
22-
360-
00
THIS
PERMIT
BECOMES
NULL
AND
VOID
IF
WORK
IS
NOT
COMMENCED
WITHIN
BATH:
FULL
AND
TH: FULIAL
OTHER
336-
07
180
DAYS
FROM
DATE
OF ISSUANCE, 
OR IF WORK
IS SUSPENDED
AT
ANY TIME FOR
MOR
THAN
180 DAYS
OR IF WORK
IS DONE IN VIOLATION
OF
FIXT
PLUMBING
336-
03
ANY CITY
OR ST
L
RELATING THERETO:
PARKING
REQUIRED
ELECTRICAL
336-
01
LDING
INSPECTOR .
PROVIDED - - _
MECHANICAL
336-
02 - -
BY: 
DATE. / 
DWELLING
UNITS •
TOTAL.
cr
NAME
S -
INSTALLATION
I hereby
affirm that
I
m licensed under provisions
of Chapter
9 ( commencing
with
Section
70001
of
Division
3 of
the Business
and
Professions
Code, 
in
full
force
I
u.
i
ADDRESS
PHONE'
330 VILLA TERRACE
OF FIRE
DETECT-
and
my.
license
is
and
effect. -
CITY
SPM
srn
STATE - 
ZIP
EU
1 .
ION SYSTEM
MANDATORY ON
a
G
LICENSE. 
CITY
BUSINESS
AND
CLASS • 
TAX .
coNmEACTog,_
ER•
0
NAME
UCENSE.
RESIDENTIAL
NAM
BUILDERR
w
BUILDING PER-
2
OD
ADDRESS
330
VILLAyL
n TE/
RaRACE
ADDPEBS • '
PHONE
MIT$ 
W EXCESS
CITY
3114 $
IIEO. LA
S7ATE ZIP - 
PHOrNET-3993
i
CITY - 
STATE
ZIP
OF $
1pp0.
00.
senawr 
q ,./
p40i,.,( .
11
7)
40`
7 ' / '
r to
6
Date -
1ELECTRICAL
PERMIT - /` -
ELECTRICAL
FEES: -
QTY
AMOUNT
QTY
AMOUNT
QTY •
AMOUNT
E. 
FOR ISSUING
EACH
PERMIT
MOTORS ' -
OUTLETS
RESIDENTIAL - MIN. FEE
UP TO
5 KW OR 5 HP
SPECIAL
CIRCUITS
SERVICE. ' .
MOTORS) TOTAL KW/
HP -
SINGLE PHASE
RESIDENTIAL
SQ. FT.
OVER 5 KW OR 5 HP -
THREE
PHASE
COMMERCIAL
SQ. FT. GARAGE
MOTOR(
S) 
TOTAL KW/
HP .
SIGN CIRCUITS
TEMPORARY
POWER POLE .
INTERIOR
SIGNS -
FIXTURES
336-
01
FINAL TOTAL
1
PLUMBING
FEES: -
QTY'
AMOUNT
QTY
AMOUNT
QTY
AMOUNT
f FOR ISSUING
EACH PERMIT
POOL - PRIVATE
WATER
PIPE - REPAIR/
REPLACE
FIXTURE
PUBLIC -
oqylEN -
REPAIR/
REPLACE
ISEWER
BACKFLOW
WATER
HEATER' '
I GAS LINE.
RAINWATER DRAINS -
336-
03
FINAL
TOTAL '.
I MECHANICAL FEES: -
QTY
AMOUNT
QTY
AMOUNT
QTY
AMOUNT
I FOR
ISSUING EACH PERMIT -
BOILER
COMPRESSOR
OR
ABSORPTION
UNIT
OVER
10 CFM - FAN
I FURNACE
TO: 100
BTU ' '
1 TON = 
12,
000
BTU :
FAN LESS THAN 10 CFM
I
OVER
100M BTU
100 M BTU G
3 HP
DUCT EXTENSION
FURNACE
1 FLOOR. WALL. 
SUSPENDED
100-
500
BTU -
3. 1515HP.
COMMERCIAL
HOOD ..
500-
t00
M
BTU
0-
30HP. -
EVAPORATIVE
COOLER
1030-
1760HP. 
BTU
30
50EDHP.
1750
M BTU > 
50HP -
336-
02
FINAL
TOTAL
F SIGN FEES: -
QTY
AMOUNT
QTY
AMOUNT
QTY
AMOUNT
I FOR ISSUING
EACH PERMIT
ILLUMINATED
AREA
PER SIGN
E
NON ILLUMINATED
336
04 FINAL TOTAL
OWNER/
BUILDER'
I hereby
affirm
that
I am exempt from
the Contractors License Law
for
the following reason (
Sec. ] 031 5
Bus ne
s and
Professions
Code: Any city
or county which
requires
a permit to construct, 
alter
improve
demolsh. 
or repair
any
structure, 
prior
to its issuance, 
also
requires the
applicant
for
such
permit
to file
a signed statement
that
he
or
she
is licensed
put
uant
to
the provisions of the Contractors License
Law ( Chapter
9 ( commencing
9( 
P ( 
9
with
section
7000) of of
cti
3
of
the
Businessbstyand
Professions
ans
permit
that
he
or she
is exemptif penalty
and
the
tis
for the alleged
ol-
emption. $
5
Any
violation
of Section ]
031.
5
by
any
applicant
for
a
subjects
the applicant
to
a civil penalty of
not
more
than five hundred
tlol-
fors ( 85001.
1:
I. as
construct
of the
heproperty.r 'hacks'
0
etv contractinge
Prr
usonsa
oat
lessonsp
tweo:
e
s
to
the
Law
Business andof
a
d
es st apply
uil
orrranwssthee
Lawdehnotntrstmanr
heresrwpthacon-
omr is
for
such
projects
sas
a
con-
builds
or imensed
pursuant
and
e
Contractor'
s
Vac -torts) 
olbl
in CityyE
pursuant
to
r
e
Conbanv
a License
Law). All
such
Contr.
r obtain
Bus. Llc. -
I, as owner: of the
property. 
or my
employees. with
wages
as their
sole
compensation, will
do
the
work, and
the
structure
is
not
intended
or
Cal am
exempt
under Sec
B
E. PC
for
this reason
offered
for
sale (
Sec. 7044, Business and
Professions
Code: The Contractors License
Law
does
not apply. to
an
owner
of property
who
builds
or
improves
thereon, 
and
who
does
such
work
himself
or
herself
or through
his or her
own
employees
provided
that
such
improvements
are
not
in-
tended
or offered for
sale, If, however, the building
or
improvement
is sold
within
one
year
of completion. the
owner -builder
will
have
the
burden
of proving
that
he
or
she
did not
build
or
improve
for the
purpose
of sale.)
Signature
Date
IWORKERS
COMPENSATION _
I hereby
affirm
that
I
have
a
certificate
of
consent
to
self - insure. (
This
section
need
not
be
completed
if
the
permitis
for
one
NOTICE
TO
APPLICANT:
If, 
after
making
this
Certificate
of exempt- .
or
a certificate
of Workers' Compensation
Insurance. or
a certified - 
hundred
dollars ($
100) or less). • ' 
ion. you
should
become
subject
to
the
Workers' 
Compensation
copy
thereof (
Sec. 3800.. Lab. C). 
I certify
that
in the performance
of
the
work
for
which
this per-, 
provisions
of
the
Labor
Code. you
must
forthwith
comply
with
Policy - 
mit
is issued. I
shall. not
employ
any
person
in
any
manner: 
so
as
such
provisions
or this permit
shall
be
deemed
revoked. • 
to
become
subject
to
the WEerie -
CpQ
py
ywypiay 
of Call-
fornia. 
IRtt
fl1R13b / i'
ITIa -
D Certified
copy
is hereby
furnished
Certified
copy
is filed
with the
city building
inspection
Ins Company
Name -
department.'
Signature
Date
Spnature
Y 
P/ N  
Date •
wREAD
LENDER
I hereby
affirm
that
there
is
a
construction
lending
agency
for
APPLICANT
CLARE
I CECLARE
UNDER
PENALTY' OF
PERJURY
THAT IrHAVE
THIS
APPUCATION
AND
STATE
THAT
THE
INFORMATION
GIVEN
IS
TRUE
AND
CORRECT
I
AGREE
TO
the
performance
of
the
work
for
which
thispermit
is
issued.
COMPLY
WITH
ALL
LOCAL
ORDINANCES
AND
STATE
LAWS
RELATING
TO
BUILDING
CONSTRUCTION
AND
I MAKE
THIS
STATEMENT
UNDER
PENALTY
OF
LAW
I HERE,
Sec. 3097, Civ. C). •
BY
AUTHORIZE
REPRESENTATIVES
OF
THIS
CITY/
COUNTY
TO ENTER UPON
THE
ABOVE
MENTIONED
PROPERTY
FOR
INSPECTION
PURPOSES.
NO
CE:
THIS
PERMIT
LENDERS
BECOMES
NULL
AND
VOID
IF
WORK
IS
NOT
COMMENCED
IN IRO
DAYS FROM
DATE
OF ISSUANCE
OR
IF
WORK
IS
SUSPENDED
AT
ANY
TIME
FOR
IRO
DAYS
OR
IF
WORK
IS
PERFORMED
IN
VIOLATION
OF
ANY
CITY
OR
STATE
LAWS
RELATING
THERETO _
NAME
LENDERS
0
Contractor -
F • - ...
fl
s -
ws^,.,
nor
X (
f/
YNAZ
e " 
g-` 
Address of Agent - -
ADDRESS - -
Signature
of Contractor
Owner
or Agent
CITY
STATE
ZIP
TELEPHONE -
578 of 662

--- page 579 ---
APPLICATION FOR APPEAL Date Filed: PPFEBI4 9:59
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20% Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403 Office Use Only

File #:
TO: (J City Council Fee:
[_] Commission Tentative Hearing Date:

(J Zoning Administrator
[| Other; Director of Community Development

Name: TerryMichaud Daytime Phone; 690-212-1800
APPELLANT | Emai;  Ohara.tin@sbcglobal.net
Address) 1611 Borel Place #6, San Mateo, CA 94402

Street City

Project Being Appealed: 330 Villa Terrace
SUBJECT

Address / Location:

State Reasons for Appeal and Particular Areas of Concern (if an appeal of Planning Applications conditions of approval,
please list each condition appealed and the reason for your appeal):

The February 23, 2022 e-mail to Mr. Michaud threatens that if he did not make relocation
payments to the tenant at 330 Villa Terrace, "the City may exercise its discretion to pay the
relocation payments". This threat is not supported by the Code as Mr. Michaud had made an
offer in writing to move the tenant immediately to a replacement dwelling in compliance with
Section 7.50.030(b)(6).

Added Comments or Proposal (if any):

t. ee
LeAnuy WV d 2/24/22
Appellant's Signature /., va Date Oe. DHA Date

f shel +> (Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Please refer to Comprehensive Fee Schedule for appeal filing fees.

hur atthove “om

&nbsp;
579 of&nbsp;662


--- page 580 ---
TIMOTHY S. O'HARA

ATTORNEY AT LAW
1611 Borel Place, Suite 6
San Mateo, CA 94402-3504
Telephone (650) 212-1800
e-mail: ohara.tim@sbeglobal.net

February 24, 2022

Kristin Aiu

Code Enforcement, Community Development
330 W. 20" Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: 330 Villa Terrace
Dear Ms Aiu:

I represent Terry Michaud and Kim Lucia, owners of 330 Villa Terrace.

This is to advise you that they are attempting to comply with the demands made in your
e-mail of February 14. On February 18 Terry Michaud personally delivered an offer in writing
to Martha Obrien, the tenant, to move her immediately to a replacement dwelling. The offer
complied with Municipal Code Section 7.50.030 (b)(6) which states:

“b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, a tenant household shall not be deemed
displaced due to code enforcement activities in any of the following cases:

6. The property owner offers, in writing, to move the tenant household immediately into a
replacement dwelling or room in the same building or complex , and all of the following
are true: (a) the replacement dwelling or room comparable in size, condition and
amenities to the formerly occupied dwelling or room; (b) the replacement dwelling or
room complies with all applicable zoning, building and housing codes; (c) the
replacement rent is no greater than the rent charged for the formerly occupied dwelling or
room; and (d) the offer was made prior to the time the tenant household has taken
definitive steps to move; “

A copy of the offer is enclosed.

On February 23 you sent an e-mail to Mr. Michaud informing him that Ms Obrien
refused to accept the offer.

Your e-mail also threatened that if he did not “pay the relocation payments within 24
hours of today, the City may exercise its discretion to pay the relocation payments.” Your threat
is not supported by the Code. In Section 7.50.030 it states:

&nbsp;
580 of&nbsp;662


--- page 581 ---
“(a) A tenant household shall be eligible for relocation payments from a property owner

the City's code enforcement activities.”

Because Mr. Michaud made an offer that complied with 7.50.030(b) the tenant is not “deemed
displaced.”.

For this reason, Mr. Michaud is filing an appeal to the Director in compliance with
Section 7.50.100. A copy of his appeal is enclosed.

Please understand that Mr. Michaud intends to cease using the subject unit as a dwelling
and intends to bring it into compliance with the City code.

He has begun this process by having Ms Obrien served with a 60 day notice terminating
her tenancy in compliance with California Civil Code Section 1946.2. A copy of the notice is
enclosed.

Very truly yours,
Timothy S. O'Hara
TOH//vf
Encl.
1. Section 7.50.030(b)(6) offer

2. Section 7.50.100 appeal
3. Civil Code Section 1946.2 notice

&nbsp;
581 of&nbsp;662


--- page 582 ---
OFFER TO MOVE TENANT TO A REPLACEMENT DWELLING

This Offer to immediately move you to a Replacement Dwelling is made effective
February 16, 2022 by Terry Michaud and Lucia Kim, Trustees and Marc A. Rochette, co-owner,
hereinafter (“Owners”) to Martha Obrien, Tenant.

WHEREAS, the Owners, owners of the property at 330 Villa Terrace, San Mateo,
California have received a notice to abate a public nuisance, declaration of a substandard
dwelling condition, and notice to vacate the separate cottage you now occupy;

WHEREAS, the unit you now occupy (Unit A) is approximately 350 sq. feet, containing
one bedroom, a bath, and a kitchen having a 24 inch gas stove (approx..) but no separate dining
area, and no parking on site which you rent on a month-to-month basis for $1,645.00 payable
in advance;

WHEREAS, the Owners own a 650 sq. ft. (approx..) unit in a security building at 65
Hemlock Street, Unit 14, Redwood City, which is in a better condition and which has one
bedroom, a bath and a kitchen having a 30 inch (approx..) electric stove with a separate dining
area, and which includes a separate covered carport;

WHEREAS, the Unit on Hemlock complies with all applicable zoning, building and
housing codes;

WHEREAS the Municipal Code of the City of San Mateo requires relocation payments if
an offer of a comparable unit, on comparable terms is not offered (Section 7.50.030) and
requires the right to reoccupancy under certain conditions (Section 7.50.080);

THEREFORE the Owners hereby offer to immediately move you to 65 Hemlock Street,
Unit 14, Redwood City on the following terms:

1. You immediately surrender possession of Unit A at 330 Villa Terrace and agree to
lease unit 14 at 65 Hemlock for a period of 6 months at the rental rate of $1,645 per
month payable in advance commencing immediately;

2. Owners agree to reimburse you for your relocation expenses according to proof in
an amount not to exceed $1,000.00;

3. The Owners and you hereby agree that displacement from the unit at 330 Villa
Terrace will be permanent, and you waive any right under Municipal Code Section
7.50.080 to reoccupy the unit at 330 Villa Terrace;

4. You may elect to receive a refund of your $1,000 security deposit or to have it
applied to the $1,000 security deposit for Unit 14 at 655 Hemlock;

5. Mutual Waiver & Release. The Owners and Martha Obrien mutually agree to a full
and final release of all claim and defenses and as a further consideration and
inducement for thissettlement, agree to waive the provisions of California Civil Code
section 1542, which provides as follows:

&nbsp;
582 of&nbsp;662


--- page 583 ---
6.2.

6.3.

6.4.

6.5.

6.6.

6.7.

6.8.

A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS THAT THE CREDITOR OR
RELEASING PARTY DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER
FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE AND THAT, IF KNOWN
BY HIM OR HER, WOULD HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER
SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR OR RELEASED PARTY.

General Conditions.

Final Agreement. The Owners and Martha Obrien acknowledge that (1) this
Agreement constitutes the full and entire Agreement between them hereto; (2) its
reduction tofinal form is the result of good faith negotiations between the Parties
through their respective legal counsel and each party hereto has cooperated in the
drafting and preparation of the Agreement; (3) said counsel has carefully reviewed
and examined this Agreement for execution by said Parties; (4) any statute or rule of
construction that ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall
not be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement.

Binding Agreement. This Agreement and the releases set forth herein shall be
binding upon and for the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective
successors, devisees, executors, affiliates, representatives, assigns, officers,
directors, partners, agents and employees.

Modifications. This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a
written instrument executed byall the Parties to this Agreement.

No Assignment. The Parties each warrant and represent that they are the only
persons or entities having any interest in any of the matters herein released and
that none of such claims, causes of action, costs or demands or any part thereof
have been assigned, granted, ortransferred inanywaytoany other person, entity
or third party and that no third party has any lien against, interest in, or has
asserted any rights to any of the claims or causes of action released by anyofthe
Parties tothis Agreement andthat each Party to this Agreement has full authority
and ability to settle, resolve, and dismiss Its respective claims.

Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with, and shall
be governed by, the laws of the State of California.

Jurisdiction. TheSan Mateo CountySuperiorCourtshallhavejurisdiction over the
parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6.

Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counter-parts with the same
effect as if all original signatures were placed on one document, and which, when
taken together, shall constitute one original Agreement.

Effective Date. The Parties hereto deem this Agreement to be effective as of the
date that the Agreement is fully executed by all Parties.

&nbsp;
583 of&nbsp;662


--- page 584 ---
6.9. Facsimile Copies of Signatures. Facsimile copies and/or scanned signatures to

this Agreement will betreated as an original signature and will have thesame effect as
an original signature.

6.10. Representationof Authority. The Parties heretowarrantand guaranteethat each

person whosigns this Agreement on behalf of the person/s or entity appearing above
such signature has been duly authorized and has full authority to execute this
Agreement on behalf of the person/s or entity appearing above such signature and
fully bind that party to the terms and obligations of this Agreement.

6.11. Severability. In the event that, at any time after the execution of this

Agreement, any portion or provision of itis found to beillegal, invalid, unenforceable,
non-binding, or otherwise without legal force or effect, the remaining portion(s)
will remain in force and be fully binding.

6.12 Attorneys’ Fees. The Parties waive and release each other from any claims for

7.

attorney’s fees and costs against the other arising out ofor in connection with the
issues identified above. If either party shall bring an action or proceeding against
the other party to enforce anyoftheterms ofthis Agreement, the prevailing party
shall be entitled toan award of reasonable atlomcys' fees and costs.

This offer shall expire at the close of business on February 23, 2022.

So Agreed and Accepted:

Owners Tenant
By: By:

Terry Michaud, Trustee Martha Obrien
By:

Lucia Kim, Trustee

By:
Marc A, Rochette, Co-Owner

&nbsp;
584 of&nbsp;662


--- page 585 ---
60-DAY NOTICE TO VACATE UNDER A NO-FAULT TERMINATION

For Properties Subject to Just Cause Eviction Requirements

NOTE: This form is used by a residential property manager or landlord of a property subject to Just Cause eviction
requirements when the landlord is terminating a month-to-month rental agreement or the occupancy of a tenant paying
rent under an expired lease, and the tenant has resided in the property for one year or more, to terminate the tenancy
under a just cause no-fault eviction and require the tenant to vacate. [Calif. Civil Code §1946.2}

DATE: 2/24 , 2022 _, at San Mateo , California.
To Tenant: Martha Obrien
/tems left blank or unchecked are not applicable.

FACTS: -

1. You are a Tenant under a rental or expired lease agreement
1.1 dated , at San Mateo : , California,
1.2 entered into bv Martha Obrien — , as the Tenant,
1.3 andterry Mich@ud and Kim Luci _ as the Landiord,
1.4 regarding real estate referred w as 330 villa Terrace. Unit A., San Mateo. CA 94401

NOTICE:

2. This notice is intended as at least a sixty (60) day notice prior to termination of your month-to month tenancy.

3. You are the Tenant of a property requiring “just cause” to terminate the tenancy. Reason for no-fault just cause termination:
34005 Hanger or-their spouse, domestic partner, children, grandchildren, parents or grandparents intend to occupy

the premises. ;

32 #09 Withdrawal of the premises from the rental market.
3.3. 4 The premises is unfit for habitation as determined by a government agency and through no fault of Tenant.
3.4 © Landlord intends to demolish or substantially renovate the property.

4. On or before , 20 , a date at least sixty (60) days after service of this notice, you will vacate

and deliver possession of the premises to Landlord or ;
5. Rents due and payable by you prior to the date to vacate include:

5.1. Monthly rent of $ , due , 20 >and

5.2. Prorated rent of $ through the date to vacate, due , 20 .

6. Landlord acknowledges the prior receipt of $ as your security deposit.

6.1 Within 21 days after you vacate, Landlord v ill furnish you with a written statement and explanation of any
deductions from the deposit and a refund of the remaining amount. [Calif. Civil Code §1950.5(g)(1)]
6.2 Landlord may deduct only those amounts necessary to:
a. Reimburse for Tenant defaults in rental payments; ;
b. Repair damages to the premises caused by Tenant (ordinary wear and tear excluded);
Cc. Clean the premises, if necessary; and
d. Reimburse for Tenant loss, damage or excessive wear and tear on furnishings provided to Tenant.

7. Tenant is entitled to relocation assistance when the tenancy is terminated for no-fault just cause. Relocation assistance

is equal to one month's rent ($. ) and is to be made:
7.1. & as a direct payment within 15 calendar days of this notice; OR
7.2 in exchange for Landlord’s waiver of the payment of rent for the final month before becoming due.

8. Landiord may show the leased premises to prospective tenants during normal business hours by first giving you written
notice at least 24 hours in advance of the entry. The notice will be given to you in person, by leaving a copy with an
occupant of suitable age and discretion, or by leaving the notice on or under your entry door.

$ Please contact the undersigned to arrange a time to review the condition of the premises before you vacate.

10. If you fail to vacate and deliver possession of the premises by the date set for you to vacate, legal proceedings may
be initiated to regain possession of the premises and to recover rent owed, treble damages, costs and attorney fees.

11. State law permits former Tenants to reclaim abandoned personal property left at the former address of the Tenant, subject
to certain conditions. You may or may not be able to reclaim property without incurring additional costs, depending on
the cost of storing the property and the length of time before it is reclaimed. In general, these costs will be lower the
sooner you contact your former Landlord after being notified that property belonging to you was left behind after you

moved out.
Date: En-Z2Y ,20_ 22
-Landlord/Agent: Timothy S. O'Hara DRE #:
Sigi ature: “hcdbad S Oe te.

ce

Address: 1611 Borel Pla , San Mateo, CA
Phone: 650-212-1800 Cell:

Fax:

Email:

FORM 569-2 02-20 ©2020 RPI — Realty Publications, Inc., PO. BOX 5707, RIVERSIDE, CA 92517

&nbsp;
585 of&nbsp;662


--- page 586 ---
TIMOTHY S. O'HARA
ATTORNEYAT LAW
161 1 Borel Place, Suite 6
San Mateo, CA 94402-3504
Telephone (650) 212-1800
e-mail : ohara.tim@sbcglobal.net
March15,2022
RE: 
Appeal of Decision to Pay Relocation Costs to Occupant
APPELLANT: Terry Michaud
OCCUPANT: Martha O'Brien
ADDRESS: 330 Villa Terrace, San Mateo
DATE OF HEARING: March 21, 2022,7:00PM.
SUBJECT: Appellant's Exhibit List
Mr. Michaud offers the following exhibits in evience:
I . Municipal Code Section 5.50.030 (relevant parts)
2. Offer to Move Tenant to a Replacement Dwelling dated February 16,2022
3. 24 Photos of replacement dwelling at 65 Hemlock, Apt. 14, Redwood City
4. Municipal Code Section 7.50.090 (relevant part)
5. l,tUD Fair Market Rent FY 2022 San Francisco, CA
6. Quick Summary of Comparable Properties( 19 pages)
Respectfully submiued,
Timothy S. O'Hara
TOH//vf
Encl.
586 of 662

--- page 587 ---
7.50.030 Tenant eligibility for relocation payments.
(a) A tenant household shall be eligible for relocation payments from a property
owner under 
ifthe tenant household is displaced from its dwelling or
room due to the City's code enforcernent activities. For purposes of 
, a
tenant household shall be deemed to be displaced from its dwelling or room due to
code enforcement activities in either of the following circumstances:
1. The tenant household receives a notice from the property owner requiring the
household to vacate or quit the dwelling or room at any time after the city or a court
has issued a notice to vacate, notice to abate life-threatening condition or a declaration
of substandard condition covering that dwelling or room; or
2. The tenant household vacates its dwelling or room (whether or not the property
owner requires vacation) after (a) the city or a court has issued a notice to vacate,
notice to abate life-threatening condition, or declaration of substandard condition
covering that dwelling or room, and (b) the abatement period has expired without
correction of the noncomplying condition (if a time period to abate the noncomplying
condition is specified in such notice or declaration and the City or court does not order
earlier vacation).
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, a tenant homehold shall not be deemed
displaced due to code enforcement activities in any of the following cases:
6. The property owner offers, in writing, to move the tenant household
immediately into a replacement dwelling or room in the same building or
complex , and all of the following are true: (a) the replacement dwelling or
room comparable in size, condition and amenities to the formerly occupied
dwelling or room; (b) the replacement dwelling or room complies with all
applicable zontng, building and housing codes; (c) the replacement rent is no
greater than the rent charged for the formerly occupied dwelling or room; and
(d) the offer was made prior to the time the tenant household has taken
definitive steps to move: or
587 of 662

--- page 588 ---
OFFER TO MOVE TENANT TO A REPLACEMENT DWEIIING
This Offer to immediately move you to a Replacement Dwelling is made effective
February L6,2022 by Terry Michaud and Lucia Kim, Trustees and Marc A. Rochette, co-owner,
hereinafter ("Owners") to Martha Obrien, Tenant.
WHEREAS, the Owners, owners of the property at 330 Villa Terrace, San Mateo,
california have received a notice to abate a public nuisance, declaration of a substandard
dwelling condition, and notice to vacate the separate cottage you now occupy;
WHEREAS, the unit you now occupy (Unit A) is approximately 350 sq. feet, containing
one bedroom, a bath, and a kitchen having a 24 inch gas stove (approx..) but no separate dining
area, and no parking on site which you rent on a month-to-month basis for $1,645.00 payable
in advance;
wHEREAS, the Owners own a 650 sq. ft. (approx..) unit in a security building at 65
Hemlock street, unit 14, Redwood city, which is in a better condition and which has one
bedroom, a bath and a kitchen having a 30 inch (approx..) electric stove with a separate dining
area, and which includes a separate covered carport;
wHEREAS, the unit on Hemrock compries with a[ appricabre zoning, buirding and
housing codes;
WHEREAS the Municipal code of the city of san Mateo requires relocation payments if
an offer of a comparable unit, on comparable terms is not offered (section 7.50.030) and
requires the right to reoccupancy under certain conditions (Section 7.50.0g0);
THEREFoRE the owners hereby offer to immediately move you to 65 Hemlock street,
Unit 14, Redwood City on the following terms:
1. You immediately surrender possession of unit A at 330 villa Terrace and agree to
lease unit 14 at 65 Hemlock for a period of 6 months at the rental rate of g1,G45 per
month payable in advance commencing immediately;
2. owners agree to reimburse you for your relocation expenses according to proof in
an amount not to exceed Sj.,000.00;
3. The Owners and you hereby agree that displacement from the unit at 330 Villa
Terrace will be permanent, and you waive any right under Municipal Code Section
7.50.080 to reoccupy the unit at 330 Villa Terrace;
4. You may elect to receive a refund of your $1,000 security deposit or to have it
applied to the $1,000 security deposit for Unit 14 at 655 Hemlock;
5. Mutual Waiver & Release. The Owners and Martha Obrien mutually agree to a full
and final release of all claim and defenses and as a further consideration and
inducement for thissettlement, agreetowaive the provisions of Ca liforn ia CivilCode
section 1542, which provides asfollows:
588 of 662

--- page 589 ---
A GENERAL RETEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CTAIMS THAT THE CREDITOR OR
RETEASING PARW DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER
FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RETEASE AND THAT, IF KNOWN
BY HIM OR HER, WOUTD HAVE MATERIAI.TY AFFECTED HIS OR HER
SETTLEMENT WITHTHE DEBTOR OR RETEASED PARTY.
6
General Conditions.
Final Asreement. The Owners and Martha Obrien acknowledge that (1) this
Agreement constitutes the full and entire Agreement between them hereto; (2) its
reductiontofinal form is the result ofgood faith negotiations between the parties
through their respective l(€alcounsel and each party hereto has cooperated in the
drafting and preparation of theAgreement; (3) said counsel has carefully reviewed
and examined thisAgreement for execution bysaid parties; (4)anystatute or rule of
construction that ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall
not be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement.
Bindins Apreement. This Agreement and the releases set forth herein shall be
binding upon and for the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective
successors, devisees, executors, affiliates, representatives, assigns, officers,
directors, partners, agents and employees.
Modifications. This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a
written instrument executed by allthe parties to th is Agreement.
No Assisnment. The Parties each warrant and represent that they are the only
persons or entities having any interest in any ofthe matters herein released and
that none of such cla ims, causes of action, costs or demands or a ny part thereof
have been assigned, granted, ortransferred in anywayto anyother person, entity
or third party and that no third party has any lien against, interest in, or has
asserted any rights to any ofthe claims or causes of action released by a ny ofthe
Parties tothis Agreement a nd that each party to this Agreement has fu ll authority
and ability to settle, resolve, and dismiss lts respective claims.
6.1.
R)
6.3.
6.4.
6.5.
6.5.
6.7.
Aoolicable Law. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with, and shall
be governed by, the laws ofthe State of Californ ia.
Jurisdiction.TheSan Mateo Cou ntysuperiorCourtshallhavejurisdiction over th e
parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement pursuant toCodeof Civil Procedure section 664.6.
Counteroarts. This Agreement may be executed in counter-parts with the same
effect as if alloriginal signatures were placed on one document, and which, when
taken together, shall constitute one original Agreement.
Effective Date. The Parties hereto deem this Agreement to be effective as of the
date that the Agreement isfullyexecuted by all Parties.
6.8.
589 of 662

--- page 590 ---
6.9.
Facsimile Cooies of Sienatures. Facsimile copies and/or scanned signatures to
thisAgreement willbetreated as an originalsignature and will havethesame effect as
an original signatu re.
6.10. ReoresentationofAuthoritv. ThePartiesheretowarrantandguaranteethat 
each
person who signs this Agreement on behalfofthe person/s orentity appearing above
such signature has been duly authorized and has full authority to execute this
Agreement on behalf of the person/s or entity appearing above such signature and
fullybind that partyto the terms and obligations of this Agreement.
6.11. Severabilitv. ln the event that, at any time after the execution of this
ABreement, any portion or provision of it isfound to be illegal, invalid, unenforceable,
non-binding, orotherwise without legalforce oreffect, the remaining portion(s)
will remain in force and be fully binding.
6.12 Attornevs' Fees. The Parties waive and release each other from any claims for
attorney's fees and costs against the otherarising out ofor in connection with the
issues identified above. lf either party shall bring an action or proceeding against
the other party to enforce a nyoftheterms ofthas Agreement, the prevailing party
shall be entitled to an award of reasonable atlomcys, fees and costs.
7. 
This offer shall expire at the close of busines s on February 23, 2022.
So Agreed and Accepted:
Owners
Tenant
By:
By:
Terry Michaud, Trustee
Martha Obrien
By:
Lucia Kim, Trustee
By:
Marc A, Rochette, Co-Owner
590 of 662

--- page 591 ---
6O-DAY NOTICE TO VAGATE UNDER A NO.FAULT TERMINATION
or Properties Subject to Just Cause Eviction Requirements
NOTE: This form is used by a residential property manager or landlord of a property subiect to Just Cause evictaon
requirements when the landlord is.terminating a month-to-month rental agreement or the occupancy of a tenant paying
renl under an expired lease, and the tenant has resided in the property for one year or more, io teiminate the tdnjnci
under a just cause no-fault eviction and require the ten^nt to vacate. [Calif. Civil Code g1946.2]
DAf E: 2124 
,2022 , at
To Tenant: Martha Obrien
S n Mateo
California.
Items left blank or unchecked are not applicable.
FACTS:
are a Tenant under a rental or expired lease agreement
dated
nMa
1. You
'1.1
'1.2
1.3
1.4
California,
entered into bv Martha oOrien
as the Tenant.
andTerrv Michfrrd a
regarding r6al estate refenedndK ML
, as the Landlord,
Unit
NOTICE' 
'
2. This notice is intended as at least a sixty.(60) day notice prior to lermination of your month-to monlh tenancy.
3. You are the Tenant ofa property requiring lust cause" to terminate the tenancy. Reason for no-iiuttlust cause termination:
3.1 - Landlord or their spouse, domestic partner, children, grandchildrei, parents or granOpiiinti lntenO io ocdupy
the premises.
3.2 
Withdrawal of the premises from the rental market.
1 9 I The premises is unfit for habitation as determined by a oovemment agency and lhrouqh no fault ot Tenant.
3.4 . Landlord intends to demolish or substantially renovjte t-tre properiy.
4. On or before
20_, 
a date at least sixty (60) days after service of this notice , you will vacate
and deliver possession of the prem ises to Landlord or
5. Rents due and payable by you prior to the
5.1 Monthly rent of $_,
date to vacate include
due
20_; 
and
5.2 Prorated rent of $_ 
through the date to vacate, due _ 
, ZO-.
($
) and is to be made:
ys of this notiae; OR
in 15 calendar da
dlord's waiver of the payment of rent for the llnal month before becoming due
Date:
i.- -?/
,20 Zz--
Landlord/Ag ent: Timothy S. O'Hara
DRE #
6. 
^La_ndlord- ackn^owledges the prior receipt of g_ 
as your security deposit.
b.l 
Wrthln.21 d,ays after you vacate, Landlord v ill furnish you with a ltiritteh statement and exolanation of anv
deductrons trom the deposit and a refund of the remaining amount. [Calif. Civil Code S1950.5(g)(1)]
6.2 Landlord may deduct only those amounts necessary to: -
a. 
Reimburse for Tenant defaults in rental payments;
b. 
Repairdamages to the premises c€used by Tenant (ordinary wear and tear excluded);
c. 
Clean the premises, if necessary; and
d. 
Reimburse for Tenant loss, damage or excessive wear and tear on furnishings provided to Tenant.
7. Tenant is entitled to relocation assistance when the tenancy is terminated for no-fault just cause. Relocation assistance
is equal to one month's rent
7.1 r as a direct payment
7.2 Z in exchange for Lan
8. Landlord may show the leased premises to prospective tenants during normal business hours by first giving you written
notice at least 24 hours in advance of the entry. The notice will be given to you in person, by leaving-a cofy with an
occupant of suitable age and discretion, or by leaving the notice on or under your entry door.
9 Please contact the undersigned to arrange a time to review the condition of the premises before you vacate.
10. If you fail to vacate and deliver po-ssession of the premises by the date set for you to vacate, legal proceedings may
be initiated to regain possession of the premises and to recover rent owed, trebl6 damages, costs-anii attorney-fees. '
11. State law permils formerTenants to rectaim.abandoned personal property left at the former address of the Tenant, subject
to certain conditions. You may or may not be able to reclaim property without incurring additional costs, dependind on
the cost of storing the property and the length of time beiore it is reclaimed. ln geneial, these costs will b; loweithe
sooner you contact your former Landlord after being notified that property belonging to you was lefl behind after you
moved out.
Sigr ature:
(
Address: 1611 Borel Place
San Mateo. CA
Fax:
Email:
FORM s69-2
o2-?0
02020 RPI - Realty Publications, lnc., P.O. BOX 5707, RIVERSIDE, CA 92517
Phone: 65G212-1800 
Call: 
591 of 662

--- page 592 ---
7.50.090 Amount of relocation payments.
(a) Permanent Displacement. An eligible tenant household that will experience
permanent displacanent as defined above shall receive a monetary relocation payment
fiom the property owner equal to three times the current monthly United States
Departrnent of Housing and Urban Development (H[ID) Fair Market Rent for a unit
of comparable size and type to the dwelling or room from which the displacement
occurs, plus a payment not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for actual
moving costs and related expenses incurred by the tenant household and substantiated
by reasonably probative documentation. The property owner shall treat any non-
complying dwelling or room that does not have one or more separate bedrooms as ar
"efficiency unit" for pwposes of determining the applicable HUD Fair Mmket Rent
and calculating the required monetary relocation payment on that basis. ln addition,
the tenant household is entitled to a refund and/or accounting for any security deposit
held by the property owner pursuant to 
. For
purposes of 
, ''HUD Fair Market Rent" means the amount specified in the
schedule of Fair Market Rents for existing housing published by the U.S. Deparhnent
of Housing and Urban Development under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act
of 1937, as amended, applicable to the City of San Mateo and current as of the date
the City or court issues the notice to vacate, notice to abate life-tlreatening condition,
or declaration of substandard condition.
592 of 662

--- page 593 ---
FY 2022 Fern MRRrrr Rerur
Docu M E NTATrolt SysrEM
The FY 2022 San Francisco, CA HUD Metro FMR Area FMRs for
All Bedroom Sizes
ill
Fina! FY 2022 &. Final FY 2021 FMRS By Unit Bedrooms
Efficiency One-Bedroom Two-Bedroom Three-Bedroom
Fou r-Bedroom
Year
FY 2022 FMR
;-ror;*
$2,115
$2,3s0
$2,631
$2,923
$3,198
$3,ss3
$4,1 1 1
$4,s67
$4,473
$4,97o
San Mateo County, CA is part of the San Franclsco, CA HUD Metro FMR Area, which
consists of the following counties: Marin County, CA; San Francisco County, CA; and San
Mateo County, CA. All information here applies to the entirety of the San Francisco, CA
HUD Metro FMR Area.
Fair Market Rent Calculation Methodotogy
Show/ H i de M ethod olog y Na rrative
Fair Market Rents for metropolitan areas and non -metropolitan FMR areas are developed as
follows:
1. 2015-2019 S-year American Community Survey (ACS) estimates of 2-bedroom
adjusted standard quality gross rents calculated for each FMR area are used as the
new basis for FY2O22 provided the estimate is statistically reliable. For Fy2O22, the
test for reliability is whether the margin of error for the estimate is less than 50Vo of
the estimate itself and whether the ACS estimate is based on at least 1OO survey
cases. HUD does not receive the exact number of survey cases, but rather a
categorical variable known as the count indicator indicating a range of cases. An
estimate based on at least 100 cases corresponds to a count indicator of 4 or higher.
If an area does not have a reliable 2015-2019 s-year, HUD checks whether the area
has had at least minimally reliable estimate in any of the past 3 years, or estimates
that meet the 50o/o margin of error test described above, If so, the FY2022 base rent
is the average of the inflated ACS estimates.
If an area has not had a minimally reliable estimate in the past 3 years, the estimate
State for the area's corresponding metropolitan area (if applicable) or State non-
metropolitan area ls used as the basis for FY2O22.
2. HUD calculates a recent mover adjustment factor by comparing a 2019 1-year 40th
percentile recent mover 2-bedrooom rent to the 2015-2019 s-year 40th percentile
593 of 662

--- page 594 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

Residential Lease/Rental Summary

Res. Lease Apt/Condo/LoftiCo-Op/TIC

ACTIVE

Address City Bd Ba DOM Soft $/SqFt Lot(SF) Rent/Mth Age

32 E 40Th Avenue #9 San Mateo 1 10 41 7,038 $0.28 0 (sf) $1,950 63

ACTIVE

# Listings: 1 AVG VALUES: 41 7,038 $0.28 0 (sf) $1,950 63

SOLD

Address City Bd Ba DOM _ Saft S/SQFt Lot (SF) Rent/Mth Age RentedPrc COE
3257 Glendora Drive #K San Mateo 1 10 72 12,234 $0.16 20,735 (sf) $1,995 51 $1,995 12/10/21
817 N Humboldt Street #411 San Mateo 1 10 47 693 $2.88 0 (sf) $1,995 56 $1,995 10/01/21
3223 Glendora Drive #5 San Mateo 1 fo 101 750 $2.66 11,625 (sf) $1,995 57 $1,995 04/28/21
40 W 4Th Avenue #103 San Mateo 1 1J0 21 600 $3.31 12,000 (sf) $2,100 67 $1,983 07/15/21
46 W 4Th Avenue #103 San Mateo 1 1J0 64 15,558 $0.13 12,000 (sf) $1,975 67 $1,975 11/04/21
1226 Second Avenue #5 San Mateo 1 1J0 148 9,816 $0.20 10,000 (sf) $1,975 62 $1,975 09/10/21
46 E 39Th Avenue #3 San Mateo 1 10 6 5,072 $0.38 0 (sf) $2,000 63 $1,950 01/28/22
416 N Bayshore Boulevard #6 San Mateo 1 10 6 5,382 $0.36 0 (sf) $1,950 62 $1,950 01/16/22
729 Highland #4 San Mateo 1 10 937 650 $3.00 7,242 (sf) $1,950 47 $1,950 09/01/24
1300 Palos Verdes Drive #4 San Mateo 1 10 44 14,034 $0.14 650 (sf) $2,100 57 $1,950 05/26/21
151 N Claremont Street #1 San Mateo 1 1J0 23 4,749 $0.41 5,500 (sf) $1,900 67 $1,950 04/07/21
62 E 39Th Avenue #B San Mateo 1 10 29 700 $2.71 12,000 (sf) $1,995 84 $1,900 06/27/21
1516 S Claremont Street #C San Mateo 1 1JO0 12 600 $3.16 6,156 (sf) $1,895 62 $1,895 12/17/21
1520 S Claremont Street #E San Mateo 1 10 29 700 $2.71 6,165 (sf) $1,895 62 $1,895 09/15/21
1516 S Claremont Street #F San Mateo 1 10 117 770 $2.46 6,165 (sf) $1,995 62 $1,895 09/04/21
334 Grand Boulevard #2 San Mateo 1 10 117 750 $2.53 7,500 (sf) $1,895 46 $1,895 06/18/21
416 N Bayshore Boulevard #2 San Mateo 1 1f0 93 5,382 $0.34 6,804 (sf) $1,850 61 $1,850 12/22/21
2655 Edison Street #201 San Mateo 1 10 12 650 $2.77 650 (sf) $1,800 59 $1,800 09/17/21
177 N El Camino Real #2 San Mateo 1 10 87 710 $2.54 2.46 (a) $1,800 72 $1,800 06/04/21
460 East 19Th Avenue #4 San Mateo 1 40 139 650 $2.77 4,346 (sf) $1,950 63 $1,800 07/23/21
326 N Ellsworth Avenue #2 San Mateo 41 1JO0 109 600 $3.00 5,400 (sf) $1,850 121 $1,800 05/31/21
40 22Nd Avenue San Mateo 1 1J0 145 600 $3.00 8,000 (sf) $2,050 71 $1,800 06/01/21
1504 S Claremont #F San Mateo 1 JO 44 500 $3.59 5,000 (sf) $1,795 65 $1,795 02/03/22
1504 Claremont San Mateo 1 10 35 500 $3.59 6,000 (sf) $1,795 61 $1,795 10/12/21
50 & 39Th Avenue #1 San Mateo 41 1J0 37 10,013 $0.18 10,220 (sf) $1,795 65 $1,795 09/04/21
SOLD

# Listings: 25 AVG VALUES: 63 3,707 $1.96 10,854 (sf) $1,932 64 $1,895

# Listings Total: 26 AVG VALUES FOR ALL: 62 3,835 $1.89 10,437 (sf) $1,933 64 $1,895

a nnn NONSENSE
The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.

3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 1 of 19

&nbsp;
594 of&nbsp;662


--- page 595 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

Quick Statistics (26 Listings Total )

Min Max Median
List Price $1,795 $2,100 $1,950

Sale Price $1,795 $1,995 $1,895

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 2 of 19

&nbsp;
595 of&nbsp;662


--- page 596 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

Residential Lease/Rental Brief Report Residential Lease/Rental
32 E 40Th Avenue #9 San Mateo 94403 $1,950 MLS: ML81860489
BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1]0 DOM: 41
Property Overview Pricing / Dates
Area: San Mateo Village/Giendale Village (423) Original: $1,950 Date: 1/26/22
Aqe: 63 List: $1,950 Date: 1/26/22
SaFt: 7,038 Lot: 0 (sf)

$/SaFt $0.28

Remarks

San Mateo Village Beauty. Completely remodeled ... new kitchen, new bath, hardwood floors,
fixtures! A spacious 1 bedroom / 1 bathroom unit, top floor, walk to Hillsdale Shopping Center,
Easy access to Caltrain and HWY 101. Commute? Easy to SF and Silicon Valley or East Bay. Call
today!

Property Features
Bedrooms Additional Rooms
4 --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking

Listed By Terry Michaud, Heritage Realty

40 W 4Th Avenue #103 San Mateo 94402 $2,100 MLS: ML81847777
BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1/0 DOM: 21

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Baywood/Parrott Park (438) Original: $2,100 Date: 6/8/21
Aqe: 67 List: $2,100 Date: 6/8/21

SaFt: 600 Lot: 12,000 (sf) Sold: $1,983 Date: 7/15/21

$/SaFt: $3.31
OffMktDate: 6/29/21

Remarks

Exceptional 1 Bedroom 1 Bath courtyard apartment in Baywood. Walk to downtown San Mateo,
restaurants, shops, Caltrain, multiplex cinema, Central Park and all amenities.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
{ --

Garage/Parking
Assigned

Listed By Edward Stephens, Coldwell Banker Realty

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 3 of 19

&nbsp;
596 of&nbsp;662


--- page 597 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

1300 Palos Verdes Drive #4 San Mateo 94403 $2,100 MLS: ML81838604
DOM: 44

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1|0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Laurelwood Etc. (430) Original: $2,100 Date: 4/12/21
Age: 57 List: $2,100 Date: 4/12/21

SaFt: 14,034 Lot: 650 (sf) Sold: $1,950 Date: 5/26/21

$/SqFt: $0.14
OffMktDate: 5/25/21

Remarks

Spacious One bedroom 1 bath apartment located at 1300 Palos Verdes - cross street is Glendora
drive

Includes:

Updated kitchen & bathroom; new paint; separate dining area; dishwasher; private deck; storage
cabinet; one covered carport; cable-ready; washer/dryer on Premises.

Central forced air heating.

Double Pane windows

Large walk-in closets & window coverings

Laminate hardwood throughout & private balcony

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking

Listed By Jerry Giotinis, Capital Realty Group

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 4 of 19

&nbsp;
597 of&nbsp;662


--- page 598 ---
Quick Summary of Comparabie Properties

40 22Nd Avenue San Mateo 94403 $2,050 MLS: ML81824906
DOM: 145

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1]0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates
| Area: Beresford Manor Etc. (427) Original: $2,450 Date: 1/7/24
Age: 71 List: $2,050 Date: 1/7/21
SqFt: 600 Lot: 8,000 (sf) Sold: $1,800 Date: 6/1/21

$/SqFt: $3.00

OffMktDate: 6/1/21
; Remarks

Nice 1 bedroom, 1 bathroom 1st floor apartment. Includes an eat-in kitchen and detached 1 car
garage with extra storage. New quartz countertops and cabinets in kitchen. New paint and tile
floors throughout. Close to 25th Avenue and Hillsdale Mall. Easy access to 101 and Public
Transportation. This is a nice and quiet 5 unit complex that includes a laundry room. Available
Now. Tenant pays water & PG&E.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 --

Garage/Parking
Detached Garage

Listed By Anthony Ciardella, Beale Properties

46 E 39Th Avenue #3 San Mateo 94403 $2,000 MLS: ML81875115
DOM: 6

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1[0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates
| Area: San Mateo Village/Glendale Village (423) Original: $2,000 Date: 1/20/22
Age: 63 List: $2,000 Date: 1/20/22
| SqFt: 5,072 Lot: 0 (sf) Sold: $1,950 Date: 1/28/22

$/SqFt $0.38
OffMktDate: 1/26/22

Remarks

Spacious remodeled one-bedroom apartment! Consist of easy access to local shops,
restaurants, and freeways. This apartment is located on the second floor and includes stainless
steel appliances such as a refrigerator, stove, and range hood. Within walking distance to Bart,
Hillsdale Shopping Center, and Mollie Stones. Also, the complex includes a coin-operated
washer/dryer with assigned parking, so do not miss out on this beautiful and affordable unit!

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 --

Garage/Parking
Parking Area

Listed By Alexis Camacho Sibrian, Heritage Realty

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 5 of 19

&nbsp;
598 of&nbsp;662


--- page 599 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

3257 Glendora Drive #K San Mateo 94403 $1,995 MLS: ML81864667
DOM: 72

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1|0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Laurelwood Etc. (430) Original: $1,995 Date: 9/29/21
Age: 51 List: $1,995 Date: 9/29/21

SaFt: 12,234 Lot: 20,735 (sf) Sold: $1,995 Date: 12/10/21

$/SqFt: $0.16
OffMktDate: 12/9/21

Remarks

Bright & spacious top floor corner unit located in a quiet neighborhood. This unit has been
updated with new carpet, fresh paint, new window coverings, granite counters and newer
appliances. Property includes one car carport, storage locker and coin operated laundry. Great
location just steps from Laurelwood shopping center and EZ access to 92, 101 & 280. Documents
needed when applying include complete application, copy of drivers license, credit report,
landlord verification form.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 Storage
Garage/Parking

Covered Parking

Listed By Ed Ferguson, Carrick & English R.E.

nt
The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.

3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 6 of 19

&nbsp;
599 of&nbsp;662


--- page 600 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

817 N Humboldt Street #411 San Mateo 94401 $1,995 MLS: ML81858487
DOM: 47

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1/0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Bowie Estate Etc. (416) Original: $2,375 Date: 8/15/21
Age: 56 List: $1,995 Date: 8/15/21

SqFt: 693 Lot: 0 (sf) Sold: $1,995 Date: 10/1/21

S/ISQFt: $2.88
OffMktDate: 9/30/21

Remarks

SHORT-TERM Only. Spacious, quiet, top-floor home in a quiet location with plenty of natural light.
Overlooks the serene, picturesque courtyard.

Resort-like Woodlake boasts large pool, tennis courts, gym, clubhouse, gentle walkways, and
easy 3-minute walk to neighborhood shopping such as Safeway, CVS, Starbucks, Subway, Totoro,

Elite Nails, Chevron, dry cleaner, hair stylist, and more.

Reserved garage parking. Convenient laundry room on the same floor. Southern exposure.
Nearby attractions include Coyote Point regional recreation area. Bicycle the nearby San
Francisco Bay Trail.

Easy access to Hwy 92, 101, 280, 380, and Caltrain. The charming downtowns of Burlingame and
San Mateo are minutes away. Bicycle to Facebook. Just 10-minute drive to San Francisco Airport.

Owner pays water, trash, and HOA dues. Tenant pays electricity (~$30/month) and optional
TV/Internet.

Short-term, Month-to-month only.

Showing Requests and Applications accepted only through svrentals.com

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 Laundry Room
Garage/Parking

Assigned, Detached Garage, Guest / Visitor Parking, Parking Area, Uncovered Parking
Listed By Steve Rumberg, KRC Group Inc

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 7 of 19

&nbsp;
600 of&nbsp;662


--- page 601 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

3223 Glendora Drive #5 San Mateo 94403 $1,995 MLS: ML81826096
BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1|0 DOM: 101

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Laurelwood Etc. (430) Original: $2,100 Date: 1/16/21
Age: 57 List: $1,995 Date: 1/16/21

SaFt: 750 Lot: 11,625 (sf) Sold: $1,995 Date: 4/28/21

$/SQFt: $2.66
OffMktDate: 4/27/21

Remarks

Welcome to this nine unit building located at 3223 Glendora Drive. Located on the top floor, this
unit truly defines “move-in” condition. Priced well below other units in the area, this unit is waiting
for you! One large bedroom with full size closet. One remodeled bath with shower over tub.
Remodeled kitchen with white cabinets and granite counters, refrigerator, electric range/oven

and dishwasher. Living room with balcony. Large common patio area in rear of building. Coin-op
Washer/Dryer in Building.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
4 --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking
Listed By Karon T Knox-Franzella, Berkshire Hathaway Home Services California Realty

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 8 of 19

&nbsp;
601 of&nbsp;662


--- page 602 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

62 E 39Th Avenue #B San Mateo 94403 $1,995 MLS: ML81846507
DOM: 29

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1/0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: San Mateo Village/Glendale Village (423) Original: $1,995 Date: 5/29/21
Age: 84 List: $1,995 Date: 5/29/21

SqFt: 700 Lot: 12,000 (sf) Sold: $1,900 Date: 6/27/21

$/SGFt: $2.71
OffMktDate: 6/24/21

Remarks

This cute one bedroom one bathroom apartment has a covered parking area below and is close

to the Hillsdale shopping mall that contains a perfect combination of local amenities, beautiful and
sunny weather, and excellent apartment homes. Recognized for its stellar school district,
residents choose this community to ensure an outstanding education for their children.

Not only are the great schools attractive, but also the excellent places to shop like Whole Foods
and the Hilisdale Shopping Center Mall. Bay Meadows Park is a 12-acre green space with

bountiful gardens and an outdoor bowling lane, minutes from the county event center and
Hillsdale apartments.

The Hillsdale Rail Station allows for quick commutes throughout the neighborhood, and its only 18
miles from San Francisco.

Property Features
Bedrooms Additional Rooms
4 --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking

Listed By Tim McKeegan, Terrace Associates

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 9 of 19

&nbsp;
602 of&nbsp;662


--- page 603 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

1516 S Claremont Street #F San Mateo 94402 $1,995 MLS: ML81838819
DOM: 117

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1|0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Hayward Park (419) Original: $1,995 Date: 4/13/21
Age: 62 List: $1,995 Date: 4/13/21

SqFt: 770 Lot: 6,165 (sf) Sold: $1,895 Date: 9/4/21

$/SaFt: $2.46
OffMktDate: 8/13/21

Remarks

This property is under new ownership, and they have completely remodeled this first-floor unit
and updated the exterior of the property.

This first-floor unit features granite countertops, tiled floor in the kitchen, electric range, hood,
hardwood laminate floors, new tub and surround in the bathroom, double pane windows, and one
carport parking space.

Conveniently located near shopping, restaurants, Downtown San Mateo, and highways 92 and
101.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms

4 --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking, On Street

Listed By Sean McCarthy, Golden State Property Management

46 W 4Th Avenue #103 San Mateo 94402 $1,975 MLS: ML81860771
DOM: 64

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1|0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Baywood/Parrott Park (438) Original: $2,025 Date: 9/1/21
Age: 67 List: $1,975 Date: 9/1/21

SaFt: 15,558 Lot: 12,000 (sf) Sold: $1,975 Date: 11/4/21

S/SGFt: $0.13
OffMktDate: 11/1/21

Remarks

Cozy On Bedroom apartment in beautiful courtyard building in Baywood. Walk to downtown San
Mateo, Caltrain, cinema, Central Park, San Mateo library, and all conveniences. 20 miles south of
San Francisco and in the art of Silicon Valley, this is the perfect location.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
4 --

Garage/Parking
Assigned
Listed By Edward Stephens, Coldwell Banker Realty

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 10 of 19

&nbsp;
603 of&nbsp;662


--- page 604 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

1226 Second Avenue #5 San Mateo 94401 $1,975 MLS: ML81835616
BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1|0 DOM: 148
Property Overview Pricing / Dates
Area: North Shoreview / Dore Cavanaugh (415) Original: $1,975 Date: 3/24/21
Age: 62 List: $1,975 Date: 3/24/21
SaFt: 9,816 Lot: 10,000 (sf) Sold: $1,975 Date: 9/10/21

$/SqFt: $0.20
OffMktDate: 8/19/21

Remarks

Bright Top floor remodeled unit with custom cabinets, granite counters, new appliances and new
lighting. In addition the unit has new wood floors and a remodeled bath. The unit comes with a one
car carport, storage and coin op laundry in building. Water, Trash and gardener included.
Convenient location close to downtown San Mateo shopping and walking distance to Chavez
Markets, Round table Pizza and other shopping.

Property Features
Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 --

Garage/Parking
Assigned, Covered Parking

Listed By Ed Ferguson, Carrick & English R.E.

416 N Bayshore Boulevard #6 San Mateo 94401 $1,950 MLS: ML81873964
BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1[0 DOM: 6

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: North Shoreview / Dore Cavanaugh (415) Original: $1,950 Date: 1/10/22
Age: 62 List: $1,950 Date: 1/10/22

SqFt: 5,382 Lot: 0 (sf) Sold: $1,950 Date: 1/16/22

S/SqFt: $0.36
OffMktDate: 1/16/22

Remarks

| Spacious fully remodeled one-bedroom apartment, with easy access to local shops, restaurants,
' and freeways. This apartment is located on the second floor, includes stainless steel appliances
such as a refrigerator, stove, and range hood. Also, the complex includes a coin-operated
washer/dryer with assigned carports, storage locker, so do not miss out on this beautiful, and
affordable unit!

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
{ --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking

Listed By Alexis Camacho Sibrian, Heritage Realty

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 11 of 19

&nbsp;
604 of&nbsp;662


--- page 605 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

729 Highland #4 San Mateo 94401 $1,950 MLS: ML81855496
DOM: 37

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1/0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Eastern Addition/Downtown Area (417) Original: $1,950 Date: 7/26/21
Age: 47 List: $1,950 Date: 7/26/21

SaFt: 650 Lot: 7,242 (sf) Sold: $1,950 Date: 9/1/21

$/SqFt: $3.00
OffMktDate: 9/1/21

Remarks

1 bedroom/1bath. Approximately 650 sq ft (unverified). 1 car covered parking space. Unit located
on the 2nd floor. 5 unit building, Landlord pays for water, hot water, sewer, waste disposal and
landscaping. Tenant pays for gas, electricity and cable/internet. Fireplace. Carpeted throughout.
Coin operated laundry room shared with building. New exterior paint. Baseboard electric heating.
Refrigerator, stove/oven and dishwasher included. Close walk to CalTrain, and both San Mateo &
Burlingame DownTowns. Quiet, well managed and maintained building. Great neighborhood. No
smoking. Equal Housing Opportunity.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 Other
Garage/Parking

Covered Parking
Listed By Jonathan T. Ng, RE/MAX Gold of Daly City

460 East 19Th Avenue #4 San Mateo 94403 $1,950 MLS: ML81832899
BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1|0 DOM: 139

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Fiesta Gardens Etc. (420) Original: $1,950 Date: 3/6/21
Age: 63 List: $1,950 Date: 3/6/21

SqFt: 650 Lot: 4,346 (sf) Sold: $1,800 Date: 7/23/21

$/SQFt: $2.77
OffMktDate: 7/23/21

Fiesta Gardens Beauty!! Don't miss this very clean, very nice and very well located one bedroom
unit. Walk to Trader Joe's, Target, Fiesta Garden Shops ... parks, Cal Train and Hwy 101 with easy
access.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking

Listed By Terry Michaud, Heritage Realty

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.

3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 12 of 19

&nbsp;
605 of&nbsp;662


--- page 606 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

151 N Claremont Street #1 San Mateo 94401 $1,900 MLS: ML81834090

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1[0 DOM: 23
Property Overview Pricing / Dates
Area: Eastern Addition/Downtown Area (417) Original: $1,900 Date: 3/15/21
Age: 67 List: $1,900 Date: 3/15/21
SaFt: 4,749 Lot: 5,500 (sf) Sold: $1,950 Date: 4/7/21

$/SqFt: $0.41
OffMktDate: 4/7/21

Remarks

Easy access to 1st floor apartment. Compietely remodeled kitchen and bathroom. Quick walk to
downtown San Mateo and to Caltrain for an easy commute.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking

Listed By Brett Barron, Capital Realty Group

1516 S Claremont Street #C San Mateo 94402 $1,895 MLS: ML81871467

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1/0 DOM: 12
Property Overview Pricing / Dates
Area: Hayward Park (419) Original: $1,895 Date: 12/1/21
Age: 62 List: $1,895 Date: 12/1/21
SqFt: 600 Lot: 6,156 (sf) Sold: $1,895 Date: 12/17/21

$/SqFt: $3.16
OffMktDate: 12/13/21

Remarks
This unit features new granite counter tops, newer tiled floor in the kitchen, newer range, newer

hood, newer kitchen sink, new paint throughout, Laminate Wood Flooring, newer tub and
surround in the bathroom, one carport parking space, and storage locker.

Conveniently located near shopping, restaurants, Downtown San Mateo, and highways 92 and
101.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking, On Street

Listed By Sean McCarthy, Golden State Property Management

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 13 of 19

&nbsp;
606 of&nbsp;662


--- page 607 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

1520 S Claremont Street #E San Mateo 94402 $1,895 MLS: ML81858270
BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1/0 DOM: 29
Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Hayward Park (419) Original: $1,895 Date: 8/13/21
Age: 62 List: $1,895 Date: 8/13/21
| SqFt: 700 Lot: 6,165 (sf) Sold: $1,895 Date: 9/15/21
$/SqFt: $2.74

OffMktDate: 9/10/24

Remarks

his unit features new granite countertops, new cabinets, a new tiled floor in the kitchen, new
range, new hood, new canned lighting in the kitchen, new kitchen sink, remodeled bathroom, new
paint throughout, new carpet, new sliding glass door, and one carport parking space.

Complex features on-site management, and coin-operated laundry.

Conveniently located near shopping, restaurants, Downtown San Mateo, and highways 92 and
101.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
4 --

Garage/Parking
Assigned, Covered Parking, On Street

Listed By Sean McCarthy, Golden State Property Management

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 14 of 19

&nbsp;
607 of&nbsp;662


--- page 608 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

334 Grand Boulevard #2 San Mateo 94401 $1,895 MLS: ML81830780
DOM: 117

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1[0
Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Eastern Addition/Downtown Area (417) Original: $1,950 Date: 2/21/21

Age: 46 List: $1,895 Date: 2/21/21

aFt: 750 Lot: 7,500 (sf) Sold: $1,895 Date: 6/18/21
$/SqFt: $2.53

OffMktDate: 6/18/21
» Remarks
| This fantastic top floor, corner unit has ample natural lighting and a spacious interior. The living

room flows seamlessly into the dining area and kitchen, creating a living space that can be
utilized in a number of different ways. The apartment has a huge walk in closet

Located on Burlingame/San Mateo border and in between the two downtowns. Comes with one
parking space and storage locker.

Call/Text/Email

Michael Silva

650-532-3134
capitalrg.rentals@gmail.com

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
4 --
Garage/Parking

Assigned, Covered Parking

Listed By Michael Silva, Capital Realty Group

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 15 of 19

&nbsp;
608 of&nbsp;662


--- page 609 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

416 N Bayshore Boulevard #2 San Mateo 94401 $1,850 MLS: ML81863414
DOM: 93

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1|0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: North Shoreview / Dore Cavanaugh (415) Original: $1,850 Date: 9/20/21
Age: 61 List: $1,850 Date: 9/20/21

SqFt: 5,382 Lot: 6,804 (sf) Sold: $1,850 Date: 12/22/21

SISGFt: $0.34
OffMMktDate: 12/21/21

Remarks

Spacious fully remodeled 1 bedroom apartment with easy access to local shops, restaurants,
and freeways. This apartment is located on the ground floor, includes stainless steel appliances
such as a refrigerator, stove and range hood. Also, the complex includes coin-operated
washer/dryer with assigned carports, storage locker, so do not miss out on this beautiful, and
affordable unit!

Property Features
Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 a+

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking

Listed By Janay Michaud, Heritage Realty

326 N Ellsworth Avenue #2 San Mateo 94401 $1,850 MLS: ML81829403
DOM: 109

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1/0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Eastern Addition/Downtown Area (417) Original: $1,900 Date: 2/11/21
Age: 121 List: $1,850 Date: 2/11/21

SqFt: 600 Lot: 5,400 (sf) Sold: $1,800 Date: 5/31/21

$/SqFt: $3.00
OffMktDate: 5/31/21

Remarks

Welcome to sunny San Mateo. This apartment offers $1900 monthly rent. $1900 security deposit
(depending on financial background). Landlord pays water and sewer. Tenant pays gas,
electricity, cable/internet and garbage. New engineered wood floors. Newly updated kitchen.
Newly updated bathroom. New paint throughout. Assigned parking right in front of the property. 4
units in the entire building. No smoking. Cats are allowed with pet deposit and pet rent. Equal
housing opportunity

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 _

Garage/Parking
Assigned

Listed By Jonathan T. Ng, RE/MAX Gold of Daly City

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 16 of 19

&nbsp;
609 of&nbsp;662


--- page 610 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

2655 Edison Street #201 San Mateo 94403 $1,800 MLS: ML81859044
DOM: 12

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1/0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: Beresford Manor Etc. (427) Original: $1,800 Date: 8/19/21
Age: 59 List: $1,800 Date: 8/19/21

SqFt: 650 Lot: 650 (sf) Sold: $1,800 Date: 9/17/21

$/SqFt: $2.77
OffMktDate: 8/31/21

Remarks

Show by appointment only *** Fair Housing & Equal Opportunity .

Property Features
Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 Storage

Garage/Parking
Underground Parking

Listed By Blaise Lin, Acel Realty

177 N El Camino Real #2 San Mateo 94401 $1,800 MLS: ML81833286
DOM: 87

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1/0

y Property Overview Pricing / Dates

| Area: San Mateo Park / El Cerrito Park (439) Original: $2,350 Date: 3/9/21

| Age: 72 List; $1,800 Date: 3/9/21
SqFt: 710 Lot: 2.46 (a) Sold: $1,800 Date: 6/4/21

$/SqFt: $2.54
OffMktDate: 6/4/21

Remarks

Light, bright first floor 1 bedroom, 1 bathroom condo walkable to the main library and downtown
San Mateo. Private pool with bbqs and a changing room with showers, surrounded by mature
landscaping. Galley-style kitchen with pass through to dining area, newer appliances, hardwood
floors and dual-pane windows, On-site washer/dryer. Water, garbage and heat included in rent.
Extra storage closet measuring 7‘ high x 3.5' wide x 6.5’ deep, perfect for bikes, luggage, etc.
Dedicated parking spot for unit in front of entrance. Move-in immediately. 12 month lease
preferred. Credit check with application. Move in fee of $300 required. Call Denise for more
information at 650.307.2240.

Property Features

Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 Laundry Room, Storage

Garage/Parking
Assigned

Listed By Denise Cronan, Cronan Real Estate Services, Inc.

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 17 of 19

&nbsp;
610 of&nbsp;662


--- page 611 ---
Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

1504 S Claremont #F San Mateo 94402 $1,795 MLS: ML81872935
DOM: 44

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1[0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: 19th Avenue Park / Sunnybrae (418) Original: $1,795 Date: 12/21/21
Age: 65 List: $1,795 Date: 12/21/21

SqFt: 500 Lot: 5,000 (sf) Sold: $1,795 Date: 2/3/22

S/ISQFt: $3.59
OffMktDate: 2/3/22

Remarks

Property Features
Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking

Listed By Sally Navarro, A.V.R. Realty, Inc.

1504 Claremont San Mateo 94402 $1,795 MLS: ML81861521
DOM: 35

BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1|0

Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: 19th Avenue Park / Sunnybrae (418) Original: $1,795 Date: 9/7/21
Age: 61 List: $1,795 Date: 9/7/21

SqFt: 500 Lot: 6,000 (sf) Sold: $1,795 Date: 10/12/21

S/ISGFt: $3.59
OffMktDate: 10/12/21

Remarks

Tastefully done one bedroom with extra closet, laminated wood floors nice cabinets, plus patio off
the kitchen. Covered parking for one vehicle.

Hurry this will go fast.

small apartment complex.

Please note all square footage is approximate only.

Property Features
Bedrooms Additional Rooms
1 --

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking

Listed By Sally Navarro, A.V.R. Realty, Inc,

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
3/8/2022 Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 18 of 19

&nbsp;
611 of&nbsp;662


--- page 612 ---
Property Features

Bedrooms
4

Garage/Parking
Covered Parking

Listed By Janay Michaud,

3/8/2022

Quick Summary of Comparable Properties

50 E 39Th Avenue #1 San Mateo 94403 $1,795 MLS: ML81855818
BedsBaths (F/ Baths (F/P): 1/0 DOM: 37

| Property Overview Pricing / Dates

Area: San Mateo Village/Glendale Village (423) Original: $1,795 Date: 7/28/21
Age: 65 List: $1,795 Date: 7/28/21
SqFt: 10,013 Lot: 10,220 (sf) Sold: $1,795 Date: 9/4/21
$/SqFt: $0.18

OffMktDate: 9/3/21
_ Remarks

An updated ground floor unit, Featuring an updated kitchen, bathroom, and double pane windows.
~ Includes a stainless steal refrigerator, gas stove, one covered carport space. Less than a mile

drive from Hillsdale Shopping Center, Mollie Stones Market and other attractions. In addition a
mile or less drive to San Mateo Medical Center and CVS pharmacy. No pets and non smoker. Easy
access to 101, Cal Train, and other transportation.

Additional Rooms

Heritage Realty

The above information is deemed to be accurate but not guaranteed.
Presented By: Terry Michaud, Phone: (650) 349-9300 Page 19 of 19

&nbsp;
612 of&nbsp;662


--- page 613 ---
From:
Clerk
To:
Christine Civiletti; Kristen Aiu
Subject:
FW: 330 Villa Terrace Appeal Part 3 of 4 Michaud Exhibits
Date:
Wednesday, March 16, 2022 12:19:44 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
image003.png
 
 
 
Joan Diskin  (she/her)
Deputy City Clerk
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7044 | jdiskin@cityofsanmateo.org
 
From: Timothy OHara <ohara.tim@sbcglobal.net> 
Sent: Tuesday, March 15, 2022 2:19 PM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Erin Fellers <efellers@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Fw: 330 Villa Terrace Appeal Part 3 of 4 Michaud Exhibits
 
Timothy S. O'Hara
Tel. 650-212-1800
 
----- Forwarded Message -----
From: Terry Michaud <terry@hr1107.com>
To: "ohara.tim@sbcglobal.net" <ohara.tim@sbcglobal.net>
Sent: Tuesday, March 15, 2022, 01:58:50 PM PDT
Subject: Fwd: 330 Villa Terrace Appeal
 
65 Hemlock Avenue, Redwood City
 
 
 
65 Hemlock Ave #14 pictures 
&nbsp;
613 of&nbsp;662

--- page 614 ---
614 of 662


--- page 615 ---
&nbsp;
615 of&nbsp;662


--- page 616 ---
&nbsp;
616 of&nbsp;662


--- page 617 ---
Alt

—— AA

ad f

smmmn cnnnys

&nbsp;
617 of&nbsp;662


--- page 618 ---


--- page 619 ---
&nbsp;
619 of&nbsp;662


--- page 620 ---
&nbsp;
620 of&nbsp;662


--- page 621 ---
621 of 662


--- page 622 ---
&nbsp;
622 of&nbsp;662


--- page 623 ---
&nbsp;
623 of&nbsp;662


--- page 624 ---
Terry Michaud, Broker
Heritage Realty
1107 South B Street
San Mateo, CA 94401
650-349-9300 office
650-349-8483 fax
650-520-1022 mobile
www.heritagerealtysanmateo.com
DRE #00365928
 
 
&nbsp;
624 of&nbsp;662

--- page 625 ---
From:
Joyce Diaz
To:
Terry Michaud
Subject:
More Pictures 65 Hemlock Ave #14
Date:
Tuesday, March 15, 2022 11:36:18 AM
The email doesn’t let me attach more pictures to original email limit exceed.
Here are the rest of the pictures:
625 of 662

--- page 626 ---
&nbsp;
626 of&nbsp;662


--- page 627 ---
627 of 662


--- page 628 ---
628 of 662


--- page 629 ---
629 of 662


--- page 630 ---
630 of 662


--- page 631 ---
631 of 662


--- page 632 ---
632 of 662


--- page 633 ---
633 of 662



--- page 634 ---
634 of 662


--- page 635 ---
-- 
Best Regards,
Joyce Diaz | Inspector | Property Manager
Heritage Realty Established 1975 | Residential | Commercial | Investment | Property
Management
1107 South B Street San Mateo, CA 94401 | Office Hours of Operations: Monday - Friday
8:30 am to 5:00 pm. 
635 of 662

--- page 636 ---
TIMOTHY S. O'HARA
ATTORNEYATLAW
1611 Borel Place, Suite 6
San Mateo, C A 9 4402-3504
Telephone (650) 212-1800
e-mail: ohara.tim@sbcglobal.net
RE: 
Appeal of Decision to Pay Relocation Costs to Occupant
APPELLANT: Terry Michaud
OCCUPANT: Martha O'Brien
ADDRESS: 330 Villa Terrace, San Mateo
DATE OF F{EARING: March21,2022,7:00 P.M.
SUBJECT: Appellant's Potential Witnesses
Terry Michaud
Respectfrrll
submitted,
/ tttto
Timothv S O'Hara
TOtV/vf
March 15,2022
t/t^--
636 of 662

--- page 637 ---
ILED REPORT (CE-2022-000006)

Case Type: CE - Maintenance Project: Opened Date: 01/26/2022
Status: Substantiated District: San Mateo Closed Date: NOT CLOSED
Description: Possible substandard housing issues Assigned To Kristen Aiu

Address: 330 Villa Ter
Suite: A
San Mateo, CA 94401-2219

032161050

Parcel:

Property Owner
Martha O'Brien Terry Michaud
330 Villa Ter 1107 B Street
Suite: A San Mateo, CA 94401

San Mateo, CA 94401-2219

2
March 10, 2022 Page 1 of 4
&nbsp;
637 of&nbsp;662


--- page 638 ---
Note Created By
. 01/27/2022, |, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, conducted site visit with Kristen Aiu

s. O'Brien. | observed the sewer clean out was uncapped
with residue near and around the opening. The tenant then
showed me that racoons come under the house, but she puts
plywood over the holes between the bottom of the house and
the hole. | inspected inside the unit and saw the water heater
inside the kitchen but was unable to locate the year of the
water. It did appear to be newer. | then inspected the bathroom
toilet and saw water residue behind the toilet and saw the toilet
crookedly placed. Ms. O'Brien stated that there had been
several plumbers who have stopped by but the issue
continually occurs. Ms. O'Brien thinks the plumbers aren't fixing
the sewer. Ms. O'Brien also mentioned that the electricity goes
off when the heater and another item like a toaster is on. |
inspected the sub panel outside on the house and saw some
faulty wiring and other issues. When back in the office | had
internal meeting with CEM and the Building Official, Mike T. It
was determined that the subpanel is a fire hazard and needs to
be immediately addressed. Per Mike T. if the-electrical is not
inspected/assessed by a licensed electrician within 24/48
hours, then the house could be red tagged and possibly
relocation. It was also decided that all panels on the parcel
should be inspected as well. | received the property owner,
Terry M, contact informatio! ind
notified him of the electrical and what needed to be done. | then
prepared an abatement notice which was emailed the the tenant
Ms. O'Brien and to the PO Terry, separately. | also mailed a copy
to all tenants.

. 02/02/2022, |, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, met with Carlos from CA Kristen Aiu
Electric LIC # 874972 at City Hall. He explained that he
conducted an inspection of just the maim panel for unit A and B.
Carlos stated he has temporarily made the panel safe and is no
longer a fire hazard. Mike T. was also present and was
satisfied with the temporary emergency repairs and the
proposed improvements to make the panels safe. Regarding
unpermitted conversion of a storage structure to habitable
space, per Mike T, we cannot regulate the size of the panel for
the garage/storage structure. Therefore the proposed work for
the electric is allowed and will proceed. | asked Carlos if he had
inspected all the units inside, he stated he had been at the
property 2/3 times since Thursday. Has looked at Unit B's light
fixture and there were no issues, just replaced the fixture.

Other than that, he hasn't inspected the interior of all units. |

notified Carlos, that | required the owner to have him inspected
all electrical on the property but we will discuss with the owner.
Permit was issued and letter from Carlos included in case files.

RESEARCH:

After reviewing the past permits on the property, there was little
information on the structures. What was found was a 1991
permit that states, cottage to be converted to a storage unit.
Based on this permit and the lack of other permits on file, | have
concluded that Unit A is not a legal habitable unit and will either
need to be converted back to a storage structure or apply to be
legalized as a separate unit. This violation also does not qualify
for delayed enforcement since there is already an existing ADU
(unit B) on the property. Unit A would need its own separate
address to possible be allowed. Need to confirm with planning
if they would allow this.

Date and Time Created
1/27/2022 5:28 pm

2/2/2022 11:18 am

NL

March 10, 2022

Page 2 of 4

&nbsp;
638 of&nbsp;662


--- page 639 ---
CODE DETAILED REPORT (CE-2022-000006)

3. 02/08/2022, |, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, met with Planner Wendy _ Kristen Aiu 2/8/2022 11:01 am
and CEM Christine C. where we discussed the PO's option
regarding the illegally converted unit. Per Wendy, the property
can‘legally have a 2nd unit, not ADU, and will need to submit a
planning application. Wendy will be sending a copy of the
planning application check list and application. | also scheduled a
meeting with CAO Linh to discuss the tenant's possible
permanent location. Final inspection for MEP-2022-283544 was
finaled.

4. 01/31/2022, |, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, conducted a follow up site Kristen Aiu 2/15/2022 8:05 am
visit to check to see if the tenant had heat. When inspecting the
heater, which was located in the living room, it is connected to
the gas and was working. it was hard to confirm if the heat
reaches other rooms since the living room door, kitchen window
and bedroom window was open. | retested the carbon
monoxide alarm and it was inoperable. | then saw a closet
behind the wall of the water heater. There appeared to be
newer romex wiring but | wasn't sure what it was going to or
what it was for. Inspected the bedroom fire alarm and it wasn't
on the ceiling. | then noticed, in the bedroom, that the ceiling was
missing some paneling and was drooping. The Tenant stated
there was water damage and when it rains the water drips
from the ceiling.

5. 02/14/2022, |, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, prepared notice to abate ‘Kristen Aiu 2/15/2022 8:05 am
with substandard conditions and notice to vacate. I‘mailed a
copy to the PO mailing address, emailed a copy to the PO email,
and hand delivered the notice to the Tenant. | also received an
email from the tenant stating there is mold in her bathroom and
someone will be coming out to the property. | contacted the
tenant and scheduled a site visit appointment this afternoon,
where i provided the notice. While at the property | captured
more photos. | inspected the bathroom for the mold and saw
mold near the cracks between the bath tub and the bath tub
walls. It appears the caulking needed to be replaced and the
reason for the mold was because the water was going into the
cracks. | also observed mold on the ceiling. | also took another
look at the area near the toilet, with the lights off, and saw light
coming out from the crack where the wall and floors meet. |
asked the Tenant if she was still having plumbing issues and
she stated there hasn't been a back up since my last visit. In
some bedrooms, there were windows open without screens,
no GFCI outlets for the kitchen outlet near the sink.

6. 02/22/2022, |, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, received call from the Kristen Aiu 2/23/2022 9:15 am
tenant's Attorney, Nicholas Jellings asking if the City can take on
the costs of the permanent relocation since the PO has not paid
the tenant, referencing 7.50.060 (b) . | asked if the tenant would
be ok with being relocated to another one of the property
owner's units/houses. He said the owner isn't giving the tenant
the option, which she is entitles to.
7. 02/23/2022, |, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, contacted tenant to verify Kristen Aiu 2/23/2022 2:25 pm
if she wanted to accept the replacement dwelling the PO was
offering. The Tenant stated no and wants the relocation
payments. | prepared a final notice giving the PO 24 hrs to pay
the tenant the relocation payments. | emailed a copy of the
Notice to the tenant and mailed the hard copies to both parties.

i anne

March 10, 2022 Page 3 of 4

&nbsp;
639 of&nbsp;662


--- page 640 ---
LED REPORT (CE-2022-000006)

8. 02/24/2022, |, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, received email from PO Kristen Aiu 2/24/2022 1:39 pm
stating his attorney will be at City Hall to submit an appeal. After
review of the appeal the owner is stating that per section
7.50.030 (b)(6) the owner has provided a replacement dwelling
which the tenant has to accept. The appeal was provided to the
director and will be reviewed. | then emailed the Attorney and
PO stating we have received the appeal and payment and to
also provide a copy to the tenant. | then contacted the tenant to
Confit irm her rent and it does match the appeal of 1 645

9. 02/28/2022, 1, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, was contacted by tenant ——‘Kristen Aiu 2/28/2022 4:35 pm
Ms. Obrien. Ms. Obrien asked for an update for the appeal. She
then asked when the appeal was scheduled to be. | stated
March 21st, but she will receive a copy of the notice by Friday.
Since Ms. Obrien contacted my work cell, | respectfully ask she
call my work landline first since | don't monitor my cell calls. but
to of course call my cell as a back up. Ms. Obrien then sent an
angry email (Attached) asking to talk with my supervisor.
Provided tenant with CEM Christine C. contact information.

40. 03/02/2022, I, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, received call from Tenant's Kristen Aiu 3/2/2022 4:18 pm
Attorney asking for an update on the relocation payments. |
notified him of the appeal from the owner. | also provided the
owner “with a | Copy of the appeal \ via email.

11. 03/04/2022, |, Kristen Aiu, CEO CSM, mated a copy ‘at the notice Kristen Aiu 3/4/2022 2:45 pm
of public hearing to the proeprty owner, tenant, and both their

attorney's via mail and email. | also emailed a copy to the City

Clerk, Joan and Erin.

Invoice No. Fee Fee Amount Amount Paid

$0.00
Total for Invoice $0.00
Grand Total for Permit $0.00
InspectionEndDate: ComplianceDate:
Code Status: ResolvedDate:
Violation Code: CitationlssuedDate:

a
March 10, 2022 Page 4 of 4
&nbsp;
640 of&nbsp;662


--- page 641 ---
641 of&nbsp:662



--- page 642 ---
642 of&nbsp:662



--- page 643 ---
ON 2772022 14°58

643 of&nbsp:662



--- page 644 ---
~

&nbsp;
644 of&nbsp;662



--- page 645 ---


--- page 646 ---
*
PD
a)

AQ
Ne)
aoa
a
n
2
|
&
i)
RS)
+
NS)



--- page 647 ---
’

t

Via Mo2 I teesy

647 of &nbsp:662



--- page 648 ---
01/27/2022 RA aT
a |

¥ x x
.¢4 \ Ww
" 4

aes >

648 of&nbsp:662



--- page 649 ---
“49

62214

¥

J »


--- page 650 ---
4 4 ' ig ii

1)
|

"

650 of&nbsp;662



--- page 651 ---
OI O22e S35

651 of&nbsp;662



--- page 652 ---
OM AVZ0Z2> Va 32

652 of&nbsp;662



--- page 653 ---
653 of 662



--- page 654 ---
QZI14/ 2022 14:33

654 of&nbsp;662



--- page 655 ---


--- page 656 ---
656 of&nbsp:662



--- page 657 ---
VZ/14/ 2022 14.29

657 of&nbsp;662



--- page 658 ---
02/14/2022 14:33



--- page 659 ---
A hy ~ tl on a |

659 of&nbsp:662



--- page 660 ---
OI SIV2ZOZ2 15:31

660 of&nbsp:662



--- page 661 ---
661 of&nbsp;662


--- page 662 ---
Potential Witnesses 
City Witness:
Kristen Aiu, Code Enforcement Officer II
Potential Witness:
Martha O’Brien – Tenant
662 of 662