Officers accused of misusing Flock cameras Skip to content Cream of the Crop Daybreak Mug Club Shenandoah Valley Obits We the People Star-Spangled Sing-Off News Weather Live Sports Video Contests Contact Us Advertise with Us News Local Events Air 3 Now on 3 Virginia Weekend Valley of Valor We the People American Heart Month Aging Untold National Politics State Weather Special Coverage Breast Cancer Awareness Month Weather Weather Maps Local Currents Weather News Stories Climate Data/Averages Weather History Other Weather Links SkyCams Closings Elections Election Results Voter Guide Sports Sports Xtra Sideline Roots James Madison Local Colleges High School Charlie Obaugh Auto Group Student Athlete of the Week Signing Day Live Video Live Newscasts Lessons Learned Now on 3 Screens and Stages Sports Xtra Sideline Roots A Local Look Closings Contact Us Meet the Team News & Weather Apps Advertise With Us VA Job Connections WHSV Careers Contests Community Community Calendar Tell Me Something Good Black History Month Working for Wellness Birthdays and Anniversaries Submit a Birthday/Anniversary Shenandoah Valley Obits Taste of the Valley Recipes Shenandoah Valley Obits Lottery Sponsored Black History Month American Heart Month Sentara Community Impact Ask the Experts at Aire Serv. Premier Places to Work Healthwise Building Our Communities MomsEveryday Air 3 TV Listings Submit Photos and Videos NextGen TV Circle Country PowerNation Local News Live InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy Officers accused of misusing Flock cameras A DeKalb County deputy and three Fayetteville police officers were fired for allegedly misusing Flock camera systems in separate incidents. (Source: ANF) By Atlanta News First staff and Gray News staff Published: Jul. 18, 2026 at 6:35 PM UTC | Updated: 17 hours ago Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google ATLANTA ( ANF /Gray News) — The Fayetteville Police Department fired three of its officers after they allegedly misused the Flock camera system, the department announced on July 17. According to police, testing of a new auditing feature revealed that the officers had conducted searches outside their scope of work — including looking for their own plates or those of friends and family. The three, who have not been identified, were put on administrative leave before being terminated. ANF INVESTIGATES: Flock says its cameras don’t track people. Its own training videos say otherwise “The department will not speculate regarding the intent behind those searches,” the police department said in a statement. “However, searches of this nature are subject to strict scrutiny and were determined to have been conducted without a legitimate law-enforcement purpose, thereby constituting a violation of department policy.” The police department asked the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to conduct a criminal investigation. No charges have been announced yet. Several law enforcement officers in north Georgia have recently been accused of searching through the system for reasons unrelated to their jobs. In June, a Greene County deputy was arrested and fired — and later that month, three Cherokee County deputies were as well . An Atlanta News First Investigation previously found that Flock cameras were being used for more than just investigating crimes. Information about when a car was seen at a specific location remains in the database for 30 days and is shared with hundreds of external agencies. Some cameras are also designed to follow people as they walk. The system has prompted nationwide protests, with activists concerned about the possible invasion of privacy. Earlier this month in Barrow County, the sheriff’s office said it was looking for vandals who damaged several Flock cameras , cutting down camera poles and severing solar power equipment. Copyright 2026 ANF via Gray Local Media, Inc. All rights reserved. Most Read VDOT responds to traffic concerns surrounding campground proposal Mother charged with murder for killing man she found sneaking into her daughter’s bedroom, police say FIRST ALERT: Wildfire smoke and haze make a return How to stop Canadian wildfire smoke from getting into your home ‘He loved everybody’: Father remembers teen son killed alongside friend in dirt bike crash Taylor Farms recalls iceberg lettuce linked to ‘explosive diarrhea’ outbreak as cases near 7,000 Strasburg man arrested on drug charges, failure to pay child support Warner talks efforts to increase affordable housing during visit to Harrisonburg Latest News US strikes Iran’s Revolutionary Guard over attack that killed American troops in Jordan Nurse adopts 2-year-old girl she treated as a baby in the NICU NICU nurse adopts toddler she treated as a baby Bison charges grandfather at Yellowstone, sending him flying into the air Bison attack at Yellowstone sends grandfather flying into the air Wildfire smoke blankets millions across US. When will it end? ‘A light in so many lives’: Mom who beat cancer killed by falling tree branch Family mourns mom killed when tree branch falls on car during storm News Weather Sports Contact Us WHSV 50 North Main Street Harrisonburg, VA 22802 (540) 433-9191 Terms of Service Privacy Policy EEO Statement FCC Applications Public Inspection File publicfile@whsv.com - (540) 433-0350 Digital Marketing Advertising Closed Captioning/Audio Description YOUR PRIVACY CHOICES Cookie Settings Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search