Elkton police defends use of Flock cameras as residents question transparency Skip to content Cream of the Crop Daybreak Mug Club Shenandoah Valley Obits We the People Star-Spangled Sing-Off News Weather Live Sports Video Contests Contact Us Advertise with Us News Local Events Air 3 Now on 3 Virginia Weekend Valley of Valor We the People American Heart Month Aging Untold National Politics State Weather Special Coverage Breast Cancer Awareness Month Weather Weather Maps Local Currents Weather News Stories Climate Data/Averages Weather History Other Weather Links SkyCams Closings Elections Election Results Voter Guide Sports Sports Xtra Sideline Roots James Madison Local Colleges High School Charlie Obaugh Auto Group Student Athlete of the Week Signing Day Live Video Live Newscasts Lessons Learned Now on 3 Screens and Stages Sports Xtra Sideline Roots A Local Look Closings Contact Us Meet the Team News & Weather Apps Advertise With Us VA Job Connections WHSV Careers Contests Community Community Calendar Tell Me Something Good Black History Month Working for Wellness Birthdays and Anniversaries Submit a Birthday/Anniversary Shenandoah Valley Obits Taste of the Valley Recipes Shenandoah Valley Obits Lottery Sponsored Black History Month American Heart Month Sentara Community Impact Ask the Experts at Aire Serv. Premier Places to Work Healthwise Building Our Communities MomsEveryday Air 3 TV Listings Submit Photos and Videos NextGen TV Circle Country PowerNation Local News Live InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy Elkton police defends use of Flock cameras as residents question transparency Elkton police are defending their use of Flock Safety cameras, but some residents are concerned with the technology and their implementation. By Mason Willett Published: May 29, 2026 at 10:14 PM UTC | Updated: 7 hours ago Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google ELKTON, Va. (WHSV) - Elkton police are defending their use of Flock Safety cameras — license plate reading technology designed to help investigate crimes and locate missing people. However, some residents say the issue isn’t just the cameras; it’s how they were brought into the community. The license plate reading system was installed in 2024, using Virginia State Police HEAT grant funding . However, Zachary Caudle, an Elkton resident, said he didn’t learn about the three cameras until four months ago. “The biggest concern I have about it is the transparency from the town and the police department,“ Caudle said. “It seemed like it was done purposely behind everyone’s head and no one knew about it.” Caudle said he believes the cameras collect more than just license plates, pointing to what Flock calls vehicle fingerprinting, which can identify vehicles by features like dents, stickers, or body damage. He argues that amount of data creates privacy concerns and said he would like the cameras removed. “I don’t think a town of this size, a peaceful town. Everyone here is so nice, just doesn’t need something like that for policing,” Caudle said. “The town manager basically signed a terms of service box for the residents of 3,000 people without our consent, and we have no way to opt out of it.” Elkton Police Sgt. Ryan Insana called that description misleading and said the cameras are used only for legitimate criminal justice purposes under Virginia law. As for the town manager’s decision, Insana said since the purchase was less than $30,000 and was paid for using grants, the town council didn’t have to vote on this. “We can’t just get on there and look at Joe Smith who lives on B Street in town and see where he travels,” Insana said. “We can’t do that. It’s a class 1 misdemeanor if we were to do that.” Insana said the town tries to be transparent with the Flock cameras, including with a transparency portal on their website , which shows data over a three-week period and policies for the use of the cameras. “If this one tool can help us solve crimes more efficiently and get justice for victims, then we’ll continue to use it until we’re told otherwise,” he said. Insana said the equipment would also have prevented issues with investigations for the Subway and gun store break-ins where no cameras or eyewitnesses were around. “With the attempted breaking and entering, our case went kind of cold on that, so we put it there to mitigate future incidences. If an incident does occur, then at least we have somewhere to look into,” Insana said. “If we would have had that technology or this technology then, maybe it would have given us a starting point to see what that vehicle was.” While Insana said the technology is carefully regulated and used to improve public safety, residents like Caudle continue to push for more answers and greater public discussion about how this technology is used in Elkton. Copyright 2026 WHSV. All rights reserved. Most Read ‘Absolutely tragic’: Multiple people killed, dozens injured in I-95 crash Vitamins sold at Amazon, TikTok, Walmart, Target recalled for salmonella risk Richmond woman convicted of defrauding Waynesboro business after guilty plea Valley veterinarians see early spike in ‘highly contagious’ parvovirus cases Strasburg residents raise concerns over proposed data center spanning 80-acre parcel VHSL region tournament scores and highlights: May 28, 2026 48-year-old father dies leading son’s Cub Scout troop at popular hiking spot Latest News Annual Fireman’s Parade held in Timberville Timberville hosts annual Fireman's parade Keezletown beekeeper shares how weather conditions affect honeybees Beekeepers discuss how weather conditions impact honeybees VDOT: Weekend work causing overnight closure on I-81 near Staunton Southbound I-81 to close overnight in Staunton this weekend This Day in History: Wisconsin becomes 30th state Queen Miller Home included in list of Virginia’s Most Endangered Historic Places News Weather Sports Contact Us WHSV 50 North Main Street Harrisonburg, VA 22802 (540) 433-9191 Terms of Service Privacy Policy EEO Statement FCC Applications Public Inspection File publicfile@whsv.com - (540) 433-0350 Digital Marketing Advertising Closed Captioning/Audio Description YOUR PRIVACY CHOICES Cookie Settings Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search