--- page 1 ---
Officers accused of misusing Flock
cameras
A DeKalb County deputy and three Fayetteville police officers were fired for allegedly misusing Flock camera
systems in separate incidents. (Source: ANF)
By Atlanta News First staff and Gray News staff
Published: Jul. 18, 2026 at 6:35 PM UTC | Updated: 17 hours ago

News
News
Weather
Weather
Live
Live
Sports
Sports
Video
Video
Contests
Contests
Contact Us
Contact Us

ADVERTISEMENT
Share
Add Us
On Google


--- page 2 ---
Copyright 2026 ANF via Gray Local Media, Inc. All rights reserved.
ATLANTA (ANF/Gray News) — The Fayetteville Police Department fired three of its officers after
they allegedly misused the Flock camera system, the department announced on July 17.
According to police, testing of a new auditing feature revealed that the officers had conducted
searches outside their scope of work — including looking for their own plates or those of friends
and family. The three, who have not been identified, were put on administrative leave before
being terminated.
ANF INVESTIGATES: Flock says its cameras don’t track people. Its own training videos
say otherwise
“The department will not speculate regarding the intent behind those searches,” the police
department said in a statement. “However, searches of this nature are subject to strict scrutiny
and were determined to have been conducted without a legitimate law-enforcement purpose,
thereby constituting a violation of department policy.”
The police department asked the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to conduct a criminal
investigation. No charges have been announced yet.
Several law enforcement officers in north Georgia have recently been accused of searching
through the system for reasons unrelated to their jobs. In June, a Greene County deputy was
arrested and fired — and later that month, three Cherokee County deputies were as well.
An Atlanta News First Investigation previously found that Flock cameras were being used for
more than just investigating crimes. Information about when a car was seen at a specific location
remains in the database for 30 days and is shared with hundreds of external agencies. Some
cameras are also designed to follow people as they walk.
The system has prompted nationwide protests, with activists concerned about the possible
invasion of privacy. Earlier this month in Barrow County, the sheriff’s office said it was looking for
vandals who damaged several Flock cameras, cutting down camera poles and severing solar
power equipment.
ADVERTISEMENT


--- page 3 ---
Most Read
 VDOT responds to traffic concerns surrounding
campground proposal
 Mother charged with murder for killing man she found
sneaking into her daughter’s bedroom, police say
FIRST ALERT: Wildfire smoke and haze make a return
 How to stop Canadian wildfire smoke from getting into
your home
 ‘He loved everybody’: Father remembers teen son killed alongside friend in dirt bike
crash


--- page 4 ---
Latest News
 Taylor Farms recalls iceberg lettuce linked to ‘explosive
diarrhea’ outbreak as cases near 7,000
 Strasburg man arrested on drug charges, failure to pay
child support
 Warner talks efforts to increase affordable housing
during visit to Harrisonburg
 US strikes Iran’s Revolutionary Guard over attack that
killed American troops in Jordan
 Nurse adopts 2-year-old girl she treated as a baby in the
NICU


--- page 5 ---
NICU nurse adopts toddler she treated as a baby

 Bison charges grandfather at Yellowstone, sending him
flying into the air
Bison attack at Yellowstone sends grandfather flying into
the air

Wildfire smoke blankets millions across US. When will it
end?

 ‘A light in so many lives’: Mom who beat cancer killed
by falling tree branch
Family mourns mom killed when tree branch falls on car
during storm



--- page 6 ---

News
Weather
Sports
Contact Us
WHSV
50 North Main Street
Harrisonburg, VA 22802
(540) 433-9191
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
EEO Statement
FCC Applications
Public Inspection File
publicfile@whsv.com - (540) 433-0350
Digital Marketing
Advertising
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
YOUR PRIVACY CHOICES
Cookie Settings
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026