--- page 1 ---
Elkton police defends use of Flock cameras
as residents question transparency
Elkton police are defending their use of Flock Safety cameras, but some residents are concerned with the
technology and their implementation.
By Mason Willett
Published: May 29, 2026 at 10:14 PM UTC | Updated: 7 hours ago

News
News
Weather
Weather
Live
Live
Sports
Sports
Video
Video
Contests
Contests
Contact Us
Contact Us

ADVERTISEMENT
Share
Add Us
On Google


--- page 2 ---
ELKTON, Va. (WHSV) - Elkton police are defending their use of Flock Safety cameras — license
plate reading technology designed to help investigate crimes and locate missing people.
However, some residents say the issue isn’t just the cameras; it’s how they were brought into the
community.
The license plate reading system was installed in 2024, using Virginia State Police HEAT grant
funding. However, Zachary Caudle, an Elkton resident, said he didn’t learn about the three
cameras until four months ago.
“The biggest concern I have about it is the transparency from the town and the police
department,“ Caudle said. “It seemed like it was done purposely behind everyone’s head and no
one knew about it.”
Caudle said he believes the cameras collect more than just license plates, pointing to what Flock
calls vehicle fingerprinting, which can identify vehicles by features like dents, stickers, or body
damage. He argues that amount of data creates privacy concerns and said he would like the
cameras removed.
“I don’t think a town of this size, a peaceful town. Everyone here is so nice, just doesn’t need
something like that for policing,” Caudle said. “The town manager basically signed a terms of
service box for the residents of 3,000 people without our consent, and we have no way to opt out
of it.”
Elkton Police Sgt. Ryan Insana called that description misleading and said the cameras are used
only for legitimate criminal justice purposes under Virginia law. As for the town manager’s
decision, Insana said since the purchase was less than $30,000 and was paid for using grants,
the town council didn’t have to vote on this.
“We can’t just get on there and look at Joe Smith who lives on B Street in town and see where he
travels,” Insana said. “We can’t do that. It’s a class 1 misdemeanor if we were to do that.”
Insana said the town tries to be transparent with the Flock cameras, including with a transparency
portal on their website, which shows data over a three-week period and policies for the use of the
cameras.


--- page 3 ---
Copyright 2026 WHSV. All rights reserved.
“If this one tool can help us solve crimes more efficiently and get justice for victims, then we’ll
continue to use it until we’re told otherwise,” he said.
Insana said the equipment would also have prevented issues with investigations for the Subway
and gun store break-ins where no cameras or eyewitnesses were around.
“With the attempted breaking and entering, our case went kind of cold on that, so we put it there
to mitigate future incidences. If an incident does occur, then at least we have somewhere to look
into,” Insana said. “If we would have had that technology or this technology then, maybe it would
have given us a starting point to see what that vehicle was.”
While Insana said the technology is carefully regulated and used to improve public safety,
residents like Caudle continue to push for more answers and greater public discussion about how
this technology is used in Elkton.
Most Read
ADVERTISEMENT
 ‘Absolutely tragic’: Multiple people killed, dozens
injured in I-95 crash
 Vitamins sold at Amazon, TikTok, Walmart, Target recalled for salmonella risk


--- page 4 ---
Latest News
 Richmond woman convicted of defrauding Waynesboro
business after guilty plea
 Valley veterinarians see early spike in ‘highly
contagious’ parvovirus cases
 Strasburg residents raise concerns over proposed data
center spanning 80-acre parcel
 VHSL region tournament scores and highlights: May 28,
2026
 48-year-old father dies leading son’s Cub Scout troop at
popular hiking spot


--- page 5 ---
 Annual Fireman’s Parade held in Timberville
Timberville hosts annual Fireman's parade

 Keezletown beekeeper shares how weather conditions
affect honeybees
Beekeepers discuss how weather conditions impact
honeybees

 VDOT: Weekend work causing overnight closure on I-81
near Staunton
Southbound I-81 to close overnight in Staunton this
weekend

This Day in History: Wisconsin becomes 30th state


--- page 6 ---

 Queen Miller Home included in list of Virginia’s Most
Endangered Historic Places

News
Weather
Sports
Contact Us
WHSV
50 North Main Street
Harrisonburg, VA 22802
(540) 433-9191
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
EEO Statement
FCC Applications
Public Inspection File
publicfile@whsv.com - (540) 433-0350
Digital Marketing
Advertising
Closed Captioning/Audio Description
YOUR PRIVACY CHOICES
Cookie Settings
Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence.
A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026