Augusta County sheriff comments on use of Flock cameras in the county Skip to content Cream of the Crop Daybreak Mug Club Shenandoah Valley Obits We the People Live News Weather Sports Elections Video Contests Contact Us Advertise with Us News Local Events Air 3 Now on 3 Virginia Weekend Valley of Valor We the People American Heart Month Aging Untold National Politics State Weather Special Coverage Breast Cancer Awareness Month Weather Weather Maps Local Currents Weather News Stories Climate Data/Averages Weather History Other Weather Links SkyCams Closings Elections Election Results Voter Guide Sports Sports Xtra Sideline Roots James Madison Local Colleges EndZone High School Charlie Obaugh Auto Group Student Athlete of the Week Signing Day Live Video Live Newscasts Lessons Learned Now on 3 Screens and Stages Sports Xtra Sideline Roots A Local Look Closings Contact Us Meet the Team News & Weather Apps Advertise With Us VA Job Connections WHSV Careers Contests Community Community Calendar Tell Me Something Good Black History Month Working for Wellness Birthdays and Anniversaries Submit a Birthday/Anniversary Shenandoah Valley Obits Taste of the Valley Recipes Shenandoah Valley Obits Lottery Sponsored Black History Month American Heart Month Sentara Community Impact Ask the Experts at Aire Serv. Premier Places to Work Healthwise Building Our Communities MomsEveryday Air 3 TV Listings Submit Photos and Videos NextGen TV Circle Country PowerNation Local News Live InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Gray AI Policy Augusta County sheriff comments on use of Flock cameras in the county By Michael Russo Published: Sep. 21, 2026 at 10:47 PM UTC | Updated: 16 hours ago Share Add Us On Google Add as a preferred source on Google AUGUSTA COUNTY, Va. (WHSV) - Augusta County Sheriff Donald Smith shared comments Monday about the use of Flock cameras in the county, which comes as other localities in the Valley have stopped using the cameras. In a release, Smith said the Augusta County Sheriff’s Office uses two Flock cameras on Jefferson Highway near the Preston Yancey Fire Department that monitor each direction of the roadway. Smith said the cameras have “already proven available in several investigations” — noting the homicide of Andrew Mitts Jr. , finding stolen vehicles, missing-person cases and more. Smith acknowledged the widespread concerns over privacy and potential misuse of the cameras, reassuring community members that “access to the system is strictly controlled, monitored, and logged” and subsequently audited. “Augusta County is a large community with limited law enforcement resources, and technology like Flock cameras can help investigators work cases more efficiently,” Smith said. “Even so, it is important that we carefully consider privacy and make sure any technology we use is handled responsibly.” Smith said he will continue listening to the community and review usage of Flock cameras, weighing the pros and cons of further use in the county. “I ask for your patience as we work through these issues. My goal is to keep Augusta County safe while maintaining the trust and confidence of the people we serve,” Smith said. “Thank you for continuing to share your thoughts, questions, and concerns. I am committed to protecting our community while respecting the rights, privacy, and freedoms of everyone.” Copyright 2026 WHSV. All rights reserved. Most Read Elkton man, 19, charged with first-degree murder of uncle Flights disrupted across US Northeast due to technical problems at key air traffic center Shenandoah National Park will begin installing automated entry stations this fall Virginia voters to decide three constitutional amendments in November CNN, MS NOW, Politico sue over denied White House access, citing First Amendment Two firefighters hospitalized after crash in Louisa County Commonwealth’s attorney: Deadly force ‘justified’ in Page County officer-involved shooting Latest News WHSV Morning FastCast Augusta County sheriff comments on use of Flock cameras in the county Mental health expert: Fall’s arrival brings comfort, challenges Mental health expert: Fall’s arrival brings comfort, challenges ‘A different deal on the table’: AG Jay Jones asks SCC to reset the clock on Dominion-NextEra merger New study finds more than 1 in 3 Blue Ridge households experienced food insecurity Elkton man, 19, charged with first-degree murder of uncle News Weather Sports Contact Us WHSV 50 North Main Street Harrisonburg, VA 22802 (540) 433-9191 Terms of Service Privacy Policy EEO Statement FCC Applications Public Inspection File publicfile@whsv.com - (540) 433-0350 Digital Marketing Advertising Closed Captioning/Audio Description YOUR PRIVACY CHOICES Cookie Settings Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2026 search by queryly Advanced Search