source: packet.pdf
sha256: 4498d4811922ff689e97528c657e257618cde8ab73db4f97d2d0685d9738e941
pages: 8
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Special Meeting
August 3, 2020
5:30 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Joe Goethals, Mayor
Eric Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor
Rick Bonilla
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: August 3, 2020 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Enter Conference ID: 819 9680 4261
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
OLD BUSINESS
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the Council's consideration of these items.
1.
Increase Hotel Transient Occupancy Tax-Placing Measure on Ballot
Adopt a Resolution to call a general municipal election on November 3, 2020, for the purpose of submitting a
proposed ordinance to increase the City's general transient occupancy tax by 2% and superseding the provisions
of Resolution 79 (2020); and provide direction to staff on those to be authorized to sign ballot arguments on the
measure.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's website
at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream (continue next page)
1 of 8

--- page 2 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, state your name and provide your comments.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this meeting may
contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
2 of 8

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 20-3426
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney Department
MEETING DATE:
August 03, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Increase Hotel Transient Occupancy Tax-Placing Measure on Ballot
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to call a general municipal election on November 3, 2020, for the purpose of submitting a proposed 
ordinance to increase the City's general transient occupancy tax by 2% and superseding the provisions of Resolution 79 
(2020); and provide direction to staff on those to be authorized to sign ballot arguments on the measure.
BACKGROUND:
On July 20, 2020, the City Council adopted a resolution calling an election on a proposed measure to increase the City's 
existing transient occupancy tax by 2%. The resolution adopted by the Council included the statement of the ballot 
measure as it would appear on the ballot. Subsequent to the adoption of the resolution, staff learned that under Elections 
Code Section 13119 the statement of the measure shall include, "the amount of money to be raised annually and the rate 
and duration of the tax to be levied." The resolution submitted with this report supersedes the previously adopted 
resolution; and includes an estimate of the amount the tax increase will raise and indicates that the tax will remain in 
effect until ended by the voters. 
At its July 20 meeting, the City Council also agreed to submit a primary argument in favor of the measure that was drafted 
by a Council subcommittee comprised of Mayor Joe Goethals and Deputy Mayor Eric Rodriguez. Council also directed the 
subcommittee to draft a rebuttal argument for Council’s review at the August 17 meeting should anyone file an argument 
in opposition. Primary arguments are due August 14 and rebuttal arguments are due August 24. 
Elections law allows for up to five individuals to sign primary and rebuttal arguments. This could take the form of members 
of a governing body, any individual voter, members of a bona fide association of citizens, or a combination of these. Based 
on current Council direction, the five Council members will sign the primary and rebuttal arguments. In prior years, the 
Council has opted to allow members of the public to sign tax-related ballot measure arguments. Only those who submitted 
an accepted primary argument may file a rebuttal argument, unless the authors of the primary arguments authorize in 
writing any other person or persons to prepare, submit or sign the rebuttal argument. Based on this information, Council 
may wish to discuss providing alternative direction to staff or the Council subcommittee. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
If adopted by voters, the proposed measure is expected to generate $1 million in additional general fund revenue. The San 
Mateo County elections division has provided a quote for the cost associated of placing an additional measure on the Nov. 
3, 2020 ballot to be in the range of $12,000 to $16,000. The City Clerk’s budget can absorb the cost of this measure with 
existing appropriations.
3 of 8

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Shawn Mason, City Attorney
smason@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7022
4 of 8

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2020)
CALLING A GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2020 FOR THE PURPOSE OF 
SUBMITTING A PROPOSED ORDINANCE TO INCREASE THE CITY’S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX BY TWO 
PERCENT AND SUPERSEDING THE PROVISIONS OF RESOLUTION 79 (2020)
WHEREAS, City of San Mateo faces significant budget challenges in the foreseeable future that are 
expected to be exacerbated by the novel coronavirus pandemic;
WHEREAS, in an effort to address these challenges the City has developed a fiscal sustainability plan 
which includes seeking voter approval of an increase in the current Transient Occupancy Tax; and
WHEREAS, the City commissioned a study to determine whether the community supported a 2% 
increase in the current Transient Occupancy Tax rate and the study indicated strong support for such a tax 
increase; and 
WHEREAS, pursuant to authority provided by state law the San Mateo City Council has decided to 
place a proposition to approve a 2% increase to the tax rate on the November 3, 2020 ballot.  
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, 
DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1.
That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California relating to 
charter cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of San Mateo, California, on Tuesday, November 
3, 2020, a General Municipal Election for the purpose of submitting the following proposed ordinance:  
YES
To fund general city services such as: maintaining 
streets and repairing potholes; providing fire, 
paramedic, and 9-1-1 emergency response; managing 
traffic congestion and enhancing pedestrian safety 
measures; maintaining parks, recreation and 
community facilities, infrastructure, and general city 
services; shall an ordinance increasing the City of San 
Mateo’s existing transient occupancy tax paid by 
hotel/motel guests to 14% to provide an estimated  
$1,000,000 annually until ended by voters, be 
adopted?
NO
SECTION 2.
That the text of the measure submitted to the voters is attached as Exhibit A.
SECTION 3.
That the vote requirement for the measure to pass is a majority (50%+1) of the votes 
cast.
SECTION 4.
That the full text of the measure be printed in the voter information pamphlet.
5 of 8

--- page 6 ---
Resolution No.   (2020)
Page 2 of 4
Increase Hotel Transient Occupancy Tax – Placing Measure on Ballot
SECTION 5.
The City Clerk is directed to forward the proposed measure to the City Attorney for 
preparation of an impartial analysis in accordance with Section 9280 of the Elections Code.  
SECTION 6.
Arguments for and against the proposition may be submitted to the qualified voters of 
the City in accordance with sections 9282 through 9287 of the California Elections Code. The deadline date for 
submitting ballot arguments for or against the proposition shall be Friday, August 14, 2020. Proposed arguments 
shall not exceed 300 words and shall be submitted to the Office of the City Clerk. The deadline for submitting 
rebuttal arguments shall be Monday, August 24, 2020. Proposed rebuttal arguments shall not exceed 250 words 
and shall be submitted to the office of the City Clerk. The provisions of Section 9285(a) of the California Elections 
Code shall apply to the submittal of rebuttal arguments.
SECTION 7. The City Clerk and other City officers are directed to do all things necessary to meet the 
requirements of law for the November 3, 2020, municipal election.
SECTION 8.  That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content as required by law.
SECTION 9.  The polls for said election shall be opened at seven o’clock a.m. of the day of said election 
and shall remain open continuously from said time until eight o’clock p.m. of the same day, except as provided 
in Section 14401 of the Elections Code of the State of California.
SECTION 10.  The municipal election hereby called for November 3, 2020, shall be, and is hereby, 
ordered consolidated with the county election to be held within the City on said date, and within the territory 
affected by the consolidation, the election shall be held and conducted, election officers appointed, voting 
precincts designated, ballots printed, polls opened and closed, ballots counted and returned, returns canvassed, 
results declared, and all other proceedings incidental to and connected with the election shall be regulated and 
done in accordance with the provisions of law regulating the countywide election and as specified herein.
SECTION 11.  The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo is hereby requested to permit the 
County Elections Official to render specified services to the city relating to the conduct of the election; and is 
hereby authorized to canvass the returns of said municipal election; and said election shall be held in all respects 
as if there were only one election and only one form of ballot.  The County shall certify the results of the canvass 
of the returns of said election to the City Council of this City which shall thereafter declare the results thereof. 
SECTION 12.
That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held and 
conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.
SECTION 13.  That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City Clerk is 
authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election, in time, form and manner 
as required by law. 
6 of 8

--- page 7 ---
Resolution No.   (2020)
Page 3 of 4
Increase Hotel Transient Occupancy Tax – Placing Measure on Ballot
SECTION 14.  The City Council authorizes the City Clerk to administer said election and all reasonable and 
actual election expenses shall be paid by the City upon presentation of a properly submitted bill and the City 
Clerk is authorized to execute a service agreement for the provision of election services with the County with 
terms approved by the city attorney and provided the costs of such services have been appropriated by the City 
Council.
SECTION 15.  That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this resolution and enter it 
into the book of original resolutions. 
SECTION 16.
This resolution supersedes the provisions of Resolution No. 79 (2020) and the City Clerk 
is directed to provide this resolution to the County Elections Official with instructions to use the statement of 
the measure in Section 1. above in the ballot materials produced for the election on this measure. 
SECTION 17. 
The City Council has determined that the proposed measure is not a “project” under 
CEQA.  
SECTION 18. 
Effective date. This Resolution shall take effect upon adoption.
7 of 8

--- page 8 ---
Resolution No.   (2020)
Page 4 of 4
Increase Hotel Transient Occupancy Tax – Placing Measure on Ballot
EXHIBIT A
The People of the City of San Mateo do hereby ordain as follows:
Section 1. Section 3.56.030 “General Tax”, of Chapter 3.56, “Transient Occupancy Tax” of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code is amended to read:
3.56.030
GENERAL TAX
For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a general tax in the amount 
of 12% of the rent charged by the operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the City which is 
extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the City. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of 
the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be 
paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the 
hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the Tax Collector may require that 
such tax shall be paid directly to the Tax Collector.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. in accordance with California Public Resources Code Section 21065 
the adoption of this ordinance is not a project under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), because it 
can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical effect on the environment.
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on July 20, 2020 and adopted 
on ______________________ and shall be effective on January 1, 2021.
8 of 8