Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Joplin MO PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Wed Sep 09 2026

Overview

Joplin MO PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Joplin MO PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Joplin MO PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Success Story

The suspect vehicle in the rape of juvenile was located on Flock. The suspect had allegedly pulled a firearm on the juvenile victim and forced her into the vehicle. The suspect’s vehicle was located on Flock cameras in the area where the incident occurred, at the time provided by the victim. The suspect vehicle was scanned as it returned the victim to the location where she was dropped off. PC was submitted for several felony charges.

Success Story

A juvenile female ran away from home and left in her vehicle. On 11/19/25, her vehicle was located on Flock in northern California. She was contacted by law enforcement in Alameda, CA. On 11/25/25, the juvenile turned 18 and was removed as a missing person.
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

7 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

11

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

11

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

255,108

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

313

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert, MULES - MSHP

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

13,415
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV

Provided by Flock Safety