source: packet.pdf
sha256: 4cc57814c5b3b0740c12af831b148f5bef6ff06de3f9d2dc24462edfdd29f058
pages: 4
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Library Board
May 29, 2020
10:00 AM
BOARD MEMBERS
Dr. Lester Chen, President
Lisa Diaz Nash, Vice-President
Elizabeth De Winter
Kathy Shields
Donald Hill
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: May 29, 2020 Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Enter Conference ID:
878 4157 2724
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
STUDY SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment during the consideration of these items.
1.
Library Rules of Conduct Policy - Addendum
Discuss and adopt an addendum to the Library Rules of Conduct Policy regarding social distancing during the
COVID-19 pandemic for the new curbside pickup service of library materials for patrons.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Agendas are posted on the City's website 24 hours preceding this Special Board Meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: jmoore@cityofsanmateo.org until 5:00 p.m. the day before the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are
muted by default. To speak press the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda.
To indicate you want to provide public comment, press *9 to raise your hand.
When called upon, state your name and provide your comments.
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in this meeting may
contact the Library Administrative Office at (650) 522-7802. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
1 of 4

--- page 2 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: STUDY SESSION 
File ID: 20-3104
TO:
Library Board
FROM:
James Moore, City Librarian
PREPARED BY:
Library Department
MEETING DATE:
May 29, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Library Rules of Conduct Policy - Addendum
RECOMMENDATION:
Discuss and adopt an addendum to the Library Rules of Conduct Policy regarding social distancing during the COVID-19 
pandemic for the new curbside pickup service of library materials for patrons.
BACKGROUND:
In order to help assure safety for library staff and patrons, the Library Board of Trustees has composed a policy of clear 
guidelines using current COVID-19 related health information from official health agencies to provide specific instructions 
on best practice for providing curbside pick-up service at the San Mateo Public Library. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
We have already purchased the supplies needed to safely begin curbside pick-up service.There is no budget impact of 
approving and implementing these guides as there is no additional cost to implementing.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Addendum is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - DRAFT addendum to Library Rules of Conduct Policy
STAFF CONTACT
James Moore, City Librarian 
jmoore@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7810
2 of 4

--- page 3 ---
DRAFT addendum to Library Rules of Conduct: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/60134/Library-Rules-of-Conduct-
Policy-revised-5-26-15?bidId=
Social Distancing Section
Intent: As COVID-19 (novel Coronavirus) is not yet contained and poses a threat to the 
community, these additional rules on Library patron conduct are meant to maintain the health 
and safety of patrons while using Library services and Library staff while delivering Library 
services to patrons.  These additional rules are also meant to encourage patron behaviors that 
promote the health of the community.
Policy addendum:
Before coming for curbside pickup
1. To encourage patrons to stay home if they are sick, if a patron feels sick the day of their 
curbside pickup appointment, they are encouraged to call the Library at 650-522-7800 
and tell staff that they are not feeling well.  These patrons’ appointments will be given 
priority for rescheduling.
During curbside pickup
2. Patrons are expected to wear non-medical “face coverings” at all times.  A “face 
covering” is defined by the County Health Officer’s order, “a covering made of cloth, 
fabric, or other soft or permeable material, without holes, that covers only the nose and 
mouth and surrounding areas of the lower face.”  This follows section 2 of the County 
Health Officer’s order No. c19-8(b): https://www.smchealth.org/sites/main/files/file-
attachments/ho_order_c19-8b_face_covering_revised_final.pdf?1589988744.  This 
excludes patrons who are under 12 years of age or have a medical condition that 
prevents them from safely wearing a face covering.
3. Patrons must keep at least six feet (1.8 meters) apart from anyone outside their 
household.
4. Patrons who do not wear a face covering and keep six feet apart from others will not 
receive their curbside pickup materials.  This follows section 6.b of the County Health 
Officer’s order No. c19-8(b) (referenced above).  In addition, patrons who came by car 
should remain inside their car while Library staff is bringing out curbside pickup 
materials to the patron.
a. The first time that a patron does not follow this rule, their holds will be kept for 
them but moved to the end of the line for processing.
b. The second time that a patron does not follow this rule, their holds will be 
cancelled, and they will lose their right to reserve materials for three months.  In 
addition, a written warning will be issued by the Deputy City Librarian.
c.
The third time that a patron does not follow this rule, their holds will be 
cancelled, and they will lose their right to reserve materials for one year.  In 
addition, the City Librarian will have the discretion to issue a suspension 
3 of 4

--- page 4 ---
(banning) letter.  The Library will consult with law enforcement officials and the 
City Attorney’s office about potential further actions. 
5. Patrons may not ask for additional materials during curbside pickup.  This follows 
section 1.b of the County Health Officer’s order No.c19-5d – Appendix C-1: 
https://www.smchealth.org/sites/main/files/file-attachments/ho_order_c19-
5d_appendix_c-
1_additional_businesses_permitted_to_operate_20200515.pdf?1589577717. 
6. Patrons may not return materials during curbside pickup. 
7. If there are any areas where these policies overlap with city, county, or state rules, then 
the most stringent policy or rule will apply.
Expiration of this policy:
Option 1: upon a future decision by the Board of Trustees.
Option 2: until the library reopens and face coverings are no longer required by the San Mateo 
County Health Officer.
As new information is continually coming out, these policies will also continually change.  
Patrons are encouraged to send their comments and suggestions to the Library Board of 
Trustees: libraryboard@cityofsanmateo.org.
4 of 4