source: packet.pdf
sha256: 5c5fa5c2ebc9fdde440a91cd0550c9d28babe1082793ac3dac0cba5ffb309429
pages: 448
ocr_pages: 165
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
February 3, 2025
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Robert Newsom Jr.
Adam Loraine
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: February 3, 2025
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 882 2020 5790      Passcode: 203987
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency
Circumstances
CEREMONIAL
1.
CSM Football Team – Recognition
2.
Chris Eckert – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the special and regular minutes of the City Council meeting of January 13, 2025.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).))
4.
Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant — Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to accept grant funds in the amount of $360,500 from the California Department of
Transportation (Caltrans) for the development of a Climate Adaptation Plan for Sea Level Rise and to appropriate
1 of 448

--- page 2 ---
the grant funds to the Climate Adaptation Plan Project; approve the Restricted Grant Agreement; and authorize
the City Manager to execute the Restricted Grant Agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Adoption of a Resolution to accept grant funds, approval of grant agreement, and the appropriation of
grant funds is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment
to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
5.
Sandbag Station — Agreement
Ratify an inter-agency agreement with the San Mateo Foster City School District allowing the City to deploy a
sandbag station in the parking lot of the Turnbull Child Development Center in the North Central neighborhood.
CEQA: Approval of this interagency agreement is exempt from CEQA review under the “common sense”
exemption; in that it can be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the establishment of a temporary
sandbag station at the Turnbull Child Development Center parking lot may have a significant effect on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3).)
6.
PW Facilities On-Call General Contracting Services
Approve Contract Change Order No. 1 to the construction contract with Y3C, Inc. in the amount of $160,000 to
provide on-call contracting services to Public Works Facilities through Fiscal Year 2024-25, increasing the total
contract amount to $250,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change order in
substantially the form presented.
CEQA: Approval of a change order with Y3C, Inc. for on-call general contracting services is categorically exempt
from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing,
licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or
topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15301.)
7.
Poplar Creek Tenant Improvements – Budget Appropriation, Contract Change Order, and Rent Waiver Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to authorize a total budget appropriation of $1,650,000 from the unassigned fund balance of
the General Fund, with $1,530,000 appropriated to the Poplar Creek Tenant Improvements project in the Capital
Project Fund and $120,000 appropriated to the Parks and Recreation operating budget within the Golf Fund;
approve Change Order No. 1 to the agreement with Jon K Takata Corporation dba Restoration Management
Company to provide contract services for the Project in the amount of $1,072,649.41 for a new contract total of
$1,152,256.31; establish a construction contract contingency of $115,300; authorize the Public Works Director to
issue change orders within the contingency and execute Change Order No. 1 in substantially the form presented;
approve a Rent Waiver Agreement with PAR3SM, LLC; and authorize the City Manager to execute the Rent Waiver
Agreement in substantially the form presented.
CEQA: This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation,
repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures,
facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or
former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
8.
Commitment to Explore Reach Codes for the 2025 Code Cycle — Adoption
Adopt a Resolution affirming the City’s commitment to exploring local amendments to the Energy Code and
Green Building Code for the 2025 Code Cycle to advance the City’s climate goals.
2 of 448

--- page 3 ---
CEQA: This Resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
9.
SEIU Maintenance Unit Memorandum of Understanding Side Letter – Approval
Adopt a Resolution approving a Side Letter to the Memorandum of Understanding with the SEIU Maintenance
Unit to include a temporary increase in the compensatory time leave cap for Wastewater Treatment Operators.
CEQA: This side letter is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
NEW BUSINESS
10.
North Central Bike Lanes Project — Direction
Provide direction on addressing community impacts of the North Central Bike Lanes project.
CEQA: This Council item in providing direction for the use of the street and bicycle facilities along Humboldt Street
is exempt from CEQA review as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance,
permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical
equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15301.)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
3 of 448

--- page 4 ---
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 448

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 25-9594
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the special and regular minutes of the City Council meeting of January 13, 2025.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact associated with this administrative action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes 2025-01-13 Special
Att 2 - Minutes 2025-01-13 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
5 of 448

--- page 6 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 1/13/2025
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rob Newsom Jr., Mayor
Adam Loraine, Deputy Mayor
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
January 13, 2025
City Hall Council Chambers 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 5:30 p.m.
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Newsom, Deputy Mayor Loraine, Council Members: Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – there were no requests. 
CLOSED SESSION
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the City Council convened into Closed Session at 
5:32 p.m. to consider:
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Anticipated Litigation
Significant exposure to litigation pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (d) of Section 54956.9
One case (Claim of Alicia Petrakis)
2.
Conference with Labor Negotiators (Government Code Section 5957.6)
City designated representatives:  Karen Huang, Abby Veeser, Aracelia Esparza, and Stacey Cue.
Employee Organizations: San Mateo City Employees Association, SEIU Maintenance, Police Sergeants’ Unit, San 
Mateo Management Employees’ Association (MEA)
3.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Workers’ Compensation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9)
Name of case(s): Todd Mefford (Case Nos. 2093500046 and 1893500055)
4.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Workers’ Compensation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9)
Name of Case(s): Greg Wilson (Case Nos. 1993500060 and 1293501035)
Council reconvened at 6:38 p.m.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 6:38 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Rob Newsom, Jr., Mayor                      
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
6 of 448

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/13/2025
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Rob Newsom Jr., Mayor
Adam Loraine, Deputy Mayor
Nicole Fernandez
Danielle Cwirko-Godycki
Lisa Diaz Nash
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
January 13, 2025
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:00 p.m.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Newsom, Deputy Mayor Loraine, Council Members: Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
AB 2449 Requests and Considerations for Meeting Participation by Teleconference due to Just Cause or Emergency 
Circumstances – there were no requests. 
CEREMONIAL
1.
Holiday Decorating Award for Small Business – Presentation - Erica Wood – President and CEO (San Mateo Area 
Chamber of Commerce) and Mackenzie Jakoubek  - Downtown San Mateo Association, Executive Director received 
the awards and will distribute to the winners: La Lanterna, Lion’s Den Shave Parlor and Espetus
2.
Commendatory Resolutions – Mike Allen C-1 (2025), Angela Sakkos C-2 (2025), and Carolyn Shavel C-3 (2025)
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 3 through 8, and 10, were considered to be routine by the City Council. Item 9 was removed by staff 
for future consideration. After the titles of the items were read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and 
there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Diaz Nash, Seconded: Loraine
Ayes: 
Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
Noes: 
None
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes — Approval
Approve the special and regular minutes of the City Council meetings of November 18, 2024, and the regular 
minutes of the City Council meeting on December 9, 2024.
4.
City Council 2025 Regular Meeting Calendar — Adoption
Approve an amendment to the City Council Regular Meeting schedule for the calendar year 2025.
5.
Fund Reservation Agreement for Fleet Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure — Approval
Approve three Fund Reservation Agreements with Peninsula Clean Energy for the City to receive up to $270,000 to 
offset the expense of the installation of electric vehicle chargers at three City facilities for fleet charging.
7 of 448

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/13/2025
Page 2
6.
Construction Special Inspection Services for the Clean Water Program — Amendment
Approve Amendment No. 5 to the professional services agreement with Signet Testing Laboratories, Inc. for as-
needed construction special inspection services for various Clean Water Program projects to increase the 
agreement by $150,000, for a total revised agreement amount of $2,700,000; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented and issue project-specific task orders under 
the agreement.
7.
Sale of Water-Filled Barriers — Authorization
Authorize the City Manager to execute a sales contract allowing for the sale of 310 used water-filled barriers by the 
City to Marina Landscape, Inc. for a total price of $38,750.
8.
Basin C Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project — Agreement
Award an agreement to Westland Contractors, Inc. for the Basin C Sanitary Sewer Rehabilitation Project in an 
amount not to exceed $5,953,822; establish a contingency in the amount of $900,000; and authorize the Public 
Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the 
contingency amount.
9.
Police Department and Parks and Recreation — Classification Updates - THIS ITEM HAS BEEN REMOVED FROM THE 
AGENDA FOR FUTURE CONSIDERATION.
Adopt a Resolution to approve the job specification revisions and a salary range increase for the Police Digital 
Forensic Specialist based on a classification analysis and to approve the revised job specifications for the Landscape 
Laborer and Landscape Maintenance Worker I/II to reflect a flexible staffed series pursuant to the recent MOU 
agreement.
10.
San Mateo Adult and Career Education Recreation Instruction Services — Agreement 
Approve an agreement with San Mateo Union High School District for Recreation Services facilitated by San Mateo 
Adult and Career Education in an amount not to exceed $25,000, for a term from January 6, 2025, through June 30, 
2026, and authorize the Parks and Recreation Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Kevin Simpson requested to defer the January 21st Council meeting item regarding the Humboldt Street Bike Lanes for a 
later date – preferably at least one month out; Michael Reagan shared concerns about the absence of an updated traffic 
engineering study in San Mateo since 2015. Tom Lease recommended pushing the bike lane matter to a future meeting. 
Claire Stephens spoke regarding the loss of 230 parking spaces and many more expected and requested to bring back 
parking spaces and convert the bike lane to shared. Trina Pierce requested to bring back parking in North Central for 
safety reasons. Joanne Bennett spoke regarding the limited parking matter. Dennis Bagus asked whether there is going to 
be a public meeting regarding train noise. Irena Rodriguez spoke regarding cell towers and fire related dangers. Mike 
Swire informed of the Humboldt bike lanes helping to make San Mateo safer for its residents and is concerned they may 
be removed and the lack of outreach. Rick Sakuda stated Council should listen to the citizens who spoke and are affected 
by the issues and to represent the people of San Mateo.
8 of 448

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/13/2025
Page 3
OLD BUSINESS
11.
Third Avenue and South Norfolk Street Intersection Modification Project — Appropriation, Budget Transfers, and 
Agreement
Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer, gave the presentation.
Council recessed from 8:20 p.m. to 8:25 p.m.
Public Comment:
Kevin Simpson encouraged comprehensive understanding of transportation safety. Seema Patel spoke to 
encourage efforts to promote safe streets. Mike Swire recommended adoption of the staff’s proposal. Rick Sakuda 
spoke to improve public outreach to projects. Colin spoke in favor of the proposal. Maggie Trinh spoke in favor of 
the project. Allison MacQueen spoke on the importance of this intersection and the need for safe transportation. 
Max Mautner spoke in favor of staff proposal.
The council asked questions and made comments.
Motion to Adopt a Resolution authorizing an appropriation of $200,000 from the City’s Measure A funds, and 
budget transfers of $65,000 from the Traffic Signal Video Detection Replacement Project and $40,000 from the 
Bike San Mateo Program Project to the Community Development Block Grant Projects project budget in the 
Capital Project Fund; approve an agreement with Liffey Electric, Inc. for construction of the 3rd Avenue and South 
Norfolk Street Intersection Modification Project in the amount of $1,298,745; establish a contingency reserve in 
the amount of $200,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the 
form presented and issue change orders as allowed by the contract documents and within the contingency 
amount. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Loraine, Seconded: Cwirko-Godycki
Ayes: 
Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 1 (2025)
PUBLIC HEARING
12.
Solid Waste 2025 Rate Setting and Proposition 218 Notification —Approval
Jack Johnson, Waste Management Supervisor, gave the presentation. Gabe Sasser and Rick Simonson from HF and 
H Consultants were also present.
The Mayor opened public comment.
Public Comment – There were no speakers.
The Mayor closed public comment.
Council asked questions and made comments.
Staff provided direction on proposed increases to residential and commercial solid waste rates and commercial 
organics collection rates. Council authorized staff to mail a Proposition 218 Notification to all property taxpayers 
proposing a not-to-exceed increase in solid waste, recycling, and compost collection rates for 2025.
9 of 448

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 1/13/2025
Page 4
13.
New Construction Reach Codes for the 2022 Code Cycle — Ordinance Introduction
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst, gave the presentation.
The Mayor opened public comment.
Public Comment:
Robert Whitehair spoke on behalf of San Mateo Climate Action Team and 350 Silicon Valley and stated that 
decarbonization of buildings is critical to meeting climate goals.
Council asked questions and made comments.
Motion to Introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.24 "Energy Code" and 
Chapter 23.70 "Green Building Code" to require enhanced energy performance for new construction, repeal 
unenforceable measures of the City's current reach codes, and make a minor edit to the City's electric-readiness 
requirements. This motion also noted the adoption of a resolution associated with this action. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Loraine, Seconded: Cwirko-Godycki
Ayes: 
Newsom, Loraine, Fernandez, Cwirko-Godycki, and Diaz Nash
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 2 (2025)
NEW BUSINESS
14.
City Council Appointments to External Agencies and Liaison Roles — Approval
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk, gave the presentation.
Public Comment – There were no speakers.
Council asked questions and made comments.
Council consensus was to approve the final appointments and liaisons list.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles and noted past 
and future events. Deputy Mayor Loraine requested Council consensus to bring forward a resolution at a future meeting 
noting the City’s intention to study Cal Green Reach Code in the next cycle. The council gave approval of this request. 
Mayor Newsom requested the Council consider options for financial aid in relation to relief for recent wildfires 
experienced in Los Angeles. City Manager Khojikian informed the Council he would review this and provide the Council 
with an update at a later date. City Manager Khojikian requested Council direction on the scheduling of future agenda 
items. City Manager Khojikian informed the public that there will be a meeting with CalTrain on Thursday, January 30th.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned in memory of President Jimmy Carter at 10:30 p.m. 
APPROVED BY:                                                       
SUBMITTED BY:
Rob Newsom, Jr., Mayor                
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
10 of 448

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 24-9257
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 3, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to accept grant funds in the amount of $360,500 from the California Department of Transportation 
(Caltrans) for the development of a Climate Adaptation Plan for Sea Level Rise and to appropriate the grant funds to the 
Climate Adaptation Plan Project; approve the Restricted Grant Agreement; and authorize the City Manager to execute the 
Restricted Grant Agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
In January 2024, the City applied for grant funding through the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) 
Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program for the development of a Climate Adaptation Plan for Sea Level Rise. 
The development of a Climate Adaptation Plan will build on regional efforts such as the County of San Mateo Sea Level 
Rise Vulnerability Assessment to produce a planning document specific to the City of San Mateo. The Climate Adaptation 
Plan will include an existing conditions assessment and technical analysis to develop criteria for evaluating vulnerable 
areas, hydrologic and hydraulic modeling to establish minimum elevations required to address projected sea level rise in 
2050 and 2100 and more. The Climate Adaptation Plan will result in a prioritized list of facilities and infrastructure which 
may require site-specific adaptation strategies and will include funding and financing analysis that are intended to provide 
next steps toward implementation. The plan will also meet SB 272 requirements to enable the City to be more competitive 
for adaption project funding.
In July 2024, the City of San Mateo received a conditional award letter from Caltrans. In September 2024, City Council 
adopted a Resolution identifying approval authority for the agreements between the City of San Mateo and Caltrans, in 
compliance with the Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program requirement. A Restricted Grant 
Agreement is needed to be executed with Caltrans before such funds can be reimbursed through the Caltrans Sustainable 
Transportation Planning Grant Program. 
Staff recommends City Council adopt a Resolution to accept grant funds in the amount of $360,500 from the California 
Department of Transportation (Caltrans) for the development of a Climate Adaptation Plan for Sea Level Rise and to 
appropriate the grant funds to the Climate Adaptation Plan Project. Staff also recommends the City Council approve the 
Restricted Grant Agreement with Caltrans and authorize the City Manager to execute required documentation to receive 
the grant funds. As next steps, staff anticipates releasing a Request for Proposals (RFP) to select a technical consultant to 
develop the Climate Adaptation Plan.
BUDGET IMPACT:
11 of 448

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Acceptance of the Caltrans funding requires a 11.47 percent local match. $50,000 was allocated to the Climate Adaptation 
Plan Project 46C005 from the Construction Services Fund 26 during the FY 2024-25 budget to meet this local match 
requirement. Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant funds in the amount of $360,500 will be appropriated to 
the Climate Adaptation Plan Project 46C005. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Adoption of a Resolution to accept grant funds, approval of grant agreement, and the appropriation of grant funds is not a 
project subject to CEQA, because it is a fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which 
may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – Restricted Grant Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
12 of 448

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
ACCEPTING THE CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORATION (CALTRANS) SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORATION 
PLANNING GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF $360,500 FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF A CLIMATE ADAPTATION PLAN 
FOR SEA LEVEL RISE AND APPROPRIATING $360,500 TO THE CLIMATE ADAPTATION PLAN PROJECT
WHEREAS, State law requires local governments to develop subregional shoreline adaptation plans to be 
prioritized for State funding for adaptation projects; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo applied to the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) 
Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program, specifically, the Climate Adaptation Planning Grant for the 
development of a Climate Adaptation Plan for Sea Level Rise; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo received a conditional award letter for the 2024-25 Sustainable 
Transportation Planning Grant; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is eligible to receive State funding for certain transportation planning 
related plans through Caltrans; and
 WHEREAS, a Restricted Grant Agreement is needed to be executed with Caltrans before such funds can 
be reimbursed through the Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo wishes to approve acceptance of the grant subject to the Restricted 
Grant Agreement in the amount of $360,500.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES:
1.
The City Council action adopting a resolution to accept grant funds is not a project subject to CEQA 
review because it is a fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project 
which may result in a potentially significant impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
157378(b)(4).)
2.
Acceptance of the CalTrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program funding in the 
amount of $360,500 is approved.
3.
An appropriation of $360,500 in grant funds to the Climate Adaptation Plan Project 46C005 is 
approved.
13 of 448

--- page 14 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 1 of 16 
Adaptation Grants (State) 
Restricted Grant Agreement 
This Restricted Grant Agreement (RGA), between the State of California acting by and through its 
Department of Transportation, referred to herein as CALTRANS, and CITY OF SAN MATEO, the 
hereinafter referred to as AGENCY, will commence on NOVEMBER 4, 2024, or upon approval by 
CALTRANS, whichever occurs later. This RGA is of no effect unless approved by CALTRANS. 
AGENCY shall not receive payment for work performed prior to approval of the RGA and before 
receipt of Notice to Proceed by the CALTRANS Contract Manager. This RGA shall expire on JUNE 
30, 2027. 
Recitals 
1. Under this RGA, CALTRANS intends to convey State restricted grant funds to AGENCY, 
pursuant to Budget Act Line Item 2660-102-0042, who will conduct transportation studies and 
planning within the regional area under the jurisdiction of AGENCY under the terms, covenants, 
and conditions of this RGA. 
2. CALTRANS and AGENCY intend that only funds that are authorized as restricted grants will be 
subject to this RGA, and that no funds that should be the subject of a Joint Powers Agreement, 
Interagency Agreement, or other non-grant agreement shall be subject to this RGA. 
Now, Therefore, based upon the terms, covenants, and conditions of this RGA, the parties agree as 
follows: 
Section I 
AGENCY Agrees: 
To timely and satisfactorily complete all Project work described in Attachment II within the project 
budget and in accordance with the items of this RGA. 
Section ll 
CALTRANS Agrees: 
That when conducting an audit of the costs claimed by AGENCY under the provisions of this RGA, to 
conduct the audit in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Section lII 
It Is Mutually Agreed: 
1. Under this RGA, CALTRANS will convey State grant restricted funds to AGENCY, pursuant to 
Budget Act Line Item 2660-102-0042, and AGENCY will conduct transportation studies and 
planning within the regional area described in Attachment II. The funds subject to this RGA must 
be (a) identified as available for a restricted grant in CALTRANS’ budget and (b) for the purpose of 
conducting transportation studies or planning and (c) to a public entity that is responsible for 
conducting transportation studies or planning. 
2. Under this restricted grant, funds may be only used for the purpose set forth in RGA, Resolution 
(Attachment I), Scope of Work and Project timeline (Attachment II), and the applicable Grant 
Application Guide (Attachment III), and funds may only be used for costs and expenses that are 
directly related to such purpose. 
 
 
14 of 448

--- page 15 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 2 of 16 
3. AGENCY shall perform all the duties and obligations described in CLIMATE ADAPTATION 
PLANNING FOR SEA LEVEL RISE hereinafter “Project”, subject to the terms and conditions of 
this RGA and Approved Project Grant Application (Scope of Work and Project timeline), which are 
attached hereto as Attachment II. 
4. The resolution authorizing AGENCY to execute this RGA pertaining to the above described Project 
is attached hereto as Attachment I. 
5. All services performed by AGENCY pursuant to this RGA shall be performed in accordance with 
California Senate Bill No. 198 (SB-198) (Chapter 71, Statutes of 2022), including, but not limited to, 
Government Code Section 14460(a)(1), as well as all applicable Federal, State, and Local laws, 
regulations, and ordinances, all applicable CALTRANS policies and procedures, and all applicable 
CALTRANS published manuals, including, but not limited to, the applicable Grant Application 
Guide (Attachment III). 
California Government Code Section 14460(a)(1) provides: “The department [CALTRANS], and 
external entities that receive state and federal transportation funds from the department, are 
spending those funds efficiently, effectively, economically, and in compliance with applicable state 
and Federal requirements. Those external entities include, but are not limited to, private for profit 
and nonprofit organizations, local transportation agencies, and other local agencies that receive 
transportation funds either through a contract with the department or through an agreement or 
grant administered by the department.” 
In case of conflict between Federal, State, and Local laws, regulations, and ordinances, and/or any 
applicable policies, procedures, or published manuals of either CALTRANS or AGENCY, the order 
of precedence of the applicability of same to this RGA shall be established in this order: 1) Federal 
laws and regulations; 2) California laws and regulations; 3) CALTRANS policies, procedures, and 
published manuals; 4) Local ordinances; and 5) AGENCY policies, procedures, and published 
manuals.  This RGA may not include any federal funds. 
6. Project funding is as follows: 
Fund Title 
Fund Source 
Dollar Amount 
State Highway Account 
(SHA) 
State 
$360,500.00 
Local Match 
Agency Provided 
$50,000.00 
 
Total Project Costs 
$410,500.00 
No in-kind contributions may be made unless the amount and type of the contribution is identified 
above. 
7. This RGA is exempt from the legal review and approval by the Department of General Services, 
pursuant to Legal Opinions of the Attorney General: 58 Ops. Cal. Atty. Gen. 586 (1975), 63 Ops. 
Cal. Atty. Gen. 290 (1980), 74 Ops. Cal. Atty. Gen. 10 (1991), and 88 Ops. Cal. Atty. Gen. 56. 
8. Notification of Parties 
a. AGENCY’s Project Manager for Project is Andrea Chow, (650) 522-7007. 
b. CALTRANS’ Contract Manager is Lucius Wu, (510) 529-5653. “Contract Manager” as used 
herein includes his/her designee. 
 
 
15 of 448

--- page 16 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 3 of 16 
 
c. All notices herein provided to be given, or which may be given, by either party to the other, 
shall be deemed to have been fully given when made in writing and received by the parties at 
their respective addresses: 
City of San Mateo 
Attention: Andrea Chow, Project Manager 
Phone Number: (650) 522-7007 
Email: achow@cityofsanmateo.org  
Address: 330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
California Department of Transportation 
District 4/Office of Regional Planning 
Attention: Lucius Wu, Contract Manager 
Phone Number: (510) 529-5653 
Email: lucius.wu@dot.ca.gov  
Address: 111 Grand Avenue, MS-10D 
Oakland, CA 94612 
9. Period of Performance 
a. Reimbursable work under this RGA shall begin no earlier than on NOVEMBER 4, 2024, 
following the written approval of CALTRANS and AGENCY’s receipt of the Notice to Proceed 
letter of this RGA by the CALTRANS Contract Manager, and will expire on JUNE 30, 2027. 
b. AGENCY will attend a kickoff meeting with CALTRANS to be scheduled within one (1) week 
from receipt of Notice to Proceed letter by the CALTRANS Contract Manager. 
10. Changes in Terms/Amendments 
This Agreement may only be amended or modified during the period of performance by mutual 
written agreement of the parties. 
11. Cost Limitation 
a. The maximum total amount granted and reimbursable to AGENCY pursuant to this RGA by 
CALTRANS shall not exceed $360,500.00. 
b. It is agreed and understood that this RGA fund limit is an estimate and that CALTRANS will 
only reimburse the cost of services actually rendered in accordance with the provisions of this 
RGA and as authorized by the CALTRANS Contract Manager at or below that fund limitation 
established herein. 
12. Termination 
a. CALTRANS reserves the right to terminate this RGA upon written notice to AGENCY at least 
30 days in advance of the effective date of such termination in the event CALTRANS 
determines (at its sole discretion) that AGENCY failed to proceed with PROJECT work in 
accordance with the terms of this RGA. In the event of termination for convenience, 
CALTRANS will reimburse AGENCY for all allowable, authorized and non-cancelled costs up to 
the date of termination. 
 
 
16 of 448

--- page 17 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 4 of 16 
b. This RGA may be terminated by either party for any reason by giving written notice to the other 
party at least 30 days in advance of the effective date of such termination. In the event of 
termination for convenience, CALTRANS will reimburse AGENCY for all allowable, authorized, 
and non-cancelled costs up to the date of termination. 
c. AGENCY has 60 days after the Termination Date to submit accurate invoices to CALTRANS to 
make final allowable payments for Project costs in accordance to the terms of this RGA. Failure 
to submit invoices within this period of time shall result in a waiver by AGENCY of its right to 
reimbursement of expended costs. 
13. Budget Contingency Clause 
a. It is mutually agreed that if the US Congress or the State Legislature fail to appropriate or 
allocate funds during the current year and/or any subsequent years covered under this RGA do 
not appropriate sufficient funds for the program, this RGA shall be of no further force and effect. 
In this event, CALTRANS shall have no liability to pay any funds whatsoever to AGENCY or to 
furnish any other considerations under this RGA and AGENCY shall not be obligated to perform 
any provisions of this RGA. 
b. If funding for any fiscal year is reduced or deleted by US Congress or State Legislature for 
purposes of this program, CALTRANS shall have the option to either terminate this RGA with 
no liability occurring to CALTRANS, or offer an RGA Amendment to AGENCY to reflect 
reduced amount. 
14. Payment and Invoicing 
a. The method of payment for this RGA will be based on the actual allowable costs that are 
incurred in accordance with the provisions of this RGA and in the performance of the Project 
Work. CALTRANS will reimburse AGENCY for expended actual allowable direct costs, and 
including, but not limited to, labor costs, travel, and contracted consultant services costs 
incurred by AGENCY in performance of the Project work. Indirect costs are reimbursable only if 
the AGENCY has identified the estimated indirect cost rate in Attachment II and an approved 
Indirect Cost Allocation Plan or an Indirect Cost Rate Proposal as set forth in Section III–Cost 
Principles, Item 16d. The total cost shall not exceed the cost reimbursement limitation set forth 
in Section III–Cost Limitations, Item 11a. Actual costs shall not exceed the estimated wage 
rates, labor costs, travel, and other estimated costs and fees set forth in Attachment II without 
an amendment to this RGA, as agreed between CALTRANS and AGENCY. 
b. Reimbursement of AGENCY expenditures will be authorized only for those allowable costs 
actually incurred by AGENCY in accordance with the provisions of this RGA and in the 
performance of Project work. AGENCY must not only have incurred the expenditures on or after 
the start date and the issuance of the Notice to Proceed letter for this RGA and before the 
Expiration Date but must have also paid for those costs to claim any reimbursement. 
c. Travel expenses and per diem rates are not to exceed the rate specified by the State of 
California Department of Human Resources for similar employees (i.e. non-represented 
employees) unless written verification is supplied that government hotel rates were not then 
commercially available to AGENCY, its subrecipients, contractors, and/or subcontractors, at the 
time and location required as specified in the California Department of Transportation's Travel 
Guide Exception Process at the following link:  https://travelpocketguide.dot.ca.gov/. 
Also see website for summary of travel reimbursement rules. 
 
 
17 of 448

--- page 18 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 5 of 16 
d. AGENCY shall submit invoices to CALTRANS at least quarterly, but no more frequently than 
monthly, in arrears for completion of milestones in accordance with the Project Timeline in 
Attachment II to the satisfaction of CALTRANS Contract Manager. Invoices shall reference this 
RGA Number and shall be signed and submitted to CALTRANS Contract Manager at the 
following address, as stated in Section III–Notification of Parties, Item 8c. 
e. Invoices shall include the following information: 
1) Names of the AGENCY personnel performing work 
2) Dates and times of Project Work 
3) Locations of Project Work 
4) Itemized costs as set forth in Attachment II, including identification of each employee, 
contractor or subcontractor staff who provided services during the period of the invoice, the 
number of hours and hourly rates for each employee, contractor, sub-recipient or 
subcontractor staff member, authorized travel expenses with receipts, receipts for 
authorized materials or supplies, and contractor, subrecipient and subcontractor invoices. 
5) AGENCY shall submit written progress reports with each set of invoices to allow 
CALTRANS Contract Manager to determine if AGENCY is performing to expectations, is on 
schedule, is within funding cost limitations, to communicate interim findings, and to afford 
occasions for airing difficulties respecting special problems encountered so that remedies 
can be developed. 
f. Incomplete or inaccurate invoices shall be returned to the AGENCY unapproved for correction. 
Failure to submit invoices on a timely basis may be grounds for termination of this RGA for 
material breach per Section III–Termination, Item 12. 
g. CALTRANS will reimburse AGENCY for all allowable Project costs at least quarterly, but no 
more frequently than monthly, in arrears and in compliance with the California 45-day Prompt 
Payment Act (Cal. Gov. Code section 927), upon receipt of an itemized signed invoice. 
h. The RGA Expiration Date refers to the last date for AGENCY to incur valid Project costs or 
credits and is the date the RGA expires. AGENCY has 60 days after that Expiration Date to 
make final allowable payments to Project contractors or vendors and submit the Project’s Final 
Product(s) as defined in Attachment II and a final invoice to CALTRANS for reimbursement for 
allowable Project costs. Any unexpended Project funds not invoiced by the 60th day will be 
reverted and will no longer be accessible to reimburse late Project invoices contractor. 
15. Local Match Funds 
a. AGENCY shall contribute not less than a proportional cash amount toward the services 
described herein on a monthly or quarterly basis. The frequency of the payments shall be 
agreed upon by the parties in a document signed by both parties. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, to the extent that in-kind contributions are permitted and identified under this RGA, 
Section III–Project Funding, Item 6, the contributions may be counted as cash when they are 
actually received by CALTRANS.  Except where expressly allowed in writing herein, 
reimbursement of credits for local matching funds will be made or allowed only for work 
performed on and after the date of issuance of the Notice to Proceed and prior to the Expiration 
Date of this RGA. 
b. AGENCY agrees to contribute the statutorily required local contribution of matching funds if any 
is specified within this RGA or in any Attachment hereto, toward the actual cost of the services 
described in Attachment II. AGENCY shall contribute not less than its required match amount 
18 of 448

--- page 19 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 6 of 16 
toward the services described herein. Local cash and in-kind match requirements can be found 
in the applicable Grant Application Guide (Attachment III). 
16. Cost Principles 
a. AGENCY agrees to comply with Title 2, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 200, 
Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal 
Awards. 
b. AGENCY agrees, and will assure that its contractors, sub-recipients, and subcontractors will 
be obligated to agree, that (a) Contract Cost Principles and Procedures, 48 CFR, Federal 
Acquisition Regulations System, Chapter 1, Part 31, et seq., shall be used to determine the 
allowability of individual Project cost items and (b) and (b) all parties shall comply with 
Federal administrative procedures in accordance with 2 CFR, Part 200, Uniform 
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards.  
Every sub-recipient receiving Project funds as a sub-recipient, contractor, or subcontractor 
under this RGA shall comply with Federal administrative procedures in accordance with 2 
CFR, Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles and Audit 
Requirements for Federal Awards to the extent applicable. 
c. Any Project costs for which AGENCY has received payment or credit that are determined by 
subsequent audit to be unallowable under 2 CFR, Part 200, and/or Part 48, Chapter 1, Part 
31, are subject to repayment by AGENCY to CALTRANS. Should AGENCY fail to reimburse 
moneys due CALTRANS within 30 days of discovery or demand, or within such other period 
as may be agreed in writing between the parties hereto, CALTRANS is authorized to intercept 
and withhold future payments due AGENCY from CALTRANS or any third-party source, 
including, but not limited to, the State Treasurer, the State Controller or any other fund source. 
d. Prior to AGENCY seeking reimbursement of indirect costs, AGENCY must have identified 
estimated indirect cost rate in Attachment II, prepare and submit annually to CALTRANS for 
review and approval an indirect cost rate proposal and a central service cost allocation plan (if 
any) in accordance with 2 CFR, Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost 
Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards and Chapter 5 of the Local Assistance 
Procedures Manual which may be accessed at: https://dot.ca.gov/-/media/dot-
media/programs/local-assistance/documents/lapm/ch05.pdf. 
e. AGENCY agrees and shall require that all its agreements with consultants and subrecipients 
contain provisions requiring adherence to this section in its entirety except for section c, 
above. 
17. Americans with Disabilities Act 
By signing this Agreement, LOCAL AGENCY assures CALTRANS that in the course of 
performing Project Work, it will fully comply with the applicable provisions of the Americans with 
Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, as amended, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of 
disability, as well as all applicable regulations and guidelines issued pursuant to the ADA (42 USC 
Section 12101 et seq.). 
18. Iran Contracting Act 
Proposed Contractor must complete and submit to Caltrans the Iran Contracting Act Certification 
certifying that it is not on the most current DGS list of Entities Prohibited from Contracting with 
Public Entities in California per the Iran Contracting Act, 2010 
(https://www.dgs.ca.gov/PD/Resources/Page-Content/Procurement-Division-Resources-List-
Folder/List-of-Ineligible-Businesses), before the Agreement has been executed, unless Contractor 
19 of 448

--- page 20 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 7 of 16 
is exempted from the certification requirement by Public Contract Code Section 2205(c) or (d). If 
claiming an exemption, the proposed Contractor shall provide written evidence that supports an 
exemption under Public Contract Code Section 2203(c) or (d) before execution of the Agreement. 
19. Indemnification 
Neither CALTRANS nor any officer or employee thereof is responsible for any injury, damage, or 
liability occurring by reason of anything done or omitted to be done by AGENCY, its officers, 
employees, agents, its contractors, its subrecipients, or its subcontractors under or in connection 
with any work, authority, or jurisdiction conferred upon AGENCY under this RGA. It is understood 
and agreed that AGENCY shall fully defend, indemnify, and save harmless CALTRANS and all of 
CALTRANS’ officers and employees from all claims, suits, or actions of every name, kind, and 
description brought forth under, including, but not limited to, tortuous, contractual, inverse 
condemnation, or other theories or assertions of liability occurring by reason of anything done or 
omitted to be done by AGENCY, its officers, employees, agents, contractors, subrecipients, or 
subcontractors under this RGA. 
20. Nondiscrimination Clause (2 CCR 11105 Clause b) 
a. During the performance of this RGA, the AGENCY, its contractors, its subrecipients, and its 
subcontractors shall not deny the contract's benefits to any person on the basis of race, religious 
creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, 
genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual 
orientation, or military and veteran status, nor shall they discriminate unlawfully against any 
employee  or applicant for employment because of race, religious creed, color, national origin, 
ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital 
status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or military and 
veteran status.  AGENCY shall ensure that the evaluation and treatment of employees and 
applicants for employment are free of such discrimination. 
b. AGENCY shall comply with the provisions of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov. Code 
Sections 12900 et seq.), the regulations promulgated thereunder (California Code of 
Regulations, Title 2, Sections 11000 et seq.), the provisions of Article 9.5, Chapter 1, Part 1, 
Division 3, Title 2 of the Government Code (Gov. Code Sections 11135-11139.5), and the 
regulations or standards adopted by CALTRANS to implement such article. 
c. AGENCY shall permit access by representatives of the Department of Fair Employment and 
Housing and CALTRANS upon reasonable notice at any time during the normal business hours, 
but in no case less than 24 hours' notice, to such of its books, records, accounts, and all other 
sources of information and its facilities as said Department or CALTRANS shall require to 
ascertain compliance with this clause. 
d. AGENCY and its contractors, its sub-recipients, and its subcontractors shall give written notice of 
their obligations under this clause to labor organizations with which they have a collective 
bargaining or other agreement. 
e. AGENCY shall include the nondiscrimination and compliance provisions of this clause in all 
agreements with its sub-recipients, contractors, and subcontractors, and shall include a 
requirement in all agreements with all of same that each of them in turn include the 
nondiscrimination and compliance provisions of this clause in all contracts and subcontracts they 
enter into to perform work under the RGA. 
 
 
20 of 448

--- page 21 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 8 of 16 
21. Retention of Records/Audits 
a. AGENCY, its contractors, subcontractors and sub-recipients, agree to comply with Title 2, Code 
of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, 
and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards. 
b. AGENCY, its contractors, subcontractors and sub-recipients shall establish and maintain an 
accounting system and records that properly accumulate and segregate incurred Project costs 
and matching funds by line.  The accounting system of AGENCY, its contractors, all 
subcontractors, and sub-recipients shall conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(GAAP), enable the determination of incurred costs at interim points of completion, and provide 
support for reimbursement payment vouchers or invoices. All accounting records and other 
supporting papers of AGENCY, its contractors, subcontractors and sub-recipients connected with 
Project performance under this RGA shall be maintained for a minimum of three (3) years from 
the date of final payment to AGENCY and shall be held open to inspection, copying, and audit by 
representatives of CALTRANS, the California State Auditor, and auditors representing the 
federal government. Copies thereof will be furnished by AGENCY, its contractors, its 
subcontractors and sub-recipients upon receipt of any request made by CALTRANS or its 
agents.  In conducting an audit of the costs and match credits claimed under this RGA, 
CALTRANS will rely to the maximum extent possible on any prior audit of AGENCY pursuant to 
the provisions of State and AGENCY law. In the absence of such an audit, any acceptable audit 
work performed by AGENCY’s external and internal auditors may be relied upon and used by 
CALTRANS when planning and conducting additional audits. 
c. For the purpose of determining compliance with applicable State and AGENCY law in 
connection with the performance of AGENCY’s contracts with third parties pursuant to 
Government Code Section 8546.7, AGENCY, AGENCY’s sub-recipients, contractors, 
subcontractors, and CALTRANS, shall each maintain and make available for inspection all 
books, documents, papers, accounting records, and other evidence pertaining to the 
performance of such contracts, including, but not limited to, the costs of administering those 
various contracts. All of the above referenced parties shall make such materials available at 
their respective offices at all reasonable times during the entire Project period and for three 
(3) years from the date of final payment to AGENCY under this RGA. CALTRANS, the 
California State Auditor, or any duly authorized representative of CALTRANS or the United 
States Department of Transportation, shall each have access to any books, records, and 
documents that are pertinent to a Project for audits, examinations, excerpts, and 
transactions, and AGENCY shall furnish copies thereof if requested. 
d. AGENCY, its subrecipients, contractors, and subcontractors will permit access to all records of 
employment, employment advertisements, employment application forms, and other pertinent 
data and records by the State Fair Employment Practices and Housing Commission, or any 
other agency of the State of California designated by CALTRANS, for the purpose of any 
investigation to ascertain compliance with this RGA. 
e. Additionally, all grants may be subject to a pre-award audit prior to execution of the RGA to 
ensure AGENCY has an adequate financial management system in place to accumulate and 
segregate reasonable, allowable and allocable costs. 
f. Any contract with a contractor, subcontractor, or sub-recipient entered into as a result of this 
RGA shall contain all the provisions of this article. 
 
 
21 of 448

--- page 22 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 9 of 16 
22. Adjudication of Facts in Disputes 
a. Any dispute concerning a question of fact arising under this RGA that is not disposed of 
by agreement shall be decided by the CALTRANS Contract Officer, who may consider 
any written or verbal evidence submitted by AGENCY. The CALTRANS Contract Officer 
shall issue a written decision within 30 days of receipt of the dispute. If AGENCY rejects 
the decision of the CALTRANS Contract Officer, AGENCY can pursue any and all 
remedies authorized by law. Neither party waives any rights to pursue remedies 
authorized by law. 
b. Neither the pendency of a dispute nor its consideration by CALTRANS Contract Officer 
will excuse AGENCY from full and timely performance in accordance with the terms of 
the RGA. 
23. Third-Party Contracts 
a. AGENCY shall perform the work contemplated with resources available within its own 
organization and no portion of the work shall be contracted to a third party without prior 
written authorization by the CALTRANS Contract Manager unless expressly included 
(subrecipient identified) in Attachment II as part of the identified Project work. 
b. All State-government-funded procurements must be conducted using a fair and competitive 
procurement process. AGENCY may use its own procurement procedures as long as the 
procedures comply with the local AGENCY’s laws, rules, and ordinances governing 
procurement and all applicable provisions of State law, including, without limitation, the 
requirement that the AGENCY endeavor to obtain at least three (3) competitive bids for 
solicitation of goods, services, and consulting services (see Part 2, Chapter 2, Articles 3 
and 4 of the Public Contract Code); a qualifications-based solicitation process, for which 
statements of qualifications are obtained from at least three (3) qualified firms for 
architecture and engineering services (see Title 1, Division 5, Chapter 10 of the 
Government Code); and, the provisions of the State Contracting Manual (SCM), Chapter 5, 
which are not inconsistent with this Item 23, Third Party Contracts.  The SCM can be 
found and the following link:https://www.dgs.ca.gov/OLS/Resources/Page-Content/Office-
of-Legal-Services-Resources-List-Folder/State-Contracting. 
c. Any contract entered into as a result of this RGA shall contain all the provisions stipulated in 
this RGA to be applicable to AGENCY’s sub-recipients, contractors, and subcontractors. 
Copies of all agreements with sub-recipients, contractors, and subcontractors, must be 
submitted to the CALTRANS Contract Manager. 
d. CALTRANS does not have a contractual relationship with the AGENCY’s subrecipients, 
contractors, or subcontractors, and the AGENCY shall be fully responsible for all work 
performed by its subrecipients, contractors, or subcontractors. 
e. Prior authorization in writing by the CALTRANS Contract Manager shall be required before 
AGENCY enters into any non-budgeted purchase order or sub-agreement for supplies or 
consultant services. AGENCY shall provide an evaluation of the necessity or desirability of 
incurring such costs. AGENCY shall retain all receipts for such purchases or services and 
shall submit them with invoices per Section III–Payment and Invoicing, Item 14(e)(4), 
above. 
 
 
22 of 448

--- page 23 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 10 of 16 
f. Any contract entered into by AGENCY as a result of this RGA shall mandate that travel and per 
diem reimbursements and third-party contract reimbursements to subrecipients, contractors, 
and subcontractors, will be allowable as Project costs only after those costs are incurred and 
paid for by the subrecipients, contractors, and subcontractors. Travel expenses and per diem 
rates for subcontractors shall be reimbursed pursuant to Section III–Payment and Invoicing, 
Item 14c, above. 
24. Drug-Free Workplace Certification 
By signing this RGA, AGENCY hereby certifies under penalty of perjury under the laws of 
California that AGENCY will comply with the requirements of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 
1990 (Gov. Code Sections 8350 et seq.) and will provide a Drug-Free workplace by doing all of 
the following: 
A. Publish a statement notifying employees that unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, 
possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited and specifying actions to be taken 
against employees for violations, as required by Government Code Section 8355(a)(1). 
B. Establish a Drug-Free Awareness Program as required by Government Code Section 
8355(a)(2) to inform employees about all the following: 
1) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace; 
2) The person's or organization's policy of maintaining a Drug-Free workplace; 
3) Any available counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and 
4) Penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse violations. 
C. Provide, as required by Government Code Section 8355(a)(3), that every employee who works 
on the proposed contract or grant: 
1) Will receive a copy of the company's Drug-Free Policy Statement. 
2) Will agree to abide by the terms of the company's statement as a condition of employment 
on the contract or grant. 
D. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in suspension of payments under this 
RGA or termination of this RGA or both, and AGENCY may be ineligible for the award of any 
future state contracts if CALTRANS determines that any of the following has occurred: (1) 
AGENCY has made a false certification or, (2) AGENCY violates the certification by failing to 
carry out the requirements as noted above. 
25. Relationship of Parties 
It is expressly understood that this agreement is executed by and between two (2) independent 
governmental entities and is not intended to, and shall not be construed to, create the 
relationship of agent, servant, employee, partnership, joint venture or association, or any other 
relationship whatsoever other than that of an independent party. 
26. State-Owned Data 
a. AGENCY agrees to comply with the following requirements to ensure the preservation, 
security, and integrity of State-owned data on portable computing devices and portable 
electronic storage media: 
1) Encrypt all State-owned data stored on portable computing devices and portable 
electronic storage media using government-certified Advanced Encryption Standard 
(AES) cipher algorithm with a 256-bit or 128-bit encryption key to protect CALTRANS 
23 of 448

--- page 24 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 11 of 16 
data stored on every sector of a hard drive, including temp files, cached data, 
hibernation files, and even unused disk space. 
2) Data encryption shall use cryptographic technology that has been tested and approved 
against exacting standards, such as FIPS 140-2 Security Requirements for Cryptographic 
Modules. 
3) Encrypt, as described above, all State-owned data transmitted from one computing 
device or storage medium to another. 
4) Maintain confidentiality of all State-owned data by limiting data sharing to those 
individuals contracted to provide services on behalf of the State, and limit use of State 
information assets for State purposes only. 
5) Install and maintain current anti-virus software, security patches, and upgrades on all 
computing devices used during the course of the Agreement. 
6) Notify the CALTRANS Contract Manager immediately of any actual or attempted 
violations of security of State-owned data, including lost or stolen computing devices, 
files, or portable electronic storage media containing State-owned data. 
7) Advise the owner of the State-owned data, the AGENCY Information Security Officer, 
and the AGENCY Chief Information Officer of vulnerabilities that may present a threat to 
the security of State-owned data and of specific means of protecting that State-owned 
data. 
b. AGENCY agrees to use the State-owned data only for State purposes under this Agreement. 
c. AGENCY agrees to not transfer State-owned data to any computing system, mobile device, or 
desktop computer without first establishing the specifications for information integrity and security 
as established for the original data file(s) (State Administrative Manual (SAM) Section 5335.1). 
27. Assumption of Risk and Indemnification Regarding Exposure to Environmental Health Hazards 
In addition to, and not a limitation of, Contractor’s indemnification obligations contained elsewhere 
in this Agreement, Contractor hereby assumes all risks of the consequences of exposure of 
Contractor’s employees, agents, Subcontractors, Subcontractors’ employees, and any other 
person, firm, or corporation furnishing or supplying work services, materials, or supplies in 
connection with the performance of this Agreement, to any and all environmental health hazards, 
local and otherwise, in connection with the performance of this Agreement. Such hazards include, 
but are not limited to, bodily injury and/or death resulting in whole or in part from exposure to 
infectious agents and/or pathogens of any type, kind or origin. Contractor also agrees to take all 
appropriate safety precautions to prevent any such exposure to Contractor’s employees, agents, 
Subcontractors, Subcontractors’ employees, and any other person, firm or corporation furnishing or 
supplying work services, materials, or supplies in connection with the performance of this 
Agreement. Contractor also agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Caltrans, the State of California, 
and each and all of their officers, agents and employees, from any and all claims and/or losses 
accruing or resulting from such exposure. Except as provided by law, Contractor also agrees that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall apply regardless of the existence or degree of negligence or 
fault on the part of Caltrans, the State of California, and/or any of their officers, agents and/or 
employees. 
28. Mandatory Organic Waste Recycling 
It is understood and agreed that pursuant to Public Resources Code Sections 42649.8 et seq., if 
Contractor generates two (2) cubic yards or more of organic waste or commercial solid waste per 
week, Contractor shall arrange for organic waste or commercial waste recycling services that 
24 of 448

--- page 25 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 12 of 16 
separate/source organic waste for organic waste recycling. Contractor shall provide proof of 
compliance, i.e. organic waste recycling services or commercial waste recycling services that 
separate/source organic waste recycling, upon request from Caltrans Contract Manager 
29. Project Close Out/Final Product 
a. AGENCY will provide two (2) electronic versions of the Final Product(s) to the CALTRANS 
Contract Manager. 
b. CALTRANS reserves the right to withhold final payment to AGENCY pending receipt of 
Final Product(s) to the CALTRANS Contract Manager. 
c. AGENCY will provide one (1) Integrated Climate Adaptation and Resiliency Program 
(ICARP) final case study/write-up to the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research 
(OPR). The final case study is due at time of project end date and should highlight 
outcomes, lessons learned, and upcoming adaptation opportunity of the project. 
30. Ownership of Proprietary Property 
a. Definitions 
1) Work: The work to be directly or indirectly produced by AGENCY under this RGA.  
2) Work Product: All deliverables created or produced from Work under this RGA including 
but not limited to, all Work and Deliverables conceived or made, or made hereafter 
conceived or made, either solely or jointly with others during the term of this RGA and during 
a period of six (6) months after the termination thereof, which relates to the Work 
commissioned or performed under this RGA.  “Work Product” includes all deliverables, 
inventions, innovations, improvements, or other works of authorship AGENCY, its 
subrecipients, a third-party contractor or subcontractor may conceive of or develop in the 
course of this RGA, whether or not they are eligible for patent, copyright, trademark, trade 
secret, or other legal protection. 
3) Inventions: Any idea, methodologies, design, concept, technique, invention, discovery, 
improvement or development regardless of patentability made solely by AGENCY or jointly 
with the AGENCY’s contractor, subcontractor and/or subrecipient and/or the AGENCY’s 
contractor, subcontractor and/or subrecipient’s employees with one or more employees of 
CALTRANS, during the term of this RGA and in performance of any Work under this RGA, 
provided that either the conception or reduction to practice thereof occurs during the term of 
this RGA and in performance of Work issued under this RGA. 
b. Ownership of Work Product and Rights 
1) Copyright Ownership of Work Product: Except in regard to Pre-existing Works, all Work 
Product derived by the Work performed by the AGENCY, its employees, or by any of the 
AGENCY’s contractor’s, subcontractor’s, and/or subrecipient’s employees under this RGA, 
shall be owned by CALTRANS and AGENCY and shall be considered to be works made for 
hire by the AGENCY and AGENCY’s contractor, subcontractor, and/or subrecipient for 
CALTRANS and AGENCY. CALTRANS and AGENCY shall own all United States and 
international copyrights in the Work Product. 
As such, all Work Product shall contain, in a conspicuous place, a copyright designation 
consisting of a “c” in a circle followed by the four-digit year in which the Work Product was 
produced, followed by the words “California Department of Transportation and AGENCY.  
All Rights Reserved.”  For example, a Work Product created in the year 2012 would contain 
the copyright designation © 2012 California Department of Transportation, and AGENCY.  
All Rights Reserved. 
25 of 448

--- page 26 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 13 of 16 
2) Vesting of Copyright Ownership: AGENCY, its employees, and all of AGENCY’s 
contractor’s, subcontractor’s, and subrecipient’s employees, agrees to perpetually assign, 
and upon creation of each Work Product automatically assigns, to CALTRANS and 
AGENCY, its successors, and assigns, ownership of all United States and international 
copyrights in each and every Work Product, insofar as any such Work Product, by 
operation of law, may not be considered work made for hire by the AGENCY’s contractor, 
subcontractor, and/or subrecipient from CALTRANS. From time to time, CALTRANS and 
the AGENCY shall require its contractors, subcontractors, and/or subrecipients and their 
respective employees to confirm such assignments by execution and delivery of such 
assignments, confirmations, or assignment, or other written instruments as CALTRANS and 
the AGENCY may request. CALTRANS and the AGENCY, its successors, and assigns, 
shall have the right to obtain and hold in its or their own name(s) all copyright registrations 
and other evidence of rights that may be available for Work Product. AGENCY shall require 
contractors, including subcontractors, to waive all moral rights relating to identification of 
authorship restriction or limitation on use, or subsequent modifications of the Work. 
c. 
Inventions 
1) Vesting of Patent Ownership: AGENCY agrees to require subrecipients, contractors, 
subcontractors and their respective employees to assign to CALTRANS and AGENCY, its 
successors, and assigns, all Inventions, together with the right to seek protection by 
obtaining patent ownership rights and the right to claim all rights or priority there under, and 
the same shall become and remain CALTRANS’ property regardless of whether such 
protection is sought. The AGENCY, its employees, and AGENCY’s contractor, 
subcontractor, and subrecipient shall promptly make a complete written disclosure to 
CALTRANS of each Invention not otherwise clearly disclosed to CALTRANS in the 
pertinent Work Product, specifically pointing out features or concepts that the AGENCY, its 
employees, and/or AGENCY’s contractor, subcontractor, and/or subrecipient believes to be 
new or different. The AGENCY, its employees, and AGENCY’s contractor, subcontractor, 
and subrecipient shall, upon CALTRANS and AGENCY’s request and at CALTRANS and 
AGENCY’s expense, cause patent applications to be filed thereon, through solicitors 
designated by CALTRANS and AGENCY, and shall sign all such applications over to 
CALTRANS and AGENCY, its successors, and assigns. The AGENCY, its employees, and 
AGENCY’s contractor, subcontractor, and subrecipient shall give CALTRANS and 
AGENCY and its solicitors all reasonable assistance in connection with the preparation and 
prosecution of any such patent applications and shall cause to be executed all such 
assignments or other instruments or documents as CALTRANS and AGENCY may 
consider necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent on this RGA. 
2) Agency: In the event that CALTRANS and AGENCY are unable for any reason whatsoever 
to secure the AGENCY’s, its employees’, and/or AGENCY’s contractor’s, subcontractor’s, 
and/or sub-recipient’s, signature to any lawful or necessary document required or desirable 
to apply for or prosecute any United States application (including renewals or divisions 
thereof), AGENCY, its employees, and AGENCY’s contractor, subcontractor, and 
subrecipient hereby irrevocably designates and appoints CALTRANS and AGENCY and its 
duly authorized officers and agents, as its agent and attorney-in-fact, to act for and on 
AGENCY, its employees, and AGENCY’s contractor’s, subcontractor’s, and subrecipient 
behalf and stead, to execute and file such applications and to do all other lawfully permitted 
acts to further the prosecution and issuance of any copyrights, trademarks, or patents 
thereon with the same legal force and effect as if executed by AGENCY, its employees, and 
AGENCY’s contractor, subcontractor, and subrecipient. CALTRANS and AGENCY shall 
have no obligations to file any copyright, trademark, or patent applications. 
26 of 448

--- page 27 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 14 of 16 
d. 
Additional Provisions 
1) Avoidance of infringement: In performing services under this RGA, AGENCY and its 
employees agree to avoid designing or developing any items that infringe one or more 
patents or other intellectual property rights of any third party. If AGENCY or its employees 
becomes aware of any such possible infringement in the course of performing any Work 
under this RGA, AGENCY or its employees shall immediately notify CALTRANS in writing. 
2) Pre-existing Works and License: AGENCY agrees to require contractors, subcontractors, 
and subrecipients to acknowledge that all Work Product shall be the sole and exclusive 
property of CALTRANS and AGENCY, except that any Pre-existing Works created by 
AGENCY and third parties outside of the RGA but utilized in connection with the RGA (the 
“Pre-existing Works”) shall continue to be owned by AGENCY or such parties. AGENCY 
agrees to notify CALTRANS in writing of any Pre-existing Works used in connection with 
any Work Product produced under this RGA and hereby grants to CALTRANS a non-
exclusive, irrevocable, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free license to utilize the Pre-existing 
Works in connection with the Work Product. 
3) Contractors, Subcontractors, and Subrecipients: Through contract with its subrecipients, 
contractors, and subcontractors, AGENCY shall affirmatively bind by contract all of its 
contractors, subcontractors, subrecipients, and service vendors (hereinafter “AGENCY’s 
Contractor/Subcontractor/Sub-recipient”) providing services under this RGA to conform to 
the provisions of this Exhibit. In performing services under this RGA, AGENCY’s 
Contractor/Subcontractor/Subrecipient shall agree to avoid designing or developing any 
items that infringe one or more patents or other intellectual property rights of any third party. 
If AGENCY’s Contractor/Subcontractor/Subrecipient becomes aware of any such possible 
infringement in the course of performing any Work under this RGA, AGENCY’s 
Contractor/Subcontractor/Subrecipient shall immediately notify the AGENCY in writing, and 
AGENCY shall then immediately notify the CALTRANS in writing. 
e. 
Ownership of Data 
1) Upon completion of all Work under this RGA, all intellectual property rights, ownership, and 
title to all reports, documents, plans, specifications, and estimates, produced as part of this 
RGA will automatically be vested in CALTRANS and AGENCY and no further agreement 
will be necessary to transfer ownership to CALTRANS and AGENCY. The AGENCY, its 
contractors, subcontractors, and subrecipients, shall furnish CALTRANS all necessary 
copies of data needed to complete the review and approval process. 
2) It is understood and agreed that all calculations, drawings, and specifications, whether in 
hard copy of machine-readable form, are intended for one-time use in the Project for which 
this RGA has been entered into. 
3) AGENCY, its contractors, subcontractors, and subrecipients, are not liable for claims, 
liabilities, or losses arising out of, or connected with, the modification or misuse by 
CALTRANS of the machine-readable information and data provided by AGENCY, its 
contractors, subcontractors, and subrecipients, under this RGA; further, AGENCY, its 
contractors, subcontractors, and subrecipients, are not liable for claims, liabilities or losses 
arising out of, or connected with, any use by CALTRANS of the Project documentation on 
other projects, for additions to this Project, or for the completion of this project by others, 
excepting only such use as may be authorized, in writing, by AGENCY, its contractors, 
subcontractors, and subrecipients. 
27 of 448

--- page 28 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 15 of 16 
4) Any sub-agreement in excess of $25,000.00 entered into as a result of this RGA shall 
contain all of the provisions of this clause. 
31. ADA Compliance 
All entities that provide electronic or information technology or related services that will be posted 
online by Caltrans must be in compliance with Government Code Sections 7405 and 11135 and the 
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 or subsequent version, published by the Web 
Accessibility Initiative of the World Wide Web Consortium at a minimum Level AA success. All 
entities will respond to and resolve any complaints/deficiencies regarding accessibility brought to 
their attention. 
32. Electronic Signatures 
Each party agrees that the electronic signatures, whether digital or encrypted, of the parties 
included in this Agreement are intended to authenticate this writing and to have the same force and 
effect as manual signatures for this Agreement. Documents that are referenced by this Agreement 
may still require manual signatures. 
33. Executive Order N-6-22 – Russia Sanctions 
On March 4, 2022, Governor Gavin Newsom issued Executive Order N-6-22 (the EO) regarding 
Economic Sanctions against Russia and Russian entities and individuals. “Economic Sanctions” 
refers to sanctions imposed by the U.S. government in response to Russia’s actions in Ukraine, as 
well as any sanctions imposed under state law unless the contract has been Federalized (i.e. there 
is federal participation in any phase). The EO directs state agencies to terminate contracts with, and 
to refrain from entering any new contracts with, individuals or entities that are determined to be a 
target of Economic Sanctions. Accordingly, should the State determine Contractor is a target of 
Economic Sanctions or is conducting prohibited transactions with sanctioned individuals or entities, 
that shall be grounds for termination of this agreement. The State shall provide Contractor advance 
written notice of such termination, allowing Contractor at least 30 calendar days to provide a written 
response. Termination shall be at the sole discretion of the State.  
 
 
28 of 448

--- page 29 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Page 16 of 16 
Section IV 
Attachments: 
The following attachments are incorporated into and are made a part of this RGA by this reference 
and attachment. 
I. 
AGENCY Resolution 
ll. 
Scope of Work and Project Timeline 
III. 
Grant Application Guide 
In Witness Whereof, the parties hereto have executed this RGA on the day and year first herein 
above written: 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
By: 
By: 
Printed Name: 
Printed Name: 
Title: 
Title: 
Date: 
Date: 
By: 
Printed Name: 
Title: 
Date: 
By: 
Printed Name: 
Title: 
Date: 
 
29 of 448

--- page 30 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. 86 (2024)
APPROVAL AUTHORITY FOR AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND THE CALIFORNIA 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORATION (CALTRANS) FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF A CLIMATE ADAPTATION PLAN 
FOR SEA LEVEL RISE THROUGH THE SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORATION PLANNING GRANT PROGRAM
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo applied to the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans)
Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program, specifically, the Climate Adaptation Planning Grant for the 
development of a Climate Adaptation Plan for Sea Level Rise; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo received a conditional award letter for the 2024-25 Sustainable 
Transportation Planning Grant; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo is eligible to receive state funding for certain transportation planning 
related plans through Caltrans; and
WHEREAS, a Restricted Grant Agreement is needed to be executed with Caltrans before such funds can 
be reimbursed through the Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program; and
WHEREAS, the Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program requires the adoption of a 
resolution identifying and authorizing the Restricted Grant Agreement signee prior to contract finalization; and 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo wishes to delegate authorization to the City Manager to execute these 
agreements and any amendments thereto.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines
Section 15378(b)(5).)
2.
The City Manager is authorized to execute all Restricted Grant Agreements and any amendments
thereto with Caltrans in furtherance of the development of a Climate Adaption Plan for Sea Level Rise
through the Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program.
RESOLUTION NO. 86 (2024) adopted by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, California, at a regular meeting 
held on September 16, 2024, by the following vote of the City Council:
AYES:
Council Members Diaz Nash, Newsom, Loraine, Hedges and Lee
NOES:
None
ABSENT: 
None
ATTEST:
Martin McTaggart, City Clerk
Lisa Diaz Nash, Mayor
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment I
Page 1 of 1
30 of 448

--- page 31 ---
Page 2 of 7 
SCOPE OF WORK 
Project Information 
Grant Category 
Climate Adaptation Planning 
Grant Fiscal Year 
FY 2024-25 
Project Title 
Climate Adaptation Planning for Sea Level Rise 
Organization 
(Legal name) 
City of San Mateo 
Disclaimer 
Agency commits to the Scope of Work below. Any changes will need to be approved by 
Caltrans prior to initiating any Scope of Work change or amendment. 
Introduction 
The City of San Mateo is located in the County of San Mateo, California, and is a transportation 
nexus with local roads, highways, bus routes, and rail passing through its boundaries. Climate 
change-related effects such as sea level rise near-term and long-term threats to the coastal City 
of San Mateo and its transportation infrastructure. The City of San Mateo seeks grant funding to 
support its climate adaptation planning efforts related to sea level rise to address increased 
threat of flooding due to climate change, with the ultimate aim of protecting its residents and 
infrastructure. 
Continued advancements in scientific understanding of climate change have resulted in 
iterative updates to sea level rise projections. These iterative updates have generally trended 
toward predicting increasing magnitudes of sea level rise. The higher magnitudes of sea level 
rise correspond with increased projected tide and storm surge heights. Current projections of a 
“mid-level” 2100 sea level rise scenario (estimated as 3.3 feet of sea level rise combined with a 
1% annual chance storm) show inundation of 39% of the land within the City of San Mateo, 
which includes flooding of 24 of 49 highway/railway bridges, 20.8 miles of highway (including 
overtopping of Highway 101), the Hayward Park Caltrain Station, and 38% of the local roads. 
Further, with passage of California Senate Bill 272 (SB272), a climate adaptation plan specific to 
sea level rise would serve as the basis of a document which would satisfy the future requirements 
set forth by the California Coastal Commission for sea level rise plans. 
In summary, as demonstrated in the sea level rise projections, the transportation infrastructure 
within the City of San Mateo is highly vulnerable to current and future flooding due to sea level 
rise-induced flooding. The City therefore proposes the following primary technical project 
activities to be supported by climate adaptation grant funding: development of a climate 
adaptation plan specific to sea level rise. 
Project Stakeholders 
Preparation of deliverables will likely require collaboration with the following stakeholders: 
Caltrans; San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission (BCDC); County of San 
Mateo; City of Burlingame; City of Foster City; Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board (Caltrain); 
specialized transportation providers; commuters; residents; and visitors. The City of San Mateo will 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment II
Page 1 of 7
31 of 448

--- page 32 ---
Page 3 of 7 
 
also work with Caltrans to identify and address transportation deficiencies within the bounds of 
the project scope. 
 
City staff will employ a competitive RFP process consistent with the State Contracting Manual, 
Chapter 5, the Local Assistance Procedures Manual, Chapter 10, and the terms of the 
agreement with Caltrans to procure a consulting firm or team of firms to provide design 
consulting services, including public outreach services. 
 
Once the project begins, City staff and the consultant team will meet regularly throughout the 
project, ideally on a bi-weekly schedule, to provide review for ongoing activities and 
collaborate on project direction and actions. The bi-weekly meetings will include the City’s 
project manager, deputy project manager, team members as indicated to provide specific 
content, the consultant’s project manager, and other key project staff. 
 
Overall Project Objectives 
The goals of the project are as follows: 
• 
Develop an adaptation plan for the City of San Mateo specific to sea level rise, 
including: review and summarization of available regional vulnerability and adaptation 
plans; development of a list of critical infrastructure assets (including transportation 
infrastructure) which would be impacted by sea level rise; summary of neighborhoods 
within the City of San Mateo which are projected to be affected by sea level rise; 
development of a list of prioritized capital improvement projects to protect assets 
located within the City of San Mateo; development of key coordination (including 
permitting) required with adjacent cities and agencies with assets located within the City 
of San Mateo; studying the implications of enacting a zoning ordinance specific to sea 
level rise 
 
Summary of Project Tasks 
Task 01: Project Administration 
Kick-Off Meeting 
At the start of the grant, the City of San Mateo will hold a kickoff meeting which includes 
Caltrans and other as-needed project stakeholders. 
Invoicing and Progress Reports 
The City of San Mateo will send Caltrans quarterly invoices with progress reports. The project will 
be managed and administered in accordance with the Grant Application Guidelines and the 
executed grant contract with Caltrans. This is an Administrative Task that will only be charged 
against the City of San Mateo for the Administration of this grant project.  
Costs for this task will not exceed 5% of the grant award amount.Task Deliverables 
Kick-off meeting with Caltrans – Meeting Notes, quarterly invoices, and progress reports 
 
Task 02: Consultant Procurement 
Prepare Request for Proposals 
City of San Mateo staff will prepare a Request for Proposals (RFP) for a consultant to assist with 
technical elements of the climate adaptation plan specific to sea level rise.  
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment II
Page 2 of 7
32 of 448

--- page 33 ---
Page 4 of 7 
 
Distribute RFPs 
City of San Mateo staff will post the RFP on its website and distribute it to interested firms. City of 
San Mateo staff will provide answers to consultant questions on the RFP website in accordance 
with the schedule established in the RFP. As part of this task, the City of San Mateo will provide 
Caltrans a copy of its procurement procedures. 
RFP Review Committees 
The City of San Mateo will organize a review committee for reviewing and awarding the 
consultant contracts. The review committee will be comprised of the City of San Mateo staff. 
Contract with Consultant 
The City of San Mateo will contract with the selected qualified consultants, consistent with state 
and federal requirements, Local Assistance Procedures Manual for procuring non-Architectural 
and engineering consultants, the Grant Application Guide and the executed grant contract 
between Caltrans and the grantee. As part of this scope, City of San Mateo staff expects to 
present the contract(s) to City Council for review and approval. 
Task Deliverables 
Request for Proposals (RFP): Climate adaptation study specific to sea level rise 
Copy of City of San Mateo’s procurement procedures 
Consultant contract (and amendments if needed) 
Council agenda and staff reports for contract acceptance 
 
Task 1:  Existing Conditions 
The project team expects an assessment of existing conditions related to sea level rise climate 
adaptation planning. 
For the sea level rise climate adaptation planning, the project team will prepare a draft report 
summarizing existing state, regional, and county-specific studies related to sea level rise.  The 
purpose of this summary is to show the evolving projections related to sea level rise and the 
assets which could be impacted by the projections. The draft report will include a general 
overview of the City of San Mateo, a summary of current shoreline flood protection infrastructure 
and the level of protection currently provided, a summary of previous regional, state, and 
federal documents on sea level rise (including consideration of publications by Adapting to 
Rising Tides), a summary of assets which previous studies have shown will be impacted by future 
sea level rise if no further improvements are implemented, and current zoning of the areas which 
are projected to be impacted by future sea level rise. The City of San Mateo expects the 
consultant to organize a field visit to meet with project stakeholders and perform field 
reconnaissance at areas of particular interest, such as areas where interagency coordination 
may be required. The existing conditions report will be kept in draft format and is intended to be 
an introductory section in the final deliverable for the climate adaptation report which is 
proposed as part of this grant application. 
 
Task Deliverables 
Climate Adaptation Planning for Sea Level Rise: Existing Conditions Assessment 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment II
Page 3 of 7
33 of 448

--- page 34 ---
Page 5 of 7 
 
 
Task 2: Analysis 
The following analysis is anticipated to support the proposed grant activities. 
Sea Level Rise Adaptation Planning 
The analysis proposed within this Task is intended to prepare a City-specific adaptation plan for 
the City of San Mateo. Ultimately, however, the threat posed by sea level rise cannot be 
addressed by a single local agency, and is likely to be either expanded upon, or incorporated 
into, a county-wide or regional adaptation plan. The analysis proposed below may be 
amended based on recommendations from the retained consultant. 
The City will incorporate findings from the Existing Conditions Assessment to perform the following 
analysis: 
1) Develop criteria for prioritizing vulnerable areas 
2) Identify areas which could have updated zoning ordinances to account for future sea 
level rise 
3) Develop criteria for selecting a prevailing sea level rise model in the absence of 
standardized sea level rise guidance, including consideration of published guidance 
documents such as BCDC’s Climate Change Policy Guidance 
4) Perform an analysis of progressive infrastructure and service failures which would be 
occur at varying intervals of unmitigated sea level rise, including consideration of spatial 
resources included in published resources such as BCDC’s Adapting to Rising Tides 
5) Identify areas which are at risk for environmental contamination due to rising 
groundwater levels (associated with sea level rise) 
6) Hydrologic and hydraulic modeling to establish minimum elevations, including additional 
freeboard, required to address projected sea level rise for 2050 and 2100 
7) Evaluate the boundaries where a zoning ordinance specific to sea level rise could be 
implemented 
8) Planning-level analysis of proposed capital improvement projects which would achieve 
the minimum elevations required to address projected sea level rise for 2050 and 2100, 
including identification of where coordination would be required to provide connected 
sea level rise defense infrastructure (for example at City boundaries and analysis of 
required permitting to initiate/implement the proposed projects  
9)  Collaborate with neighboring jurisdictions to inform regional improvements and 
planning-level analysis 
10) Consider San Francisco Estuary Institute’s San Francisco Bay Shoreline Adaptation Atlas to 
identify candidate projects (if any) which could employ nature-based adaptation 
measures  
11) Prepare a prioritized list of facilities and infrastructure which may require site-specific 
adaptation plans 
12) Study funding and financing for implementing capital improvement projects specific to 
sea level rise 
Following completion of these analyses, the findings and conclusions of the analysis will be 
summarized in a draft technical memorandum for review by the City of San Mateo and 
other relevant stakeholders. The technical memorandum is intended to remain in draft 
format, and its contents will be included as sections in the final deliverable for the climate 
adaptation report which is proposed as part of this grant application. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment II
Page 4 of 7
34 of 448

--- page 35 ---
Page 6 of 7 
 
 
Task Deliverables 
Climate Adaptation Planning for Sea Level Rise: Technical Memorandum of Analyses 
 
Task 3: Public Outreach 
The proposed grant activities are technical in nature. Opportunities to incorporate public 
feedback will therefore be primarily limited to ascertaining public appetite for certain types of 
projects to address sea level rise and receiving feedback on areas where the public perceives 
sea level rise to pose the greatest threat. 
Flyers and Press Releases 
Flyers will be mailed to residents of the City of San Mateo, and posted at several locations 
around the planning area, including City Hall, Central Park, and other areas which are regularly 
accessed by the community. The flyers will be mailed concurrent with the Existing Conditions 
work, so that residents are notified of the project. The flyers will also advertise the dates of public 
workshops, so that community feedback is received and, where possible, incorporated into the 
project planning elements. An estimated 40,000 flyers will be mailed per mailing event, with one 
mailing event during the Existing Conditions work, and another mailing event following review 
and inclusion of community feedback prior to finalization of the adaptation planning report. 
Press releases will also be sent to local newspaper media outlets, including the San Mateo Daily 
Journal and The Mercury News. 
Community Meetings 
Community meetings will include a presentation, and a Q&A session will be held with members 
of the team, including City of San Mateo. Staff anticipates community meeting presentations to 
introduce the project and anticipated project milestones, to present the Existing Conditions task 
deliverables, and review preliminary findings and possible solutions. Staff will confer with 
consultant to determine the number of community meetings and timing. 
The field visit will be performed after the first community meeting, and will include the Project 
Team, members of the Steering Committee, and a select number of interested public members 
will also be invited. 
As a reminder, these projects are technical in nature, and therefore, opportunities to incorporate 
public feedback are limited. The City will still include the public by keeping them informed of the 
progress of the project and providing informational material as the analysis progresses. The 
demographic of the City’s lower-lying areas are historically disadvantaged, and therefore, 
adaptation planning related to sea level rise addresses social equity by planning for the defense 
of these lower-lying areas against sea level rise.  
 
Task Deliverables 
Flyers and Press Releases 
Community Meeting Materials 
 
Task 4: Technical Advisory Committee Meetings 
Staff from local jurisdictions and agencies, state agencies (including San Francisco Bay 
Conservation and Development Commission), conservation groups, and other relevant 
technical experts beyond the immediate Project Team will be invited to join a Technical 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment II
Page 5 of 7
35 of 448

--- page 36 ---
Page 7 of 7 
 
Advisory Committee (Committee). The Committee will meet three times. The Committee will 
provide technical guidance and feedback on development and evaluation of the proposed 
technical deliverables, as well as provide input on tasks which should be prioritized following the 
planning-level activities within this grant. 
The timing of the Committee meetings is anticipated to occur 1) during development of the 
Request for Proposals; 2) after draft technical memoranda from Task 2 are complete; and 3) and 
following preparation of a draft plan (described in Task 5). 
Task Deliverables 
Agendas and Meeting Minutes 
 
Task 5: Draft and Final Plan 
Draft Plan 
The consultants selected during the RFP process will develop a draft plan based on existing 
conditions and analysis. The draft plan will describe potential solutions and strategies, with 
incorporation of input from the public and the Advisory Committee. 
Comment Period 
The draft plan will be posted for comment for at least four weeks. Following the comment 
period, City of San Mateo staff and the consultants will review the comments, and, if 
appropriate, revise the draft plan to address relevant comments. 
Final Plan 
Following addition of any revisions performed as part of the comment period, City of San Mateo 
staff and its consultants will publish a final plan for climate adaptation specific to sea level rise. 
As discussed in Task 2, the Final Plan will include the funding and financing analysis for 
implementation, and will include credit to FHWA, FTA, and/or Caltrans’ financial participation on 
the cover or title page. An ADA-accessible electronic copy of the final reports will also be 
provided to the Caltrans district office responsible for the administration and oversight of the 
grant. 
Task Deliverables 
Draft Plan 
Final Plan 
 
Task 6: Board Review/Approval 
City of San Mateo staff and the respective consultants will present the completed final Climate 
Adaptation Planning for Sea Level Rise report to the San Mateo City Council for acceptance 
and/or approval. City staff and consultants will prepare materials to present to San Mateo’s City 
Council. 
Task Deliverables 
City Council agenda and staff report 
Powerpoint presentations for City Council meetings 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment II
Page 6 of 7
36 of 448

--- page 37 ---
If yes, what is the estimated indirect cost rate? ______
J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J
01
$0
$10,000
$0
$10,000
02
$0
$10,000
$0
$10,000
1
$78,000
$10,000
$0
$88,000
2
$195,000
$13,000
$0
$208,000
3
$29,500
$3,000
$0
$32,500
4
$8,000
$1,500
$0
$9,500
5
$45,500
$2,000
$0
$47,500
6
$4,500
$500
$0
$5,000
$360,500
$50,000
$0
$410,500
California Department of Transportation
Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program
COST AND SCHEDULE
Grant Category
Climate Adaptation Planning
Climate Adaptation Planning for Sea Level Rise
Estimated 
Local
In-Kind Match*
Estimated Total 
Project Cost*
Task Title
FY 2024/25
FY 2024-25
Local Match Calculator (posted on-line)
Use the Local Match Calculator to ensure that grant and local match amounts are correct:
Reimbursements/ 
Invoicing
Disclaimers 
Agency commits to the Cost and Schedule below. Any changes will need to be approved by Caltrans prior to initiating any Cost and Schedule change or amendment.    
Use only whole dollars in the financial information fields. No rounding up or down and no cents. 
Grant Fiscal Year 
City of San Mateo
Project Title
Organization 
(Legal name)
Does your agency plan to use the Tapered Match approach for invoicing purposes?   
Draft and Final Plan
Board Review/Approval 
Totals
Does your agency plan to request reimburesement for indirect costs?    
Technical Advisory Committee Meetings
Project Administration 
(no more than 5% of total grant funds)
Consultant Procurement
Existing Conditions
Analysis
Public Outreach
FY 2025/26
FY 2026/27
Task 
#
Grant Amount*
Estimated  
Local Cash 
Match*
Yes
No
Yes
No
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment II
Page 7 of 7
37 of 448

--- page 38 ---
Fiscal Year 2024-25 
GRANT APPLICATION GUIDE 
Sustainable Communities, Climate Adaptation, 
and Strategic Partnerships 
 
 
 
California Department of Transportation 
Division of Transportation Planning 
Sustainable Transportation Planning 
Grant Program  
Grant Application Deadline 
January 18, 2024 
Submit Applications via Smartsheet Form 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 1 of 115
38 of 448

--- page 39 ---
ADA Notice: For individuals with sensory disabilities, this document is available in alternate formats.  For 
information call (916) 654-6410 or TDD (916) 654-3880 or write Records and Forms Management, 1120 N Street, 
MS-89, Sacramento, CA 95814. 
Updated September 2023 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 2 of 115
39 of 448

--- page 40 ---
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
TABLE OF CONTENTS ........................................................................................................... i-ii 
1.
GRANT PROGRAM OVERVIEW ....................................................................................... 1 
Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Summary Chart ................................................. 2 
Grant Program Objectives and Considerations ..................................................................... 5 
2.
SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES COMPETITIVE AND TECHNICAL ..................................... 9 
Purpose and Specific Objectives ............................................................................................. 9 
Example Project Types ............................................................................................................. 10 
Eligible and Ineligible Activities and Expenses ...................................................................... 13 
Tips for Successful Sustainable Communities Grant Applications ...................................... 14 
3.
SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES FORMULA ...................................................................... 19 
Purpose and Specific Objectives ........................................................................................... 19 
Guidance and Approval Process ........................................................................................... 20 
Example Project Types ............................................................................................................. 20 
Eligible and Ineligible Activities and Expenses ...................................................................... 21 
Formula Grant Allocation Estimates ....................................................................................... 21 
4.
CLIMATE ADAPTATION PLANNING .............................................................................. 22 
Purpose and Specific Objectives ........................................................................................... 22 
Example Project Types ............................................................................................................. 24 
Eligible and Ineligible Activities and Expenses. ..................................................................... 25 
Tips for a Successful Climate Adaptation Planning Grant Application ............................. 26 
5.
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS............................................................................................ 29 
Purpose and Specific Objectives ........................................................................................... 29 
Federal Planning Factors ......................................................................................................... 29 
Example Project Types ............................................................................................................. 30 
Eligible and Ineligible Activities and Expenses ...................................................................... 31 
Tips for Successful Strategic Partnerships Grant Applications ............................................. 32 
6.
GRANT PROJECT ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS .................................................... 34 
Coordination with Caltrans ..................................................................................................... 34 
Third Party Contracts ................................................................................................................ 34 
Quarterly Reporting .................................................................................................................. 35 
Integrated Climate Adaptation and Resiliency Program (ICARP) Case Studies ............. 35 
Invoicing and Financial Requirements................................................................................... 36 
Non-Discrimination Requirements .......................................................................................... 40 
Final Product ............................................................................................................................. 41 
Project Close-Out Survey ......................................................................................................... 41 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 3 of 115
40 of 448

--- page 41 ---
California Public Records Act ................................................................................................. 42 
7.
APPLICATION SUBMITTAL PROCESS ............................................................................. 43 
Applicant Eligibility ................................................................................................................... 43 
Early Coordination and Technical Assistance for Primary Applicants ............................... 43 
7.3 
Application Submittal Instructions .......................................................................................... 44 
7.4 
Application Supplemental Documentation ......................................................................... 45 
8.
APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS .................................................................................. 46 
Two-Tiered Application Review Process ................................................................................ 46 
Application Evaluation/Scoring Process ................................................................................ 46 
Past Performance Award Considerations ............................................................................. 46 
9.
APPLICATION AWARD PROCESS ................................................................................. 48 
Award and Non-Award ........................................................................................................... 48 
Contracting with Caltrans ....................................................................................................... 48 
APPENDIX A.  Guidance, Tools, and Resources for Preparing a Grant Application .... 52 
Grant Program Considerations ............................................................................................................... 52 
Resources to Advance Grant Specific Objectives ............................................................................... 55 
APPENDIX B.  Sample Application Package ................................................................... 78 
APPENDIX C.  Caltrans/Regional Agency Boundaries Map ........................................ 107 
APPENDIX D.  Caltrans District Contact List .................................................................... 108 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 4 of 115
41 of 448

--- page 42 ---
1.
GRANT PROGRAM OVERVIEW
The Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program was created to support the California 
Department of Transportation’s (Caltrans) Mission:  Provide a safe and reliable transportation 
network that serves all people and respects the environment.   
The California Legislature passed, and Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. signed into law, Senate Bill 1 
(SB 1, Beall, Chapter 5, Statutes of 2017) – The Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017, a 
transportation funding bill that provides a reliable fund source to maintain and integrate the State’s 
multi-modal transportation system.  In addition to the $9.5 million in traditional State and federal 
grants, approximately $25 million in SB 1 funds for Sustainable Communities Grants is available for 
each grant cycle.   
The State-funded Sustainable Communities grants ($29.5 million) are intended to support and 
implement Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) Sustainable Communities Strategies/Alternative 
Planning Strategies (SCS/APS) (where applicable) and to ultimately achieve the State’s 
greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction target of 40 and 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2030 and 2050, 
respectively. 
The State-funded Climate Adaptation Planning grants ($31.9 million) enacted with Senate Bill 198 
(Committee on Budget and Fiscal Review, Chapter 71, Statutes of 2022), will support local and 
regional identification of transportation-related climate vulnerabilities through the development of 
climate adaptation plans, as well as project-level adaptation planning to identify adaptation 
projects and strategies for transportation infrastructure.  
The federal-funded Strategic Partnerships and Strategic Partnership Transit grants ($4.5 million) 
support Federal Planning Factors and address State highway/transit issues of regional, interregional, 
and/or statewide significance, in partnership with Caltrans.  
Eligible planning projects must have a transportation nexus per Article XIX Sections 2 and 3 of the 
California Constitution.  Therefore, successful planning projects are expected to directly benefit the 
multi-modal transportation system.  These grants will also improve public health, social equity, 
environmental justice, the environment, and provide other important community benefits.  The 
period of grant fund availability spans over three FYs and approximately 32 months for grant 
project activities after the grant agreement is executed and Caltrans issues a Notice to Proceed.  
Refer to Chapter 9.2 for details regarding the anticipated grant project start and expiration dates.   
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 5 of 115
42 of 448

--- page 43 ---
Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Summary Chart 
Grant Fund Source 
Purpose 
Who May Apply 
Local Match 
Sustainable Communities Competitive 
Budget 
RMRA and SHA 
State funds 
Approx. $17 million 
Approx. $3 million set-aside 
for technical projects  
Approx. $500,000 set-aside 
for Native American Tribal 
Governments 
Goal: 50% of grants should 
benefit Underserved 
Communities*** 
Grant Minimum 
$50,000 for Underserved 
Communities, including 
Native American Tribal 
Governments and rural 
communities; 
$100,000 for all others 
Grant Maximum 
$700,000 
Funds local and 
regional multimodal 
transportation and 
land use planning 
projects that further 
the region’s RTP 
SCS/APS (where 
applicable), 
contribute to the 
State’s GHG 
reduction targets, 
address the needs of 
underserved 
communities, and 
assist in achieving the 
Caltrans Mission and 
Grant Program 
Objectives (See 
Chapter 1.2). 
The following are eligible to apply as a 
primary applicant: 
• MPOs with sub-applicants 
• RTPAs 
• Transit Agencies;  
• Cities and Counties with compliant 
Housing Elements and completed 
Annual Progress Reports;  
• Native American Tribal Governments 
• Other Public Transportation Planning 
Entities 
The following are eligible to apply as a 
sub-applicant: 
• MPOs/RTPAs 
• Transit Agencies 
• Universities and Community Colleges 
• Native American Tribal Governments 
• Cities and Counties with compliant 
Housing Elements and completed 
Annual Progress Reports 
• Community-Based Organizations 
• Non-Profit Organizations (501.C.3) 
• Other Public Entities** 
11.47% 
minimum* (in 
cash or an in-
kind 
contribution).   
   
 
Sustainable Communities Formula 
Budget 
RMRA 
State funds 
$12.5 million 
Funds local and 
regional multimodal 
transportation and 
land use planning 
projects that further 
the region’s RTP 
SCS/APS (where 
applicable), 
contribute to the 
State’s GHG 
reduction targets, 
and assist in 
achieving the 
Caltrans Mission and 
Grant Program 
Objectives (See 
Chapter 1.2). 
The following are eligible to apply as a 
primary applicant: 
• MPOs 
11.47% 
minimum* (in 
cash or an in-
kind 
contribution).   
 
*   For local match requirements, refer to Chapter 6.5 of this Guide. 
** Public entities include state agencies, the Regents of the University of California, district, public authority, public agency, and 
any other political subdivision or public corporation in the State (Government Code Section 811.2).   
*** For purposes of this grant program, underserved communities are the most vulnerable places that are facing disproportionate 
rates of economic, environmental, and health burdens, and are defined according to the tools in Appendix A. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 6 of 115
43 of 448

--- page 44 ---
Grant Fund Source 
Purpose 
Who May Apply 
Local Match 
Climate Adaptation Planning 
Budget 
State funds 
Cycle 2: $31.9 million 
total 
Up to $3.9 million set-
aside for Native 
American Tribal 
Governments 
Goal: 50% of grants 
should benefit 
Underserved 
Communities*** 
Grant minimum 
$100,000 
Grant maximum 
$1.5 million (single 
organization); above 
$1.5-$3 million to be 
considered for 
partnership applications 
Funds local and 
regional 
identification of 
transportation-
related climate 
vulnerabilities 
through the 
development of 
climate adaptation 
plans, as well as 
project-level climate 
adaptation planning 
to identify 
adaptation projects 
and strategies for 
transportation 
infrastructure. 
The following are eligible to apply as a 
primary applicant: 
• MPOs  
• RTPAs 
• Transit Agencies;  
• Cities and Counties  
• Native American Tribal Governments 
• A joint exercise of powers authority 
established pursuant to Chapter 5 of 
Division 7 of Title 1, with the consent of 
a transportation planning agency or a 
county transportation commission for 
the jurisdiction in which the 
transportation project will be 
developed. 
• A local transportation authority 
created or designated pursuant to 
Division 12.5 or Division 19 of the Public 
Utilities Code. 
The following are eligible to apply as a 
sub-applicant: 
• MPOs/RTPAs 
• Transit Agencies 
• Universities and Community Colleges 
• Native American Tribal Governments 
• Cities and Counties 
• Community-Based Organizations 
• Non-Profit Organizations (501.C.3) 
• Other Public Entities** 
11.47% 
minimum* (in 
cash or an in-
kind 
contribution); 
not required for 
Native 
American Tribal 
Governments  
*   For local match requirements, refer to Chapter 6.5 of this Guide. 
** Public entities include state agencies, the Regents of the University of California, district, public authority, public agency, and 
any other political subdivision or public corporation in the State (Government Code Section 811.2).   
*** For purposes of this grant program, underserved communities are the most vulnerable places that are facing disproportionate 
rates of economic, environmental, and health burdens, and are defined according to the tools in Appendix A. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 7 of 115
44 of 448

--- page 45 ---
Strategic Partnerships 
Budget 
FHWA 
SPR, Part I 
Federal funds 
$1.5 million  
Grant Minimum 
$100,000  
Grant Maximum 
$500,000 
Funds transportation 
planning studies in 
partnership with 
Caltrans that 
address the regional, 
interregional, and 
statewide needs of 
the State highway 
system, and also 
assist in achieving 
the Caltrans Mission 
and Grant Program 
Objectives (See 
Chapter 1.2). 
The following are eligible to apply as a 
primary applicant: 
• MPOs  
• RTPAs 
The following are eligible to apply as a 
sub-applicant: 
• MPOs/RTPAs 
• Transit Agencies 
• Universities and Community Colleges 
• Native American Tribal Governments 
• Cities and Counties 
• Community-Based Organizations 
• Non-Profit Organizations (501.C.3) 
• Other Public Entities** 
20% minimum* 
(in non-federal 
funds or an in-
kind 
contribution).   
Strategic Partnerships – Transit 
Budget 
FTA Section 5304 
Federal funds 
$3 million  
Grant Minimum 
$75,000 for rural RTPAs;  
$100,000 for MPOs  
Grant Maximum 
$500,000 
Funds multi-modal 
planning studies, 
with a focus on 
transit, in partnership 
with Caltrans, of 
regional, 
interregional and 
statewide 
significance, and 
also assist in 
achieving the 
Caltrans Mission and 
Grant Program 
Objectives (See 
Chapter 1.2) 
The following are eligible to apply as a 
primary applicant: 
• 
MPOs  
• 
RTPAs 
The following are eligible to apply as a 
sub-applicant: 
• 
MPOs/RTPAs 
• 
Transit Agencies 
• 
Universities and Community Colleges 
• 
Native American Tribal Governments 
• 
Cities and Counties 
• 
Community-Based Organizations 
• 
Non-Profit Organizations (501.C.3) 
• 
Other Public Entities** 
11.47% 
minimum* (in 
non-federal 
funds or an in-
kind 
contribution).   
*   For local match requirements, refer to Chapter 6.5 of this Guide. 
**  Public entities include state agencies, the Regents of the University of California, district, public authority, public agency, and 
any other political subdivision or public corporation in the State (Government Code Section 811.2). 
Grant Fund Source 
Purpose 
Who May Apply 
Local Match 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 8 of 115
45 of 448

--- page 46 ---
Grant Program Objectives and Considerations 
Successful grant applications address and articulate how the project relates to the Caltrans 
Mission, Grant Program Objectives, and Grant Program Considerations.  The Grant Specific 
Objectives identified in Chapters 2.1, 3.1, 4.1 and 5.1 indicate the specific purpose of the 
Sustainable Communities, Climate Adaptation, and Strategic Partnership transportation planning 
grants, respectively, and must also be considered when preparing an application.  
Grant Program Objectives 
The following Grant Program Objectives are focused on achieving the Caltrans Mission and are 
intended to inform application development, including: 
Objective 
Description 
Sustainability 
Promote reliable and efficient mobility for people, goods, and services, while 
meeting the State’s GHG emission reduction goals, preserving the State’s natural 
and working lands, and preserving the unique character and livability of California’s 
communities. 
Preservation 
Preserve the transportation system through protecting and/or enhancing the 
environment, promoting energy conservation, improving the quality of life, and/or 
promoting consistency between transportation improvements and State and local 
planning growth and economic development patterns. 
Accessibility 
Increase the accessibility of the system and mobility of people, inclusive of older 
adults, those with disabilities, and freight. 
Safety 
Prioritize the elimination of fatal and serious injury crashes and enhance safe use of 
our roadways through the Safe System approach to realize a vision of zero road 
fatalities and serious injuries by 2050.  
Innovation 
Promote the use of technology and innovative designs to improve the performance 
and social equity of our transportation system and provide sustainable transportation 
options. 
Economy 
Support the economic vitality of the area (i.e., enables global competitiveness, 
enables increased productivity, improves efficiency, increases economic equity by 
enabling robust economic opportunities for individuals with barriers to employment 
and for Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE), etc.). 
Health 
Decrease exposure to local pollution sources, reduce serious injuries and fatalities on 
the transportation system, and promote physical activity across the lifespan, inclusive 
of those with disabilities, especially through transportation means. 
Social Equity 
Promote transportation solutions that focus on and prioritize the needs of 
underserved communities most affected by poverty, air pollution and climate 
change, and promote solutions that integrate community values with transportation 
safety and performance while encouraging meaningful public involvement in the 
transportation decision making process.  
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 9 of 115
46 of 448

--- page 47 ---
Grant Program Considerations 
The Grant Program supports related State and federal mandated initiatives.  The Plans and 
Programs listed below should be considered in grant application development.  Definitions and 
links to these resources can be found in Appendix A.  
Caltrans Strategic Plan  
The Strategic Plan is a declaration of the Caltrans vision and mission, core 
values, strategic imperatives, and six goals to deliver a world-class 
transportation system for one of the nation’s most populous, innovative, and 
diverse states:  
 Safety first  
 Cultivate excellence 
 Enhance and connect the multimodal transportation network 
 Strengthen stewardship and drive efficiency 
 Lead climate action  
 Advance equity and livability in all communities   
This plan guides and informs the development of the Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant 
Program.  Competitive applications will articulate how they will assist in achieving the Caltrans 
vision and mission, the six strategic goals above.   
California Transportation Plan 2050  
The California Transportation Plan (CTP) 2050 is a long-range transportation plan, updated every 
five years pursuant to state and Federal law, and is statutorily required to be fiscally unconstrained:   
 Defines a vision for the future transportation system, establishes 
new statewide priorities, and guides Caltrans and partner 
agencies in implementing its recommendations  
 Identifies strategies and policies that are required to make 
transparent and transformational transportation decisions 
 Recognizes the unique transportation needs and interests of  
urban, suburban, rural, and Tribal communities 
 Guides transportation decision makers at all levels of 
government, while emphasizing the importance of shared 
responsibility in meeting our transportation needs 
The CTP does not contain projects, but policies and strategies required to close the gap between 
what the regional transportation plans (RTP) aim to achieve and how much more is required to 
meet 2050 goals.  Competitive applications will discuss how proposed projects will assist in 
achieving the CTP 2050 vision, goals, recommendations, and the modal plans that support it. 
Modal Plans that Support the California Transportation Plan 
The CTP is the umbrella plan that informs and pulls together the State’s long-range modal plans 
listed below, to envision the future system: 
 Interregional Transportation Strategic Plan 
 California Freight Mobility Plan 
 California State Rail Plan 
 California State Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan 
 Statewide Transit Strategic Plan 
 California Aviation System Plan 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 10 of 115
47 of 448

--- page 48 ---
Title VI and Environmental Justice 
Title VI of the U.S. Civil Rights Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national 
origin in programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance.  A similar prohibition applies to 
recipients of state funds under California Government Code section 11135, which prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin, as well as ethnic group identification, 
religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, genetic information, or disability.   
Caltrans integrates Title VI as well as environmental justice in all activities.  In the past, low-income 
and minority communities disproportionately bore many of the negative impacts of transportation 
projects, which they continue to feel the consequences from today.  It is the goal of environmental 
justice to ensure that when transportation decisions are made, low-income and minority 
communities have a full opportunity to participate in the decision-making process, and they 
receive an equitable distribution of benefits and not a disproportionate share of burdens, which 
contribute to poor health outcomes.   
Climate Action Plan for Transportation Infrastructure 
The Climate Action Plan for Transportation Infrastructure (CAPTI) details 
how the state recommends shifting and investing billions of discretionary 
transportation dollars annually to aggressively combat and adapt to 
climate change while supporting public health, safety and equity. CAPTI 
builds on executive orders signed by Governor Gavin Newsom in 2019 and 
2020 targeted at reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 
transportation, which account for more than 40 percent of all emissions, to 
reach the state's ambitious climate goals.  Competitive grant applications 
will discuss how proposed projects will assist in implementing the CAPTI 
Investment Framework, Guiding Principles, and align with the 
Implementation Strategies and Key Actions. 
California Climate Adaptation Strategy  
The California Climate Adaptation Strategy, mandated by Assembly Bill 1482 (Gordon, 2015), links 
the state’s existing and planned climate adaptation efforts, showing how they fit together to 
achieve California’s six climate resilience priorities. The Strategy is organized around outcome-
based priorities, enabling a coordinated, integrated approach to building climate resilience. The 
Strategy shows how the state’s efforts fit together to deliver on six priorities for climate resilience 
action in California: Strengthen Protections for Climate Vulnerable Communities; Bolster Public 
Health and Safety to Protect Against Increasing Climate Risks; Make Decisions Based on the Best 
Available Climate Science; Build a Climate Resilient Economy; Accelerate Nature-Based Climate 
Solutions and Strengthen Climate Resilience of Natural Systems; Partner and Collaborate to 
Leverage Resources. Competitive grant applications will discuss how proposed projects consider 
climate resilience and align with the California Climate Adaptation Strategy. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 11 of 115
48 of 448

--- page 49 ---
Master Plan for Aging 
The Master Plan for Aging is a blueprint for aging across the lifespan, not 
simply a plan for today’s older adults.  California’s over-60 population is 
projected to diversify and grown faster than any other age group.  In 
response, the Master Plan calls on all California communities to build a 
California for All Ages: for older Californians currently living through the 
many different stages of the second half of life; for younger generations 
who can expect to live longer lives than their elders; for communities of all 
ages – family, friends, neighbors, coworkers, and caregivers – surrounding 
older adults.  Competitive grant applications will discuss specific 
connections and help achieve the Master Plan’s five goals and twenty-
three strategies to build a California for All Ages by 2030.    
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 12 of 115
49 of 448

--- page 50 ---
2. SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES COMPETITIVE AND 
TECHNICAL 
Approximately $12 million in State Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Account (RMRA) funds 
and $5 million in State Highway Account (SHA) funds, or a combined total of $17 million will be 
distributed through a competitive program to Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs) with a 
sub-applicant(s), Regional Transportation Planning Agencies (RTPAs), cities and counties, transit 
agencies, and Native American Tribal Governments.  MPOs must have a sub-applicant in order to 
be eligible and apply to the Sustainable Communities Competitive and Technical grants.   
Approximately $3 million will be set-aside for a technical project sub-category.  In accordance with 
the recent release of the guidance documents for the implementation of Senate Bill 743 (SB 743, 
Chapter 386, Statutes of 2013), there is a current need for improved tools to measure VMT and 
induced travel and to develop and implement VMT mitigation programs.   
Approximately $500,000 will be set-aside for Native American Tribal Governments. 
Funding distribution for the competitive program will depend on the quality and number of 
applications. 
 
Purpose and Specific Objectives  
The purpose of the Sustainable Communities grants is to fund local and regional multimodal 
transportation and land use planning projects that further the region’s RTP SCS/APS (where 
applicable), contribute to the State’s GHG reduction targets, and assist in achieving the Caltrans 
Mission and Grant Program Objectives, which must be considered when preparing the grant 
application.  
A minimum threshold of 50 percent of Sustainable Communities Competitive and Technical Grants 
has been identified for projects that benefit underserved communities, which includes Native 
American Tribal Governments and rural communities (for transportation planning purposes, rural is 
defined as all areas of the State that are not included in urbanized areas of 50,000 in population or 
greater; refer to Appendix C. Caltrans/Regional Agency Boundaries Map, which indicates rural 
areas). For purposes of the grant program, acceptable underserved communities definitions are 
described in Appendix A and include:  
• 
Rural communities of 50,000 or less and outside of urbanized areas 
• 
Native American Tribal Governments 
• 
Regionally/locally defined underserved communities 
• 
At or below 80% Assembly Bill 1550 (Gomez, Statutes of 2016) 
• 
At or above 75% California Department of Education, Free or Reduced Priced Meals Data  
• 
At or above 75% CalEnviroScreen Version 4.0  
• 
At or below 25% California Healthy Places Index (HPI) 
Sustainable Communities Competitive and Technical applicants must demonstrate how the 
project fits every aspect of the following Specific Objectives, as appropriate for the applicant and 
project type: 
• 
Encourage local and regional multimodal transportation and land use planning that 
furthers the region’s RTP SCS/APS (where applicable). For applicants not in an MPO region, 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 13 of 115
50 of 448

--- page 51 ---
address how the project encourages local and regional multimodal transportation and 
land use planning that advances sustainability  
• 
Contribute to the State’s GHG reduction targets and other State goals, including but not 
limited to, the goals and best practices cited in the 2017 RTP Guidelines  
• 
Address the needs of underserved communities through robust public engagement 
• 
Assist in achieving the Caltrans Mission and Grant Program Objectives (See Chapter 1.2).   
Sustainable Communities Technical project types do not require extensive public engagement due 
to their technical nature, but they will explain and demonstrate: 
• 
How the public will be involved at later stages of the planning process  
• 
How they will collaborate with and involve appropriate stakeholders with technical 
expertise to review and validate quantification assumptions and methods  
• 
How stakeholders will be involved in the application and Scope of Work   
Technical project applications are scored under the same criteria as all other project types, but 
they are grouped with other technical projects, and they compete at the same level.  Refer to 
Chapter 2.2 for Example Technical Project Types.  Applicants should contact their Caltrans District 
listed in Appendix D to help decide which grant category is the best fit for their project.  
Below is a list of Appendix A. Guidance, Tools, and Resources to assist applicants in preparing a 
competitive grant application that is consistent with the Grant Program Objectives, Grant Program 
Considerations, and Specific Objectives.   
• 
Advance Transportation Related GHG Reduction Project Types/Strategies 
• 
Addressing the Needs of Underserved Communities 
• 
Public Health Resources 
• 
Active Community Engagement 
• 
Integrated Housing, Land Use and Transportation Planning  
• 
Promote the Region’s RTP SCS/APS (where applicable) and State Planning Priorities, and 
Climate Adaptation Goals 
• 
Climate-Ready Transportation 
 
Example Project Types  
The examples below are organized in the following grant project types:  Active Transportation; 
Corridor and Freight; Social Equity; Integrated Housing, Land Use, and Transportation; Multimodal; 
Safety; Technical; and Transit. 
Active Transportation 
• 
Active transportation plans, including bicycle, pedestrian, and trail master plans  
• 
Plans for bike parking facilities 
• 
Rural planning studies or plans that provide rural counties the ability to develop active 
transportation plans with a rural context-sensitive focus and allow for rural regions to 
contribute to the State’s GHG reduction targets 
• 
Studies or plans that include a temporary built environment demonstration, e.g., tactical 
urbanism 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 14 of 115
51 of 448

--- page 52 ---
Corridor and Freight 
• 
Comprehensive Multimodal Corridor Plans 
• 
Corridor enhancement studies  
• 
Studies or plans related to zero emissions vehicle goods movement 
• 
Freight/goods movement plans and studies  
• 
Local or regional corridor plans 
• 
Studies and plans that can help to quantify and highlight the value and importance of the 
rural State transportation system which connects large urban centers to rural open space, 
State and federal lands, and recreation and agriculture hubs. 
• 
Studies and plans to mitigate for impacts to the rural transportation system due to increased 
interregional tourism and visitor traffic 
• 
Modeling improvements that address SB 743 implementation and induced travel (see 
Sustainable Communities – Technical grant-specific objectives in Chapter 2.1) 
• 
Complete Streets plans that consider last-mile freight 
• 
Curbside freight management plans 
• 
Sustainable freight plans 
• 
Agriculture goods movement plans 
• 
Freight/supply chain resiliency studies 
Social Equity 
• 
Community Needs Assessments  
• 
Health and transportation studies, including health equity transportation studies and other 
plans that incorporate health into transportation planning 
• 
Studies to improve access to social services and other community destinations for 
underserved communities 
• 
Studies, plans or planning methods that address environmental justice issues in a 
transportation related context 
• 
Congestion pricing studies including plans that enhance social equity and avoid inequitable 
cost burdens 
• 
Planning to remove or reduce barriers created by transportation infrastructure such as 
highways, overpasses and underpasses, that create disconnected communities 
• 
Studies or plans to ensure that infill and transit-oriented development benefits existing 
residents and businesses, low-income and underserved communities, and minimizes 
displacement 
• 
Outreach to educate underserved communities on mode shifts to electric forms of 
transportation, as part of a plan or study as appropriate 
• 
Student internships for rural agencies and/or underserved communities 
Integrated Housing, Land Use, and Transportation 
• 
Studies, plans or planning methods that assist transportation agencies in creating sustainable 
communities and transit-oriented development 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 15 of 115
52 of 448

--- page 53 ---
• 
SCS/APS development  
• 
Studies that promote greater access between affordable housing and job centers  
• 
Station area planning 
• 
Integration of transportation and environmental planning 
• 
First Mile/Last Mile project development planning 
• 
An update to a general plan land use element or zoning code that increases development 
opportunities around key transportation corridors or nodes 
• 
Creation of a Transit-Oriented Development overlay zone or other special zoning district 
around key transportation corridors or nodes 
• 
Studies, plans, and policies that address land use conflicts with major transportation corridors 
such as major highways, ports, shipping and freight corridors, etc. that are near sensitive land 
uses such as homes, schools, parks, etc. or potentially impacted by climate change 
Multimodal 
• 
Complete Streets plans or multimodal transportation plans 
• 
Long range transportation plans for tribal governments 
• 
Studies, plans or planning methods that advance a community’s effort to reduce single 
occupancy vehicle trips and transportation related GHG through strategies including, but not 
limited to, advancing mode shift, demand management, travel cost, operational efficiency, 
accessibility, and coordination with future employment and residential land use  
• 
Context-sensitive streetscapes or town center plans 
• 
Studies that evaluate accessibility and connectivity of the multimodal transportation network 
• 
Shared mobility services planning studies 
• 
Community outreach plans for park-and-ride lots 
Safety 
• 
Bike and pedestrian plans with a safety enhancement focus, including Vision Zero plans 
• 
Community to school studies or safe routes to school plans 
• 
Traffic calming and safety enhancement plans 
Technical 
• 
Transportation modeling studies or planning activities that address SB 743 implementation and 
induced travel, active transportation, emerging technology, public health, VMT and other 
impacts 
• 
Planning for zero or near zero emission vehicles 
• 
Electric vehicle charging infrastructure network planning 
• 
Transit planning for zero emission bus fleets 
• 
Planning for autonomous vehicles  
• 
Road or parking pricing studies 
• 
Transportation Demand Management studies  
• 
Commute trip reduction studies and plans 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 16 of 115
53 of 448

--- page 54 ---
• 
Data collection/data sharing initiatives 
• 
Integration of transit, new emerging technologies, and shared mobility services 
• 
Educational outreach as part of a plan or study as appropriate, e.g., for mode shifts to 
electric forms of transportation 
Transit 
• 
Identification of policies, strategies, and programs to preserve transit facilities and optimize 
transit infrastructure 
• 
Transit planning studies related to accessible transit, paratransit, mobility management, etc.  
• 
Studies, plans, or outreach for school public transit, school pool ridesharing 
• 
Strategies to increase transit ridership 
• 
Studies or plans that evaluate commuter rail or multi-modal connectivity 
• 
Studies or plans that evaluate first and last mile transit connectivity 
 
Eligible and Ineligible Activities and Expenses 
Eligible Activities and Expenses 
Eligible activities must have a transportation nexus per the California Constitution, Article XIX 
Section 2 and 3.  Applicants need to consult with Caltrans district staff for more information on 
whether costs are eligible for funding.   
Some examples of eligible costs include: 
• 
Data gathering and analysis 
• 
Report writing and the development of associated graphics 
• 
Planning consultant procurement 
• 
Advertising for consultant procurement  
• 
Advertising for public workshops, e.g., flyers, paid media ads 
• 
Travel expenses (See Chapter 6.5 for details) 
• 
Up to 30 percent design or conceptual drawings 
• 
Equipment (as defined in 2 CFR Part 200.33)1 purchases must remain under $5,000 or 
depreciation will need to be taken in to account when the grant project is completed since 
equipment could have future uses. 2 CFR Part 200.4362 provides the criteria for depreciation.   
• 
Community surveys, meetings, public workshop room rental, charrettes, focus groups 
• 
Virtual outreach activities and on-line meetings 
1 Electronic Code of Federal Regulations, 2 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 200.33, 2020, 
https://www.ecfr.gov/on/2017-01-03/title-2/subtitle-A/chapter-II/part-200/subpart-A/subject-group-
ECFR2a6a0087862fd2c/section-200.33 
2  Govinfo, 2 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 200.436, 20, 
https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/CFR-2022-title2-vol1/CFR-2022-title2-vol1-sec200-436  
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 17 of 115
54 of 448

--- page 55 ---
• 
Bilingual services for interpreting and/or translation services for meetings 
• 
Community/stakeholder advisory groups 
• 
Light snacks and refreshments for public workshops (no full meals), subject to Caltrans 
approval 
• 
Project administration (up to 5 percent of the grant is allowed, i.e., quarterly reports, invoicing, 
and kick-off meeting with Caltrans) 
Ineligible Activities and Expenses 
Some activities, tasks, project components, etc. are not eligible under these grant programs.  If an 
application has any of the following elements, it will be disqualified.   
Ineligible activities and expenses include:  
• 
Environmental studies, plans, or documents normally required for project development under 
the National Environmental Policy Act or the California Environmental Quality Act  
• 
Engineering plans and design specification work  
• 
Project Initiation Documents 
• 
Program or project implementation 
• 
Repurposing unspent grant funds (not applicable to Sustainable Communities Formula) 
• 
Application development to pursue construction funds/project implementation 
• 
RTPs or updates to the RTP, excluding SCS/APS development 
• 
Construction projects, capital costs, such as the building of a facility, or maintenance  
• 
Office furniture purchases, or other capital expenditures 
• 
Decorations, e.g., for public workshop events 
• 
Acquisition of vehicles or shuttle programs  
• 
Organizational membership fees 
• 
Incentives for public participation, e.g., full meals, prizes, freebies, promotional/marketing 
items, stipends 
• 
Charges passed on to sub-recipient for oversight of awarded grant funds  
• 
Other items unrelated to the project 
 
Tips for Successful Sustainable Communities Grant Applications 
Criteria for Successful Sustainable Communities Grant Applications 
Some guidance is provided below however, it is not intended to be all inclusive. 
• 
Integrate Grant Program Considerations (See Chapter 1.2) 
• 
Advance transportation related GHG emission reduction project types/strategies (i.e., 
mode shift, demand management, travel cost, operational efficiency, accessibility, 
and coordination with future employment and residential land use, etc.) 
• 
Identify and address deficiencies in the multimodal transportation system, including 
the needs of environmental justice and underserved communities, including Native 
American Tribal Governments and rural communities 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 18 of 115
55 of 448

--- page 56 ---
• 
Encourage stakeholder collaboration 
• 
Involve active community engagement 
• 
Coordinate transportation, housing, and land use planning  
• 
Result in funded and programmed multimodal transportation system improvements 
General Tips 
• 
Some sections of the grant application may seem redundant when discussing 
underserved community engagement, overall public engagement, and stakeholder 
involvement.  Although the general public and underserved communities are 
stakeholders for any project, for application purposes, the strategy, and methods for 
engaging these groups will be different, as described below. 
o Overall public engagement will describe the general strategy to engage the 
public at large.  
o Underserved communities engagement will explain how the project will go above 
and beyond business as usual or what is statutorily required to address the specific 
needs of underserved communities and use unique methods to involve these 
groups in the decision-making process. Refer to Appendix A. Active Community 
Engagement, which includes case studies for examples of equitable community 
engagement. 
o Stakeholder engagement will explain how partner agencies, businesses, and/or 
non-profit community-based organizations will be involved throughout the project. 
• 
Consult with your district representative for technical assistance before the application 
deadline. 
• 
Use the Samples and Checklists provided for the Application, Scope of Work, and Cost 
and Schedule. 
• 
Include Caltrans as an active partner in the study. 
• 
Provide tailored letters of support and project area photographs to enhance the 
application.  If applicants/supporters do not have the time/resources to provide 
tailored letters of support, a petition signed by supporters in a simple table format that 
lists the supporters and specifically how supporters will benefit the proposed project will 
suffice. 
Project Description 
Concisely describe the project.  Explain “What parties are involved, the proposed major 
milestones, and why the project is necessary.” 
Project Justification 
• 
Clearly define and explain the transportation problem or deficiency that the project 
will attempt to address and how the project will address the problem.  Why is it critical 
to address the problem now?  Make the case for a critical need that the project will 
address and support it with verifiable data, if available. 
• 
Explain how the project affects underserved communities.  The tools in Appendix A are 
intended to help applicants define an underserved community in the project area. 
Please cite data sources, the tools used, and include a comparison to the statewide 
thresholds that are established in each tool. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 19 of 115
56 of 448

--- page 57 ---
• 
If the applicant is a Native American Tribal Government or a rural area (outside of the 
urbanized areas with 50,000 in population or greater) of the State, describe population 
characteristics such as demographics, location, and size. 
Grant Specific Objectives 
Demonstrate how the project fits every aspect of the Grant Specific Objective, as appropriate 
for the applicant and project type.  Some guidance is provided below; however, it is not 
intended to be all inclusive.  Applications should reference Appendix A for Resources to 
Advance Sustainable Communities Grant Specific 
Objectives. 
Successful applications should include: 
Planning for Housing, Housing Element 
Compliance, and Prohousing Designation 
o 
To avoid a deduction of 5 points, applicants must 
demonstrate how they integrate housing planning 
into their policies, programs, and project, or commit 
to coordinate housing and transportation in future 
policies and programs throughout the application 
(e.g., narrative and scope of work).  See Chapter 2.2 
for a list of example projects that coordinate housing, 
land use, and transportation. 
o 
To be eligible for a grant award, city and county 
primary/sub-grant applicants are required to submit: 
1. A housing element adopted by the local 
government to the Department of Housing and 
Community Development (HCD), and HCD 
must find the adopted housing element in 
substantial compliance with state housing 
element law pursuant to Government Code 
Section 65585.  
2. Annual Progress Reports (APRs) to HCD for at 
least the previous two years, 2021 and 2022.  
o 
City or county primary/sub-applicants will receive a high recommendation from HCD if they 
have a Prohousing Designation, which can be earned by adopting local policies that 
facilitate the planning, approval, and construction of housing. The HCD Prohousing 
Designation Program provides incentives to cities and counties in the form of additional points 
or other preference in the scoring of competitive housing, community development, and 
infrastructure programs. For HCD Prohousing Designation Program information and how to 
develop a competitive application, refer to Appendix A, Integrated Housing, Land Use, and 
Transportation Planning. 
Note: Charter cities are not exempt from this specific program requirement and must submit an 
Annual Progress Report for the calendar years mentioned above.   
 
 
 
IMPORTANT TIPS: 
 City and county 
primary/sub-grant applicants 
are required to submit: 
1. A housing element 
adopted by the local 
government to HCD.   
2. Annual Progress Reports 
to HCD for at least the 
previous two years, 2021 
and 2022. 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 20 of 115
57 of 448

--- page 58 ---
Community Engagement 
• 
Refer to Appendix A for Community Engagement Best Practices. 
• 
Evidence of additional public outreach measures that promote access to decision-making 
and program implementation for all segments of the community, including special needs 
populations, underserved communities, and a variety of socio-economic groups (e.g., 
households across the income and employment spectrum, ethnically and racially diverse 
households).  
• 
The application narrative should outline specific 
outreach strategies that will be utilized, considering 
the current COVID-19 environment.  
• 
Tailored letters of support with electronic signatures 
from community-based organizations or public 
advocacy groups to demonstrate their support or 
involvement in identifying the issues that the 
proposed project is attempting to address.    
• 
If applicants/supporters do not have the 
time/resources to provide tailored letters of support, 
a petition electronically signed by supporters in a 
simple table format that indicates specifically how 
supporters will benefit the proposed project will 
suffice. 
Integrated Housing, Land Use, and 
Transportation Planning 
• 
Application narrative and any relevant supporting or 
illustrative data should describe how the proposed 
project integrates and connects land use and 
transportation, including how transportation and 
land use agencies or jurisdictions are actively 
collaborating on the project in all project phases.   
• 
Competitive grant applications should demonstrate 
how the project furthers this coordinated and 
integrated approach to planning. For example:   
o 
Demonstrate how the project will support or align with the region’s Regional Early Action 
Planning (REAP)3 grant investments or other regional planning or implementation efforts. 
REAP 2.0 seeks to accelerate infill housing development, reduce Vehicle Miles Traveled 
(VMT), increase housing supply at all affordability levels, affirmatively further fair housing, 
and facilitate the implementation of adopted regional and local plans to achieve these 
goals. Eligible uses include projects that invest in infrastructure to expand active 
transportation and fund and implement parking and transportation demand 
management programs or ordinances. 
3 REAP Website: Programs: Active | California Department of Housing and Community 
Development  
HELPFUL TIPS: 
Tailored letters of support from 
local agencies that not only 
provide support for the project, 
but also confirms that the 
proposed project: 
 Helps to implement the 
RTP SCS/APS and/or State 
priorities 
 Involves a coordinated 
approach to integrating 
land use and 
transportation in all phases 
of project planning and 
implementation. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 21 of 115
58 of 448

--- page 59 ---
o 
Describe how the project aligns with state housing policies and goals by serving a 
community within ½ mile of a transit station or stop that has received a positive Prohousing 
Designation Program score, certified by HCD.   
o 
Explain how the project is located in an area that has earned a Prohousing Designation  
and positive scores for Prohousing Enhancement policies from HCD. Jurisdictions 
supporting integrated housing, land use, and transportation planning may have policies 
that include Prohousing Enhancement Factors, which represent a multi-faceted approach 
to planning objectives, are consistent with state priorities, go beyond state law, etc. 
Competitive applications may also identify a jurisdiction’s policies that promote housing 
development and reduce VMT.  For information about the HCD Prohousing Designation 
Program and how applicants can develop a competitive application with Prohousing 
Enhancement Factors or VMT reducing policies, refer to Appendix A, Integrated Housing, 
Land Use, and Transportation Planning. HCD will highly recommend awards for City and 
county primary/sub-applicants that earn this designation. 
 
Project Management 
• 
Scope of Work: Refer to the Scope of Work Checklist in Appendix B.   
• 
Cost and Schedule:  Refer to the Cost and Schedule Checklist in Appendix B.   
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 22 of 115
59 of 448

--- page 60 ---
3. SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES FORMULA 
$12.5 million will be distributed to the MPOs on a formula basis.  The formula funds for the MPOs will 
reflect the same formula used to distribute Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Metropolitan 
Planning PL funds.   
The FHWA PL formula has three components:  
1. A base allocation 
2. A two-part population component which distributes funds by the proportion of the total 
population of each MPO based on California Department of Finance estimates each 
January 
3. An Air Quality component based on the proportion of federal Congestion Mitigation Air 
Quality funds to total programmatic FHWA PL funds 
 
Purpose and Specific Objectives 
The purpose of the Sustainable 
Communities Formula is to 
fund local and regional 
multimodal transportation and 
land use planning projects that 
further the region’s RTP 
SCS/APS (where applicable), 
contribute to the State’s GHG 
reduction targets, and assist in 
achieving the Caltrans Mission 
and Grant Program Objectives 
(See Chapter 1.2). 
The specific objectives, 
eligibility requirements, and 
performance considerations for the Sustainable Communities Formula Grants awarded to MPOs 
are consistent with the Sustainable Communities Competitive Grants.  
The intent of the Sustainable Communities Formula Grants is to carry out the objectives of the 
region’s RTP SCS/APS (where applicable) and the RTP Guidelines Appendices K and L.  In addition, 
MPOs are strongly encouraged to administer Sustainable Communities Formula funding in a 
transparent manner and maintain non-profit eligibility, consistent with the legislative intent of SB 1 - 
The Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017. 
 
 
 
The intent of the Sustainable 
Communities Formula Grants is to 
carry out the objectives of the 
region’s RTP SCS/APS (where 
applicable) and the RTP Guidelines 
Appendices K and L. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 23 of 115
60 of 448

--- page 61 ---
Guidance and Approval Process 
Minimum Eligibility Criteria  
MPOs should meet the following minimum eligibility 
criteria to apply for Sustainable Communities Formula 
grants: 
• 
Of the Consolidated Planning Grant, FHWA PL 
carryover is at or below 100 percent of the 
annual FHWA PL allocation  
• 
Have an RTP SCS/APS that meets the SB 375 
GHG reduction targets  
• 
Meet civil rights and environmental justice 
obligations, as summarized in Section 4.2 of the 
RTP Guidelines 
If an MPO does not meet the minimum eligibility 
criteria listed above by April 30, 2024, their allocation 
will be redistributed to the remaining MPOs that are 
eligible and apply for the Sustainable Communities 
Formula Grants. 
Annual Draft Overall Work Program (OWP) Development and Approval Process  
Sustainable Communities Formula Grants are part of the annual draft Overall Work Program (OWP) 
development and approval process.  The draft OWP process includes meaningful consultation with 
Caltrans district staff and the Headquarters Office of Regional and Community Planning (ORCP).  
MPOs are responsible for including a draft Work Element(s) for Sustainable Communities Formula 
Grant funds in the draft FY 2024-24 OWP and sending a list of activities using the provided template 
to Caltrans, no later than March 1, 2024.  Draft OWPs are submitted to the district Regional Planning 
Liaison who will coordinate with ORCP.  The draft Work Element(s) should include an explanation of 
how the project supports the Sustainable Communities Grant Specific Objectives and provide the 
same level of detail included in the grant application Scope of Work and Cost and Schedule for 
the Sustainable Communities Competitive Grants.  The Work Element name and number must 
remain unchanged until the project(s) is completed.  If Work Elements do not provide enough 
detail, MPOs will need to submit the competitive grant application Scope of Work and Cost and 
Schedule.  More information and detailed requirements are outlined in the SB 1 Guidance for OWPs 
and Requests for Reimbursements, available upon request. 
 
Example Project Types  
MPOs have flexibility for how the Formula Grant allocation is administered.  For example, MPOs may 
use these funds for a regional competitive grant program, integrated land use and transportation 
planning activities related to developing their SCS/APS, carrying out the best practices cited in the 
RTP Guidelines, or a combination thereof.  If an MPO uses Formula Grant funds to administer a 
regional grant program, the MPO must submit their grant program criteria and list of eligible 
applicants and sub-applicants to the Caltrans district and ORCP.  This step is to ensure the MPO’s 
grant program aligns with the Caltrans Sustainable Communities Competitive Grants, including city 
and county housing element compliance.  MPOs will also submit a list of awarded grants to the 
Caltrans district and ORCP.  MPOs should coordinate the submittal of this information with the 
Caltrans district and ORCP to avoid delays for releasing the call-for-projects and grant awards.  For 
additional example project types, refer to Chapter 2.2.  
IMPORTANT NOTE: 
 If an MPO does not meet 
the minimum eligibility 
criteria, their allocation will 
be redistributed to the 
remaining MPOs that are 
eligible and apply for the 
Sustainable Communities 
Formula Grants. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 24 of 115
61 of 448

--- page 62 ---
Eligible and Ineligible Activities and Expenses 
Refer to Chapter 2.3 for eligible and ineligible activities and expenses.  
 
Formula Grant Allocation Estimates 
The following funding table estimates how formula funds may be distributed to each MPO, 
contingent upon meeting the minimum eligibility criteria:  
 
Sustainable Communities Formula Grants 
 
Metropolitan Planning Organization  
Total Formula Grant 
Allocation 
Tahoe Metropolitan Planning Organization 
$160,750 
Madera County Transportation Commission 
$164,209 
Kings County Association of Governments 
$162,943 
Shasta Regional Transportation Agency 
$163,172 
Butte County Association of Governments 
$180,569 
Merced County Association of Governments 
$197,424 
San Luis Obispo Council of Governments 
$195,962 
Tulare County Association of Governments 
$246,944 
Santa Barbara County Association of Governments 
$224,579 
Stanislaus Council of Governments 
$291,053 
San Joaquin Council of Governments 
$341,671 
Kern Council of Governments 
$374,899 
Association of Monterey Bay Area Governments 
$315,267 
Fresno Council of Governments 
$407,484 
Sacramento Area Council of Governments 
$774,991 
San Diego Association of Governments 
$1,021,553 
Metropolitan Transportation Commission 
$2,106,140 
Southern California Association of Governments 
$5,170,390 
Total 
$12,500,000 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 25 of 115
62 of 448

--- page 63 ---
4. CLIMATE ADAPTATION PLANNING 
Climate change adaptation aims to anticipate and prepare for climate change impacts to 
reduce the damage from climate change and extreme weather events.  Adaptation is distinct 
from, but complements, climate change mitigation, which aims to reduce GHG emissions. This 
funding is intended to advance adaptation planning on California’s transportation infrastructure, 
including but not limited to roads, railways, bikeways, trails, bridges, ports, and airports.  
The State-funded Climate Adaptation Planning grants ($31.9 million) will support tribal, local, and 
regional identification of transportation-related climate vulnerabilities through the development of 
climate adaptation plans, as well as project-level adaptation planning to identify adaptation 
projects and strategies for transportation infrastructure.  Applicants at all stages of adaptation 
planning efforts including those who have not yet started adaptation work are encouraged to 
apply.  
Climate adaptation planning projects are defined by: 
• 
Identification of transportation system vulnerabilities and climate-related risks to existing 
transportation infrastructure, including resilience improvement plans. 
• 
Identification of adaptation planning projects that address climate risk impacts to existing 
transportation infrastructure including sea level rise, storm surge, changes in temperature 
and precipitation. 
• 
Planning for specific climate projects that can be programmed in existing local or regional 
transportation plans. 
 
Purpose and Specific Objectives 
California’s climate leadership has made the ambitious commitment to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions and facilitate a transition to a carbon neutral economy.  However, as made clear by the 
impacts already affecting California and the recent IPCC report, impacts of climate change are 
occurring sooner than expected and they disproportionately affect the most vulnerable among us 
(See Appendix A. for IPCC report).  Many impacts, such as increased wildfires, droughts, landslides, 
rising sea levels, floods, severe storms, heat waves, and impacts to wildlife, are already occurring 
already and are expected to become more frequent and severe.  
Climate change is increasingly impacting the State’s transportation system.  Adaptation efforts will 
enhance the resiliency of the transportation system to better withstand climate impacts.  The 
overarching goal of this grant program is to support planning actions at local and regional levels 
that advance climate change adaptation efforts on the transportation system, especially efforts 
that serve the communities most vulnerable to climate change impacts.  Taking steps now to 
adapt to climate change will protect public health and safety, infrastructure, and the California 
economy into the future.   
Caltrans awarded three cycles of local adaptation planning grants allocated through the passage 
of SB 1.  This program operated from FY 2017-18 through FY 2019-20 and was able to fund 
innovative tribal, local, and regional adaptation planning grants across California.  Examples of the 
completed projects supported by the SB 1 Climate Adaptation Planning Grant Program can be 
found on the California Adaptation Clearinghouse’s case study4 page.  The current funding in this 
program aims to build upon the successful SB 1 program to further advance transportation 
adaptation planning.  
4 Adaptation Clearinghouse’s case study website: https://resilientca.org/challenges/     
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 26 of 115
63 of 448

--- page 64 ---
Equity, including regional representation, will be considered when awarding projects.  A minimum 
threshold of 50 percent of the funds has been identified for projects that benefit underserved 
communities, which includes  Tribal, local, regional, and rural communities (for transportation 
planning purposes, rural is defined as all areas of the State that are not included in urbanized areas 
of 50,000 in population or greater; refer to Appendix C. Caltrans/Regional Agency Boundaries 
Map, which indicates rural areas).  For purposes of the grant program, acceptable underserved 
communities definitions are described in Appendix A and include:  
• 
Rural communities of 50,000 or less and outside of urbanized areas 
• 
Native American Tribal Governments 
• 
Regionally/locally defined underserved communities 
• 
At or below 80% Assembly Bill 1550 (Gomez, Statutes of 2016) 
• 
At or above 75% California Department of Education, Free or Reduced Priced Meals Data 
• 
At or above 75% CalEnviroScreen Version 4.0 
• 
At or below 25% California Healthy Places Index (HPI) 
Furthermore, up to 10% of the funds ($3.9 remaining) will be set-aside for Native American Tribal 
Governments. 
Climate Adaptation Planning grant applicants must demonstrate how the project fits the Grant 
Specific Objectives listed below, as appropriate for the applicant and project type.  Additional 
resources (guidance, data sources, etc.) to assist in achieving these objectives can be found in 
Appendix A: 
Applicants are required to demonstrate how the proposed effort will accomplish one or more of 
the following: 
• 
Identify specific transportation infrastructure vulnerabilities5 to climate change impacts. 
• 
Identify adaptation strategies and specific actions to remedy identified climate-related 
vulnerabilities, including short-, medium-, and long-term strategies that will address the 
overall risk for the entire service life of the asset or capital project using the best available 
science and guidance. 
• 
Include economic analysis and/or cost-benefit analysis of identified adaptation strategy or 
strategies when applicable. 
 
Applicants must also demonstrate how the proposed effort will accomplish one or more the 
following: 
• 
Identify benefit(s) to underserved communities, including transit-dependent populations.  
• 
On-going collaboration and partnerships between sectors and jurisdictions, across levels of 
government at a regional scale. 
• 
Identify co-benefits of the adaptation work, such as benefits to public health, natural 
ecosystems, air quality, social equity, the economy, or reductions in greenhouse gas 
emissions. Projects prioritizing nature-based solutions through natural and green 
infrastructure planning and adaptation strategies will be prioritized.  
5 Transportation infrastructure includes, but is not limited to, roads, railways, bikeways, trails, bridges, ports, and 
airports. Vulnerable transportation infrastructure is transportation infrastructure that is susceptible to the 
impacts of climate change (e.g., a pedestrian-use trail that cuts through a forested area that is expected to 
see increased fire risk due to climate change). 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 27 of 115
64 of 448

--- page 65 ---
• 
Consistency with priorities and goals of the 2021 California State Adaptation Strategy, as 
well as any applicable local/regional resilience planning, and that the effort will identify 
ways to incorporate transportation-related climate adaptation needs into existing 
transportation plans.  
• 
Projects must include a multistakeholder process that provides an opportunity for 
meaningful community engagement from communities potentially impacted by any 
projects identified or developed as part of the planning grant. 
 
Competitive applicants will demonstrate one or more of the following: 
• 
Alignment with or augmentation of existing plans, including climate action 
plans/adaptation plans, hazard mitigation plans, safety elements of general plans, 
resilience improvement plans, and/or Certified Local Coastal Programs6, that will lead to 
the identification and development of capital projects that can be programmed as part of 
local or regional transportation plans. Projects should follow State Guidance on Adaptation 
Planning (see Appendix A) or be aligned with local plans. 
• 
Collaboration and partnerships with diverse external stakeholders such as businesses, non-
governmental agencies, community-based organizations, Federal, state, or local agencies, 
and community residents. 
• 
Consideration of the adaptation needs of environmental resources in proximity to the 
transportation system such as coastal resources including but not limited to tidal marsh or 
beaches, wildlife connectivity, wetlands, or fish passage needs. 
• 
Consideration of public access and Complete Streets’ needs. 
 
Example Project Types 
Caltrans aims to fund a variety of project types from a diverse pool of applicants to respond to 
these climate impacts.  Applicants who have adaptation planning efforts underway, as well as 
those who have not yet started adaptation planning, are encouraged to apply.  
 
The examples below are provided to illustrate the range of projects that may be appropriate for 
the grant program, as well as to provide ideas to potential applicants. The project types range 
from initial vulnerability assessment and broad planning efforts to project-level planning needs, for 
instance through local studies on natural hazards to inform a future project. Proposed projects are 
not constrained by the examples below. 
 
• 
Climate Vulnerability and Risk Assessments (identification of climate vulnerabilities and risks 
to transportation infrastructure) 
 
• 
Planning for extreme weather events, which could include: 
o 
Evacuation planning. 
o 
Identifying communities and individuals with inadequate access to transportation 
options (e.g., survey to determine number and location of transit dependent 
residents). 
o 
Planning for increased transportation options (e.g., multimodal) in evacuation 
corridors. 
o 
Planning for roadway warning systems for extreme weather events. 
6 More information about Certified Local Coastal Programs and whether a project is located in this 
area can be found on the Coastal Commission’s website and further verified by reaching out to 
Coastal Commission staff at the applicable Coastal Commission District office. 
https://coastal.ca.gov/lcps.html  
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 28 of 115
65 of 448

--- page 66 ---
o 
Planning and evaluating for decentralized energy storage needs for electric vehicle 
charging infrastructure to safeguard against loss of power and impacts to electric 
vehicles due to climate-related grid disruptions. 
 
• 
Transportation Infrastructure Adaptation and Resilience Improvement Plans, and/or 
integration of transportation adaptation planning into existing plans such as a climate 
mitigation or adaptation plan, Certified Local Coastal Program, Hazard Mitigation Plan, 
General Plan (including compliance with Senate Bill 379 requirements (Jackson, Chapter 
608, Statutes of 2015)), or other related planning efforts, including project-level planning for 
capital projects.  For instance, this can include: 
o 
Prioritization of adaptation needs and strategies in a given region/location. 
o 
Project-level planning that can be programmed through an existing local or 
regional transportation plan, such as evaluating infrastructure resilience to climate 
impacts, especially projects that integrate natural infrastructure or provide multiple 
benefits.  Specific examples could include: adaptation strategies related to 
realigning/relocating transportation infrastructure impacted by sea level rise; 
providing transit shelters with shade, water, or other means of cooling in locations 
expected to see temperature increases; preparing for increased landslide risk; etc.   
 
• 
Natural and green infrastructure planning (e.g., wetlands restoration along transportation 
corridors to protect transportation infrastructure from flooding and storm impacts, 
identifying and removing barriers to habitat and wildlife connectivity.) 
 
• 
Technical feasibility studies required to advance project-level adaptation planning, for 
instance coastal hazards analysis at a potential adaptation project location, or a 
precipitation study that incorporates future climate risk. 
 
• 
Technical assistance projects for under-resourced and climate vulnerable communities to 
perform climate adaptation planning. 
 
• 
Development of educational resources, trainings and workshops for local jurisdictions and 
transportation service providers on any of the above listed adaptation planning activities. 
 
Eligible and Ineligible Activities and Expenses. 
Eligible activities must have a transportation nexus per the California Constitution, Article XIX 
Section 2 and 3.  Applicants need to consult with Caltrans district staff for more information on 
whether costs are eligible for funding.   
Eligible Activities and Expenses  
Please consult with Caltrans district staff for clarification regarding specific eligible activities or 
expenses. Example eligible costs include:  
• 
Staff time 
• 
Consultant time  
• 
Up to 30 percent design or conceptual drawings 
• 
Data and geospatial analysis  
• 
Report writing and the development of associated graphics 
• 
Community surveys, meetings, charrettes, and focus groups 
• 
Bilingual services for interpreting and/or translation services for meetings  
• 
Community/stakeholder advisory groups 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 29 of 115
66 of 448

--- page 67 ---
• 
Project-specific staffing 
• 
Web application development and dashboard  
• 
Light snacks and refreshments for public workshops (no full meals), subject to Caltrans 
approval 
Ineligible Activities and Expenses 
Some activities, tasks, project components, etc. are not eligible under this grant program. If an 
application has any of the following elements, it will be disqualified. Ineligible activities and 
expenses include:  
 
• 
Projects without a transportation nexus  
• 
Project Initiation Documents  
• 
Environmental studies, plans, or documents normally required for project development 
under the National Environmental Policy Act or the California Environmental Quality Act  
• 
Engineering plans and design specification work  
• 
Regional Transportation Plans (RTP) or updates to the RTP  
• 
Construction projects or capital costs, such as the building of a facility, or maintenance  
• 
Purchasing of office furniture or other capital expenditures  
• 
Decorations (e.g., for public workshop events)  
• 
Acquisition of vehicles or shuttle programs  
• 
Organizational membership fees  
• 
Incentives for public participation, e.g., “Stuff We All Get” (SWAG), full meals, prizes, 
freebies, promotional/marketing items, stipends 
• 
Charges passed on to sub-recipient for oversight of awarded grant funds  
• 
Other items unrelated to the project  
 
Tips for a Successful Climate Adaptation Planning Grant 
Application 
Strong applications will integrate all aspects of the grant program’s purpose and specific 
objectives listed above. Additionally, strong applications will support statewide goals and 
objectives currently being implemented by the State of California, including the Grant Program 
Considerations (see Chapter 1.2).  
Some guidance is provided below; however, it is not intended to be all inclusive. 
Criteria for Successful Climate Adaptation Planning Grant Applications 
• 
Clearly demonstrate how the project promotes climate change adaptation planning on 
the California transportation system and how the project aligns with the grant specific 
objectives. 
• 
Partner with Caltrans to identify and address statewide, interregional, or regional 
transportation adaptation needs in the State highway system (or multimodal 
transportation system for transit-focused and/or active transportation projects. 
• 
Strengthen government-to-government relationships. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 30 of 115
67 of 448

--- page 68 ---
• 
Demonstrate that the proposed planning effort will lead to adaptation project funding 
proposals and/or programmed system improvements.  This can include advancing 
planning to lead to project development through development of a cost estimate, 
pursuing a technical feasibility study for adaptation options, and/or developing a 
conceptual design.  
• 
Identify and address deficiencies in the multimodal transportation system, including the 
needs of environmental justice and underserved communities, including Native 
American Tribal Governments and rural communities. 
• 
Encourage stakeholder collaboration and include active community engagement. 
• 
Promote the region’s RTP SCS (where applicable), State planning priorities (Government 
Code Section 65041.1), and climate adaptation goals (State Adaptation Strategy). 
• 
Demonstrate that the proposed planning effort will use the best available science for 
climate change projections. 
• 
For proposed planning efforts in the California Coastal Zone, demonstrate that all 
analyses and final deliverables will be consistent with the applicable Certified Local 
Coastal Program, California Coastal Act (for projects in the Coastal Commission’s 
retained jurisdiction), and Coastal Commission guidance documents on sea level rise, 
environmental justice, and Tribal community engagement. 
General Tips 
• 
Refer to existing State guidance on climate adaptation planning to ensure alignment 
with State direction, State data, and guidance, including the California Adaptation 
Planning Guide, and resources that can be found on the State Adaptation 
Clearinghouse.  
• 
Consult with your district representative for technical assistance before the application 
deadline. 
• 
Use the Samples and Checklists provided for the Application, Scope of Work, and Cost 
and Schedule. 
• 
Provide tailored letters of support and photos of project area as relevant to enhance the 
application. Project supporters should describe why they support the project and how 
they would benefit from the project. If applicants/supporters do not have the 
time/resources to provide tailored letters of support, a petition signed by supporters in a 
simple table format that lists the supporters and specifically how supporters will benefit 
the proposed project will suffice. 
• 
Include Caltrans as an active partner in the study, as applicable. 
• 
Some sections of the grant application may seem redundant when discussing 
underserved community engagement, overall public engagement, and stakeholder 
involvement.  Although the general public and underserved communities are 
stakeholders for any project, for application purposes, the strategy and methods for 
engaging these groups will be different, as described below. 
o Overall public engagement will describe the general strategy to engage the 
public at large;  
o Underserved communities' engagement will explain how the project will go above 
and beyond business as usual to address the specific needs of underserved 
communities and use unique methods to involve these groups in the decision-
making process; and 
o Stakeholder engagement will explain how partner agencies, businesses, and/or 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 31 of 115
68 of 448

--- page 69 ---
non-profit community-based organizations will be involved throughout the project. 
Project Management 
• 
Scope of Work: Refer to the Scope of Work Checklist in Appendix B.   
• 
Cost and Schedule:  Refer to the Cost and Schedule Checklist in Appendix B.   
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 32 of 115
69 of 448

--- page 70 ---
5. STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS 
$1.5 million in FHWA State Planning and Research (SPR) Part 1 funds and $3 million in Federal Transit 
Administration (FTA) Section 5304 funds, or a combined total of $4.5 million, will be distributed 
through a competitive program to MPOs and RTPAs.  Funding distribution for the competitive 
program will depend on the quality and number of applications. 
 
Purpose and Specific Objectives 
Strategic Partnerships are intended to fund planning projects that partner with Caltrans to address 
needs on or connecting to the State Highway System (SHS), while the transit sub-category will 
address multimodal planning projects that focus on transit. 
The objectives of the Strategic Partnerships and Strategic Partnerships - Transit grants are to: 
• 
Strengthen government-to-government partnerships 
• 
Accomplish the Federal Planning Factors 
• 
Achieve the Caltrans Mission and the Grant Program Objectives 
 
Federal Planning Factors 
1. Support the economic vitality of the metropolitan area, especially by enabling global 
competitiveness, productivity, and efficiency 
2. Increase the safety of the transportation system for motorized and non-motorized users 
3. Increase the security of the transportation system for motorized and non-motorized users 
4. Increase accessibility and mobility of people and freight 
5. Protect and enhance the environment, promote energy conservation, improve the quality of 
life, and promote consistency between transportation improvements and State and local 
planned growth and economic development patterns 
6. Enhance the integration and connectivity of the transportation system, across and between 
modes, for people and freight 
7. Promote efficient system management and operation 
8. Emphasize the preservation of the existing transportation system 
9. Improve the resiliency and reliability of the transportation system and reduce or mitigate 
stormwater impacts of surface transportation 
10. Enhance travel and tourism 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 33 of 115
70 of 448

--- page 71 ---
Example Project Types 
Example Project Types - Strategic Partnerships   
•
Studies that identify interregional, inter-county, and/or statewide mobility and access needs
•
Comprehensive Multimodal Corridor Plans
•
Corridor performance/preservation studies
•
Studies that evaluate transportation issues involving ground access to international borders,
seaports, airports, intermodal facilities, freight hubs, and recreational sites
•
Development of planning activities intended to result in investment in sustainable
transportation projects
•
Enhanced tools to capture GHG benefits of Operations and System Management projects
•
Integration of transportation and economic development
•
Planning for sustainable freight
•
Planning for transportation safety
•
Studies for relinquishment of state routes
•
Statewide or interregional research or modeling tools
•
Transportation demand management plans
•
System investment prioritization plans
•
Assessment and integration of new technology
•
Complete street plans that consider last-mile freight
•
Curbside freight management plans
•
Agriculture goods movement plans
•
Freight/supply chain resiliency studies
Example Project Types - Strategic Partnerships Transit  
•
Identification of policies and procedures to integrate transit into the transportation system
and planning process
•
Statewide transit planning surveys and research
•
Identification of policies, strategies, and programs to preserve transit facilities and optimize
transit infrastructure
•
Projects that evaluate accessibility and connectivity of the multi-modal transportation
network
•
Transit technical planning studies to optimize system performance
•
Studies or plans that evaluate commuter rail or multi-modal connectivity
•
Studies or plans that evaluate first and last mile transit connectivity
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 34 of 115
71 of 448

--- page 72 ---
Eligible and Ineligible Activities and Expenses 
Eligible Activities and Expenses 
Eligible activities must have a transportation nexus per the California Constitution, Article XIX 
Section 2 and 3.  Please consult with Caltrans district staff for more information on whether costs are 
eligible for funding. 
Some examples of eligible costs include: 
• 
Data gathering and analysis 
• 
Planning consultant procurement 
• 
Advertising for consultant procurement  
• 
Advertising for public workshops, e.g., flyers, paid media ads 
• 
Virtual outreach activities and on-line meetings 
• 
Travel expenses (See Chapter 6.5 for details) 
• 
Up to 30 percent conceptual drawings and design  
• 
Equipment (as defined in 2 CFR Part 200.33)7 purchases must remain under $5,000 or 
depreciation will need to be taken in to account when the grant project is completed since 
equipment could have future uses. 2 CFR Part 200.4368 provides the criteria for depreciation, 
at the Govinfo website. 
• 
Community surveys, meetings, public workshop room rental, charrettes, focus groups 
• 
Bilingual services for interpreting and/or translation services for meetings 
• 
Community/stakeholder advisory groups 
• 
Light snacks and refreshments for public workshops (no full meals), subject to Caltrans and 
federal approval 
• 
Project administration (up to 5 percent of the grant is allowed, i.e., quarterly reports, invoicing, 
and kick-off meeting with Caltrans) 
Ineligible Activities and Expenses 
Some activities, tasks, project components, etc. are not eligible under these grant programs.  If an 
application has any of the following elements, it will be disqualified.  Ineligible activities and 
expenses include:  
• 
Environmental studies, plans, or documents normally required for project development under 
the National Environmental Policy Act or the California Environmental Quality Act  
• 
Engineering plans and design specification work  
• 
Project Initiation Documents 
7 Electronic Code of Federal Regulations, 2 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 200.33, 2020,  
https://www.ecfr.gov/on/2017-01-03/title-2/subtitle-A/chapter-II/part-200/subpart-A/subject-group-
ECFR2a6a0087862fd2c/section-200.33  
8 Govinfo, 2 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 200.436, 2022, 
https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/CFR-2022-title2-vol1/CFR-2022-title2-vol1-sec200-436  
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 35 of 115
72 of 448

--- page 73 ---
• 
Program or project implementation  
• 
Repurposing unspent grant funds 
• 
Consultant mark-ups 
• 
Application development to pursue construction funds/project implementation 
• 
RTPs or updates to the RTP 
• 
Economic development plans or studies 
• 
Land use plans or studies 
• 
General Plans or updates to elements 
• 
Construction projects, capital costs, such as the building of a facility, or maintenance  
• 
Office furniture purchases, or other capital expenditures 
• 
Decorations, e.g., for public workshop events 
• 
Acquisition of vehicles or shuttle programs  
• 
Organizational membership fees 
• 
Incentives for public participation, e.g., full meals, prizes, freebies, promotional/marketing 
items, stipends 
• 
Charges passed on to sub-recipient for oversight of awarded grant funds  
• 
Other items unrelated to the project 
 
Tips for Successful Strategic Partnerships Grant Applications 
Criteria for Successful Strategic Partnerships Grant Applications 
• 
Partner with Caltrans to identify and address statewide, interregional, or regional 
transportation deficiencies in the State highway system (or multimodal transportation 
system for transit-focused projects) 
• 
Strengthen government-to-government relationships, and 
• 
Result in programmed system improvements 
General Tips 
• 
Refer to Appendix A. Multimodal System Planning guidance documents in the development 
of proposed corridor plans/studies, freight plans/studies, and other multimodal system 
planning documents.   
• 
Consult with your district representative for technical assistance before the application 
deadline. 
• 
Use the Samples and Checklists provided for the Application, Scope of Work, and Cost 
and Schedule. 
• 
Include Caltrans as an active partner in the study. 
• 
Provide tailored letters of support and project area photographs to enhance the 
application.  Project supporters should describe why they support the project and how 
they would benefit from the project. 
• 
If applicants/supporters do not have the time/resources to provide tailored letters of 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 36 of 115
73 of 448

--- page 74 ---
support, a petition signed by supporters in a simple table format that lists the supporters 
and specifically how supporters will benefit the proposed project will suffice. 
Project Summary 
• 
Concisely describe the project in less than 150 words.  Explain “What parties are involved, 
the proposed major milestones, and why the project is necessary.” 
Project Justification 
• 
Clearly define and explain the transportation problem or deficiency that the project will 
attempt to address.  Why is it critical to address the problem now?  Make the case for a 
critical need that the project will address and support it with verifiable data, if available. 
Grant Specific Objective 
Demonstrate how the project fits every aspect of the Grant Specific Objective, as appropriate 
for the applicant and project type. 
Project Management 
• 
Scope of Work: Refer to the Scope of Work Checklist in Appendix B.   
• 
Cost and Schedule :  Refer to the Cost and Schedule Checklist in Appendix B.   
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 37 of 115
74 of 448

--- page 75 ---
6. GRANT PROJECT ADMINISTRATIVE 
REQUIREMENTS 
The content of this chapter should be notably considered in the development of grant applications 
as it lays the foundation for what to expect when applying for these grant funds.  Upon award, 
grantees will receive more specific guidelines including administrative and reporting requirements.   
 
Coordination with Caltrans  
Caltrans is committed to be an active partner.  If awarded a grant, the applicant should include 
Caltrans district staff when planning both technical advisory and community meetings.  In addition, 
Caltrans district staff will help to ensure that the approved Scope of Work, Cost and Schedule, and 
project funding will be maintained throughout the life of the contract.  Applicants are also 
recommended to engage Caltrans district staff throughout the entire grant life, when applicable.   
Caltrans may contact grantees to participate in peer exchange forums to promote information 
sharing and best practices.   
If an agency does not demonstrate adequate performance and timely use of funds, Caltrans may 
take appropriate actions, which can include termination of the grant. 
 
Third Party Contracts 
The agreements between a grantee and a sub-applicant/recipient, consultant, or sub-consultant 
are often referred to as “third party contracts.”  An eligible sub-applicant should be identified by 
an eligible applicant at the onset of the application.  Eligible sub-applicants/recipients may be 
added to an application after award with prior Caltrans approval.  If a grantee or a sub-recipient is 
going to hire a consultant to perform work during the project, then proper procurement 
procedures must always be used. 
Grantees may use their agency’s procurement procedures as long as they comply with the State 
Contracting Manual, Chapter 5, the Local Assistance Procedures Manual, Chapter 10, and the 
terms of the agreement with Caltrans.  In addition, work can only be contracted if it has been 
stated in the applicant’s Scope of Work and Cost and Schedule.  A grantee is fully responsible for 
all work performed by its sub-recipient, consultant, or sub-consultant.  Caltrans solely enters into a 
contract directly with the grantee; therefore, the grantee is responsible to ensure that all third 
parties adhere to the same provisions included in the contractual agreement between Caltrans 
and the grantee.   
All government funded consultant procurement transactions must be conducted using a fair and 
competitive procurement process that is consistent with the State Contracting Manual, Chapter 5,9 
the Local Assistance Procedures Manual, Chapter 10,10 and the terms of the agreement with 
Caltrans.  All documentation of third-party contract procurements must be retained, and copies of 
9 California State Contracting Manual Volume 1, Chapter 5, 2018, 
https://www.dgs.ca.gov/OLS/Resources/Page-Content/Office-of-Legal-Services-Resources-List-
Folder/State-Contracting 
10 Caltrans Local Assistance Procedures Manual, Chapter 10, 2020, 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/local-assistance/guidelines-and-procedures/local-assistance-
procedures-manual-lapm 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 38 of 115
75 of 448

--- page 76 ---
all agreements must be submitted to Caltrans.  For more information on third party contracting, visit 
the State Contracting Manual and the Local Assistance Procedures Manual Websites.  
 
Quarterly Reporting 
Quarterly Progress Reports (QPR) are required to be submitted for each State FY quarter after the 
grant recipient has received a Notice to Proceed letter.  The table below illustrates the State FY 
timeframes for submitting the QPR to Caltrans district staff. 
For MPOs and RTPAs, the progress and expenditure of each awarded grant project must be 
included as part of the OWP Quarterly Progress and Expenditure Report.  If this method of reporting 
is not adequately satisfied, Caltrans staff will require separate quarterly reports for each awarded 
grant project. 
All other primary grant recipients shall submit progress reports every quarter for each awarded 
grant project.  Caltrans district staff will provide the brief report form and due dates. 
 
Integrated Climate Adaptation and Resiliency Program (ICARP) 
Case Studies  
Caltrans and the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research are sharing the lessons learned from 
this grant opportunity to inform other existing or new state grant programs.  To this end, Climate 
Adaptation Planning primary grant recipients will prepare a final case study/write-up upon grant 
completion to be included in the ICARP Clearinghouse (described in Appendix A., Pages 70-71), 
which was developed to share information, resources, and case studies with local and regional 
jurisdictions.  Previous case studies can be found on the ICARP Case Study website11.   These case 
studies will be used to develop guidance for adaptation work in the future.  Caltrans will share 
progress reports with the ICARP Technical Advisory Council at regular intervals.   
Climate Adaptation Planning grant recipients are also invited and encouraged to request 
technical assistance support from the ICARP program, including bringing key challenges or lessons 
learned to the Technical Advisory Council for their input.  Caltrans staff will provide ICARP contact 
information upon request. 
Final Case Study Requirements: 
• 
Include images and GIS files of maps, when applicable 
• 
Emphasize processes or results that can be adapted or replicated for use in multiple 
jurisdictions or in various parts of the state 
• 
Document the underserved community’s involvement throughout the entire process of the 
proposed project and tools used to capture this information   
 
11 ICARP Case Study website: https://resilientca.org/case-studies/ 
Quarterly Progress Report Timeframes  
Quarter 1 
Quarter 2 
Quarter 3 
Quarter 4 
July – September 
October – December 
January – March 
April – June 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 39 of 115
76 of 448

--- page 77 ---
Invoicing and Financial Requirements 
Pre-Award Audit 
The Sustainable Communities grants are available in amounts up to $700,000, Strategic Partnerships 
grants are up to $500,000 and Climate Adaptation Planning grants are up to $3,000,000.  However, 
any awarded grant in excess of $250,000 may require a pre-award audit.  The pre-award audit is to 
ensure that recipients of State or federal funds maintain adequate financial management systems 
prior to receiving the funds.  Pre-award audits may be required of new grantees, agencies that 
have not recently been audited, agencies that have undergone prior audits with significant 
weaknesses or deficiencies in their financial management systems, or those determined to be a 
higher risk to Caltrans.  If a pre-award audit is needed, the local Caltrans district office will contact 
the grantee to facilitate the appropriate action.   
Accounting Requirements 
Grantees and sub-applicants/recipients are required to maintain an accounting system that 
properly records, and segregates incurred project costs and matching funds by line item.  The 
accounting system of the grantee, including its sub-applicants and subcontractors, must conform 
to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles that enable the determination of incurred costs at 
interim points of completion and provides support for reimbursement payment vouchers or invoices 
sent to or paid by Caltrans.  Allowable project costs must comply with 2 Code of Federal 
Regulations (CFR), Part 200.  It is the grantee’s responsibility, in conjunction with Caltrans district 
staff, to monitor work and expenses to ensure the project is completed according to the 
contracted Scope of Work and Cost and Schedule.  Grantees must monitor work and costs to 
ensure invoices are submitted on a regular and timely basis (monthly or quarterly as milestones are 
completed).  Grantees must communicate with their local Caltrans district office to ensure any 
issues are addressed early during the project period. 
Local Match  
All grant project tasks/activities require a grant amount and a local match, except a grant amount 
for administrative Tasks 01, 02 is optional.  The local match is a financial requirement that 
demonstrates the grantee/local agency is vested in the project.  
Because the local match is part of the total project cost, the local match can only fund eligible 
grant activities.  Therefore, grant recipients must fund ineligible activities with funds other than the 
local match.   
The local match can be all cash, all third-party in-kind contributions, or a combination of the two. 
The minimum local match is a percentage of the total project cost (i.e., minimum local match 
amount plus the grant amount) and is identified in the Cost and Schedule at the Task level.   
Beginning with FY 2021-22, grantees can provide a tapered local match, which allows grantees to 
vary the required local match ratio for each task and with every Request for Reimbursement.  
Applicants must identify if they will utilize the tapered match on the Cost and Schedule.  Grantees 
agree to satisfy the total local match amount by the grant expiration date. 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 40 of 115
77 of 448

--- page 78 ---
Local Match Sources  
• 
Sustainable Communities Competitive and Technical 
Federal toll credits, FHWA PL, and FTA Section 5303, and Sustainable Communities Formula are 
ineligible match sources; otherwise, any source of funds may be used if the proposed grant 
work is an eligible activity for the local match fund source.   
• 
Sustainable Communities Formula 
Federal toll credits are an ineligible match source; otherwise, any source of funds may be used 
if the proposed grant work is an eligible activity for the local match fund source.  If MPOs are 
matching with federal Consolidated Planning Grant (CPG) funds (i.e., FHWA PL or FTA Section 
5303), the work must all be eligible.  However, federal approval is required as CPG objectives 
may differ and must be aligned with Sustainable Communities Formula specific objectives and 
23 CFR Part 450 requirements.12   
• 
Climate Adaptation Planning  
Federal toll credits, FHWA PL, and FTA Section 5303, and Sustainable Communities Formula are 
ineligible match sources; otherwise, any source of funds may be used if the proposed grant 
work is an eligible activity for the local match fund source.   
Local match is not required for Native American Tribal Governments. 
 
• 
Strategic Partnerships and Strategic Partnerships – Transit   
Any non-federal source of funds may be used if the proposed grant work is an eligible activity 
for the local match fund source.  If MPOs are matching with Sustainable Communities Formula 
funds, the objectives for each grant must be in alignment.  Caltrans approval is required. 
Cash Match 
• 
Staff time from the primary applicant counts as cash match.  Staff time charged to a specific 
project that has been funded and or reimbursed, cannot be used to meet the match 
requirement for another project. 
• 
Sub-applicant staff time, if reimbursed, is considered cash match.  If donating their time, it is 
considered in-kind. 
• 
Revenue sources for local cash match can include local sales tax, special bond measures, 
private donations, private foundations, etc.  
Third-Party In-Kind Match 
Third party in-kind contributions are typically goods and services donated from outside the primary 
grantee’s agency and can be counted towards the minimum local match requirement.  Examples 
of third-party in-kind contributions is the value of donated: 
• 
Public outreach materials 
• 
Interpreter Services 
• 
Facilities  
• 
Equipment  
• 
Advertising 
• 
Student volunteers and other stakeholder staff time  
• 
Other goods and services   
12 Title 23, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 450, 
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2004-title23-vol1/pdf/CFR-2004-title23-vol1-part450.pdf  
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 41 of 115
78 of 448

--- page 79 ---
The Third-Party In-Kind Valuation Plan is required to itemize and place value on donated goods and 
services.  It must be submitted to Caltrans for approval only if the grant application is awarded.  
The Third-Party In-Kind Valuation Plan Checklist and Template can be found in Appendix B.  
In addition: 
• 
The value of third-party in-kind contributions must be directly benefiting and specifically 
identifiable to the project.  
• 
Minimum wage standards for student workers or Caltrans pay rates for equal-level volunteers 
are acceptable base values of volunteer time. 
• 
Third-party in-kind contribution information must be identified on the Grant Application Cover 
Sheet, the Cost and Schedule, and the project specific Work Element in the OWP (if 
applicable).  
Minimum Local Match Requirements  
Applicants/grantees will be held responsible for any local commitments above the minimum 
requirement included in the grant application and will be made part of the grant agreement with 
Caltrans.  Once the agreement is executed, any decrease to local match commitments above 
the minimum required amount will require Caltrans approval through an amendment.  The 
example shown in the following table illustrates the minimum local match requirement based on a 
grant request of $300,000.  Applicants must use the Local Match Calculator13 to ensure the correct 
amounts are reflected on the Grant Application Cover Sheet and the Cost and Schedule. 
 
Minimum Local Match Requirements (Percentage of Total Project Cost) 
Grant Program 
Grant Request 
Local Match 
Total Project Cost 
Sustainable Communities, 
Climate Adaptation 
Planning, and Strategic 
Partnerships –Transit  
88.53% 
Example: $300,000 
11.47%* 
Example: $38,868 
100% 
Example: $338,868 
Strategic Partnerships 
80% 
Example: $300,000 
20% 
Example: $75,000 
100% 
Example: $375,000 
*Climate Adaptation Planning local match is not required for Native American Tribal Governments. 
Indirect and Direct Costs 
Direct costs are those costs that can be identified specifically with a particular final cost objective, 
such as a state award, or other internally or externally funded activity, or that can be directly 
assigned to such activities relatively easily with a high degree of accuracy.  Costs incurred for the 
same purpose in like circumstances must be treated consistently as either direct or indirect costs, 
also known as facilities and administrative costs or overhead costs. 
Indirect Costs are costs that are incurred for a common or joint purpose. These costs benefit more 
than one cost objective and cannot be readily identified with a particular final cost objective.  
13 Local Match Calculator posted on-line at (will download as MS Excel spreadsheet): 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/transportation-planning/division-of-transportation-planning/regional-
and-community-planning/sustainable-transportation-planning-grants  
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 42 of 115
79 of 448

--- page 80 ---
Reproduction costs, computer purchase, and office supplies are considered indirect costs, unless 
they are tied to a specific task or activity then they are considered direct costs. 
Indirect Cost Allocation Plan/Indirect Cost Rate Proposal 
If a grantee, including sub-recipients and third-party 
contractors/consultants, are seeking reimbursement of 
indirect costs, they must submit an Indirect Cost 
Allocation Plan (ICAP)or an Indirect Cost Rate Proposal 
(ICRP) to Caltrans.  Submissions should be sent to 
Caltrans Internal Audits Office (CIAO) or Independent 
Office of Audits and Investigations (IOAI).   
CIAO is responsible for the review and approval of 
government entities and non-profits ICAP submissions. 
IOAI is responsible for the review and approval of for 
profit (Consultant) ICAP submissions. Consultants submit 
their ICAPs only when they are initially included in the 
contract and not on an annual basis. 
An ICAP or ICRP must be prepared and submitted 
yearly in accordance with 2 CFR, Part 200.  Indirect costs may be sought for reimbursement only 
after the grantee has received ICAP/ICRP approval from CIAO. For guidance on the ICAP/ICRP 
submission process, visit Caltrans Internal Audit Office14 and the Caltrans LAPM Chapter 5 
Accounting/ Invoicing. 15 
Most Common Types of Indirect Cost Rates 
The following are the most common types of Indirect Cost Rates: 
• Fixed Rate 
• Final Rate 
• De Minimis Rate 
• Safe Harbor Rate 
Changes to the De Minimis Rate are outlined in the revised 2 CFR Part 200.414(f)16 that became 
effective November 12, 2020. 
Applications must include the estimated indirect cost rate on the Cost and Schedule.   
Travel Expenses 
Grantees may be eligible to claim travel expenses if they have been approved in the Scope of 
Work and Cost and Schedule.  Travel expenses and per diem rates are not to exceed the rate 
specified by the State of California Department of Personnel Administration for similar employees 
(i.e., non-represented employees).  Any request for reimbursement that exceeds the State rates will 
14 Caltrans Internal Audits Office, ICAP/ICRP Submission Process, 2022, 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/audits/submission-review-main 
15 Caltrans Local Assistance Procedures Manual Chapter 5, 2020,  
 https://dot.ca.gov/-/media/dot-media/programs/local-assistance/documents/lapm/ch05.pdf 
16 Electronic Code of Federal Regulations, 2 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 200.414(f), 2020, 
https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=se2.1.200_1414&rgn=div8  
IMPORTANT NOTE 
 Applications must include 
the estimated indirect cost 
rate on the Cost and 
Schedule.   
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 43 of 115
80 of 448

--- page 81 ---
be denied.  The grantee is responsible for paying beyond the State rates and cannot use the local 
match because it is an ineligible activity. 
For more information on eligible travel expenses, visit the Caltrans Travel Guide Website. 17 
Requests for Reimbursements 
• 
Grant payments are made only as reimbursements.   
• 
Grant reimbursements will be based on actual allowable incurred costs.   
• 
Grant costs will be reimbursed if incurred on or after the start date and the issuance of the 
Notice to Proceed and before the expiration date.   
• 
Request for Reimbursements (RFRs) must be submitted at least quarterly, but no more 
frequently than monthly. 
• 
A one-time, lump sum invoice or RFR for the entire grant is not allowed.   
• 
Grantees must pay sub-recipients and subcontractors prior to submitting an RFR to Caltrans.   
• 
Incomplete or inaccurate RFRs will be returned for correction.    
• 
An accounting management system generated report must accompany all RFRs. 
• 
Refer to Chapter 9.2 to determine final RFR dates 
• 
When requesting reimbursement of indirect costs, the following items are required as part of 
the submitted RFR package: 
o 
An approved ICAP/ICRP rate must be on file for the FY in which the costs occurred. 
o 
A financial management system report that segregates direct/indirect costs by fund 
source. 
o 
ICAP support document spreadsheet that identifies direct charges and rate applied to 
those charges. 
 
Non-Discrimination Requirements 
Title VI Non-Discrimination Requirement 
The FHWA and the FTA each have requirements that recipients of Metropolitan Planning federal 
funds must demonstrate continued compliance with Title VI.  Compliance with Title VI includes 
conducting meetings in a fair and reasonable manner that are open to all members of a 
community.  Compliance reflects not only the law but is also a good policy that builds the kind of 
trust and information sharing upon which successful planning is done.  Even where a city or county 
may not be receiving federal funding for transportation, the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987 also 
obligates that a city or county comply with Title VI, if it receives any other federal funding for any 
program.  Refer to the Caltrans Title VI website18  for more information.  
Disadvantaged Business Enterprises 
Successful grant applicants are expected to market contracting opportunities to all small 
businesses, including DBEs and Disabled Veteran Business Enterprises. 
17 Caltrans Travel Guide, 2020, https://dot.ca.gov/programs/accounting/travel-guide  
18 Caltrans, Title IV of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 2020,  
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/civil-rights/title-vi 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 44 of 115
81 of 448

--- page 82 ---
Grant recipients of federal funds are required to report any contracting opportunities that may 
involve DBE participation.  DBE reporting is required twice a year: April 1 and October 1. For details 
about DBE requirements, visit the Office of Regional Planning website.19 
 
Final Product 
All final reports funded through the Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program shall credit 
the FHWA, FTA, or Caltrans’ financial participation on the cover or title page.  An Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1994 (ADA)-accessible electronic copy of all final reports shall be forwarded to 
the Caltrans district office responsible for the administration and oversight of the grant.  There are 
resources to assist with development of ADA compliant documents.20 
Any technologies or inventions that may result from the use of these grants are in the public 
domain and may not be copyrighted, sold, or used exclusively by any business, organization, or 
agency.  Caltrans reserves a royalty-free, non-exclusive, and irrevocable license to reproduce, 
publish, or otherwise use and to authorize others to use for public purposes. 
Applicants should thoughtfully develop the project title.  Once a Caltrans grant agreement is 
executed, changes to the original grant project title are not allowed.  Grantees may use an “Also 
Known As” (AKA), but both the AKA and the original title must be included in the final product. 
Grantees must submit their final product with the final RFR to Caltrans for approval and  
reimbursement. Grantees will not be reimbursed for activities that are not completed, and the 
activity budget must be left unexpended.   
 
Project Close-Out Survey 
Once awarded grant projects are completed, grantees will complete a close-out survey to 
describe the successes and challenges of their project.  The survey will give the opportunity to (1) 
highlight successes and obstacles in project implementation of the concepts identified by the 
planning process, (2) identify best practices in transportation planning, with an emphasis in public 
engagement, and (3) identify studies/plans that have been or will be funded for continued project 
development.  Information from the survey will be compiled into a report to illustrate the value of 
the grant program and inform planning practitioners in their planning efforts.  Caltrans’ goal is to 
provide transparency and accountability for the program, as well as to use the survey feedback to 
better serve future grant applicants. 
19 Office of Regional Planning, Disadvantaged Business Enterprise, 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/civil-rights/dbe  
20 State of California Accessibility Website: https://www.ca.gov/accessibility/ 
California Department of Rehabilitation Accessibility Website: 
https://www.dor.ca.gov/Home/Accessibility   
MS Office Support Video: https://support.office.com/en-us/article/video-check-the-accessibility-of-
your-document-9d660cba-1fcd-45ad-a9d1-c4f4b5eb5b7d  
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 45 of 115
82 of 448

--- page 83 ---
California Public Records Act 
All applications are subject to the California Public Records Act of 196821.  As such, applicants may 
be contacted by anyone who requests their grant application.  While Caltrans is obligated to share 
applications at any time, awarded applicants should avoid a potential conflict of interest when 
contacted by consultants who may inquire about the grant-funded project and not give the 
consultant an unfair advantage for the consultant procurement process. 
 
 
21 Leg info, California Government Code, Sections 6250 - 6270.7, 
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displayText.xhtml?division=7.&chapter=3.5.&lawCod
e=GOV&title=1.&article=1.  
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 46 of 115
83 of 448

--- page 84 ---
7.
APPLICATION SUBMITTAL PROCESS
The Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program is highly competitive.  This section provides 
applicants with supplemental information as well as details on required documents that must 
accompany an application at the time of submittal.  All applicants are strongly encouraged to 
adhere to these requirements in order to score competitively during the application evaluation 
process. 
Applicant Eligibility 
Primary applicants must have statutory authority to conduct transportation/transit planning for their 
jurisdiction.  Generally, the local and regional agencies have this specific authority.  Native 
American Tribal Governments must be Federally recognized to be eligible.  Refer to the public 
entity’s bylaws to find this information.  
 
Early Coordination and Technical Assistance for Primary 
Applicants 
Sub-applicants are encouraged to work far in advance of the application deadline with the 
appropriate primary applicant to coordinate application development.  It is also beneficial for  
sub-applicants to be informed of the appropriate primary applicant process and schedule, as they 
may differ slightly from those of Caltrans.  RTPAs residing within MPO boundaries should also 
coordinate application development with the MPO, as it is critical to ensure that proposed studies 
align with the RTP SCS/APS for the entire MPO region and do not duplicate efforts being applied for 
or already awarded to the MPO. 
Caltrans district staff (See Appendix D) are available during the application period to answer 
questions and help interested groups complete their applications.   
For questions specific to the Grant Application Guide, applicants are also welcomed to contact: 
Application Guide 
Technical Assistance 
Contacts 
Sustainable Communities and 
Strategic Partnerships 
Grant Management Branch 
Caltrans Division of Transportation Planning 
Office of Regional and Community Planning 
Email: Regional.Planning.Grants@dot.ca.gov 
Climate Adaptation Planning 
Julia Biggar, Climate Change Branch Chief 
Caltrans Division of Transportation Planning 
Office of Air Quality and Climate Change 
Email: Julia.Biggar@dot.ca.gov 
Questions about Housing 
Element Compliance for 
Sustainable Communities 
Competitive and Technical 
Paul McDougall 
Department of Housing and Community Development 
Email: Paul.McDougall@hcd.ca.gov 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 47 of 115
84 of 448

--- page 85 ---
7.3 
Application Submittal Instructions 
The Grant Application Guide, Application forms, and required templates are available on the 
Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program website, at: 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/transportation-planning/division-of-transportation-planning/regional-
and-community-planning/sustainable-transportation-planning-grants 
• 
All grant application packages are required to be submitted via Smartsheet   
• 
Smartsheet features work better with Google Chrome browser 
• 
Smartsheet progress cannot be saved. To avoid issues, follow these instructions: 
1. Complete the Application Cover Sheet in MS Word  
2. Copy and paste the Application Cover Sheet fields into the Smartsheet form 
3. Have the PDF attachment ready to upload into the Smartsheet form   
• 
An agency may only submit one application package per Smartsheet submittal.   
• 
An application cannot be submitted to more than one grant category. 
• 
The required items outlined on the Grant Application Checklist in Appendix B must be 
submitted as a single PDF document (not to exceed 25MB); if awarded, original formats will 
be requested.   
• 
All application documents must list the applicant’s legal name.   
• 
A confirmation of receipt can be sent via Smartsheet if the applicant checks the box to 
receive a copy of the submittal.  
 
Submit applications via Smartsheet Form no later than 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 2024 BY 5:00 P.M. 
Hard copies will not be accepted and late applications will 
not be reviewed. 
 
Caltrans anticipated award announcements:  Summer 2024 
Caltrans district staff are available during the application period to answer 
questions and help interested groups complete their applications.  Refer to 
Appendix D. Caltrans District Contact List for contact information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Download the latest version of Adobe Reader DC ® to complete the application 
form. This version of Adobe is available free of charge. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 48 of 115
85 of 448

--- page 86 ---
7.4 
Application Supplemental Documentation 
The following documents are not required, but enhance the overall application and typically result 
in a more competitive application during the evaluation process: 
Letters of Support 
If submitted, letters of support must be included with the 
application package.  Letters received separate from 
the application package may not be considered. The 
letters should be addressed to the applicant.  Such 
letters can come from community-based organizations, 
local governments, regional governments, Native 
American Tribal governments, service agencies, and 
elected officials. 
Graphics 
Clearly labeled photographs, maps, planning diagrams, 
land use or design illustrations, or other relevant graphic 
representations of the proposed project area convey 
existing conditions and help to further explain the need 
for the grant and the priority of the proposed planning 
project with respect to community need.  Please ensure 
that graphics include a text description to provide 
context. 
Safety Data 
Statistical data such as pedestrian-vehicle injuries/crashes or fatalities resulting from lack of safe 
infrastructure, or other road conditions that contribute to possible injuries.  This information may be 
obtained from police reports, transit agencies, National Highway Traffic Administration, or the 
Governor’s Highway Safety Association. 
Travel Mode Data 
Data on mode share, commute patterns, accessibility for low-income and underserved 
populations, access to job centers, or other data to show the need and potential for mode shift to 
non-auto transportation modes. 
Other Data 
As applicable, to indicate the need and potential for reducing VMT and GHG, where available. 
 
 
The following documents 
are not required, but 
enhance the overall 
application and typically 
result in a more 
competitive application 
during the evaluation 
process: 
•
Letters of Support 
•
Graphics 
•
Safety Data 
•
Travel Mode Data 
•
Other Data 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 49 of 115
86 of 448

--- page 87 ---
8. APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS 
 
Two-Tiered Application Review Process 
This chapter provides a brief overview of the grant application review process.  Grant application 
evaluation is a two-tiered process that consists of: 
• 
Caltrans District Review and Evaluation 
• 
Caltrans Headquarters (HQ) Interagency Review Committees Evaluation 
Caltrans district staff conducts the first-level review of all applications for content, submission of 
proper documentation, overall relationship to regional and local planning efforts, and documents 
their evaluations.  Caltrans district staff scores, prioritizes, and recommends the most highly ranked 
Sustainable Communities and all Strategic Partnerships applications for the next level of review with 
the Interagency Review Committees.  Grant applications from Native American Tribal 
Governments, Transit Agencies, and proposed projects spanning multiple Caltrans districts or 
projects having a statewide significance, may also move on directly from Caltrans districts to HQ 
for review. 
The HQ Interagency Review Committees conduct the second-level review and comprise staff from 
Caltrans HQ, the Federal Highway Administration, the Federal Transit Administration, the California 
Department of Housing and Community Development, the California Department of Public Health, 
the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research, the Strategic Growth Council, and the California 
Air Resources.  Caltrans HQ also coordinates with internal specialists, depending on the grant 
application subject matter, to provide high-level reviews of the proposed project to avoid funding 
duplicative efforts or efforts that are not supportive of State planning efforts.  The committees for 
each grant category convene to develop funding recommendations that are approved by every 
level of Caltrans management and the California State Transportation Agency. 
 
Application Evaluation/Scoring Process 
Grant applications that address every aspect of the grant specific objectives will score higher 
overall.  Caltrans has diverse applicants and project types, which makes it difficult to use a one-size 
fits all scoring rubric that would not unintentionally put some applicant/project types at a 
disadvantage.  Therefore, applications will be scored based on how well they are able to describe 
the project, justify need, incorporate the grant specific objectives, and develop a Scope of Work 
and Cost and Schedule, all in accordance with this grant guide, samples and checklists provided, 
as applicable and appropriate for the applicant and project type.  Once the grant review 
committees evaluate, rank, and select the best applications for grant funding, final 
recommendations are presented to Caltrans management and California State Transportation 
Agency for approval. 
 
Past Performance Award Considerations 
Previous Caltrans transportation planning grantee performance will be considered during the 
evaluation process.  Applicants with a history of inadequate performance and/or unresolved past 
grant performance issues may be at a competitive disadvantage in the application review 
process.  Past performance issues could include the following: 
• 
Poor grant project management 
• 
Lack of communication/coordination with Caltrans 
• 
Failure to achieve grant project milestones 
• 
Untimely invoice submittals 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 50 of 115
87 of 448

--- page 88 ---
• 
Excessive balances and consistently relinquish transportation funds administered by Caltrans 
Planning  
• 
Unresolved audit issues or findings  
• 
Overall poor quality of the final grant product 
• 
Failure to satisfy the required state and federal planning requirements including submittal and 
administration of OWPs, RTPs, and Transportation Improvement Programs 
If an agency does not demonstrate adequate performance and timely use of funds, Caltrans may 
take appropriate actions, which can include denial of extenuating circumstance time extension 
requests and termination of the grant. 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 51 of 115
88 of 448

--- page 89 ---
9. APPLICATION AWARD PROCESS 
 
Award and Non-Award 
Successful grant applicants will receive an award letter via email.  A list of award and non-
awarded grants will be posted to the Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program 
website.    
Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant Program Website: 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/transportation-planning/division-of-transportation-planning/regional-
and-community-planning/sustainable-transportation-planning-grants  
Conditional Award Teleconferences 
Each grantee will receive a Conditional Award Letter that outlines the grant project cost, important 
expiration and final invoice dates. 
Caltrans district staff will schedule individual teleconferences to provide the specific and general 
conditions of grant acceptance that are necessary to accept grant funding, including any 
revisions to the grant application, Scope of Work and Cost and Schedule.  Conditions may include 
revisions to the project Scope of Work to bolster public participation, consider land use and 
housing, and to coordinate with local housing and community development departments and 
health departments.  Awardees are required to submit all supporting materials and a signed 
agreement or risk forfeiting the grant award. 
Non-Award Teleconferences 
Unsuccessful grant applicants are encouraged to request a debriefing from Caltrans.  Applicants 
typically receive specific comments from the District/Interagency Review Committee on how to 
improve applications to re-apply in a future grant cycle.  If the application advanced to the 
second-level review, HQ provides the Interagency Review Committee score, as well as how close 
the application was relative to the cut-off score for available grant funding.  Applicants sometimes 
apply two or three times before they are successful due to the competitiveness of the grant 
program. 
 
Contracting with Caltrans 
All awarded grant funds must be under an executed agreement with Caltrans during the State FY 
2024-25.  The project start date depends on the method of contracting with Caltrans.  
MPOs and Rural RTPAs 
All MPOs/RTPAs with a current Master Fund Transfer Agreement (MFTA) must have the entire grant 
award and local match programmed in the FY 2024-25 OWP within 90-days of receiving the signed 
FY 2023-24 reconciliation letter.  Due to the competitiveness of this grant program, failure to 
program funds may result in forfeiture of grant funds.  MPOs/RTPAs should include a place-holder 
Work Element in the Draft FY 2024-25 OWP and satisfy specific grant conditions before the first FY 
2024-25 OWP amendment.  MPO/RTPAs can anticipate starting their projects in November 2024, 
after the OWP amendment is processed and Caltrans issues a formal Notice to Proceed. 
Non-MPOs/RTPAs 
Grantees that do not have a current MFTA with the Caltrans Office of Regional and Community 
Planning (i.e., cities, counties, transit agencies, Tribal Governments), Caltrans will contract directly 
with the primary grantees through the Restricted Grant Agreement (RGA) process.  For grantees 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 52 of 115
89 of 448

--- page 90 ---
that undergo the RGA contracting process, work may begin as early as November 2024, assuming 
the grantee has received a fully executed contract and Caltrans district staff send a formal Notice 
to Proceed which allows grantees to begin work. 
Estimated Project Start/Expiration Dates 
It is important for applicants to reflect the estimated project start date in the Scope of Work and 
Cost and Schedule.  Project Timeline constraints for both methods of contracting with Caltrans are 
provided below.  Grantees must consider these dates when developing the Scope of Work and 
Cost and Schedule: 
Master Fund Transfer Agreement Project Timeline (MPOs/RTPAs Only) 
November 2024 
• 
Anticipated start date 
June 30, 2027 
• 
Grant project end/expiration date  
• 
Reimbursable work must be completed 
• 
Grant extensions are only allowed for extenuating circumstances and may 
require a formal Overall Work Program (OWP) amendment 
August 30, 2027 
• 
All Final Request for Reimbursements for must be submitted no later than 60 
days after the end of the fiscal year to coincide with the submission of the 
OWP Final Expenditure Report. 
Restricted Grant Agreement Project Timeline (Non-MPO/RTPAs) 
November 2024 
• 
Anticipated start date 
June 30, 2027 
• 
Grant project end/expiration date 
• 
Reimbursable work must be completed 
• 
Grant extensions are only allowed for extenuating circumstances and require a 
formal amendment.  
August 30, 2027 
• 
Final Request for Reimbursements and final products must be submitted to 
Caltrans for approval and reimbursement.  This allows Caltrans sufficient time to 
comply with the State Controller’s Office payment requirements. 
Native American Tribal Governments 
Native American Tribal Governments have the following options for contracting with Caltrans: 
(1) Contracting with Tribes Directly – The authority Caltrans uses to contract with tribes directly 
comes from California Streets and Highways Code section 94.  Caltrans requires tribes to 
provide a limited waiver of sovereign immunity that is very specifically limited in scope and in 
time to only apply to the grant contract itself (and to any possible audits).   The RGA boilerplate 
template for Native American Tribal Governments is available upon request to help weigh the 
options for contracting with Caltrans. 
(2) Partnering with a Regional Agency – Another mechanism for contracting with Caltrans is to 
collaborate with an MPO or RTPA.  Caltrans can pass through grant funding to tribes for 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 53 of 115
90 of 448

--- page 91 ---
planning projects where options or time are limited.  This option uses the three-part contract, 
MFTA/OWP/OWPA, and is usually the quickest option to allow planning projects to get started. 
(3) Transferring Funds Pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 202(a)(9) – Section 202(a)(9) of title 23, United States 
Code encourages cooperation between States and Tribes by allowing any funds received from 
a State, county, or local government to be credited to appropriations available for the Tribal 
Transportation Program (TTP).  One potential source of such funding is funds apportioned or 
allocated to a State under title 23.  Section 104(f)(3) allows the Secretary of Transportation to, at 
the request of a State, transfer among States, or to the FHWA, funds that have been so 
apportioned or allocated.  This provision, used in conjunction with the authority under 23 U.S.C. 
209(a)(9), allows State funds to be transferred to FHWA, which in turn would provide the funds 
to the specified Tribe.  
For more information visit the FHWA website.22 
Caltrans has successfully used the federal Section 202(a)(9) process to transfer Sustainable 
Communities grant funds to a Native American Tribal Government.  In order to use this transfer 
process, an agreement would need to be in place with the FHWA or the Bureau of Indian 
Affairs, the Tribe, and the State that clearly identifies the project and the roles and 
responsibilities of all parties.  Each interagency fund transfer includes 1) a fund transfer template 
and 2) an addendum lining out the specifics of the terms.  This option requires involvement and 
approval by Caltrans Legal and the funds must be used for the intended purpose of the 
awarded Sustainable Communities grant. 
 
 
22 Federal Highway Administration, Office of Tribal Transportation , 2020 
https://flh.fhwa.dot.gov/programs/ttp/documents/Funds-Transfer-Procedures-Pursuant-to-23-
U.S.C.202%28a%29%289%29.pdf 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 54 of 115
91 of 448

--- page 92 ---
APPENDICES 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 55 of 115
92 of 448

--- page 93 ---
APPENDIX A.  GUIDANCE, TOOLS, AND RESOURCES FOR 
PREPARING A GRANT APPLICATION 
Grant Program Considerations 
The Grant Application Guide incorporates guidance from many sources.  The following links are 
provided to assist applicants in preparing a competitive grant application consistent with the grant 
program, specific objectives, and the Grant Program Considerations: 
• 
Caltrans Strategic Plan 
• 
California Transportation Plan (CTP) 2050 
• 
Modal Plans that Support the CTP  
o 
Interregional Transportation Strategic Plan 
o 
California Freight Mobility Plan 
o 
California State Rail Plan 
o 
California State Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan 
o 
Statewide Transit Strategic Plan 
o 
California Aviation System Plan 
• 
Title VI and Environmental Justice 
• 
Climate Action Plan for Transportation Infrastructure 
• 
California Climate Adaptation Strategy 
• 
Master Plan for Aging 
Caltrans Strategic Plan 
The purpose of the Strategic Plan is to be a roadmap of Caltrans’ role, expectations, and 
operations as we meet the challenges of modernizing Caltrans into a world-class Department of 
Transportation.  The tools we use to implement this Plan are performance management, 
transparency, accountability, sustainability, and innovation.  The Plan serves a number of functions:  
• 
Provides clear direction for meeting statewide objectives;  
• 
Creates and deepens strategic partnerships; and  
• 
Provides performance measures that monitor success  
https://dot.ca.gov/-/media/dot-media/programs/risk-strategic-management/documents/sp-2020-
16p-web-a11y.pdf  
California Transportation Plan 2050 
The CTP 2050 is the State’s statutorily fiscally unconstrained long-range transportation roadmap for 
positive change that:  
• 
Provides a unifying and foundational policy framework for making effective, transparent, 
and transformational transportation decisions in California 
• 
Addresses the varied transportation needs of urban, suburban, rural, and Tribal communities 
• 
Emphasizes implementation and identifies a timeline, roles, and responsibilities for each plan 
recommendation.  
The CTP does not contain projects, but policies and strategies required to close the gap between 
what the regional transportation plans (RTP) aim to achieve and how much more is required to 
meet 2050 goals.  Competitive applications will discuss how proposed projects will assist in 
achieving the CTP 2050. 
https://dot.ca.gov/-/media/dot-media/programs/transportation-planning/documents/ctp-2050-
v3-a11y.pdf  
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 56 of 115
93 of 448

--- page 94 ---
Modal Plans that Support the California Transportation Plan 
The CTP is the umbrella plan that informs and pulls together the State’s long-range modal plans, 
described below, to envision the future system: 
Interregional Transportation Strategic Plan (ITSP) 
A Caltrans document that provides guidance for the identification and prioritization of interregional 
transportation improvements to be funded in the Interregional Transportation Improvement 
Program (ITIP).  The ITSP analyzes the entire interregional transportation system including highways 
and rail.  While the ITSP informs the ITIP, the purpose of the plan is to be a guiding document for all 
investment in the interregional transportation system regardless of funding source. 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/transportation-planning/division-of-transportation-planning/multi-
modal-system-planning  
California Freight Mobility Plan 
A statewide, long-range plan for California's freight transportation system. Developed in 
collaboration with our partners, the California Freight Mobility Plan (CFMP) was developed by the 
California State Transportation Agency (CalSTA) and Caltrans in consultation with the California 
Freight Advisory Committee. 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/transportation-planning/division-of-transportation-planning/strategic-
freight-planning   
California State Rail Plan 
A statewide plan that provides a framework for planning and implementing California’s rail 
network for the next 20 years and beyond.  The Rail Plan is a strategic plan with operating and 
capital investment strategies that will lead to a coordinated, statewide travel system. 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/rail-and-mass-transportation/california-state-rail-plan  
California State Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan 
“Toward an Active California,” California’s first statewide plan that lays out the policies and actions 
that Caltrans and its partner agencies will take to achieve the Department’s ambitious statewide 
goals to double walking and triple bicycling trips by 2020. 
https://dot.ca.gov/-/media/dot-media/programs/transportation-planning/documents/f0020350-
activeca-final-plan-2017-05-18-a11y.pdf  
Statewide Transit Strategic Plan 
The plan allows the State to prepare for the expanding landscape of personal mobility choices and 
the integration of urban and regional transit systems with the California High Speed Rail project.  
The Statewide Transit Strategic Plan highlights a sustainable transportation system that supports the 
outcomes of the CTP, the California State Rail Plan, and the California State Bicycle and Pedestrian 
Plan. 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/rail-and-mass-transportation/statewide-transit-strategic-plan  
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 57 of 115
94 of 448

--- page 95 ---
California Aviation System Plan 
A multi-element plan prepared by Caltrans with the goal of developing and preserving the system 
of publicly owned, public-use airports and to promote the development of a safe, efficient, and 
sustainable air transportation system that meets the integrated mobility needs of the state of 
California. 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/aeronautics/california-aviation-system-plan 
Title VI and Environmental Justice 
Title VI of the U.S. Civil Rights Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national 
origin in programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance.  A similar prohibition applies to 
recipients of state funds under California Government Code section 11135, which prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin, as well as ethnic group identification, 
religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, genetic information, or disability.  Title VI specifically provides 
the following: 
No person in the United States shall, on the ground of race, color, national origin, religion, 
sex, age, or disability be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be 
subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving financial assistance 
from the Federal government. 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/civil-rights/title-vi 
The following tools are provided to assist grant applicants with integrating environmental justice in 
their proposed activities: 
EJSCREEN: Environmental Justice Screening and Mapping Tool 
EJSCREEN, developed by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, geospatially displays 
public health and environmental data and allows users to compare local data against state and 
national averages.  
https://www.epa.gov/ejscreen 
Environmental Justice Agency Assessment 2020 
The California Environmental Justice Alliance completed the fifth Environmental Justice Agency 
Assessment, the only one in the nation to formally examine how state agencies develop, 
implement, and monitor environmentally related policies that particularly impact low-income 
communities and communities of color.  The assessments in this report are made in the spirit of 
holding state agencies and elected officials accountable to the public, and to provide guidance 
on how they can make their work more equitable.   
https://caleja.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/CEJA-Agency-Assessment-062021-FINAL-WEB.pdf  
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 58 of 115
95 of 448

--- page 96 ---
Climate Action Plan for Transportation Infrastructure 
The Climate Action Plan for Transportation Infrastructure (CAPTI) details how the state recommends 
investing billions of discretionary transportation dollars annually to aggressively combat and adapt 
to climate change while supporting public health, safety and equity. CAPTI builds on executive 
orders signed by Governor Gavin Newsom in 2019 and 2020 targeted at reducing greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions in transportation, which account for more than 40 percent of all emissions, to 
reach the state's ambitious climate goals. 
https://calsta.ca.gov/-/media/calsta-media/documents/capti-july-2021-a11y.pdf   
California Climate Adaptation Strategy 
The California Climate Adaptation Strategy, mandated by Assembly Bill 1482 (Gordon, 2015), links 
the state’s existing and planned climate adaptation efforts, showing how they fit together to 
achieve California’s six climate resilience priorities. The Strategy is organized around outcome-
based priorities, enabling a coordinated, integrated approach to building climate resilience. The 
Strategy shows how the state’s efforts fit together to deliver on six priorities for climate resilience 
action in California: Strengthen Protections for Climate Vulnerable Communities; Bolster Public 
Health and Safety to Protect Against Increasing Climate Risks; Make Decisions Based on the Best 
Available Climate Science; Build a Climate Resilient Economy; Accelerate Nature-Based Climate 
Solutions and Strengthen Climate Resilience of Natural Systems; Partner and Collaborate to 
Leverage Resources.  
https://www.climateresilience.ca.gov/  
Master Plan for Aging 
The Master Plan for Aging is a blueprint for aging across the lifespan and outlines five goals and 
twenty-three strategies to build a California for All Ages by 2030. It also includes a Data Dashboard 
for Aging to measure progress and a Local Playbook to drive partnerships that will assist in meeting 
the goals of the Master Plan.   
https://mpa.aging.ca.gov/  
Resources to Advance Grant Specific Objectives 
Applicants must demonstrate how the project fits every aspect of the Grant Specific Objective, as 
appropriate for the applicant and project type.  The following resources are provided in this 
section: 
• 
Multimodal System Planning 
• 
Advance Transportation Related GHG Reduction Project Types/Strategies 
• 
Addressing the Needs of Underserved Communities 
• 
Public Health Resources 
• 
Active Community Engagement 
• 
Integrated Housing, Land Use, and Transportation Planning 
• 
Promote the Region’s RTP SCS/APS, State Planning Priorities, and Climate Adaptation 
Goals 
• 
Climate Ready Transportation and Climate Adaptation Planning 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 59 of 115
96 of 448

--- page 97 ---
Multimodal System Planning 
The following guidance documents can be used in the development of proposed corridor 
plans/studies, freight plans/studies, and other multimodal system planning documents.     
Comprehensive Multimodal Corridor Plan Guidelines 
The California Transportation Commission developed the Comprehensive Multimodal Corridor Plan 
Guidelines (plan guidelines) to provide guidance to eligible Solutions for Congested Corridors 
Program applicants regarding the statutory requirements for comprehensive corridor plans utilized 
by agencies to apply for funding through the Congested Corridors Program.  Applicants proposing 
to develop a comprehensive corridor plan are encouraged to review the plan guidelines to ensure 
their application and final product would align with and compete well for the Solutions for 
Congested Corridors Program.  
https://catc.ca.gov/programs/sb1/solutions-for-congested-corridors-program/comprehensive-
multimodal-corridor-plan-guidelines 
Caltrans Corridor Planning Process Guide 
The Caltrans Division of Transportation Planning prepared the Corridor Planning Process Guide 
(Guide) for use in preparing corridor planning documents.  This Guide establishes a comprehensive 
planning approach through desired protocols and procedures to identify and implement 
multimodal transportation needs.  It is neither intended as nor does it establish, a legal standard for 
these functions. 
https://dot.ca.gov/-/media/dot-media/programs/transportation-planning/documents/system-
planning/systemplanning/corridor-planning-process-guide-april-2022-a11y.pdf 
Planning for Operations Strategic Work Plan 
The Planning for Operations Strategic Work Plan is a statewide framework for multimodal system 
management planning, aims to identify the specific steps needed to implement multimodal system 
management planning at Caltrans and prioritize implementation actions. 
https://dot.ca.gov/-/media/dot-media/programs/transportation-planning/documents/system-
planning/systemplanning/caltrans-p4ops-strategic-work-plan-2018-a11y.pdf  
Caltrans Climate Change Emphasis Area Guide for Corridor Planning 
Consideration of climate change adaptation and mitigation must be included in the corridor 
planning process. This guidance was developed to describe how to address climate risk in the 
context of the Caltrans Corridor Planning Process Guide’s 8 steps process.    
 
https://dot.ca.gov/-/media/dot-media/programs/transportation-
planning/documents/cc_ea_guide_for_corridor_planning_march2020_a11y.pdf 
Active Transportation Emphasis Area Guidance 
Active Transportation is one of several distinct emphasis areas to be considered in corridor plan 
analysis. Caltrans Active Transportation guidance has one goal – to provide corridor planners with 
a framework to assess and analyze the variety of Active Transportation issues that can be 
addressed in Corridor Plans. As the “Eight Step” process will be required to develop Corridor Plans, 
this Active Transportation Emphasis Area (EA) Guidance is based upon those eight steps. 
https://dot.ca.gov/-/media/dot-media/programs/transportation-planning/documents/active-
transportation-complete-streets/20220131active-transportation-emphasis-area-guidance-final-
version-v7a11y.pdf 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 60 of 115
97 of 448

--- page 98 ---
Advance Transportation Related GHG Reduction Project Types/Strategies 
CARB 2017 Climate Change Scoping Plan, Appendix C 
The California Air Resources Board (CARB) adopted the 2017 Climate Change Scoping Plan 
Update which includes Appendix C, Vibrant Communities and Landscapes – A Vision for California 
in 2050, to guide how the State develops communities, preserves and protects its landscapes, and 
ensures that all Californians have equitable access to housing, health care, jobs, and opportunity.  
Competitive Sustainable Communities grant applications will demonstrate a linkage to this land use 
vision. 
The CARB 2017 Climate Change Scoping Plan (Appendix C) also includes Potential State-Level 
Strategies to Advance Sustainable, Equitable Communities and Reduce Vehicle Miles of Travel 
(VMT) which outlines a list of potential additional strategies that the State could pursue to help 
achieve further VMT reduction, support local and regional actions already underway, and 
advance multiple additional goals.   
While this document is intended to guide State-level actions, many of the strategies can also be 
implemented at a regional and local level.  Sustainable Communities grant applicants are 
encouraged to explore these strategies and apply them, as appropriate, to proposed planning 
projects. 
CARB 2017 Climate Change Scoping Plan, Appendix C: 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/files/classic//cc/scopingplan/2030sp_appc_vmt_final.pdf 
For current CARB activities and future updates on Scoping Plan efforts, visit: 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/our-work/programs/ab-32-climate-change-scoping-plan 
Senate Bill 375 
The Sustainable Communities and Climate Protection Act (SB 375) was signed in 2008. It supports 
the State's climate goals by helping reduce greenhouse gas emissions through coordinated 
transportation, housing, and land use planning.  
Under the Sustainable Communities Act, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) sets regional 
targets for greenhouse gas emissions reductions from passenger vehicle use. CARB set targets for 
2020 and 2035 for each of the 18 MPO regions. 
Each of the MPO regions must prepare a Sustainable Communities Strategy/Alternative Planning 
Strategy (SCS/APS), as an integral part of its regional transportation plan, that contains land use, 
housing, and transportation strategies that, if implemented, would allow the region to meet CARB’s 
targets. Once the SCS/APS is adopted by the MPO, CARB must review the adopted SCS/APS to 
accept or reject the MPO's determination that the SCS/APS, if implemented, would meet the 
targets.  
Sustainable Communities grant applicants, where applicable, should explore their regions 
Sustainable Communities Strategy/Alternative Planning Strategy, and apply them, as appropriate, 
to proposed planning projects. 
CARB SCS/APS Evaluations: https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/our-work/programs/sustainable-communities-
program/regional-plans-evaluations 
SB 375: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=200720080SB375  
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 61 of 115
98 of 448

--- page 99 ---
Senate Bill 743 
Senate Bill (SB) 743 was signed in 2013, with the intent to “more appropriately balance the needs of 
congestion management with statewide goals related to infill development, promotion of public 
health through active transportation, and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.” When 
implemented, “traffic congestion shall not be considered a significant impact on the environment” 
within California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) transportation analysis.  The CEQA guidelines 
have since established Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) as one of the measures of transportation-
related environmental impact, beginning December of 2018.  A key element of transportation 
analysis under the new guidance is forecasting induced vehicular travel.  
Applicants who wish to pursue model improvements or develop VMT Mitigation Programs using 
Sustainable Communities Competitive Technical or Formula grants are encouraged to review 
available materials relating to forecasting induced travel, including those found on the Caltrans SB 
743 implementation website, and refer to the example below.  Refer to the Caltrans Traffic Analysis 
Framework for a detailed list of recommended standards for improved forecasting of induced 
vehicular travel.   
Examples include: 
• 
Integration of land use modeling into travel demand models, improving long-term 
induced travel modeling capability 
• 
Incorporation of impacts to trip-making behaviors as a result of network improvements 
• 
Improved congestion feed-back into existing models, or pre- and post-processing 
procedures 
• 
Induced travel case studies  
SB 743: http://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201320140SB743  
Caltrans SB 743 Implementation: https://dot.ca.gov/programs/sustainability/sb-743 
Addressing the Needs of Underserved Communities 
Caltrans encourages eligible applicants to apply for Sustainable Communities Competitive Grants 
to address transportation needs and deficiencies in underserved communities.  Supporting 
planning projects that benefit a underserved community is a priority; therefore, a minimum 
threshold of 50 percent of Sustainable Communities Competitive Grants has been identified for 
projects that benefit underserved communities, which includes Native American Tribal 
Governments and rural communities (for transportation planning purposes, rural is defined as all 
areas of the State that are not included in urbanized areas of 50,000 in population or greater; see 
map in Appendix C which indicates rural areas).  In sum, acceptable underserved communities 
definitions include:  
• Rural communities of 50,000 or less and outside of urbanized areas 
• Native American Tribal Governments 
• Regionally/locally defined underserved communities 
• At or below 80% Assembly Bill 1550 (Gomez, Chapter 369, Statutes of 2016) 
• At or above 75% California Department of Education, Free or Reduced Priced Meals Data  
• At or above 75% CalEnviroScreen Version 4.0  
• At or below 25% California Healthy Places Index (HPI) 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 62 of 115
99 of 448

--- page 100 ---
Grant applicants are required to provide a justification in 
their grant application for how the project area meets the 
definition of an underserved community and a description 
of how the project will benefit these communities, as well 
as how these communities will be engaged throughout the 
project.   
The following tools, related to income level, environmental 
burden, and health inequities, are intended to help 
applicants identify the most vulnerable places that are 
facing disproportionate rates of economic, environmental, 
and health burdens. These tools must be cited in the grant 
application, as well as how the project area is compared 
to the statewide thresholds that are established in each 
tool.  
Regionally and/or Locally Defined Underserved 
Communities 
Regionally and/or locally defined underserved 
communities may be acceptable as long as statewide 
thresholds for the tools below are not circumvented.  Applicants that use a regional or local 
definition should also provide data for their project, using the statewide tools below.  Caltrans may 
not accept the regional/local definition if it is inadequately supported in the justification section of 
the grant application. 
Assembly Bill (AB) 1550 (Gomez, Chapter 369, Statutes of 2016) 
AB 1550 further enhanced the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund statutory requirements to invest a 
minimum of twenty-five percent in underserved communities and another ten percent in low-
income households or communities.  AB 1550 provides definitions for low-income households and 
low-income communities that may be considered in application development: 
(1) “Low-income households” are those with household incomes at or below 80 percent of the 
statewide median income or with household incomes at or below the threshold designated as 
low income by the Department of Housing and Community Development’s list of state income 
limits adopted pursuant to Section 50093. 
(2) “Low-income communities” are census tracts with median household incomes at or below 80 
percent of the statewide median income or with median household incomes at or below the 
threshold designated as low income by the Department of Housing and Community 
Development’s list of state income limits adopted pursuant to Section 50093. 
AB 1550: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201520160AB1550 
California Department of Education, Free or Reduced Priced Meals (FRMP) Data  
The California Department of Education maintains the complete data files pertaining to students 
who are eligible for FRMP.  FRPM data are collected annually and can also be used to assist 
Sustainable Communities applicants to define their underserved community.  Per SB 99 (Chapter 
359, Statutes of 2013), the State’s Active Transportation Program disadvantaged community’s 
definition includes low-income schools, where at least 75 percent of students are eligible to receive 
free or reduced meals under the National School Lunch Program. 
FRMP data files: https://www.cde.ca.gov/ds/sd/sd/filessp.asp 
SB 99: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201320140SB99  
IMPORTANT 
INFORMATION: 
Grant applicants are required 
to provide a justification in their 
grant application for how the 
project area meets the 
definition of underserved 
communities and a description 
of how the project will benefit 
these communities, as well as 
how these communities will be 
engaged throughout the 
project.   
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 63 of 115
100 of 448

--- page 101 ---
CalEnviroScreen Version 4.0 
CalEnviroScreen is a screening methodology that can be used to help identify California 
communities that are disproportionately burdened by multiple sources of pollution. 
CalEnviroScreen uses environmental, health, and socioeconomic information to produce a 
numerical score for each census tract in the state.  For purposes of SB 535 (De León, Statutes of 
2012), disadvantaged communities are defined as the top 25 percent scoring areas from 
CalEnviroScreen along with other areas with high amounts of pollution and vulnerable populations. 
https://oehha.ca.gov/calenviroscreen/report/calenviroscreen-40  
California Healthy Places Index (HPI) 
The California Healthy Places Index (HPI) is an 
interactive data and mapping tool that provides a 
detailed snapshot of the social determinants of 
health across California, mapped down to the 
Census tract level.  HPI provides comparison 
rankings of Census tracts statewide and an 
accompanying policy action guide.  Therefore, the 
HPI can be a useful tool in prioritizing areas with high 
levels of social and economic disadvantage for 
funding, policy, and planning interventions.HPI was 
developed by the Public Health Alliance of 
Southern California in collaboration with health 
departments and data experts across the state.  
Because the HPI focuses on the social and 
environmental conditions that contribute to health, 
policy makers and local agencies can use it to 
identify actionable policies that would improve 
health in their community, such as improving 
transportation access, housing affordability and quality, or access to parks and open space, HPI 
also incorporates “decision support layers” that can be overlaid to show additional indicators such 
as the California Department of Public Health’s (CDPH) climate change and health vulnerability 
indicators (see Appendix A. under Public Health Resources, CDPH Climate Change and Health 
Vulnerability Indicators for more information.). 
https://healthyplacesindex.org/ 
Understanding the HPI Score 
The HPI includes a composite score for each Census tract in the State.  The higher the score, the 
healthier the community conditions.  Each Census tract’s score is converted to a percentile, which 
allows it to be compared to other California Census tracts.  For example, an HPI percentile of 79 
indicates that a Census tract has healthier community conditions than 79 percent of the Census 
tracts in California.  HPI percentile rankings are further broken into quartiles, with percentiles below 
25 typically used to indicate disadvantaged communities.  Thus, lower scores can be used to 
demonstrate a community, or project/service area, is underserved for purposes of qualifying for the 
minimum threshold of 50 percent for underserved communities in this program.   
In addition to the composite score and percentile ranking, applicants can review the individual 
domain scores or indicators themselves and explain how their project will improve one or more of 
these public health challenges.  The numeric value and percentile ranking for these component 
indicators can be found either by using the live map or by accessing the data directly.  See the 
following table for HPI examples.   
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 64 of 115
101 of 448

--- page 102 ---
These HPI tools can be accessed at: 
Live Map:  https://map.healthyplacesindex.org/ 
HPI Learning Center:  https://www.healthyplacesindex.org/learning-center  
HPI Examples 
Indicator 
HDI Percentile 
How will the project improve this health challenge? 
Policy Action Area (Composite) Scores 
Neighborhood 
Percentile ranking of 
all neighborhood-
related indicators 
Demonstrate how this plan will address health and 
transportation challenges related to neighborhood 
indicators (park access, supermarket access, retail 
density, alcohol availability and tree canopy) 
Transportation 
Percentile ranking of 
all transportation 
indicators  
Demonstrate how this plan will address health and 
transportation challenges related automobile access 
and active commuting 
Individual Indicators 
Automobile Access 
XX percent 
Describe how plan will increase and improve 
transportation access to vital destinations, goods and 
services for those without auto access. 
Active Commuting 
XX percent 
Describe how the plan will improve transportation 
options for those without a car, specifically regarding 
active commuting by foot, bike, and transit in the 
project area. 
Park Access 
XX percent 
Demonstrate how project will improve transportation 
access to parks/ open space. 
 
For more information on the HPI, including how to calculate a score for your project area and 
suggested project types for improving public health, visit https://healthyplacesindex.org/. 
Senate Bill 1000 (Leyva, Chapter 587, Statutes of 2016) 
SB 1000 requires local jurisdictions to develop environmental justice elements in their next General 
Plan updates.  Specifically, the environmental justice element, or the environmental justice goals, 
policies, and objectives in other elements, must be adopted or reviewed upon the adoption or 
next revision of 2 or more elements concurrently on or after January 1, 2018.  Grant applicants are 
encouraged to describe efforts to comply with this new general plan requirement. 
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201520160SB1000  
California Environmental Justice Alliance SB 1000 Toolkit 
The California Environmental Justice Alliance SB 1000 Toolkit may help applicants describe their 
efforts to include the Environmental Justice element in their general plan updates. 
https://caleja.org/2017/09/sb-1000-toolkit-release/ 
Governor’s Office of Planning and Research (OPR) General Plan Guidelines 
Senate Bill 1000 Technical Advisory 
The OPR General Plan Guidelines for Senate Bill 1000 provides guidance for determining whether 
an Environmental Justice element or equivalent is required in a local jurisdiction, including 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 65 of 115
102 of 448

--- page 103 ---
identifying the location of disadvantaged communities (as defined in Gov. Code, § 65302, 
subdivision (h)(4)(A))23 as well as the nature of their environmental burdens, health risks, and needs. 
It also provides guidance for community engagement when addressing Environmental Justice 
disadvantaged communities; and goals, policies, and programs that address the unique and 
compounded health risks in disadvantaged communities and prioritize improvements and 
programs that meet the needs of disadvantaged communities. 
https://opr.ca.gov/docs/20200706-GPG_Chapter_4_EJ.pdf 
Displacement/Gentrification 
Transportation improvements, especially new rail lines and stations to low-income communities, 
can increase access to opportunities.  But they can also result in much higher property values and 
an increase in the cost of owning and renting property, inadvertently displacing existing residents 
and businesses.  Being forced to leave a home is a stressful, costly and traumatic life event, 
especially when affordable housing is so limited.  There is a growing recognition of tools and 
strategies that can be implemented alongside community investments to reduce displacement.   
Grant applicants are encouraged to reference the 2017 RTP Guidelines, Appendices K and L, for 
best practices in addressing displacement of low income and underserved communities. 
Transformative Climate Communities Program 
The State’s Transformative Climate Communities Program provides a framework for applicants to 
avoid displacement and may assist Sustainable Communities grant applicants in addressing 
displacement. 
https://sgc.ca.gov/meetings/council/2022/docs/20220428-
Item5a_TCC_Guidelines_Round%204_Technical%20Amendment_Clean.pdf  
Implementing Senate Bill 350 (De Leon, Chapter 547, Statues of 2015) and 
Community Needs Assessments 
Caltrans supports implementation of SB 350, the Clean Energy and Pollution Reduction Act of 2015, 
which establishes the State priority to reduce GHG emissions through the promotion of various 
clean energy policies, including widespread transportation electrification, for the benefit of all 
Californians.  Transforming the State’s transportation sector to support widespread electrification 
requires increasing access for all Californians, including low-income residents and those living in 
underserved communities, across a broad spectrum of clean transportation and mobility options to 
address community specific transportation needs.  Caltrans is leading efforts to identify low-income 
residents and underserved communities’ transportation and mobility needs through ongoing and 
potential future statewide planning processes. 
In support of this State goal, Sustainable Communities applicants are encouraged to conduct local 
Community Needs Assessments of low-income resident and underserved communities’ 
transportation and mobility needs to ensure feedback is incorporated in transportation planning.  
Community Needs Assessments include an evaluation of the following categories of transportation 
barriers and opportunities at the community level: (1) Access and Reliability; (2) Convenience; (3) 
Safety; (4) Demographic Characteristics and Community Setting; and, (5) Planning, Infrastructure 
and Investments. 
SB 350: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201520160SB350  
23 
https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displayText.xhtml?lawCode=GOV&division=1.&title=
7.&part=&chapter=3.&article=5. 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 66 of 115
103 of 448

--- page 104 ---
Final Guidance Document, Low-Income Barriers Study, Part B: Overcoming Barriers 
to Clean Transportation Access for Low-Income Residents 
In February 2018, the California Air Resources Board released the Final Guidance Document, Low-
Income Barriers Study, Part B: Overcoming Barriers to Clean Transportation Access for Low-Income 
Residents.  This Guidance Document provides background for SB 350 and may assist Sustainable 
Communities applicants with developing Community Needs Assessments as a standalone project 
or as part of a proposed project. 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/resources/documents/carb-barriers-report-final-guidance-document  
Public Health Resources 
The following tools can be used to further describe the community’s climate change and health 
vulnerability, and other needs, including helping to create qualitative descriptions of existing 
community health risks and vulnerabilities and how the proposal will address them.  
Community Health Needs Assessments 
Community Health Needs Assessments (CHNA) and implementation strategies are regularly 
conducted by county public health departments and are newly required of tax-exempt hospitals 
as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  These assessments and strategies 
create an important opportunity to improve the health of communities.  They ensure that hospitals 
have the information they need to provide community benefits that meet the needs of their 
communities.  They also provide an opportunity to improve coordination of hospital community 
benefits with other efforts to improve community health.  By federal statute, the CHNAs must take 
into account input from “persons who represent the broad interests of the community served by 
the hospital facility, including those with special knowledge of or expertise in public health.”  To 
avoid duplicative efforts, grant applicants are encouraged to contact and coordinate with local 
health departments/non-profit hospitals to take advantage of information that may have been 
collected as part of CHNA efforts, such as low-income resident and underserved communities’ 
transportation and mobility needs.  It is important for grant applicants to connect with these public 
health entities for both partnership building on transportation needs for under-resourced 
communities, but also to not over-burden those communities with multiple assessments or efforts 
asking similar questions. 
CDPH Climate Change and Health Vulnerability Indicators (CCHVIs) 
CDPH developed the Climate Change and Health Vulnerability indicators, narratives, and data to 
provide local health departments and partners the tools to better understand the people and 
places in their jurisdictions that are more susceptible to adverse health impacts associated with 
climate change, specifically extreme heat, wildfire, sea level rise, drought, and poor air quality.  
The assessment data can be used to screen and prioritize where to focus deeper analysis and plan 
for public health actions to increase resilience. 
The CCHVIs can be viewed on “CCHVIz”, CDPH’s interactive data visualization platform: 
https://discovery.cdph.ca.gov/ohe/CCHVIz/.  The CCHVIs have also been incorporated into the 
HPI as decision support layers, to better integrate addressing health outcomes associated with 
climate change and various social determinants of health. See above for more information on the 
HPI. 
https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/OHE/Pages/CC-Health-Vulnerability-Indicators.aspx  
CDPH Climate Change and Health Profile Reports (CHPRs) 
The CDPH Climate Change and Health Profile Reports are designed to help counties in California 
prepare for the health impacts related to climate change through adaptation planning.  The 
reports present projections for county and regional climate impacts, the climate-related health 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 67 of 115
104 of 448

--- page 105 ---
risks, and local populations that could be vulnerable to climate effects.  The information is based 
on available science compiled from previously published, state-sponsored research and plans. 
https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/OHE/Pages/ClimateHealthProfileReports.aspx 
CDPH Healthy Communities Data and Indicators Project (HCI) 
The goal of the HCI is to enhance public health by providing a standardized set of statistical 
measures, data, and tools that a broad array of sectors can use for planning healthy communities 
and evaluating the impact of plans, projects, policy, and environmental changes on community 
health.  The Healthy Community Framework identifies 20 key attributes (i.e., “aspirational goals”, 
such as “Safe, sustainable, and affordable transportation options” or “Access to affordable and 
safe opportunities for physical activity”) of a healthy community through all stages of life, clustered 
in five broad categories (i.e., “domains”, such as “Meets the Basic Needs of All” or “Quality and 
Sustainability of Environment”).  HCI data indicators, narratives, and visualizations are found here. 
https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/OHE/Pages/HCI-Search.aspx 
Integrated Transport and Health Impact Model (ITHIM) 
The California version of the Integrated Transport and Health Impact Model (ITHIM) is a planning 
tool that answers the question of "How much benefit or harm to human health can we expect by 
changing the mix of active and motorized travel across a county, region, or the entire State of 
California?"  ITHIM contrasts one travel pattern that serves as a reference with an alternative that 
has a different profile of fine particulate air pollution from vehicle exhaust, physical activity from 
walking and cycling, and injuries from traffic collisions. ITHIM calculates the change in deaths, years 
of life shortening and disability, and costs due to these changes in air pollution, physical activity, 
and traffic injuries. Grant applicants are encouraged to reference and utilize ITHIM to assess the 
health impacts their projects and programs. 
https://skylab.cdph.ca.gov/HealthyMobilityOptionTool-ITHIM/  
Health In All Policies (HiAP) Approach 
The California Health in All Policies (HiAP) initiative is a collaborative approach designed to improve 
the health of Californians by incorporating health, equity, and sustainability considerations into 
policymaking across sectors. The approach recognizes that chronic illness, climate change, health 
inequities, and increasing health care costs are interrelated and influenced by policies, programs, 
and investments across sectors. The initiative provides access to tools, resources and journal articles 
highlighting Health in All Policies approaches, techniques, and concepts from California and 
beyond. 
https://sgc.ca.gov/programs/healthandequity/hiap/approach.html  
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 68 of 115
105 of 448

--- page 106 ---
Active Community Engagement 
Sustainable Communities Competitive Grant applications must include an explanation of how 
local residents and community-based organizations will be meaningfully engaged in developing 
the final product, especially those from underserved and low-income communities, and how the 
final product will address community-identified needs.  Applicants are encouraged to implement, 
as applicable and appropriate the tips, best practices, and tools listed below: 
Community Engagement Best Practices 
• 
Refer to the following case studies that meaningfully demonstrate the expectations of 
equitable community engagement: 
 
o 
The community driven Carsharing and Mobility Hubs in Affordable Housing Pilots24 offer a 
strong example of equitable community engagement. The equity-based project 
incorporated community input from start to finish through community partnership building. 
o 
The Mobility Equity Framework25 should be used to assess and compare multimodal 
transportation options and centers community needs and shifts decision making power to 
the public.  For successful implementation examples, refer to: (1) California Air Resources 
Board (CARB) Clean Mobility Options Program26, (2) City of Portland, Oregon, Pricing 
Options for Equitable Mobility Project27, and North Carolina’s Transit Equity Campaign28.  
• 
Refer to Greenlining Institute’s Six Standards for Equitable Investment29 to implement 
qualitative measures of equity.  These standards feature a list of approaches, ranging from the 
minimum to transformative approach, depending on how much time, resources, and effort 
are generally required because equity approaches differ in each community context and 
conditions. 
• 
Refer to Greenlining Institute’s Making Equity Real in Mobility30, a toolkit of clear strategies and 
best practices to put equity in action 
• 
Clarify the type of engagement will be utilized, as seen in the Public Participation Spectrum31. 
Agencies and communities need to understand where engagement level falls from the 
“inform” to “empower” model.  
• 
Utilize a Participatory Budgeting (PB) planning process, as appropriate.  PB is a democratic 
approach to public spending that meaningfully and deeply engages people in government 
24 Carsharing and Mobility Hubs in Affordable Housing Pilots: 
https://greenlining.org/publications/reports/2021/clean-mobility-transportation-equity-report/  
25 Mobility Equity Framework: https://greenlining.org/publications/2018/mobility-equity-framework/    
26 CARB Clean Mobility Options Program: https://cleanmobilityoptions.org/about/  
27 Portland, Oregon, Pricing Options for Equitable Mobility Project: 
https://www.portland.gov/transportation/planning/pricing-options-equitable-mobility-poem  
28 North Carolina Transit Equity Campaign: https://bikedurham.org/transit   
29 Greenlining Institute’s Six Standards for Equitable Investment: https://greenlining.org/wp-
content/uploads/2021/03/Clean-Mobility-Equity-A-Playbook-Greenlining-Report-2021.pdf  
30 Greenlining Institute’s Making Equity Real in Mobility: https://greenlining.org/wp-
content/uploads/2019/08/Toolkit_Making-Equity-Real-in-Mobility-Pilot-Projects_Final-1.pdf   
31 Public Participation Spectrum: 
https://sustainingcommunity.wordpress.com/2017/02/14/spectrum-of-public-participation/  
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 69 of 115
106 of 448

--- page 107 ---
and the community.  During PB, community members democratically decide how to spend 
part of a public budget, enabling them to make the fiscal decisions that affect their lives and 
the health of their communities. 
• 
Seek existing community-based organizations or agencies that organize vulnerable 
populations, to be able to reach out and form collaborative relationships. 
• 
Involve local health departments which can assist in reaching  
community-based organizations and underserved and vulnerable community members.  
• 
Collaborate with underserved and vulnerable communities to design and implement 
programs, plans and policies.  Robust engagement of underserved and vulnerable 
communities in significant agency decisions brings about better decisions through increased 
input from different perspectives, increases buy-in and acceptance of decisions and support 
for their implementation.  
• 
Make opportunities for input accessible in terms of formats (pop-up workshops, temporary 
built-environment demonstrations, online, in public meetings, one on one, by mail, etc.), 
venues (at school and community events, community centers, libraries, transit hubs, etc.), 
hours (evening or weekend), and language (accessible to lay people and translated into the 
principal languages of the relevant communities, including accessible media such as caption 
videos).  
• 
Develop a written collaboration agreement or memorandum of understanding that defines 
respective roles, expectations, desired outcomes, and agreements for how to work together.  
• 
Establish an advisory group of representatives of vulnerable communities, including community 
leaders and give them worthwhile roles to design the public engagement process, so that 
community capacity is built during the collaboration process. 
• 
Conduct targeted outreach to community groups representing special needs populations, 
underserved communities and a variety of socio-economic groups through various methods. 
• 
Use a variety of outreach methods to optimize participation, such as creating and marketing 
user-friendly survey websites for public feedback, conducting surveys in multiple languages to 
collect input on local citizens’ priorities, and carrying out meetings at accessible times and 
meeting locations (e.g., using community group buildings, hosting pop-up workshops at public 
venues, etc.). 
Note:  The applicant should increase efforts beyond basic public noticing and public hearings.  
Options for demonstrating additional public outreach could include, but not limited to all the 
above. 
Additional Public Engagement Best Practices and Strategies  
Public engagement has adapted to the COVID-19 pandemic with surprising results .  Applicants will 
need to consider how to conduct public outreach and engagement during these times.  Below 
are some resources to help applicants evaluate and develop the best strategy for public 
engagement. 
• 
Caltrans Planning Horizons, “Digital Public Engagement and Transportation: Getting It Right – 
Theory, Techniques and Best Practices.”: Digital engagement can greatly increase the reach 
of public education and involvement; many public agencies have been surprised by the 
positive results and substantial increase in participants. 
https://youtu.be/85t9ibR2U7Q 
• 
The Great Pivot - Public Engagement in the Wake of COVID-19: Celia McAdam and Natalie 
Porter of AIM Consulting hosted a WTS seminar where they provided examples and strategies 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 70 of 115
107 of 448

--- page 108 ---
for public outreach, including diverse and underserved communities, during the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
 https://youtu.be/k2dPVqhIwvc  
• 
Digital Environmental Engagement Resource Catalogue:  The California Natural Resources 
Agency and the California Environmental Protection Agency developed a resource 
catalogue of online sessions on community engagement and equity. This resource catalogue 
comes from the “Online Environmental Engagement: Building Our Skills Together” conference. 
From June 2nd to 4th 2020, forty-nine panelists and approximately 1,500 registrants from 
California and across the nation gathered together online to discuss their successes, 
challenges and practical tips for online environmental engagement.   
https://resources.ca.gov/Outreach/Digital-Environmental-Engagement-Resource-Catalogue  
• 
Tips ad Tools to Engage Your Community in a Digital Environment:  Ensuring inclusive public 
participation is more challenging than ever because of physical distancing requirements, the 
digital divide, language access challenges and technology learning curves. With those 
challenges in mind, ILG offered a helpful webinar in July 2020, that featured innovative 
strategies for using high-tech and low-tech virtual platforms to engage residents on a variety 
of topics without meeting face-to face.  
https://www.ca-ilg.org/digitalengagement 
• 
Broadening Participation Using Online Engagement Tools:  This document provides examples 
and guidance to local governments interested in enhancing public participation outcomes 
with online engagement tools. 
https://www.ca-ilg.org/sites/main/files/file-
attachments/broadening_participation_via_online_tools_final_draft_1.pdf 
• 
The Guide to Remote Community Engagement:  A collection of resources designed to support 
cities that wish to create and maintain strong, institutionalized practices of community 
engagement during periods of remote working and in an increasingly digital world. Refer to 
the article, 5 Methods for Non-Internet Based Remote Community Engagement, for ideas on 
how to supplement traditional online public engagement efforts to be inclusive of residents 
lacking high-speed broadband internet access. 
https://medium.com/the-guide-to-remote-community-engagement 
• 
Virtual Public Involvement:  The U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway 
Administration, developed this innovation spotlight to provide an overview of virtual public 
involvement tools that enhance and broaden the reach of public engagement efforts by 
making participation more convenient, affordable, and enjoyable for greater numbers of 
people.  
https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/planning/public_involvement/vpi/ 
• 
Designing Parks Using Community-Based Planning:  This document inspires meaningful 
community engagement for future public projects. It shares methods learned through 
California's Statewide Park Development and Community Revitalization Program. These 
methods have been proven effective in urban, rural, and suburban settings. 
https://www.parksforcalifornia.org/planning_guide  
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 71 of 115
108 of 448

--- page 109 ---
Integrated Housing, Land Use, and Transportation Planning  
Development patterns directly impact GHG emissions, including those from transportation between 
jobs, services, and housing.  Improved coordination between housing and transportation can 
reduce commute times, increase transit ridership, lower vehicle miles traveled, lower pollution and 
GHG, provide greater economic opportunity, and other positive outcomes.  
Housing Element Compliance 
To support planning for housing California’s growing population, the State Department of Housing 
and Community Development (HCD) reviews each local government’s housing element of its 
general plan.   
• 
The housing element must plan to meet the local government’s existing and regional housing 
needs allocation and quantify and analyze the specific needs and resources available to 
address the housing needs.   
• 
A housing element can also provide a mechanism to adopt efficient land-use strategies, 
including those that address climate change and reduce vehicle miles traveled.  For example, 
strategies could include the promotion of affordable higher density, infill development, mixed-
use development, or transit-oriented development near transit stations or transit corridors. 
• 
Local governments are required to annually submit progress reports on the implementation of 
the housing element and provide a detail of production toward their projected housing needs.    
For more information on: 
o 
Housing element requirements, see the HCD Building Blocks website at  
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/planning-and-community-development/housing-
elements/building-blocks  
o 
Adopted housing element requirements, see the “Housing Element Process” section at  
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/planning-and-community-development/housing-elements  
o 
A local government’s housing element compliance, see  
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/planning-and-community-development/housing-open-data-
tools/housing-element-review-and-compliance-report  
o 
Annual Progress Reports, see https://www.hcd.ca.gov/planning-and-community-
development/annual-progress-reports   
Prohousing Designation Program 
The State 2019-20 Budget Act, Assembly Bill 101 enacted the Prohousing Designation Program 
(Program), which enables HCD to designate local jurisdictions as Prohousing when they 
demonstrate policies and planning that accelerate the production of housing. To receive the 
Prohousing Designation, local jurisdictions must meet basic threshold requirements related to 
compliance with the Housing Element Law and other state housing laws and demonstrate actions 
worth at least 30 points spread across each of four categories of Prohousing policies: favorable 
zoning and land use, acceleration of housing production timeframes, reduction of construction 
and development costs, and providing financial subsidies. The benefit to local jurisdictions 
receiving the Prohousing Designation includes being given an advantage such as priority 
processing or additional points when applying for several competitive funding programs, including: 
• 
Affordable Housing and Sustainable Communities 
• 
Infill Infrastructure Grant 
• 
Transformative Climate Communities 
• 
Transit and Intercity Rail Capital Program  
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 72 of 115
109 of 448

--- page 110 ---
Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) reducing policies and the Prohousing Enhancement Factors below 
help indicate that a project is within a jurisdiction supporting integrated housing, land use, and 
transportation planning. These policies show that a jurisdictions further supports state housing 
priorities in promoting affordable housing, reducing development barriers, and reducing vehicle 
miles travelled. 
Prohousing Enhancement Factors include policies that: 
• 
Represent one element of a unified, multi-faceted strategy to promote multiple planning 
objectives, such as efficient land use, access to public transportation, affordable housing, 
climate change solutions, and/or hazard mitigation. 
• 
Promote development consistent with the state planning priorities pursuant to Government 
Code section 65041.1. 
• 
Go beyond state law requirements in reducing displacement of lower income households and 
conserving existing housing stock that is affordable to lower income households. 
• 
Rezoning and other policies that support high-density development in Location Efficient 
Communities. 
VMT reducing policies may include projects located in jurisdictions that are/have:   
• 
Permitting missing middle housing uses (e.g., triplexes and fourplexes) by right in existing low-
density, single-family residential zones. 
• 
With density bonus programs which exceed statutory requirements by 10 percent or more. 
• 
Increasing allowable density in low-density, single-family residential areas beyond the 
requirements of state Accessory Dwelling Unit law (e.g., permitting more than one ADU or 
JADU per single-family lot). These policies shall be separate from any qualifying policies under 
category (ii) above. 
• 
Reducing or eliminating parking requirements for residential development as authorized by 
Government Code sections 65852.2; adopting vehicular parking ratios that are less than the 
relevant ratio thresholds at subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of Government Code section 
65915, subdivision (p)(1); or adopting maximum parking requirements at or less than ratios 
pursuant to Government Code section 65915, subdivision (p). 
• 
Zoning to allow for residential or mixed uses in one or more non-residential zones (e.g., 
commercial, light industrial). Qualifying non-residential zones do not include open space or 
substantially similar zones. 
• 
Modifying development standards and other applicable zoning provisions to promote greater 
development intensity. Potential areas of focus include floor area ratio; height limits; minimum 
lot or unit sizes; setbacks; and allowable dwelling units per acre. These policies must be 
separate from any qualifying policies under Category (ii) above. 
• 
Adopted a Nondiscretionary Local Approval Process for residential and mixed-use 
development in all zones permitting multifamily housing, established a Workforce Housing 
Opportunity Zone, as defined in Government Code section 65620, or a housing sustainability 
district, as defined in Government Code section 66200. 
• 
Zoning more sites for residential development or zoning sites at higher densities than is required 
to accommodate 150 percent of the minimum regional housing need allocation for the 
Lower-Income allocation in the current housing element cycle. 
• 
Priority permit processing or reduced plan check times for Accessory Dwelling Units 
(ADUs)/Junior Accessory Dwelling Units (JADUs), multifamily housing, or homes affordable to 
Lower- or Moderate-Income households. 
• 
Adopted ordinances or implemented other mechanisms that result in less restrictive 
requirements than Government Code sections 65852.2 and 65852.22 to reduce barriers for 
property owners to create ADUs/JADUs. Examples of qualifying policies include, but are not 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 73 of 115
110 of 448

--- page 111 ---
limited to, development standards improvements, permit processing improvements, 
dedicated ADU/JADU staff, technical assistance programs, and pre-approved ADU/JADU 
design packages. 
• 
Measures that reduce costs for transportation-related infrastructure or programs that 
encourage active modes of transportation or other alternatives to automobiles. Qualifying 
policies include, but are not limited to, publicly funded programs to expand sidewalks or 
protect bike/micro-mobility lanes; creation of on-street parking for bikes; transit-related 
improvements; or establishment of carshare programs. 
• 
Established pre-approved or prototype plans for missing middle housing types (e.g., triplexes 
and fourplexes) in low-density, single-family residential areas. 
• 
Documented practice of streamlining housing development at the project level, such as by 
enabling a by-right approval process or by utilizing statutory and categorical exemptions as 
authorized by applicable law (Pub. Resources Code, sections 21155.1, 21155.4, 21159.24, 
21159.25; Gov. Code, section 65457; Cal Code Regs., tit. 14, sections 15303, 15332; Pub. 
Resources Code, sections 21094.5, 21099, 21155.2, 21159.28). 
• 
Policies that represent one element of a unified, multi-faceted strategy to promote multiple 
planning objectives, such as efficient land use, access to public transportation, affordable 
housing, climate change solutions, and/or hazard mitigation. 
• 
Policies that promote development consistent with the state planning priorities pursuant to 
Government Code section 65041.1. 
• 
Rezoning and other policies that support high-density development in Location Efficient 
Communities. 
For more information on the Prohousing Designation Program, email HCD at 
ProhousingPolicies@hcd.ca.gov or visit the following HCD websites:  
Program Website  
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/planning-and-community-development/prohousing-designation-
program  
Prohousing Designation Application Status List   
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/sites/default/files/docs/planning-and-community/Prohousing-Public-
Application-Tracker.xlsx  
Prohousing Designation Program FAQs  
hcd.ca.gov/community-development/prohousing/docs/ProhousingFAQ.pdf  
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 74 of 115
111 of 448

--- page 112 ---
Promote the Region’s RTP SCS/APS, State Planning Priorities, and Climate 
Adaptation Goals 
SB 1 - The Road Repair and Accountability Act of 2017 (Beall, Chapter 5, Statutes 
of 2017) 
The intent of additional Sustainable Communities grant funding, pursuant to SB 1 - The Road Repair 
and Accountability Act of 2017, is to encourage local and regional planning that furthers state 
goals, including but not limited to, the goals and best practices cited in the RTP Guidelines.  
Competitive applications will incorporate these cutting-edge planning practices into their 
proposed planning projects. 
SB 1: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201720180SB1 
2017 RTP Guidelines (Appendix K, Page 273; Appendix L, Page 309) 
The California Transportation Commission adopted the 2017 RTP Guidelines for RTPAs and 2017 RTP 
Guidelines for MPOs which includes Appendix K – Promoting Health and Health Equity in MPO RTPs 
and Appendix L – Planning Practice Examples.  These appendices highlight planning practices that 
are undertaken by large, medium, and small MPOs in both rural and urban areas throughout the 
State.   
https://catc.ca.gov/-/media/ctc-media/documents/rtp-2017-guidelines-mpos-011817-a11y.pdf    
SB 375 (Steinberg, Chapter 728, Statutes of 2008) 
Caltrans supports SB 375 RTP SCS/APS efforts.  Successful applications must be compatible with an 
existing adopted SCS/APS, where applicable, that meets the region’s GHG targets, and must 
strongly support and aim to implement regional SCS/APS efforts.  The SCS/APS planning process is 
intended to help communities reduce transportation related GHG emissions, coordinate land use 
and transportation planning, and assist local and regional governments in creating sustainable 
communities for residents throughout the State.   
Although most rural areas of the State are not subject to SB 375 SCS/APS requirements, Caltrans still 
promotes the development of sustainable communities in these areas of the State and efforts to 
match GHG reduction targets and other goals embodied in SCS/APSs under SB 375.  Eligible rural 
agencies are strongly encouraged to apply for Sustainable Communities Competitive Grants.  
Information on SB 375-related planning efforts: 
https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/our-work/topics/sustainable-communities  
SB 375: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=200720080SB375  
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 75 of 115
112 of 448

--- page 113 ---
Complete Streets and Smart Mobility Framework 
In recognition that walking, biking, transit, and passenger rail are integral to our vision of delivering 
a brighter future for all through a world-class transportation network, Caltrans also supports 
Complete Streets and the Smart Mobility Framework (SMF).  In locations with current and/or future 
pedestrian, bicycle, or transit needs, Caltrans encourages applicants to consider the tools and 
techniques contained in the SMF as well as typical components of Complete Streets.  Specifically, 
this might include how the project addresses components of community design, regional 
accessibility, place types, and priority activities to achieve smart mobility outcomes, community 
transition, and associated multimodal performance measures for the appropriate context of the 
problem.  Information on these efforts can be found at: 
Complete Streets 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/transportation-planning/division-of-transportation-planning/active-
transportation-and-complete-streets  
Smart Mobility Framework 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/transportation-planning/division-of-transportation-planning/active-
transportation-and-complete-streets/smart-mobility-framework  
Climate Ready Transportation and Climate Adaptation Planning 
Through the Grant Program, Caltrans supports the State’s broader efforts to help ensure our 
transportation infrastructure is climate-ready.  In order to prioritize these investments, Governor 
Gavin Newsom signed Executive Order (EO) N-19-19 on September 20, 2019 to redouble the state’s 
“efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate the impacts of climate change while 
building a sustainable, inclusive economy.” The EO lists California’s ambitious and essential climate 
goals to transition to a healthier, more sustainable and more inclusive economy, including: 
• 
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030 
• 
Providing 100 percent of the State’s electricity from clean energy sources by 2045 
• 
Reducing methane emissions and hydrofluorocarbon gases by 40 percent 
• 
Adding five million zero-emission vehicles to the State’s roads by 2030 
To help achieve these goals, the EO directs the California State Transportation Agency to leverage 
over $5 billion in annual state transportation spending toward transportation construction, 
operations, and maintenance to lower fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from 
transportation.  This includes strategies for lowering vehicle miles traveled, such as supporting 
housing development near available jobs, and supporting active modes of transportation such as 
biking and walking that also benefit public health.  The EO specifically requires that the State 
Transportation Agency also work to mitigate increased transportation costs for low-income 
communities. 
https://www.gov.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/9.20.19-Climate-EO-N-19-19.pdf 
Integrated Climate Adaptation and Resiliency Program 
Senate Bill 246 (Wieckowski, Chapter 606, Statutes of 2015) established the Integrated Climate 
Adaptation and Resiliency Program (ICARP) within the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research 
to coordinate regional and local efforts with State climate adaptation strategies (Public Resources 
Code Section 71354). Grant applicants may refer to the ICARP website to explore the State 
Adaptation Clearinghouse, a centralized source of information and resources to assist decision 
makers at the state, regional, and local levels when planning for and implementing climate 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 76 of 115
113 of 448

--- page 114 ---
adaptation projects to promote resiliency across California. Caltrans is coordinating with ICARP 
staff on the OPR Climate Adaptation Planning Grant Program.  
ICARP Website: https://opr.ca.gov/climate/icarp/   
SB 246: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/billNavClient.xhtml?bill_id=201520160SB246  
Adaptation Planning Grants: https://www.opr.ca.gov/climate/icarp/grants/adaptation-planning-
grant.html  
California Adaptation Clearinghouse 
The Adaptation Clearinghouse serves as a centralized source of information that provides the 
resources necessary to guide decision makers at the state, regional, and local levels when 
planning for and implementing climate adaptation projects to promote resiliency to climate 
change in California. 
https://resilientca.org/  
ResilientCA Adaptation Planning Map (RAP-Map) 
The Integrated Climate Adaptation and Resiliency Program (ICARP)—supported through the 
Governor’s Office of Planning & Research—contains a statewide inventory of local government 
adaptation and resiliency planning efforts. It is an open data tool, to inventory local government 
climate risk, adaptation, and resiliency planning efforts across the state and track progress towards 
statewide adaptation planning goals. 
https://resilientca.org/rap-map/ 
Community Climate Resiliency 
Grant applicants are encouraged to consider if the surrounding community is experiencing any 
specific climate vulnerabilities and how the proposed planning project aims to address specific 
concerns.  Grant applicants should also describe how potential climate impacts are taken into 
consideration in the proposed planning project, such as the incorporation of natural infrastructure, 
and, if applicable, how the project conforms with the local implementation of SB 379 (Jackson, 
Statutes of 2015), Government Code Section 65302(g)(4), where cities and counties are required to 
address climate adaptation and resiliency strategies in the safety element of their general plan. 
Defining Vulnerable Communities in an Adaptation Context, OPR Resource Guide 
The Governor’s Office of Planning and Research, with input from the Integrated Climate Action 
and Resiliency Program (ICARP) Technical Advisory Council, developed a resource guide for 
practitioners to use when first considering how to define vulnerable communities in an adaptation 
context.  The document includes: (1) The ICARP Technical Advisory Council’s definition of climate-
vulnerable communities, (2) A summary of existing statewide assessment tools that can be used to 
identify vulnerable communities in a climate adaptation context, including a crosswalk with the 
indicators that are required elements of an SB 1000 (Leyva, Statutes of 2016) analysis; (3) Additional 
indicators that could be used to assess underlying vulnerability on a case-by-case basis; (4) A list of 
process guides that can serve to aid agencies undertaking efforts to define vulnerable 
communities. 
https://opr.ca.gov/climate/icarp/vulnerable-communities.html   
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 77 of 115
114 of 448

--- page 115 ---
State Guidance for Adaptation Planning 
2017 General Plan Guidelines, Safety Element (Ch. 4) 
The General Plan Guidelines set out each statutory requirement in detail, provides OPR 
recommended policy language, and includes online links to city and county general plans that 
have adopted similar policies. The guidelines include information on how to consider climate 
change during general plan development/updates. In accordance with Senate Bill 379, general 
plans must address climate adaptation and resilience within the Safety element. Local 
governments are required to include a climate change vulnerability assessment, measures to 
address vulnerabilities, and a comprehensive hazard mitigation and emergency response strategy.  
https://opr.ca.gov/docs/OPR_COMPLETE_7.31.17.pdf 
California Climate Adaptation Planning Guide – local/regional agency guidance 
The Adaptation Planning Guide provides guidance to support regional and local communities in 
proactively addressing the unavoidable consequences of climate change.  It provides a step-by-
step process for local and regional climate vulnerability assessment and adaptation strategy 
development. 
 https://resilientca.org/apg/ 
Planning and Investing for a Resilient California – State Agency guidance 
Introduces a four-step process for building resilience and a set of resilient decision-making principles 
for state agencies when considering climate-informed infrastructure investments. These steps 
include identifying how climate change could affect a project or plan, conducting an analysis of 
climate risks, making a climate-informed decision, and tracking and monitoring progress. 
https://www.opr.ca.gov/docs/20180313-Building_a_Resilient_CA.pdf  
Ocean Protection Council Sea-Level Rise Guidance 
The State of California Sea-Level Rise Guidance reflects advances in sea-level rise science and 
addresses the needs of state agencies and local governments as they incorporate sea-level rise 
into their planning, permitting, and investment decisions.  
http://www.opc.ca.gov/webmaster/ftp/pdf/agenda_items/20180314/Item3_Exhibit-
A_OPC_SLR_Guidance-rd3.pdf 
California Coastal Commission Sea Level Rise Policy Guidance 
This guide provides an overview of the best available science on sea level rise for California and 
recommended methodology for addressing sea level rise in Coastal Commission planning and 
regulatory actions. 
https://documents.coastal.ca.gov/assets/slr/guidance/2018/0_Full_2018AdoptedSLRGuidanceUpd
ate.pdf 
Coastal Adaptation Planning Guidance for Critical Infrastructure  
This guidance from the California Coastal Commission addresses two main types of infrastructure – 
transportation and water – and presents six key considerations for successful adaptation planning. 
These considerations are accompanied by recommendations for stakeholders on how to plan 
effectively for the impacts of sea level rise on coastal infrastructure, a description of the regulatory 
framework that applies to adaptation planning for infrastructure. 
https://documents.coastal.ca.gov/assets/slr/SLR%20Guidance_Critical%20Infrastructure_12.6.2021.p
df   
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 78 of 115
115 of 448

--- page 116 ---
Coastal Adaptation Planning Guidance and Environmental Justice Considerations  
The Environmental Justice Policy is the Coastal Commission’s framework for identifying and 
analyzing project impacts on underserved and disadvantaged communities. The policy is designed 
to achieve more meaningful engagement, equitable process, effective communication and 
stronger coastal protection benefits for all Californians. 
https://documents.coastal.ca.gov/assets/env-justice/CCC_EJ_Policy_FINAL.pdf 
Coastal Adaptation Planning Guidance and Tribal Consultation 
The Coastal Commission adopted a Tribal Consultation Policy, which is intended to guide outreach 
and collaboration. It also helps to inform permit applicants how the Commission will review coastal 
development permit applications to ensure adequate Tribal consultation occurs.  
https://documents.coastal.ca.gov/assets/env-justice/tribal-
consultation/CCC%20Tribal%20Consultation%20Policy%20Adopted%208.8.2018.pdf 
Climate Data Sources and Adaptation Plans 
Cal-Adapt 
Cal-Adapt is the repository for State-endorsed climate change projections, developed through the 
State’s Climate Change Assessment efforts. Cal-Adapt offers free public access to peer-reviewed 
data that show climate change impacts on state infrastructure, communities, and natural 
resources. Find tools, data, and resources to conduct research, develop adaptation plans and 
build applications. 
https://cal-adapt.org/ 
Climate Action Plans 
Many California cities and counties are developing Climate Action Plans to reduce their GHG 
emissions. Agencies may have existing plans that include strategies or insight on potential 
approaches to implementing climate change considerations on the transportation network. CARB 
has created a webmap that can be used to identify plans created, GHG inventory information, 
GHG reduction targets, local strategies planned to meet these targets, and more. The second 
website provides a host of resources, including example Climate Action Plans and templates. This 
information can also be found on the Adaptation Clearinghouse.  
https://webmaps.arb.ca.gov/capmap/  
http://www.ca-ilg.org/climate-action-plans 
Caltrans Vulnerability Assessments   
To ensure the resiliency of the State Highway System, Caltrans conducted vulnerability assessments 
statewide. These Summary Reports and associated Technical Reports describe climate change 
effects in each of Caltrans’ 12 districts.  
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/transportation-planning/division-of-transportation-planning/air-
quality-and-climate-change/2019-climate-change-vulnerability-assessments. 
Local Vulnerability Assessments  
If local vulnerability assessments have been developed along a corridor, their data may be 
interwoven with Cal-Adapt data, Caltrans Climate Change Vulnerability Assessments, and/or other 
vulnerability information for more granular analysis of specific local areas, particularly those in more 
densely populated areas or with a high density of affected transportation assets. Many of these 
assessments and case studies can be found on the Integrated Climate Action and Resiliency 
Program (ICARP) Case Studies and Examples search page (https://resilientca.org). Some transit 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 79 of 115
116 of 448

--- page 117 ---
and rail providers in California have also developed vulnerability assessments for their 21 networks 
as well, which may contain detailed analysis that could be useful.  
Caltrans Climate Change Adaptation Strategy Report 
Through this report, Caltrans is aiming to adopt a leadership role in the process of climate change 
adaptation through developing a “how to” guide for integrating climate change adaptation into 
agency activities and decision-making. This Adaptation Strategy Report initially outlines an overall 
“pathway” for adopting recommendations on how Caltrans should mainstream adaptation 
strategies throughout functional areas and develop an approach to coordinate with partner 
agencies. Recognizing the important role of transit and active transportation facilities and routes, 
this report will develop solutions for all modes of transportation. This report also has a section 
focused on the incorporation of climate change considerations into System Planning documents. 
https://transplanning.onramp.dot.ca.gov/downloads/transplanning/files/suscommplan/Climate%2
0Adaptation%20Report_May_2020.pdf 
Other Relevant Datasets for Climate Planning 
Protecting Californians from Extreme Heat: A State Action Plan to Build Community Resilience 
A plan that outlines a strategic and comprehensive set of state actions to address extreme heat.  
https://resources.ca.gov/-/media/CNRA-Website/Files/Initiatives/Climate-Resilience/2022-Final-
Extreme-Heat-Action-Plan.pdf  
 
California Water Action Plan 
A roadmap for the first five years of the state’s journey toward sustainable water management. 
http://resources.ca.gov/docs/california_water_action_plan/Final_California_Water_Action_Plan.pd
f 
CALFIRE Fire Hazard Severity Zones 
CALFIRE has mapped areas of significant fire hazards based on fuels, terrain, weather, and other 
factors, forming wildfire severity zones. There are three levels of hazard in the State Responsibility 
Areas: moderate, high, and very high. This analysis can provide further understanding of wildfire risk 
at the potential project location.  
https://osfm.fire.ca.gov/divisions/community-wildfire-preparedness-and-mitigation/wildland-
hazards-building-codes/fire-hazard-severity-zones-maps/ 
California Department of Conservation – Landslide Hazards 
The California Landslide Inventory is an ongoing project to make the California Geological Survey 
landslide information publicly accessible. 
http://www.conservation.ca.gov/cgs/geologic_hazards/landslides 
State Wildlife Action Plan 
The State Wildlife Action Plan includes conservation actions that respond to current and future 
challenges with objectives and goals that are specific, measurable, and time bound. 
https://www.wildlife.ca.gov/SWAP/Final 
CDFW Regional Conservation Investment Strategies   
This program encourages a voluntary, non-regulatory regional planning process intended to result 
in higher-quality conservation outcomes and includes an advance mitigation tool. The Program 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 80 of 115
117 of 448

--- page 118 ---
uses a science-based approach to identify conservation and enhancement opportunities that, if 
implemented, will help California's declining and vulnerable species by protecting, creating, 
restoring, and reconnecting habitat and may contribute to species recovery and adaptation to 
climate change and resiliency. 
https://www.wildlife.ca.gov/conservation/planning/regional-conservation 
CDFW Natural Communities Conservation Plans  
A Natural Communities Conservation Plan identifies and provides for the regional protection of 
plants, animals, and their habitats, while allowing compatible and appropriate economic activity. 
https://www.wildlife.ca.gov/conservation/planning/nccp 
California Sustainable Freight Action Plan 
In July 2015, Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. issued Executive Order B-32-15, which provides a vision 
for California’s transition to a more efficient transport system.  This transition of California’s freight 
transport system is essential to supporting the State’s economic development in coming decades 
while reducing harmful pollution affecting many California communities.  As a key first step, the 
Governor’s Executive Order directs the California State Transportation Agency, California 
Environmental Protection Agency, Natural Resources Agency, California Air Resources Board, 
California Department of Transportation, California Energy Commission, and Governor’s Office of 
Business and Economic Development to develop a California Sustainable Freight Action Plan 
(Action Plan), by July 2016.  This Action Plan is an unprecedented effort, intended to integrate 
investments, policies, and programs across several State agencies to help realize a singular vision 
for California’s freight transport system.  The Action Plan provides a recommendation on a high-
level vision and broad direction to the Governor to consider for State agencies to utilize when 
developing specific investments, policies, and programs related to the freight transport system that 
serves our state transportation, environmental, and economic interests. Competitive grant 
applications will highlight how their planning effort will support this Action Plan. 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/transportation-planning/division-of-transportation-planning/strategic-
freight-planning   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 81 of 115
118 of 448

--- page 119 ---
APPENDIX B.  SAMPLE APPLICATION PACKAGE 
The Grant Application Guide and all fillable application documents can be found on the 
Sustainable Transportation Planning Grant website.  
• Application Checklist, Cover Sheet, and Signature Page 
• Application Narratives for Sustainable Communities, Climate 
Adaptation Planning, and Strategic Partnerships 
• Scope of Work and Checklist 
• Cost and Schedule and Checklist 
• Third-Party In-Kind Valuation Plan and Checklist 
• Local Resolution and Checklist 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 82 of 115
119 of 448

--- page 120 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 83 of 115
120 of 448

--- page 121 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 84 of 115
121 of 448

--- page 122 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 85 of 115
122 of 448

--- page 123 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 86 of 115
123 of 448

--- page 124 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 87 of 115
124 of 448

--- page 125 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 88 of 115
125 of 448

--- page 126 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 89 of 115
126 of 448

--- page 127 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 90 of 115
127 of 448

--- page 128 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 91 of 115
128 of 448

--- page 129 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 92 of 115
129 of 448

--- page 130 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 93 of 115
130 of 448

--- page 131 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 94 of 115
131 of 448

--- page 132 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 95 of 115
132 of 448

--- page 133 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 96 of 115
133 of 448

--- page 134 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 97 of 115
134 of 448

--- page 135 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 98 of 115
135 of 448

--- page 136 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 99 of 115
136 of 448

--- page 137 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 100 of 115
137 of 448

--- page 138 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 101 of 115
138 of 448

--- page 139 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 102 of 115
139 of 448

--- page 140 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 103 of 115
140 of 448

--- page 141 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 104 of 115
141 of 448

--- page 142 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 105 of 115
142 of 448

--- page 143 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 106 of 115
143 of 448

--- page 144 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 107 of 115
144 of 448

--- page 145 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 108 of 115
145 of 448

--- page 146 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 109 of 115
146 of 448

--- page 147 ---
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 110 of 115
147 of 448

--- page 148 ---
APPENDIX C.  CALTRANS/REGIONAL AGENCY 
BOUNDARIES MAP 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 111 of 115
148 of 448

--- page 149 ---
APPENDIX D.  CALTRANS DISTRICT CONTACT LIST 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 112 of 115
149 of 448

--- page 150 ---
Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grants District  
Lead Contact and Native American Liaison Contact List 
 
DISTRICT 
LEAD CONTACT(S) 
NATIVE AMERCAN 
LIAISON CONTACT(S) 
MPO/RTPA 
DISTRICT 1 
1656 Union Street 
P.O. Box 3700 
Eureka, CA  
95502 
Tatiana Ahlstrand  
(707) 684-6884 
Email: 
Tatiana.Ahlstrand@dot.ca.gov 
Kathleen Sartorius 
(707) 601-7978 
Email: 
Kathleen.Sartorius@dot.ca.gov 
Del Norte LTC 
Humboldt CAOG 
Lake CCAPC 
Mendocino COG 
DISTRICT 2 
1657 Riverside Drive 
Redding, CA  
96001 
Kathy Grah  
Office:(530) 229-0517 
Cell: (530) 782-3152 
Email: Kathy.Grah@dot.ca.gov 
Kendee Vance  
(530) 225-3574 
Email: 
Kendee.Vance@dot.ca.gov 
• Lassen CTC 
• Tehama CTC 
• Modoc LTC 
• Trinity CTC 
• Plumas CTC 
• Siskiyou CLTC 
• Shasta RTA 
DISTRICT 3 
703 B Street 
Marysville, CA 95901 
El Dorado, Placer, Sacramento, 
Sutter, Yolo, and Yuba Counties 
Sukhi Johal  
(530) 565-3885 
Email: Sukhi.Johal@dot.ca.gov 
Butte, Colusa, Lake Tahoe Basin, 
Glenn, Nevada, and Sierra Counties 
Kevin Yount  
(530) 513-0584 
Email: Kevin.Yount@dot.ca.gov 
Angelina Healy  
(530) 720-9449 
Email: 
Angelina.Healy@dot.ca.gov 
• Butte CAG 
• Sierra LTC 
• Colusa CTC 
• Glenn CTC 
• El Dorado CTC 
• Nevada CTC 
• Placer CTPA 
• Sacramento Area 
COG 
• Tahoe MPO 
DISTRICT 4 
111 Grand Avenue 
P.O. Box 23660 
Oakland, CA 94623-
0660 
Becky Frank  
(510) 960-0883 
Email: Becky.Frank@dot.ca.gov 
Stephen Conteh  
(510) 960-0887 
Email: Stephen.Conteh@dot.ca.gov 
Stephen Conteh  
(510) 960-0887 
Email: 
Stephen.Conteh@dot.ca.gov  
• Metropolitan 
Transportation  
Commission 
DISTRICT 5 
50 Higuera Street 
San Luis Obispo, CA 
93401-5415 
Jenna Schudson  
(805) 835-6432 
Email: Jenna.Schudson@dot.ca.gov 
John Olejnik 
(805) 748-1787 
Email: 
John.Olejnik@dot.ca.gov 
• Monterey TAMC 
• Santa Cruz CCRTC 
• San Benito COG 
• Assoc. of Monterey 
Co. Bay Area Govts 
• Santa Barbara CAG 
• San Luis Obispo COG 
DISTRICT 6 
1352 W. Olive 
Avenue 
P.O. Box 12616 
Fresno, CA 93778-
2616 
Lorena Mendibles  
(559) 840-6066 
Email:Lorena.Mendibles@dot.ca.gov 
 
Edgar Hernandez 
(559) 981-7436 
Email:Edgar.Hernandez@dot.ca.gov 
  
Lorena Mendibles 
(559) 840-6066 
Email: 
Lorena.Mendibles@dot.ca.gov 
• Fresno COG 
• Tulare CAG 
• Kern COG 
• Kings CAG 
• Madera CTC 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 113 of 115
150 of 448

--- page 151 ---
Caltrans Sustainable Transportation Planning Grants District  
Lead Contact and Native American Liaison Contact List 
 
DISTRICT 
LEAD CONTACT(S) 
NATIVE AMERCAN 
LIAISON CONTACT(S) 
MPO/RTPA 
DISTRICT 7 
100 S. Main Street 
Los Angeles, CA 
90012 
 
James Santiago 
(213) 310-2804 
Email: James.Santiago@dot.ca.gov 
Not applicable 
• Southern California 
Association of 
Governments 
DISTRICT 8 
464 W. 4th Street 
Mail Station 722 
San Bernardino, CA 
92401 
Ricky Rivers 
(909) 806-3298 
Email: Ricky.Rivers@dot.ca.gov 
Stephanie Gallegos 
(909) 383-4057 
Email: 
Stephanie.Gallegos@dot.ca.gov   
Lorna Foster 
(909) 501-5759 
Email: 
Lorna.Foster@dot.ca.gov  
• Southern California 
Association of 
Governments 
DISTRICT 9 
500 S. Main Street 
Bishop, CA 93514 
Catherine Carr 
(707) 874-8318 
Email: Catherine.Carr@dot.ca.gov 
Emilee Mullen 
(707) 784-4260 
Email: 
Emilee.Mullen@dot.ca.gov  
• Inyo LTC 
• Mono LTC 
• Eastern Kern (COG) 
DISTRICT 10 
1976 E. Dr. Martin 
Luther King 
Boulevard 
P.O. Box 2048 
Stockton, CA 95201 
Mountain Counties 
Gregoria Ponce 
(209) 483-7234 
Email: Gregoria.Ponce@dot.ca.gov 
Merced, San Joaquin, Stanislaus 
Counties 
Tom Dumas  
(209) 941-1921 
Email: Tom.Dumas@dot.ca.gov 
 
Paul Bauldry 
(209) 948-7647 
Email: 
Paul.Bauldry@dot.ca.gov 
Gregoria Ponce 
(209) 483-7234 
Email: 
Gregoria.Ponce@dot.ca.gov 
• Alpine County LTC 
• Amador CTC  
• Calaveras COG 
• Mariposa LTC 
• Merced CAG 
• Tuolumne CTC 
• San Joaquin COG 
• Stanislaus COG 
DISTRICT 11 
4050 Taylor Street 
Mail Station 240 
San Diego, CA 
92110 
Omar Flores 
(619) 985-2124 
Email: Omar.Flores@dot.ca.gov 
Rafael Reyes 
(619) 208-1104 
Email:  
Rafael.Reyes@dot.ca.gov  
• San Diego Association 
of Governments 
• Southern California 
Association of 
Governments 
DISTRICT 12 
1750 E. 4th Street 
Santa Ana, CA 
92705 
Eric Chau 
(657) 328-6268 
Email: Eric.E.Chau@dot.ca.gov 
Not applicable 
• Southern California 
Association of 
Governments 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 114 of 115
151 of 448

--- page 152 ---
California Department of Transportation 
Division of Transportation Planning 
1120 N Street 
Sacramento, CA 95814 
https://dot.ca.gov/programs/transportation-planning 
City of San Mateo 
Agreement Number 74A1675 
Attachment III
Page 115 of 115
152 of 448

--- page 153 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4679
File ID: 25-9545
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Foster City School District Sandbag Station — Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Ratify an inter-agency agreement with the San Mateo Foster City School District allowing the City to deploy a sandbag 
station in the parking lot of the Turnbull Child Development Center in the North Central neighborhood. 
BACKGROUND:
The City annually deploys multiple sandbag stations for community members to fill sandbags for flood protection needs. 
Although the City has expanded its sandbag stations to more locations in recent years, Council members have expressed 
concern at the lack of a station in the North Central neighborhood. Staff was recently able to negotiate an agreement with 
the San Mateo Foster City School District (District) to deploy a sandbag station in the Turnbull Child Development Center 
parking lot at the corner of Humboldt St and Indian Ave. While the station will be temporary due to the District's need for 
the full parking lot in the coming months for upcoming facility construction activities, and will only be available to the 
public Monday through Friday during the day, it provides a localized site for the North Central community to fill sandbags. 
Staff has been advertising the station’s availability to the public since its deployment during the week of January 7.  
In order to expedite deployment of the station to maximize the limited time for which it may be available in the current 
rainy season, the City Manager executed the agreement after District approval and staff is requesting Council to ratify the 
inter-agency agreement after-the-fact. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is sufficient funding in the Public Works operating budget to deploy and maintain the sandbag station. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of this interagency agreement is exempt from CEQA review under the “common sense” exemption; in that it can 
be seen with certainty that there is no possibility that the establishment of a temporary sandbag station at the Turnbull 
Child Development Center parking lot may have a significant effect on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15061(b)(3).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 — Executed Agreement with San Mateo Foster City School District
153 of 448

--- page 154 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Katherine Sheehan, Deputy Director 
ksheehan@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7303
154 of 448

--- page 155 ---


--- page 156 ---


--- page 157 ---


--- page 158 ---


--- page 159 ---


--- page 160 ---


--- page 161 ---
Docusign Envelope ID: DCD1A8C1-0123-49AB-9678-6CFA7B92C242

SAN MATEO FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT:

DocuSigned by:
By: | Patnick Coffury Dated: 12/20/2024
82C8FEBCBB462...

Patrick K Gat ney
Deputy Superintendent

CITY OF SAN MATEO:

L| yi ; 1/2/2025
By: Ale. (kia Dated:
Alex Khojikian

City Manager

Approved as to form:

Prasanna UW, Kasih for Dated: 7/31/2024

Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney

161 of 448


--- page 162 ---
Docusign Envelope ID: DCD1A8C1-0123-49AB-9678-6CFA7B92C242

EXHIBIT A

—
ob Leatede ane hrwtombell

Staff Parking Only

: ; ‘ t rat
‘ ; r t :
A ; ~~, = } ;

pricutioadsenedad

:
:
:
$93
t
;
i
Eh
4
4
:

Indian

—

UTE
Historical Imagery mode temporarily disables 3D rt K »
buildings for optimal viewing.

x

162 of 448


--- page 163 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 24-9376
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 3, 2025 
SUBJECT:
PW Facilities On-Call General Contracting Services – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve Contract Change Order No. 1 to the construction contract with Y3C, Inc. in the amount of $160,000 to provide on-
call contracting services to Public Works Facilities through Fiscal Year 2024-25, increasing the total contract amount to 
$250,000; and authorize the Public Works Director to execute the change order in substantially the form presented. 
BACKGROUND:
Public Works staff is requesting general contracting services to support the Public Works Facilities Division with General 
Maintenance projects and to provide off-hour emergency response. In addition to routine maintenance, the division is 
currently overseeing more than twenty projects that require general contracting services. These projects are essential to 
public health, safety, and welfare, and include, but are not limited to, the following:
1. City Hall Concrete Slab Removal for Soils Investigation
2. City Hall Permit Counter Reconfiguration
3. Collapsed lateral at 2nd/ECR Garage 
4. Poplar Creek Water Intrusion Investigation
5. Poplar Creek Infestation Assessment
6. Los Prados Light Failure Assessment
7. Differential Settlement at Lakeshore Park
8. Differential Settlement at Indian Springs
9. Various plumbing work at City parks (i.e., Seal Point Park)
10. Beresford Recreation Center Metal Pole Refurbishment
11. Lakeshore Park Snack Shack Leak Investigation
12. Citywide fence repairs
13. Backup Generator Installation at Various Sites
14. Acoustical Attenuation Projects
15. Mechanical Equipment Replacement
16. Tenant Improvements Projects at the Corp Yard
17. Vandalism Repair at Various Sites
18. Hazardous Materials Removal at Various Sites
19. Mechanical repairs at Recreation Centers (i.e., King)
20. Electrical / Lighting repairs at City parks (i.e., Los Prados)
21. Water intrusion investigation and repair (i.e., Roofs)
In Fall 2024, the City prequalified five contractors based on previous satisfactory performance and invited them to submit 
163 of 448

--- page 164 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
proposals for the specified work. As a result, four contractors, SP Construction, Inc., Y3C, Inc., Newton Construction & 
Management, and Angeles Contractor, Inc. were awarded on-call agreements, each valued at $90,000. These contractors 
were selected due to their familiarity with the City’s facilities and its diverse range of project types, and their ability to 
respond to them. All four are currently working continuously to assist in reducing staff workload and ensuring the smooth 
operation of day-to-day activities.
The Facilities and Fleet Services Division expects a significant increase in maintenance and repair work during the wet 
weather months, including on-call responses on nights and weekends, which may create challenges in meeting coverage 
needs with the current personnel schedule. The work includes, but is not limited to, electrical outages, fence damage, 
generator maintenance, roof and window repairs, etc. Y3C, Inc. has performed exceptionally under their current contract, 
has proven to be dependable at all hours, has access to specialized personnel, resources, and equipment, and is familiar 
with the City's policies and procedures. Staff recommends a change order to the on-call agreement with Y3C, Inc. for an 
additional $160,000. Subsequent proposals for each task will be submitted and reviewed before execution. The requested 
amount is based on prior years’ expenditures for issues such as fence, structural, or waterproofing repairs.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
These services are funded through the Facilities operating and various capital project budgets, which include sufficient 
funding for this change order.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of a change order with Y3C, Inc. for on-call general contracting services is categorically exempt from CEQA as an 
“existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor 
alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving 
negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Contract Change Order No. 1
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Facilities & Fleet Services Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
164 of 448

--- page 165 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER #1
PROJECT:
PW Facilities On-Call General Contractual Services
TO: 
Y3C, Inc.
2804 Butte St, #A
Santa Clara, CA 95051
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO. 
 1
           Page 1 of 1
PO/SCON No.
0000856
Date
1/13/2025
Cost Center
Facilities
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Following is a description of work to be done, estimate of quantities, and prices to be paid.
In October 2024, the City awarded an on-call construction contract to Y3C, Inc. in the amount of $90,000. This change order is for 
additional general maintenance work and to provide emergency after hours response through FY ’24-’25.
Total cost of change not to exceed: $160,000
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
By reason of this proposed change, 0 days extension of time will be allowed.
Date Accepted: 
Contractor (Y3C, Inc.)
By: 
Title:  
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing, City Clerk, Contractor, Construction Manager, 
Project Analyst, Project File
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$90,000.00
Previous Change Orders
$0.00
Total to date
$90,000.00
This Change Order
$160,000.00
Revised Contract Price
$250,000.00
Date Approved: 
By: 
Matt Fabry, Public Works Director
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Public Works Director.
165 of 448

--- page 166 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4681
File ID: 24-9418
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 3, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Poplar Creek Tenant Improvements – Budget Appropriation, Contract Change Order, and Rent Waiver Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to authorize a total budget appropriation of $1,650,000 from the unassigned fund balance of the 
General Fund, with $1,530,000 appropriated to the Poplar Creek Tenant Improvements project in the Capital Project Fund 
and $120,000 appropriated to the Parks and Recreation operating budget within the Golf Fund; approve Change Order No. 
1 to the agreement with Jon K Takata Corporation dba Restoration Management Company to provide contract services for 
the Project in the amount of $1,072,649.41 for a new contract total of $1,152,256.31; establish a construction contract 
contingency of $115,300; authorize the Public Works Director to issue change orders within the contingency and execute 
Change Order No. 1 in substantially the form presented; approve a Rent Waiver Agreement with PAR3SM, LLC; and 
authorize the City Manager to execute the Rent Waiver Agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
Poplar Creek Golf Course has been in operation for over 90 years, with the current clubhouse built in 2000. The City and 
PAR3SM, LLC (PAR 3) entered into a lease agreement on April 3, 2019, for the restaurant and banquet facilities at the Golf 
Course.  
In July 2024, the Public Works Facilities Division was alerted to water infiltration in the banquet room of the Poplar Creek 
Golf Clubhouse restaurant area. Moisture was visibly seeping through the walls and floor in both the banquet hall and 
kitchen. Initial investigations identified that the wall between the kitchen and banquet room was saturated. In August 
2024, the City hired a waterproofing specialist who recommended inspecting the drain lines and conducting an air test. On 
October 7, 2024, an environmental hygienist conducted the air test which revealed high levels of bacteria, rendering the 
space unsafe for occupancy. As a result, when the City received air testing results on October 11, 2024, the 
restaurant/banquet tenant space was evacuated, red-tagged, and has remained closed to PAR 3 staff and the public ever 
since.  Costs for the air testing and initial drainage assessment are approximately $25,000.
In October 2024, the City engaged Jon K Takata Corporation (dba Restoration Management Company, or RMC) for a 
preliminary assessment to determine an appropriate approach to investigate and repair the facility. RMC proposed a 
phased approach:
•
Phase 1: Establish containment, decontaminate the area, remove and store equipment and furniture, and 
document existing building conditions. Investigate the source of water infiltration by removing finish materials and 
inspecting the drain lines. Identify the remaining tasks required to complete Phase 1 and incorporate them into a 
subsequent change order. Develop a detailed scope, schedule, and fee of repairs for Phase 2.
•
Phase 2: Restoration work to remove contaminants, repair or replace structural components, and install new finish 
materials. Reinstall equipment and furniture.
166 of 448

--- page 167 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Phase 3: Coordinate with County Health officials to recommission the restaurant for operations. Provide a 
plumbing report and remediation report.
On November 21, 2024, the City executed a $79,606.90 construction contract with RMC to start Phase 1. Under Section 
3.60.050(a) of the San Mateo Municipal Code, this project presented an emergency threatening the public health, safety, 
or welfare. Therefore, the City negotiated with RMC to begin investigation and remediation immediately in order to 
restore normal operations as quickly as possible. RMC has prior experience in similar restoration and remediation projects 
and was able to quickly mobilize and start the required efforts.
Proposed Contract Change Order No. 1 to RMC’s agreement includes additional scope identified during the investigation, 
including remediation/restoration of damage and mold at structural components beyond the initial work boundaries, 
requiring additional equipment for decontamination, and procurement of a structural engineer and an environmental 
hygienist as required to complete Phase 1. This additional Phase 1 scope has an associated fee of $147,358.95. 
Contract Change Order No. 1 also includes the entire scopes of Phases 2 and 3. Deliverables will include a restored and 
habitable tenant space approved by the County Health inspector and the San Mateo Building Department, a detailed 
investigation report, and a comprehensive remediation report. It is currently anticipated that RMC’s scope and the 
recommissioning of the tenant space will be completed by September 2025 but is subject to change as construction 
progresses. The fee associated with Phases 2 and 3 was negotiated to $925,290.46.
Staff negotiated total scope and fee for Contract Change Order No. 1 of $1,072,649.41. Staff recommends approval of the 
change order due to RMC’s specialized remediation skillset, familiarity with the City facilities, and ability to complete the 
repairs in a timely manner.
A construction contract contingency of $115,300 is recommended to address any risks or unknowns through the remaining 
course of construction. Some of the risks include potential discovery of subfloor damage, foundation damage, or 
contaminated soils as a result of moisture penetration. Other risks include remedying any existing non-conforming 
conditions to pass County Health or City building inspections. All of these risks may require additional professional services 
to assess, evaluate, and design prior to implementation by the contractor.
In addition to RMC’s costs to complete the site restoration, soft costs for the environmental hygienist, drainage 
investigation and cleaning, contracted project and construction management services, and the cost to lease portable 
restroom facilities to deliver the project are estimated to be $230,600.00.
To fund these costs, an appropriation of $1,530,000 to the Poplar Creek Tenant Improvements project is required; a 
breakdown is summarized below:
Item
Description
Amount
Preliminary Soft Costs
Environmental hygienist, initial drainage assessment, 
initial investigation, portable restroom rental
$          25,000.00
Construction Contract - Remediation
Phase 1 services
$          79,606.90
Contract Change Order No. 1
Additional Phase 1 services for Remediation
$        147,358.95
Contract Change Order No. 1
Phases 2 and 3 for Restoration
$        925,290.46
Construction Contingency - Restoration
Typically, contingency is established as 10% of the 
construction contract, which includes Phases 1, 2 and 3.
$        115,300.00
Construction Soft Costs - Restoration
Environmental hygienist, drainage investigation and 
cleaning, project management, and construction 
management services, portable restroom rental
$        230,600.00
TOTAL
$    1,523,156.31
Since the closure on October 11, to support golf patrons during the ongoing closure of the restaurant facilities, the City is 
167 of 448

--- page 168 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
leasing portable restroom facilities and has facilitated food trucks providing food and beverages in the golf course parking 
lot. Given PAR3’s inability to operate the restaurant or banquet facilities since the closure, staff is proposing a Rent Waiver 
Agreement until the tenant space (restaurant and banquet room) is recommissioned:
•
Deferral of rent payments from October 11, 2024, until the restaurant and banquet room are recommissioned.
•
City will pay water, electrical, and gas utilities from October 11, 2024, until the restaurant and banquet room are 
recommissioned.
•
City will pay sewer fees from October 11, 2024, until the restaurant and banquet room are recommissioned.
  The costs associated with the Rent Waiver Agreement are estimated to be $120,000.
BUDGET IMPACT:
A budget appropriation of $1,530,000 from the General Fund is needed to cover the anticipated costs of the project. This 
amount will fund the costs associated with Contract Change Order No. 1, the requested construction contract contingency, 
and the remaining estimated soft costs required to finish the work.
An additional budget appropriation of $120,000 from the unassigned fund balance of the General Fund to the Golf Fund is 
requested to fund the estimated utility and sewer costs associated with the Rent Waiver Agreement with Par 3.
The approximate value of the rent concessions deferred impacting the Golf Fund is $300,000 in revenue. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This project is categorically exempt from CEQA as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, 
maintenance, permitting, leasing, licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, 
mechanical equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Contract Change Order No. 1
Att 3 – Rent Waiver Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Steve Wu, Facilities and Fleet Services Manager
swu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7345
Marie Silva, Deputy Parks & Recreation Director
msilva@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7406
168 of 448

--- page 169 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
AUTHORIZING AN APPROPRIATION OF $1,650,000 FROM THE UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE OF THE 
GENERAL FUND WITH $1,530,000 APPROPRIATED TO THE POPLAR CREEK TENANT IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT 
IN THE CAPITAL PROJECT FUND AND $120,000 APPROPRIATED TO THE PARKS AND RECREATION OPERATING 
BUDGET WITHIN THE GOLF FUND.
WHEREAS, the City Council considers mid-year budget balancing through adjustments, appropriations, 
designations and transfers to adjust the current-year budget to meet anticipated changes in departmental 
budgetary needs; and
WHEREAS, the City Council recognizes the need to make immediate-term improvements at the Poplar 
Creek Golf Course tenant space to restore normal operations; and
WHEREAS, the City Council recognizes the need to scope necessary remediation upgrades to extend the 
useful life of the restaurant tenant space; and
WHEREAS, additional funding for the Poplar Creek Tenant Improvements project in the amount of 
$1,530,000 is required to fund the budget to cover the costs of the construction contract, contingency, and 
additional soft costs estimated to make immediate-term improvements; and
WHEREAS, additional funding for the Golf Fund is required to cover the estimated $120,000 in utility and 
sewer expenses associated with a Rent Waiver Agreement until the tenant space is recommissioned; and
WHEREAS, sufficient funding in the City’s unassigned fund balance of the General Fund is available to 
appropriate the $1,650,000 to satisfy the additional funding needs.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES
that:
1.
This City Council action is not a project subject to CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).) The 
proposed underlying immediate-term improvements is categorically exempt from CEQA as an 
“existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, 
licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical 
equipment, or topographical features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
2.
An appropriation of $1,530,000 from the unassigned fund balance from the General Fund to the 
Poplar Creek Tenant Improvements Project (46F053) in the Capital Project Fund is authorized.
3.
An appropriation of $120,000 from the unassigned fund balance from the General Fund to the Parks 
and Recreation operation budget within the Golf Fund for utility and sewer expenses is authorized.
169 of 448

--- page 170 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
330 WEST 20TH AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA 94403
(650) 522-7300
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER #1
PROJECT:
Poplar Creek Tenant Improvements
TO: 
Restoration Management Company
3090 Independence Drive
Livermore, CA 94551
CONTRACT CHANGE ORDER NO. 
 1
           Page 1 of 1
PO/SCON No.
0001354
Date
2/3/2025
Fund
590
Cost Center
Facilities
Spend Category
Other Contractual Services
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and specifications or do the following described work not 
included in the plans and specifications on your contract.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
Following is a description of work to be done, estimate of quantities, and prices to be paid.
In November 2024, the City awarded construction contract to Jon K Takata Corporation dba Restoration Management Company in the 
amount of $79,606.90 to begin Phase 1 of a 3-phase approach. This change order is to cover the remaining work to complete phase 1 and 
includes phases 2 and 3.
Total cost of change not to exceed: $1,072,649.41
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as 
full payment therefore the prices shown above.
By reason of this proposed change, 0 days extension of time will be allowed.
Date Accepted: 
Contractor (Jon K Takata Corporation dba Restoration Management Company)
By: 
Title:  
DISTRIBUTION: Purchasing, City Clerk, Contractor, Construction Manager, 
Project Analyst, Project File
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT
Original Contract Price
$79,606.90
Previous Change Orders
$0.00
Total to date
$79,606.90
This Change Order
$1,072,649.41
Revised Contract Price
$1,152,256.31
Date Approved: 
By: 
Matt Fabry, Public Works Director
NOTE: This change order is not effective until approved by the 
Public Works Director.
170 of 448

--- page 171 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
Client:
City of San Mateo 
Property:
1700 Coyote Point Dr.
San Mateo, CA 94401 
Operator:
NPANDELI
Estimator:
Nick Pandelis
Cellular:
(510) 514-1491
Position:
Project Director 
Company:
RMC
Business:
150 Beacon St.
San Francisco, CA 94080
Type of Estimate:
Water Damage
Date Entered:
10/18/2024
Date Assigned:
Price List:
CAPE8X_OCT24
Labor Efficiency:
Restoration/Service/Remodel 
Estimate:
CIT170SFC209228-1
E-mail:
npandelis@rmc.com
Inspections
This loss was inspected on 10/18/2024, as requested by the insurance company, property management, or the insured to provide 
an estimate and or causation report for the resulting damages.
Estimate
This estimate is intended to provide the costs associated with the necessary repairs of the damages stated above. This estimate 
is written with work being completed during regular business hours using Davis-Bacon wage rates.
This estimate has been prepared using an industry recognized independent third-party pricing database which has proved reliable 
for the type of repairs outlined. In the event it is later determined that an individual line item price does not adequately reflect 
current market place pricing, product availability, or other requirements or conditions unique to the individual project, 
Restoration Management Company reserves the right to present a supplemental billing or change order outlining the revised 
costs for payment.
This estimate/bid reflects retail pricing that is competitive within the construction industry. Any additional supplements 
or change orders will also reflects retail pricing prior to the addition of Overhead and Profit listed at the end of this 
estimate/bid.
Scope of work
This document is intended to be a scope of work and an estimate of the related costs only. If a specific item is not included 
within then it is not included as this estimate/bid does not include hidden or concealed damages.
Supplements and/or change to the scope of work
Any supplements and/or change orders to the estimate will alter the costs and will likely delay the completion of this project. 
Restoration Management Company cannot be held responsible in any way for unforeseen delays that would be caused by 
changes in the scope repairs.
171 of 448

--- page 172 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 2
Site preparation & demolition
Care will be exercised in all phases of the demolition needs. In the event, that a material is damaged that was intended for
re-installation, a supplement or change order may be supplied to the appropriate financial party for approval to have Restoration 
Management complete the additional repair needs.
Contents
If there are contents being stored on site and need to be relocated during the restoration or re-construction, great care will be 
taken to move/protect as needed. If however, Restoration Management recommends these contents be removed while the 
restoration/repairs are being completed and a decision is made by other to leave in place during this process, we cannot be held 
responsible for damage that may occur.
Materials
The replacement materials used will be a like kind material matching grains, texture for the areas altered during the restoration 
process only. In the event the grain, texture, type of material is not satisfactory due to current supplier supply, Restoration 
Management reserves the right to supply a supplement and or change order to the appropriate responsible party.
Paints and Finishes
The paints and finishes if in this estimate are for matching color & Sheen. Paint applied to original materials with flaws such as 
dents, paint runs, etc, will not be corrected and may be visible. When paint is applied to new surface materials, the finish should 
be consistent with construction performance guidelines. In the event the color or sheen match is unsatisfactory. a supplement or 
change order estimate will be submitted to the appropriate responsible party for approval for Restoration Management to provide 
the labor and materials necessary to paint or finish any additional areas needed to achieve a uniform match.
Hazardous Materials
Restoration Management strongly recommends that before construction repairs begin, a survey of the structure be completed to 
determine if any of the building materials could contain asbestos, lead, or mold. If any of these conditions or materials are 
suspect, we highly recommend testing be completed. If the recommendation for testing is made but declined, Restoration 
Management will be held harmless in this regard.
Permits, Plans, Code Upgrades
This estimate does not include the following unless otherwise specified: code upgrades, architectural drawings, engineering, 
building permits and other fees. In the event a building department or other authority requires the above, it is beyond our scope 
and a supplement/change order will be provided to the appropriate responsible party outlining the additional needs that may be 
required.
Contracts and Payment Requirement
This document is not an authorization to proceed. If you would like to proceed with the work as outlined, you will need to sign a 
contract/ authorization document if you have not yet already done so.
When Restoration Management Company is selected to complete the repairs to the residence, building, structure, and after the 
contract/authorization has been signed, a payment schedule may also be presented that would outline payment needs as the 
project is being completed. The payment schedule is very important in the timely completion of the project and will be followed 
up with you by the assigned project manager or our accounting department.
Project Management
After all contracts/ authorizations have been completed, a Project Manager will be assigned to take care of your specific needs of 
this repair. The Project Manager will be responsible for the timely completion of your project at all times. You will find that your 
Project Manager will help guide you through all selections, scheduling, and product budgets to additionally assure your 
satisfaction.
For any further questions regarding this estimate/bid, please feel free to contact us at any time. We at Restoration Management 
Company look forward to working with you and hope we are able to meet and exceed your expectations.
Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to serving you.
172 of 448

--- page 173 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 3
CIT170SFC209228-1
General
CAT
SEL
CALC
ACT DESCRIPTION 
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
1. LAB
SUPERC
+ Commercial Supervision / Project Management - per hour
275
275.00 HR [*]
0.00+
183.39 =
0.00
10,086.46
60,518.71
2. DMO
DTRLR
- Tandem axle dump trailer - per load - including dump fees
4
4.00 EA [*]
623.31+
0.00 =
0.00
498.64
2,991.88
3. LAB
LBR
+ General Laborer - per hour
75
75.00 HR [*]
0.00+
152.68 =
0.00
2,290.20
13,741.20
Additional labor to clean jobsite at the end of each workday
4. LAB
LBR
+ General Laborer - per hour
24
24.00 HR [*]
0.00+
152.68 =
0.00
732.86
4,397.18
additional labor for cartage of material to and from jobsite
5. FEE
ENG
1
+ Engineering fees (Bid Item)
1.00 EA [*]
0.00+
12,500.00 =
0.00
2,500.00
15,000.00
budget number from engineer
6. FEE
7. TMP
TIPF
TLT
1
4
+ Taxes, insurance, permits & fees (Bid Item)
1.00 EA
+ Temporary toilet (per month)
4.00 MO
0.00+
248.00 =
0.00
AS INCURRED
198.40
1,190.40
8. TMP
HWS
4
+ Temporary hand washing station (per month)
4.00 MO
0.00+
242.04 =
0.00
193.64
1,161.80
9. CON
LAB
+ Content Manipulation charge - per hour
10*8*4
320.00 HR [*]
0.00+
152.68 =
0.00
9,771.52
58,629.12
10 people 8 days to move contents back in
Totals: General
0.00
26,271.72
157,630.29
Main Level
Main Level
CAT
SEL
ACT DESCRIPTION
CALC
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
10. CLN
FINALC
+ Final cleaning - construction - Commercial
F
9041.63 SF [*]
0.00+
0.78 =
0.00
1,410.50
8,462.97
11. HVC
LAB
2*8*2
+ HVAC Technician - per hour
32.00 HR [*]
0.00+
244.26 =
0.00
1,563.26
9,379.58
Clean ductwork at the end of recon
Total: Main Level
0.00
2,973.76
17,842.55
173 of 448

--- page 174 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 4
Kitchen
Height: 11' 6"
3563.48 SF Walls
5075.69 SF Walls & Ceiling
168.02 SY Flooring
309.87 LF Ceil. Perimeter
1512.21 SF Ceiling
1512.21 SF Floor
309.87 LF Floor Perimeter
Subroom: Pantry (1)
Height: 11' 6"
494.50 SF Walls
609.50 SF Walls & Ceiling
12.78 SY Flooring
43.00 LF Ceil. Perimeter
115.00 SF Ceiling
115.00 SF Floor
43.00 LF Floor Perimeter
Subroom: Closet (3)
Height: 11' 6"
230.01 SF Walls
254.90 SF Walls & Ceiling
2.77 SY Flooring
20.00 LF Ceil. Perimeter
24.89 SF Ceiling
24.89 SF Floor
20.00 LF Floor Perimeter
Subroom: Office (2)
Height: 11' 6"
379.61 SF Walls
446.55 SF Walls & Ceiling
7.44 SY Flooring
33.01 LF Ceil. Perimeter
66.94 SF Ceiling
66.94 SF Floor
33.01 LF Floor Perimeter
CAT
SEL
CALC
ACT DESCRIPTION
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
12. DMO
MASKFP+
- Floor prot. - cloth - skid resist, leak proof, cleanable
F
1710.70 SF [*]
2.17+
0.00 =
80.68
758.58
4,551.48
13. ELE
OSRS
+ Outlet or switch - Detach & reset
14
14.00 EA [*]
0.00+
53.03 =
0.00
148.48
890.90
14. INS
BT4+
+ Batt insulation - 4" - R13 - unfaced batt
PF*4+(11+8'3+20+8+1
1930.52 SF [*]
0.00+
1.52 =
122.64
611.40
3,668.43 
3+13+3'6)*4
gietoRr3oC'o9lmo"se(t210)('11) 1"
24' 10"
1)
Mens Bathroom Entry
Storage (1)
3'
Walk-Ins
Pantry (1)
7' 1"
7' 10" 7' 3"
3' 7"
Kitc8h' en
8' 7"
Storage  CloseOt ff(i3c)e (28)' 9"
10' 4"
10'
Pantry (1)
7' 3"
3' 1"
1' 5"
2' 6"
1' 5"
Closet (3)
5' 4"
4' 1"
2' 6"
3' 3"
3' 9"
3' 1"
Office (2)
3)
9' 4"
9' 6"
4' 8"
2' 6"
4' 10"
2' 4"
5'
1' 8"
1' 4"
2'
3'  2' 2"
5' 2"
5'
16' 10" 3'
12' 10"
13' 6"
17'
4' 3"
4' 3"
9' 10"
8'
8' 4" 9' 10"
9' 8"
9' 10"
4' 8"
6' 7"
6' 11"
1' 11"
3'  2' 1"
24' 3"
24' 7"
3'
4' 10"
7' 2"
174 of 448

--- page 175 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 5
CONTINUED - Kitchen
CAT
SEL
CALC
ACT DESCRIPTION
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
15. FRM
SH1/2T
+ Sheathing - plywood - 1/2" - treated
PF*4+(11+8'3+20+3'6)
*4
1794.52 SF [*]
0.00+
4.96 =
407.63
1,861.68
11,170.13
Material for shear paneling - per permits
16. FRM
LAB
+ Carpenter - General Framer - per hour
2*8*4
64.00 HR [*]
0.00+
205.10 =
0.00
2,625.28
15,751.68
Labor to install shear paneling and shear nailing pattern per permits
17. DRY
LF>5/8
+ 5/8" - drywall per LF - up to 4' tall
PF+11+8'3+20+8+13+1
3+3'6
482.63 LF [*]
0.00+
34.64 =
156.55
3,374.98
20,249.83
18. DRY
TEX++
+ Texture drywall - smooth / skim coat
W
4667.61 SF [*]
0.00+
3.56 =
71.88
3,337.72
20,026.29
19. PNT
SP+
+ Seal/prime (1 coat) then paint (1 coat) the walls - 2 colors
W
4667.61 SF [*]
0.00+
3.10 =
116.81
2,917.28
17,503.68
20. PNL
FRPT
+ Fiberglass reinforced plastic (FRP) paneling w/trim
W
4667.61 SF [*]
0.00+
17.12 =
741.28
16,130.16
96,780.92
21. PLM
FLDCI>
+ Floor drain - cast iron (no-hub) - 6"
4
4.00 EA [*]
0.00+
661.55 =
180.62
565.36
3,392.18
22. FCT
AV++
- Remove Tile floor covering - Commercial grade
.5F
855.35 SF [*]
8.40+
0.00 =
0.00
1,436.98
8,621.92
23. FCT
MORTAR
+ Mortar bed for tile floors
F
1710.70 SF [*]
0.00+
10.91 =
377.06
3,808.16
22,848.96
24. FCT
AV++
+ Tile floor covering - Commercial grade
F
1710.70 SF [*]
0.00+
34.83 =
2,153.69
12,347.48
74,084.85
15% waste added
25. FCT
B++
+ Tile base - Commercial grade
PF
405.88 LF [*]
0.00+
52.96 =
399.64
4,379.00
26,274.04
26. PLM
LAB
+ Plumber - per hour
2*8*4
64.00 HR [*]
0.00+
264.54 =
0.00
3,386.12
20,316.68
Labor to detach and reset all kitchen equipment, including sinks, ovens countertops and fridges
27. PLM
SUP
+ Plumbing fixture supply line
8
8.00 EA [*]
0.00+
39.30 =
5.57
64.00
383.97
28. PLM
STOP
+ Angle stop valve
8
8.00 EA [*]
0.00+
76.61 =
9.61
124.50
746.99
29. ELE
LAB
+ Electrician - per hour
2*2+2*2
8.00 HR [*]
0.00+
276.31 =
0.00
442.10
2,652.58
Labor to detach and reset electrical labor for removed wall
Totals: Kitchen
4,823.66
58,319.26
349,915.51
175 of 448

--- page 176 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 6
Restaurant/Bar
Height: 11' 6"
3579.74 SF Walls
5690.88 SF Walls & Ceiling
234.57 SY Flooring
312.88 LF Ceil. Perimeter
2111.14 SF Ceiling
2111.14 SF Floor
310.13 LF Floor Perimeter
Subroom: Storage Room (1)
Height: 11' 6"
194.02 SF Walls
214.58 SF Walls & Ceiling
2.28 SY Flooring
18.47 LF Ceil. Perimeter
20.56 SF Ceiling
20.56 SF Floor
15.72 LF Floor Perimeter
Missing Wall - Goes to Floor
2' 9" X 6' 8"
Opens into RESTAURANT_B
CAT
SEL
CALC
ACT DESCRIPTION
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
30. DMO
MASKFP+
- Floor prot. - cloth - skid resist, leak proof, cleanable
25*10
250.00 SF [*]
2.17+
0.00 =
11.79
110.86
665.15
31. ELE
OSRS
+ Outlet or switch - Detach & reset
6
6.00 EA [*]
0.00+
53.03 =
0.00
63.64
381.82
32. INS
BT4+
+ Batt insulation - 4" - R13 - unfaced batt
(19'3+8'3+17'6+2+8'3+
5'6+3+3)*4
33. FRM
SH1/2T
267.00 SF [*]
+ Sheathing - plywood - 1/2" - treated
0.00+
1.52 =
16.96
84.56
507.36
6'9*9
60.75 SF [*]
0.00+
4.96 =
13.80
63.02
378.14
Material for shear paneling - per permits
34. FRM
LAB
+ Carpenter - General Framer - per hour
2*4
8.00 HR [*]
0.00+
205.10 =
0.00
328.16
1,968.96
Labor to install shear paneling and shear nailing pattern per permits
35. DRY
LF>5/8
+ 5/8" - drywall per LF - up to 4' tall
19'3+8'3+17'6+2+8'3+8
'3+5'6+3'6+3
36. DRY
TEX++
75.50 LF [*]
+ Texture drywall - smooth / skim coat
0.00+
34.64 =
24.49
527.96
3,167.77
(20+8'3+5'6+3'6+5'3)
*11
467.50 SF [*]
0.00+
3.56 =
7.20
334.30
2,005.80
37. PNT
SP+
+ Seal/prime (1 coat) then paint (1 coat) the surface area - 2 colors
(23'6+10)*11+W1
562.52 SF [*]
0.00+
3.10 =
14.08
351.58
2,109.47
38. PNL
FRPT
+ Fiberglass reinforced plastic (FRP) paneling w/trim
(17'6+2)*4
78.00 SF [*]
0.00+
17.12 =
12.39
269.56
1,617.31
39. PLM
FLDCI>
+ Floor drain - cast iron (no-hub) - 6"
1
1.00 EA [*]
0.00+
661.55 =
45.16
141.36
848.07
55' 8"
4"
2"
11'  Entry
Wom
6' 6"
Restaurant/Bar
7' 6"
Tile (A1)
Me
 6' 4" 
6' 8"
StoJrangiet3o'Rr9oC"olmose(t1)(1
13' 8" 8' 3"
13' 10" 8' 5"
4' 1"
3' 9"
Storage Room (1J)anito
2' 6"  6"
1' 1"
6"
6"
21' 8"
10"
2' 1"
1' 4"
10"
6"
4" 10' 8"
1' 9"
2' 9"
1'
 12'  
11' 8"
18' 4"
18'
5' 6"
16' 10" 3'
8' 8"
5'
176 of 448

--- page 177 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 7
CONTINUED - Restaurant/Bar
CAT
SEL
CALC
ACT DESCRIPTION
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
40. FCT
MORTAR
+ Mortar bed for tile floors
20*10
200.00 SF [*]
0.00+
10.91 =
44.08
445.22
2,671.30
41. FCT
AV++
+ Tile floor covering - Commercial grade
20*10+F1
220.56 SF [*]
0.00+
34.83 =
277.67
1,591.96
9,551.73
42. FCT
B++
+ Tile base - Commercial grade
22+8'9+20+2+4+PF1
72.47 LF [*]
0.00+
52.96 =
71.36
781.88
4,691.25
43. PLM
LAB
+ Plumber - per hour
2*8
16.00 HR [*]
0.00+
264.54 =
0.00
846.52
5,079.16
Labor to detach and reset all kitchen equipment, including sinks, ovens countertops and fridges
44. PLM
SUP
+ Plumbing fixture supply line
2
2.00 EA [*]
0.00+
39.30 =
1.39
16.00
95.99
45. PLM
STOP
+ Angle stop valve
2
2.00 EA [*]
0.00+
76.61 =
2.40
31.12
186.74
46. ELE
LAB
+ Electrician - per hour
2*8
16.00 HR [*]
0.00+
276.31 =
0.00
884.20
5,305.16
labor to connect all wiring back up for the electronics and soda machine
Totals: Restaurant/Bar
542.77
6,871.90
41,231.18
Banquet Room
Height: 11' 6"
2752.19 SF Walls
5638.86 SF Walls & Ceiling
320.74 SY Flooring
241.83 LF Ceil. Perimeter
2886.67 SF Ceiling
2886.67 SF Floor
237.50 LF Floor Perimeter
Missing Wall - Goes to Floor
4' 4" X 6' 8"
Opens into HALLWAY
Subroom: Storage (1)
Height: 11' 6"
253.00 SF Walls
277.00 SF Walls & Ceiling
2.67 SY Flooring
22.00 LF Ceil. Perimeter
24.00 SF Ceiling
24.00 SF Floor
22.00 LF Floor Perimeter
6'
8' 3"
Storage (1)
StoragCe 
Banquet Room Jan
Hall
38' 1"  Back
3' 4"
3'
Storage (1)
3' 2"
1' 7"
11"
78' 11"
1' 3"
1' 1"
2' 1"
5'
1' 11"
8' 6" 3' 9' 8"
8' 3' 5' 9' 6"
12' 8" 26' 5"
8'
8' 4"
12' 6" 26' 3" 4' 4"
177 of 448

--- page 178 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 8
CAT
SEL
ACT DESCRIPTION
CALC
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
47. DMO
MASKFP+
- Floor prot. - cloth - skid resist, leak proof, cleanable
F
2910.67 SF [*]
2.17+
0.00 =
137.27
1,290.70
7,744.12
48. ELE
OSRS
+ Outlet or switch - Detach & reset
3
3.00 EA [*]
0.00+
53.03 =
0.00
31.82
190.91
49. INS
BT4+
+ Batt insulation - 4" - R13 - unfaced batt
(18+12'6+2+45'3)*4'6
349.88 SF [*]
0.00+
1.52 =
22.23
110.80
664.85
50. FRM
SH1/2T
+ Sheathing - plywood - 1/2" - treated
(18+12'6+2+45'3)*4'6
349.88 SF [*]
0.00+
4.96 =
79.48
362.98
2,177.86
Material for shear paneling - per permits
51. FRM
LAB
+ Carpenter - General Framer - per hour
2*8*2
32.00 HR [*]
0.00+
205.10 =
0.00
1,312.64
7,875.84
Labor to install shear paneling and shear nailing pattern per permits
52. DRY
5/8
+ 5/8" drywall - hung, taped, floated, ready for paint
18*11'6
207.00 SF [*]
0.00+
5.80 =
16.14
243.34
1,460.08
53. DRY
LF>5/8
+ 5/8" - drywall per LF - up to 4' tall
12'6+2+4'3
18.75 LF [*]
0.00+
34.64 =
6.08
131.12
786.70
54. DRY
TEX++
+ Texture drywall - smooth / skim coat
(12'6+2+4'3)
365.50 SF [*]
0.00+
3.56 =
5.63
261.36
1,568.17
*6+22*11'6
55. PNT
SP+
+ Seal/prime (1 coat) then paint (1 coat) more than the walls - 2 colors
W+PC*3
3796.69 SF [*]
0.00+
3.10 =
95.01
2,372.94
14,237.69
3' ceiling overhang included because of mitigation tape and staples
56. FCV
PREP+
+ Floor preparation for resilient flooring - Heavy
F
2910.67 SF [*]
0.00+
2.12 =
56.03
1,245.32
7,471.97
57. FCV
PLK++
- Remove Vinyl plank flooring - Commercial grade
.5F
1455.33 SF [*]
3.94+
0.00 =
0.00
1,146.80
6,880.80
58. FNC
B8H
- Remove Baseboard - 8" hardwood - 2 piece
.5PF
129.75 LF [*]
2.00+
0.00 =
0.00
51.90
311.40
59. FCV
PLK++
+ Vinyl plank flooring - Commercial grade
F*1.15
3347.27 SF [*]
0.00+
15.55 =
2,306.77
10,871.38
65,228.20
15% waste added
60. FNC
B8H
+ Baseboard - 8" hardwood - 2 piece
PF
259.50 LF [*]
0.00+
22.65 =
280.99
1,231.74
7,390.41
61. FCV
EDGE
+ Vinyl - metal transition strip
6+4+4
14.00 LF [*]
0.00+
5.83 =
2.25
16.78
100.65
62. PNT
B>2
+ Paint baseboard, oversized - two coats
PF
259.50 LF [*]
0.00+
4.35 =
7.49
227.26
1,363.58
Totals: Banquet Room
3,015.37
20,908.88
125,453.23
178 of 448

--- page 179 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 9
Walk-Ins
Height: 8'
658.94 SF Walls
941.35 SF Walls & Ceiling
31.38 SY Flooring
82.37 LF Ceil. Perimeter
282.41 SF Ceiling
282.41 SF Floor
82.37 LF Floor Perimeter
CAT
SEL
ACT DESCRIPTION
CALC
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
63. FCT
AV++
- Remove Tile floor covering - Commercial grade
F
282.41 SF [*]
8.40+
0.00 =
0.00
474.44
2,846.68
64. FCT
MORTAR
+ Mortar bed for tile floors
F
282.41 SF [*]
0.00+
10.91 =
62.25
628.68
3,772.02
65. FCT
AV++
+ Tile floor covering - Commercial grade
F*1.15
324.77 SF [*]
0.00+
34.83 =
408.87
2,344.12
14,064.73
15% waste added
66. FCT
B++
+ Tile base - Commercial grade
PF
82.37 LF [*]
0.00+
52.96 =
81.11
888.68
5,332.11
Totals: Walk-Ins
552.23
4,335.92
26,015.54
Mens Bathroom Entry
Height: 9'
909.00 SF Walls
1208.31 SF Walls & Ceiling
33.26 SY Flooring
101.00 LF Ceil. Perimeter
299.31 SF Ceiling
299.31 SF Floor
101.00 LF Floor Perimeter
Subroom: Janitor Closet (1)
Height: 11' 6"
212.35 SF Walls
232.91 SF Walls & Ceiling
2.28 SY Flooring
18.47 LF Ceil. Perimeter
20.56 SF Ceiling
20.56 SF Floor
18.47 LF Floor Perimeter
CAT
SEL
ACT DESCRIPTION
CALC
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
14' 1"
10' 7"
24' 6"
Walk-Ins
10' 4"
10'
3'
Pantry (1)
3'
2' 3"  2' 9"
2' 10" 13' 11"
7' 9" 2' 5"
3'
8' 3"
18' 8"
Mens Bathroom Entry
itRooroCmlos(e1t) (1)
35'
20' 11"
14' 1"
3' 11"
3' 9"
(1) Janitor Closet (1)
17'
16' 8"
2' 6"
5' 6"
4'
4' 3"
4' 3"
6'
5' 2"
5'
1' 3"  2' 6"
1' 9"
9' 6"
9' 10"
7' 3"
7' 9"
179 of 448

--- page 180 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 10
CONTINUED - Mens Bathroom Entry
CAT
SEL
ACT DESCRIPTION
CALC
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
67. DMO
MASKFP+
- Floor prot. - cloth - skid resist, leak proof, cleanable
F
319.82 SF [*]
2.17+
0.00 =
15.08
141.82
850.91
68. FRM
LAB
+ Carpenter - General Framer - per hour
2*8*5
80.00 HR [*]
0.00+
205.10 =
0.00
3,281.60
19,689.60
labor to demo additional drywall as needed and replace dry rot framing with new
***PENDING ENGINEERING AND PERMITS***
69. FRM
ST6
M Material Only Stud wall - 2x6 (per BF)
STN:
191.00 BF
0.00+
1.04 =
19.12
43.54
261.30
***PENDING ENGINEERING AND PERMITS***
70. INS
BT4+
+ Batt insulation - 4" - R13 - unfaced batt 
35*9'6+PF1*4
406.36 SF [*]
71. FRM
SH1/2T
+ Sheathing - plywood - 1/2" - treated 
35*11
385.00 SF [*]
Material for shear paneling - per permits
72. FRM
LAB
+ Carpenter - General Framer - per hour
2*8*2
32.00 HR [*]
0.00+
205.10 =
0.00
1,312.64
7,875.84
Labor to install shear paneling and shear nailing pattern per permits
73. DRY
5/8
+ 5/8" drywall - hung, taped, floated, ready for paint 
(35+9'6)*11
489.50 SF [*]
74. DRY
LF>5/8
+ 5/8" - drywall per LF - up to 4' tall 
PF1
18.47 LF [*]
75. DRY
TEX++
+ Texture drywall - smooth / skim coat 
(35+9'6)*11+W1
701.85 SF [*]
76. PNT
SP+
+ Seal/prime (1 coat) then paint (1 coat) more than the ceiling perimeter - 2 colors 
PC*5+C
917.20 SF [*]
77. PLM
FLDCI>
+ Floor drain - cast iron (no-hub) - 6"
1
1.00 EA [*]
78. TBA
PTD+
- Remove Paper towel dispenser with waste receptacle
1
1.00 EA [*]
114.59+
0.00 =
0.00
22.92
137.51
79. CAB
CTSSRS
+ Countertop - solid surface/granite - Detach & reset 
8'3*2
16.50 SF [*]
80. PLM
PTRAPRS
+ P-trap assembly - Detach & reset
3
3.00 EA [*]
81. PLM
STOP
+ Angle stop valve
6
6.00 EA [*]
82. PLM
SUP
+ Plumbing fixture supply line
6
6.00 EA [*]
0.00+
1.52 =
25.81
128.70
772.18
0.00+
4.96 =
87.45
399.42
2,396.47
0.00+
5.80 =
38.16
575.46
3,452.72
0.00+
34.64 =
5.99
129.16
774.95
0.00+
3.56 =
10.81
501.88
3,011.28
0.00+
3.10 =
22.95
573.26
3,439.53
0.00+
661.55 =
45.16
141.36
848.07
0.00+
94.11 =
0.18
310.60
1,863.60
0.00+
141.11 =
0.00
84.66
507.99
0.00+
76.61 =
7.21
93.38
560.25
0.00+
39.30 =
4.18
48.00
287.98
180 of 448

--- page 181 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 11
CONTINUED - Mens Bathroom Entry
CAT
SEL
CALC
ACT DESCRIPTION
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
83. PLM
SNKRS
+ Sink - single - Detach & reset
3
3.00 EA [*]
0.00+
353.79 =
0.22
212.32
1,273.91
84. PLM
FAUBA
R Detach & Reset Sink faucet - Bathroom
3
3.00 EA [*]
283.13
0.00+
0.00 =
0.00
169.88
1,019.27
85. TBA
GBARRS
+ Handicap grab bar - Detach & reset
2
2.00 EA [*]
0.00+
96.78 =
0.00
38.72
232.28
86. TBA
TLTPRS
+ Toilet partition - Detach & reset
4
4.00 EA [*]
0.00+
811.86 =
0.00
649.48
3,896.92
87. PLM
TLTRS
+ Toilet - Detach & reset
2
2.00 EA [*]
0.00+
568.88 =
1.83
227.92
1,367.51
88. PLM
URRS
+ Urinal - Detach & reset
3
3.00 EA [*]
0.00+
830.82 =
0.00
498.50
2,990.96
89. FNH
BAC
+ Bath accessory
4
4.00 EA [*]
0.00+
53.67 =
5.81
44.10
264.59
90. TBA
PTD+
I Install Paper towel dispenser with waste receptacle
1
1.00 EA [*]
0.00+
120.97 =
0.00
24.20
145.17
91. PLM
SSNK+
- Remove Service sink - corner - floor mounted
1
1.00 EA [*]
229.17+
0.00 =
0.00
45.84
275.01
92. PLM
SSNK+
I Install Service sink - corner - floor mounted
1
1.00 EA [*]
0.00+
855.08 =
0.00
171.02
1,026.10
93. MSD
AVRS
+ Mirror - plate glass - Detach & reset
3*4*4
48.00 SF [*]
0.00+
17.80 =
0.00
170.88
1,025.28
94. TIL
AV++
- Remove Ceramic/porcelain tile - Commercial grade
.5PF*4
238.93 SF [*]
6.71+
0.00 =
0.00
320.64
1,923.86
95. FCT
AV++
- Remove Tile floor covering - Commercial grade
F
319.82 SF [*]
8.40+
0.00 =
0.00
537.30
3,223.79
96. FCT
MORTAR
+ Mortar bed for tile floors
F+PF*4
797.68 SF [*]
0.00+
10.91 =
175.82
1,775.70
10,654.21
97. FCT
AV++
+ Tile floor covering - Commercial grade
F
319.82 SF [*]
0.00+
34.83 =
402.64
2,308.38
13,850.35
98. FCT
B++
+ Tile base - Commercial grade
PF
119.47 LF [*]
0.00+
52.96 =
117.63
1,288.94
7,733.70
99. TIL
AV++
+ Ceramic/porcelain tile - Commercial grade
PF*4
477.86 SF [*]
0.00+
43.58 =
641.16
4,293.26
25,759.56
Totals: Mens Bathroom Entry
1,627.21
20,565.48
123,392.65
181 of 448

--- page 182 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 12
Hallway
Height: 11' 6"
1726.69 SF Walls
2460.93 SF Walls & Ceiling
81.58 SY Flooring
154.83 LF Ceil. Perimeter
734.24 SF Ceiling
734.24 SF Floor
146.75 LF Floor Perimeter
Missing Wall - Goes to Floor
Missing Wall - Goes to Floor
4' 4" X 6' 8"
3' 9" X 6' 8"
Opens into BANQUET_ROO2
Opens into BACK_ENTRY
CAT
SEL
ACT DESCRIPTION
CALC
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
100. DMO
MASKFP+
- Floor prot. - cloth - skid resist, leak proof, cleanable
F
734.24 SF [*]
2.17+
0.00 =
34.63
325.58
1,953.51
101. ELE
OSRS
+ Outlet or switch - Detach & reset
1
1.00 EA [*]
0.00+
53.03 =
0.00
10.60
63.63
102. INS
BT4+
+ Batt insulation - 4" - R13 - unfaced batt
(8+9'6+4+4+4+4+4+5'3
+7+2)*4
103. FRM
SH1/2T
207.00 SF [*]
+ Sheathing - plywood - 1/2" - treated
0.00+
1.52 =
13.15
65.56
393.35
(5+3+5+6)*2
38.00 SF [*]
0.00+
4.96 =
8.63
39.42
236.53
Material for shear paneling - per permits
104. FRM
LAB
+ Carpenter - General Framer - per hour
2*4
8.00 HR [*]
0.00+
205.10 =
0.00
328.16
1,968.96
Labor to install shear paneling and shear nailing pattern per permits
105. DRY
LF>5/8
+ 5/8" - drywall per LF - up to 4' tall
8+9'6+4+4+4+4+4+5'3
+7+2
106. DRY
TEX++
51.75 LF [*]
+ Texture drywall - smooth / skim coat
0.00+
34.64 =
16.79
361.88
2,171.29
(8+9'6+4+4+4+4+4+5'3
+7+2)*6
310.50 SF [*]
0.00+
3.56 =
4.78
222.04
1,332.20
107. PNT
SP+
+ Seal/prime (1 coat) then paint (1 coat) more than the walls - 2 colors
W+C
2460.93 SF [*]
0.00+
3.10 =
61.58
1,538.10
9,228.56
ceiling included because of mitigation tape and staples
108. FNC
B8H
+ Baseboard - 8" hardwood - 2 piece
8+9'6+4+4+4+4+4+5'3
+7+2
109. PNT
B>2
51.75 LF [*]
+ Paint baseboard, oversized - two coats
0.00+
22.65 =
56.04
245.62
1,473.80
PF
146.75 LF [*]
0.00+
4.35 =
4.24
128.52
771.12
110. CAB
BSS
+ Backsplash - stainless steel
(10+4'6+4'6+13+4+4)
*9
360.00 SF [*]
0.00+
53.29 =
436.94
3,924.26
23,545.60
Totals: Hallway
636.78
7,189.74
43,138.55
tora3g'e8'(19)" 3'
12' 3"
Kit
Storage
m
Cl 
Janit
ff(i3c 
lo
Hallway
3'
W/
oseOt
or C
3'
2' 6" 3'
26' 5"
8'
26' 3"
4' 4" 8' 6"
5' 6"  5' 8" 1' 7"  14' 8"
8' 3"
8' 11"
5' 2' 6" 9' 10"
182 of 448

--- page 183 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 13
W/H Room
Height: 11' 6"
lway
774.35 SF Walls
1014.24 SF Walls & Ceiling
26.65 SY Flooring
67.33 LF Ceil. Perimeter
239.89 SF Ceiling
239.89 SF Floor
67.33 LF Floor Perimeter
CAT
SEL
ACT DESCRIPTION
CALC
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
111. DMO
MASKFP+
- Floor prot. - cloth - skid resist, leak proof, cleanable
25*10
250.00 SF [*]
2.17+
0.00 =
11.79
110.86
665.15
112. INS
BT4+
+ Batt insulation - 4" - R13 - unfaced batt
PF*4
269.34 SF [*]
0.00+
1.52 =
17.11
85.30
511.81
113. FRM
SH1/2T
+ Sheathing - plywood - 1/2" - treated
(8'6+16'9)*2
50.50 SF [*]
0.00+
4.96 =
11.47
52.40
314.35
Material for shear paneling - per permits
114. FRM
LAB
+ Carpenter - General Framer - per hour
2*4
8.00 HR [*]
0.00+
205.10 =
0.00
328.16
1,968.96
Labor to install shear paneling and shear nailing pattern per permits
115. DRY
LF>5/8
+ 5/8" - drywall per LF - up to 4' tall
PF
67.33 LF [*]
0.00+
34.64 =
21.84
470.82
2,824.97
116. DRY
TEX++
+ Texture drywall - smooth / skim coat
PF*4
269.34 SF [*]
0.00+
3.56 =
4.15
192.62
1,155.62
117. PNT
SP+
+ Seal/prime (1 coat) then paint (1 coat) more than the walls - 2 colors
W+C
1014.24 SF [*]
0.00+
3.10 =
25.38
633.90
3,803.42
ceiling included because of mitigation tape and staples
Totals: W/H Room
91.74
1,874.06
11,244.28
Janitor Closet
Height: 11' 6"
231.83 SF Walls
257.15 SF Walls & Ceiling
2.81 SY Flooring
20.16 LF Ceil. Perimeter
25.31 SF Ceiling
25.31 SF Floor
20.16 LF Floor Perimeter
CAT
SEL
ACT DESCRIPTION
CALC
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
Closet (3)
Janitor Closet 
5' 4"
5' 8"
Office (2)
9' 4"
2' 6"
9' 6"
11" 2' 1"
W/H Room
20' 8"
21'
5' 4"
Janitor Closet
5' 8"
1' 9"
1' 7" 5'
1' 7"
1' 7"
1'
1' 5"
2' 6"
10"
5' 1"
4' 9"
13'
13' 8"
5' 1"
183 of 448

--- page 184 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 14
CONTINUED - Janitor Closet
CAT
SEL
ACT DESCRIPTION
CALC
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
118. DMO
MASKFP+
- Floor prot. - cloth - skid resist, leak proof, cleanable
F
25.31 SF [*]
2.17+
0.00 =
1.19
11.22
67.33
119. INS
BT4+
+ Batt insulation - 4" - R13 - unfaced batt 
PF*4
80.64 SF [*]
120. ELE
OSRS
+ Outlet or switch - Detach & reset
2
2.00 EA [*]
121. FRM
SH1/2T
+ Sheathing - plywood - 1/2" - treated 
5*5
25.00 SF [*]
Material for shear paneling - per permits
122. FRM
LAB
+ Carpenter - General Framer - per hour 
2*2
4.00 HR [*]
Labor to install shear paneling and sheer nailing pattern per permits
123. DRY
LF>5/8
+ 5/8" - drywall per LF - up to 4' tall 
PF
20.16 LF [*]
124. DRY
TEX++
+ Texture drywall - smooth / skim coat 
PF*6
120.96 SF [*]
125. PNT
SP+
+ Seal/prime (1 coat) then paint (1 coat) the walls and ceiling - 2 colors 
WC
257.15 SF [*]
0.00+
ceiling included because of mitigation tape and staples
126. PLM
FAUBA
R Detach & Reset Sink faucet - Bathroom
3
3.00 EA [*]
283.13
0.00+
127. PLM
SSNK+
- Remove Service sink - corner - floor mounted
1
1.00 EA [*]
229.17+
128. PLM
SSNK+
I Install Service sink - corner - floor mounted
1
1.00 EA [*]
0.00+
129. PNL
FRPT
+ Fiberglass reinforced plastic (FRP) paneling w/trim
W
231.83 SF [*]
0.00+
17.12 =
36.82
801.14
4,806.89
130. FCT
AV++
- Remove Tile floor covering - Commercial grade 
F
25.31 SF [*]
131. FCT
MORTAR
+ Mortar bed for tile floors 
F
25.31 SF [*]
132. FCT
AV++
+ Tile floor covering - Commercial grade 
F*1.15
29.11 SF [*]
15% waste added
133. FCT
B++
+ Tile base - Commercial grade 
PF
20.16 LF [*]
134. FRM
LAB
+ Carpenter - General Framer - per hour
2+2
4.00 HR [*]
0.00+
205.10 =
0.00
164.08
984.48
labor to detach roof access lader and reset
0.00+
1.52 =
5.12
25.54
153.23
0.00+
53.03 =
0.00
21.22
127.28
0.00+
4.96 =
5.68
25.94
155.62
0.00+
205.10 =
0.00
164.08
984.48
0.00+
34.64 =
6.54
140.96
845.84
0.00+
3.56 =
1.86
86.50
518.98
3.10 =
6.44
160.72
964.33
0.00 =
0.00
169.88
1,019.27
0.00 =
0.00
45.84
275.01
855.08 =
0.00
171.02
1,026.10
8.40+
0.00 =
0.00
42.52
255.12
0.00+
10.91 =
5.58
56.34
338.05
0.00+
34.83 =
36.65
210.12
1,260.67
0.00+
52.96 =
19.85
217.52
1,305.04
184 of 448

--- page 185 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 15
CONTINUED - Janitor Closet
CAT
SEL
ACT DESCRIPTION
CALC
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
Totals: Janitor Closet
125.73
2,514.64
15,087.72
Exterior
Formula Elevation 30' x 12' x 0"
342.00 SF Walls
360.00 SF Long Wall
30.00 LF Ceil. Perimeter
30.00 LF Floor Perimeter
360.00 SF Short Wall
Missing Wall - Goes to neither Floor/Ceiling
3' X 6'
Opens into Exterior
CAT
SEL
CALC
ACT DESCRIPTION
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
135. DMO
MASKFP+
- Floor prot. - cloth - skid resist, leak proof, cleanable
30*5
150.00 SF [*]
2.17+
0.00 =
7.07
66.52
399.09
136. STU
AV
- Remove Metal lath & stucco
(8+8)*4
64.00 SF [*]
2.52+
0.00 =
0.00
32.26
193.54
***PENDING ENGINEERING AND PERMITS***
137. INS
BT4+
+ Batt insulation - 4" - R13 - unfaced batt
(8+8)*4
64.00 SF [*]
0.00+
1.52 =
4.07
20.28
121.63
138. FRM
LAB
+ Carpenter - General Framer - per hour
2*8*2
32.00 HR [*]
0.00+
205.10 =
0.00
1,312.64
7,875.84
labor to demo and replace dry rot framing with new
***PENDING ENGINEERING AND PERMITS***
139. FRM
ST6
M Material Only Stud wall - 2x6 (per BF)
STN:
178.00 BF
0.00+
1.04 =
17.82
40.58
243.52
***PENDING ENGINEERING AND PERMITS***
140. STU
AV
+ Metal lath & stucco
(8+8)*4
64.00 SF [*]
0.00+
18.66 =
8.62
240.56
1,443.42
***PENDING ENGINEERING AND PERMITS***
185 of 448

--- page 186 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 16
CONTINUED - Exterior
CAT
SEL
CALC
ACT DESCRIPTION
QTY
RESET
REMOVE
REPLACE
TAX
O&P
TOTAL
141. STU
COLOR
+ Stucco color coat (Redash) - sand texture
W
342.00 SF [*]
0.00+
9.58 =
15.47
658.38
3,950.21
Totals: Exterior
53.05
2,371.22
14,227.25
Total: Main Level
11,468.54
127,924.86
767,548.46
Line Item Totals: CIT170SFC209228-1
11,468.54
154,196.58
925,178.75
Additional Charges
Charge
California Lumber Assessment Fee
93.09
Additional Charges Total
$93.09
Grand Total Areas:
18,745.73 SF Walls
9,050.11 SF Ceiling
27,795.84
SF Walls and Ceiling
9,041.63 SF Floor
1,004.63 SY Flooring
1,684.55
LF Floor Perimeter
360.00 SF Long Wall
360.00 SF Short Wall
1,706.21
LF Ceil. Perimeter
9,041.63 Floor Area
9,401.39 Total Area
20,960.72
Interior Wall Area
6,666.41 Exterior Wall Area
547.33 Exterior Perimeter of 
Walls
0.00 Surface Area
0.00 Number of Squares
0.00
Total Perimeter Length
0.00 Total Ridge Length
0.00 Total Hip Length
186 of 448

--- page 187 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 17
Summary
Line Item Total
759,513.63
California Lumber Assessment Fee
93.09
Material Sales Tax
11,468.54
Subtotal
771,075.26
Overhead
77,107.60
Profit
77,107.60
Replacement Cost Value
$925,290.46
Net Claim
$925,290.46
Nick Pandelis 
Project Director
187 of 448

--- page 188 ---
Restoration Management Company - Hayward
4142 Point Eden Way 
Hayward, CA 94545
Phone: 800-400-5058
License #:765595
Tax ID#: 94-3267563
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 18
O&P Items
Recap by Category
Total
%
CABINETRY
20,737.22
2.24%
CLEANING
7,052.47
0.76%
CONTENT MANIPULATION
48,857.60
5.28%
GENERAL DEMOLITION
37,061.54
4.01%
DRYWALL
54,061.50
5.84%
ELECTRICAL
8,010.22
0.87%
FLOOR COVERING - CERAMIC TILE
160,726.93
17.37%
FLOOR COVERING - VINYL
58,302.29
6.30%
PERMITS AND FEES
12,500.00
1.35%
FINISH CARPENTRY / TRIMWORK
7,049.82
0.76%
FINISH HARDWARE
214.68
0.02%
FRAMING & ROUGH CARPENTRY
69,581.06
7.52%
HEAT, VENT & AIR CONDITIONING
7,816.32
0.84%
INSULATION
5,433.61
0.59%
LABOR ONLY
65,547.57
7.08%
MIRRORS & SHOWER DOORS
854.40
0.09%
PLUMBING
35,510.92
3.84%
PANELING & WOOD WALL FINISHES
85,213.77
9.21%
PAINTING
44,163.84
4.77%
STUCCO & EXTERIOR PLASTER
4,470.60
0.48%
TOILET & BATH ACCESSORIES
3,561.97
0.38%
TILE
20,825.14
2.25%
TEMPORARY REPAIRS
1,960.16
0.21%
O&P Items Subtotal
759,513.63
82.08%
Permits and Fees
93.09
0.01%
Material Sales Tax
11,468.54
1.24%
Overhead
77,107.60
8.33%
Profit
77,107.60
8.33%
Total
925,290.46
100.00%
188 of 448

--- page 189 ---
Main Level
Main Level
CIT170SFC209228-1
1/13/2025
Page: 19
67' 10"
56'
10' 10"
11'
Entry
22' 4"
22'
Restaurant/Bar
7' 6"  3' 6"
13' 1"
Womens Bathroom Entry
2' 10"
8' 3"
13' 11"
7' 9" 2' 5"
18' 8"
7' 6"
Tile (A1) 3' 9" 3' 9"
4' 1"
11' 6"
StorJaagneitRoroComlos(e1t )(1)
7' 9" Mens Bathroom Entry
35'
10' 7"
7' 6"
2' 9"
2' 5"
24' 10"
24' 6"
4' 10"
7' 6"
7' 6"
Walk-Ins
10' 4"
10'
6' 10"Pantry (1)
7' 4"
21' 5"
8' 3"
8'
30'
10'
9' 8"
7' 3"  3' 1"
7' 10"
3' 11"
3' 4"
2' 5"
3'
2' 5"
Storage (1)
8' 9"
17' 6"
5' 5"
Kitchen
8'
5'
5'
18' 5"
Storage
10'
5' 4"
9' 4"
8' 9"
Banquet Room
5' 4"
9' 4"
Janitor Closet 15'
W/H Room
ClosetO(f3fi)ce (2)
Hallway
20' 8"
21'
5'
 12' 6"
Back Entry
40'
53' 6"
22' 8"
22'
7' 6"
7' 6"
92' 3"
80' 11"
9' 3"
11'
12'
 
11' 6"
11' 8"
21'
18' 4"
18'
6' 2"
6'
35'
8' 2"
9' 6"
20' 10"
8' 8"
12'
12' 4"
45' 11"
8'
9' 10"
9' 10"
4'
4'
8'
8' 4"
12' 10"
13' 6"
41' 9"
17'
7' 6"
2' 6"
12' 6"
18' 4"
5' 6"
33' 8"
6'
17'
16' 8"
5' 2"
7' 11"
9' 10"
8' 3"
8' 11"
4' 9"
5' 1" 4' 10"
6'
12' 9"
9' 6"
9' 10"
9' 6"
9' 10"
6' 8"
7' 2"
13'
13' 8"
29' 5"
29' 9"
11' 6"
7' 3"
19' 9"
189 of 448

--- page 190 ---
RENT WAIVER AND FACILITY EXPENSE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND
PAR3SM, LLC
This Rent Waiver and Facility Expense Agreement (the “AGREEMENT”) is made on this day 
______________ , by and between THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation (“LANDLORD”) and 
PAR3SM, LLC,  a limited liability company (“TENANT”). Collectively, LANDLORD and TENANT are referred 
to herein as the “PARTIES”, and this AGREEMENT is made to address lease obligations for the TENANT’S 
occupancy and leasing of real property known as Par 3 Restaurant located at the Poplar Creek Golf Course 
at 1700 Coyote Point Drive San Mateo, CA 94401 (the “PREMISES”).
RECITALS
A.
WHEREAS, TENANT’S occupancy of the PREMISES is based upon a LEASE (the “LEASE”) executed 
on April 3, 2019; and
B.
WHEREAS, on October 11, 2024, the LANDLORD red tagged the building the TENANT occupies 
on the PREMISES; and 
C.
WHEREAS, since October 11, 2024; the LANDLORD has deemed the building the TENANT 
occupies on the PREMISES to pose a public health emergency and unsafe to occupy; and 
D.
WHEREAS, as a result of the public health emergency, indoor restaurant operations have been 
prohibited; and
E.
WHEREAS, the TENANT is unable to pay base rent or utility and sewer service expenses based 
on its inability to conduct indoor restaurant operations; and
F.
WHEREAS, the LANDLORD recommends the utility services for the PREMISES remain on; and 
G.
WHEREAS, the PARTIES desire to waive payment of base rent and for LANDLORD to reimburse 
TENANT for utility and sewer service expenses until the building on the PREMISES is safe to 
occupy again; and 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises, terms, and conditions contained herein and such 
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, 
the PARTIES agree as follows:
1.
Incorporation by Reference. Each and all of the Recitals are incorporated as terms of this 
AGREEMENT.
2.
Rent Waiver and Facility Expenses.  
190 of 448

--- page 191 ---
a.
Rent Payment October 2024.  The payment of rent due for October 2024 will be pro-rated. 
Rent payment will be subject to the terms in the lease executed on April 3, 2019. TENANT 
will pay rent on sales from October 1, 2024 to October 10, 2024 only. Rent for October 11, 
2024 to October 31, 2024 will be waived.
b.
Rent Payments Beginning November 1, 2024.  Beginning November 1, 2024, TENANT’s 
payment of rent is waived until the indoor portion of the restaurant (including the bar, 
restaurant, and banquet facility) is authorized by LANDLORD as safe to occupy. (“Percentage 
Rent Trigger”).  On the first day of the first month after the Percentage Rent Trigger, 
TENANT will pay percentage rent as described in the LEASE.
c.
Sewer Service Charges for 2024-2025.  LANDLORD will pay 100% of the sewer service 
charges starting October 11, 2024, until   TENANT is given the authorization to return for 
occupancy.
d.
Utility Service Charges.  LANDLORD will re-imburse TENANT 100% of the power, gas, and 
water service charges while the building is not able to be occupied by the TENANT.
3.
Construction.  This AGREEMENT shall not be construed against the party preparing it, but shall 
be construed as if all PARTIES jointly prepared this AGREEMENT without any uncertainty or 
ambiguity being interpreted against any one party.
4.
Severability.  If any provision of this AGREEMENT or its application to any party or circumstance 
is held invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this AGREEMENT and the 
application of such provisions to other parties or circumstances shall not be affected thereby, 
the provisions of this AGREEMENT being severable in any such instance.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the PARTIES have executed this AGREEMENT as of the day and year first 
above written.
191 of 448

--- page 192 ---
LANDLORD: 
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
a municipal corporation
TENANT:
PAR3SM, LLC
a California limited liability company
 
 By: _________________________
  Name: Alex Khojikian 
  Title: City Manager
By: 
Name: Alicia Petrakis
Its: Owner
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
________________________________
Prasanna Rasiah 
City Attorney
192 of 448

--- page 193 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 25-9571
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
Commitment to Explore Reach Codes for the 2025 Code Cycle — Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution affirming the City’s commitment to exploring local amendments to the Energy Code and Green Building 
Code for the 2025 Code Cycle to advance the City’s climate goals.
BACKGROUND:
Jurisdictions can adopt local amendments to the State Energy Code and Green Building Code, or “reach codes,” to 
promote more sustainable construction and advance climate goals. The City of San Mateo has a strong history of adopting 
reach codes and being a leader in sustainability. Staff are currently monitoring potential reach code opportunities for the 
2025 Code Cycle. 
Every triennial code cycle, the California Building Code (CalGreen) contains voluntary measures, essentially reach codes, 
that jurisdictions can adopt. The 2025 CalGreen draft language proposes a voluntary measure requiring new or replaced air 
conditioning systems in existing residential buildings to be heat pump systems as the primary option. In other words, the 
City of San Mateo could voluntarily adopt this measure as part of the triennial code cycle later this year, in which case it 
would become a mandatory requirement.  However, the proposed resolution only commits the City to exploring the 
measure in connection with gathering community and stakeholder input.  
Heat pump systems are often referred to as two-way air conditioners since they provide both heating and cooling 
functions. An alternate path to compliance is the installation of an air conditioner that is installed along with six other 
efficiency measures including duct insulation, air sealing, and ceiling insulation. 
The California Energy Commission (CEC) is seeking early support in exploring this CalGreen voluntary measure detailed 
above. The City of San Mateo reaffirms its commitment to reviewing reach code opportunities for the 2025 Code Cycle, 
including this CalGreen voluntary measure. Robust reach code analysis, along with community and stakeholder 
engagement, is a priority for Spring and Summer 2025 as staff aims for reach code adoption concurrent with the updated 
Building Code adoption, which would tentatively occur in Fall 2025. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Resolution is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result 
in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
193 of 448

--- page 194 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
194 of 448

--- page 195 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2025)
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AFFIRMING ITS COMMITMENT TO EXPLORE REACH CODES, 
INCLUDING CALGREEN VOLUNTARY MEASURES, FOR THE 2025 CODE CYCLE TO ADVANCE THE CITY’S CLIMATE 
GOALS
WHEREAS, jurisdictions can adopt local amendments to the State Energy Code and Green Building Code, 
also known as “reach codes,” to push for more sustainable construction and advance climate goals; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has a strong history of adopting reach codes and being a leader in 
sustainability; and
WHEREAS, the draft 2025 California Green Building Code (CalGreen) contains a proposed voluntary 
measure that would require a new or replaced air conditioning system in existing residential buildings to be a 
heat pump system as a primary path; and
WHEREAS, the California Energy Commission is seeking early support in exploring this CalGreen 
voluntary measure; and
WHEREAS, staff are currently monitoring reach code opportunities for the 2025 Code Cycle including 
this CalGreen voluntary measure; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES its 
commitment to review and explore reach code opportunities for the 2025 Code Cycle, including the CalGreen 
voluntary measure, after obtaining public input, to advance the City’s climate goals. 
195 of 448

--- page 196 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-9811
File ID: 25-9572
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2025 
SUBJECT:
SEIU Maintenance Unit Memorandum of Understanding Side Letter – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving a Side Letter to the Memorandum of Understanding with the SEIU Maintenance Unit to 
include a temporary increase in the compensatory time leave cap for Wastewater Treatment Operators.
BACKGROUND:
The SEIU Maintenance Unit (SEIU Maintenance) represents approximately ten (10) Wastewater Treatment Operators. The 
Wastewater Treatment Plant is moving to a new plant with new technology, which will require extensive staff training. 
Furthermore, staff is working a significant amount of overtime to provide staff coverage due to current vacancies which 
are in the process of being filled. To address these concerns, the City and SEIU Maintenance have agreed to increase the 
compensatory limit leave cap from eighty (80) hours to one hundred (100) hours through December 31, 2026. This will 
enable employees to use their compensatory time leave balances and reduce such balances in a reasonable amount of 
time. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The change to provide additional compensatory time on a temporary basis to Wastewater Treatment Operators would not 
have an effect this fiscal year. However, a negligible impact is expected when the agreement ends, and excess hours are 
cashed out.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This side letter is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 — Proposed Resolution
Exhibit A — Side Letter
STAFF CONTACT
Yumi Maeda, Senior Human Resource Analyst
ymaeda@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7279
196 of 448

--- page 197 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. __ (2025)
APPROVING THE LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND SEIU MAINTENANCE 
UNIT
WHEREAS, the proposed changes are to provide an increase to the cap on compensatory time on a 
temporary basis to Wastewater Treatment Operators while transitioning to a new wastewater treatment plant.
WHEREAS, the SEIU Maintenance Side Letter is attached hereto as Exhibit A; and all exhibits are 
incorporated by reference; and
WHEREAS, the union has been informed of the side letter and has not brought forth any objections or 
concerns.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
This Side Letter is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does 
not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant 
physical impact on the environment (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378 (b)4).)
2.
The SEIU Maintenance Side Letter attached hereto as Exhibit A is approved.
197 of 448

--- page 198 ---
Exhibit A
Side Letter of Understanding Between the City of San Mateo (“City”) and the SEIU Local 521, 
Maintenance Unit
Re: Temporary Increase in Compensatory Time
The purpose of this Side Letter is to increase compensatory time for Wastewater Treatment Operators on 
a temporary basis.
7.5 Compensatory Time in Lieu of Overtime 
As allowable under the Fair Labor Standards Act, a worker may waive direct payment of overtime and 
in lieu thereof may accumulate time off at the time and one-half 1½ rate to a maximum of eighty (80) 
hours.  Such time off shall be taken at the discretion of the Department Head, with due regard for the 
desires of the worker and the workload of the department.
Effective the first full pay period following Council adoption through December 31, 2026, the maximum 
compensatory time in lieu of overtime of eighty (80) hours for the Wastewater Treatment Operators will 
increase to one hundred (100) hours temporarily due to the newly developed Wastewater Treatment 
Plant.  Effective January 1, 2027, the maximum will revert back to eighty (80) hours and any hours in 
excess of eighty (80) will be cashed out.
_____________________
_____________________
SEIU Local 521, Maintenance Unit
City of San Mateo
Eric Rosenthal
Aracelia Esparza, HR Director
_____________________
_____________________
 Date
Date
198 of 448

--- page 199 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
Account Number: 10-4661-01
File ID: 24-9503
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Alex Khojikian, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
February 3, 2025 
SUBJECT:
North Central Bike Lanes Project — Direction 
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction on addressing community impacts of the North Central Bike Lanes project.  
BACKGROUND:
North Central Bike Lanes Project
The City receives federal funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Community 
Development Block Grant (CDBG) program and allocates the funds based on community priorities. A portion of the funds 
are available for infrastructure improvements, including paving, bicycle, and pedestrian projects. In Fiscal Year 2020-21, 
$900,000 in CDBG funding, along with $1,000,000 in local funding, was allocated to the North Central neighborhood for 2.3 
miles of pavement rehabilitation, installation of curb ramps, proposed Class II bicycle lanes and bicycle boulevards, traffic 
striping, roadway signage, and traffic signal video detection equipment in the North Central neighborhood. 
 
The bicycle improvements proposed in the project (the North Central Bike Lanes Project, or Project) were identified in the 
adopted 2020 Bicycle Master Plan (Plan) and included the Humboldt Street bicycle lanes (2nd highest priority project in the 
Plan) and the Poplar Avenue/Delaware Street/Indian Avenue bicycle lanes and bicycle boulevard (4th highest priority 
project). The Project included approximately 1.3 miles of Class II bicycle lanes on Humboldt Street between 5th Avenue and 
Peninsula Avenue and required the removal of approximately 170 parking spaces. Also included was a section on Poplar 
Avenue from El Camino Real to Humboldt Street that included 0.50 miles of Class II bike lanes and 0.25 miles of a bicycle 
boulevard and required the removal of approximately 40 parking spaces.  
 
In October 2021, Council approved construction on some of the work, including sidewalk ramps, but not the bicycle 
infrastructure due to the impacts on the North Central neighborhood from the parking removal. Council directed staff to 
collect new parking information, evaluate potential additional parking supply options to mitigate the impacts, and to 
conduct additional community outreach. Staff was directed to return to the City’s Sustainability and Infrastructure 
Commission (Commission) and Council in February 2022 with findings from these efforts for comment and direction on the 
implementation of the bicycle improvements proposed in the Project. At that meeting, Council voted 3-2 to proceed with 
installing the bike lanes and construction was completed in July 2022. The Agenda Report from the February 2022 meeting 
is attached for reference regarding parking supply data, community input, and feedback from the Commission.  
North Central Complete Streets Plan
On March 20, 2023, while receiving an update on the Citywide Complete Streets Plan, Council directed staff to create a 
separate plan focused on North Central, titled the North Central Complete Streets Plan (NCCSP), that would evaluate 
mobility, parking availability, circulation, and safety needs. Council’s direction to create the NCCSP was in response to the 
community impacts caused by parking removal to accommodate the Project. Staff contracted with Fehr and Peers to 
199 of 448

--- page 200 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
develop the NCCSP with the goal of creating a community-driven plan to determine how to best allocate right-of-way in 
North Central for all modes of transportation while improving transportation safety. After more than a year of outreach 
and engagement with the community that included community workshops, pop-ups, focused Lived Experience Group 
workshops, focus groups to Spanish communities, and individual meetings with community champions a draft priority list 
was created that consisted of fourteen (14) projects/programs that can be summarized in four categories: speed calming, 
circulation improvements, mobility/parking improvements, and other infrastructure improvements such as streetlighting 
and pavement resurfacing. During the development of the NCCSP, the community continued to echo the need for parking 
in North Central and frustrations with the bike lanes installation.  
The NCCSP is currently on hold for multiple reasons, including the need for Council direction on the Humboldt Bike Lanes 
as part of this agenda item, Council’s recent action to cancel the Peninsula Interchange Project that requires other 
approaches to address the circulation and safety needs that were the drivers for that project, the need to understand 
circulation impacts of one or more potential rail crossing closures on the western edge of the North Central neighborhood 
as the City pursues creation of a Train Horn Quiet Zone, and the need to plan for bi-jurisdictional improvements for vehicle 
circulation and bicycle/pedestrian safety on Peninsula Avenue. All these issues have an impact on the North Central 
community but were not part of the NCCSP scope or direct topics of discussion during the outreach and engagement 
efforts. Additional funding will be necessary to update the NCCSP in light of these changes.   
Post-Installation Public Feedback
Concurrent with approval of the Project, Council directed staff to explore options to help ease the impacts of the parking 
reduction brought up during the outreach phase. Following outreach conducted in Summer 2022, staff created the King 
Center Overnight Parking program, added a free driveway red tipping and blue curb (disabled parking) program for North 
Central residents, and opened an option for homeowners to legally park in front of their own driveway without citation. 
Even with these programs in place, community members consistently voice ongoing concerns regarding lack of parking, 
proximity of parking relative to their homes, vehicles speeding, and low bicycle usage following the installation of the bike 
lanes on Humboldt Street. 
Staff has explored the option of overnight or weekend parking at the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) lot at 425 N. 
Amphlett Boulevard, the San Mateo County Superior Court at 800 N. Humboldt Street, and other government agency 
parking lots in North Central, but heard feedback from the community that these may not offer wide benefits to those on 
Humboldt Street due to the distance many residents would need to walk to access this parking. In addition, staff 
determined that the interagency parking leasing agreements could be resource-intensive, costly, and may not offer 
practical hours of operation for residents. 
In the summer of 2024, in response to ongoing community concerns and City Council interest at the June 17, 2024 City 
Council meeting related to the Project, staff began investigating additional ways to address community concerns. In 
October 2024, staff met with the smaller North Central Lived Experience Group that was part of the North Central 
Complete Streets Plan to discuss the bike lanes on Humboldt Street and potential alternatives to the existing conditions 
that might help alleviate impacts. 
On December 4th, 2024, staff hosted a larger community workshop where 110+ residents attended in person to provide 
input on the bike lanes on Humboldt Street, post installation. Staff wanted to know 1) how have the Humboldt Street bike 
lanes impacted community members, 2) what improvements would make Humboldt Street safer for walking, biking, or 
driving and 3) what are community thoughts on a bicycle boulevard (where bicycles and vehicles share the same travel 
lane, as opposed to having dedicated vehicle/bike lanes) alternative on Humboldt Street to lower speeds, accommodate 
cyclists, and restore parking. Staff provided a high-level presentation, but the bulk of the workshop focused on breakout 
groups with 13 individual tables with a staff or outreach consultant facilitator. Spanish-only tables were provided, as well 
as childcare services and dinner for attendees. Facilitators encouraged attendees to answer each of the three questions on 
the form/survey provided so staff would know whether the response is from a resident living on Humboldt Street, within 
200 of 448

--- page 201 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the greater North Central neighborhood, or within another neighborhood or jurisdiction. All feedback gathered during the 
breakout session was reported out table by table at the end of the meeting to ensure all attendees heard the range of 
input. 
Out of the 110 attendees that signed in at the meeting, 66 attendees filled out the form/survey. Staff received hundreds of 
data points and bundled the feedback into three groups 1) residents living on Humboldt Street, 2) North Central residents 
(not living on Humboldt Street) and 3) residents from other neighborhoods. Below is a summary of how the 66 attendees 
responded to the three questions.  
1.
How have the Humboldt Street bike lanes impacted you? 76 percent of residents living on Humboldt Street 
reported a negative impact from the bike lanes, with an overwhelmingly large percentage stating the reduction of 
parking being the issue. 41 percent of North Central residents (not living on Humboldt Street) said the bike lanes 
were positive and glad to see bike infrastructure being provided in the community. 69 percent of residents from 
other neighborhoods/jurisdictions reported a positive impact from the bike lanes, citing safer and increased bike 
infrastructure. There were also community bicyclists that did not feel the Humboldt Street bike lanes provide good 
connectivity and they often use other routes to go North-South. 
2.
What improvements would make you feel safer walking, biking, or driving on Humboldt Street? The responses 
were consistent throughout all three groups in that speed calming measures and lighting improvements are their 
top two requests in making the North Central neighborhood feel safer. 
3.
What are your thoughts on a bicycle boulevard alternative to lower speeds, accommodate cyclists, and restore 
parking on Humboldt Street?  All three groups were inconsistent on their opinion on a bicycle boulevard 
alternative on Humboldt Street. 33 percent of residents from Humboldt Street had a negative opinion on the 
alternative, 19 percent were positive, and 48 percent were either mixed or declined to provide a response. The 
same inconsistency applied for the North Central residents not living on Humboldt Street and residents from other 
communities. Qualitatively, all three groups had concerns of whether speed calming devices would be effective in 
slowing speeds on Humboldt Street. Another concern is if speed calming devices are effective on Humboldt Street, 
vehicles might choose to traverse smaller, more narrow parallel side streets to go faster. 
Residential Permit Parking Program (RPPP)
Several attendees requested feedback on the creation of an RPPP on or near Humboldt Street to help alleviate the parking 
issue in the community. This would require a change to the City‘s existing RPPP policy to implement, and there is the 
potential for undesirable negative impacts to some households. A summary of staff’s findings is below:
•
Policy Limitations: The City’s current policy allows RPPP in areas within residential neighborhoods where on-street 
parking is impacted by parked cars from non-residents, or parking generators such as a school, business, 
commercial district or commercial use. According to the current policy, all of Humboldt Street would not be 
eligible for an RPPP. If an RPPP is desired, the current policy must be amended, or a North Central neighborhood-
specific permit parking program would need to be developed.  
•
Limited On-Street Supply: From the feedback gathered from the community pre- and post-Project, staff estimates 
there are on average 2-3+ vehicles per household. Some community members in North Central currently use on-
street facilities to park commercial business vehicles, which would not be permitted under the current RPPP policy. 
For the program to be effective, a per-house limit on issued permits would need to be determined. This could 
potentially have negative consequences for dense households and members of the community relying on on-
street parking to satisfy their needs. 
•
Capital, Maintenance, and Upkeep: If an RPPP is established in North Central around Humboldt Street, it would be 
the City’s largest RPPP area and require a large initial capital investment to establish signage throughout the 
community. On-going costs will include permit issuance, permit renewal, enforcement, and sign maintenance. 
201 of 448

--- page 202 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
If Council is interested in developing an RPPP for North Central, staff recommends further engagement with the 
community on how such a program could be structured to provide community-desired benefit.  
Bike Lane Usage
Staff collected bicycle usage data on a weekday during peak hours (7:00AM – 9:00AM and 4:00PM – 6:00PM) to get a 
sense of the bicycle usage on Humboldt Street. Data were collected using a video-based system that automatically detects 
bicyclists entering an intersection that is then confirmed by a human operator. Staff chose eight (8) intersections on 
Humboldt Street to study, including Peninsula Avenue, Poplar Avenue, Indian Avenue, Monte Diablo Avenue, Tilton 
Avenue, 3rd Avenue, 4th Avenue, and 5th Avenue. During the hours of collection, Peninsula Avenue had the lowest number 
of bicyclists enter the intersection at nine (9) trips and Tilton Avenue saw the most with 65 trips entering the intersection. 
Overall, there were a total of 212 trips entering the eight intersections. Out of the 212 trips, approximately 84 percent of 
the trips (179 trips) were either coming from Humboldt Street or turning onto Humboldt Street. The remaining 16 percent 
(33 trips) were crossing Humboldt. 
Collision Data
Staff compiled collision data from the City’s internal police records on Humboldt Street for the same eight (8) intersections 
where staff collected bicycle usage (Peninsula Avenue, Poplar Avenue, Indian Avenue, Monte Diablo Avenue, Tilton 
Avenue, 3rd Avenue, 4th Avenue, and 5th Avenue) from 2017 – October 2024. The data show a total of 348 incidents, with 
238 (68.4 percent) being vehicle-to-vehicle incidents, 11 (3.2 percent) involving pedestrians, 1 (0.3 percent) involving a 
bicyclist, and 98 (28.2 percent) being property damage-related. 5th Avenue saw the lowest number of incidents, with a 
total of eight (8), whereas East Poplar saw the highest number of incidents, with a total of 83. Of the eight (8) intersections 
studied, the only intersection with a bicycle incident was 4th Avenue, which occurred in 2019, prior to the installation of 
the bike lanes. Staff have approximately 7 years of total internal collision data, 5 of those years were prior to the bike lane 
installation and only 2 years post installation. There isn’t sufficient post-installation data to make accurate comparisons to 
pre-installation data. Staff will present more insights into the collision data during the presentation. 
Potential Alternatives
Staff explored a range of potential alternatives to address community concerns about safety and the loss of parking on 
Humboldt Street for Council consideration, as described below. 
Alternative #1 - Keep As-Is: This alternative retains the Class II bike lanes on Humboldt Street and does not restore any 
parking. This option maintains existing bike infrastructure, which allows for consistent North-South bike travel from 5th 
Avenue to Peninsula Avenue on Humboldt Street. This option does not address the comments from the community about 
the need to increase parking supply. 
Alternative #2 - Bicycle Boulevard on Humboldt Street: This alternative entails removal of the existing Class II bike lanes 
on Humboldt Street and replacing with a bike boulevard with level 2 and 3 traffic calming devices. This alternative restores 
the approximately 170 parking spaces on Humboldt Street from Peninsula Avenue to 5th Avenue which were lost after the 
bike lanes were installed. Removal of the bike lanes and restoration of parking requires grinding of existing center lane 
lines and bike lanes, pavement restoration, and restriping and signing parking stalls. 
To create a bike boulevard, level 2 and 3 traffic calming devices would need to be installed that include hardscape 
improvements to slow down vehicle speeds such as raised crosswalks, speed cushions, and curb extensions. This requires a 
significant capital investment to reduce vehicle speeds on Humboldt Street to levels safe enough for vehicles and bicycles 
to share the same travel lanes (e.g., 20 mph). A significant concern is whether enough speed calming measures can be 
implemented to bring speeds down sufficiently to make bicyclists feel safe. Since Humboldt Street is considered an arterial 
with the predominant mode being vehicles, a potential outcome of turning Humboldt Street into a bicycle boulevard is the 
202 of 448

--- page 203 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
possibility for vehicles to choose parallel north-south streets as cut-through (i.e., Idaho Street and S. Grant Street) to avoid 
the speed calming measures. The benefit of this alternative is it restores parking on both sides of Humboldt Street while 
accommodating vehicles and bicycles on Humboldt Street as the most direct north-south option from Peninsula to 5th 
Avenue. Another benefit is it also addresses community concerns regarding speeding on Humboldt Street. 
Below are high-level cost and implementation schedule estimates for this alternative.
•
Humboldt Street Bike Lane Removal and Parking Restoration (Design and Construction)
o
Cost: ~$850,000
o
Schedule: 6 months – 1 year
•
Humboldt Street Bike Boulevard (Design and Construction)
o
Cost: ~$2.2M
o
Schedule: 1 – 3 years+
Alternative #3 - Partial Removal of Bike Lanes, and Establishment of a Bike Boulevard on a Parallel Street: This 
alternative is broken down into a short-term plan and a long-term plan. 
•
Humboldt Street Parking Restoration (2nd Avenue to Indian Avenue Only): The short-term plan would be to 
restore parking on Humboldt Street from 2nd Avenue to Indian Avenue (approximately 100 parking spaces 
restored) and establish a north-south street parallel to Humboldt Street as a pilot bike boulevard between 2nd 
Avenue and Indian Avenue. Staff do not recommend removal of the bike lanes north of Indian Avenue or south of 
2nd Avenue because there are no immediate solutions to maintain bike connectivity in these zones outside of 
Humboldt Street. In addition, north of Indian Avenue, the land uses on the west side of Humboldt Street (where 
parking is not provided) are significantly different, with San Mateo Foster City School District and San Mateo Union 
High School sites and the Woodlake Condominium complex, all of which have their own on-site parking facilities, 
making restoration of parking less of an issue in that segment. Again, removal of a portion of the existing facilities 
requires grinding of lane markings, pavement restoration, and new parking striping and signage.  
o
Cost: ~$620,000
o
Schedule: 6 months – 1 year
•
Pilot Parallel Bike Boulevard:  Fremont and Idaho Street are likely candidates for a parallel bike boulevard 
treatment. Fremont Street offers advantages in that it connects into a future class IV on 3rd Avenue, a bike 
boulevard on Monte Diablo, and an existing bike boulevard on Indian Avenue. It also has direct connection to 
three main neighborhood destinations, including Gateway Park, the Martin Luther King Jr Community Center, and 
College Park. However, Idaho Street is closer to Humboldt Street and offers a more direct north-south bike route, 
making it more accessible for less-experienced cyclists. Implementation of a bike boulevard on either street 
requires more community vetting. Staff recommends that a bike boulevard be piloted on Idaho Street in the short 
term but follow up with community outreach and vetting for bike boulevards on both streets to pick the best 
candidate for a permanent bike boulevard. Similar to creating a bike boulevard on Humboldt Street, a bike 
boulevard on a parallel route requires installation of speed calming measures, but to a much lesser degree due to 
the local roadway characteristic versus an arterial. These measures would likely be limited to periodic speed 
cushions, which would be temporary installations for the pilot phase (i.e., bolt-down speed cushions).  
o
Pilot Idaho or Fremont Street Bike Boulevard (Design and Construction): $150K - $300K
o
Schedule: 6 months – 1 year 
•
Long-Term Plan: The long-term plan would require a connectivity study in the North Central neighborhood to 
reanalyze destinations within the community and see how to improve bike connectivity north of Indian Avenue 
and south of 2nd Avenue and further within the North Central neighborhood. A potential benefit of this alternative 
is it expands on the bicycle infrastructure in the community by leveraging multiple streets in both the north-south 
and east-west directions. Below are cost and implementation schedule estimates for this alternative. Staff 
recommends the analysis phase of the long-term plan be incorporated into completion of the NCCSP.  
o
Qualitative Connectivity Study: ~$60,000
203 of 448

--- page 204 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
o
Permanent North Central Bike Boulevard: ~$1M+
o
Schedule: 1 - 3 years
Alternative #4 - Restore Parking with No Bike Infrastructure: This alternative restores the approximately 170 parking 
spaces on Humboldt Street from Peninsula Avenue to 5th Avenue which were lost after the bike lanes were installed and 
removes all bike lanes. The benefit of this alternative is it restores a significant portion of the parking supply removed by 
the Project. The downside is that it significantly reduces bicycle connectivity in North Central. Below are cost and 
implementation schedule estimates for this alternative. Again, removal of the bike lanes requires grinding, pavement 
restoration, and striping/signage.
•
Humboldt Street Bike Lane Removal and Parking Restoration (Design and Construction)
o
Cost: ~$850,000
o
Schedule: 6 months – 1 year
Alternative #5 - Streetlighting Upgrades: This alternative includes upgrading existing cobrahead streetlight fixtures to a 
brighter fixture, similar to what is used on collector and arterial streets. This alternative will help address the comments 
from the community about the need to increase lighting levels but may have the negative effect of additional light spilling 
over onto residential property and/or into residents’ homes. North Central roadways vary in classification from local to 
arterial, but in terms of width, they all resemble a local street to a low collector, so any upgrading of streetlights to the 
type of lighting used on collectors and arterials will result in spill-over light. Depending on Council’s direction, initial 
streetlighting upgrades based on community feedback and the potential for a pilot bike boulevard include Humboldt 
Street from Peninsula to 5th Avenue, Fremont Street from 3rd Avenue to Indian Avenue, and Idaho Street from 3rd Avenue 
to Indian Avenue. Below are cost and implementation schedule estimates for this alternative. Costs include replacing 
existing lighting fixtures with higher intensity fixtures.  
•
Streetlighting Cost
o
Street #1 - Humboldt Street Streetlighting Upgrade: ~$45,000
o
Street #2 - Fremont Street Streetlighting Upgrade: ~$25,000
o
Street #3 - Idaho Street Streetlighting Upgrade: ~$20,000
•
Schedule for All: 
o
3 - 6 Months
Should the Council choose not to maintain the existing bike infrastructure on Humboldt, staff recommends the following 
alternatives for consideration:
1.
Engage the community to further evaluate Alternative #3: Partial Removal of Bike Lanes, and Establishment of a 
Bike Boulevard on Parallel Street. This alternative would largely address the parking comments from the 
community as it restores approximately 60 percent (100 parking spaces) of the parking on Humboldt Street that 
was removed from the Humboldt Street Bike Lane project. It would also address the comments from the 
community of wanting to maintain some level of bike connectivity within the community, thereby giving assurance 
to the community about future investments in the community to further improve safety and bike connectivity. 
Staff’s recommendation would be to pursue a pilot bike boulevard on Idaho Street or Fremont Street given their 
proximity to Humboldt Street. Alternative #3 would cost approximately $900,000 to restore parking and include a 
pilot bike boulevard on a parallel street to Humboldt, staff recommends further vetting of a north-south bike 
boulevard with the North Central and cycling communities. The long-term plan would cost approximately $1M to 
perform a connectivity study and establish additional bicycle routes in North Central. Prior to engaging with the 
community, conceptual level designs would be developed to better understand and communicate those 
alternatives to the community before coming back before the Council for consideration. 
2.
Proceed forward with Alternative #5: Streetlighting Upgrades, on Humboldt Street and Idaho Street or Fremont 
Street, depending on the final pilot bike boulevard street. This would address the second largest community 
204 of 448

--- page 205 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
concern on what would make the residents feel safer when walking, biking or driving on Humboldt Street, improved street 
lighting. Alternative #5 would cost approximately $70,000 to upgrade streetlighting on Humboldt Street and a future street 
with the pilot bike boulevard. 
Next Steps:
Depending on Council’s direction, staff would need to come back at a future meeting to request Council’s appropriation of 
funds to engage the community and conduct conceptual design efforts to evaluate the preferred alternative. Following this 
vetting process, staff would return to Council to request for an appropriation to implement a selected alternative. 
As noted above, additional funding will also be necessary for the NCCSP to address changed conditions, including any 
changes to the Humboldt Bike Lanes, the canceled Peninsula Interchange Project, circulation changes which may result 
from the Train Horn Quiet Zone, and the need to plan for bi-jurisdictional improvements for vehicle circulation and 
bicycle/pedestrian safety on Peninsula Avenue. This appropriation will also be requested at a future meeting. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
 An agenda item will be added to a future Council meeting to appropriate funds. Cost estimates above are high-level 
estimates and staff may develop more refined estimates for preferred alternatives prior to coming back to Council. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Council item in providing direction for the use of the street and bicycle facilities along Humboldt Street is exempt from 
CEQA review as an “existing facility,” because it consists of the operation, repair, maintenance, permitting, leasing, 
licensing, or minor alteration of existing public or private structures, facilities, mechanical equipment, or topographical 
features, involving negligible or no expansion of existing or former use. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15301.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – February 22, 2022, North Central Bike Lanes Agenda Report
Att 2 – Public Comment 
STAFF CONTACT
Jay Yu, Engineering Manager
jyu@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7323
205 of 448

--- page 206 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO City Hall

330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org

Agenda Report

Agenda Number: 13 Section Name: [{section.name}} File ID: {{item.tracking_number}}
TO: City Council
FROM: Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY: Public Works Department
MEETING DATE: February 22, 2022
SUBJECT:

North Central Bike Lanes Project — Update

RECOMMENDATION:

Receive an update on the North Central Bike Lanes Project which includes Humboldt Street, Poplar Avenue, and Delaware
Street bicycle lanes and the Indian Avenue bicycle boulevard and provide direction to staff regarding implementation of
the bike lanes and potential support programs.

BACKGROUND:

The City receives federal funding from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) program and allocates the funds based on community priorities. A portion of the funds
are available for infrastructure improvements, including paving, bicycle, and pedestrian projects. This year, the 2020-21
CDBG Project (Project) covers 2.3 miles of pavement rehabilitation, installation of curb ramps, proposed Class II bicycle
lanes and bicycle boulevards, traffic striping, roadway signage, and traffic signal video detection equipment in the North
Central neighborhood. The bicycle improvements proposed in the project are identified in the adopted 2020 Bicycle
Master Plan (Plan) and include the Humboldt Street bicycle lanes (2nd highest priority project in the Plan) and the Poplar
Avenue/Delaware Street/Indian Avenue bicycle lanes and bicycle boulevard (4th highest priority project). Implementation
of the bicycle infrastructure requires the removal of 214 parking spaces due to limited roadway widths.

In October 2021, Council approved the construction contract for award and authorized staff to begin some of the work,
including sidewalk ramps, but not the bicycle infrastructure due to the impacts on the North Central neighborhood from
the parking removal. Council directed staff to collect new parking information, evaluate potential additional parking supply
options to mitigate the impacts, and to conduct additional community outreach. Staff was directed to return to the
Commission and Council in February 2022 with findings from these efforts for comment and direction on the
implementation of the bicycle improvements proposed in the Project.

Project Objectives
In 2020, Council adopted the City’s Bicycle Master Plan, which includes projects and programs centered on five key goals:

Connectivity; Safety and Comfort; Community; Equity; and Ridership. Since 2017, there have been 30 collisions
(approximately 30% of the total number of collisions in San Mateo) involving bicyclists in the North Central neighborhood.
Of the 30, 11 collisions have occurred along the Project’s corridor (11% of all Citywide bicycle-involved collisions). This
Project proposes to fill bicycle network connectivity gaps and aims to improve safety on corridors with a history of
bicyclist-involved collisions. Due to the vehicle volumes and speeds on the local roadways, industry guidance indicates a
separate Class II bike lane as the appropriate bicycle facility for these roads rather than shared lanes. The Project also
provides east-west connectivity to areas east of US 101 via the Monte Diablo bicycle and pedestrian bridge and the 34
Avenue overcrossing. With the bicycle infrastructure, the Project would provide an opportunity for safe and sustainable
transportation options in the North Central neighborhood designed for users to reach key destinations in the City and

CITY OF SAN MATEO
206 of 448


--- page 207 ---


--- page 208 ---


--- page 209 ---


--- page 210 ---


--- page 211 ---


--- page 212 ---


--- page 213 ---
213 of 448

--- page 214 ---


--- page 215 ---
Petitions Signed to Stop Removal of Parking Spaces

Trina M Pierce
To:

Date: Tuesday, February 22, 2022, 10:39 AM PST

From:

From: Trina Pierce

Petitions Turned in on Friday to City Hall
545 (194 was from online)
Today turning in paper Copies, new Signatures 105

Total of online petitions as of 2/22 is 213 (minus 194
turned in = 19)

545 Already scanned by City
113 New Signatures
19 Updated amount Online

Total 669
PS RECEIVED

lan 2 1 REC'D
rrpnarire City Councit
Item ri Pee ' ec Commer l
From: [71s CCE

215 of 448


--- page 216 ---
favor of the removal oF a a-274 parking Spaces to

accommodate the eke Lane fo De established

primarily on rumbolat Street & surrounding streets ip
North Central

Please use 2 nes to list

Your email & phone number

SR ee yer

| Name a es ! - | Addeitess (printed)

Bad z t ie J
» ems j

Bx 216 of 448
He :


--- page 217 ---
We the undersigned residents of San fh jateo are NOT in

favor of the removal of 172-214 parking spaces to
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be established
primarily on Humboldt Street & Surrounding streets in

North Centra!

Please use 2 lines to list your email & shone number



--- page 218 ---
We the undersigned residents of San Mz aiec are NOT in
favor of the removal of ! /2-214 parking spaces to
accommodate the New Bike Lane fo be established
primarily on Humboldt Street & surrounding streets in

North Centra

Please use 2 |, lines éo list your email & phone number

i rr
si a eee eh eae ele IE he rare tre,
aoe perenne arc ~~ - SUE cae
}

t
Signatures

| Acidiress foriniect!

| Nese fodnted}

ca: fn ia

ely
WZ NE Kean set}
Arnie Lobe a
Bulyolinsea
Cain via Bi Ww)
ated Maen bA6 es a
‘Kagel vous |
Meine Reem |
Yodel Kem,

es he, Pul,|

wes, IX

anita RE nan et

ij
|

“ i .
“Uti

TOA & “ 218 of 448


--- page 219 ---
Nosotros, ios residenies abaja firmantes de of
San Mateo, no estamos a favor de la eliminacion
de 172-214 espacios de estacionamiento para
acomodar el nuevo carril de bicicletas que se
propone establecer principalmente por la
Humboldt Street y otras calles en el area de
North Central

| Nombre (impresa) T Direccion {impresa), | irma

Le s.etche See hehe

dese WS. Rome FO

ll

| Made Zhite. Lf -

Belees Le
i

ee a AMO rr
'
rf

LANDY 2 |
/ e
[Zs Pay tn / Vey Lye

| ooh ta ct tla

y Vena Severo. é
Max sedan

iL S
Hata J ¥e ia i

Foe a a
a oo

ry
“2 219 of 448


--- page 220 ---
Ve the undersigned residents of San Wiateo are NOT in
favor of the PEMOVAl OF 172-294 p ing spaces to
accommodate the Ney ike Lane to De established
Primarily on Humboldt Street 2 surrounding streets in
North Centra}

Please use 2 lines to list your email 2 phone number
| —

| Name tents Adoirass loxintect

i

-— Meni agli rene ersteetepstctert be ecugta adnan ar ar

220 of 448


--- page 221 ---
favor of ‘tie re emoval of . 62-2144 parking Spaces to

ce a ie ime © New B

=a

Signaturé &

emai h Simon ; |

tat Ral? !

Loneting P| lsc
ee Le

tl Liesoy,

‘isons is nate wu ¢ fa.



--- page 222 ---
Nosotros, los residentes abaja firmantes de of
San Mateo, no estamos a favor de ia eliminacion
de 172-214 espacios de estacionamiento para
acomodar el nuevo carril de bicicletas que se
propone establecer principalmente por la
Humboldt Street y otras calles en 6! area de
North Central

A ERS O6 Visau -

tie rman ace ns te eee

] :
 Wicaene Key

fat See
i

t

|
RET rel
|

‘Davie Key eS

Se F

eh |
ia

TT eg 999 of 44g


--- page 223 ---
Nosotros, ios residentes abaja firmantes. de c of
san Mateo, no estamos a favor de la eliminacion .
de 172-214 espacios de estacionamiento para
acomodar el nuevo carril de bicicletas que se
propone establecer principalmente por fa
Humboldt Street y otras calles en e| area de

rs

Pree 2 FCT AS Se

 Direccion impresa)

: "Fitna

is
{
nine a
|

ee

J 993 of 448


--- page 224 ---
We the undersigned residents of San Mateo are NO NOT in
favor of tie removal of a: te-2 14 parking spaces fo
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be established
Primarily on Humboldt Street & Surrounding streets in
North Central

Please use 2 lines to list your email & phone number

PSgaciure

i
eit ea Oe at tO ya the get wpaens oeceaspat meamnbe ao annul
i

Ra i a aa na eee eg ee - LESSEE et ER Rt etna opera aaa!
t

+

‘ 1

- -!

Eat

¢4 rk : 224 of 448



--- page 225 ---
aise are NOT in
favor of the removal of 172-214 Parking spaces to
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be established
primarily on Humboldt Street & surrounding streets in
North Centra!

Please use 2? lines

io jist your :

ferrets

225 of 448


--- page 226 ---
We the undersigned residents of San Meteo ara NOT in
favor of the removal of 172-214 parking spaces to
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be esteblishec
primarily on Humboidt Street & surrounding streets in
North Central

Please use 2 lines to list your email & phone number

EEC TOEC AP METECE ISOPEN

226 of 448


--- page 227 ---
ents of San Mateo are in
favor of the removal of 172-274 parking spaces ta
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be established
primarily on Humboldt Street & Surrounding streets in
North Centrai

ei ter

Ple#se use 2 lines to list your amail & phone number

ee a —

|

SA a neta tpn ae tenet hae a a i

E
i ce HALES

frre He

Aiicress finted!

SO crue ton ni et aetna ay

227 of 448


--- page 228 ---
Mateo are NOT in

favor of the removal or (2-214 parking spaces to
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be éstablished
Primarily on Humboldt Street & Suirounding streets in

North Central

Please use 2 lines to fist ¥Our email & phone number

oa ee fprinted} SORE

/}

lode

228 of 448


--- page 229 ---
We the undersigned residents of San Mateo are NOT in

favor of the removal deal * f2-274 parking spaces fo
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be established
Primarily on Humboldt Street & Surrounding streets in
North Central

Please use 2 lines to list your email & phone number

Laima

Name fevinted)
Ket { Barwivad

i MGT UES

| Actress (prin teed} , sig

es _
LZ Redes [et he of
Thaw E pen es

 D

_ [oie ond Son. |
yy: “uy bbe, i acne

; é g. i oy
Petes ef itea D),

hal ae

| Sus! fey urpley

fi Ade. 229 of 448

SR lt
rn ses es
ee


--- page 230 ---
Ae ari her i

a

EM icc er Perrin aor Sipura

es

Hp ate eres

hone i.

Sire

ae

]

230 of 448


--- page 231 ---
| Nosotros, los residentes abaja firmantes de of
san Mateo, no estamos a favor de la eliminacion
de 172-214 espacios de estacionamiento para
acomodar el nuevo carril de bicicletas que se
propone establecer principalmente por ja
nMumboldt Street y otras calles en el area de
North Central

sore ee

| Nombre (impresa) “| Bireceion (impresa)

bs aT Be a b mapeprena rr iM menate m toret tc asi msia ut eh cwisco a sessment
£

931 of 448


--- page 232 ---
Ve the undersigned residents of San Mateo

favor of the removal of 172-244 Parking spaces to
accommodate the Nev Bike Lane to be established
Primarily on Humboldt Street & Surrounding streets ip
Nerth Centra}

[ore

be

: ee am
BF pl see

eter ane 4

nee 232 of 448
‘FE act :


--- page 233 ---
favor of the removal of 1 '2-214 pa
accommodate the New &

rking spaces to
ike Lane to be established
Primarily on Humboldt Street & Surrounding streets in
North Centra!

Please use 2 lines to list Your email & phone number

: ste . 2.1 , t 4b ee _ |
| Name {printed} | Address (printed | Sktineture 4 |

is a a fart 233 of 448


--- page 234 ---
“We the undersigned residents of San Mateo are NOT in
favor of the removal of 172-214 barking spaces to
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be established
primarily on Humboldt Street & Surrounding streets in
North Central

Piease use 2 lines to fist your email & phone number

: St a vee = —
: aa Tan et ET A

Aciress iprinied| | SanGiucs

I

loushe Skt

Lael les ae |
Le i

Ke Lehi Didhin _|

oon ee oe

} -

r
i i
: t
swhoedaalg “ - = ae ep = oo oo SANS be Stet op aoe SEAT NAAT SEEN RO Breet ra eve agate

ie a eee “eee ee
ha j

litie 234 of 448



--- page 235 ---
Anita Webb

 Aaiditional Petition Names
©! Feb & 2022 at 5:14:51 PM

npc Tic

i forget this one
Anita

ve a

we the undersigned reside

nis 5 of San Matea are MOT in
favor of the

removal of 472.244 parking Spares fey
ccommorate the New Bike Lane so @ DG estahlic hac

Fey neiomay on Humbeldt Street & surro: IMT atreetes in
North Central

235 of 448


--- page 236 ---
toe = eth ee eS

Nosotros, los residentes abaja firmantes de of
San Mateo, no estamos a favor de ja eliminacion
de 172-214 espacios de estacionamiento para
acomodar el nuevo carril de bicicletas que se
Propone estabiecer principalmente por la
Humboldt Street y otras calles an 6i area de

| Nombre (impresa)

er on

sok
3

i 236 Of 448


--- page 237 ---
We ihe undersigned residents of San Mateo are NOT in

lavor of the removal of 172-27 4 parking spaces to
accommodate the New Bike Lane fo 86 established
primarily on Humboldt Street & Surrounding streets in

North Central

tee

Please use 2 jines to ist your email & phone number

rr et in
E i _ — 7 _ . i ——— a EY I rs —

= ipminiecd:

| Meme fonted)

Sepp beta begat Sei

*

FFE peat

: eee neon
a

|

237 of 448


--- page 238 ---
ravor of the removal of i (2-214 5 arene spaces to
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be established
primarily on Humbolat Street & surro uncding streets in
North Central

Please use 2 lines to list your email & phone nurmber

Nome fpinted) = =~ «| Aciairass {printed} ee a i

POC 238 of 448


--- page 239 ---
a Co eer inc

HN Beet ES ae

4 .

5
:
?

reir, eS

Poche ane Ane gibgn tp

239 of 448


--- page 240 ---
raalen 5
LS cece tem EE
HMIES $6 tisk ay Aunber

na ee ey rant ee,

;
=o i

a ee

a) aah

= SEIT ET een
| oe aE ::

eae

240 of 448


--- page 241 ---
We the undersigned residents of San Maleo are Ef
favor of the removal of 172-244 parking spaces fo
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be established
primarily on Humboldt Street & surrounding streets in
North Centrai

Please use 2 lines to list your email & phone number

Meene freeistac} | Adiaress lerinfed| | Sitinohure

on

HC ing been pe ty

en

ee WR av

i

ee yn

rere

LJasia Hance: Il

8 : ius
Advan a VOR

hi ioe 241 of

AAg


--- page 242 ---
We the undersigned residents of San Mateo are in
favor of the removal of 7 /2-274 parking spaces to
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be established
Primarily on Humboldt street & surrounding streets in
North Central

Please use 2 lines to list your emali & phone number

oe

| Mame fodnged] - AGtrass (prinjed!

a

Mancture

2 a ! Pras it or

(AMY quai
I~ LO Jie
a

s i Ca
\ ON OT

9

an

Mobb y Ke

Sate

i

A, a 242 of 448

ane res

Ta ete sesheeeiieabieeaitebiaaetaiererter


--- page 243 ---
243 of 448

f-

S



--- page 244 ---
YpName City State Postal Coce Country Signed On

Tere i

Benaiah Wilberforce
Ajan Louie

Laila Austin

Donna Minatra
Monica Strabala

Kelly May

Jonathan Ramirez Ps
Milton Tormasino Frc cd
Frank Salinas PT
Rajunesh Maharaj f ssi—‘isSCisd

Jonathan Ramirez-Sanchez

Walid Abid

Samantha Joachim
Ema Halpin

Neen S03

Lisa Joachim
Welch Maleta
Natalia Tatola

Austin Glascock
Thomas Haipin
Anthony Pacelli

Santos Rumibo an
Cis
Panic! Chaps
Aico sarvacs as
Cyrus Vance mils

;

“244 of 448


--- page 245 ---
Shaylona Wheeler [a

Claudia Tatola

Curshawna Granger

LeeAnn Gunter
Patricia Ciapponi

Teresa Pale

Charlie Norman

Mignon Page-Broughton

Anna Belanger

Kassandra Montgomery

zina butler

Kiera Aldridge

sephia heath

Alonzo Brian Emery

Kyle Terada
Hope Trygstad
Thomas Sheldon

Elana Fresquez

kim hoffman

Anthony Arrechea

Janice hudson

Virginia Mcisaac|

Susanne Scher
Sandra DiMatte

Victor and Kate Rainaldi

Bijan Yavari
Surena Yavari
Mona Lotfi

Jolaiya Aldridge |

Dasha Herrera

Hernando Garcia [is

245 of 448


--- page 246 ---
Fizabeth Connolly
Nat Valik

Mike Peyzner

dexter Chiang
Susheela Carroil

mike minerva

Brittany Thompson
Lucy Lopez

Gail Marlin

Cassandra Garcia

Vanessa Haney
Gerardo Salazar
do

Jeshua Reina

Jason Liao

Debbie Sandino

Ana Fonua
Kimberly Sosa
Teresa Wen

Maciison Huynh

Stephen & Susan Bell

Claudia Marquez

Mark Awad

Courtney Stalley
Peter Martin
Joel Sato
Kevin Hwang

Irasemea Carranza

Eunice Chan

carol gillett

adrienne kent qunst

Phyllis Berwick
Pegah Shanmirz
Hernando Gonzalez
Jeannine Klopocki
Bogdan Klopocki
Ceimy Kantun
Elizabeth Valdez!
Kim Cresci

Rebecca Baltodano

246 of 448


--- page 247 ---
Ronald McGoldrick
Kielan Crow
Brittany Venturelli

John Bos Ramos

rennan W
Marcia Wachna
Dev Patnaik
Diane Morris
Andrea Lopez
LynetteA Bartel
John Chetcuti

Monica Devoy

juliet vimahi
Martin Taualo

Kia Myers Holsey

Kendra Williamson

Irene Vega

Cartane Brasal
Julia Osuna

Audrey Smith
Penry Wilkins
Danelle Riénks
Kim Hoffmann
Carta Sheldon
Alberto Garcia
Leslie Talley
Althea Hori

Anna Kuhre

Joanne Stodgei
Shanti forte
Jason Pullen

Cynthia Arevalo

Christine Hanan
Sendra Palm
Maria Palma
Jeff Gilbert

Silvia Yor

Jennifer Hilliard

CINDY ANTONTA? 71

247 of 448


--- page 248 ---
SS...

carol murphy

Chrissy newsom
betty harada-garcia
John & Dorothy Meyer
dilian Abinadar

Suzanne Volmer
Gina Williams
Amy Tatsutani

Allison Leong

Loreley Fernandez-Davila
Patricia Marsala
Shirley Escobar
Haydat Giulianetti

Jose Garcia

Zila Saigado-meza

Anna Traverso

Yvette Batrez

Denise Strenl

Jeanne Guynes
Linda Lowe

Kara McGinty

Tea Tran

Sandra Gonzalez

Cynthia Botello
Wendy Lee
Linn Bui

Kandice Podlone

Nene sec
Michael Mozzone

Kimya Cotton

Elena Gumina
Margarita Garcia

im
vere ton:

248 of 448


--- page 249 ---
249 of 448


--- page 250 ---
igned residents of San Mateo are NOT j
favor of the removal OF 172-2174 Parking spaces to
accommodate the New Bike Lane to be established

North Central

Please use 2 lines to list your email & Phene number
————

| Mame fevinted

FR ba PRA AS

Labagitiee Md fl ced

selina micuetat tonne

30S (Tenge }
Edeata Gea on

I



--- page 251 ---
#

Ca:

“s

ip

ait

inate

.

SPP
i

RARER

Ra BEA

251 of 448


--- page 252 ---
Nosotros, los residentes abaja firmantes de of

San M ateo, no estamos a favor de la eliminacion

de 172-214 espacios de estacionamiento para
acomodar el nuevo carril de bicicletas que se
Propone establecer principalmente por la

Humboldt Street y otras calles en e! area de

North Ce ntral ae ,

Nombre (impresa) |
ADA [ur =|

L —_ - “ .

_ Direccion (impresa)

252 of 448


--- page 253 ---
‘ve the undersigned residents of San Mateo are NOT in

favor of the removal of 7 12-214 parking spaces to

accommodate the New Bike Lane to be establishe

Primarily on Humboldt Street & SUITO
North Central

Please use 2 lines to list your email & phone

unding streets jn

umber

i
i
i

i

253 of 448


--- page 254 ---


--- page 255 ---
TITS gay

Vi

7)
5 4 rE
ene ——
A PSM

ee

apelin ae
¢ git

Are eee eee eo ae

in ——— ae aU AR
Sear, Woes ie wert ct i are

ty Flr it tether

SS No de

ee

“py EMRE JOsVERELAS _ SIMON (SUB

"OSE [A] UES JENUa) YON Ui OaIIS ypiogu LO SAUbY

ce

Que 7 c : { LUBA F
MG 10 LOH} E ISU! BIePOUWODIe 63 Saveds Supied jo peaowis JO JOALY UT JOU pue BuUNSojOUd ase Daley UES JO AiID Bt JO SIUMPISAy “pat n Su Aq
a T * ba ia “ zt eet i



--- page 256 ---
aa

G3fUGs}9]3 081105 [3 /euiy Oudjaje] /ausud “TShIaid /sSsaippy : MPEUSIS Baquiony fau
‘ODIEIAf UBS [21ND UION Ud “JS0.39 IpjOgUUNH us selspig eved soji.ied ep WOPEleyst
Jepowose eed oJuaiweuoidelsa ap soimedsa 3p UGPOws Be] ap sOAe} e OU A OPUesaio!d SOWIe}sa Ose] UES OP Pepnis Oj ap sayuspises SopUEUL! ofege

-

“OSILYY URS je12USD ULION Ul ‘Jeans [pyoquuinH UO se
ATA enamine mannan ae FAAS Cit A Nn Ines anc mie Siinearail aie AcPIAP IPC LO ATI BU LO S1UuaDIsel ‘paLsissapUN Buy



--- page 257 ---
ray \ Y 1A? a”

eeu AG Jor

Sos
xe) aa? St



--- page 258 ---
Jan. 17, 2025

To: San Mateo City Council
Subject: Humboldt Bike Lane

| know you, the council, have to make a big decision about the Bike
Lane.

There are a few new council members that may not have heard the
residents of North Central. Who spoke before the council last year. Or had
a chance to read the letters sent to the council last year. | think it is
important that the new members understand the affects the Bike Lane has
on the entire group of North Central.

For example last year, one resident of North Central got up to speak to
the council one night. He was nervous, sly and spoke softly, but he was
only 10 or 11 years old. Basically he said he no longer played outside in
the yard. Because they were parking cars there now. You might say go to
the park, 6 blocks away. But what parent comes home from work and has
2 hours to walk the children to park to play. Verse the children playing in
their yard and knowing they are safe. So this is not just about parking
spaces. This affects kids too. If you think the children have a Bike Lane to
ride in. Here is a question, for the council members, would you allow your
children (12 years old or younger) to ride in the Bike Lane on Humboldt
St.. As cars drive by at 20 mph and within 3 feet of the bicyclist. Be honest
with yourself.

Advocates of the Bike Lane Say it’s a way for the bicyclists to get fresh
air and exercise. But some children are losing that privilege, because of
the Bike Lane.

One day, | counted the houses on one block of Humboldt St. on both

sides of the street. And | just counted houses, not Condos or apartments.
There are 10 houses, since installing the Bike Lane there are 4 houses

258 of 448


--- page 259 ---
now parking cars in the front yard. That is 40%. | don’t know about the
other blocks, but it’s probably happening on other blocks.

As you decide this issue, are you going to give non-San Mateo
residents the same consideration? Like the person who said the Bike
Lane looks good, but never said if they used the Bike Lane and they are
from Burlingame. Verse San Mateo resident, who Says they have to walk
a block from where they parked their car to their home.

| attended last week’s council meeting. A gentleman spoke to the
council, he stated that accidents were down and we should keep the Bike
Lane. Implying that the Bike Lane is the reason for less accidents. He
didn’t offer any facts, like how many accidents happened on Humboldt St.
before the Bike Lane and after installing the Bike Lane. And | believe he
was a non-San Mateo resident. This would be, like me saying Hillsdale
Mall reported a 10% increase in shoppers to the mall last year. So we
should keep the Bike Lane, because it helped the mall.

So | hope the council base their decision on facts and not on opinion.

Here’s a fact you know, the residents of North Central have
complained about losing parking spaces for years. By writing letters to
the council, signing petitions and attending council meetings.

You may think that only the residents of Humboldt St. are affected by
the Bike Lane, since they lost parking space in front of their homes. But
the cars that park on the west side of Humboldt St., have to find a new
place to park. Some are parking in their yards, but the rest are parking on
the streets in the neighborhood. This is how it affects the whole
neighborhood, say a Humboldt resident parks his car on a side street, like
Tilton Ave., now a resident of Tilton can’t find parking in front of his home,
so they park on Grant St. and it goes on and on. This is just one car, think
about the number of parking spaces lost on Humboldt St.. It’s like playing
Musical Chairs, but instead of chairs it is parking spaces and instead of
playing in a yard, it is played in the North Central neighborhood.

259 of 448


--- page 260 ---
Why didn’t Humboldt St. get a Share Bike Lane, like Delaware St? If
Humboldt St. got a Share Bike Lane, that probably would have been the
better choice. The residents would not lose parking spaces. Children
would have yards to play in. Bicyclists and drivers would have to learn to
share the street. And it would have Spared the council and the North
Central residents all this stress.

SO as you decide the future of the Bike Lane, think about 75 bicyclists
who may use the Bike Lane and the hundreds of residents.

Finally, do you think if the Bike Lane is removed, bicyclists are going to

Stop riding their bicycles. Or the bicyclists who use the Bike Lane to get to
and from work, are going to quit their jobs.

North Central Resident

260 of 448


--- page 261 ---
261 of 448

--- page 262 ---
262 of 448

--- page 263 ---
263 of 448

--- page 264 ---
264 of 448

--- page 265 ---
265 of 448

--- page 266 ---
266 of 448

--- page 267 ---
267 of 448

--- page 268 ---
268 of 448

--- page 269 ---
269 of 448

--- page 270 ---
270 of 448

--- page 271 ---
271 of 448

--- page 272 ---
rahi

hiieaine en
PPEce at
lt rp

Pt shiny
MS ab cere

272 of 448


--- page 273 ---
On Jan 29, 2025, at 5:21 PM, Kevin Simpson ii:

wrote:

Dear Mayor Newsom, Deputy Mayor Lorraine, and Council Members Diaz Nash,
Cwirko-Godycki, and Fernandez,

Next Monday your agenda contains a discussion about the
Humboldt Street Bike Lanes. At the December community meeting
about these lanes, | was concerned by a number of issues with the
content and conduct of that meeting. | shared these concerns with

273 of 448


--- page 274 ---
274 of 448

--- page 275 ---
275 of 448

--- page 276 ---
276 of 448

--- page 277 ---
277 of 448

--- page 278 ---
278 of 448

--- page 279 ---
City of San Mateo
City Council Meeting

POST PACKET

PUBLIC COMMENT


--- page 280 ---
Outlook

Support keeping Humboldt St bike lanes

From Allison Chang <j >
Date Sat 2/1/2025 3:43 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hello San Mateo City Council,

| want to voice my support for maintaining the new bike boulevard on Humboldt St. | drive that way a
couple times a week, between Tilton and the freeway, and always see the cyclists now, thanks to the
current infrastructure.

| appreciate that some people want more convenient parking, but | think it's more important to (1)
protect the lives of cyclists and pedestrians and (2) materially support emissions-free transit options.

Best,
Allison Chang

about: blank?windowld=Second eadingPane2 1
as 280 of 448


--- page 281 ---
Outlook

Please preserve and expand our San Mateo bike lanes

From Rick Ballard ay
Date Sun 2/2/2025 9:51 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council,

Regarding agenda item 10 of the February 3rd council meeting, I’m writing to ask you to preserve our
Humboldt street bike lanes, and continue to invest in building out further bicycle infrastructure.

Three days ago a work colleague of mine was struck by a car while commuting home on his bicycle.
He suffered a broken nose and a concussion — and as scary as a concussion is, it could have been
much worse. This was on the same route that | also use to commute to and from work on my eBike.
It's the best route from my workplace — but doesn't have a bicycle lane or any other safety
infrastructure. You can imagine how personal the threat of rolling back the little bike infrastructure we
do have feels.

In San Mateo I've found that an eBike serves as an effective car replacement. | use my eBike for almost
all my transportation needs. | do my grocery shopping with my eBike. | commute on it. | go to
appointments. Social visits. Shopping. Dining out. And everything else. San Mateo is a great place for
bicycling to thrive. Good weather, flat roads, and it has housing, shopping, services, workplaces, and
transit close together. And the popularization of eBikes is a game changer, making bicycling viable as
a true car replacement for far more people.

But the truth is that, today, it requires a great deal of confidence to bike here. There are not enough
bike lanes and the streets aren't very safe. People like me bike anyway; but many other people are
afraid to, or ride on the sidewalks.

So | ask you to please not take us backwards on this issue. Removing bike lanes will result in serious
injuries or death, and discourage people from biking at all. Instead, please invest our city dollars
towards completing our bicycle master plan, with enough critical infrastructure that biking becomes
accessible for everyone.

Thank you,
- Rick Ballard
North-Central San Mateo resident

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane1 ata
a 281 of 448


--- page 282 ---
Outlook

Feb. 3rd City Council Agenda Item 10 (Bike Lanes)

From is <>

Date Thu 1/30/2025 6:45 PM
To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear City Council,

Here we are once again. | feel some combination of Alternatives #3 and #4 appear the best way
forward for the both the community and the bike enthusiasts. The reasons are that the speed
differential between the auto traffic and the bicyclists are greater and thus more dangerous on
any arterial versus a parallel side street. That is the case whether using marked lanes or "share
the road" or Bicycle Boulevards. The second reason/suggestion is that these alternatives are
best, is that you should consider converting or at least undertake a serious study of making ALL
side streets in ALL directions in North Central into ONE WAY STREETS. This was under
consideration during the last study some years back and discarded, in that by State law, the
twelve foot width traffic lane and the eight foot parking lane and five foot bike lane dictates could
not be accommodated on many of the smaller streets. My response is we are presently not in
compliance now and never have been, with these standards and to leave things much as they
are but with ONE WAY designations, would leave us with far more room for 'share the road"
operations and leave the parking on both sides in place. You still might want to avail yourselves
of segments of alternatives 3 and 4 as you desire. Hopefully these suggestions are clear
enough and any questions, | could hopefully satisfy, if needed.

Respectfully, Mike Caggiano
long time North Central resident although a non-biker

about:blank? windowld=SeoondaryReadingPane1 4
282 of 448


--- page 283 ---
(Outlook

Bike Lanes at San Mateo High

From Kiana Chen <a >

Date Mon 2/3/2025 8:01 AM
To — City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom and SM City Council,

I’m Kiana Chen, a high school student living in San Mateo County, and | do not support the
removal of the bike lanes around San Mateo High, College Park/Fiesta Gardens Elementary,
and San Mateo Adult Schools - some of the most dangerous streets in the City. We must
promote safe streets for kids who bike to school.

The bike lanes offer several benefits to residents of North Central and others who attend
school, recreate, or commute in the area.

Investing in safer streets benefits everyone by saving lives, promoting pedestrian and cyclist
safety, and fostering independence in children. Additionally, it lowers taxpayer costs by reducing
road maintenance and public health expenses while ensuring affordable, safe mobility for those
without cars.

We ask that our scarce taxpayer dollars and staff time instead be spent looking forward, not
backward. These lanes are important for students who rely on these bike lanes to travel to
school and have no alternative methods of getting to campus.

Thank you for prioritizing the safety of our children and families, keeping the San Mateo High
bike lanes, and accelerating other safety projects in San Mateo.

Thank you,
Kiana Chen

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane4 4
283 of 448


--- page 284 ---
Outlook

Bike Lanes at San Mateo

From rina choe <j >
Date Mon 2/3/2025 8:01 AM

To = City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Mayor Newsom and San Mateo City Council,

| am a high school student living in San Mateo County, and | am in opposition to the removal of the
bike lanes around San Mateo High School, College Park/Fiesta Gardens Elementary, and San Mateo
Adult Schools.

The bike lanes offer several benefits to residents, such as promoting pedestrian and cyclist safety,
saving lives, and fostering children's independence. Additionally, these lanes are important for
students who rely on these bike lanes to travel to school and have no alternative methods of getting
to campus.

On my commute to and from Carlmont High School every morning and afternoon, | pass by groups of
middle and high school bikers. Many of these children form close friends through these biking routes.
| am aware that many students use the bike lanes in San Mateo as well. By removing the bike lanes,
the streets around the school zones would not only become much more dangerous for these students,
but it would also remove an essential promoter of community.

Thank you for prioritizing the safety of students and | hope that you take these factors into
consideration when coming to a decision.

Sincerely,
Rina Choe

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane5 1/1
284 of 448


--- page 285 ---
Outlook

Please keep our bike lanes

From Christine L. (>
Date Sat 2/1/2025 6:09 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear city council,

Please do not remove the new bike lanes around San Mateo High, College Park/Fiesta
Gardens Elementary, and San Mateo Adult Schools - the most dangerous streets in the City.
We need to make our streets safer for kids who walk and bike so that we can reduce the
increasing number of fatalities and the traffic congestion that plague our streets.

These bike lanes offer several benefits to residents of North Central and others who attend
school, recreate, or commute in the area. Bike lanes:

- Save lives for kids and parents who bike

- Make the streets safer for pedestrians (through more narrow auto lanes and improved
crosswalk visibility)

- Make our kids healthier and help them do better in school

- Foster a sense of independence among our children

- Encourage people to leave their cars at home, reducing congestion, global warming, and air
pollution

- Increase property values

- Make our streets more beautiful

- Create a sense of community and and encourage people to shop locally

- Reduce taxpayer expenses through lower road maintenance and public health spending

- Facilitate safe, low cost travel for those unable to afford the skyrocketing cost of car ownership

Too many people are dying on the streets of San Mateo while we debate whether to remove
recently installed safety infrastructure. We ask that our scarce taxpayer dollars and staff time
instead be spent looking forward, not backward.

This debate is delaying construction of safe routes to school projects on Delaware, Norfolk,
19th/Fashion Island, Alameda, and elsewhere. Meanwhile, the number of tragedies is
increasing and too many parents are scared to let their kids walk and bike to school.

Thank you,

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane6 wv
285 of 448


--- page 286 ---
Outlook

Let's Keep Our Bike Lanes

From Christine Cook iii >
Date Mon 2/3/2025 3:36 AM

To = City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>

It's beyond a travesty that San Mateo is considering removing the Humboldt Street bike lanes:

1. The bike lanes are relatively recently installed. It's unreasonable to expect that they will be fully
utilized in short order, especially since there is little done to enforce key safety elements that greatly
affect their use - cars still park in the bike lanes, adjacent traffic still greatly exceeds the speed limit,
lighting leaves much to be desired etc. This affects all bike users; children attending nearby schools,
and adults using the lanes during early morning and late night hours.

2. City of San Mateo has sidestepped promises made regarding parking access for a community that
understood there would be accommodations made to mitigate the effects of the parking spaces that
were lost

Removal of the bike lanes will have additional consequences:

1. Substantial monies were received to facilitate the implementation of the lanes. That money will need
to be returned, and it's an open question as to whether a city that has a high profile example of a
failed project will readily receive future funding.

2. The community will learn that Council doesn't stand behind its decisions, or the 2040 General Plan.
Expect lots of additional "vocal minority" action on invalidating Council decisions that don't have
universal appeal. This is not a precedent we need to encourage.

3. Removing the bike lanes won't solve the parking problem in North Central. There's a great danger
worsening it as a result of "induced" parking demand. Provide spaces for 100 more cars, and 200 will
try to crowd into the space. Additionally, how do we justify that there are 100 car owners who are
essentially getting a $4000 parking bonus? There's nothing equitable in this approach. Numerous
other suggestions have been made to remedy the parking situation. It's time to explore them fully...
we could start now with basic enforcement of city parking regulations.

4. Removing the bike lanes will hamper future possibilities of creating a network of multimodal
transport options.

5 This project is largely complete, though it needs additional fine tuning. There are other pressing
multimodal circulation, traffic and safety issues to focus on.

Replacement of the bike lanes with a "bike boulevard” is a joke. There are few successful
implementations of bike boulevards, and it would be a retrograde step. When asked at the North
Central MLK community meeting the table facilitator wasn't able to identify a single one as a good
example. She did suggest that a successful implementation was “aspirational”. We don't need
aspirations though, we need things that really work. Fifth Avenue is reputed to be a bike boulevard. It's
not a good implementation, no one is safer.

I'm a local homeowner (and, by extension, property tax payer), and frequent user of our local bike
lanes - | don't want to see my tax dollar squandered. Additionally, as a North Central resident, | believe
anything that encourages further vehicle volume in our narrow and overcrowded streets is misplaced.

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane7 1/2
286 of 448


--- page 287 ---
The consequences of increased traffic in equity priority communities are well documented, let's not
doom North Central to worsening air quality, noise, and stress, as well as future health and safety
issues. We already know that the bike lanes have resulted in improved neighborhood safety outcomes.
Let's capitalize on this.

San Mateo desperately needs to become a 21st Century hometown, with visible community-facing
aspirations to be a safe, liveable, walkable, bikeable and driveable modem city, At the moment, with so
many highly visible failed projects this seems like an unattainable goal. Let's send a sign - keep the
bike lanes and take action to make them even better. This is an opportunity to step up and make good
decisions that serve all needs.

Thank you for your time and consideration.

Christine Cook
North Central resident since 2001

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadin ne7 2/2
i = 287 of 448


--- page 288 ---
Outlook

San Mateo bike lanes

From Darren Don <a >

Date Sun 2/2/2025 10:34 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear city council members

Please reconsider the decision to remove bike lanes in San Mateo. | commute by bike to work in San Mateo. It is
dangerous enough with the distracted drivers. There are few streets with dedicated bike lanes. By removing these
lanes, it would increase the risk for accidents and tragic outcomes. Please support bike riders, we help decrease
the amount of traffic.

Sincerely,

Darren Don

about: blank?windowld=Secondary ReadingPanes 1/1
288 of 448


--- page 289 ---
Outlook

Bike Lanes at San Mateo High

From Emma D <j >
Date Mon 2/3/2025 8:07 AM

To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom and SM City Council,

I'm Emma, a high school student living in San Mateo County, and | do not support the removal of the
bike lanes around San Mateo High, College Park/Fiesta Gardens Elementary, and San Mateo Adult
Schools - some of the most dangerous streets in the City. We must promote safe streets for kids who
bike to school.

The bike lanes offer several benefits to residents of North Central and others who attend school,
recreate, or commute in the area.

Investing in safer streets benefits everyone by saving lives, promoting pedestrian and cyclist safety,
and fostering independence in children.

We ask that our scarce taxpayer dollars and staff time instead be spent looking forward, not backward.
These lanes are important for students who rely on these bike lanes to travel to school and have no
alternative methods of getting to campus.

Thank you for prioritizing the safety of our children and families, keeping the San Mateo High bike
lanes, and accelerating other safety projects in San Mateo.

Thank you,
Emma Dougherty

about: blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane9 1/1
289 of 448


--- page 290 ---
Outlook

Support for Restoring Street Parking on Humboldt & Consideration for Bike Lane Relocation

From Eric Fichet iii: >
Date Sun 2/2/2025 11:55 AM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Eric Fichet

Dear City Council Members,

| am writing to express my support for restoring street parking on Humboldt Street. While the
intention behind creating a bike lane was undoubtedly well-meaning and aimed at improving our
city’s infrastructure, the practical impact has been significantly detrimental to parking availability in the
surrounding neighborhood. The removal of parking on Humboldt has caused substantial spillover into
adjacent streets, particularly N. Idaho, with residents from nearby apartment complexes struggling to
find space for their cars and trucks.

Additionally, the current bike lane on Humboldt does not appear to receive enough usage to justify
the loss of such a large number of parking spaces. Given the strain this has placed on both residents
and local businesses, | strongly encourage the Council to reconsider the decision and restore parking
on Humboldt Street.

| have also heard discussions about relocating the bike lane to N. Idaho, which would remove parking
there instead. While this approach would shift rather than resolve the parking issue, | personally would
not be opposed to it. A main road like Humboldt is better suited to accommodate spillover parking
than a residential street like N.ldaho, and residential streets provide a safer environment for cyclists
compared to a high-traffic road leading to a freeway entrance.

| appreciate your time and consideration of this matter and hope that the Council will take into
account the real impact on residents as you evaluate potential solutions.

Sincerely,

Eric Fichet

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane10 41
290 of 448


--- page 291 ---
Outlook

going back on Humbodt is not a safe option

From Heidi von Briel <a >
Date Sun 2/2/2025 5:05 PM

To —_ City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Hello,

parents do not feel safe when their kids have to ride bike boulevards.

As a volunteer/parent from the Redwood City school district and an LCI bike instructor I strongly
oppose going back on the bike lanes on Humboldt street.

Bike boulevards are not a safe option for kids - with car sizes these days drivers often don't even see
the kids in front of them and drivers do not understand that the sharrows indicate where the cyclists
are supposed to ride and honk kids away from the street. Parents therefore do not feel safe letting
their kids ride in streets that only have shurrows rather than real bike lanes .

I urge you not to make the same mistake that Redwood City does and rely on bike boulevards. They
do not work, never have, never will.

Please leave the bike lanes at Humboldt streets in place and rather than removing something that
works, look for other opportunities in streets where you can do the same to increase the bike share in
your city, rather than decreasing it again. Anyone you can encourage cycling with proper infrastructure
is a car less causing congestion, especially during school drop off and pick up hours.

Thanks for being a leader in 15mph speed limits around school in our county.

Regards,
Heidi von Briel
Safe Routes to School Redwood City

about:blank ?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane11 4
291 of 448


--- page 292 ---
lM Outlook

Please Protect the North Central San Mateo Bike Lanes

From Michelle Hudson <_ja >
Date Sun 2/2/2025 9:06 AM

To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear
Mayor Newsom and City Council,

On

Monday, February 3, you will consider proposals to remove the bike lanes next to San Mateo High and
College Park Elementary Schools on Humboldt. This would be tragic for the climate, equity, public
health, and City finances.

Transportation

is responsible for >50% of GHG emissions in the County. Biking is environmentally friendly and also
provides cheap and quick last mile connectivity to Caltrain and other public transit. Humboldt is in the
North Central neighborhood, an equity priority community

with a number of people who cannot afford the cost of buying and maintaining a car and the most
dangerous streets in the City. Biking is a low cost tool for combating our obesity, air pollution, loneliness,
and education challenges. Finally, leaving the

bike lanes in place will save millions of dollars in taxpayers money.

In

addition, the bike lanes are necessary for the safety of our community. I’m a mother of a high school
student in San Mateo who rides his bike. | would also like to rely on biking for my personal transportation
far more often. The reality is that | fear it’s

simply not safe enough without protected bike lines, which are few and far between in San Mateo.
Please don’t remove the ones we have. The community needs more, not fewer, bike lanes for the
environment and safety of our community.

Thank
you,

Michelle
Hudson

about blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane12 41
292 of 448


--- page 293 ---
Outlook

Bike Lanes at San Mateo High

From Audra Loh <j >
Date Sun 2/2/2025 8:35 PM

To = Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

| am Audra, a high school student who goes to school in San Mateo. | do not support the removal of
the bike lanes around San Mateo High, College Park/Fiesta Gardens Elementary, and San Mateo Adult
Schools, all of which are some of the most dangerous streets in San Mateo. As someone who believes
in sustainability, biking to school is not only a means for transportation, but also an environmentally
conscious decision. Thus, we must promote safe streets for kids who bike to school.

The bike lanes offer several benefits to residents of North Central and others who attend school,
recreate, or commute in the area.

Investing in safer streets benefits everyone by saving lives, promoting pedestrian and cyclist safety,
and fostering independence in children. Additionally, it lowers taxpayer costs by reducing road
maintenance and public health expenses while ensuring affordable, safe mobility for those without
cars.

We ask that our scarce taxpayer dollars and staff time instead be spent looking forward, not backward.
These lanes are important for students who rely on these bike lanes to travel to school and have no
alternative methods of getting to campus.

Thank you for prioritizing the safety of our children and families, keeping the San Mateo High bike
lanes, and accelerating other safety projects in San Mateo.

Best,
Audra

about: blank?windowld=Secondary ReadingPane 13 V1
293 of 448


--- page 294 ---
Outlook

Support for Humboldt Street Bike Lanes

From President Council PTA hii >
Date Sun 2/2/2025 6:14 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc

; Zach Horn, GH PTA

President ee >;: President Abbott PTA iE >;
Rs <a >| President Meadow Heights
SS >| <> FS PTA
President <a >; >

@) 1 attachment (83 KB)
Letter of Support for Humboldt St Bike Lanes - SMFCSD PTA Council. pdf;

San Mateo City Council,

Please include this email and the attached signed letter in the City Council packet for tomorrow’s City
Council Meeting (February 3, 2025).

The SMFCSD PTA Association, composed of the PTAs of SMFCSD's 10,500+ students, is united in support
of safe bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure (specifically the Humboldt St bike lanes and North Central
pedestrian improvements) that support Vision Zero and Safe Routes to School. This letter continues our
advocacy for the safety and well-being of SMFCSD’s students, exemplified by our letter in February 2024
advocating for the adoption of Vision Zero in the City of San Mateo.

In the last two weeks, 7 SMFCSD school PTA Associations have brought forth and voted to affirm the
attached letter in support of the Humboldt Street bicycle lanes. PTAs who have signed the letter: LEAD
(District 4), North Shoreview (District 2), Meadow Heights (District 5), Abbott (District 5), Fiesta Gardens
(currently District 3, District 2 in Fall 2025), George Hall (District 3), and Sunnybrae (District 3). Other
schools are bringing this agenda item to their next PTA Association meeting for a vote.

From our letter: “Removing the Humboldt Street bike lanes and forcing cyclists to share the road with
vehicle traffic would undermine the goals of Safe Routes to School and Vision Zero, compromising
safety for all. Every student and their caregiver deserve peace of mind knowing their child can safely
travel to and from school.”

Laura Long
President, San Mateo-Foster City PTA Council

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane14 4/1
294 of 448


--- page 295 ---
Outlook

Parking on N Idaho St.

From a <j >

Date Fri 1/31/2025 5:04 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hi. My name is Amy Mausser-White. | live at J for the last 33 years. | love my home.

For a long while now we have been struggling with parking. Since the city took away the parking on N
Humboldt St. to accommodate the bike lanes, it has been a real headache. | have people parking in
front of my house and walking several blocks away to wherever they live?! It has been such that |
have to park on my lawn sometimes. Drives me nuts!

On behalf of my family of 6, we all have cars and need a place to park where we live. Please reinstate
the parking on N Humboldt St. in so far as | rarely see anyone in the bike lanes.

Thanks for your time,

Amy Mausser-White

Sent from my Verizon, Samsung Galaxy smartphone

aboutblank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane15 Wi
295 of 448


--- page 296 ---
Outlook

Please keep bike lanes

From Gina Meyers-I <j >
Date Sat 2/1/2025 5:54 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council of San Mateo,

Please keep the bike lanes in North Central! Please do not give in to prioritize cars and parking spaces.
Bikes are an essential mode of transportation for man,y and improving safety for our bicyclists is often
overlooked. Bikes are zero emissions, and allow those who cannot afford cars to maintain their
mobility. Bike lanes benefit families and children, and generally boost pediatrician safety with the
decrease of car use and car traffic. Please do not undo the work done to create these important bike
lanes!

Sincerely,
Gina Meyers-Im
Resident and home owner of San Mateo County

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane16 Wi
° 296 of 448


--- page 297 ---
297 of 448

--- page 298 ---
Outlook

Support for bike lanes

From Kay Nestor <a>
Date Sat 2/1/2025 3:34 PM

To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear City Council members,

| am a resident of North Central who relies on cycling for day to day errands. | am writing to ask that we maintain
and improve our bike lanes, rather than reducing or removing them.

While parking is genuinely difficult to find, it will become more so if more people must rely on cars to go about their
lives. Conversely, the more people feel safe cycling or walking, the less car-reliant we will be— the city’s research
shows a large group of people who are interested in cycling but do not feel safe doing so, and reducing our bike
infrastructure will only increase that number. Studies have also shown that increasing safety for cyclists and
calming traffic also increases safety for pedestrians. The more people have attractive options to avoid driving, the
safer we'll be, and we'll also benefit from a cleaner environment (especially in the midst of the climate crisis) and
quieter streets. We can all benefit from good bike infrastructure— but only if we don't reduce what we already
have. Please preserve it.

Additionally, I'd like to add my support to the proposal to improve our street lighting. It's really dark even on some
main streets, to the point where | worry about being hit by vehicles when on foot, even while wearing reflectors.
More modern designs of streetlights can increase visibility while still contributing less to light pollution, and would
be much appreciated.

Thank you for your time,
Kay Nestor

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane17 4
298 of 448


--- page 299 ---
Outlook

Keeping the Humboldt Bike lanes

From Jon New <a>
Date Sun 2/2/2025 3:19 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc = Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

My name is Jonathan New, and I'm a North Central resident. | strongly support keeping the Humboldt
bike lanes. | expect many public comments will highlight the improvements in safety, reduced
pollution, and the high costs of removal. These concerns are valid and essential to consider, and | hope
they are given the serious attention they deserve.

One aspect | think has gone underdiscussed in this ordeal is the lack of research into a parking permit
program. When | asked the San Mateo Engineering manager about this at the December 4th meeting,
he was extremely defensive, arguing that such permits are “inequitable”, and “unwelcoming”.

I'm sorry, but that couldn't be farther from the truth. This is a classic Tragedy of the Commons scenario
— high demand for a limited resource with no regulation. There are countless ways to structure
permits, including guest passes and income-based adjustments. Not only would a permit program
potentially allow the city to generate revenue from renting out public space for private vehicle storage,
but it might also encourage households with six cars parked on the street to reconsider their choices.
Meanwhile, families who don't need street parking could even earn extra income by renting out their
permits.

Please consider keeping the bike lanes, and exploring a parking permit program in earnest.
Thank you for the opportunity to comment

Jonathan New
San Mateo

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane18 41
299 of 448


--- page 300 ---
Outlook

Please Consider the Residents of North Central

From Trina M Pier e [a
Date Sun 2/2/2025 9:18 PM

To = City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org >; Jay Yu <jyu@cityofsanmateo.org>

> Hello Council Members of San Mateo

>

> North Central has had parking issues before they removed over 200 parking spaces. | feel this area has been
through a lot and we all know that there are seldom any bikes riding on Humboldt St.

>

> | am disappointed to hear from my long time friend Trina, that San Mateo City received an award for being
Friendly and making seniors top priority. Well this is certainly not true for the seniors in North Central. As, far back
as | can remember North Central has never been listened to as part of citizens, only considered low income.

>

> My name is Jacki, | live on Idaho St and | have lived in San Mateo, in this area for 82 years, other than the 2
years | left California.

>

> | am asking that you bring the parking back on Humboldt St.

> This area has never been opposed to a shared Bike Lane. After, all there is a shared bike lane on Delaware St.
>

> Please, Please bring back the PARKING on Humboldt St

>

> Thank you

> North Central Resident

>

>

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane19 1
300 of 448


--- page 301 ---
301 of 448

--- page 302 ---
Qe Outlook

The Humbolt Bike Lane

From Elaine Salinger >
Date Sun 2/2/2025 3:59 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hello Honorable May and City Council Members,

|

am writing to you as a representative of 1158 CCL members in San Mateo County and over 200 CCL
members who live in the City Of San Mateo and as a SMC BPAC member. We support the bike lanes
as

is

and urge the Council to focus taxpayer dollars and staff time on higher priorities. It is time to prioritize
students’ and cyclist’s lives over the convenience of drivers.

It

is time to promote active transportation if we are going to fulfill our climate targets. Transportation
causes 33% of the Bay Area emissions. The BOS received a SMC Civil Grand Jury Report in July 2023
stating that the numbers of cyclists has not increased

in 25 years. And the reason is because people do not feel safe. Providing bike lanes is the best way to
help people feel safe.

|
am asking you to please keep the Humbolt Bike Path and please build more bike paths!

Elaine Salinger, San Mateo County Chapter Leader
Citizens Climate Lobby

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane20 1A
302 of 448


--- page 303 ---
303 of 448

--- page 304 ---
304 of 448

--- page 305 ---
Outlook

Support for Maintaining Humboldt Street Bike Lanes

From Kolja Schlitter (>
Date Sat 2/1/2025 4:48 PM

To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear San Mateo City Council,

| am writing regarding Agenda Item 10 for the February 3rd meeting concerning the Humboldt Street
bike lanes.

| urge you to maintain the existing bike lanes on Humboldt Street.

After reviewing the current Agenda Report and the February 22, 2022 report prepared by former City
Manager Corbett, | am concemed about the proposal to remove this critical infrastructure. The bike
lanes were implemented following extensive community outreach and a decisive 3-2 Council vote,
representing a carefully considered $1.9 million investment in our city's sustainable transportation
network.

The potential removal would be fiscally irresponsible:

e $850,000 cost to remove the lanes and restore parking

e Total project cost would increase to $2.7 million - with nothing to show for it!
e Cost of approximately $16,000 per parking space restored

e Loss of federal grant funding investment

While | empathize with residents’ parking concerns, public streets must serve the entire community's
needs. Rather than removing vital infrastructure, | encourage the Council to:

1. Maintain the bike lanes

2. Implement a residential parking permit program

3. Enhance parking enforcement of existing regulations

4. Continue exploring additional parking solutions like the King Center program

5. Complete the North Central Complete Streets Plan to address broader mobility needs

The city has already made significant progress toward a safer, more sustainable transportation
network. Removing these bike lanes would be a costly step backward that undermines both our
climate goals and fiscal responsibility.

Please consider options that consider San Mateo's needs as a whole, and hopefully be fiscally less
impactful.

Thank you for your consideration,

Kolja Schluetter

aboutblank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPanez1 1/1
305 of 448


--- page 306 ---
Gh Outlook

Subject: Bike Lanes at San Mateo High

From lauren smediey <i >
Date Sun 2/2/2025 7:40 PM

To = Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Mayor
Newsom and SM City Council,

I’m Lauren

Smedley, a high school student living in San Mateo County, and | do not support the removal of
the bike lanes around San Mateo High, College Park/Fiesta Gardens Elementary, and San
Mateo Adult Schools - some of the most dangerous streets in the City. We must

promote safe streets for kids who bike to school.

The bike
lanes offer several benefits to residents of North Central and others who attend school,
recreate, or commute in the area.

Investing

in safer streets benefits everyone by saving lives, promoting pedestrian and cyclist safety, and
fostering independence in children. Additionally, keeping the existing infrastructure, instead of
building an additional biking infrastructure will lower taxpayer

costs by reducing road maintenance and public health expenses while ensuring affordable,
safe mobility for those without cars.

We ask

that our scarce taxpayer dollars and staff time instead be spent looking forward, not backward.
These lanes are important for students who rely on these bike lanes to travel to school and
have no alternative methods of getting to campus.

Thank
you for prioritizing the safety of our children and families, keeping the San Mateo High bike
lanes, and accelerating other safety projects in San Mateo.

Thank
you,
Lauren
Smedley

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane23 1/2
om a 306 of 448


--- page 307 ---
307 of 448

--- page 308 ---
308 of 448

--- page 309 ---
Instead of making the streets less safe, we encourage the City to investigate other, less costly
means of providing parking to those who need it. The City promised a permit program that
would provide street parking to residents while restricting use by non-residents and those with
more than four cars. Many lots on public property in North Central are empty at night and
should be made available to neighbors. Increased enforcement can reduce abuse of free
parking for inoperable and unused vehicles.

Thank you for maintaining the bike lanes around San Mateo High and College Park Elementary
Schools and instead focus our resources on the many other projects that will make our streets
safer and ready for the future we desire.

Sincerely,

San Mateo Leaders

Individuals (speaking on their own behalf; organizations only listed for identification purposes)

Organization
Jonathan Felder Bike Club Advisor & Teacher Aragon High School
Marianne Wallace President Audubon Elementary School PTA
Allison MacQueen Appointee City of SM Safe Routes to School Planning Committee
Heather Wolnick Appointee City of SM Safe Routes to School Planning Committee
Michael Swire Appointee City of SM Safe Routes to School Planning Committee
Phil King Appointee City of SM Safe Routes to School Planning Committee
Theresa Kong Appointee City of SM Safe Routes to School Planning Committee
Jon Feider Appointee; Teacher City of SM Safe Routes to School Planning Committee; Aragon High School
Joe Osorio Appointee; Crossing Guard City of SM Safe Routes to School Planning Committee; Borel Middle School
Anya Lin Co-President Hillsdate High School Bike Club
Miles Kim Co-President Hilisdale High School Bike Club
Angela Taylor Principal San Mateo Adult School
Giuliano Carlini Appointee San Mateo Country Transportation Authority, Community Advisory Committee
Jennifer Jacobson Trustee (liaison to San Mateo High School, representing San Mateo) San Mateo Union High Schoo! District, Board
Ligia Andrade Zuniga | Trustee (representing San Mateo, including North Central neighborhood; liaison to SM Adult School) San Mateo Union High School District, Board
Maggie Trinh Trustee San Mateo-Foster City Schoo! District, Board
Stacey Ho Trustee San Mateo-Foster City Schoo! District, Board

Organizations

309 of 448


--- page 310 ---
Name of Group

Hillsdale High School Bike Club

LEAD Elementary PTA

Meadow Heights Elementary PTA

Move San Mateo

San Mateo Climate Action Team

San Mateo Foster City School District Board of Trustees
San Mateo High School Green Team

Sunnybrae Elementary PTA

Transform

310 of 448


--- page 311 ---
lo Outlook

Polling on bike lanes

From Mike Swire iii: >
Date Sun 2/2/2025 5:18 PM

To = City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil @cityofsanmateo.org>

PLEASE ADD TO COUNCIL PACKET FOR MONDAY MEETING
Hello City Council,

| think that there is a lack of data on public opinion on the bike lanes next to San Mateo High. Here is
an attempt to inject some numbers into the conversation, even if they aren't scientific.

Keep in mind that when the City surveyed nearly 300 residents in 2022, for those outside of North
Central, only one in five opposed the bike lanes (you need to do some algebra to back out this
population from the #s below). In North Central, a slight plurality (not majority) of residents opposed
the bike lanes with parking mitigation.

Key Findings
Support the Project if additional parking options are implemented

al oda A A

HORT! CEMTHAL BLSIDEN'S MORTH CENTRAL AND ADIACENT Cily OF SAN MAILO AESPOMDENTS ALL RESPONDENTS
SLIGHBORNOOD

Furthermore, | would argue that every year these numbers will skew more in the favor of bike lanes vs.
free car storage. We saw a large increase in support for housing with the recent passage of Measure T
vs. previous housing measures.

The San Mateo Daily Journal is currently doing a poll on the bike lanes. (Note that this is not
exclusively SM residents). Here are the results as of 5p Sunday:

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane24 1/2
311 of 448


--- page 312 ---
Daily Journal Poll Question

Do you think the city of San Mateo should remove the bike lanes on Humboldt Street?

You voted: No

TY) 11.8%

Yes

SS 289%

No

| 1.1%
They should be modified

6.6%

No, but further neighborhood accommodations should be included
| 0.6%

Not sure

| will separately send a petition from residents in support of the bike lanes.
Thanks for listening,

Mike Swire

about:blank? windowild=SecondaryReadingPane24 2/2
312 of 448


--- page 313 ---
Outlook

Here are some voices from North Central .. .

From Mike Swire <_——s >
Date Sun 2/2/2025 5:04 PM

To = City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil @cityofsanmateo.org>

PLEASE ADD TO MONDAY'S PACKET AND PLAY VIDEO COMMENTS FOR THOSE WHO CANNOT
ATTEND MEETING

Dear City Council members,
Thank you for your service to our city.

Tomorrow night you will hear from those of us who are blessed to have the time to attend Council
meetings and the experience/background to make comments to Council. As | am sure you are aware,
we are the minority as most people do not have time or perhaps are even scared to attend Council
meetings given the current Trump deportation horror. Also, the City did not install signage on
Humboldt until two days ago and as such many people who rely on the bike lanes for safe travel are
not aware that the Council is debating changes or removal of the bike lanes.

Thus, here are some very short videos for you. Here are some people who rely on the bike lanes and
are unlikely to attend tomorrow's meeting. Many cannot afford cars and thus their safety is not
dependent on the quality of their air bags and steel cages, but instead on the decisions of the local
City Council to make our streets safe. Residents: Rodelphino, Armando, Oscar, and Al.

Here are some videos from other residents who live and/or bike in North Central and also depend on
you to keep them safe while biking to school or work: Humboldt resident Ana, Jason.

In response to the "no one bikes on Humboldt" comments, here are some pix of those who currently
bike. Please notice that many of these people are lower income, people of color who may not have a
car (almost 20% of N. Central households do not own a car). Slide show.

Thanks for listening to those whose lives depend on the Humboldt bike lanes and your decisions on
their future.

Mike Swire

San Mateo resident

Chair, C/CAG Bicycle & Pedestrian Advisory Committee

Appointee, City of San Mateo Safe Routes to School Advisory Committee
(writing on my own behalf, however)

about blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane25 1/1
313 of 448


--- page 314 ---
314 of 448

--- page 315 ---
315 of 448

--- page 316 ---
316 of 448

--- page 317 ---
317 of 448

--- page 318 ---
318 of 448

--- page 319 ---
319 of 448

--- page 320 ---
320 of 448

--- page 321 ---
321 of 448

--- page 322 ---
322 of 448

--- page 323 ---
323 of 448

--- page 324 ---
324 of 448

--- page 325 ---
325 of 448

--- page 326 ---
326 of 448

--- page 327 ---
327 of 448

--- page 328 ---
328 of 448

--- page 329 ---
329 of 448

--- page 330 ---
330 of 448

--- page 331 ---
331 of 448

--- page 332 ---
332 of 448

--- page 333 ---
333 of 448

--- page 334 ---
334 of 448

--- page 335 ---
335 of 448

--- page 336 ---
336 of 448

--- page 337 ---
337 of 448

--- page 338 ---
338 of 448

--- page 339 ---
339 of 448

--- page 340 ---
340 of 448

--- page 341 ---
341 of 448

--- page 342 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

We shou d be upgrad ng our b ke anes to be rea, true protected b ke anes to prov de safety to the many peop e who commute by
John Kr San Mateo 94401 bke,soca ze by bke, shop by b ke, and exerc se by b ke Remov ng the anes wou d be a step backwards for our c mate goas
and make San Mateo a poor, second rate cty  d dnt move here just for conservat ves to remove our b ke anes

We need to protect Safe Routes to Schoo and cont nue to make progress aganst Vson Zero Humbo dt St s one of the most
A son MacQueen San Mateo 94401 dangerous streets nSan Mateo County hgh njury rates fora three modes of trave b ke, pedestran,andvehce One ofony0
streets nSan Mateo County Thebke anes are see ng 10,000+ b ke tr ps each month per data from the C ty of San Mateo

We need to protect our commun ty and espec a y the ones on vu nerab e modes of transportat on Teach our commun ty dr v ng

Laura Kubba San Mateo 94401 safety, p ease

¥ Young San Mateo 94401 Weneedthebke anes

Lan i San Mateo 94401 Wedefinte y need the b ke anes
LANDER FOQUET San Mateo 94401 Weare not go ng back

We are heavy users of San Mateo bke anes Ourb ke s ourmanmode oftransport use t to take my daughter to schoo , back
Ana Sa ott San Mateo 94401 and forth, to go grocery shopp ng and pretty much for every trp fanythng San Mateo shoud nerease the ava ab ty of bke
anes, not remove them

Abbey ti San Mateo 94401 usethebke ane to YMCA for sw mm ng at the even ng
E eonore Wr ght San Mateo 94401 Unbe evabe Ths must change
Peter Coe San Mateo 94401 Unbe evabe
Peter Wr ght San Mateo 94401 Unbe evabe
Turn daho and Grant nto one way w thbke anes
ben toy San Mateo 94401
Return Humbo dt back to what t was before
sian Carke San Mateo 94401 yates — ia minis ie omm sel ei na zed commun t es to get across town, ths s on y go ng to make San
Wes ey Terpstra San Mateo 94401 These bke anes are on our street find t makes the street ook muchn cer and keeps th ngs much safer for my ch dren
M che e Wo fkan San Mateo 94401 The roads of San Mateo are not b ke fr end y we must save the few b ke anes we have
The dea that we wou d spend a huge amount of c ty, pub c, shared money toe mnate a pub c good and essenta yg ve a few
Lz Fegan San Mateo S404 \Grcn toi My hes eos cottoec pon ar ME orm we hve Tore and Wa GOT park OVINE TG WS COTE
anyone e se shou d fee entt edto pub c park ng for free e ther
Steve Km San Mateo 94401 Thebke anes are mportant
Mna Datumanong San Mateo 94401 Thebke anes are essenta
Joseph Campbe San Mateo 94401 SMshoudbeaddngbke anes not remov ng
Hannah Young San Mateo 94401 Safe roads need to be access b e to our commun ty
De rdre Ambadekar San Mateo 94401 Removngthebke nes wou d be amass ve waste of money and ad sserv ce to the North Centra commun ty

342 of 448


--- page 343 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Remov ng the bke ane doesn't make sense We are a ready see ng huge d fference w th respect to c eaner ne ghborhood and

Parmananda B sta San Mateo 94401 envronment, ess acc dents
Ova Kot er San Mateo 94401 Prortze the safety of b cyc sts over park ng spots
eo Gachet eer ee 94401 P ease save the b ke anes Weneed more and safer spaces forbkes am nervous every day mykdbkes toschoo, especa y n

the w nter when t s darker

P ease keep the b ke anes Pr ort zng car park ng spaces over safeb ke anes sbackwards P ease do not undo the mportant
work to prov de safe b ke anes

P ease keep b ke anes np ace at east on upper port on of N Humbo dt by the H gh Schoo atthe very east and keep Courthouse
Caro Pa aco San Mateo 94401 Parkng Lot open forn ght park ng The street has been safer s nce the anes went n t's eas er to ex t our dr veway and safer for
b kes and scooters

Pease keep b ke anes np ace at east on upper port on of N Humbo dt by the H gh Schoo atthe very east and keep Courthouse
Park ng Lot open forn ght park ng The street has been safer s nce the anes went n t's eas er to ex t our dr veway and safer

P ease don't remove the b ke anes many peop e use to get to and from schoo and need to be safe from traffic B cyc es have
Ange Wadsworth San Mateo 94401 zero mpact on the env ronment and are a hea thy form of transportat on We need more b kes on the road and fewer cars Don't
take away the safety of cyc sts

Gna Meyers- m San Mateo 94401

Caro Paaco San Mateo 94401

Shy Yn San Mateo 94401 Peasedonotcose the bke ane, so much death nb ke/foot traffic recent y n san mateo cosngbke ane s go ng backwards
Our roads are unsafe B cyc es prov de exerc se and em ss on free transportat on Ths sthetme for more anes The change w

Fock Bona San Mateo an make our streets safer, our arc eaner and mprove oursoca c mate Keep the San Mateo b ke anes and bu d more

Png Yang San Mateo 94401 Our k ds need to have a safe space tob ke /wakyoschoos There are so many k ds that are be ng dropped off or p cked up at
ths area too

Adan Reyes Rojas San Mateo 94401 N/A

Gary L San Mateo 94401 Love the b ke ane on Humbo dt st

Gary Sch ck San Mateo 94401 Let's keep the roads safe for cyc sts

Wayne Young San Mateo 94401 LArecent y passed Measure HLA Let's get the c ty to own up on the master b ke p an 2020

Bennet Meyers- m San Mates 94401 Keep our bke anes We want to see more nfrastructure forb kes nour ctynot ess These b ke anes make the streets safer for
our ch dren who wak, b ke, and scooter to schoo

Rta Arno d San Mateo 94401 ‘ftsbruta rdngabke outthere Takng awaythebke anesw be dangerous
nsane you'd remove the b ke anes nstead of wastng2m onto makethngs ess safe for ch dren and adu ts why not fix the
potho es nnorthcentra San Mateo One of the poorest areas of San Mateo w thterr b y ma nta ned roads and nstead of fix ng

valle cain Son Maton iad th ngs you want to take outb ke anes What are you thnk ng, t's d ot c to purpose y make t more dangerous to b ke North
centra has the worst rates of traffic vo ence n the c ty, you'd be mak ng teven worse,boodw_ be on your hands

N ck Gonza ez San Mateo 94401 want my fuck ng b ke ane, thank you

used the Humbo dt St bke ane to gotto work take t from south Humbo dt St to go to YMCA for gym, and buy grocery at
Gary i San Mateo 94401 TraderJoes asotake mybke/scooter the same route to take my connect ng bus stop to work (ntut nc) at92/101 ‘fee
very safe us ng the bke ane compares to before have to b ke on the s dewak

use these anes da y to commute and to bring my k ndergartner to schoo They are a major pr or ty n my ne ghborhood, and for
Kye Hrst San Mateo 94401 the the safety of my fam y Wh ecyc ng on nearby streets w thoutb ke anes, have been knocked down tw ce by a mov ng
vehce

343 of 448


--- page 344 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

use these bke anesa the tme Before they were put n, was nanacc dent nvo v ng someone sw ng ng there car door open
as wasrdngon the road a coup e of feet away from parked cars cou dnt stop ntme and was ht nthec av ce by the corner
of the door and was thrown off my b ke njur ng my knee and putt ng me on the ground n front of oncomngcars coud have

Mche e Lorenz San Mateo 94401 Fossey fe Wa
PLEASE don't getrd of the bke anes
use these bke anesa thetme Before they were put n, was nanacc dent nvo vng someone sw ng ng there car door open
as wasrdng on the road a coup e of feet away from parked cars cou dnt stop ntme and was ht nthec avce by the corner
M chee evans San klaten 94401 vel a ax and was thrown off my b ke njurng my knee and putt ng me on the ground nfrontofoncomngcars coud have
PLEASE don't get rd of the bke anes
use the bke anes n North Centra mutpetmesaweek They have made myr des safer, w thout quest on ‘ve ved here 25
Dyan Tweney San Mateo 3440! years and apprec ate the mprovements to make San Mateo more b ke fr end y We need to keep the anes not remove them
use the b ke ane tor de to and from schoo abouthafoftheschoo days apprec ate the addtona safety these b ke anes
M gue App eman San Mateo 94401 prov de on Humbo dt
M chae Exner San Mateo 94401 usethebke anea thetme o
James C arke San Mateo 94401 rdeths road onmyb ke qute often, t's a great spot to get through from north to south of town
Rebits piaaret Gen Mateo 94401 ve near Humbo dt street, the number of acc dents has s gn ficant y reduced after the b ke anes The car parked makes t so

hard to see the ncom ng cars nhumbod Ps keep the bke ane for everyone's safety

ve at Wood ake save the b ke anes So much money was spent to make the anes remov ng s go ng to cause cars to SPEED
Lnda Montoya San Mateo 94401 more Current y cars speed a ong Humbo dt but s ow down whenbkes onroad After dark usua y not many b ker ders use
Humbo dt see and hear speed ng cars after dark

Caspar L San Mateo 94401 ke the b ke ane to YMCA for basketba /exerc se, espec a y at nghttme
Sunny L San Mateo 94401 fee safe us ng the b ke ane to connect to the bay tra
Mche e L San Mateo 94401 fee saferdngmybkeonthebke ane to YMCA

am a teacher who b kes to work every day see many students us ng those anes P ease do not remove them for safety of our
Mary Lynagh San Mateo 94401 studentsandme t s aso a heathy cho ce to encourage everyone to cyc e nstead of creat ng more park ng spaces P ease do
not go backward Save ourb ke anes We ove them

Ever snce the bke ane was nsta ed, bought ab ke and reduced my drv ng downto ony need ngtorefi gas from b-weeky to
once every month Ths bke ane has made me fe t safer to r de on the road than ever before, n compar son to De aware Street

As adrvermysef, havea ways had cars ta gatng beh nd me extreme yc ose y where they are gnorng the speed mtonths
road They somet mes dr ve onto the oppos te ane just to cut off whoever s n front of them, whch ncreases ther sk of

T ng Tey San Mateo 94491 acc dents and comprom se the safety for others
We have had fata ty on the De aware Street just a few months ago, p ease do not comprom se on pedestr an and b ker safety
over car storages on the street Most res dents nth s area have amp e park ng spaces n ther home garages or dr veway There
s abso ute y no reason fora h gh y used pub c road to become a pr vate park ng space

Nck Berg n San Mateo 94401 Cyc ng s unsafe enough We need more space not ess

R chard fa aid San Maieo 94401 Cont nued bu d out of bcyce nfrastructure s crtca to meetngc mate goa s and support ng a grow ng popu at on wth

a ternat ve trans topt ons Removngbke anes sastep backwards P ease preserve our b cyc e nfrastructure

344 of 448


--- page 345 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

A nfoonue Zong San Mates 94401 et perl es Neat ed Pols rai ee mie py aye remove the b ke anes? F YOU GUYS NS ST TO REMOVE THE L NES,

Rebecca Hecht San Mateo 94401 AsaSanMateores dent, mp ore you tomantantheseb ke anes to keep our commun ty safe

Ann Edgar San Mateo 94401 Asafam yweusea bke anes around our ne ghborhood
As acyc stand commun ty member, strong y support the retent on of b ke anes on Humbo dt Safe and access be bk ng
and more connected c ty Pease et’s work to keep these anes np ace

Magge Bobb n San Mateo 94401

Tanaya Crz San Mateo 94401

Rob ni V avcenco San Mateo 94401

Jonathan Fe der San Mateo 94401

Mar ana T war San Mateo 94401

Mar ana T war San Mateo 94401

Cyrus Lmon San Mateo 94401

Carre Forde San Mateo 94401

Tanaya Crz San Mateo 94401

Kr stn H ensch San Mateo 94401

Max Mautner San Mateo 94401

Tony Samara San Mateo 94401

Jacob Chamoun San Mateo 94401

Chr st ne Cook San Mateo 94401

Chr st ne Cha San Mateo 94401

Katrna Cast o San Mateo 94401

karen jensen San Mateo 94401

Jeressa Cadz San Mateo 94401

Lucy Yeager San Mateo 94401

Emme Young San Mateo 94401

345 of 448


--- page 346 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Kay een Nguyen San Mateo 94401
Sha an Chau San Mateo 94401
Marco Rojas San Mateo 94401
Cand ce Can San Mateo 94401
Daru Zhang San Mateo 94401
Caspar L San Mateo 94401
chuy Jang San Mateo 94401
Wayne Young San Mateo 94401
Andrew Reback San Mateo 94401
E en De a pena San Mateo 94401
Lana Handy San Mateo 94401
Rebecca Shep er San Mateo 94401
Mara T San Mateo 94401
Emma Martens San Mateo 94401
LANDER FOQUET San Mateo 94401
Jenn fer Stmson San Mateo 94401
Marade Carme Munoz San Mateo 94401
Crysta Bev s San Mateo 94401
Rya Sngh San Mateo 94401
Lar ssa Kenny San Mateo 94401
Reg na Schnege berger San Mateo 94401
N cho as For no San Mateo 94401
Ange ca Nunez San Mateo 94401
Amy Xao San Mateo 94401
Crag Anderson San Mateo 94401
Chr s Jenny San Mateo 94401
Ph p Murphy San Mateo 94401

346 of 448


--- page 347 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Akra jun San Mateo 94401
Ho den Rodgers San Mateo 94401
Poky Wu San Mateo 94401
Dan Shaffer San Mateo 94401
Luc ana Torre San Mateo 94401
Jenn fer Tran San Mateo 94401
Jonathan New San Mateo 94401
Jay Pate San Mateo 94401
E zabeth Ha San Mateo 94401
A ex M er San Mateo 94401
Lana Chen San Mateo 94401
Max Mautner San Mateo 94401
Nate Nckoa San Mateo 94401
Darren Forde San Mateo 94401
Aaron Ver San Mateo 94401
Tanner Ww San Mateo 94401
Ryan E senauer San Mateo 94401
Ce este Wong San Mateo 94401
Seth San Mateo 94401
Jeff Harber San Mateo 94401
Sopha Arno d San Mateo 94401
Ange ca Amod San Mateo 94401
Matth eu Fe gue San Mateo 94401
Dav d Nng San Mateo 94401
Courtney Parks San Mateo 94401
Lena Gang San Mateo 94401
Wenjn Cheng San Mateo 94401

347 of 448


--- page 348 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Chr st ne Led e San Mateo 94401
Chr st ne Led e San Mateo 94401
Casey Straka San Mateo 94401
A ex M er San Mateo 94401
Shanna Howard San Mateo 94401
Gregory Knauf San Mateo 94401
T mothy Gr ffin San Mateo 94401
Wh e understand the cha enges, removng bke nfrastructure, reduc ng safety, and spend ng addt ona tax do ars on
Ko ja Sch uetter San Mateo 94402 demo ton woud be counterproductve nstead, suggest the cty mp ementares denta park ng perm t program, wh ch coud
better ba ance the needs of a commun ty members wh e preserv ng ex st ng nfrastructure
Con Madere San Mateo 94402 What s best for the who ec ty?
Ern Sta ngs San Mateo 94402 Weusethese anes P ease dont take them away
Katr na Bornste n San Mateo 94402 Weshou d be promot ng aternat ve methods of transportaton kecyc ng, not removngbke anes
Judy Syrkn-Nkoau San Mateo 94402 Weshoud be add ng more connected bke anes, nottakngbke anes away
Thao Le San Mateo 94402 Weneed these bke anes to keep schoo ch drenandfam es safe
Jonathan Km San Mateo 94402 Weneedtheb ke nfrastructure MORE connected, not ess
Steve Lang San Mateo 94402 Weneed more bke anes not ess
We need more b ke anes for most cyc sts to fee safe,not fewer The SMC Cv Grand Jury sent a report to the BOS nthe
P ease don't pr or t ze the conven ence of dr vers over the ves and bod es of cyc sts
Rk a a 94402 ior be b ke anes we can get P ease save the one on Humbo dt that he ps k ds get to schoo and adu ts get p aces w/o
Kar Kap an San Mateo 94402 Weneeda thebke anes we can get
These b ke anes form the core part of my commute to work W thout them, ‘d be forced to share the road w th motor sts dur ng
Jacob Zmmerman San Mateo 94402 rush hour, mak ng traffic s ower for cars beh nd me andr sk er formyse f The b ke anes form on Humbo dt street espec a y s
one of the best b ke anes nthe area, and ‘mhopngtoseemore ke t
Hannah Persamp er San Mateo 94402 These bke anes are cruca for the safety of our res dents
Kye mx San Mateo 94402 San Mateo's bcyce nfrastructure s embarrass ng on the best of days Do not make t worse
Crag McNamara San Mateo 94402 Removngbke anes s wrong
Jue Kokes San Mateo 94402 Pease save the b ke anes, we need these b ke anes for our grow ng popu at on and to keep b ker ders safe
Ryan Chow San Mateo 94402 Pease donotremove the b ke anes on Humbo dt

348 of 448


--- page 349 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Peter Bay ey San Mateo 94402 Peasedonotremovebke anes Asacommttedcyc st knowthsw make cyc ng more dangerous

Meg McG nty San Matéo gaago Pease donotremovebke anes Schoo ch dren and ther parents use these b ke anes every day to access schoo s - remov ng
these b ke anes endangers ch dren

Zack H tchcock San Mateo 94402 More and saferbke anes areneeded Remov ng them? Ser ous y?

Zxao Wang San Mateo 94402 Keep t

Tony Pere ra San Mateo 94402 ‘dkeepthebke anes nbetween schoo hours and after ‘da ow car park ng

Current y many of the b ke anes n these areas are actua y not safe enough, wh ch g ves them the fa se dea that they are
underused Aprme exampeofths stheS Norfok corr dor where many parts are too narrow, w th parked cars often

Matthew Eng San Mateo 94402 over app ng wth t further narrow ngsadbke ane Other anes such as N Humbo dt have a prob em where the anes s not
cont nuous at ntersect ons, ntroduc ng unsafe confl ct po nts between dr vers and cyc sts The reasonbke anes n San Mateo
are underut zed s because of poor and unsafe connect v ty, not a ack of demand

Cars are not more mportant than ch dren's ves, s mp eas that

t's shamefu that car cu ture s so pervas ve here that even the barest mn mum bke ane s atr sk to be rep aced w th e thera
s ght y w der car ane to encourage h gher dr v ng speeds, or more park ngthatw bockdrvervsb ty and ncrease the
ke hood of co sonswthch dren

San Mateo 94402
rde my b ke to the SM Ca tra n stat on through downtown wh chhas nobke anes and fee ncredbyunsafedueto ega,
dangerous behav or by peop e drvng veh ces
We shou d be add ng more b ke anes, not remov ng them
Camm e Parte ow San Mateo 94402 Bkes and other non-veh cu ar are essent a to we be ng and commun ty We need to encourage these not remove nfrastructure
B cyc e and pedestr an safety shou d be top prorty Whyspendm onsofdo arstoremove bke anes? The cty of San Mateo
on such a busy street, keep the b ke Lanes or of anyth ng str pe the more v sb y and put n phys ca barr ers aga nst cars
Magge Trinh San Mateo 94402
Bry Myers San Mateo 94402
Mche e Hudson San Mateo 94402
Steve Vander p San Mateo 94402
Sofia Daz San Mateo 94402
Pamea R tte meyer San Mateo 94402
Ana gnac o San Mateo 94402
lea Gates San Mateo 94402
Teresa Wen San Mateo 94402

349 of 448


--- page 350 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Danea Nems San Mateo 94402
Kye Burbach San Mateo 94402
Bruno Abreu San Mateo 94402
Jonathan Chan San Mateo 94402
Karen Canzoner San Mateo 94402
Aaron Mansfie d San Mateo 94402
Rebecca Cho San Mateo 94402
Dav d Hunt San Mateo 94402

San Mateo 94402
Bennett Rand San Mateo 94402
Adam Steffes San Mateo 94402
Arn Davood an San Mateo 94402
Aaron Rosenbaum San Mateo 94402
Laura Herrera San Mateo 94402
Justn Se San Mateo 94402
Kev n Han San Mateo 94402
J Ko ongowsk San Mateo 94402
E zabeth Wr ght San Mateo 94402
Mche e Hudson San Mateo 94402
Ern Lautsch San Mateo 94402
Ter Whtehar San Mateo 94402
Mary Rose LeBaron San Mateo 94402
Care Sh ntan San Mateo 94402
ngmar Haffke San Mateo 94403 WTF

We need your eadersh p to bu d a more wa kab e and b keab e San Mateo and save us from more traffic and gr d ock Park ng
Ka un Wu San Mateo 94403 canbe done onthe propert es and shou dn'itre yoncurbs bkeamostda y nSan Mateo for preschoo p ckups and we are n
dre need for more b ke anes,not ess Safety s more mportant than curb park ng Thank you

350 of 448


--- page 351 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

J Lang San Mateo 94403 Weneed to keep the b ke anes open for the safety of fam esbkng to schoo

Web keto co ege park schoo everyday Havngabke ne s very mportant forthe schoo commute P ease keep the bke nes
for the safety of everyone

The b ke anes make t safer for dr vers and pedestr ans too There s way ess overa congest on onb ke- ane streets so dr vers
arenotpu ng tothe s de/tak ngturns wh e ook ng out for pedestr ans andcyc stswthmnma vsb ty becauseofa the

San Mateo 94403 parked cars Less potent a acc dents forbothcars andpeope de berate y spentt me on goog e maps ook ng up streets w/
ded cated b ke nes tocreatemy schoo drop off route f you're not gong to add more b ke anes, at east don't take away the
ex st ng ones

The b ke anes are essent a for prov d ng safe, access b e, and eco-fr end y transportat on opt ons for students, parents, and

Ka en Chen San Mateo 94403

Yang We San Mateo a4509 staff Preserving the b ke anes a ows us to have a hea th er, more susta nab e future

Dane e Gray San Mateo 94403 San Mateo needs more b ke nfrastructure, not ess Save the b ke anes to save ch dren's ves

Caro ynn Beer San Mateo 94403 Removngbke anesseems ke a huge step backward, not to ment on a fr vo ous use of money

Ka Haffke San Mateo 94403 Rea y?

Kare — San nates 94403 P ease keep these b ke anes open forthe safety of a cyc sts & to tear someth ng up that was just put n s a waste of money t's

more benefic a for then to stay & Save ves of the cyc sts

P ease keep the b ke anes to protect the safety of bcyc sts P ease create and promote better saferb ke anes so more peop e
Be nda Ch ouber San Mateo 94403 fee safebkng , honesty, thnk the cty d dnt do a very good job creat ng the currentb ke system ‘ve seen such better systems
nother ctes Much safer systems

P ease keep the b ke Lanes near the schoo s t's hard for parents to mon tor them a the tmeso we need some safety measures

Jared Lee San Mateo 94403 so they can get to schoo

Prsc a Schochet San Mateo 94403 P ease keep out roads safe forb kers parents andkds Every day we see more and more rrespons b e dr vers speed ng and not
y e dng to pedestr ans or bkers P ease keep our commun ty safe
P ease keep our streets safe for k ds and adu ts who are gett ng out there, mov ng the r bod es and reduc ng the r negat ve mpact

Jenn fer Zee San Mateo 94403 on the env ronment Keep the b ke anes

Noah Lstgarten San Mateo 94403 Keep the bke anes to keep our ctes and peop e safe

Kye Fukumoto San Mateo 94403 Keepbke anes

Lou se Yarna San Mateo 94403 nthe nterest of safety and to support ow em ss ons transportat on, support b ke path proposa s

hare Vargas Savkleres 94403 fthese bake anes are removed many ch dren aduts andteenw be affected seeso many peop eb keto schoo and work

every morn ng and by remov ng these b ke anes t won't be safe for b kers any more
9aao3. Se the b ke ane toh ke from Parks de area to San Mateo H gh Schoo regu ary We need more act on around educat ng a

Mare hegre Sant Mateo peop eto use the b ke anes ( nstead of bk ng on the s dewa ks) and for cars to get t cketed when they park nthe bke anes

use the b ke ane on Humbot da y to go to work n Bur ngame Removngths anew put my car free commute atr sk B ke
Vkes Rumer Sen Mateo 94803 anes on ths route sessenta formeto fee safe durng myr de to work

use b ke anes to cross San Mateo from home near H sdaetoschoo nNorth Centra at east once a week Ths scrtca
Ph p Kng San Mateo 94403 safety nfrastructureand ‘dfee ess safebkng nSan Mateo wth out t Anareawthwe over 1,000 students and anew mdde

schoo beng bu d must have safe streets more than ever
ved n bay meadow and b ked onths ane everyday for work don't understand why peop e wants to remove t, p ease don't

Sarah Zhao San Mateo 94403 often see other peop eb ke nths ane too, t s a good used bke ane and p ease keep t
Rajnes Don San Mateo 94403 commute by b ke to work nSan Mateo t s dangerous enough even w th b ke anes so remov ng bke anes wou d sgn ficant y

ncrease the r sk for acc dents and trag c outcomes P ease recons der ths dec s on

351 of 448


--- page 352 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

AM ehae ewire Savkleres 94403 ony eas ae " ore bee ie a Ae i hed ee os ae backwards nstead of mov ng forward w th the ong back og of
Andrea Stewart San Mateo 94403 Asa parent who b kes around w th her k ds, p ease don't remove anymore b ke anes
Bened ct Chant San Mateo 94403 Asaheadofschoo have seen the va ue of gv ng ch dren the opt on of a safer de to schoo
John Steward San Mateo 94403 Are you ser ous?

Anya Ln San Mateo 94403

Anthony Ladean San Mateo 94403

Nathan e Chen San Mateo 94403

Naa Hs eh San Mateo 94403

Aurora Yazze San Mateo 94403

M gnon Be onge San Mateo 94403

A son Ross San Mateo 94403

Karen Fed San Mateo 94403

Margot Du Mano r San Mateo 94403

Johanna Dah ya San Mateo 94403

Bhargav Rajan San Mateo 94403

Kent Gorday San Mateo 94403

Me nda Chn San Mateo 94403

Mary Burns San Mateo 94403

D pt fa San Mateo 94403

Lauren Baumgartner San Mateo 94403

Jame G on San Mateo 94403

Lana de Leon San Mateo 94403

Kar na W hems San Mateo 94403

Ange ca Braga San Mateo 94403

Nathanae Horton San Mateo 94403

Lsa Garr ty San Mateo 94403

352 of 448


--- page 353 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Franc s Johnson San Mateo 94403
Cara Coady San Mateo 94403
Jue San Mateo 94403

San Mateo 94403
Joshua Magee San Mateo 94403
A son Merk e San Mateo 94403

San Mateo 94403
Grace W jaya San Mateo 94403
James Zhu San Mateo 94403
Jeremy Po ndexter San Mateo 94403
Ann Powers San Mateo 94403
Lsa Raye San Mateo 94403
Xut ng Sheng San Mateo 94403
James Nee San Mateo 94403
Br an Peters San Mateo 94403
Rewand Congeus San Mateo 94403
Mandy Pederson San Mateo 94403
Ra yan Seede San Mateo 94403
Petra $ ton San Mateo 94403

353 of 448


--- page 354 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

We shou d be upgrad ng our b ke anes to be rea, true protected b ke anes to prov de safety to the many peop e who commute by
John Kr San Mateo 94401 bke,soca ze by bke, shop by b ke, and exerc se by b ke Remov ng the anes wou d be a step backwards for our c mate goas
and make San Mateo a poor, second rate cty  d dnt move here just for conservat ves to remove our b ke anes

We need to protect Safe Routes to Schoo and cont nue to make progress aganst Vson Zero Humbo dt St s one of the most
A son MacQueen San Mateo 94401 dangerous streets nSan Mateo County hgh njury rates fora three modes of trave b ke, pedestran,andvehce One ofony0
streets nSan Mateo County Thebke anes are see ng 10,000+ b ke tr ps each month per data from the C ty of San Mateo

We need to protect our commun ty and espec a y the ones on vu nerab e modes of transportat on Teach our commun ty dr v ng

Laura Kubba San Mateo 94401 safety, p ease

¥ Young San Mateo 94401 Weneedthebke anes

Lan i San Mateo 94401 Wedefinte y need the b ke anes
LANDER FOQUET San Mateo 94401 Weare not go ng back

We are heavy users of San Mateo bke anes Ourb ke s ourmanmode oftransport use t to take my daughter to schoo , back
Ana Sa ott San Mateo 94401 and forth, to go grocery shopp ng and pretty much for every trp fanythng San Mateo shoud nerease the ava ab ty of bke
anes, not remove them

Abbey ti San Mateo 94401 usethebke ane to YMCA for sw mm ng at the even ng
E eonore Wr ght San Mateo 94401 Unbe evabe Ths must change
Peter Coe San Mateo 94401 Unbe evabe
Peter Wr ght San Mateo 94401 Unbe evabe
Turn daho and Grant nto one way w thbke anes
ben toy San Mateo 94401
Return Humbo dt back to what t was before
sian Carke San Mateo 94401 yates — ia minis ie omm sel ei na zed commun t es to get across town, ths s on y go ng to make San
Wes ey Terpstra San Mateo 94401 These bke anes are on our street find t makes the street ook muchn cer and keeps th ngs much safer for my ch dren
M che e Wo fkan San Mateo 94401 The roads of San Mateo are not b ke fr end y we must save the few b ke anes we have
The dea that we wou d spend a huge amount of c ty, pub c, shared money toe mnate a pub c good and essenta yg ve a few
Lz Fegan San Mateo S404 \Grcn toi My hes eos cottoec pon ar ME orm we hve Tore and Wa GOT park OVINE TG WS COTE
anyone e se shou d fee entt edto pub c park ng for free e ther
Steve Km San Mateo 94401 Thebke anes are mportant
Mna Datumanong San Mateo 94401 Thebke anes are essenta
Joseph Campbe San Mateo 94401 SMshoudbeaddngbke anes not remov ng
Hannah Young San Mateo 94401 Safe roads need to be access b e to our commun ty
De rdre Ambadekar San Mateo 94401 Removngthebke nes wou d be amass ve waste of money and ad sserv ce to the North Centra commun ty

354 of 448


--- page 355 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Remov ng the bke ane doesn't make sense We are a ready see ng huge d fference w th respect to c eaner ne ghborhood and

Parmananda B sta San Mateo 94401 envronment, ess acc dents
Ova Kot er San Mateo 94401 Prortze the safety of b cyc sts over park ng spots
eo Gachet eer ee 94401 P ease save the b ke anes Weneed more and safer spaces forbkes am nervous every day mykdbkes toschoo, especa y n

the w nter when t s darker

P ease keep the b ke anes Pr ort zng car park ng spaces over safeb ke anes sbackwards P ease do not undo the mportant
work to prov de safe b ke anes

P ease keep b ke anes np ace at east on upper port on of N Humbo dt by the H gh Schoo atthe very east and keep Courthouse
Caro Pa aco San Mateo 94401 Parkng Lot open forn ght park ng The street has been safer s nce the anes went n t's eas er to ex t our dr veway and safer for
b kes and scooters

Pease keep b ke anes np ace at east on upper port on of N Humbo dt by the H gh Schoo atthe very east and keep Courthouse
Park ng Lot open forn ght park ng The street has been safer s nce the anes went n t's eas er to ex t our dr veway and safer

P ease don't remove the b ke anes many peop e use to get to and from schoo and need to be safe from traffic B cyc es have
Ange Wadsworth San Mateo 94401 zero mpact on the env ronment and are a hea thy form of transportat on We need more b kes on the road and fewer cars Don't
take away the safety of cyc sts

Gna Meyers- m San Mateo 94401

Caro Paaco San Mateo 94401

Shy Yn San Mateo 94401 Peasedonotcose the bke ane, so much death nb ke/foot traffic recent y n san mateo cosngbke ane s go ng backwards
Our roads are unsafe B cyc es prov de exerc se and em ss on free transportat on Ths sthetme for more anes The change w

Fock Bona San Mateo an make our streets safer, our arc eaner and mprove oursoca c mate Keep the San Mateo b ke anes and bu d more

Png Yang San Mateo 94401 Our k ds need to have a safe space tob ke /wakyoschoos There are so many k ds that are be ng dropped off or p cked up at
ths area too

Adan Reyes Rojas San Mateo 94401 N/A

Gary L San Mateo 94401 Love the b ke ane on Humbo dt st

Gary Sch ck San Mateo 94401 Let's keep the roads safe for cyc sts

Wayne Young San Mateo 94401 LArecent y passed Measure HLA Let's get the c ty to own up on the master b ke p an 2020

Bennet Meyers- m San Mates 94401 Keep our bke anes We want to see more nfrastructure forb kes nour ctynot ess These b ke anes make the streets safer for
our ch dren who wak, b ke, and scooter to schoo

Rta Arno d San Mateo 94401 ‘ftsbruta rdngabke outthere Takng awaythebke anesw be dangerous
nsane you'd remove the b ke anes nstead of wastng2m onto makethngs ess safe for ch dren and adu ts why not fix the
potho es nnorthcentra San Mateo One of the poorest areas of San Mateo w thterr b y ma nta ned roads and nstead of fix ng

valle cain Son Maton iad th ngs you want to take outb ke anes What are you thnk ng, t's d ot c to purpose y make t more dangerous to b ke North
centra has the worst rates of traffic vo ence n the c ty, you'd be mak ng teven worse,boodw_ be on your hands

N ck Gonza ez San Mateo 94401 want my fuck ng b ke ane, thank you

used the Humbo dt St bke ane to gotto work take t from south Humbo dt St to go to YMCA for gym, and buy grocery at
Gary i San Mateo 94401 TraderJoes asotake mybke/scooter the same route to take my connect ng bus stop to work (ntut nc) at92/101 ‘fee
very safe us ng the bke ane compares to before have to b ke on the s dewak

use these anes da y to commute and to bring my k ndergartner to schoo They are a major pr or ty n my ne ghborhood, and for
Kye Hrst San Mateo 94401 the the safety of my fam y Wh ecyc ng on nearby streets w thoutb ke anes, have been knocked down tw ce by a mov ng
vehce

355 of 448


--- page 356 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

use these bke anesa the tme Before they were put n, was nanacc dent nvo v ng someone sw ng ng there car door open
as wasrdngon the road a coup e of feet away from parked cars cou dnt stop ntme and was ht nthec av ce by the corner
of the door and was thrown off my b ke njur ng my knee and putt ng me on the ground n front of oncomngcars coud have

Mche e Lorenz San Mateo 94401 Fossey fe Wa
PLEASE don't getrd of the bke anes
use these bke anesa thetme Before they were put n, was nanacc dent nvo vng someone sw ng ng there car door open
as wasrdng on the road a coup e of feet away from parked cars cou dnt stop ntme and was ht nthec avce by the corner
M chee evans San klaten 94401 vel a ax and was thrown off my b ke njurng my knee and putt ng me on the ground nfrontofoncomngcars coud have
PLEASE don't get rd of the bke anes
use the bke anes n North Centra mutpetmesaweek They have made myr des safer, w thout quest on ‘ve ved here 25
Dyan Tweney San Mateo 3440! years and apprec ate the mprovements to make San Mateo more b ke fr end y We need to keep the anes not remove them
use the b ke ane tor de to and from schoo abouthafoftheschoo days apprec ate the addtona safety these b ke anes
M gue App eman San Mateo 94401 prov de on Humbo dt
M chae Exner San Mateo 94401 usethebke anea thetme o
James C arke San Mateo 94401 rdeths road onmyb ke qute often, t's a great spot to get through from north to south of town
Rebits piaaret Gen Mateo 94401 ve near Humbo dt street, the number of acc dents has s gn ficant y reduced after the b ke anes The car parked makes t so

hard to see the ncom ng cars nhumbod Ps keep the bke ane for everyone's safety

ve at Wood ake save the b ke anes So much money was spent to make the anes remov ng s go ng to cause cars to SPEED
Lnda Montoya San Mateo 94401 more Current y cars speed a ong Humbo dt but s ow down whenbkes onroad After dark usua y not many b ker ders use
Humbo dt see and hear speed ng cars after dark

Caspar L San Mateo 94401 ke the b ke ane to YMCA for basketba /exerc se, espec a y at nghttme
Sunny L San Mateo 94401 fee safe us ng the b ke ane to connect to the bay tra
Mche e L San Mateo 94401 fee saferdngmybkeonthebke ane to YMCA

am a teacher who b kes to work every day see many students us ng those anes P ease do not remove them for safety of our
Mary Lynagh San Mateo 94401 studentsandme t s aso a heathy cho ce to encourage everyone to cyc e nstead of creat ng more park ng spaces P ease do
not go backward Save ourb ke anes We ove them

Ever snce the bke ane was nsta ed, bought ab ke and reduced my drv ng downto ony need ngtorefi gas from b-weeky to
once every month Ths bke ane has made me fe t safer to r de on the road than ever before, n compar son to De aware Street

As adrvermysef, havea ways had cars ta gatng beh nd me extreme yc ose y where they are gnorng the speed mtonths
road They somet mes dr ve onto the oppos te ane just to cut off whoever s n front of them, whch ncreases ther sk of

T ng Tey San Mateo 94491 acc dents and comprom se the safety for others
We have had fata ty on the De aware Street just a few months ago, p ease do not comprom se on pedestr an and b ker safety
over car storages on the street Most res dents nth s area have amp e park ng spaces n ther home garages or dr veway There
s abso ute y no reason fora h gh y used pub c road to become a pr vate park ng space

Nck Berg n San Mateo 94401 Cyc ng s unsafe enough We need more space not ess

R chard fa aid San Maieo 94401 Cont nued bu d out of bcyce nfrastructure s crtca to meetngc mate goa s and support ng a grow ng popu at on wth

a ternat ve trans topt ons Removngbke anes sastep backwards P ease preserve our b cyc e nfrastructure

356 of 448


--- page 357 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

A nfoonue Zong San Mates 94401 et perl es Neat ed Pols rai ee mie py aye remove the b ke anes? F YOU GUYS NS ST TO REMOVE THE L NES,

Rebecca Hecht San Mateo 94401 AsaSanMateores dent, mp ore you tomantantheseb ke anes to keep our commun ty safe

Ann Edgar San Mateo 94401 Asafam yweusea bke anes around our ne ghborhood
As acyc stand commun ty member, strong y support the retent on of b ke anes on Humbo dt Safe and access be bk ng
and more connected c ty Pease et’s work to keep these anes np ace

Magge Bobb n San Mateo 94401

Tanaya Crz San Mateo 94401

Rob ni V avcenco San Mateo 94401

Jonathan Fe der San Mateo 94401

Mar ana T war San Mateo 94401

Mar ana T war San Mateo 94401

Cyrus Lmon San Mateo 94401

Carre Forde San Mateo 94401

Tanaya Crz San Mateo 94401

Kr stn H ensch San Mateo 94401

Max Mautner San Mateo 94401

Tony Samara San Mateo 94401

Jacob Chamoun San Mateo 94401

Chr st ne Cook San Mateo 94401

Chr st ne Cha San Mateo 94401

Katrna Cast o San Mateo 94401

karen jensen San Mateo 94401

Jeressa Cadz San Mateo 94401

Lucy Yeager San Mateo 94401

Emme Young San Mateo 94401

357 of 448


--- page 358 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Kay een Nguyen San Mateo 94401
Sha an Chau San Mateo 94401
Marco Rojas San Mateo 94401
Cand ce Can San Mateo 94401
Daru Zhang San Mateo 94401
Caspar L San Mateo 94401
chuy Jang San Mateo 94401
Wayne Young San Mateo 94401
Andrew Reback San Mateo 94401
E en De a pena San Mateo 94401
Lana Handy San Mateo 94401
Rebecca Shep er San Mateo 94401
Mara T San Mateo 94401
Emma Martens San Mateo 94401
LANDER FOQUET San Mateo 94401
Jenn fer Stmson San Mateo 94401
Marade Carme Munoz San Mateo 94401
Crysta Bev s San Mateo 94401
Rya Sngh San Mateo 94401
Lar ssa Kenny San Mateo 94401
Reg na Schnege berger San Mateo 94401
N cho as For no San Mateo 94401
Ange ca Nunez San Mateo 94401
Amy Xao San Mateo 94401
Crag Anderson San Mateo 94401
Chr s Jenny San Mateo 94401
Ph p Murphy San Mateo 94401

358 of 448


--- page 359 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Akra jun San Mateo 94401
Ho den Rodgers San Mateo 94401
Poky Wu San Mateo 94401
Dan Shaffer San Mateo 94401
Luc ana Torre San Mateo 94401
Jenn fer Tran San Mateo 94401
Jonathan New San Mateo 94401
Jay Pate San Mateo 94401
E zabeth Ha San Mateo 94401
A ex M er San Mateo 94401
Lana Chen San Mateo 94401
Max Mautner San Mateo 94401
Nate Nckoa San Mateo 94401
Darren Forde San Mateo 94401
Aaron Ver San Mateo 94401
Tanner Ww San Mateo 94401
Ryan E senauer San Mateo 94401
Ce este Wong San Mateo 94401
Seth San Mateo 94401
Jeff Harber San Mateo 94401
Sopha Arno d San Mateo 94401
Ange ca Amod San Mateo 94401
Matth eu Fe gue San Mateo 94401
Dav d Nng San Mateo 94401
Courtney Parks San Mateo 94401
Lena Gang San Mateo 94401
Wenjn Cheng San Mateo 94401

359 of 448


--- page 360 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Chr st ne Led e San Mateo 94401
Chr st ne Led e San Mateo 94401
Casey Straka San Mateo 94401
A ex M er San Mateo 94401
Shanna Howard San Mateo 94401
Gregory Knauf San Mateo 94401
T mothy Gr ffin San Mateo 94401
Wh e understand the cha enges, removng bke nfrastructure, reduc ng safety, and spend ng addt ona tax do ars on
Ko ja Sch uetter San Mateo 94402 demo ton woud be counterproductve nstead, suggest the cty mp ementares denta park ng perm t program, wh ch coud
better ba ance the needs of a commun ty members wh e preserv ng ex st ng nfrastructure
Con Madere San Mateo 94402 What s best for the who ec ty?
Ern Sta ngs San Mateo 94402 Weusethese anes P ease dont take them away
Katr na Bornste n San Mateo 94402 Weshou d be promot ng aternat ve methods of transportaton kecyc ng, not removngbke anes
Judy Syrkn-Nkoau San Mateo 94402 Weshoud be add ng more connected bke anes, nottakngbke anes away
Thao Le San Mateo 94402 Weneed these bke anes to keep schoo ch drenandfam es safe
Jonathan Km San Mateo 94402 Weneedtheb ke nfrastructure MORE connected, not ess
Steve Lang San Mateo 94402 Weneed more bke anes not ess
We need more b ke anes for most cyc sts to fee safe,not fewer The SMC Cv Grand Jury sent a report to the BOS nthe
P ease don't pr or t ze the conven ence of dr vers over the ves and bod es of cyc sts
Rk a a 94402 ior be b ke anes we can get P ease save the one on Humbo dt that he ps k ds get to schoo and adu ts get p aces w/o
Kar Kap an San Mateo 94402 Weneeda thebke anes we can get
These b ke anes form the core part of my commute to work W thout them, ‘d be forced to share the road w th motor sts dur ng
Jacob Zmmerman San Mateo 94402 rush hour, mak ng traffic s ower for cars beh nd me andr sk er formyse f The b ke anes form on Humbo dt street espec a y s
one of the best b ke anes nthe area, and ‘mhopngtoseemore ke t
Hannah Persamp er San Mateo 94402 These bke anes are cruca for the safety of our res dents
Kye mx San Mateo 94402 San Mateo's bcyce nfrastructure s embarrass ng on the best of days Do not make t worse
Crag McNamara San Mateo 94402 Removngbke anes s wrong
Jue Kokes San Mateo 94402 Pease save the b ke anes, we need these b ke anes for our grow ng popu at on and to keep b ker ders safe
Ryan Chow San Mateo 94402 Pease donotremove the b ke anes on Humbo dt

360 of 448


--- page 361 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Peter Bay ey San Mateo 94402 Peasedonotremovebke anes Asacommttedcyc st knowthsw make cyc ng more dangerous

Meg McG nty San Matéo gaago Pease donotremovebke anes Schoo ch dren and ther parents use these b ke anes every day to access schoo s - remov ng
these b ke anes endangers ch dren

Zack H tchcock San Mateo 94402 More and saferbke anes areneeded Remov ng them? Ser ous y?

Zxao Wang San Mateo 94402 Keep t

Tony Pere ra San Mateo 94402 ‘dkeepthebke anes nbetween schoo hours and after ‘da ow car park ng

Current y many of the b ke anes n these areas are actua y not safe enough, wh ch g ves them the fa se dea that they are
underused Aprme exampeofths stheS Norfok corr dor where many parts are too narrow, w th parked cars often

Matthew Eng San Mateo 94402 over app ng wth t further narrow ngsadbke ane Other anes such as N Humbo dt have a prob em where the anes s not
cont nuous at ntersect ons, ntroduc ng unsafe confl ct po nts between dr vers and cyc sts The reasonbke anes n San Mateo
are underut zed s because of poor and unsafe connect v ty, not a ack of demand

Cars are not more mportant than ch dren's ves, s mp eas that

t's shamefu that car cu ture s so pervas ve here that even the barest mn mum bke ane s atr sk to be rep aced w th e thera
s ght y w der car ane to encourage h gher dr v ng speeds, or more park ngthatw bockdrvervsb ty and ncrease the
ke hood of co sonswthch dren

San Mateo 94402
rde my b ke to the SM Ca tra n stat on through downtown wh chhas nobke anes and fee ncredbyunsafedueto ega,
dangerous behav or by peop e drvng veh ces
We shou d be add ng more b ke anes, not remov ng them
Camm e Parte ow San Mateo 94402 Bkes and other non-veh cu ar are essent a to we be ng and commun ty We need to encourage these not remove nfrastructure
B cyc e and pedestr an safety shou d be top prorty Whyspendm onsofdo arstoremove bke anes? The cty of San Mateo
on such a busy street, keep the b ke Lanes or of anyth ng str pe the more v sb y and put n phys ca barr ers aga nst cars
Magge Trinh San Mateo 94402
Bry Myers San Mateo 94402
Mche e Hudson San Mateo 94402
Steve Vander p San Mateo 94402
Sofia Daz San Mateo 94402
Pamea R tte meyer San Mateo 94402
Ana gnac o San Mateo 94402
lea Gates San Mateo 94402
Teresa Wen San Mateo 94402

361 of 448


--- page 362 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Danea Nems San Mateo 94402
Kye Burbach San Mateo 94402
Bruno Abreu San Mateo 94402
Jonathan Chan San Mateo 94402
Karen Canzoner San Mateo 94402
Aaron Mansfie d San Mateo 94402
Rebecca Cho San Mateo 94402
Dav d Hunt San Mateo 94402

San Mateo 94402
Bennett Rand San Mateo 94402
Adam Steffes San Mateo 94402
Arn Davood an San Mateo 94402
Aaron Rosenbaum San Mateo 94402
Laura Herrera San Mateo 94402
Justn Se San Mateo 94402
Kev n Han San Mateo 94402
J Ko ongowsk San Mateo 94402
E zabeth Wr ght San Mateo 94402
Mche e Hudson San Mateo 94402
Ern Lautsch San Mateo 94402
Ter Whtehar San Mateo 94402
Mary Rose LeBaron San Mateo 94402
Care Sh ntan San Mateo 94402
ngmar Haffke San Mateo 94403 WTF

We need your eadersh p to bu d a more wa kab e and b keab e San Mateo and save us from more traffic and gr d ock Park ng
Ka un Wu San Mateo 94403 canbe done onthe propert es and shou dn'itre yoncurbs bkeamostda y nSan Mateo for preschoo p ckups and we are n
dre need for more b ke anes,not ess Safety s more mportant than curb park ng Thank you

362 of 448


--- page 363 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

J Lang San Mateo 94403 Weneed to keep the b ke anes open for the safety of fam esbkng to schoo

Web keto co ege park schoo everyday Havngabke ne s very mportant forthe schoo commute P ease keep the bke nes
for the safety of everyone

The b ke anes make t safer for dr vers and pedestr ans too There s way ess overa congest on onb ke- ane streets so dr vers
arenotpu ng tothe s de/tak ngturns wh e ook ng out for pedestr ans andcyc stswthmnma vsb ty becauseofa the

San Mateo 94403 parked cars Less potent a acc dents forbothcars andpeope de berate y spentt me on goog e maps ook ng up streets w/
ded cated b ke nes tocreatemy schoo drop off route f you're not gong to add more b ke anes, at east don't take away the
ex st ng ones

The b ke anes are essent a for prov d ng safe, access b e, and eco-fr end y transportat on opt ons for students, parents, and

Ka en Chen San Mateo 94403

Yang We San Mateo a4509 staff Preserving the b ke anes a ows us to have a hea th er, more susta nab e future

Dane e Gray San Mateo 94403 San Mateo needs more b ke nfrastructure, not ess Save the b ke anes to save ch dren's ves

Caro ynn Beer San Mateo 94403 Removngbke anesseems ke a huge step backward, not to ment on a fr vo ous use of money

Ka Haffke San Mateo 94403 Rea y?

Kare — San nates 94403 P ease keep these b ke anes open forthe safety of a cyc sts & to tear someth ng up that was just put n s a waste of money t's

more benefic a for then to stay & Save ves of the cyc sts

P ease keep the b ke anes to protect the safety of bcyc sts P ease create and promote better saferb ke anes so more peop e
Be nda Ch ouber San Mateo 94403 fee safebkng , honesty, thnk the cty d dnt do a very good job creat ng the currentb ke system ‘ve seen such better systems
nother ctes Much safer systems

P ease keep the b ke Lanes near the schoo s t's hard for parents to mon tor them a the tmeso we need some safety measures

Jared Lee San Mateo 94403 so they can get to schoo

Prsc a Schochet San Mateo 94403 P ease keep out roads safe forb kers parents andkds Every day we see more and more rrespons b e dr vers speed ng and not
y e dng to pedestr ans or bkers P ease keep our commun ty safe
P ease keep our streets safe for k ds and adu ts who are gett ng out there, mov ng the r bod es and reduc ng the r negat ve mpact

Jenn fer Zee San Mateo 94403 on the env ronment Keep the b ke anes

Noah Lstgarten San Mateo 94403 Keep the bke anes to keep our ctes and peop e safe

Kye Fukumoto San Mateo 94403 Keepbke anes

Lou se Yarna San Mateo 94403 nthe nterest of safety and to support ow em ss ons transportat on, support b ke path proposa s

hare Vargas Savkleres 94403 fthese bake anes are removed many ch dren aduts andteenw be affected seeso many peop eb keto schoo and work

every morn ng and by remov ng these b ke anes t won't be safe for b kers any more
9aao3. Se the b ke ane toh ke from Parks de area to San Mateo H gh Schoo regu ary We need more act on around educat ng a

Mare hegre Sant Mateo peop eto use the b ke anes ( nstead of bk ng on the s dewa ks) and for cars to get t cketed when they park nthe bke anes

use the b ke ane on Humbot da y to go to work n Bur ngame Removngths anew put my car free commute atr sk B ke
Vkes Rumer Sen Mateo 94803 anes on ths route sessenta formeto fee safe durng myr de to work

use b ke anes to cross San Mateo from home near H sdaetoschoo nNorth Centra at east once a week Ths scrtca
Ph p Kng San Mateo 94403 safety nfrastructureand ‘dfee ess safebkng nSan Mateo wth out t Anareawthwe over 1,000 students and anew mdde

schoo beng bu d must have safe streets more than ever
ved n bay meadow and b ked onths ane everyday for work don't understand why peop e wants to remove t, p ease don't

Sarah Zhao San Mateo 94403 often see other peop eb ke nths ane too, t s a good used bke ane and p ease keep t
Rajnes Don San Mateo 94403 commute by b ke to work nSan Mateo t s dangerous enough even w th b ke anes so remov ng bke anes wou d sgn ficant y

ncrease the r sk for acc dents and trag c outcomes P ease recons der ths dec s on

363 of 448


--- page 364 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

AM ehae ewire Savkleres 94403 ony eas ae " ore bee ie a Ae i hed ee os ae backwards nstead of mov ng forward w th the ong back og of
Andrea Stewart San Mateo 94403 Asa parent who b kes around w th her k ds, p ease don't remove anymore b ke anes
Bened ct Chant San Mateo 94403 Asaheadofschoo have seen the va ue of gv ng ch dren the opt on of a safer de to schoo
John Steward San Mateo 94403 Are you ser ous?

Anya Ln San Mateo 94403

Anthony Ladean San Mateo 94403

Nathan e Chen San Mateo 94403

Naa Hs eh San Mateo 94403

Aurora Yazze San Mateo 94403

M gnon Be onge San Mateo 94403

A son Ross San Mateo 94403

Karen Fed San Mateo 94403

Margot Du Mano r San Mateo 94403

Johanna Dah ya San Mateo 94403

Bhargav Rajan San Mateo 94403

Kent Gorday San Mateo 94403

Me nda Chn San Mateo 94403

Mary Burns San Mateo 94403

D pt fa San Mateo 94403

Lauren Baumgartner San Mateo 94403

Jame G on San Mateo 94403

Lana de Leon San Mateo 94403

Kar na W hems San Mateo 94403

Ange ca Braga San Mateo 94403

Nathanae Horton San Mateo 94403

Lsa Garr ty San Mateo 94403

364 of 448


--- page 365 ---
First name Last name ZIP code Comments

Franc s Johnson San Mateo 94403
Cara Coady San Mateo 94403
Jue San Mateo 94403

San Mateo 94403
Joshua Magee San Mateo 94403
A son Merk e San Mateo 94403

San Mateo 94403
Grace W jaya San Mateo 94403
James Zhu San Mateo 94403
Jeremy Po ndexter San Mateo 94403
Ann Powers San Mateo 94403
Lsa Raye San Mateo 94403
Xut ng Sheng San Mateo 94403
James Nee San Mateo 94403
Br an Peters San Mateo 94403
Rewand Congeus San Mateo 94403
Mandy Pederson San Mateo 94403
Ra yan Seede San Mateo 94403
Petra $ ton San Mateo 94403

365 of 448


--- page 366 ---
Sent: Thursday, January 30, 2025 4:50 PM
To: citycouncil@cityofsanmate.org; Clerk
Subject: SMFCSD Resolution 10-24/25
Attachments: SMFC Resolution 10-2425.pdf

Good afternoon,

I'm writing to convey the signed resolution adopted by the San Mateo-Foster City School District on
January 23, 2025 in support of the Humboldt bike lanes and Safe Routes to School more generally. |
appreciate your time and attention to this important issue, and look forward to working together for the
benefit of our shared community.

Thank you,
Maggie Trinh

Vice President
San Mateo-Foster City School District Board of Trustees

366 of 448


--- page 367 ---
RESOLUTION NO. 10/24-25

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
OF THE SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT
IN SUPPORT OF THE PRESERVATION OF SAFE BICYCLE LANES
ON HUMBOLDT STREET IN SAN MATEO

WHEREAS, it is of utmost importance that we address the critical need to maintain safe and
accessible bicycle infrastructure within our community.

Meanwhile, ensuring our students’ and families' safety and well-being is paramount to creating a
sustainable and secure environment for all individuals.

WHEREAS, the Humboldt Street bike lanes, stretching 1.6 miles, stand as one of the longest and
most vital segments of bicycle infrastructure in the City of San Mateo. These lanes serve four
schools directly, benefitting the entire schoo! district community, and provide a crucial link to
downtown San Mateo and public transportation.

WHEREAS, the strategic location of these bike lanes makes them an important component of the
city's bicycle network. This network enables regional connectivity to safe bicycle overpasses over
Highway 101, connects the east and west sides of San Mateo, and provides bike routes to Foster
City and Burlingame. It plays a vital role in ensuring the safety and mobility of cyclists throughout
the region.

WHEREAS, we express our concerns regarding pedestrian safety along Humboldt Street and in the
North Central neighborhood. We firmly believe in slowing down vehicle traffic without compromising
existing bicycle infrastructure.

WHEREAS, Safe Routes to Schools offers students the opportunity to commute to school safely,
minimizing reliance on cars and reducing overall vehicle congestion. We believe that the City of San
Mateo possesses an array of effective tools that can be implemented to decrease vehicle speeds
and enhance the safety of our entire community.

WHEREAS, we strongly recommend that the City of San Mateo take immediate action to preserve
the safe infrastructure of the Humboldt Street bike lanes, which were diligently installed in 2022.
The recent City of San Mateo data reveals that these lanes are a crucial transportation route for
over 10,000 monthly bicycle trips.

WHEREAS, efforts to remove the Humboldt Street bike lanes and impose a shared space with
vehicle traffic would be detrimental to the objectives of Safe Routes to School and pose a significant
threat to the overall safety and well-being of all individuals utilizing these routes.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, we urge the San Mateo City Council to maintain the
integrity of the Humboldt Street bike lanes for the benefit of our community. Your attention to this
matter and subsequent support in preserving these vital transportation routes will undoubtedly
enhance safety and accessibility for all residents.

ADOPTED, SIGNED, AND APPROVED this 23rd day of January 2025.

367 of 448


--- page 368 ---
LaTisa Brooks
President of the Governing Board
San Mateo-Foster City School District

I, “Diego Oelne Secretary of the Governing Board of the San

Mateo-Foster City School District, do hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was adopted by
the Governing Board of said District at a meeting of said Board held on the 23rd day of January
2025 and that it was so adopted by the following vote:

AYES: ra

NOES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

Diego R. Ochoa
Secretary of the Governing Board
San Mateo-Foster City School District

368 of 448


--- page 369 ---
Outlook

Bike Lanes at San Mateo High

From Jayden Wan <>

Date Mon 2/3/2025 8:01 AM
To = Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil @cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom and SM City Council,

I'm Jayden, a high school student living in San Mateo County, and | do not support the removal of the
bike lanes around San Mateo High, College Park/Fiesta Gardens Elementary, and San Mateo Adult
Schools - some of the most dangerous streets in the City. We must promote safe streets for kids who
bike to school.

The bike lanes offer several benefits to residents of North Central and others who attend school,
recreate, or commute in the area.

Investing in safer streets benefits everyone by saving lives, promoting pedestrian and cyclist safety,
and fostering independence in children. Additionally, it lowers taxpayer costs by reducing road
maintenance and public health expenses while ensuring affordable, safe mobility for those without
cars.

We ask that our scarce taxpayer dollars and staff time instead be spent looking forward, not backward.
These lanes are important for students who rely on these bike lanes to travel to school and have no
alternative methods of getting to campus.

Thank you for prioritizing the safety of our children and families, keeping the San Mateo High bike
lanes, and accelerating other safety projects in San Mateo.

Thank you,
Jayden Wan

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane26 4/1
369 of 448


--- page 370 ---
Outlook

Council Meeting 2/3/25 Item #10 North Central Bike Lanes

From Michae! <_jaaas >
Date Sun 2/2/2025 1:20 PM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org>; Alex Khojikian <akhojikian@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Mayor Newsome and Council Members - I'm writing to encourage you to remove the North
Central bike lanes, based upon the extremely low usage relative to the high burden placed on the
residents of North Central who need parking for vehicles they need to support their livelihoods.

| live in Central, and am an avid biker myself, so | generally support bike lanes and desire strong and
safe pedestrian and bike infrastructure. So from a bias perspective, this is a little contradictory for me.
The lanes have been in place for about 2 years, and | drive Humboldt constantly since my son goes to
school at BHS and plays soccer in Burlingame. It's not unusual for me to drive this route back and forth
3-4 times a day sometimes. One thing | notice consistently is there are very often ZERO bikes in those
lanes along the entire route going either direction. When | heard this was coming up i actually
grabbed videos going both ways during peak hours when | drove the route, and I've shared them
below. | didn't cherry pick i just grabbed video for each time | did the drive for a few days last week
(the 27th and 30th - ignore my audio where | accidentally say "Thursday Jan 31st - it's Thursday the
30th). | would have grabbed video Friday the 31st but it was raining. For all that video there were a
grand total of TWO bikes seen. That's both directions for the entirety of the run between 3rd and
Peninsula.

The city data collected and show in the packet is highly specious. The study was conducted over ONE
DAY, over only 4 hours, and the 212 trips include 33 people simply crossing Humboldt east-west, so
you have to net those out. Even the remaining 179 is questionable since it appears that with the 8
cameras placed, a trip may have been counted up to 8x for just continuing in the same direction down
Humboldt. That should clearly only count as one trip. We deserve to see the video and data collected,
as i think if you divide the 179 by 8 (or even 5 or 6 if they didn't do the whole run), you'll get more like
20-30, which based upon my observations over years, is much closer - though still high | believe - to
an accurate number. That is an incredibly low number given the impact on North Central residents.

This is also not a “build it and they will come" scenario. The lanes have been there for a few years -
people would have adopted it by now, and they simply aren't.

Which brings us to the proponents of these lanes. As usual we have well-funded special interests
willing to silence opposition, fabricate data and lie to get their agenda passed. Silicon Valley Bike
Coalition has over $2m in funding that they use to promote their agenda. The agenda may be by and
large admirable, but their tactics should raise eyebrows. On Nextdoor we see advocates silencing
opposing voices - blocking, reporting, and harrassing. One of the leads is a planning commissioner
who routinely reports and gets people suspended from Nextdoor for simply voicing opposition or
raising valid criticisms (no one working for the city in any capacity should be able to act as a
moderator on any social platform - this policy needs to be enacted or strengthened by the city). If

about blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane27 1/2
370 of 448


--- page 371 ---
these activists really cared about our community, they would engage in a good faith conversation and
seek compromise, but they don't. One woman even claimed in her posts that there are "10,000 rides
per month on Humboldt, per the city's data” - which we know even if we accepted the questionable
data captured in the study, is inaccurate by orders of magnitude. They've also circulated a petition,
which | would urge this council to exclude entirely from their decision making process, as again it's by
and large outsiders signing on - definitely not the impacted residents of North Central.

This decision should be weighed almost entirely on the needs and suffering being endured by the
residents of North Central. Many of these residents are poor and disadvantaged, and more are elderly
and/or disabled. They do not have the luxury that many of the privileged bike advocates have to write
letters, come to meetings etc - they are working multiple, manual jobs and are lucky to sleep and eat
much less defend themselves from well-heeled special interests.

Regarding funding - the money used for the lanes came from a HUD grant - the city didn't spend it's
own money here for the most part. Unfortunate, but that's not a reason to keep the lanes. The council
in it's 3/20/23 meeting admitted that the grant and its expiration was in fact the reason the lanes’
approval was rushed, and they admitted mistakes had been made as a result. It falls to this council to
fix those mistakes.

The decision seems fairly simple - the benefit of the lanes in terms of usage is grossly outweighed by
the burden placed on the residents of North Central through the loss of parking. If and until there is a
strong alternative that ameliorates this problem, the lanes should be removed.

My captured videos can be found here and are labeled by date time and direction:
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/100YmOoxt 1pmWCOtWJfBPfTkz bCbpBdkv?usp=sharing

Thanks for listening - Michael Weinhauer, Central Neighborhood

about blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane27 2/2
371 of 448


--- page 372 ---
Outlook

North Central Bike Lanes

From Robert Whitehir a
Date Sat 2/1/2025 10:04 AM

To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org >

Dear Mayor Newsom and City Council

On the agenda Monday night is a request for Council direction to staff regarding the North Central
Bike Lanes Project.

As
part of the ongoing exploration and planning process, | encourage the City to:

41.

Leam how to add more bike lanes and paths to many other parts of the City, in accordance with the
City's Bicycle Master Plan.

2.

investigate a robust menu across the City, for parking lot possibilities and enforcement of existing
laws and parking regulations.

3. Keep the
bike lanes in North Central.
Best wishes
Robert Whitehair (he, him)
Acknowledgement: We reside on the unceded lands of our indigenous ancestors, while benefiting

from racial privilege. We begin making reparations by accepting only a kinship view of our place on
the planet: All life is interconnected, interdependent, and interrelated.

aboutblank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane28 1/1
372 of 448


--- page 373 ---
Outlook

Bike Lanes Keep As Is

From Teri Whitehair <>

Date Sun 2/2/2025 10:18 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil @cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear City Council:
| am writing to you to urge you to keep the bike lanes in San Mateo as they are now.
Thank you.

Sent from Gmail Mobile

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane29 1/1
373 of 448


--- page 374 ---
Outlook

Public Comment for 2/3 City Council Meeting - Agenda Item #10

From Evan Shimizu hii: >
Date Fri 1/31/2025 4:44 PM

To Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>

Hello San Mateo City Council,

| am a resident of San Mateo living at the intersection of Bayswater and N Humboldt St, right across from the
bike lanes that are being discussed. I've been here for just about four years, and | have not owned a car since
I've been here. This means that biking, walking, and public transportation are my primary methods of moving
around the city and county.

One of my largest concerns with biking in San Mateo is having to deal with vehicular traffic, which is often
going at or above the speed limit. For that reason, | tend to bike on side streets and on streets with dedicated
bike lanes or boulevards. | greatly appreciate the bike lanes placed on Humboldt St and Poplar Ave. | wish
more streets in the city had dedicated bike lanes, and that the bike lane on Humboldt extended past
Peninsula to where | live.

| understand and sympathize with the parking issues this bike lane has caused, however | also believe that
without the implementation of good bike infrastructure, we will be unable to reduce the number of cars on our
city streets (which to be clear, would be a good thing). If anything, | would advocate for the expansion of bike
lanes in North Central. | would also love to see the city actively implement incentives both for biking and
reducing the number of cars per household. Have a city grant process for getting ebikes, have an incentive
(tax or otherwise) to own fewer cars, or something else that retains this bike lane.

We need to make it as easy to bike in San Mateo as it is to drive in, and removing bike lanes is not the way to
do that.

Thank you,
——Evan Shimizu

about:blank?windowld=S econdaryReadingPane31 1/1
374 of 448


--- page 375 ---
375 of 448

--- page 376 ---
376 of 448

--- page 377 ---
377 of 448

--- page 378 ---
From: Irena Mavridis <n >

Sent: Monday, January 27, 2025 1:11 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Share the Road

Honorable Mayor and Council,
Please help us “Share the Road!”

Experts agree that cyclists gain a false sense of safety when they ride in
a bike facility separated from traffic. City leaders often respond to the
tragedy and public outcry from bicycle accidents and fatalities by doing
what they think will help- installing more bike lanes.

However, research has proven that separated bike lanes actually cause
more crashes. A 2019 literature review analysis of bike lane crashes
concluded that “separated bike lanes raise the number of crashes by 117
percent compared with shared roadway. Bike tracks separated from cars
by a median or parking lane further increased crashes 400 percent.”
Safety experts agree: the safest place for a bike is in the middle of a car
lane, with bike lights and a helmet lamp for the rider, cycling behind
vehicles rather than beside them.

Jan Heine, editor-in-chief of Bicycle Quarterly, writes “Any barrier that
separates the cyclist visually from other traffic effectively hides the
cyclist. This is counterproductive to safety. Moving cyclists out of the
roadway altogether, on separate bike paths, is even more dangerous,
because drivers don’t look for cyclists off to the side.” He continued, “I

378 of 448


--- page 379 ---
379 of 448

--- page 380 ---
380 of 448

--- page 381 ---
381 of 448

--- page 382 ---
382 of 448

--- page 383 ---
383 of 448

--- page 384 ---
384 of 448

--- page 385 ---
385 of 448

--- page 386 ---
386 of 448

--- page 387 ---
387 of 448

--- page 388 ---
03/02/2025, 16:41 Public Comment about Humboldt Bike Lanes - Chantal Eaton - Outlook

lo My Outlook

Public Comment about Humboldt Bike Lanes

From Gerd S from RW <i

Date Fri 1/31/2025 2:15 PM

To = Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>;
Senator.Becker@senate.ca.gov <Senator.Becker@senate.ca.gov>; PR Commission Mailbox
<PRCommissionMailbox@CityofSanMateoOrg.onmicrosoft.com>; Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
<SandiCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>;
boardfeedback@smcgov.org <boardfeedback@smcgov.org>

N 3 attachments (11 MB)

20240408_Where did Vera Bike Blvd go - RWCPulse.pdf; 20250126_| have a Dream ... and San Mateo is creating a nightmare -
RWCPulse.pdf; 20250128_Why US Fire Chiefs say NO to Bicycle Boulevards - RWCPulse.pdf;

To clerk and staff: Please also add this email and attached PDFs into public comment of the next
possible council meeting. No need for reading aloud, if San Mateo is doing such, just add it to public
record please.

To the City Council of San Mateo,

many opponents of the bike lanes are making one big mistake. They don’t argue for more "parking",
they argue against bike lanes.

So it's not the arguments residents in a liveable community would make, this is the argument the car
companies have been making for the last 100 years: "We don't want to share space".

The Home/Car Owner Association (HCOA) also seems unwilling to compromise. The only thing
acceptable is to go back in time and give every homeowner that one spot in front of their house back.
Nothing else is acceptable.

But going back in time isn't helpful either. Before the project was implemented many residents
shouted: We do NOT have enough parking in this neighborhood.

So even taking down the lanes now and going 2 years back in time, the city would just arrive at the
same outcome: We do NOT have enough parking in this neighborhood.

So two years of wasting time and money would essentially lead to: No progress has been made. That
would be an embarrassment to this city council and all San Mateo Democrats.

Bike Lanes MUST stay

The council really has no real leeway here. North Central has been declared a County Equity Focus
Area. The city itself called it Equity Priority Area. MTC calls it Community of Concern.

The explanation behind these names is simple: if children and families in affluent

neighborhoods in Berkeley, Menlo Park, Alameda, Emeryville, etc deserve real bike lanes, then
this must be even more true in low-income, equity focus areas like North Central. That is called
Transportation Equity and Diane Papan, Rich Hedges and various other council members signed off
and ratified it for the foreseeable future.

If you want to change that, this city council needs to create and ratify new plans or portray the image
of people that can't read and follow a few simple plans.

Currently these bike lanes fulfill very public promises made in all these plans:

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane4 1/4
388 of 448


--- page 389 ---
389 of 448

--- page 390 ---
390 of 448

--- page 391 ---
391 of 448

--- page 392 ---
1/24/25, 2:53 PM Where did Vera Bike Blvd go? - Redwood City Pulse

PEEKING AT PLANS

Where did Vera Bike Blvd go?

... or how the “Mother of all Bicycle Boulevards” got US into this mess

s= by Gerd Stieler
April 29, 2024 10:43 am

(>) Listen to this article now 1.0x

00:00 13:16

Pe

iy
ee

Vera Bicycle Boulevards right at the Red Morton Veterans Memorial Building / Senior Center (April 2023). (Courtesy: G. Stieler)

“What is the only difference between a Bike Boulevard and a regular street? Hopefully there are fewer cars to honk at you.” [Zarathustra]

What happened to RWC’s first Bike Blvd?

While investigating the plans of this project from 2010, this Signature Project of our Transportation Advisory Committee (TAC), the Original Slow Street, the
core achievement of RWCMoves, WalkBikeThrive and Vision Zero, the Community Benefit of both the Elco Yard and Sequoia TOD project, the First Safe-
BikeRoute-To-School ever, I noticed this award-winning project does not even exist.

My sources tell me it was closed off a few months (or years?) back to build the Red Morton Senior Center, and apparently, nobody noticed. There was no huge
public outcry, nobody spoke at the city council, no discussion on social media, and no signs pointing to “Road Work” or “Detour.” The project simply just
vanished. So I’m very sorry, but there is no Vera Bicycle Boulevard to talk about now.

“Berkeley s bike boulevards are fictions.” [BerkeleySide 2019]

https:/Awww.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2024/04/29/where-did-vera-bike-blvd-go/ 1/5
392 of 448


--- page 393 ---
393 of 448

--- page 394 ---
394 of 448

--- page 395 ---
1/24/25, 2:53 PM Where did Vera Bike Blvd go? - Redwood City Pulse

Ellen Fletcher Bryant Street Bike Blvd - First bike blvd in the US

But many US. cities still liked to statistically fill out their bike plans and claim success—just as Palo Alto and its “Vehicular Cyclists” did. So did many
consulting companies or organizations that should have known better. We are talking Berkeley, Vancouver, Seattle, NACTO, Toole Design, Fehr and Peers,
loby.org, University of North Carolina, etc.

Other cities — like Philadelphia or Tucson — weren’t so enamored by the name ...

2

“Bike boulevard’ sounds like a major street to me. And just having ‘bike’ as the first word is a nonstarter in Philadelphia.’

“Tf'a city hasnt yet ventured into the ‘bicycle boulevard’ realm, I’d recommend against that terminology.”
... but they still liked the concept.

The Emperor has no Clothes

Portland became a world-renowned bicycle city once it started installing bike lanes. It lost that status when traffic planners and bicycle advocates stopped caring
and followed Palo Alto’s lackadaisical example. Instead of “Bicycle Boulevard,” they liked “Neighborhood Greenways,” which sounds like Class 1 Bikeways
leading through a nice park or along some river, but of course, that was just more advertising.

Eventually, it suppressed ridership, and Portland was thrown out of the Copenhagenize Index. With Bike Lanes, Portland went from 1% to 6%; with
“Neighborhood Greenways,” it fell back to more like 3%.

“For one, we're concerned that Portland residents are so good at getting around by bike that they’ve forgotten what it’s like for newbies. We're not doing the
work to get new people on bikes. In fact, at council meetings we have actually heard experienced riders arguing against the addition of protected bike lanes.
They ve been cycling on streets for a long time and they figure that because they’re okay with it, everyone should be okay with it.” [remorseful Portland Bicycle
Advocate]

Despite its failure in Portland, other cities and organizations latched onto that name, like BikeMore, Alta Planning, PBIC, East Bay Bikes, etc.

https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2024/04/29/where-did-vera-bike-blvd-go/ 4/5
395 of 448


--- page 396 ---
1/24/25, 2:53 PM Where did Vera Bike Blvd go? - Redwood City Pulse

Some cities didn’t like the words “bicycle boulevard” or “neighborhood greenway,” and for various reasons, they invented more names for the ‘Un-inventioning
of Bike Lanes’:

Calm Street, Neighborway, Neighborhood Boulevard, Neighbor Way, Greenways, Local Street Bikeway, Quietway.

By now, we can be pretty sure different cities have different trademarks on these Class 3 Bikeway names ... and T-Shirts. And once all involved parties pretend to
buy into the scam, your scam can go bigger:

“Tt makes sense. [After we’ve communicated that it’s fundamentally part of a bike network] we can layer on walking, we can layer on public space.”

“Local street bikeway: It doesnt get any more intuitive than that. Just simple and dry. ... You’re going to know what that is just by hearing that.”

All these streets are still car-centric, with little or no features that invite people to switch to bicycles. It’s all about filling up “Bike Plans” and “Climate Action
Plans” to look like a green or healthy city without becoming one. But adding insult to injury, the traffic planners have always been using Active Transportation
grants and funds to pay for these car-centric projects, basically defrauding those taxpayers who approved the funding in the first place.

Slow Streets

Case in point: Slow Streets. During the pandemic, when it became very clear that resilient cities must have bike lanes, Oakland and Redwood City gave us the
“Slow Streets” and more “Bicycle Boulevards”. And as usual in Redwood City, cars are encouraged to drive 30 mph and more on both of them and even faster
around schools.

“Sharing the Road” is a dangerous policy and increases the risk for the most fragile, which are people walking and cycling, especially children and seniors.
People on bicycles and especially slow-riding children are used as traffic calming devices similar to Speed Humps or Chicanes. But when kids actually do test that
theory and try to share the road — all social media hell breaks loose. Let’s face it, Americans are just not good at “sharing” or “caring”.

“So why are speed humps on a ‘bike boulevard’? Because the ‘bike boulevard’ is about automobile traffic.” (Urban Milwaukee 2017]

It’s been over 100 years since the invention of bike lanes, it’s time to bury the philosophy of “Vehicular Cycling” or “Driving your Bike”.

More Information:

¢ Emeryville’s Bicycle Boulevard Scam
¢ Berkeley’s Bike Boulevard Fiction

¢ Milwaukee thinks Bike Boulevards are a bad idea

¢ Bike Boulevards don’t even work in Palo Alto

¢ ScienceDirect about Safety and Sharrows

Editor’s Note: The views and opinions expressed in all blog posts are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of the Redwood City Pulse or its

staff.

© 2025 Embarcadero Media

https:/Awww.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2024/04/29/where-did-vera-bike-blvd-go/ 5/5
396 of 448


--- page 397 ---
1/26/25, 9:19 AM Blog: | have a Dream ... and San Mateo is creating a nightmare - Redwood City Pulse

PEEKING AT PLANS

Blog: | have a Dream ... and San Mateo is creating a nightmare

Sadly my Dream isnt shared by the County of San Mateo or the San Mateo City Council.

1 by Gerd Stieler
January 21, 2025 11:06 am Updated January 24, 2025 11:09 am

Lorraine Motel in Memphis. Courtesy: Gerd Stieler Credit: Gerd Stieler

It’s Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. week, a great time to talk about education and Safe-Routes-To-School. Last week, we discussed that “School Choice” has nothing to do with educational opportunity but was born out of all kinds of ulterior
motives. This week, we do a reality check on our county’s Democrats. Have they been using “Equity” mostly just in pre-election slogans, or can they actually follow through after election season is over?

We will be talking about “Safe Routes To School” and “Slow Streets,” but most of all, we will be talking about the equity problem of “Bicycle Boulevards.”
“The time is always right to do what is right.” [MLK]

Time to get your program and your popcorn; this is a Drama in Four Acts.

Act 1: C/CAG is sharing the Dream

| “The function of education is to teach one to think intensively and to think critically. Intelligence plus character — that is the goal of true education.” [MLK]

In 2023, San Mateo County politicians were introduced to The Dream. They were taught how their old ways were rotten and that they had to change. Apparently, the politicians that were summoned to take the equity training were Diane Papan,
Gina Papan, David Canepa, Lisa Gauthier, Davina Hurt, Karen Cunningham, John Goodwin, Stacy Jimenez, Christine Krolik, Alicia Aguirre, Michael Salazar, Adam Rak, Rich Hedges, Warren Slocum, Mark Nagales, Rico E. Medina, and a
few more. It is unclear how San Mateo’s City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) decided that these people need the training. However, in the end, those students were explicitly mentioned in the disclaimer. We can also assume the
framework has been read and ratified by all members of C/CAG, all city managers, all city council members and all San Mateo Democrats until an opposing paper with opposing views is ratified next time. Without this process, the Equity

Framework wouldn’t be worth the paper it wasn’t printed on.
If any of the old and newly elected San Mateo County Democrats want to speak out against Equity ... speak now or forever hold your peace.
Question: Can you explain the plans behind Transportation Equity again?

That is what this blog is for. So, after years and years of shirking the topic, the County finally took on the challenge of Equity and deserves our praise. Let us all look at the history of systemic racism in this county and how our county leaders
are reckoning with said sad history.

In San Mateo County and across the nation, people of color and other underserved and underrepresented populations have and continue to face persistently unequal economic, health, and quality of life outcomes. Public and private
institutions have historically contributed to these inequities through laws, policies, investment decisions, and other actions. C/CAG is taking steps to address Equity issues in San Mateo County. [C/CAG]

Can I get a Hallelujah for C/CAG, “historical inequities,” and “taking steps”?

“Equity entails removing systemic barriers and providing customized forms and levels of engagement and support for underserved and impacted communities to remedy past harms and underinvestment.” [C/CAG]
Can I get a Hallelujah for C/CAG and “systemic barriers”?

“C/CAG Ss project team conducted Equity Focus Area (EFA) mapping and data analysis based on C/CAG program area themes, to identify social, economic, environmental, health, and quality of life inequities in the county” [C/CAG]
Can I get a Hallelujah for “Equity Focus Areas”?

“My community has been underserved and neglected. We dont have any public parks. We don't have bike lanes. The lighting is scarce, and some streets are extremely dark at night. Sidewalks are non-existent in some streets. The community
is dissected by two train tracks, therefore divided by those and other physical divisions.” [EFA Leader]

Can I get an extra loud Hallelujah for “bike lanes in underserved and neglected communities”?

Now we are all finally on the same page about the fact that Equity requires bike lanes in Equity Focus Areas. Amen. It looks like the County of San Mateo is finally getting it together and is really serious about equity — starting now!
... Wait, wait. Starting now!

https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/01/21/blog-i-have-a-dream-and-san-mateo-is-creating-a-nightmare/ /4

1
397 of 448


--- page 398 ---
398 of 448

--- page 399 ---
1/26/25, 9:19 AM Blog: | have a Dream ... and San Mateo is creating a nightmare - Redwood City Pulse

Safety of Bike Facilities

>» o>

Walk Bike Cupertino agrees: Class III lanes (Bike Boulevards) offer no protection at all and Class IV lanes and Class | trails offer the most.

Any responsible city manager would aim toward the right side of this picture. That is what America’s Bicycle Capital has been doing for 50 years. That is what Europeans and their Vision Zero plans are suggesting as well. Now, when a city
manager moves to the lefi side of this picture — there is a name for that. Whenever children in a low-income neighborhood are concerned, going left is what America calls Systemic Racism in Urban Planning. We have seen this kind of behavior
in Redwood City on Vera Avenue Bike Boulevard and Roosevelt Avenue Bike Route. In both cases old plans showed bike lanes and cycle tracks, but in the end all the kids got were “sharrows” aka “sharing the road” aka “non-infrastructure”
aka “not safe” aka “systemic racism”.

The only viable “Bicycle Boulevard” in all of America...
.. is currently in Berkeley. Not on Bryant Street in Palo Alto, Morro Street in San Luis Obispo, Silver Avenue in Albuquerque, or Berkeley.

Google Maps shows the intersection of two Berkeley Bike Boulevards. Both have bike lanes, both streets have only one parking lane, and there is plenty of high-density housing in this area, too. High-density housing requires high-density
transportation options like these bike lanes.

source: Google Maps (https://maps.app.g00.gl/KMXersWEyXCGeMuF9)

After years and years of experimentation, Berkeley finally got smart and found the only solution to making their “Bike Boulevards” viable. At the intersection of Milvia Street and Channing Way, we see two Berkeley Bicycle Boulevards, and
both have nice green bike lanes now. We can see a mix of classes II, IIb, and IV, but no class III anymore. Berkeley recognized that they had to move more to the right side of the Cupertino chart to be safer.

Let’s repeat that: only real bike lanes work!
Tf Berkeley is saying that affluent school children and college students deserve bike lanes to be safer, then the County Board of Supervisors (BOS) should make that a county-wide rule.
| “T have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: ‘We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.” [MLK]

Would the Good Reverend be happy with San Mateo?

Q: Would the Good Reverend be happy with C/CAG?
A: He would agree that Equity Frameworks mean nothing if they are not lived and enforced.

Q: Would the Good Reverend be happy with the County Board of Supervisors (BOS)?
A: He would agree that if BOS can attack a supposedly independent Sheriff, why not go after systemic racism committed by city managers?

Q: Would the Good Reverend be happy with the City of San Mateo?
A: This depends on Vision Zero city sides with the children, their bike lanes, the rich Home/Car Owner Association (HCOA), and their private car storage.

... To Be Continued
This is a watershed moment for San Mateo Democrats. Let’s take a breather and let’s see how this is developing in February.
Actors to watch on the city council of San Mateo:

« Mayor Rob Newsom Jr.

¢ Deputy Mayor Adam Loraine

¢ Lisa Diaz Nash

* Nicole Fernandez (newly elected)

* Danielle Cwirko-Godycki (newly elected)

https:/Awww.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/01/21/blog-i-have-a-dream-and-san-mateo-is-creating-a-nightmare/ 3/4

399 of 448


--- page 400 ---
1/26/25, 9:19 AM Blog: | have a Dream ... and San Mateo is creating a nightmare - Redwood City Pulse

Actors to watch on the Board of Supervisors:

* David Canepa (Board President)

* Noelia Corzo (Vice President)

¢ Ray Mueller (from Menlo Park — a rich community where leaders did provide bike lanes for children from affluent families)

¢ Lisa Gauthier (newly elected from East Palo Alto — an EFA where leaders did not provide bike lanes for children from low-income families)

¢ Jackie Speier (newly elected)

“In order to improve on Equity, you actually have to improve on Equity”
[Zarathustra]

More Information

¢ C/CAG’s Equity Action Plan

¢ C/CAG’s Equity Framework Report and Training
¢ C/CAG’s reverse equity story about HOT Lanes

¢ Blog: Squatters, Rankers, and Dead Parkers

¢ Blog: RIP or RSVP to Parking

¢ Some history of “Bicycle Boulevards”

Editor’s Note: The views and opinions expressed in all blog posts are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of the Redwood City Pulse or its staff.

© 2025 Embarcadero Media

https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/01/21/blog-i-have-a-dream-and-san-mateo-is-creating-a-nightmare/ /4

4
400 of 448


--- page 401 ---
1/29/25, 6:49 PM Blog: Why US Fire Chiefs say NO to Bicycle Boulevards - Redwood City Pulse

PEEKING AT PLANS

Blog: Why US Fire Chiefs say NO to Bicycle Boulevards

Ever heard of Move Over Laws, “Blockers”, Personal Protection Equipment?

by Gerd Stieler
January 28, 2025 9:02 am

If drivers overlook the big red thing, how is the cyclists supposed to have a chance? Courtesy: Gerd Stieler

If Redwood City’s new fire chief, Baraka Carter, is knowledgeable about data and statistics, he must advise against Redwood City’s “Bicycle Boulevards” and recommend actual bike lanes instead. And so would any fire chief in California,
where “sharing the road” experiments are plentiful.

Can “Sharing the Road” experiments be made safe?

“Bicycle Boulevards” are one big part of the Big Bikeway Bluff. That is what city managers do when they update the marketing material about “Transportation, Children, and Youth” but accidentally forget to do the real thing. As far as bicycle
con-jobs go, “Bicycle Boulevards” play one league above “Bike Routes”, “Slow Streets”, and “Sharrows”. And mainly because the name has a nicer ring to it. “Boulevard” sounds like a quiet, tree-lined street without air pollution. Portland calls
the same thing “Neighborhood Greenway” to play with the tree theme as well. I have to admit, it is a very clever and sophisticated con, and it runs very deep. It is running for over 40 years now and counting.

But in the end, all these different names stand for the exact same result: no bike lanes for children, no space for older citizens, and no safety for people with disabilities. Instead, they are just mixed in with 4,000 Ibs. vehicles on 30 mph, car-
lined streets. So the big question still remains: could “sharing the road” ever be made safe?

That is a clear “No” from Vision Zero, which requests separating speed and power. That is a clear “No” from “Transportation Equity,” which requests more bike lanes coming to low-income neighborhoods. That is a clear “No” from any
organization that has ever asked for bike lanes. In fact, no organization ever asks for more “Bike Routes” — everyone wants real separation and actual bike lanes.

And yet it’s US bicycle advocacy groups — like The League of American Bicyclists (LAB) — that will tell people on bicycles that they are safe as long as they follow these rules:

¢ Ride like a vehicle
* “Take The Lane”
¢ Dress like a Clown

¢ Always wear a bicycle helmet

Statistically, this kind of advice is killing several hundred Americans each year. And since any real bicycle advocacy group will recognize this as bad advice, we can say something seems very off with LAB. Organizations like these have money,
people and resources to develop better policies. In fact, much better information is available for free through many research projects done by different universities.
... or we could just ask any knowledgeable Fire Chief.

US Fire Departments teach us “Take The Lane!” is really bad advice
| “Over a five-year period, nine Irving [fire] apparatus were struck while blocking at roadway incidents. Two of those [firetruck] vehicles, including Ladder 52, were totaled.” [2019 Irving]

In case of emergencies, fire departments would use their fire trucks as a way to block off the street. Basically, the fire trucks are “Taking the Lane” to secure the firefighters and others. In the transportation world there is nothing bigger, brighter,
and more visible than a bright yellow or red fire truck with its flashing lights on. And yet, in 2019, an estimated 2,500 vehicles crashed into these “blockers” that are “taking the lane” to protect fire crews. That is 6.8 crashes daily or 16% of all
fire truck collisions. Tesla’s vehicles seem to have an especially bad relationship with fire engines. They constantly run into them. Who would want children riding in front of such technology?

“Emergency responders are trained to be extremely careful and vigilant in transport and when responding to roadside incidents... Despite these precautions, however, the rate of these collisions in recent decades has remained relatively
unchanged, with fatal consequences.“

So if “Taking the Lane” and “Sharing The Road” are demolishing 2,500 parked fire trucks and countless more emergency vehicles, why would any city manager in San Mateo County assume this to be safe for children? Why would any
respectable bicycle coalition recommend “sharing the road” experiments?

How about “Wear Clown Gear” and Helmets

Apparently, in 2022, vehicles struck and killed ca. 50 first responders. These are often large individuals dressed in bright gear with reflective material all around. They have better helmets than most children on bicycles would have. And yet,
they have to be afraid of being overlooked, injured, or even killed by speeding, distracted drivers. They also know their pedestrian helmets make little difference when hit by a car.

We already talked about the statistics behind bike helmets and also the real intent of pushing for bike helmets. Just like bike helmets, firefighters use hard hats, not real ones. Hard hats protect you from falling debris or hitting your head at low-
hanging objects. They offer, however, no protection against cars or trucks. It is ridiculous to argue that a 1-inch foam-based crumble zone protects firefighters or children from a 4,000 Ibs. vehicle going 30 mph. No crash test dummy has ever
survived such an impact. No agency is sacrificing expensive crash test dummies for tests where the outcome is predetermined. These companies value their crash test dummies more than cities value their children in San Mateo County.

https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/01/28/bicycle-boulevards/ /4

1
401 of 448


--- page 402 ---
1/29/25, 6:49 PM Blog: Why US Fire Chiefs say NO to Bicycle Boulevards - Redwood City Pulse

Move Over Laws

100% of states have Move Over Laws now. However, 33% of US drivers have no clue what that is.

RA

Apparently drivers crash into 2,500 of these every single year. Courtesy: Gerd Stieler

A few statistics first:

¢ Over 12,000 roadway responses occur every day in the United States.

¢ Over 12,000 times per day, US emergency responders are under the threat of drivers hitting, clipping, or colliding with them as they drive by.

¢ The cost of all emergency vehicle crashes (including fire, police, and ambulance) in the U.S. is estimated at $35 billion annually.

¢ 2020: ca 15,675 fire department vehicles were involved in traffic accidents, resulting in 550 firefighter injuries and seven firefighter fatalities.

¢ Yearly averages of emergency responders struck and killed on the side of the road: around 10 are in law enforcement, 4 in fire and rescue, and 40-50 are tow truck operators.
* 10% of all drivers polled admitted they have come very close to clipping a first responder or their equipment.

* “19% of drivers admit their own inattentive driving has probably put first responders at unnecessary risk.”

* “89% of drivers say they believe distracted motorists are a major source of risk to first responders.”

“Sadly, 49% of survey respondents said possibly being struck by a vehicle is ‘just part of the risk’ of being a first responder.” [Ouch!]

You might wonder: Is being hit by a car regarded also ‘just part of the risk’ of riding a bicycle in a “shared road environment.”
Answer: You bet it is. In fact, if you sue the city, the city attorney will make the exact same argument.

In a now famous case reported by Embarcadero Media — former 49er and Raider coach Greg Knapp was killed while riding his bike in San Ramon. The family is suing the city. This is what their defense attorneys were saying: “Gregory
Knapp acted with knowledge of all the facts and circumstances surrounding his injuries and assumed the risk of the matters causing the injury.“

No city, no city council member, no city manager, and no traffic engineer will take responsibility for anything that happens due to subpar infrastructure. They will tell you it’s safe. But it’s not them taking the risk, and it’s not them taking
responsibility either. It’s basically the government’s version of “The Coward’s Way Out” — which is why the family will win this case.

And now back to our regular scheduled programming ...

Emergency responders have discovered that they are not even safe on a separate lane like a shoulder. Along many local streets and highways, cars are driven too fast and too distracted. No personal protection equipment (PPE) in the world
protects anyone from a car driving 25 mph or faster. And on highways — where distracted and speeding drivers go >65 mph — more separation is required. These drivers even overlock flashing police cars, yellow tow trucks or fire engines. That
is why all 50 US states now have Move Over Laws, which “requires motorists to change lanes and/or slow down when approaching an authorized emergency vehicle that is parked or otherwise stopped on a roadway.”

Just as (real) bicycle advocates have asked for protected and separated bike lanes, emergency responders have asked to implement Move Over Laws. In their case, lawmakers complied, while similar laws for people on bicycles are usually
struck down — especially in “virtue signaling,” “green” California.

In the Case US Fire Chiefs vs. The League of American Bicyclists (LAB)

Regarding advice to “Ride like a vehicle,” the fire chief witness says, “NO.”
Emergency Responders are driving actual vehicles and have a preference in terms of the right of way. They still get in thousands of collisions, causing billions of dollars in yearly damages.

Regarding advice to “Take The Lane” the fire chief witness says “NO”.
If 2,500 drivers can’t see huge fire engines parked as “Blockers,” how can anyone make the case that a small child on a bicycle is safe to do the same?

Regarding advice to “Dress like a Clown,” the fire chief witness says, “NO.”
Drivers have something called “tunnel vision” or “selective attention”; they only see what they want to see. The opposing force is called ‘object fixation, which is when a driver crashes into what they are looking at. ‘Object fixation’ is why 50
states have Move-Over-Laws now to create separation. So “dressing like a clown” could make people more visible, but still puts them in more danger due to ‘object fixation’. People on bicycles need more separation as well.

Regarding advice on “Bicycle Helmets,” the fire chief witness says, “NO.”
Underwhelming Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) like hard hats have absolutely no chance against 4,000 lbs. vehicles. Only “Transportation Clowns” think otherwise.

Conclusion

We have seen that “taking the lane” is highly dangerous to first responders. It is proven that Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) does nothing to protect against vehicle collisions. There are huge risks for first responders when operating around
traffic. To protect them, they can hide behind million-dollar “blockers.” And 50 US states have laws to help emergency responders with the safety of separation through Move Over Laws. And still, these first responders are taking immense risks
and are in constant danger. People on bicycles should not be expected to endure the same risk and danger.

California lawmakers need to do better and finally outlaw “sharing the road” experiments that even seem too dangerous for our first responders.

https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/01/28/bicycle-boulevards/ /4

2
402 of 448


--- page 403 ---
1/29/25, 6:49 PM Blog: Why US Fire Chiefs say NO to Bicycle Boulevards - Redwood City Pulse
Why fire chiefs always embrace bike lanes

Ina future blog, we will be talking about the three worst enemies of every fire chief:

¢ Speeding Cars — those are the ones causing collisions.
* Driving Cars — those are the ones killing first responders.

¢ Parked Cars — those are the ones blocking fire lanes and hydrants.

Bicycles and bike lanes, on the other hand, are helping to reduce many of these risks and problems. That is another reason why any solid fire chief would recommend actual bike lanes.

These bike lanes also protect the first responders from being hit by cars. Courtesy: Gerd Stieler

More Information

¢ Firetruck Collision:

¢ NSC: Drivers even more distracted by Emergency Vehicles
¢ Federal Highway Administration: Move Over Laws

¢ Youtube: Tesla hits Walnut Creek firetruck

¢ Youtube: Driver slams into fire engine

¢ Youtube: Licking Township fire truck crash

¢ Youtube: First Responders Hit

Editor’s Note: The views and opinions expressed in all blog posts are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect those of the Redwood City Pulse or its staff:

https://www.rwcpulse.com/blogs/peeking-at-plans/2025/01/28/bicycle-boulevards/ /4

3
403 of 448


--- page 404 ---
03/02/2025, 16:39 North Central Parking - Chantal Eaton - Outlook

lo My Outlook
North Central Parking

Date Fri 1/31/2025 12:24 PM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

| live in this area and I always see residents looking for parking spots. | very seldom see people on
bicycles. We need our parking back as soon as possible please.
Sandra Farris

about:blank? windowld=SecondaryReadingPane3 1/1
404 of 448


--- page 405 ---
03/02/2025, 16:38 Bring Back Parking to Humboldt Street - Chantal Eaton - Outlook

lo My Outlook
Bring Back Parking to Humboldt Street

Date Fri 1/31/2025 11:50 AM
To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>

Dear Mayor Newsom & Council Members

Of all the neighborhoods in the entire City of San Mateo, our neighborhood, North Central WAS NOT the
neighborhood to remove over 200 parking spaces back in 2022. Parking has been a well known neighborhood issue
for the past couple of decades. If prior staff would have done their due diligence back when they were contemplating
the dedicated bike lanes or listened to North Central residents they would have known the parking reality that exists.

Instead we had people who lived in other neighborhoods and other cities putting in their two cents in favor of a
dedicated bike lane without knowing or even caring about North Central's parking issues. Regardless one way or the
other they were and still are making their demands onto our neighborhood.

The historically redlined and spot zoning that occurred in the 50's, 60's and 70's in North Central now occurred in a
different way with removing the parking for the bike lanes at the expense of our most vulnerable residents. Do we
really need people from Los Altos Hills or Hillsborough having a say on this?

Please consider and make note that bicyclists still have to veer around all the bulb outs on Humboldt St. that were
installed several years ago which puts bicyclists back into the traffic lanes. Also note Humboldt is a truck route street.

Personally myself and most of our residents have nothing against bike lanes or bicyclists. Also note all of us will be
losing more parking with the new law that went into effect on January 1st. where you will not be able to park within 20
feet in all directions of an intersection (good law). Please just make the lives of our families, seniors and disabled
easier. We just desperately need our parking back! | urge all of you to work towards coming up with a more balanced
and common sense solution.

Thank you,

Joanne Bennett

about:blank?windowld=SecondaryReadingPane1 1/1
405 of 448


--- page 406 ---
Sharon Windust

February 3, 2025

Dear San Mateo City Council,

I’m writing to you as resident of North Central San Mateo-San Mateo Heights
neighborhood of 42 years with my concerns about the Humboldt Street bike lanes. The bike
janes in District 1 and District 2 have negative impacts on many residents, as we travel on the
impacted streets daily and since the installation of the bike lanes, I’ve seen only a handful of
cyclists! The planning for these bike lanes was done in a city silo with very little opportunity for
public input. The post cards for the informational! meetings were sent after the first meeting at
the King Center had passed -- This is very reminiscent of the 7-11 store debacle on East Bellevue
Avenue and San Mateo Drive.

Please take into consideration how the actions of few directly impact the many
(citizens). | would be curious to know if any of our city council members live anywhere close to
the adjacent streets impacted by these, so-called wonderful yet rarely used bikes lanes that are
a cause of great inconvenience for the residents. As usual, it seems those in charge are putting
the cart before the horse, which is evident with the filing cabinet-esc housing that is being
approved... We don’t have a lack-of-a bike lane problem; we have an infrastructure probiem.
Plopping bike lanes in the already parking and traffic-impacted streets along with those useless
slurry seal band-aids, plus all of the housing on top of this is causing more congestion, not
lessening it. 1 would love to know who did the initial surveying and how many people were
actually surveyed. | know | didn’t get a survey... ..and | know many others who were aiso not
able to voice their opinion. If you want an accurate sample of the population, you are going to
have to do better ~ Send teams into the neighborhoods and walk them! But more importantly,
actually talk to the people... You are to go to them, not the other way around.

Perhaps accepting Federal money seems to be the only thing you all care about, rather
than being more financially responsible with OUR money. We, the people expect better... and
remember: Actions speak louder than words... Talk is cheap. Based on what | see and what
many others see... 1 see nothing but talk.

Sincerely,
Sharon Windust

406 of 448


--- page 407 ---
407 of 448

--- page 408 ---
408 of 448

--- page 409 ---
409 of 448

--- page 410 ---
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO County Government Center

400 County Center, 1st Floor

NOELIA CORZO Redwood City, GA $4068
SUPERVISOR, SECOND DISTRICT eee eile

January 16, 2025
Dear Honorable Mayor and City Councilmembers,

| am writing regarding the upcoming discussion by San Mateo City Council about the Humboldt Street
bike lanes. My own experience with the Humboldt Street bike lanes has been informed by my
experience living and growing up in North Ceniral and feeling the impact of city policies on my
neighborhood. Though the City is making real improvements, North Central residents have historically
been excluded in city decision-making. I continue to have significant concerns about how the
Humboldt Street bike lanes were initially implemented, but | believe it would be
counterproductive and costly to use staff resources to remove them now.

North Central faces unique parking challenges compared to the rest of the city due to its high
population density and because the high cost of living forces many families, predominantly residents of
color, to live doubled or tripled up in one household. Solutions to mitigate parking loss should have
been implemented before the Humboldt Street bike lanes were built, but we can still implement
them now and have an impact. Removing the Humboldt Street bike lanes would take significant staff
time and potentially require the City to return federal funds spent on the project, putting pressure on the
City budget and taxpayers. Instead of using staff time to remove infrastructure, my hope is that the City
can work proactively to implement solutions to mitigate parking loss and improve traffic, such as:

« Incentivizing residents to remove unused vehicles from the street and better utilize off-street
parking, including by leveraging regional opportunities such as the Bay Area Air Quality
Mangement District's Vehicle Buy Back Program

- Promoting awareness of existing programs such as Peninsula Clean Energy’s E-Bikes for
Everyone to provide financial assistance to residents who want to cycle but cannot afford an e-
bike, collaborating with community partners to expand financial resources and educational
programming for North Central residents

« Working with schools to implement transportation demand management (TDM) plans and expand
safe routes to school

We have an opportunity to learn from past missteps while moving forward and looking to the future.
North Central is disproportionately impacted by traffic safety issues. Many residents have been voicing
their concerns about the hazards that pedestrians experience every day due to a lack of lighting and
unsafe crossings, and traffic deaths and injuries disproportionately affect people of color by huge
margins nationwide. In addition to programming to mitigate parking challenges in North Central, let’s
focus on improving crosswalks, making intersections safer, and making sure all voices are heard while
we do so.

Sincerely,

Noelia Corzo

410 of 448


--- page 411 ---
oh Outlook

Strong Opposition to Bike Lane Removal — Prioritize Safety and Sustainability

From Case, Daniel (Euler Hermes USA) 5 —S—iCi‘

Date Fri 2/7/2025 5:38 AM

To City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash
<Idiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Danielle Cwirko-Godycki <dcwirkogodycki@cityofsanmateo.org>; Nicole
Fernandez <nfernandez@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Planning Commission
<PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; Sustainability & Infrastructure Commission
<SandiCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; PR Commission Mailbox
<PRCommissionMailbox@CityofSanMateoOrg.onmicrosoft.com>; City Mgr <citymgr@cityofsanmateo.org>

Cc DC<

Internal

Dear San Mateo City Council,

| am writing to express my strong opposition to the council’s decision to remove the Humboldt Street bike lanes in
favor of restoring parking spaces. This decision is a step backward for the city’s commitment to safety,
sustainability, and equitable transportation access.

The bike lanes were installed as part of a federally funded safety initiative in response to serious traffic incidents,
including a tragic crash that left a cyclist in a coma. Removing them not only disregards the safety of cyclists and
pedestrians but also undermines efforts to create a more sustainable and accessible city for all residents—
especially those without cars, who make up a significant percentage of the North Central neighborhood’s
population.

Additionally, the proposed alternative—a "bike boulevard" without designated lanes—fails to provide meaningful
protection for cyclists. Shared roadways do not offer the same level of safety as dedicated infrastructure, and
removing bike lanes will discourage active transportation at a time when cities across the country are investing in
more bike-friendly solutions, not fewer.

Rather than spending taxpayer dollars to dismantle existing, functional infrastructure, | urge the council to
prioritize safe, multimodal transportation options that serve all residents, not just those with cars. San Mateo has
an opportunity to lead by example, fostering a city that is forward-thinking and inclusive. Please reconsider this
decision and work toward solutions that prioritize safety, sustainability, and equity.

Sincerely,

Daniel Case

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: The information in this message, and any files transmitted with it, is
confidential, may be legally privileged, and intended only for the use of the individual(s) named above.
Be aware that the use of any confidential or personal information may be restricted by state and
federal privacy laws. If you are not the intended recipient, do not further disseminate this message. If
this message was received in error, please notify the sender and delete it.

411 of 448


--- page 412 ---
From:
Raiyan Seede
To:
City Council (San Mateo)
Subject:
Support for North Central Bike Lanes
Date:
Saturday, February 1, 2025 11:16:15 PM
Dear San Mateo City Council,
I urge you to keep the North Central bike boulevards. This $2M investment
improves safety, promotes zero-emissions transit, and makes our streets
more accessible. Removing bike lanes for parking would be a step
backward. Please continue supporting sustainable transportation in San
Mateo.
Thank you,
Dr. Raiyan Seede
412 of 448

--- page 413 ---
North Central Bike Lanes
Post Installation Review

City Council
2/3/2025

Public Works Department

Jay Yu P.E., Engineering Manager

1 of 37

413 of 448


--- page 414 ---
|. Background

Il. Community Feedback

Ill. Bike Usage & Collision Data
IV. Evaluation of Alternatives
V. Cost and Schedule Implications

VI. Next Steps

414 of 448


--- page 415 ---
Council to provide direction on addressing community
impacts of the North Central Bike Lanes Project.

Council Direction Requested

415 of 448


--- page 416 ---
|. BACKGROUND

fo “<P
tLrKOW

416 of 448


--- page 417 ---
is
Jf

: = sae at = =e ee cal aed 2 *
Gayenord Fwy 5 phone) Fwy, Poe \
Bayshore EN Bayshore EWye =
_ FP —Niampnle (Ee NABH iat Bhi a me oo are a a Sell : —< pipe ae er 4 —
* ae, = * a eS.
aan | = = - ee eee a
Wis ’ a ke . Segment 1 = ~170 parking spaces removed
= th es re
OB de < at id te t
3
>
<x
“ > = a ieee Sine
& :
= Che
» © Gimme 6 i*
Si : af, te =
etl ad 8 es)

gid
Frere ecaaa

Pac anya

ict

u
a

=]

I
ae resem NEI [i — sae 7 dawirehy Ree

i Bicathlpe Shee

SP ch. 1- Humboldt Bike Lanes Corridor
Segment 2—Poplar/Indian CorridOr mts

i
= = ore 8
A Be ty Sate ters Die cape cole, alt Sanigatees De
Bart Yate ‘8 = e OF ait
a k : | ESS be ah

417 of 448


--- page 418 ---
nS) pas
April 2020 a8
Citywide | Meeting with |
July 2022 6/17/24 | CityCouncil |
Bicycle Nov 2021 : : —_
(a6iecPlan beac bc ; Construction City Council | Seek !
; alieeyOnstruction Completion Directed Staffto! Directionon |
Adoption (NTP)
x Reengage with | Community |
(#2 Priority Project) ‘
Community , Feedback  !
(a ee ee eS
March 2023 2 2
Jan — July 2021 Feb 2022 North Central Complete als
Design/Outreach City Council Streets Plan (NCCSP)
Bike Lanes NC
May 2023 Community
NCCSP Budget Meg ing
Appropriation Seeking
Input

Project History

418 of 448


--- page 419 ---
Increase Parking Supply Driveway Red Tipping Curb Management

Implement King Center Prioritize requests Prioritize ADA
overnight parking in the North blue curb ona
program Central requests for the

community; North Central
Allow driveway waived fee community;
entrance parking waived fee

nearby parking lots
¢ DMV, Army Nation Guard,
San Mateo Superior Court

Explore a Residential
Parking Permit Program
(RPPP)

Q Explore leasing options in

Initiatives Post Installation

419 of 448


--- page 420 ---
Il. COMMUNITY FEEDBACK



--- page 421 ---
(2 Sl

Lack of Parking Speeding Low bicycle usage

Post-Installation Feedback 2022-2024

421 of 448


--- page 422 ---
>

Other S Improved Streetlighting

Infrastructure — §¢¢ pavement Resurfacing
Improvements

[ f\ S Speed Humps

Speed SS Raised Crosswalks
Calming

SSSS Mini Traffic Circles

: S Residential Permit Parking
aana) ts Program (RPPP)
. ? SS Driver Education Program
Mobility and = 9995 Shuttle/Micro-transit
Parking SamTrans Bus Stop
Improvements

t — SS All-Way Stops
d >SSSS One-Way Streets

Circulation

North Central Complete Streets Plan — Community Suggestions

422 of 448


--- page 423 ---
/ »~
gf
4
Yi

ee 12/4/24 Community Meeting: Post-Installation Feedback 11 0f 27

423 of 448


--- page 424 ---
Attendance

110 Signed-In

20 Standing
Room Only
(est.)

Demographic
28% / 31
Live on Humboldt

75% / 83
Live in NC

25% / 28
Did not live in NC

Survey Response
PS
66 Filled Survey Response
21 Residents on Humboldt St.

29 NC Residents

16 Residents from other
neighborhoods or Cities

12/4/24 Community Meeting: Post-Installation Feedback

424 of 448



--- page 425 ---
Qi How have the Humboldt > What improvements would Q3 What are your thoughts on the

Bike Lanes impacted make you feel safer walking, bicycle boulevard alternative
you, positively or biking, or driving on presented to lower speeds,
negatively? Humboldt Street? accommodate cyclists, and restore

parking on Humboldt Street?

Residents Living on | Pos. | Neg. | Mix 1. Speed Calming Measure Pos. | Neg. | Mix | NR
Humboldt | 19%! 76% | 5% 2. Lighting 19%| 33% | 19% | 29%
3. Bicycles off the sidewalk

North Central | Pos. | Neg. | Mix me) Speed Calming May Pos. | Neg. | Mix | NR

41%| 38% | 21% | 2 Lighting 28%| 34% | 24% | 14%
Residents 3. Improved Bike Protection | él 6 | Ss

Residents from other | Pos. | Neg. | Mix 1. Speed Calming Measure Pos. | Neg. | Mix | NR
69%| 25% | 6% Ze Aging 31%| 38% | 19% | 13%
neighborhoods 3. Improved Bike Protection diag) te

12/4/24 Community Meeting: Post-Installation Feedback

425 of 448


--- page 426 ---
Il. BIKE USAGE AND COLLISION DATA



--- page 427 ---
4 =.59%3 0 mn ; or af bras | wie <5 4 | ws F his) ; Te hee errr r j
* . I ‘eal us : | = ih; Y }

ie =| i4 i oe ad = a. =e m al ee —— ] ‘ l i bel t
a . : = et cient eh Baye horas vc mal to SS eS her eee —— . a p be

a Bayshore Fy, Bayshore F Baveharairay, : : a " =] 2

[e) ayehone Fwy i, ayehore

— < ape ade er oy eee Amiphtett Blvd 3 s = a =r : 4 ; —— Armpplen nd .
z <x QO | <x * = > Eee) —*
= je o) ' <3 » = Pg - i * “
‘= o = | ; oO ‘ Ss cme tat.’ t
oa i s et. L .
sel o aS) SD  ilepinahtiicat = ~ + ae mi eb dabe Br

5 a 4 > ia
ee : |

a it a: 4
a4) ; z A

he ae sages on art St

th Ys

Geprinatdivmomer
=
‘
i

ee fee es tide oe

wurst
a
ri
ae
{y ms
—
-

: : } ~ LLG + & Par:

oat 5 DilaWaratsie fr.

PM Rachie Aware
—v

Bathe Se.

! Key Destinations [-——~=i‘ds

a | .
re i 4 Existing Bike Infrastructure =
i F | WJ :
mt See | Future Bike Infrastructure

Studied Intersection r

LEH A

427 of 448


--- page 428 ---
Corridor Total: 84% Humboldt / 16% X-Traffic

AM PEAK: 7:00AM — 9:00AM
PM PEAK: 4:00PM — 6:00PM

WEEKDAY ONLY

DOES NOT INCLUDE SIDEWALK BICYCLIST

X-Traffic 33% 0% 0% 40% 18% 11% 4% 10%
Humboldt 67% 100% 100% 60% 82% 89% 96% 90%
w 70 65
Qa
ee 10)
i 50
ca)
ow 30"
S30
a 19
28/10 13 7
oo a _ _
SS SS
Peninsula E. Poplar Indian Avenue Monte Diablo Tilton Avenue 3rd Avenue 4th Avenue 5th Avenue
Avenue Avenue .
Intersections on Humboldt Street

*PM peak only

Peak Bike Usage — Trios On N. Humboldt Corridor

428 of 448


--- page 429 ---
# of Collisions (reported)

La TN |
I i |
ft ; 38% | 4.8% 0% 5.9% 0% eni976 0% 12.5%

e | ;
SIO 1 0% 1 0% 0% 0% am On 1.5% eo
fit 26.4% 32.5% 23.1% 17.6% 19% 1 31.9% 31.3% 25% |
90 | ee : |
eo I 7 69
Se I :
ee I |
— I |
40 | I a | !
30 | | 24 |
20 I i 10 8
10 4 I | )

a ' [ ! [1

IPeninsula ! E. Poplar Monte Diablo Indian Avenue Tilton Avenue 3rd Avenue Ath Avenue 5th Avenue
[| Avenue |! Avenue :
iri oe Intersections on Humboldt Street

Collision Data Period 2017 — October 2024

429 of 448



--- page 430 ---
90

80

70

Pre-Post Total Collisions MODE SPLITS

Humboldt Street ae =
81 INSTALL INSTALL
+23% we

<aieteeeetadlRRedeeeeeaee

Pre Install Post Install tit

Aug 2020 — July 2022 Aug 2022 — July 2024
Covid Pandemic

Humboldt Street Pre-Post Collision Insights 20 —24

+31%

-100%

0%

+30%

430 of 448



--- page 431 ---
IV. EVALUATION OF ALTERNATIVES



--- page 432 ---
Range of Potential Alternatives for Humboldt Ave

Alternative 1 Alternative 2 Alternative 3 Alternative 4
Keep As-ls Bicycle Boulevard on Partial Removal of Bike Remove bike lane
Humboldt Street Lanes, Pilot Bike
Boulevard
as ee * Parking is restored * — Restores 60% (100 * — Parking is restored
| Regal ce * Bike lane will convert from spaces) of parkin * — Loss of bike
bike lane p parking ae
a ee a dedicated to shared * Maintains some bike connectivity in
* — Significant capital connectivity on North Central and
of parking ; y
investment to reduce Humboldt beyond
speed * Expands bike
* — Possible for increased infrastructure to key
traffic on local streets amenities

Alternative 5 Streetlighting Upgrade

¢ Increase streetlighting to a higher intensity model.

Range of Alternatives

432 of 448


--- page 433 ---
Pavement

Speed Cushion

oe oF

ae =

=
||

7
~

oe
= eee

433 of 448


--- page 434 ---
Wameqecry
»

Key Destinations
Existing Bike Infrastructure ———= Shae Basaat

Sern avEnchaFUiSamemeny traee Seb

ee Ped Bike Brid e

Future Bike Infrastructure oor ——_—_— =
Proposed Immediate Bike Boulevard i a thi, il - a — es q rat 2,

Class Il Removal + Replace ie

Pare ep 2
i en Wie

ws

Le:
; E
100% (170 spots) of parking centers on Humboldt ‘ St.

hak r]

aii.

434 of 448



--- page 435 ---
Existi ng Looking North

co)
c
oO
|
co)
ra
co
*
iA)

=? * Bike Lane

Looking North

tm Bike/Veh Lane
Bike/Veh Lane

Sr Streetmix |

Alternative 2: Humboldt Street BB X-Section View

435 of 448


--- page 436 ---
Key Destinations

Existing Bike Infrastructure
Future Bike Infrastructure
Proposed Pilot Bike Boulevard
Class Il Removal

Alternative 3: Partial Removal of Bike Lanes + Bike Boulevard

436 of 448



--- page 437 ---
Existing

vo
c
©
4
<=
oO
=>
- a .
*

Bike/Veh Lane
Bike/Veh Lane

Sr Streetmix |

Alternative 3: Idaho or Fremont BB Street X-Section View

437 of 448


--- page 438 ---
Key Destinations

Existing Bike Infrastructure

Future Bike Infrastructure

Proposed Immediate Bike Boulevard
Class Il Removal

Wameqecry
»

Sern avEnchaFUiSamemeny traee Seb
casei Enw

—itF wees Ped Bike Brid e

j

f
art Miah he “

‘a en VE

ws

100% (170 spots) of parking centers on Humboldt ‘ St.

hak r]

aii.

438 of 448



--- page 439 ---
Exist ng Looking North

=> * BikeLane

co)
c
oO
4
)
=
aa)
*
if

Proposed Looking North

i} Veh Lane
] Veh Lane

Sr Streetmix |

Alternative 4: Humboldt Street X-Section View

439 of 448


--- page 440 ---
Key Destinations [a

Existing Bike InfrastrUCtUre scenes
Future Bike Infrastructure

— = = Ts, a cel) { ee

Bayihora kee HENTAI OMAR . Bayshore kw Bayshore pai — Bavehop
Bays ‘hore Fwy. - “ _ ce iB Department of “ustor bedi

r Motor Vehicles

San Mateo
Superior C Court

Potential for Parking Leasing
Agreement Explored

1 eee Wee Pober Pat re ce i aa

=i sil California Army aw
js National Guard ©y=

(Te E
3 rie
a E . - -

1s
' i
+#

Elutenda 5 ™
ET - =

KEY CONSIDERATIONS |
¢ Requires Interagency Agreement
° Must pay market rates
¢ Limitations on hours (e.g. 69m to 6am M-F, and weekends)
¢ Requires daily maintenance —
¢ Limited number of residents would benefit
* Does not address parking proximity for community

440 of 448


--- page 441 ---
Policy Limitations
I
né

RPPP is allowed in areas
within residential
neighborhoods where on-
street parking is impacted
by parked cars from non-
residents

Parking Generators
(Schools, Business,
Commercial Districts,
Commercial use)

Limited On-
Street Supply

Q

Limited Supply

2 — 3+ Vehicles Per
Household

L) Where is the limit?

Commercial Vehicles in
right-of-way

Capital, Maintenance
and Upkeep

fin *

L) Humboldt Street RPPP
would be largest in the City

LI Capital Cost (signage and
permits)

LJ Permit issuances and
renewal

L} Enforcement

441 of 448


--- page 442 ---
Lighting Simulation: Top-down View

Existing Streetlighting Proposed Streetlighting

Increased Lighting

° Less light directed into front ¢ More light directed into front
yard/window yard/window

Street Lighting Improvements 30 0f 37

442 of 448



--- page 443 ---
V. Cost and Schedule Implications

443 of 448


--- page 444 ---
Humboldt

Keep As-lIs Bike Blvd.
L} Cost: SO Restoration of Parking and
L} Schedule: Bike Lane Removal

N/A L} Cost: ~$850,000
yt? Oe ae aes ' () Schedule: 6m- 1yr
i
Bike Boulevard (Design &
CON)
L) Cost: ~2.2M
L) Schedule: 1- 3yr

Partial Removal,
Pilot Bike Blvd.

Restoration of Parking &
Bike Lane Removal

LI Cost: ~$620,000

L} Schedule: 6m —1yr

Full Bike
Lane Removal

Restoration of Parking and
Bike Lane Removal

LU) Cost: ~$850,000

L} Schedule: 6m- 1yr

Parallel Pilot Bike Boulevard
L) Cost: ~$150K — $300K
L) Schedule: 6m — 1yr
(inc. community engagement)

| Est. Total: ~$850k !

I
eee 4

Long-Term Plan (Include in NCCSP)

L) Connectivity Study: ~S60K

L) Greater NC Bike Boulevards: ~$1M
L) Schedule 1-3yr

Cost and Schedule Implications for Alternatives

Streetlighting
Upgrade

Streetlight Cost

LJ Humboldt Street:
~S$45,000

L} Fremont Street:
~$25,000

L) Idaho Street:
~S20,000

444 of 448



--- page 445 ---
V=NEALT Siar

fo “<P
tLrKOW

445 of 448


--- page 446 ---
We are here
jd x
; I
l
I , :
1 ) Engagement + Funding Implementation
| ! Funding Plan Appropriation
I (as needed)
i l
I
l
I Staff seeking => Staff to engage Staff to poli > ; Staff to
direction I the community to City implement on
| from City aha Council, if direction
Council ! funding plan warranted, to provided by
: request for an City Council
1 appropriation
I to implement
Re =

446 of 448


--- page 447 ---
Council to provide direction on addressing community
impacts of the North Central Bike Lanes Project.

Council Direction Requested

447 of 448


--- page 448 ---
Thank You

Jay Yu P.E., Engineering Manager
Public Works

publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org
650-522-7300

448 of 448
