source: packet.pdf
sha256: eaaa293d4270dae31a1ec9c1c2ca09646f8fa8d9c85a429644dbaf4f13860264
pages: 327
ocr_pages: 30
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission
April 28, 2020
7:00 PM
REMOTE MEETING
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Mike Etheridge, Chair
Ellen Mallory, Vice Chair
John Ebneter
Ramiro Maldonado
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD
PURSUANT TO AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS
DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
* NEW – Public Comment call in: (951) 405-2956
Enter Conference ID: 183 654 882#
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Planning Commission - Meeting Minutes Approval
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of March 24, 2020.
2.
Station Park Green Development Agreement Annual Review, 1700-1798 S. Delaware St. (PA-2020-009) –
Continued from March 24, 2020 Planning Commission Agenda
Adopt Planning Commission Resolution No. 2020-2 (Attachment 1) Finding that Essex Properties, LP has complied
in good faith with the terms of the Station Park Green Development Agreement for the review period of August 1,
2017 to December 31, 2019.
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's jurisdiction
that are not on the agenda. Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of 15 minutes
for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's jurisdiction. The
Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the agenda, but shall
refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda

--- page 2 ---
STUDY SESSION
3.
City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites (PA-2019-033)
That the Planning Commission review the redesigned multi-family residential building and parking garage on a
preliminary basis, receive public comments, and provide comments to the applicant and staff pertaining to the
proposed redesign of the seven-story residential building and parking garage
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 of the San Mateo
Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those issues raised at the
public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing. Some public
hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
4.
Draft Supplemental EIR for Concar Passage Mixed Use Project (PA-2018-052)
That the Planning Commission receive public comments on the Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Report
(EIR).
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting and can be
viewed on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org. Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the
posting of the agenda will be made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: Commission meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7212, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Comments submitted in the following ways will be made part of the official record.
Prior to the meeting: Send comments to: planning@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
Submit During the meeting in writing: Beginning at 4 pm submit comments online through Speak Up San Mateo:
Find the agenda item(s) you'd like to comment on and complete the survey form. The platform will remain open for comments until
the Chair closes the Public Comment Period for that specific item.
Staff will read these comments into the record.
During the meeting by telephone: Call in for the specific item you want to provide comment on by dialing (951) 405-2956
then enter unique conference ID found at the top of agenda.
Mute/ unmute by pressing *6. Please leave phone muted until the secretary calls on you
by the last 4 digits of your phone number.
State your name and provide your comments.
Time limits will apply. (Continued to next page)

--- page 3 ---
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the Planning Division at planning@cityofsanmateo.org or (650) 522-7212 . Notification 48
hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2949
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Kohar Kojayan
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 28, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Planning Commission - Meeting Minutes Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of March 24, 2020.
ATTACHMENTS
Att - 1 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes March 24, 2020
STAFF CONTACT
Mary Way, Administrative Assistant mway@cityofsanmateo.org (650) 522-7213

--- page 5 ---
Page 1 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
Planning Commission 
March 24, 2020 
7:00 PM 
Location: Remote 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Mike Etheridge, Chair 
Ellen Mallory, Vice Chair 
John Ebneter 
Ramiro Maldonado 
Margaret Williams 
MINUTES
CALL TO ORDER 
Pledge Allegiance 
Roll Call 
Present     4 –  Commissioner John Ebneter, Commissioner Ramiro Maldonado, Commissioner Margaret Williams 
          and Chair Mike Etheridge 
Excused     1 –  Vice Chair Ellen Mallory 
CONSENT CALENDAR 
1.
Planning Commission - Meeting Minutes Approval
Approve the Minutes of the Planning Commission meeting of February 25, 2020 by roll call vote.
Moved: Maldonado, Seconded: Etheridge
Ayes: Maldonado, Etheridge, Williams
Noes: None
Abstained: Etheridge (absent for the February 25,2020 meeting)
Excused: Mallory
PUBLIC COMMENT 
The Chair opened the public comment period. There being no speakers, the public comment period was closed. 
PUBLIC HEARING 
2.
THIS ITEM IS CONTINUED UNTIL APRIL 14, 2020 Station Park Green Development Agreement Annual Review,
1700-1798 S. Delaware St. (PA-2020-009)
Staff recommends to continue this item without discussion until the Planning Commission hearing of Tuesday,
April 14, 2020.
3.
Code Amendment – Reduced Development Standards for Qualifying AB 1763 Projects
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner brought the proposed Code Amendment – Reduced Development Standards
for Qualifying AB 1763 Projects before the Planning Commission for review. Staff provided background on AB
1763; detailed the provisions afforded by the bill to qualifying projects within a half-mile of a major transit stop
and 100 percent affordable; and outlined the specific development standards (street wall plane, private open
space, compact parking space limitations, building line and setback) proposed for modification in order to
achieve the maximum density allowed permitted by the bill.
Att -1 Planning Commission Meeting  Minutes March 24, 2020

--- page 6 ---
Planning Commission 
                                       Regular Meeting Minutes                  
                                            August 27, 2019 
 
Page 2 
 
The Commission asked questions of Staff with regard to the implications of the street wall plane requirement 
on the project, as well as the basis of the specifically proposed compact space increase and reduction in the 
open space requirement. Staff also responded to a question posed by a neighborhood association in a letter to 
the Commission regarding how AB 1763 impacts the number of parking spaces for a current development 
application on file with the City. The majority of the commissioners were supportive of the code amendment as 
proposed, however, Commissioner Williams was not supportive of the proposal to increase the allowed 
percentage of compact parking spaces as it may negatively impact residents needing larger parking spaces.  
 
There were no comments submitted from the public at the hearing. The Planning Commission motioned to 
recommend the draft ordinance to City Council. Motion passed 3-1-1 by roll call vote. 
 
Moved: Etheridge, Seconded: Maldonado 
Ayes:  Etheridge, Maldonado, Ebneter 
Noes:  Williams 
Excused:  Mallory 
  
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Rodrigo Orduna, Planning Manager summarized future projects and upcoming meetings.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
The meeting was adjourned at 7:49 p.m.

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
1 of 3
PA-2020-009
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 20-2585
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Rodrigo Orduna, Planning Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 28, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Station Park Green Development Agreement Annual Review, 1700-1798 S. Delaware St. (PA-2020-009) – 
Continued from March 24, 2020 Planning Commission Agenda
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt Planning Commission Resolution No. 2020-2 (Attachment 1) Finding that Essex Properties, LP has complied in good 
faith with the terms of the Station Park Green Development Agreement for the review period of August 1, 2017 to 
December 31, 2019. 
BACKGROUND:
Development Agreement Annual Review 
The Station Park Green Development Agreement was adopted by the City Council on January 18, 2011 and became 
effective on February 24, 2011 (Attachment #2). The Development Agreement and Government Code section 65865.1 
requires the annual review of the Agreement and all actions taken pursuant to the Development Agreement. This review is 
also required per City Council Resolution No. 120 (1990) - Establishing Procedures and Requirements for the Consideration 
of Development Agreements (Attachment #3). The Planning Commission is required to undertake this annual review and 
determine the good faith compliance by the Owner with the terms of the Agreement. 
While the Development Agreement requires an annual review, this annual review period of August 1, 2017 to December 
31, 2019 is longer in duration due to staffing changes.
Project Site Description
The project site is located within the San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan’s Hayward Park Station TOD (Transit-Oriented 
Development) Overlay Zone and consists of an approximately 12-acre parcel located at the northwest corner of South 
Delaware Street and Concar Drive (refer to Location Map, Attachment 4). The project site, now Station Park Green, is the 
location of the former K-Mart/office building, Michael's Arts and Crafts retail building, and the former Shell Service Station 
located at the corner of Delaware Street and Concar Drive. The subject property is adjacent to a variety of uses including 
commercial and office uses directly to the north; multi-family and single-family uses to the north and east; retail uses to 
the south and southeast adjacent to State Route 92 (also, the sites of the approved Hines 92 and Delaware Office 
Buildings); and the Hayward Park Caltrain Station and rail line directly to the west.
The property has the same General Plan and Zoning land use designation of Transit Oriented Development (TOD).  
Approved Specific Plan and Design Guidelines  
On January 18, 2011 the City Council, in addition to the Development Agreement, approved a Specific Plan and Design 
Guidelines that include the demolition of the existing buildings on the project site and construction of a mix of residential, 
office, retail and park uses. A Mitigated Negative Declaration was also certified to address the project’s potential 
environmental impacts.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
2 of 3
PA-2020-009
ANNUAL REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
The Station Park Green Owner (Essex Properties, LP) is required to submit a letter and additional documentation 
demonstrating good faith compliance with the terms and conditions of the Development Agreement no less than 30 days 
nor no more than 60 days prior to the anniversary of the effective date of the Agreement. This information (Attachment 
#5) was submitted to the City on January 22, 2020 for the period of August 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019 for the seventh 
year of the Development Agreement. As noted previously, while the Development Agreement requires an annual review, 
this annual review period of August 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019 is longer in duration due to staffing changes. A matrix 
has been prepared summarizing the public benefits and their timing and includes the following information: 
       •
Development Agreement requirement and section number; 
       •
Requirement trigger;
       •
Requirement status; and
       •
Requirement due date.
This matrix demonstrates that the Owner has complied with or is working toward completing all the applicable 
requirements of the Development Agreement for the review period of August 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019 consisting of:

Grant by Developer of a surface easement for the purposes of a Class I bike facility and landscaping strip along the 
southeasterly frontage of the Property with Concar Drive.  This was completed on September 6, 2017. (DA Article 3 
A.1.(a.)) 

Development, operation, and maintenance of a 3,000 square feet community room, available to the San Mateo 
community free of charge. This space was completed with the opening of MU1 on May 7, 2018. (DA Article 3 
A.1.(e.))  

Relocation and underground of existing utility lines within the public right-of-way of Concar Drive along property 
frontage. On October 29, 2018 all of the overhead lines were removed and placed underground. The AT&T poles 
were removed from the sidewalk in December 2018. (DA Article 3 A.1.(f.))

Join the City’s Transportation Management Association (TMA).  The Developer joined the TMA in 2015. (DA Article 
3.A.2)

Developer waives its right to request a density bonus.  The Developer waived the right during the entitlement 
process.  Since signing the Development Agreement, permits have been pulled for three buildings and construction 
has begun on the fourth and final building.  (DA Article 3.A.5) These buildings will be completed in the next two 
years.
The following item is the only ongoing task.

Meet and confer with developers of PA09-009 (Hines) to pursue shared parking opportunities between the two 
developments.  This is on-going as it directly relates to the TMA and trip counts. (DA Article 3.A.3)
PROJECT STATUS
During the period of this annual review, the applicant has continued working on implementation of the project.  At this 
time, the Site Development Permit for grading and public improvements, and Building Permit review of building RE-2 
consisting of the foundation, garage, and housing units are being processed through the City. This building received the 
last phase of Temporary Certificate of Occupancy (TCO) in November of 2019.  There remain two (2) years of the 
Development Agreement’s ten-year term.

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
3 of 3
PA-2020-009
FINDING OF COMPLIANCE
The Development Agreement requires the Planning Commission to determine the good faith compliance by the Owner 
with the terms of the Development Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the Development Agreement Article 
8, Section (C) of the Development Agreement Resolution and Government Code Section 65865.1. A Resolution 
(Attachment 1) was prepared for adoption to formally find that Essex Properties, has complied in good faith with the terms 
of the Station Park Green Development Agreement for the sixth review period of August 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019.  
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Development Agreement Annual Review is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5))
NOTICE PROVIDED
Development Agreement Annual Reviews are not public hearing items and do not require public noticing. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Resolution No. 2020-2
Att 2 – Station Park Green Development Agreement 
Att 3 – City Council No.120 (1990) - Establishing Procedures and Requirements for the Consideration of Development
Agreements 
Att 4 – Location Map 
Att 5 – Request from Essex Properties, LP for Station Park Green Development Agreement Annual Review and 
Development Agreement Matrix  
STAFF CONTACT
Lorraine Weiss, Contract Planner
lweiss@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-6604

--- page 10 ---
PA 20-009 
Station Park Green Development Agreement Annual Review 
(to Planning Commission Meeting of March 10, 2020) 
PLANNING COMMISSION 
RESOLUTION NO. 2020–2 
FINDING THAT ESSEX PROPERTIES, LP HAS COMPLIED IN GOOD FAITH WITH THE 
TERMS OF THE STATION PARK GREEN DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE REVIEW 
PERIOD OF AUGUST 1, 2017 TO DECEMBER 31, 2019. 
RESOLVED, By the Planning Commission of the City of San Mateo, California, that; 
RECITALS 
WHEREAS, the Station Park Green Development Agreement was adopted by the City 
Council on January 18, 2011 and became effective on February 24, 2011; and 
WHEREAS, the Development Agreement and Government Code section 65865.1 
requires the annual review of the Agreement and all actions taken pursuant to the Development 
Agreement, and the Planning Commission is required to undertake this annual review and 
determine the good faith compliance by the Owner with the terms of the Agreement; and, 
WHEREAS, the Owner submitted documentation setting forth the Owner’s good faith 
compliance with the terms and conditions of the Development Agreement for the review period 
of August 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019; and 
WHEREAS, Article 8 of the Development Agreement requires the developer to contact 
the City annually for the annual review; 
WHEREAS, the City’s Development Agreement procedures as adopted by the City 
Council on October 15, 1990 require annual review of the Development Agreement, 
WHEREAS, this is an annual review of the seventh year of the Development Agreement 
(August 1, 2017 – December 31, 2019), 
WHEREAS, the Owner initiated this review in January 22, 2020, 
WHEREAS, the specific requirement that was completed in the 2017 year of the 
Development Agreement included the grant by owner of a surface easement for the purposes of 
a Class I bike facility and landscaping strip along the southeasterly frontage of the Property with 
Concar Drive. This was completed on September 6, 2017; and  
WHEREAS, the specific requirement that the development, operation and maintenance 
of a community room of 3,000 square feet be made available to the San Mateo community free 
of charge. This space was completed with the opening of MUI on May 7, 2018; and  
WHEREAS, the specific requirement that the relocation and underground of existing 
utility lines within the public right-of-way of Concar Drive along the property frontage.  On 
October 29, 2018 all of the overhead lines were removed and placed underground. The AT&T 
poles were removed from the sidewalk in December 2018; and 
WHEREAS, the specific requirement that the developers of Hines (PA 09-009 and 
Station Park Green meet and confer to pursue shared parking opportunities between the two 
Att 1 – Resolution No. 2020-2

--- page 11 ---
Planning Commission Resolution No. 2020-2 
PA 20-009 Station Park Green Development Agreement Annual Review  
Meeting of March 10, 2020 
Page 2 of 3 
 
 
 
developments.  This is on-going as it directly relates to the Transportation Management 
Association (TMA) and trip counts; and    
 
WHEREAS, the specific requirement that the developer waives its right to request a 
density bonus. The Developer waived the right during the entitlement process. Since signing the 
Development Agreement, permits have been pulled for three buildings and construction has 
begun on the fourth and final building; 
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo, in accordance with California Government Code 
Section 65865.1 through this Planning Commission has held a public hearing pursuant to the 
notice required by law for the finding of Owner’s compliance in good faith with the terms of the 
Development Agreement, at which hearing the Commission received and considered written 
and oral evidence; and 
 
WHEREAS, the City considered all aspects of the Station Park Green development 
project including the Development Agreement and its provisions for this annual review in the 
Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Station Park Green Specific Plan and Design Guidelines 
that was prepared and circulated for public review pursuant to CEQA, and the City Council 
adopted the Mitigated Negative Declaration on January 18, 2011. In accordance with CEQA 
Guidelines Section 15378, this development agreement review is not a project subject to CEQA 
in that it will not have a significant effect on the environment. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS FOUND, DETERMINED AND ORDERED, THAT: 
 
1. The Planning Commission has determined in accordance with CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378, the action taken herein is not a project subject to CEQA in that it will 
not have a significant effect on the environment. 
 
2. Both parties to the Development Agreement have complied with the requirements of 
Article 3 of the Development Agreement.  
 
3. The Recitals set forth at the beginning of this Resolution are hereby incorporated as 
findings based on substantial evidence in the record and on that basis are hereby 
adopted and approved. 
 
4. The Planning Commission, by at least a majority of its members, hereby finds that 
based on substantial evidence Essex Properties, LP has complied in good faith with 
the terms of the Station Park Green Development Agreement for the review period of 
August 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019 within the meaning of Article 8, Section (C) of 
the Development Agreement, Section 8(a) of Resolution 120 (1990) adopted by the 
City Council on October 15, 1990, and Cal. Government Code Section 65865.1.  
 
5. A certified copy of this resolution shall be filed with the City Clerk. 
 
Resolution adopted by the San Mateo City Planning Commission at its meeting of March 10, 
2020.  
 
 
 
AYES:  
 
NOES:

--- page 12 ---
Planning Commission Resolution No. 2020-2 
PA 20-009 Station Park Green Development Agreement Annual Review  
Meeting of March 10, 2020 
Page 3 of 3 
 
 
 
 
ABSENT:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mike Etheridge, Chair 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
City of San Mateo Planning Commission 
 
 
Exhibits on File at the Planning Division Office: 
A: Station Park Green Annual Review Matrix

--- page 13 ---
' ' 
J 
' 
t 
$3!4%&'G():*:FEE 
When Recorded, Mail to: 
Count of Pages 43 
Recorded in Official Records 
County of San Mateo 
Mark Church 
City of San Mateo 
ATTN: City Clerk 
330 West 201h Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
1111ttiilili l1J/1Hiji@f1·"1r1ili1i1111 
* R O O O 1 1 4 8 3 8 8 *
+ti,+--f-n-t-d.,A-/0§123D-v-J456=M7m8e=N-+9C-·:Dd;e-&-<=+-tM>?@AlDBC---
L\-·3f 
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT 
BY AND BETWEEN 
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO AND ARJAX RAILROAD ASSOCIATES II, LLC 
RELATIVE TO THE DEVELOPMENT KNOWN AS 
STATION PARK GREEN 
THIS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of the 
Execution Date (as defined in Article 2, S¨ction B below), by and between the CITY OF SAN 
MATEO, a political subdivision of the State of California ("City"), and ARJAX RAILROAD 
ASSOCIATES II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Developer"), pursuant to the 
authority of Sections 65864 through 65869.5 of the Government Code of the State of California 
(the "Development Agreement Statutes") and City Council Resolution No. 120 (the 
"Development Agreement Resolution"). City and Developer are sometimes referred to herein as 
the "Parties." 
R E CI T A L S
A. 
To strengthen the public planning process, encourage private participation in
comprehensive planning and reduce the economic risk of development, the Legislature of the State 
of California enacted the Development Agreement Statutes, authorizing municipalities to enter 
into development agreements in connection with the development of real property within their 
jurisdiction with persons having a legal or equitable interest in such real property. 
B. 
The purpose of the Development Agreement Statutes is to authorize municipalities, 
in their discretion, to establish certain development rights in real property for a period of years 
regardless of intervening changes in land use regulations. 
C.
As authorized by Government Code Section 65865(c), the City has adopted the
Development Agreement Resolution establishing the procedures and requirements for the 
consideration of development agreements within the City. 
D.
Developer owns fee title to that certain real property located at 1700 South
Delaware Street, San Mateo, California (County of San Mateo APN 035-200-060 and County of 
San Mateo APN 035-200-180), and more particularly described in Exhibit A attached hereto (the 
"Property"). The sole member of Developer is Ardmore PA Railroad Associates, LLC, a 
Delaware limited liability company, owned in part and controlled by Edward B. Lipkin. 
1 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA O 1-18-11 FINAL.rtf 
ORIGINAL SCANNED
Att 2 – Station Park Green Development Agreement

--- page 14 ---
\ , 
. 
r 
1 
, 
E. 
On July 6, 2005, the City Council of the City (the "City Council") adopted the San 
Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan (the "Corridor Plan"), a plan 
formulated with the express goal of pursuing transit-oriented development within the 
transportation corridor along the Caltrain right-of-way. 
F. 
On May 7, 2007, the City Council adopted an ordinance amending the City's 
zoning regulations by establishing a transit-oriented development district (the "TOD District") in 
which all uses must be consistent with the development standards, policies and guidelines 
specified in the Corridor Plan, and by rezoning those properties (including the Property) 
designated as Transit Oriented Development in the Corridor Plan. 
G. 
Developer desires to provide the transit-oriented development and high-density 
uses encouraged and permitted by the General Plan (as defined in Article 2, Section C below), the 
Corridor Plan and the TOD District, and to that end has filed Planning Application No. 07-030 (the 
"Planning Application") for, among other things, the City to adopt the Station Park Green 
Specific Plan (the "Specific Plan") and the Station Park Green Design Guidelines (the "Design 
Guidelines") affecting the Property, and thereby allowing the phased development of Developer's 
proposed mixed-use, transit-oriented project as described in those documents (the "Project"), 
including: (1) up to 599 dwelling units; (2) a minimum of25,000 gross square feet ("gg'') and up 
to 60,000 gsf, of retail /services/ restaurant uses, and a minimum of 10,000 gsf and up to 45,000 
gsf of office use; and (3) approximately 2. 0 acres of private maintained open space open to the 
general public (but excluding publicly accessible streets and residential usable open space). 
H. 
Developer has committed to contribute toward the development of significant 
public infrastructure and other improvements in excess of what Developer could otherwise be 
legally required to provide ( collectively, the "Public Benefits"). 
I. 
In exchange for the Public Benefits, Developer desires this Agreement with the 
City to assure that Developer shall, at the time of application, be entitled to proceed to construct 
and complete the Project at any time within the Term (as defined in Article 1, Section B below), 
subject only to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, including, without limitation, 
providing the Public Benefits in accordance with Article 3, Section A. I below. City finds a 
substantial public benefit in the provision of the Public Benefits and the other benefits set forth in 
this Agreement. 
J. 
City has determined that the Project is a development for which a development 
agreement is appropriate. A development agreement will eliminate uncertainty in the City's land 
use planning for the Property, assure installation of necessary improvements and mitigation 
appropriate to the development of the Project, assure attainment of the maximum effective 
utilization of resources within the City at the least economic cost to its citizens, secure public 
improvements and other amenities that could not otherwise be obtained, and otherwise achieve the 
goals and purposes for which the Development Agreement Resolution was enacted by the City. 
K. 
City has examined the environmental effects of the Project, the Public Benefits, and 
this Agreement in the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration ("MND") prepared for the 
2 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA O 1-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 15 ---
/,. 
, 
, ' 
Planning Application pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act ("CEQA"). On 
January 18, 2011, the City Council reviewed and adopted the MND as adequate to assess the 
environn1ental effects of the Project and the Public Benefits in addition to the Planning 
Application, including this Agreement. The terms and conditions of this Agreement are consistent 
with and within the scope of the MND. Except as potentially required for the exercise of 
Subsequent Discretionary Powers (as defined in Article 4, Section C below), no further 
environmental documentation is anticipated. 
L. 
After conducting a duly noticed public hearing on December 16, 2010, the 
Planning Commission of the City (the "Planning Commission") reviewed, considered, and 
recommended approval of (1) the MND, and (2) the Planning Application, including this 
Agreement, thereby authorizing development of the Project and provision of the Public Benefits. 
M. 
After conducting a duly noticed public hearing on January 18, 2011, and after 
independent review and consideration, the City Council approved by Ordinance No. _1_ the 
execution of this Agreement (the "Enacting Ordinance"), and, by resolution, the Planning 
Application, including both the Specific Plan and the Design Guidelines, thereby authorizing 
development of the Project and provision of the Public Benefits. The City Council also found that 
the provisions of this Agreement are consistent with the City's General Plan as well as the Corridor 
Plan, are compatible with the requirements of the City's zoning ordinance and provide substantial 
public benefits to persons residing or owning property outside the boundaries of the Project, 
beyond the exactions for public benefits required in the normal development review process under 
federal, state, or local law. In exchange for providing these public benefits, Developer receives 
assurance from City that Developer shall be entitled to proceed with development of the Project 
and provision of the Public-Benefits in accordance with the Planning Application and the Existing 
I 
. 
~s-{as defined in Article 3, Section B.2 below), subject only to the terms and conditions 
/-- · ··· contained in ·this-AgreJ:~t; including, without limitation, Article 4, Section C below. 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants hereinafter set forth and 
the foregoing recitals, which are incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this 
Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are 
hereby acknowledged, City and Developer hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE! 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
A. 
City and State Laws. This Agreement is subject to applicable law pertaining to 
development agreements, specifically the Development Agreement Resolution and the 
Development Agreement.Statutes. 
B. 
Term. The term of this Agreement (the "Term") shall commence upon the 
Effective Date and shall expire ten (10) years after the Effective Date, unless terminated, modified 
or extended, as provided herein, or under the Development Agreement Statutes and the 
Development Agreement Resolution. All subdivision approvals (including, without limitation, the 
Subdivision Maps referenced in Article 4, Section F below), Site Plan arid Architectural Review 
("SP AR") permits, Site Development permits, use permits, and any other land use and 
3 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 F!NAL.rtf

--- page 16 ---
t 
( 1 
r \ 
\ 
development approvals for the Project and the Public Benefits (collectively, "Subsequent 
Approvals") granted, issued or approved by the City shall be effective and valid for the duration 
of the Term, unless a longer period is permitted under otherwise applicable law. 
C. 
Development of Property. City approves and consents to the development of the 
Property and to the construction of the Project in substantial conformity with the Planning 
Application at any time during the Term, but only on the condition that: 
I. 
Developer complies with all conditions of approval of the Planning Application 
("Conditions of Approval"); 
2. 
Developer complies with its obligations with respect to Public Benefits; and 
3. 
A buildingpermit application or applications for the substantive components of the 
Project has or have been filed prior to expiration of the Term, which building permits may be 
extended administratively for up to eighteen (18) months beyond the expiration of the Term to 
ensure substantial completion of the Project by that time. This provision shall survive the 
expiration of the Term. 
D. 
Commencement and Timing of Development. The Parties acknowledge that 
except for any express deadlines set forth in this Agreement, including the schedule for the 
provision of Public Benefits attached hereto as Exhibit B (the "Timing of Public Benefits"), and 
in the Conditions of Approval, Developer shall have the right to develop the Project in such order 
and at such rate and at such times as Developer deems appropriate within the exercise of its 
subjective business judgment. This includes, without limitation, using some portions of the 
Property as construction staging areas during construction on other portions of the Property. 
E. 
Vested Rights; No Waiver of Rights to Existing Uses or Structures. Developer shall 
have the vested right to develop the Property, construct the Project and provide the Public Benefits, 
in accordance with the Specific Plan, the Design Guidelines, the MND, the Conditions of 
Approval, the terms of this Agreement, and the Existing City Laws (as defined in Article 3, 
Section B.2 below). Notwithstanding anything set forth in this Agreement to the contrary, under 
no circumstances shall Developer be obligated to proceed with the Project or any portion of the 
Project, and, prior to and/or at any time after undertaking the Project, Developer shall be entitled to 
apply to the City for approvals to develop different projects, and/or to make repairs, 
improvements, additions and renovations to the existing buildings, structures, landscaping and 
infrastructure at the Property (the "Existing Improvements"), in conformance with the San Mateo 
Municipal Code (the "Municipal Code"). City agrees not to unreasonably or arbitrarily withhold, 
condition, or delay consent to such repairs, improvements, additions and renovations to the 
Existing Improvements. City expressly acknowledges that Developer has not abandoned or 
relinquished any rights to the Existing Improvements or the existing uses at the Property. 
F. 
Police Powers. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the City reserves 
its police powers unto itself. 
4 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA O 1-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 17 ---
,' 
ARTICLE2 
DEFINITIONS 
A. 
"Effective Date" means the later of (1) the date the Enacting Ordinance takes effect 
pursuant to City ordinances and chaiier, or (2) if the Enacting Ordinance is subject to a valid · 
referendum proceeding pursuant to Elections Code §§ 9200 et seq., the date the Enacting 
Ordinance is upheld pursuant to such referendum proceeding. 
B. 
"Execution Date" means the date on which all signatures to this Agreement have 
been obtained. 
C. 
"General Plan" means the City of San Mateo General Plan, adopted by the City 
Council on July 16, 1990, and subsequently amended, as in effect on the Execution Date. 
D. 
"Mortgage" means: (1) any mortgage or deed of trust or other transaction in which 
the Property, or a portion thereof or a direct or indirect ownership or other interest therein, or any 
improvements thereon, is conveyed or pledged as security; or (2) a sale and leaseback arrangement 
in which the Property, or a portion thereof, or any improvements thereon, is sold and leased back 
concurrently therewith. 
E. 
"Mortgagee" means any holder of a beneficial interest ( or the owner and landlord 
in the case of any sale and leaseback arrangement) under a Mortgage. 
F. 
"Processing Fees" means all fees imposed by the City and payable upon the 
submission of an application for a permit or approval, which cover only the estimated actual costs 
of processing that application, and are not only applicable to the Project but applied citywide. 
ARTICLE3 
OBLIGATIONS OF DEVELOPER AND CITY 
A. 
Obligations of Developer. 
1. 
Public Benefits. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including 
the Timing of Public Benefits attached hereto as Exhibit B, Developer shall provide the following 
Public Benefits: 
a. 
Grant by Developer to City of a surface easement for purposes of a Class I bike 
facility and landscaping strip along the southeasterly frontage of the Property with Concar Drive 
(the "Multi-Use Path") at an estimated value of $813,000, and in substantial conformity with the 
plan attached hereto as part of Exhibit C; 
b. 
Contribution by Developer to City of $627,000 to help fund or reimburse the City 
for the design and construction of that portion of the Complete Street project along the South 
Delaware frontage of the Property, as further described in the Specific Plan and Design 
Guidelines, and in substantial conformity with the diagrams attached hereto as part of Exhibit C; 
5 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA O 1-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 18 ---
-~ 
c. 
Contribution by Developer to City of $200,000 to help fund or reimburse the City 
for (i) a residual flooding preliminary engineering study of the immediate area around the Property 
(the "Flood Studies"); (ii) plaIU1ing for the Hayward Park Station Area; and/or (iii) pedestrian and 
bicycle improvements in the immediate area; 
d. 
Contribution by Developer of $60,000 to help fund, or to reimburse the City for, the 
planting and two {2) years of maintenance for trees in the 19th A venue Park neighborhood in 
substantial conformity with the plan attached hereto as Exhibit D; 
e. 
Development, operation and maintenance of a community room of at least 3,000 
square feet within Block MU-1, MU-2 or MU-3, available to the members of the San Mateo 
community free of charge by reservation and subject to availability at an estimated value of 
$375,000. 
f. 
Relocation underground of existing utility lines within the public right-of-way of 
Concar Drive along the frontage of the Property in conjunction with initial site grading of Blocks 
MU-1, MU-2 and MU-3, at an estimated value of $1,500,000. 
g. 
Developer must comply with the City's Below Market Rate Housing program in 
existence on the date this Agreement is executed. 
2. 
Transportation Management Association. Developer will join the City's 
Transportation.Management Association, as described in the Conditions of Approval. 
3. 
Long-Term Shared or Reduced Parking Plans. Developer agrees to meet and 
confer in good faith with the developers of the transit-oriented development located at 400-450 
Concar Drive in San Mateo approved under PlaIU1ing Application No. 09-009, to pursue shared or 
reduced parking plans between that project and the Project that might discourage vehicular 
commuting and encourage train utilization. Developer shall keep PlaIU1ing Division staff 
reasonably informed of its efforts under this provision and shall allow Planning Division staff to 
attend such meetings. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City shall not be required to approve any 
shared or reduced parking plan below the minimum parking ratios required under the Planning 
Application, and Developer shall not be required to eliminate any parking stalls that have been 
constructed in accordance with the PlaIU1ing Application. 
4. 
Green Building Requirement. No later than the Execution Date, Developer shall 
provide the City with a copy of the letter dated March 24, 2008, from the U.S. Green Building 
Council ("USGBC") confirming Stage 1 (Plan Pre-Review) approval of the Project at the Gold 
level under the Pilot Version, updated July 2007, of the USGBC's Leadership in Energy and 
Environmental Design for Neighborhood Development Rating System ("LEED-ND"). 
5. 
Density Bonus Waiver. Developer waives its right to request a density bonus. 
6 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA O 1-18-1 J FINAL.rtf

--- page 19 ---
' ' 
B. 
Obligations of City 
I. 
Development Plan Shall Not Be Diminished or Impeded by City. City agrees that 
during the Term, the timing, size, scope, nature, and Conditions of Approval of the Project shall 
not be changed, affected, modified, delayed, or diminished, regardless of any increased burden of 
pending, proposed or future developments on public facilities, including, without limitation, roads, 
water systems, roadways, intersections, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, utilities, traffic signals, 
curb gutters, sidewalks, parks, amenities, recreation areas, landscaping, schools, landfill, and other 
off-site improvements, except for requirements imposed by State or Federal law, and that no 
further CEQA compliance will be required of the Project as described in the Planning Application. 
Without limiting the foregoing, City further agrees that during the Term, with the exception of 
Public Benefits and the Conditions of Approval, no construction or contribution toward funding 
additional infrastructure or other improvements shall be required of Developer by City in 
connection with the Project, except for requirements imposed by State or Federal law. City shall 
take no action nor impose any condition that would conflict with this Agreement or the 
implementation of the Project or the Planning Application, including, without limitation, by: 
reducing the density or intensity of the Project, or any part thereof; reducing the height or bulk of 
the Project, or any part thereof; forbidding or limiting any permitted land uses; controlling the rate, 
timing; phasing or sequencing of the development of the Project; controlling the availability of or 
any privileges or rights to public utilities, services or facilities; controlling rents, purchase prices, 
ownership association fees or common area charges within the Project; limiting the proc:essing or 
procuring of applications for Subsequent Approvals; or increasing any development impact fees 
within the Existing City Laws (as defined in Article 3, Section B.2 below), except as specifically 
permitted under Article 4, Section E below. 
2. 
Existing City Laws. Except as specifically provided herein, City's charter, General 
Plan, Corridor Plan, ordinances, resolutions, codes, rules, regulations and official policies 
governing the permitted uses of land, density and intensity of use, maximum height, bulk, size, 
design, location, and construction standards and specifications applicable to the Project, the 
Property, the Public Benefits, and the property on which the Public Benefits will be constructed, 
including, without limitation, the Specific Plan and the Design Guidelines (collectively, the "City 
Laws"), shall be only those City Laws in effect as of the Execution Date, without regard to any 
amendments or modifications thereto that become effective after the Execution Date (the 
"Existing City Laws"). City aclmowledges and agrees that under the Existing City Laws, 
Developer shall be entitled to build and occupy the Project on the Property. If Developer applies 
for changes to the Existing City Laws during the Term, City agrees that it will process such 
applications pursuant to State law and the Municipal Code. 
3. 
Recording. Pursuant to Government Code section 65868.5, within ten (10) days 
after this Agreement is approved and executed by the Parties hereto, the City shall submit a 
complete original of this Agreement to the Recorder's Office of the County of San Mateo, 
California, to be recorded and shall provide Developer with a certified copy of such recordation. 
From and after the time of such recordation, this Agreement shall impart such notice thereof to all 
persons as is afforded by the recording laws of this State, and the burdens of this Agreement, 
including all its exhibits, shall be binding upon, and the benefits of this Agreement, including all 
7 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 20 ---
. 
, 
("', 
exhibits, shall inure to, all successors in interest to the Parties. If the Paiiies or their 
successors-in-interest amend, modify, cancel or terminate this Agreement pursuant to its terms, 
City shall have notice of such action recorded with the Recorder's Office of the County of San 
Mateo, California, within ten (10) days, and shall provide Developer with a certified copy of such 
recordation. 
ARTICLE4 
DEVELOPMENT OF PROPERTY 
A. 
Applicable New City Laws. Notwithstanding Article 3, Section B.2 above, City 
may apply the following new City Laws to the Project, the Property, the Public Benefits, and the 
prope1iy on which the Public Benefits will be constructed ("Applicable New Citv Laws"): 
1. 
New City Laws that (a) are not inconsistent with and do not conflict with the 
Existing City Laws, the Planning Application, the Project, or the Conditions of Approval, (b) do 
not diminish any of Developer's rights granted in this Agreement or increase any of Developer's 
obligations with respect to the Project, including, without limitation, as provided under Article 3, 
Section B above, and (c) are not inconsistent with and do not conflict with any of the terms or 
conditions of this Agreement; 
2. 
New City Laws that are specifically mandated and required by changes in State or 
Federal laws and regulations; and 
3. 
New City Laws that are applicable to the following situations and are in effect at the 
time that Developer submits an application for a building permit for the Project: 
a. 
Procedural requirements for building and occupancy permit application submittal 
and issuance; 
b. 
Construction standards pursuant to all Uniform Building Codes incorporated by the 
Municipal Code; 
c. 
Engineering specifications for construction of any off-site public improvements 
such as curbs, gutters, and sidewalks; 
d. 
Building security requirements adopted pursuant to Title 23 of the Municipal Code; 
e. 
Any requirements applicable upon issuance of a building permit for which City acts 
as an administering agent for any State or Federal agency; and 
f. 
Any Processing Fees, in accordance with Article 4, Section D, below. 
B. 
Moratoria. In the event that any ordinance, resolution, general plan amendment, 
specific plan or specific plan amendment, or other measure is enacted, whether by action of the 
City, by initiative, referendum, or otherwise, which relates to the timing of development, the size 
or scope of all or any part of the Project, or the conditions, mitigation measures, exactions, or 
8 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA O 1-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 21 ---
impact fees to be imposed on all .or any part of the Project, City agrees that such ordinance, 
resolution, general plan, specific plan or other measure shall not apply to the Project, the Property, 
the Public Benefits, the property on which the Public Benefits will be constructed, or this 
Agreement. It is the desire of the Parties to avoid the result in Pardee Construction Co. v. City of 
Camarillo, 37 Cal.3d 465 (1984), in which the California Supreme Court held that because the 
parties there had failed to consider and expressly provide for the timing of development, a 
later-adopted initiative restricting the timing of development prevailed over the parties' agreement. 
Without limiting the foregoing, Article 1, Section D above, or Article 3, Section B above, City 
agrees that no moratorium or other limitation (whether relating to the timing or sequencing of the 
development, or the size, scope, conditions, or construction of all or any part of the Project) 
affecting building permits or other entitlements to use or development which are approved or to be 
approved, issued or granted within the City, or portions of the City, shall apply to the Project, the 
Property, the Public Benefits, the property on which the Public Benefits will be constructed, or this 
Agreement, unless such moratorium or other limitation has been adopted by City as an emergency 
ordinance on the basis of its finding that a significant public health or safety emergency exists such 
that the failure of the City to terminate or modify the provisions of this Agreement would place the 
residents of the City in a condition dangerous to their health or safety (a "Health or Safety 
Danger"), in which case the Term shall be extended automatically for a period of time equal to 
that of such emergency moratorium or other limitation affecting development of the Project. 
Developer reserves the right to challenge any such limitation in a court of law should it become 
necessary to protect or enforce the provisions and intent of this Agreement. 
C. 
Subsequent Discretionary Powers. Developer acknowledges that the Existing City 
Laws contemplate the exercise of subsequent discretionary powers by the City, subject to City's 
obligations under Article 3, Section B. These constitute "Subsequent Discretionary Powers," 
and may include, without limitation, Subsequent Approvals, finalization of the financing actions 
necessary to implement the monitoring and implementation of environmentai mitigation 
measures, and further CEQA review of individual phases of the Project as it builds out where 
required by State law. Nothing in this Article shall be construed to limit the authority or the 
obligation of the City to hold legally required public hearings, or to limit unlawfully the discretion 
of City and any of its officers or officials in complying with or applying Existing City Laws and 
Applicable New City Laws. 
D. 
Application, Processing and Inspection Fees. Processing Fees that are revised 
during the Term shall apply to the development of the Project pursuant to this Agreement provided 
that (1) such revised fees apply generally to similar private projects or works within City, (2) the 
application of such fees to development of the Project is prospective only, unless otherwise agreed 
to by Developer, and (3) the application of such fees to development of the Project would not 
require an amendment of this Agreement, including, without limitation, any of the exhibits 
incorporated herein. 
E. 
No New Development Impact Fees. City expressly agrees that Developer and its 
successors-in-interest shall have no obligation to participate in, pay, contribute, or otherwise 
provide as a condition or exaction of any Subsequent Approval by City, any new-impact fees 
imposed on development, however described or defined, that did not exist under the Existing City 
Laws. This provision will not preclude authorized and reasonable increases or decreases to those 
9 
Q:\cityatty\Agreemenls\CDD - Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 22 ---
development impact fees in existence under the Existing City Laws solely to account for increases 
or decreases in the Consumer Price Index for All Consumers ("CPI-U") for San 
Francisco-Oakland-San Jose metropolitan area measured by the United States Department of 
Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics. The City shall not modify or renegotiate the development 
impact fees applicable to the Project as a result of any amendment to this Agreement or the 
Planning Application unless such amendment materially increases the density or intensity of the 
Project. The Parties acknowledge that the provisions contained in this Article 4, Section E, are 
intended to implement the intent of the Parties that Developer has the right to develop the Project 
pursuant to specified and known criteria and rules, and that City receives the benefits which will be 
conferred as result of such development without abridging the right of City to act in accordance 
with its powers, duties and obligations. 
F. 
Subdivision Maps. 
1. 
Developer shall have the right, from time to time or at any time, to apply for one (1) 
or more Tentative Maps ("Master Tentative Maps"), subdividing the Property or portions of the 
Property into parcels corresponding to the "Blocks," "Streets" and/or "Open Spaces" (all, as 
specified in the Planning Application), as may be necessary in order to develop, sell, lease or 
finance any portion of the Property in connection with development of the Project consistent with 
_the density and parcel sizes set forth in the Planning Application. Multiple final maps may be filed 
for any Master Tentative Map pursuant to Government Code Section 66456.1. 
2. 
Developer shall have the right to apply for a subsequent Tentative Map 
("Subsequent Tentative Map") prior to the time that the Master Tentative Map has been 
approved and prior to the time that the Final Subdivision Map based on the Master Tentative Map 
has been approved and filed for record. City may grant approval of a Master Tentative Map or of 
a Subsequent Tentative Map or Subsequent Tentative Maps with conditions as to the development 
of the parcel or parcels described on the Master Tentative Map or Subsequent Tentative Map. 
Conditions of approval of a Subsequent Tentative Map shall include that the conditions of the 
Master Tentative Map as to the parcel or parcels shown and described on the Subsequent Tentative 
Map have been fulfilled. 
3. 
Each Master Tentative Map, Subsequent Tentative Map and Final Subdivision Map 
may be "for condominium purposes," approving the portion of the Property described therein for a 
maximum number of condominium units. Any portion of the Property described on a Final 
Subdivision Map "for co,ndominium purposes" may be divided into condominiums by a 
condominium plan in accordance with Civil Code Section 135l(e) and Government Code Section 
66427. A Final Subdivision Map for a portion of the Property described in a Tentative Map may 
not be approved until the conditions of approval of the Tentative Map applicable to the portion of 
the Property described in the Final Subdivision Map have been satisfied. 
4. 
Pursuant to Government Code Section 65867.5, City has determined that this 
Agreement is not subject to the provisions of Government Code Section 664 73. 7 for the following 
two (2) independent reasons: (a) the Project is a residential project proposed for a site that is 
within an urbanized area and has been previously developed for urban uses; and (b) the immediate 
contiguous prope1ties surrounding the Property are, and previously have been, developed for 
10 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 23 ---
urban uses, all within the meaning of Government Code Section 664 73. 7(i). Therefore, the maps 
referenced in this Article 4, Section F shall be exempt from the requirements of Government Code 
Section 66473.7 concerning water verifications. 
5. 
Notwithstanding that the Planning Application, the MND, the Conditions of 
Approval and this Agreement apply to the entire Property and run with the land, if and to the extent 
that the Property is subdivided into separate parcels and any such parcels are transferred, following 
the execution of an Assumption Agreement in connection with a Transferred Parcel (as defined in 
Article 11, Section A below) the obligations of a Transferee (as defined in Article 11, Section A 
below) shall be limited to those provisions of the Planning Application, the MND, the Conditions 
of Approval, this Agreement and the Subsequent Approvals only insofar as they apply to the parcel 
owned by such Transferee. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the owner of such 
Transferred Parcel shall not be chargeable with any omission, commission, default or delay under 
the Planning Application, the Conditions of Approval, the MND, this Agreement, or Subsequent 
Approvals regarding any other parcels making up the Property that it does not own. This provision 
to make the undertakings with respect to each parcel making up the Property severable is included 
in order to facilitate the separate ownership, financing and/or development of parcels making up 
the Property without concern for any non-compliance attributable to the acts of others. 
G. 
Processing During Third-Party Litigation. The filing of any third-party lawsuit(s) 
against City or Developer relating to this Agreement, the MND, the Planning Application, the 
Subsequent Discretionary Powers, any other development permits or approvals, or issues affecting 
the Project or the Property, shall not give cause to the City to delay or stop the development, 
processing or construction of the Project, or the exercise by the City of any of its Subsequent 
Discretionary Powers, unless such third party obtains a court order preventing the activity. City 
shall not stipulate to the issuance of any such order. 
ARTICLES 
AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION 
A. 
Amendments to Agreement (Developer and City). This Agreement may be 
amended, or cancelled in whole or in part~ at any time and from time to time by mutual consent of 
the Parties in writing, in accordance with the provisions of Government Code Section 65868 upon 
notice of intention to amend or cancel in the form required by Government Code section 65867, 
and adoption of an ordinance amending or cancelling this Agreement; provided, however, that 
following the execution of an Assumption Agreement in connection with a Transferred Parcel (as 
defined in Article 11, Section A below), this Agreement may be so amended or cancelled as it 
relates solely to such Transferred Parcel without the consent of the owners of any other parcels 
within the Property. 
B. 
Superseding State or Federal Laws. In the event that State or Federal laws or 
regulations enacted after the Execution Date prevent or preclude compliance with one or more 
provisions of this Agreement or require changes in the Planning Application, the MND, the 
Conditions of Approval or any Subsequent Approvals ("Superseding State or Federal Laws"): 
(I) such Superseding State or Federal Laws shall be treated as a Force Majeure pursuant to Article 
10, Section E below; and (2) this Agreement shall be suspended, or, with Developer's written 
11 
Q:\cityatly\Agreements\CDD- Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 24 ---
consent, modified or its Term extended as necessary to comply with such Superseding State or 
Federal Laws. Within two (2) months following the enactment of any such Superseding State or 
Federal Laws, Developer and the City shall meet and confer in good faith to determine the 
feasibility of any such modification, extension or suspension based on the effect such 
modification, extension or suspension would have on the purposes and intent of this Agreement 
and the cost to Developer of constructing and completing the Project; and if such modification, 
extension or suspension cannot be agreed upon, then Developer may terminate this Agreement on 
thirty (30-) days' notice to City. In addition, Developer shall have the right to challenge such 
Superseding State or Federal Laws, and in the event such challenge is successful, this Agreement 
shall remain unmodified and in full force and effect. 
· 
ARTICLE6 
INDEMNIFICATION 
Developer agrees to defend, indemnify, release, and hold harmless the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees, and agents, from and against any litigation, claim, action, or court 
pr_oceeding brought against any of the foregoing individuals or entities ("Indemnified Parties"), 
the purpose of which is to attack, set aside, void, or annul this Agreement. This indemnification 
shall include, but not be limited to, damages, costs, expenses, attorney fees (including 
court-awarded attorney fees), or expert witness fees that may be asserted or incurred by 
Indemnified Parties, arising out of or in connection with the approval of this Agreement. If 
Developer is required to defend Indemnified Parties in connection with any litigation, claim, 
action, or court proceeding, the City shall retain the right to approve counsel retained by Developer 
as well as any and all settlements proposed by Developer, which approval shall not be 
unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. Developer shall also have the right to approve 
any and all settlements of any such matters proposed by the City and relating to this Agreement, 
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. City agrees to 
cooperate with Developer in the defense of the claim, action, or proceeding. Nothing in this 
Article shall be construed to mean that Developer shall defend, indemnify, release, or hold 
harmless, the Indemnified Parties from any claims of personal injury, death, or property damage 
arising from, or alleged to arise from the maintenance or repair by the Indemnified Parties of 
improvements that have been offered for dedication and accepted by City, or for the Indemnified 
Parties' negligence or willful misconduct. 
ARTICLE 7 
MORTGAGEE PROTECTION AND 
ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES 
A. 
Mortgagee Protection. 
1. 
This Agreement shall be superior and senior to any lien placed now or hereafter 
upon the Property, or any portion thereof, including the lien of any Mortgage. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, no breach of this Agreement shall defeat, render invalid, diminish or impair the lien of 
any such Mortgage made in good faith and for value, but all of the terms and conditions contained 
in this Agreement shall be binding upon and effective against any person or entity that acquires 
12 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD- Planning\SPG DA 01 -18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 25 ---
(" 
title to the Property, or any portion thereof, by foreclosure, trustee's sale, deed in lieu of 
foreclosure or otherwise. 
2. 
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, no Mortgagee shall 
have any obligation or duty under this Agreement to proceed with the Project, and unless such 
Mortgagee elects to proceed with the Project it shall not be obligated to provide the Public 
Benefits, indemnify the Indemnified Parties under Article 6 above or pay any applicable 
Processing Fees or development impact fees. However, in the event that Mortgagee both (a) takes 
possession of the Property as a result of a foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure and (b) gives 
notice to the City that Mortgagee elects to proceed with the Project ("Election to Proceed"), then 
Mortgagee shall assume all the obligations imposed on Developer in connection with undertaking 
the Project, including, without limitation, the provision of Public Benefits, the indemnification of 
the Indemnified Parties under Article 6 above, and the payment of all applicable Processing Fees 
and development impact fees. Failure by Mortgagee to give notice to the City of its Election to 
Proceed within thirty (30) days of Mortgagee's taking possession of the Property as a result of a 
foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure shall constitute an Event of Default as described in 
A1iicle 9, Section A. I, in which case City shall retain the remedies against Developer set forth in 
A1iicle 9, Section A.3. 
3. 
If City receives a written notice from a Mortgagee requesting a copy of any notice 
of default given to Developer hereunder and specifying the address for service thereof, then City 
shall deliver to such Mortgagee, concurrently with service thereon to Developer, any notice of 
default or determination of noncompliance given to Developer. Each Mortgagee shall have the 
right (but not the obligation) for a period of ninety (90) days after the receipt of such notice from 
City to cure or remedy the default claimed or the areas of noncompliance set forth in City's notice. 
If such default or noncompliance is of a nature that it can only be cured or remedied by such 
Mortgagee upon obtaining possession of the Property, then such Mortgagee shall seek to obtain 
possession with diligence and continuity through a receiver or otherwise, and shall within ninety 
(90) days after obtaining possession cure or remedy such default or noncompliance. If such 
default or noncompliance cannot with diligence either be cured or remedied within such ninety-
(90-) day period, then such Mortgagee shall have such additional time as may be reasonably 
necessary to cure or remedy such default or noncompliance if such Mortgagee commences such 
cure or remedy during such ninety- (90-) day period and thereafter diligently pursues completion 
of such cure or remedy to the extent possible. 
B. 
Estoppel Certificates. Either Developer or City may, at any time, and from time to 
time, deliver written notice to the other party requesting such party to certify in writing that, to the 
actual knowledge of the certifying party: (1) this Agreement is in full force and effect and a 
binding obligation of the Parties; (2) this Agreement has not been amended or modified either 
orally or in writing (or else identifying any such amendments or modifications); (3) the requesting 
party is not in default in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement ( or else 
describing the nature and amount of any such defaults); and (4) any other factual matters 
reasonably pertaining to this Agreement, the Project and the Public Benefits as may be reasonably 
requested. A party receiving a request hereunder shall execute and return such certificate to the 
requesting party or its designee within ten (10) days following the receipt thereof. The 
certification of City may be executed on behalf of City by the City Planning Director. City 
13 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD- Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 26 ---
(~ 
acknowledges that a certificate hereunder may be relied upon by existing or prospective 
Mortgagees, existing or prospective tenants of the Property, and Transferees (as defined in Article 
11, Section A below). 
ARTICLE 8 
ANNUAL REVIEWS 
A. 
Annual Reviews. Beginning on the Effective Date, at least once every 12 months 
during the Term, Developer shall contact the City and request the scheduling of a hearing before 
the Planning Commission in order to demonstrate that Developer has sufficiently followed the 
terms of this Agreement so as to carry out the intent of the Parties in entering into it ("Good Faith 
Compliance"). The City shall provide Developer with notice of such hearing and a copy of all 
staff reports and related exhibits as soon as available, but in no event later than five (5) business 
days prior to the hearing. 
· 
B. 
Notice of Default. If either of the Parties finds evidence of default by the other 
party during the course of any such review, it shall give written notice to the other party specifying 
the nature of the default and the manner in which it may be satisfactorily cured, and the Parties 
shall have the rights set forth in Article 9 below. 
C. 
Planning Commission Determination Regarding Good Faith Compliance. If, as a 
result of any· such review, the Planning Commission determines, on the basis of substantial 
evidence, that Developer is in Good Faith Compliance, such determination shall be subject to 
appeal in accordance with the procedures set forth in Municipal Code Section 27.08.090. 
Alternatively, if, as the result of any such review, the Planning Commission determines, on the 
basis of substantial evidence, that Developer is not in Good Faith Compliance, then the Planning 
Commission shall (1) specify on the record the respects in which Developer has failed to so 
comply with this Agreement, and (2) give notice to Developer of such determination and 
specification pursuant to A1iicle 12 below, which notice shall serve as written notice by City to 
Developer of a default pursuant to Article 9, Section A. I below. 
D. 
Planning Commission Determination Regarding a Health or Safety Danger. If, as a 
result of any such review, the Planning Commission determines, on the basis of substantial 
evidence, that, subject to Article 3, Section B and Article 4 above, there exists a Health or Safety 
Danger, then the Planning Commission shall (1) specify on the record the factual basis for finding 
such Health or Safety Danger, (2) give notice to Developer of such determination and specification 
pursuant to Article 12 below, and (3) make recommendations to the City Council regarding 
modifications to or termination of this Agreement. 
E. 
Action by City Council. In the event that either (1) an Event of Default arises 
pursuant to Article 9, Section Al below, or (2) the Planning Commission makes 
recommendations to the City Council regarding modifications to or termination of this Agreement 
pursuant to Section D abov_e regarding a Health or Safety Danger, the City Council shall hold a 
public hearing to consider terminating or modifying this Agreement. Notice of such hearing shall 
be given as set forth in Section 6 of the Development Agreement Resolution. If the City Council 
determines, on the basis of substantial evidence, that Developer is not in Good Faith Compliance, 
14 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA O 1-18-11 FrNAL.rtf

--- page 27 ---
( "' 
\ 
or that a Health or Safety Danger exists, then the City Council may terminate or, with Developer's 
written consent and in accordance with Article 5, Section A above, modify this Agreement. At 
such hearing City shall demonstrate on the record the grounds and basis on which it claims the 
right to terminate this Agreement, if any. Any challenge to the City's termination of this · 
Agreement on account of a Health or Safety Danger shall be subject to review in the Superior 
Court of the County of San Mateo. 
ARTICLE 9 
DEFAULT; REMEDIES; TERMINATION 
A. 
Events of Default and Remedies. 
1. 
Events of Default. Subject to any extensions of tinie by mutual written consent of 
the Parties, and subject to the provisions of Article 8, Section E above regarding Good Faith 
Compliance, and Article 9, Section A.2 below regarding Force Majeure, any failure by either party 
to perform any material terms or provision of this Agreement (including any failure to comply in 
good faith with the terms of this Agreement) shall constitute an event of default (an "Event of 
Default"): (a) if such defaulting party does not cure such failure within sixty (60) days after 
receiving written notice of default from the other party, where such failure is of a nature that can be 
cured within such sixty- ( 60-) day period; or (b) if such failure is not of a nature that can be cured 
within such sixty- (60-) day period, the defaulting party does not within such sixty- (60-) day 
period commence substantial efforts to cure such failure, or thereafter does not prosecute to 
completion with diligence and continuity the curing of such failure. 
2. 
Enforced Delay Extension of Time of Performance. No party shall be deemed to be 
in default or noncompliance under this Agreement, or suffer a termination of this Agreement ( or 
any rights hereunder), where the alleged default, noncompliance, or terminating event or delay is 
due to any Force Majeure, as described in Article 10, Section E hereof. If written notice of any 
such default, noncompliance, or terminating event or delay is given to either party within thirty 
(30) days after the commencement thereof, an extension of time for such cause will be granted for 
the period of the enforced default, noncompliance, or terminating event or delay, or longer if the 
Parties mutually agree. 
3. 
Remedies. If an Event of Default occurs, the nondefaulting party may not exercise 
any rights or remedies unless and until it has first requested in writing that the Parties schedule a 
meeting to occur before a neutral mediator to attempt to mediate and resolve the dispute. Within 
ten ( I 0) days after expiration of the sixty- ( 60-) day cure period provided in Article 9, Section A.1 
above, the nondefaulting party shall submit: (a) a list of three neutral mediators, each of whom 
must have at least five (5) years experience with performance under development agreements 
made and entered into in the State of California pursuant to the Development Agreement Statutes; 
(b) and dates the mediators are available at the time it requests the meeting. Within ten (10) days 
ofreceiving such list, the defaulting party shall select one neutral mediator from the list provided. 
If the dispute is not re$olved within sixty (60) days after the nondefaulting party has requested a 
meeting, and the nondefaulting party has provided at least three (3) available business days for 
such a meeting at which its own representative and the neutral mediator are available at a location 
within the City of San Mateo, regardless of whether the Parties have actually met to mediate the 
15 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 28 ---
<" 
\ 
dispute, the nondefaulting party shall have the right to (a) bring any proceeding in the nature of 
specific performance, injunctive relief, declaratory relief or mandamus, and/or (b) bring any actiol) 
at law or in equity to compensate the nondefaulting party for all the detriment proximately caused 
by the defaulting party's Event of Default; provided, however, that (x) Developer's sole remedy 
shall be specific performance and Developer shall not have the right to recover monetary damages 
(compensatory, consequential or punitive) against City other than attorneys' fees to the extent 
provided in Article I 0, Section I below, and (y) City's sole remedies, other than attorneys' fees to 
the extent provided in Article 10, Section I below, shall be specific performance of Developer's 
obligation to provide the Public Benefits as specified herein or the right to receive and retain the 
Public Benefits in the dollar amounts set forth in Exhibit B of this Agreement and specified in 
Article 3, Section B.l(b)-(d) as liquidated and agreed upon monetary damages. In addition, the 
non-defaulting party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Article 9, Section B below, but any such termination shall not affect such 
party's right to seek any remedy permitted by this Agreement on account of the Event of Default 
for which this Agreement has been terminated. 
B. 
Termination. If either party determines that it has the right pursuant to Article 9, 
Section A.3 above to terminate this Agreement as it relates to all or a portion of the Property or 
Project and elects to exercise that right, then it shall give written notice thereof to the other party 
pursuant to Article 12 below. If City is the party that delivers any such termination notice, the City 
Council shall hold a public hearing to consider terminating this Agreement. Notice of such 
hearing shall be given as set forth in Section 6 of the Development Agreement Resolution. At such 
hearing City shall demonstrate on the record the grounds and basis on which it claims the right to 
terminate this Agreement. Upon conclusion of such public hearing, the City Council shall direct 
the City Manager of the City or his or her designee (the "City Manager") to take whatever action 
the City Council deems necessary or appropriate in connection with City's termination notice, 
including terminating this Agreement. If Developer is the party that delivers any such termination 
notice, then this Agreement shall automatically terminate upon such delivery. The provisions of 
this Article 9, Section B, shall not be construed so as to place additional noticing requirements 
upon the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Article 8, Section D above, or Developer's 
freeing itself from further obligations pursuant to Article 11, Section B below. · 
C. 
Judicial Proceeding to Challenge Termination. Any challenge to a party's 
termination of this Agreement on account of an Event of Default by the other party shall be subject 
to review in the Superior Court of the County of San Mateo. 
D. 
No Cross-Default. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, 
following the execution of an Assumption Agreement in connection with a Transferred Parcel ( as 
defined in Article 11, Section A below), the owner of such Transferred Parcel shall not be 
chargeable with any other parcel owner's non-compliance with the Planning Application, the 
MND, the Conditions of Approval, this Agreement or the Subsequent Approvals, and City shall 
have no recourse under this Article 9 or otherwise against any such non-defaulting owner and no 
right under this Article 9 to terminate or modify this Agreement as it relates to any parcel of the 
Property, and any portion of the Project thereon, owned by any such non-defaulting developer. 
This provision to make the undertakings with respect to each parcel making up the Property 
severable is included in order to facilitate the separate ownership, financing and/or development of 
16 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 29 ---
( 
\ 
portions of the Property without concern for any so-called cross-default attributable to the acts of 
others. 
ARTICLE 10 
MISCELLANEOUS 
A. 
Enforceability. Except as otherwise provided herein, the rights of the Parties under 
this Agreement shall be enforceable notwithstanding any change subsequent to the Execution Date 
in any applicable City Laws. 
B. 
Default by Developer: Withholding of Building Permits. City may, at its 
discretion, refuse to issue a building permit for any Project-related structure within the 
geographical confines of the Property as the same is defined at the time of said application, if 
Developer has failed and refuses to complete any requirement enumerated therefor in accordance 
with the terms of this Agreement. No building permh shall be issued or building permit 
application accepted for the building shell of any structure on the Property if the permit applicant 
owns or controls any property subject to this Agreement, and if such applicant or any entity or 
person controlling such applicant is in default of the terms and conditions of this Agreement as 
determined pursuant to Articles 8 or 9 above; provided, however, that following the execution of 
an Assumption Agreement in connection with a Transferred Parcel (as defined in Article 11, 
Section A below), the owner of such Transferred Parcel shall not be chargeable with any other 
parcel owner's non-compliance with the Planning Application, the MND, the Conditions of 
Approval, this Agreement or the Subsequent Approvals, and the City shall have no recourse under 
this Section B against such non-defaulting Transferee by delaying or refusing to accept, process or 
approve a building permit application for such Transferred Parcel. This provision to make the 
undertakings with respect to each parcel making up the Property severable is included in order to 
facilitate the separate ownership, financing and/or development of portions of the Property without 
concern for any so-called cross-default attributable to the acts of others. 
C. 
Covenan1s·Run with the Land. The provisions of this Agreement shall constitute 
covenants which shall runwith the land comprising the Property. The burdens and benefits hereof 
shall bind and inure to the benefit of all successors in interest and permitted assigns to the Parties 
hereto. 
· D. 
No Waiver. No failure, delay or omission by a party in exercising or asserting any 
right, power or remedy l1ereunder shall impair such right, power or remedy, and no failure, delay 
or omission by a party occurring upon the other party's noncompliance with or failure to perform 
the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be construed as a waiver thereof. A waiver by 
either party of any failure on the part of the other party to perform any of the terms or conditions to 
be performed by such other party shall not be construed as a waiver of any succeeding failure of 
the same or other terms or conditions hereof, nor shall any failure, delay or omission by a party in 
asserting any of its rights or remedies hereunder deprive such party of its right to institute and 
maintain any action or proceeding which it may deem necessary to protect, assert or enforce any 
such rights or remedies. 
17 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 30 ---
( ' 
' 
E. 
Force Majeure. In the event any party to this Agreement is unable to perform or 
fulfill any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement on account ofacts of God, enemy action, 
terrorism, war, insurrection, strikes, labor disputes, unavailability of labor or materials, walk-outs, 
riots, governmental actions or restrictions (including, without limitation, Superseding State or 
Federal Laws), administrative appeals or legal actions, judicial orders, third-party actions, floods, 
earthquakes, fires, casualties, unusually inclement weather of a magnitude in excess of seasonally 
anticipated conditions for the subject climate and time of year, any condition caused by the other 
party, or similar basis for excused performance which is not within the reasonable control of the 
party to be excused ("Force Majeure"), the party obligated to so perform or prevented from 
performing thereby shall be excused from said performance until such time as said party shall no 
longer be prevented from performing on account of any such Force Majeure, and the Term shall be 
extended automatically for a period of time equal to that of such Force Majeure. 
· 
F. 
No Joint Venture or Partnership. Nothing contained herein or in any document 
. executed in connection herewith shall be construed as making City and Developer joint venturers 
or partners, or render either party liable for any obligations of the other. 
G. 
Applicable Law and Venue. This Agreement shall be co?strued and enforced in 
accordance with the laws of the State of California. In the event of litigation, venue will be in the 
County of San Mateo. 
H. 
Severability. If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this Agreement is 
held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remaining 
provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. 
I. 
Attorneys' Fees. Reasonable attorney fees shall be recoverable as costs (by the 
filing of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement. 
J. 
Incorporation of Recitals and Exhibits. Each of the following exhibits attached 
hereto, as well as the recitals set forth above, are incorporated herein by this reference and made a 
part hereof for all purposes: 
Exhibit A 
Exhibit B 
Exhibit C 
Exhibit D 
Exhibit E 
Property Description 
Timing of Public Benefits 
Multi-Use Path Plan and Complete Street Diagrams 
19
111 A venue Park Trees Plan 
Form of Assumption Agreement 
18 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DAO 1-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 31 ---
ARTICLE 11 
ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER 
A. 
Assignment and Transfer. At any time during the Term, Developer and its 
successors-in-interest shall have the right to sell, assign or transfer all or a portion of its rights, title 
and interests in the Property and/or this Agreement (a "Transfer") to any person or entity (a 
"Transferee"). The Parties acknowledge that transfer of any portion of the Property that is less 
than the entire Property would require subdivision approval by the City, and such portion so 
transferred constitutes a "Transferred Parcel." Except in regard to Transfers to Pre-Approved 
Transferees (which does not require any consent by the City as provided in Section B below), prior 
to consummating any Transfer, Developer shall obtain from the City Manager written consent to 
the Transfer, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned. The City 
Manager shall respond in writing to Developer's written request for any such written consent 
within ten (10) business days after the City's receipt thereof in accordance with Article 12 below. 
Developer's written request shall provide reasonably sufficient detail and any non-confidential, 
non-proprietary supporting evidence necessary for the City Manager to consider and respond to 
Developer's request. Any failure by the City Manager to respond within the ten- (10-) business 
day period, as well as any decision by the City Manager to withhold, delay or condition consent to 
any Transfer, shall be promptly reviewed by the City Council in accordance with the appeal 
provisions set forth in San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.08.090. 
B. 
Pre-Approved Transferees. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the 
contrary, the following Transferees constitute "Pre-Approved Transferees," for which no City 
consent shall be required: 
1. 
An entity owned or controlled by Developer or Edward B. Lipkin; 
2. 
Any Transferee that certifies that either: (a) The Transferee or its affiliates (i) have 
the financial resources necessary to develop or complete development of the Transferred Parcel, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Conditions of Approval, (ii) 
have experience and expertise in developing projects similar in size and scope to that portion of the 
Project planned to occur at the Transferred Parcel, and (iii) are not involved in litigation with the 
City relating to any other development project; or (b) it is acquiring the Transferred Parcel for the 
purpose of occupying a majority of the rentable area thereof upon completion for its own use or the 
use of its affiliates; and 
3. 
A Mortgagee or any designee of a Mortgagee. 
C. 
Assumption and Release. Without the requirement of any public hearing, 
Developer or its successors-in-interest may free themselves from their obligations relating to the 
Prope11y or to a Transferred Parcel, provided that the Transferee expressly assumes such 
obligations and agrees to be bound by the other terms and conditions respecting the Property or 
such Transferred Parcel under this Agreement, by way of an assignment and assumption 
agreement (an "Assumption Agreement"), materially in the form of Exhibit D attached hereto (or 
such other written agreement reasonably acceptable to the City), executed by and between the 
19 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA O 1-18-11 FINAL.rt[

--- page 32 ---
City, Developer and such Transferee. With respect to a Transfer of a Transferred Parcel, to the 
extent that Developer's obligations under this Agreement are not clearly allocated or attributed to 
such Transferred Parcel, such allocation or attribution shall be made in the Assumption 
Agreement. Upon delivery by Developer to City of any proposed Assumption Agreement, the 
City Council shall consider such Assumption Agreement on its consent agenda no later than at its 
next regularly scheduled meeting, provided such meeting occurs no sooner than within five (5) 
business days. Within three (3) business days after approval by the City Council of any 
Assumption Agreement, City Manager shall execute and return such Assumption Agreement to 
Developer. Upon the full execution of an Assumption Agreement, the Transferee shall thenceforth 
be deemed to be the "Developer" hereunder with respect to the Property or the Transferred Parcel. 
ARTICLE 12 
NOTICES 
Any notice or communication hereunder must be in writing and may be given either by 
personal service or by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid. Any notice or communication 
personally served shall be deemed given and received on the date of personal service ( evidenced 
by signed receipt) on the party noticed at the appropriate address designated below, and any notice 
or communication sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, properly addressed 
to the appropriate address designated below, with postage prepaid, shall be deemed given and 
received on the date ofreceipt, as evidenced by the return receipt card. Any party hereto may at 
any time and from time to time, in the manner provided herein, designate any other address in 
substitution of the address to which such notice or communication shall be given. All such notices 
or communications shall be given to the Parties to their addresses hereinafter set forth: 
IF TO CITY: 
City Clerk, City of San Mateo 
City Hall 
330 West 20
111 Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
AT1N: Director of Community Development 
WITH A COPY TO: 
City Attorney 
330 West 20th A venue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
AT1N: City Attorney 
IF TO DEVELOPER: 
ARJAX Railroad Associates II, LLC 
c/o EBL&S Development, LLC 
230 South Broad St. Mezzanine Floor 
Philadelphia, PA 19102-4101 
AT1N: Edward B. Lipkin 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 FINAL.rtf 
20

--- page 33 ---
WITH A COPY TO: 
Goulston & Storrs, a Professional Corporation 
400 Atlantic A venue 
Boston, MA 02110 
ATTN: Jared J. Eigerman, Esq. 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS} 
21 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD- Planning\SPG DA 01-18-11 FINAL.rtf

--- page 34 ---
. (" 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement was executed by the Parties thereto on the dates. 
set forth below: 
[SIGNATURES MUST BE NOTARIZED FOR RECORDED DOCUMENT] 
. 
. 
DEVELOPER: 
~ a.a I I 
ARJAX RAILR 
D ASSOCIATES II, LLC, 
a Delaware Iimite liability company 
By: 
ARDMORE PA RAILROAD ASSOCIATES, LLC, 
..,,._...., ... ,.ware limited liability company, its Sole Member 
CITY: 
By: Edward B. Lipkin 
Its: President 
Dated: _f=.e_e~&_.---'-U---=--.__• 'ZD.c..___,,_lJ_ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, 
a California municipal corporation 
ATTEST 
' 
r-Jor~rn: Gymzz, City Clerk 
Q:\cityatty\Agreements\CDD - Planning\SPG DA O 1-18-11 FINAL.rtf 
y: Shawn Mason, City Attorney 
22

--- page 35 ---
CALIFORNIA ALL-PURPOSE ACKNOWLEDGMENT ~~ 
State of California 
} 
County of ,S ~ 
tJ\ o)-e_,"O 
On 
dlJ-t-f- t d"-Q l) 
before me, _.....-.--
_\ _o_n_·1_ L_. ~...,..,--,·___,...,.t'.1\.,,-t---c=,-l---,-'µ.,..-o=t_a..,_v __ 
vvt.hftA 
__ 
'_c , 
Date 
-. 
M 
~ \-+Lew ;
e Insert Na e and Tille of the Officer 
personally appeared ---------
=-_ _:::J'._'.2,:::..:::::($~ ~ ~.:::....'._:__:_~~_.::~-,-~:::::::========= ====--
Name(sl of Signer(s) 
1• a:.• a a a •,~~1 ~- ,0 ~ ;A;~ o o 'f 
@ 
Commission # 1779779 
~ 
Notary Publlc - Callfornla J 
j 
San Mateo County i 
,... 
MyComm.ExpkesDec9,2011 
••••••• a 
a C C C C 
a 
Place Notary Seal Above 
who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to 
be the personM whose name~@Z.are-subscribed to the 
within instrument and acknowledged to me that 
~
ey..executed the same in~ 
authorized 
capacity(-ies}, and that bY. i 
· signature{,q on the 
instrument the person 
, or the entity upon behalf of 
which the person~ acted, executed the instrument. 
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws 
of the State of California that the foregoing paragraph is 
true and correct. 
WITNESS ~nd 
_off~
I. , 
Signature UIJJvvU k:fLf ~ 
Signature of Nolary Publtc('°~ 
OPTIONAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Though the information below is not required by law, it may prove valuable to persons relying on the document 
and could prevent fraudulent removal and reattachment of this form to another document. 
Description of Attached Document 
Title or Type of Document:--------------------------------
Document Date: ____________________ Number of Pages: ________ _ 
Signer(s) Other Than Named Above: 
Capacity(ies) Claimed by Signer(s) 
Signer's Name: _____________ _ 
D Individual 
D Corporate Officer -
Title(s): 
D Partner -
D Limited D General 
D Attorney in Fact 
D Trustee 
D Guardian or Conservator 
D Other: ________ _ 
Signer Is Representing: ____ _ 
RIGHT THUMBPRINT 
OF SIGNER 
Top of thumb here 
Signer's Name: ______________ _ 
D Individual 
D Corporate Officer -
Title(s): ________ _ 
D Partner -
D Limited D General 
D Attorney in Fact 
D Trustee 
D Guardian or Conservator 
D Other: __________ _ 
Signer Is Representing: ____ _ 
RIGHT THUMBPRINT 
OF SIGNER 
Top of thumb here 
~~'§<ii@;.'™'™~'@"™~~ 
© 2007 National Notary Association• 9350 De Soto Ave., P.O. Box 2402 • Chatsworth, CA 91313-2402 • www.NationalNotary.org Item #5907 Reorder: Call Toll-Free 1-800-876-6827

--- page 36 ---
. ' ' 
COMMONWEAL TH OF PENNSYLVANIA 
COUNTY OF PHILADELPHIA 
On this /5,t;hday of February, 2011, before me, a Notary Public in and for the 
Commonwealth and County aforesaid, the undersigned officer, personally appeared Edward B. 
Lipkin, who acknowledged himself to be the President of Ardmore PA Railroad Associates, 
LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, the sole Member of ARJAX Railroad Associates II, 
LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and that he as such President, being authorized to do 
so, executed the foregoing instrument on behalf of Ardmore PA Railroad Associates, LLC, on 
behalf of ARJAX Railroad Associates II, LLC for the purposes therein contained. 
WITNESS my hand and official seal in the above County and Commonwealth. 
My Commission Expires: ~~/ 
\ \ •'' 
COMMONWEAL TH OF PENNSYLVANIA 
,-
NOTARIAL SEAL 
I' Margaret M. Carney, Notary Public 
I City of Philadelphia, Philadelphia County 
, 1\ioy commi:·,ion expires Febrn2ry 22, 2011 
'. - ~-...,. ........... ---~- ----~·---

--- page 37 ---
r 
EXHIBIT A 
PROPERTY DESCRIPTION 
Parcel A: 
A!.L 11-11,i ::·r.H'JJJN ii[ AL flOP[ i'.lY snu1,rr: IN mr. C:ITY OT SM~ IJA1CO, CO!INTY OF f,AIJ w,1r.o, !il.\Tf. or ,./11,lfl'PRNII~ [}l\~r.RJ!JW Ki 
FO:.U:tll'S: 
PJ.RCEL 1, ;.;?, :SHO'IIN ON lH:.T CERTAIN PARCEL MAO Emm.::o, ·')>,r,RCEL ti.AP NO. !IJ BEING A R:;SIJ30MSION '.)F 1HE PROPEtlIIES OF 
CONC/,1! ll>INCJJ :.Nn ENil'RPRISW. 11/C,, 5/\t,' MATJ:0, CAUff)llNJ/,, IJEJI((; A POJmnN OF PARCEi. 'a' A!i RlillORor.m IN l'MlCEl IJAI' 1100K 
IO AT PAG:c 11, OFFICI.\L R:'.CORDS OF So\N IJATEO COtJNTY. BEING ALSO A PORTION OF THE LANDS cmNEYED TO CONC~R RANCH 
i:1m:rH1RISI:$, INC., ElY fll:Cll RCC:OROEll 11' V0!.11.\1[; .:12'1!1 .OF OFflCll,J.. 11r:co1ms 0:r (i,\Jl I/All;(} COIJl,,'lY AT PAGC: 703'', Will()I! !;1Jp 
?J.RCEL MAP '/11,S l'E CORD::t- JUNE lJ, 1073 IN PARG:L MAP BOOK 21 AT PAGE B JIJ l}(E OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF "fHS COUNTY 
OT SAN IIAIEO, smn: or c,11.1ronNIII. 
::XCF.PTING '11-IEfll'l'Rot/., t,\.l, "IHAT Prlf/11(111 or lJ,IE tl:(llf]N 0(;.5(:mm,n r•Jl()Pr.Jr!Y m;scmrm, IN mr; Pl:W FHOll ::m;CAR wn:RPHJ5r:s. 
lt,C .. TO lHE CITY OF SIi,~ .\f/,TEO. D1\TE!l IA.~'r' JO, Hi7•1 ,\ND RECORDED AUGUS1 28, 1\17•1 IN BOOK G08B. PAGE 133 (77'194-A>\), 
n•n::1~1, nt:r:(i11m;. 
· 
nJRTH!iil EXCUPnNo lM;;Tif;Fll()IJ, J.1.t. 1111,T POililON or rnrr Mlm:.JN l)f;:,r,m m:n PllO?f,RTY D!aSGRillr:D IN 11 IE ;Jf, r.l) FROM CON,::;AR 
::tlTERl'JllSES, INC., ~- CALIFORNIA CORPOR,,.TION, FORl.!rnLY KNOWN AS COtlC.~R RANCH AND EtlTEl!PRISES, INC., A C:.LIFORNIA 
CORPORl,TION. TO THr: ClfJ' or $1.N ~~rn:o, OATITD PT::CITMDJ:R 1. ;mo I, RECOllDEO l'Qlfllll<•l\' 6, 2ClOJ, IINOi:11 51rlll:::r. NO. 7.00;}-
029396, OFFICl•L RECORDS. 
. 
Parcel B: 
B;::GINN!Nf, AT ./1 ?OINT Olf THE CEMERUNE Or SOUTH DEU1WARE STREG, t.:S SHOWN ON Tt·i.l,T CERTAll·l 
t.lAP ENrlTLED -t,JINCTEENTH .AVENtE PARK Uh'IT NO. ·1", V/HlCH MAP WAS FILED IN T.-lE OFFICE OF 
THE RECOi<DEr~ OT Tr!E cour,!l'Y Of S/,N MAITO, SIAT[ Of CALlfORtilA OM APRIL 6, 1955 IN BOOK 42, 
PA.GE$ l, 2, 3 /\ND 4, OF Mt1PS, SAID POll'T OF B.EGINNING Bi:ING M,I\Rl<£D ON THE GROUND BY 1\N 
IRON PIPE MONUI.ENT str IN /, l-"./1ND HOLE A.f THE rmERSECHON OF Sl',10 CENTERLINE wrrH THE 
c ~111: ::1~ur~t OF 'li'I!: ALL.l::Y !ll:'."!'111:'.l!N EJL0tK5 6 AND 7, i\S Sr lO'iM ON SAIL• MAP; 'fl-!l!NCi:'.. r lWM SND 
POltff OF BEGJNNIN{; NOsr<fHWE...<rrERLY /1LONG THE CENTERLINE OF SOUTH Di:V,W/IRE STREET, AS SHOWt~ 
ON S1\ID W1P ON TH E /1RC OF A CURVE TO THE .. F.FT, H/\ViNG A RAl)IUS Oi' 1000 t-"EEI ANl) A C2:Ni RA: .. 
. ~.NGL::c OF 1'46'33", AN ARC DIS'l;l!-.NCE ot 30.9B i""!:.El ; 'fHENCt'.: CON"iHWING ALOr..JG $AJD C£NT£RUNE 
NORTH ,11·2a· WESr, 30.88 FEET TO 1\ POMT THEREON; THENCE LE>WING SAID CEi'ffERLINE OF SOUTH 
na .NNJ,RE S'TRF.ET sour:-; 48\ !2' Wf.Sl, '10.00 FF.ET TO THF. TRUE POl/,ff OF B~:GIMNING, ,.-oR THE 
PARCEL 'W BE D25Cii1BE:D HE:Ri::IN: 
, HENCE FROM SAIP iRl.JE POINT OF FH:GINHING, 
SOU'l&i 41'28' EAST, 21 .51 FEET: THENC[ TANGENT iO THE PH£C£DING COURSE ON TH:: ARC OF 
/1 CURVE TO THE RIGHT li/•,ViNG ,\ RAOIUS OF 15.00 fEET AND I\ CENTRN ... /INGLE Of 9-3'•10'17", 
111-l 1\RC P!S7/ll~t":E: OF 2?.5:2 FEF.T TO .h. l,lh1E ?ARAU.El WITH AMD .D!ST/11-,'T 37.Q{'; i"EET l~QRiHWESTERl.Y, 
M!:ASUl~ED Al HIGHr /..NGL£S mm;; Hie: ~OP" ml£ oi:- !HE bE:'.P.t.,Hi MEtn OF ?UBUC WORKS SURVl:Y 
FOR T!-iE ST/1TE FREE\1/t,Y IN THE CITY {JF Sl•,N M1\T[ O, ROl'J) rv-SN-l 05-SM; THENGE T1\NGENT TO 
THE PREC::OING CURVE NID SOUTHW::STERLY ALONG Sl,,ID PARALLEi. WE SOI.Ji H 52' 1.2' 17'' WE5!. 
; 25.05 FEET; THENCE LEl11/1NC SAID PN~ALLEL Llt~E NORTH 41·25• W£ST, 163.5.2 FEET; THENCE 
NORTH 5?."37' F./..ST, 14i.11 Ff.f.T TO A POINT ON THF. NORTHWEST:::.RtY I.INf. OF SAID SOUTH 
DELA.WAl~E STRl::Cf'; THENCE SOlff'HD.STERLY .lo.LONG THE NORTl-l'\1/1:':STEHLY LINE OF SAJD STHECr 
SOtJT.-1 
~ 1'28' EAST, 1.25.00 ;=-[ET TC THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING. 
Exhibit A - 1 
2017326-14

--- page 38 ---
,...., 
( 
EXHIBITB 
TIMING OF PUBLIC BENEFITS 
1. The later of (a) expiration of all statutes of limitation applicable to any Covered 
Actions, and (b) final resolution of all Covered Actions, if any, such that the Project 
may proceed: 
A. Grant of surface easement for purposes of a Class I bike facility and 
landscaping, along the southeasterly frontage of the Property with Concar 
Drive (the "Multi-Use Path"), in substantial conformity with the plan attached 
hereto as part of Exhibit C, which shall be constructed either as part of the 
Project or as a separate bid package independent of the Project. In all cases, the 
costs for construction and maintenance of the Multi-Use Path shall be the City's 
sole responsibility. 
· 
2. The later of (a) six (6) months after the Execution Date, and (b) final resolution of all 
Covered Actions, if any, such that the Project may proceed: 
A. Contribution by Developer to City of $100,000 to help fund or reimburse the 
City for (i) a residual flooding preliminary engineering study of the immediate 
area around the Property (the "Flood Studies"); (ii) planning for the Hayward 
Park Station Area; and/or (iii) pedestrian and bicycle improvements in the 
immediate area. 
3. The later of (a) eighteen (18) months after Execution Date, and (b) final resolution of 
all Covered Actions, if any, such that the Project may proceed: 
A. Contribution by Developer to City of $100,000 to help fund or reimburse the 
City for (i) the Flood Studies; (ii) planning for the Hayward Park Station Area; 
and/or (iii) pedestrian and bicycle improvements in the immediate area. 
4. No later than upon demolition of the existing Kmart building at the Property in 
furtherance of the Project: 
A. Contribution by Developer to City of $627,000 to help fund or reimburse the 
City for the design and construction of that portion of the Complete Street 
project along the South Delaware frontage of the Property, as further described 
in the Specific Plan and Design Guidelines, and in substantial conformity with 
the diagrams attached hereto as part of Exhibit C. 
B. Contribution by Developer of $60,000 to help fund, or to reimburse the City 
for, the planting and two (2) years of maintenance for trees in the 19th A venue 
Exhibit B - 1 
2017326-14

--- page 39 ---
' 
' 
r 
Park neighborhood in substantial conformity with the plan attached hereto as 
ExhibitD. 
5. No later than upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the first building at the 
first of the following Blocks to be developed: MU-1, MU-2 and MU-3. 
A. Relocation underground of existing utility lines within the public right-of-way 
of Concar Drive along the frontage of the Property in conjunction with initial 
site grading of Blocks MU-1, MU-2 and MU-3. 
6. No later than upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the first building at the 
third of the following Blocks to be developed: MU-1, MU-2 and MU-3. 
A. Development, operation and maintenance of a community room of at least 
3,000 square feet within Block MU-1, MU-2 or MU-3, available to the 
members of the San Mateo community free of charge by reservation and 
subject to availability. 
Exhibit B - 2 
2017326-14

--- page 40 ---
' 
' 
EXHIBITC 
MULTI-USE PATH PLAN AND COMPLETE STREETS DIAGRAMS 
[ATTACHED BEHIND] 
Exhibit C - 1 
20 l 7326-+ol4

--- page 41 ---
i:s.::,JI l.······ 
;/ [::·:.·:~: 
, .... ii.·· 
I ~i\./ 
;, .... ·· 
!:.-~~ t··:./ 
''~;~}:11 ·;:~ ~t~ 
..... 
-:::::_~v·1 
·:~~·::< 
~·-J 
:::~}~·:  
\J\~:~ \)ff 
i:J 3lt~
.l 
~ j 
·-~ ··, .. 
0r 
,.,, .... -
.,· ...... 
... :··' 
.,···· 
,···· 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ ._, 
\1--.. 
1\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
I 
'"\ \\ 
I i 
I ,I 
· ,., 
.... 
..  . 
,---~~-
-... , 
~ 
-~ 
--::~:! 
-~ I -~~-i 
...____---==:~ 
-
.... .. 
~ 
=----;--i-- -.. ~- .. 
..:::---. ·r,;· E:""'1!' I: .. -, 
·:,;/;t~~~~~r::-~ -
~~'· 
:-:.-----~ 
t:°;..:) 
. "4:;~'..~:~~~::·· ::--- -)l. ..... 
1 
·-.. ~- -, 
~""'--.::. .. ::··
~ 
·-.... ~
! -
• """"-'~ 
•• 
•• 
~ 
r.,"'1,, 1'::, 
NOTE: 
1, TOPOGRAPHIC INFORUATklN, smEET RIGHT-OF.WAY ANOIOR PROPERTYUNE ARE SHOWN ILWSTRATIVELY. 
2. EXISTING RINIMOTH IS APPRDXIUATE. AS lWO DISCRETE SURVEYS HAVE BEEN OVERLAID TO CREATE THIS EXHIBIT 
3. 2-fEET ZONE IS TO PROVlOE CLEARANCE FROU THE BUILDING TO UULTHJSE PATIi PER AASITTO'S BICYCLES GUIDE 
RECDIAMENDATION. RETAILOOORSSHOUlO OPENINWAROS 
' 
Vor 
2· to e· 
-,.,_:\.,, ..... 
A~rox. 
<E> l~V 
re 
12
. [
20 
•• lrc 
,._,,. 
lf'C 
I 
Ir ,. 
I ~ 
,:::, 'S:r~ 
SECTION A 
NT 
r---___,......c:' 
,, 
I 
... ~~~ 
·-•. r 
! 
I /. c'.rll 
I 
\ 
i 
I 
\1\I! \'\\ r~r-
·\1,., / :I• 
\ 
\, ,;t \1 U \ 
L-
\ I / , A: JI >,,=!·~=- r 
I ·1 I ,~-n1 !\ 
t• 
r-1.l-' 
111 \\ u ·- 1 
\_·\ i I \\ii, i\ 
I,, 
i I 
\I it'%-~ 
'VO I'\ i' 
I , ;, ' ~ 
,\ 
~ • .-Ji----
:er. 
f .,. I 
' ·r I t 
I 
·" .... 
'l~ex-
Apr-ex. 
BLDG I 
RN 
.. _,, __ 
··~-
~ 
~ 
15
,_,,.Lmlslt 
re 
12.t
12.I
12.I
12.I
12.I
12.~'c 
J' 
/---.,, 
~ 
~, 
6'·111' -l ~ 2'·9Jl' 
-i r- 1·-111· 
ra.f'f'l~ra.f'FI 
ra.f'fl Tra.f'fl Tro.f'fi 
ro.f'f'i, 
8TATION PARK 
GREEN 
La.n~ 
La.ne-
~11n~ 
Lo.ne 
Lane 
La~: 
5.5' Landscape Area. 
SECTION B 
NT 
:lml = -
-I - I_, I -
I ii_ 
PRELIMINARY 
FOR DISCUSSION 
ONLY 
~ 
Dmra & Mtff.cae Pd'I EJNbtt 
/ ,.

--- page 42 ---
. . . . , r---.,--___.:..__....:.._7( ~-;-) ____ ....:.._~======r:============ 
' 
I • f 
tu 
w 
er 
I--
en 
w 
er 
4'. 
~ 
..J 
w 
0 
-.,.J• •-
~:::::::=::::'.~=====:::::...JI 
~=======] b] i 
I 
,,----------'--..ll-----
P c:J 
~-- - - -- - - -==;"TT. 
z 
0 
>-ci.i 
0::(/) 
<(:) 
zo 
-Cl) 
~-
-o 
mc:r:~ 
c:r:oz 
o.u.O 
I 
! I 
I I 
·~' .. 
11 
• I

--- page 43 ---
I 
I 
I 
, 
C 
EXHIBIT D 
19TH A VENUE PARK TREES PLAN 
[ATTACHED BEHIND] 
Exhibit D - 1 
2017326--Wl4

--- page 44 ---
MEMORANDUM 
DATE: 
TO: 
FROM: 
REGARDING: 
May 5, 2009 
Lisa Ring, City of San Mateo 
ARJAX Railroad Associates II, LLC 
"Station Park Green" - Public Benefit for 19th Avenue Park 
The 19th A venue Street Trees Program offered to residents of 19th A venue Park as part of Station 
Park <;:rreen' s public benefit, as outlined in. the corresponding development agreement, is 
intended to both enhance the streets within the 19th A venue · Park neighborhood, as well as 
improve design continuity between two adjacent neighborhoods . The benefit project is briefly 
described below. . 
Tree Sizes and Species: The City's Arborist and the Developer's landscape architect will select 
the range of trees offered as part of the benefit. Trees will be of the same size and species as 
other tress planted at Station Park Green. Their boxes will be, at minimum, twenty-four inches 
(24~'). Trees will be planted on private property according to a design ·completed by the 
Developer's landscape architect. 
The following tree species have been reviewed and approved by the City's Arborist, Dennis 
Pawl: 
Sycamore or London Plane Tree (Platanus acerifolia) 
Southern Live Oak (Quercus virginiana) 
Ulmus parvifolia (Chinese Elm) 
Ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba) 
fu the event that residents request smaller, flowering tress, the following has been suggested and 
approved: 
Tulip Tree or Deciduous Magnolia (Magnolia soulangeana) 
Project Boundaries: This benefit is intended to serve the residents of 19th A venue Park, and 
therefore the neighborhood association's boundaries are (we believe) those outlined below. The 
Deveioper intends to offer the public benefit of street trees only within the 4epicted outlined 
area. 
1

--- page 45 ---
Tree Quantity and Placement: The developer estimates the outer threshold of trees planted to be three 
hundred (300). Exact placement of trees must be determined by a landscape architect, as an architect must 
review the total number ofresidents who would like to participate in the benefit simultaneous with 
mapping the final design, which will include an existing-utility study to assure that the gas, sewer, and 
water lines running through the sidewalk are not affected by this benefit. 
Maintenance and Care: After planting the trees, the Developer will be responsible for their 
maintenance (pruning as necessary, water) and care for 24 consecutive months. Thereafter the 
trees will be the responsibility of each private owner on whose property a tree has been planted. 
Program Participation: Participation in the program by homeowners in the 19th A venue Park 
neighborhood is entirely voluntarily (i.e., Property owners may opt-in or opt-out of the program). 
2

--- page 46 ---
' 
l 
18 
I 
J 
~ 
\ 
r 
(
' 
" 
EXHIBITE 
FORM OF ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT 
[ATTACHED BEHIND] 
Exhibit E - 1 
2017326-14

--- page 47 ---
I 
f 
11 
(' 
\ 
Form of Assumption Agreement 
(Space Above For Recorder's Use) 
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT 
This Assignment and Assumption Agreement (this "Assignment") is entered into 
as of 
, by and between ARJAX RAILROAD ASSOCIATES II, LLC, a 
Delaware limited liability company ("Developer"), 
, a ___ _ 
("Assignee") and the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a political subdivision of the State of 
California ("City"). 
RECITALS 
A. 
City and Developer entered into that certain Development Agreement dated 
as of · 
, 2011, and recorded on 
as Instrument No. 
in 
the Official Records of San Mateo County (the "Development Agreement") with respect 
to the development of the "Project" (as defined in the Development Agreement) on certain 
real property located in the City, as more particularly described in Exhibit A attached 
hereto (the "Property"). 
B. 
Pursuant to, and subject to the terms and conditions set forth in, that certain 
[Purchase and Sale Agreement] dated as of 
by and between Developer and 
Assignee (the "Purchase Agreement"), Developer shall (i) convey title to [IN THE CASE 
OF THE ENTIRE PROPERTY -- the Property] [IN THE CASE OF A PORTION OF THE 
PROPERTY -- that portion of the Property described in Exhibit B attached hereto (the 
"Transferred Parcel")] to Assignee and (ii) assign and transfer certain of its rights and 
obligations as "Developer" under the Development Agreement and the other Project 
entitlements, approvals, and conditions of approval described therein (together with the 
Development Agreement, the "Project Approvals") to Assignee to the extent described in 
the Purchase Agreement. 
Exhibit E- 2 
2017326-14

--- page 48 ---
ti 
f 
) 
'
~ 
\ 
(
' 
' 
C. 
Pursuant to this Assignment, Developer intends to assign and transfer, and 
Assignee intends to assume, such rights and obligations of Developer to the extent 
described herein. 
D. 
Pursuant to Section 11.A of the Development Agreement, City has the right 
to reasonably consent to certain assignments and transfers of Developer's rights and 
obligations under the Development Agreement. 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants hereinafter set 
forth and the foregoing recitals, which are incorporated herein by reference and made a part 
of this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy 
of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
[1. 
ADD IF CITY CONSENT TO TRANSFER IS REQUIRED UNDER DA -
City Consent to Transfer. Subject to Assignee acquiring fee title to the {Property} 
{Transferred Parcel} pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, City hereby consents to 
Developer assigning and transferring the Transferred Rights and Obligations (as defined in 
Section 2 below) to Assignee.] 
[1. 
ADD IF CITY CONSENT TO TRANSFER IS NOT REQUIRED UNDER 
DA (USE FOR PRE-APPROVED TRANSFEREES) - City Acknowledgment of 
Pre-Approved Transferee. Subject to Assignee acquiring fee title to the {Property} 
{Transferred Parcel} pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, City hereby acknowledges that 
Developer's assignment and transfer of the Transferred Rights and Obligations (as defined 
in Section 2 below) to Assignee constitutes a Transfer to a Pre-Approved Transferee (as 
those terms are defined in the Development Agreement) for which n:o City consent is 
required under the Development Agreement.] 
2. 
Assignment and Assumption. Subject to Assignee acquiring fee title to the 
[Property] [Transferred Parcel] described in Exhibit B pursuant to the Purchase 
Agreement, (i) Developer hereby assigns its rights and obligations under the Development 
Agreement to Assignee pertaining to the [Property] [Transferred Parcel], as more fully 
described in Exhibit C attached hereto (the "Transferred Rights and Obligations"), and 
(ii) Assignee hereby assumes the Transferred Rights and Obligations and agrees to be 
bound by the terms and conditions .of the Development Agreement with respect to the 
[Property] [Transferred Parcel]. 
3. 
Release. City and Assignee each acknowledges and agrees that subject to 
Assignee acquiring fee title to the [Property] [Transferred Parcel] pursuant to the Purchase 
Agreement, Developer is hereby released from and is no longer obligated to perform or 
fulfill the Transferred Rights and Obligations. 
· 
4. 
Effectiveness; Recording. Each party hereto acknowledges and agrees that 
(i) Developer's assignment and transfer, (ii) Assignee's assumption and release, and (iii) 
City's [consent and] release, each as contemplated by this Assignment, are contingent 
upon Assignee acquiring fee title to the [Property] [Transferred Parcel] pursuant to the 
Exhibit E - 3 
2017326-14

--- page 49 ---
' ' 
t'I 
' 
• • 
r-. 
' 
( 
Purchase Agreement, and that if such acquisition does not occur, this Assignment shall not 
be recorded and shall be of no further force or effect. Concurrently with the close of 
escrow for such acquisition or at any time thereafter, any of the parties hereto shall have the 
right to instruct [INSERT ESCROW HOLDER'S NAME AND ADDRESS] ("Escrow 
Holder"), the escrow holder under the Purchase Agreement, to record this Assignment in 
the Official Records of San Mateo County. If so delivered, Escrow Holder shall record this 
Assignment. 
5. 
Estoppel. City hereby confirms that, to its actual knowledge, (i) the 
Development Agreement is in full force and effect and a binding obligation of the parties 
thereto, (ii) the Development Agreement has not been amended or modified either orally or 
in writing, and (iii) Developer is not in default in the performance of its obligations under 
the Development Agreement. 
6. 
Covenants Running with the Land. The provisions of this Assignment shall 
constitute covenants which shall run with the land comprising the [Property] [Transferred 
Parcel]. The burdens and benefits hereof shall bind and inure to the benefit of each party 
hereto and to all successors in interests to the parties hereto. 
7. 
Severability. If any term, provision, covenant or condition of this 
Assignn1ent is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or 
unenforceable, the remaining terms, provisions, covenants and conditions of this 
Assignment shall continue in full force and effect. 
8. 
Amendments. No amendment, supplement or other modification to this 
Assignment shall be effective or enforceable against the parties hereto unless such 
amendment, supplement or other modification is in writing and executed by all of the 
parties hereto. 
9. 
Applicable Law and Venue. This Assignment shall be construed and 
enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of California. In the event of litigation, 
venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
10. 
Counterparts; Headings; Defined Terms. This Assignment may be 
executed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which together shall 
constitute one Assignment. The headings to sections of this Assignment are for reference 
only and shall not be used in interpreting this Assignment. 
11. 
Waiver. No waiver by any of the parties hereto of any of the terms or 
conditions of this Assignment or any of their rights under this Assignment shall be 
effective unless such waiver is in writing and signed by the waiving party. 
Exhibit E - 4 
2017326-14

--- page 50 ---
( 
• 
,. !'1 
' 
12. 
Further Assurances. Each party hereto agrees, upon the reasonable request 
of another party hereto, to perform any further acts and to execute and deliver such further 
documents which may be reasonably necessary to carry out the terms of this Assignment. 
List of Exhibits: 
Exhibit A 
[Exhibit B 
Exhibit C 
2017326-14 
Legal Description of the Property 
Legal Description of the Transferred Property] 
Transferred Rights and Obligations 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
Exhibit E - 5

--- page 51 ---
' ,. 
,., 
( 
i 
,r: 
' 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Assignment as of 
the date first above written. 
Exhibit E - 6 
2017326-14

--- page 52 ---
,, 
Cl 
1 
,r, 
' 
( ' 
CONSENT, JOINDER AND SUBORDINATION OF LENDER 
The undersigned, BOREL PRIVATE BANK AND TRUST COMP ANY, a California 
chartered bank ("Borel"), is the owner and holder of that certain Deed of Trust, Assignment of 
Leases and Rents, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing dated October 13, 2006, which is 
recorded in the Recorder's Office of the County of San Mateo, California, as Instrument No. 
• 
~~1~'1~';7.._;1~r,.~.:--"~ C .,.,.,;~~~~ 
' 
2006-154886, m ~.¥t~1@;'%tii\1/f~ _£!'g~1~./J.'4\$;, as the same may have or hereafter be amended (the 
"Deed of Trust"). 
· 
Borel, as the owner and holder of the Deed of Trust, hereby joins in, consents to, and 
subordinates the Deed of Trust to the Development Agreement by and between The City of San 
Mateo and ARJAX Railroad Associates II, LLC, Relative to the Development known as Station 
Green Park (the "Development Agreement") to which this Consent, Joinder and Subordination of 
Lender is attached. Borel agrees that all of its right, title, interest and estate in and to the real 
property and any improvements thereon described in the Deed of Trust shall be and is hereby 
bound by, subject to and subordinate to all of the terms and provisions of the Development 
Agreement, and the Development Agreement (and all of the terms and provisions thereof) shall 
fully survive any foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure and/or any exercise by Lender of any right 
or remedy under or pursuant to the Deed of Trust. 
BOREL: 
BOREL PRIVATE BANK AND TRUST COMP ANY, 
a California chartered bank 
[SIGNATURES MUST BE NOTARIZED FOR RECORDED DOCUMENT]

--- page 53 ---
, . \ 
f 
,. 
,1 
r 
1 
"' 
BEFORE THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO IN THE 
COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 330 WEST 20TH AVENUE 
ORDINANCE INTRODUCED: 
January 18, 2011 
(,,---.., 
ORDINANCE ADOPTION TO BE CONSIDERED AT 7 P.M.: February 7, 2011 
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-_1_ 
APPROVING A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR 
MIXED USE OF RESIDENTIAL, OFFICE AND RETAIL SP ACE 
AT 1700 AND 1790 SOUTH DELAWARE STREET 
"STATION PARK GREEN" 
(PA07-030) 
WHEREAS, on June 6, 2005, the City Council, after reviewing and approving the Final 
Environmental Impact Report under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), 
approved the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan; and 
WHEREAS, the applicant, ARJAX Railroad Associates II, LLC, has requested a 
development agreement with the City (the "Agreement"); and 
WHEREAS, the applicant wishes assurance that it may proceed with the project under 
the laws, regulations and policies as specified in the Agreement, in effect on the date of the 
approval; and 
WHEREAS, the state legislature has authorized cities to enter into development 
agreements in order to provide assurance to developers that they may proceed with projects in 
reliance on existing laws, regulations and policies; and 
WHEREAS, the City, in Resolution No.120 (1990), has adopted procedures for 
reviewing and entering into such development agreements; and 
WHEREAS, most recently, the Planning Commission met in September, October and 
November 2010 to comment on the Specific Plan, Design Guidelines and Development 
Agreement which resulted in substantial revisions to the project which are fully detailed in the 
accompanying Administrative Report; and 
WHEREAS, at a noticed public hearing, the Planning Commission considered the 
Agreement in conjunction with the Mitigated Negative Declaration and the Specific Plan and 
Design Guidelines on December 16, 2010, and recommended approval to the City Council; and 
WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing noticed in accordance with 
Government Code section 65090 and 65091 and Municipal Code section 27.06.050 on January 
18, 2011, at which the public was given an opportunity to speak regarding adoption of the 
Agreement; 
1 
Q:\cityatty\Ordinanccs\CDD-PLAJ\'l\TJNG\S1a1ion Park Green Project Development Agreement Ordinance PA 07·030.doc

--- page 54 ---
, j 
I" 
1 
r< 
I 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL FINDS THAT: 
1. 
In accordance with Government Code section 65867.5, the Agreement is 
consistent with the City's General Plan and the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan 
for the reasons set forth in the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit A to the Administrative 
Repmi accompanying this Ordinance, as well as with the Station Park Green Specific Plan 
approved concurrently under Resolution No. ~ 
(2011 ), and 
2. 
The Agreement is compatible with the requirements of the City's Zoning 
Ordinance for the reasons set fmih in the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit A to the 
Administrative Report accompanying this Ordinance, and 
3. 
For the reasons set forth in the Administrative Repmi accompanying this 
Ordinance, the Agreement provides substantial public benefits to persons residing or owning 
property outside the boundaries of the development project, beyond the exactions for public 
benefits required in the normal development review process under federal, state or local law; and 
4. 
The Council finds that the environmental impacts of the Agreement were 
analyzed in the Mitigated Negative Declaration, and the Council has considered and adopts that 
Mitigated Negative Declaration and the corresponding Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting 
Program, before approving the Agreement. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE SAN MATEO CITY COUNCIL ORDAINS THAT: 
Section 1. A Mitigated Negative Declaration was prepared for this project in accordance 
with Public Resources Code section 21064.5. 
Section 2. The Council approves the Development Agreement in substantially the form 
attached as Exhibit A to this Ordinance. 
Section 3. The Council authorizes and directs the Mayor to execute the Agreement on 
behalf of the City. 
Section 4. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance takes effect 30 days after its second 
reading and its adoption. 
Section 5. PUBLICATION. This Ordinance shall be published once in accordance 
with City Charter section 2.15. 
Section 6. RECORDATION. In accordance with Government Code Section 65868.5, 
t_he Agreement will be recorded no later than 10 days after execution. 
ATTEST: 
(SEAL)/s/NORMA GOMEZ 
/s/JACK MATTHEWS 
NORMA GOMEZ, CITY CLERK 
JACK MATTHEWS, MAYOR 
-2-
Q:\ci1ya11y\Ordinanccs\COD-PL,\NNING\S1a1ion Park Green Projecl Dcvclopmcnl Agrccmcnl Ordinance PA 07-030.doc

--- page 55 ---
, r 
*** 
Ordinance No. 2011-1 introduced on January 18, 2011 and adopted 
on February 7, 2011 by the City Council of the City of San Mateo, 
California, at a regular meeting held on February 7, 2011, by the 
following vote of the Council: 
A YES: 
Council Members LIM, LEE, GROTTE, ROSS 
and MATTHEWS 
NOES: 
NONE 
ABSENT: NONE 
(SEAL) ls/NORMA GOMEZ, City Clerk

--- page 56 ---
Att 3 – City Council No.120 (1990) - Establishing Procedures and Requirements for the 
Consideration of Development Agreements

--- page 57 ---
Section 2. Authorization.
(a) The City may enter into a development agreement
with a person having a legal or equitable interest in real

property within the City for the development of the property as
provided in this resolution.

with a person having a legal or equitable interest in real
property in unincorporated territory within the City's sphere
of influence for the development of the Property as provided in
this resolution, However, the agreement shall] not become
operative unless annexation proceedings annexing the property
to the City are completed within the period of time specified
by the agreement,

If the annexation is not completed within the time
specified in the agreement or any extension of the agreement,
the agreement is null and void.

Section 3. Application. Application for a
development agreement Shall be made to the Department of
Community Development. An application for a development
agreement may not be :filed prior to an application for a
development project on the same property. The application
shall be accompanied ‘by the fee prescribed by the City fee
schedule, established pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code,
and shall be accompanied by the form of development agreement
Proposed by the applicant. When the application is determined
to be complete, the Director of Community Development or
designee shall, at the applicant's expense, review the
application and transmit it, together with staff
recommendations, to the Planning Commission,

j 4. - A development agreement shall
specify the land Subject to the agreement, the duration of the
agreement, the permitted uses of the property, the density or
intensity of use, the maximum height and size of proposed
buildings, and provisions for reservation or dedication of land
for public purposes. The development agreement may include
conditions, terms, restrictions, and requirements for
subsequent discretionary actions, provided that such
conditions, terms, restrictions, and requirements for
subsequent discretionary actions Shall not prevent development
of the land for the uses and to the density or intensity of
development set forth in the agreement. The agreement may
provide that construction Shall be commenced within a specified
time and that the Project or any phase thereof be completed
within a specified time.

The agreement may also include terms and conditions

relating to applicant financing of necessary public facilities
in conjunction With the Phasing of the development project.

4269G/13 2


--- page 58 ---
ee! i ffici *
Unless otherwise provided by the development agreement, rules,
regulations, and official policies governing permitted uses of
the land, governing density, and governing design, improvement,
and construction standards and specifications, applicable to
development of the property subject to a development agreement,
Shall be those rules, regulations, and official policies in
force at the time of' execution of the agreement. A development
agreement shall not prevent the City, in subsequent actions
applicable to the property, from applying new rules,
regulations, and policies which do not conflict with those
rules, regulations, and policies applicable to the property as
set forth in the development agreement, nor shall a development
agreement prevent the City from denying or conditionally
approving any subsequent development project application on the
basis of such existing or new rules, regulations, and policies,

c : 6. ‘Public } . 1 ic € intention 1
consider adoption. A public hearing on an application for a
development agreement shall be held by the Planning Commission
and by the City Council. Notice of intention to consider
adoption of a development agreement shall be given as provided
in California Government Code sections 65090 and 65091, and San
Mateo Municipal Code; section 27.06.050, in addition to any
other notice required by law for other actions to be considered
concurrently with the development agreement.

Section 7. . i + A development agreement
is a legislative act which shall be approved by ordinance and
is subject to referendum. This resolution only establishes
procedures for consideration of development agreements; the
City Council retains'discretion to approve or disapprove any
proposed development: agreement. A development agreement shall
not be approved unless the City Council finds that the
provisions of the agreement:

(a) are consistent with the City's General Plan and
any applicable specific plan,

(b) are compatible with the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance, and

(c) provide substantial public benefits to persons
residing or owning property outside the boundaries
of the development project, beyond the exactions
for public benefits required in the normal
development review process under federal, state or
local law,

(a) Periodic review. The Planning Commission shall

review the development agreement at least every 12 months, at
which time the applicant or successor in interest thereto,

i

4269G/13 3


--- page 59 ---
Shall be required to ‘demonstrate good faith compliance with the
terms of the agreement. If, as @ result of such Periodic
review, the Planning Commission determines that, on the basis
Of substantial evidence, the agreement has been complied with
in good faith, such decision shal] be subject to appeal in
accordance with Procedures set forth in San Mateo Municipal
Code Section 27.08.090, If, as a result of such Periodic
review, the Planning Commission determines that, on the basis

terminating Or modifying the agreement. Notice of such hearing
Shall be given as set forth in Section 6 of this résolution,

If the City Council determines, on the basis of substantial
evidence, that the applicant Or successor in interest thereto
has not complied in good faith with the terms or Conditions of
the agreement, or that the failure of the City to terminate or
modify the Provisions of the development agreement would Place

n

the manner Provided in Section 6 of this Tesolution. an
amendment to a development agreement shal] be subject to the
Provisions of Section 7 of this resolution.

In the
ted after
ent has been entered into, Prevent or
Preclude Compliance with one or pore provisions of the
development agreement, such Provisions of the agreement shal]
be modified Or suspended as may be necessary to comply with

Pursuant to Section § herein, a development agreement shal] be
enforceable by any Party thereto, notwithstanding any change in
any applicable general or Specific plan, Zoning, Subdivision,
Or building regulation adopted by the City, which alters or
amends the rules, regulations, Or policies Specified in Section

4269G/13 4


--- page 60 ---
eo. @
Section 10. ‘Execution and Recordation.

(a) No development Shall be executed by the Mayor
until it has been executed by the 8pplicant. re
the applicant has not executed the agreement, as
approved by the City Council, within thirty days
of the City Council approval, the application for
development agreement shall be deemed withdrawn,
and a Mayor Shall not execute the agreement,

(b) No later than 10 days after the City enters into a
development agreement, the City shall record with
the County Recorder @ Copy of the agreement, which
Shall describe the land Subject thereto, From and
after the time of such recordation, the agreement
Shall impart such hotice thereof to all persons as
is afforded by the recording laws of this state.
The burdens of the agreement Shall be binding

inure to, all Successors in interest to the
Parties ‘to the agreement,

Section 11. i + The Council finds
that the adoption of this resolution is not a Project for the
Purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act, and

therefore, no environmental impact assessment is necessary,

Section 12, : This resOlution shall
become effective Sixty days after its adoption, together with

ae

tes ory

=

bk ster _—

ER aa

4269G/13 5


--- page 61 ---
xk *
Resolution adopted by the City Council of
the City of San Mateo, California, at a
regular ‘meeting held on October 15, 1990,
by the following vote of the Council

members:

AYES: | Council Members POWELL, MACK,
' RHOADS, BAKER and GUMBINGER

NOES: NONE

ABSENT: NONE

/


--- page 62 ---
LOCATION MAP 
PA 2020-009 
1700-1798 S. DELAWARE STREET / STATION PARK GREEN 
Address: 
1700-1798 S. Delaware Street 
San Mateo, CA 94402 
Parcel Number: 
035-200-200,  035-200-210,  035-200-220,  035-200-230
Project Site 
Att 4 - Location Map

--- page 63 ---
Att 5 – Request from Essex Properties, LP for Station Park Green Development Agreement 
Annual Review and Development Agreement Matrix

--- page 64 ---
terms of this Agreement so as to carry out the intent of the Parties in entering into it (“Good Faith

Compliance”’).

Intent of the Parties

The intent of the parties to the Development Agreement is summarized in Recital M of the Development
Agreement as follows, which is a part of the agreement:

In exchange for providing [the Public Benefits, Developer receives assurance from City that Developer shall be
entitled to proceed with development of the Project and provision of the Public Benefits . . ...

Thus, the City approved and consented to construction of the Project at any time during the Term, but
only on condition that, among other things, “(2) Developer complies with its obligations with respect to
Public Benefits.”

Timing of Public Benefits

The Timing of Public Benefits is set out as Exhibit B to the Development Agreement. As indicated in the
Annual Review Matrix, which is attached hereto as EXHIBIT A, Essex has complied and satisfied all of
the Public Benefits:
1. Grant by Developer of a surface easement for the purposes of a Class I bike facility and
landscaping strip along the southeasterly frontage of the Property with Concar Drive.
2. Contribution of $627,000 to help fund or reimburse the City for the design and construction of the
portion of the Complete Street project along the South Delaware frontage of the Property
3. Contribution to City of $200,000 to help fund or reimburse the City for pedestrian and bicycle
improvements in the immediate area
4. Contribution of $60,000 to help fund, or reimburse the City for, the planting and two (2) years of
maintenance for trees in the 19th Avenue Park neighborhood
5. Development, operation and maintenance of a community room of at 3,000 sq. ft. available to the
San Mateo community free of charge
6. Relocation and underground of existing utility lines within the public right-of-way of Concar Dr.
along property frontage
7. Compliance with City's Below Rate Market Housing Program (program in place at date of DA
execution).
Join the City's Transportation Management Association
9. Meet and confer with developers of PA 09-009 (Hines) to pursue shared parking opportunities
between the two developments
10. Provide the US Green Building Council Letter dated March 24, 2008 confirming Stage 1 approval
at the Gold level under the Pilot Version for Neighborhood Development Rating System (LEED
ND)
11, Developer waives its right to request a density bonus

nee

Conclusion

Essex, continues to comply in good faith with the terms and conditions of the Development Agreement.
Further, in accordance with Section 8 of the Development Agreement, we respectfully request that the
review of such compliance by the Planning Commission be made in accordance with law.


--- page 65 ---
Please let me know if you have any questions or require further documentation. Thank you.

Deanna Chalfant
Vice President, Development

ce: Ron Munekawa, Chief of Planning
Adam Berry, Co-Chief Investment Officer- Essex


--- page 66 ---
EXHIBIT A - Station Park Green Development Agreement Matrix: 2017
Requirement
Development 
Agreement Section 
Trigger
Status
Public Benefits
Grant by Developer of a surface easement for the purposes of a Class I 
bike facility and landscaping strip along the southeasterly frontage of the 
Property with Concar Drive.
3.A.1.a
The later of expiration of all statutes of limitation 
applicable to any covered actions and final resolution 
of all covered actions
Developer has complied with requirement.
Contribution of $627,000 to help fund or reimburse the City for the 
design and construction of the portion of the Complete Street project 
along the South Delaware frontage of the Property
3.A.1.b
No later than upon demolition of the existing Kmart 
building
Developer has complied with requirement.
Contribution to City of $200,000 to help fund or reimburse the City for 
pedestrian and bicycle improvements in the immediate area
3.A.1.c.iii
6 and 18 Months after the Execution date of the 
Development Agreement
Developer has complied with requirement.
Contribution of $60,000 to help fund, or reimburse the City for, the 
planting and two (2) years of maintenance for trees in the 19th Avenue 
Park neighborhood
3.A.1.d
No later than upon demolition of the existing Kmart 
building
Developer has complied with requirement.
Development, operation and maintenance of a community room of at 
3,000 sq. ft. available to the San Mateo community free of charge
3.A.1.e
No later than upon issuance of a certificate of 
occupancy for the first building at the third of the 
following blocks MU-1, MU-2 and MU-3
Developer has complied with requirement.
Relocation and underground of existing utility lines within the public 
right-of-way of Concar Dr. along property frontage
3.A.1.f
No later than upon issuance of a certificate of 
occupancy for the first building at the third of the 
following blocks MU-1, MU-2 and MU-3
Developer has complied with requirement.
Compliance with City's Below Rate Market Housing Program (program in 
place at date of DA execution)
3.A.1.g
Signing of Development Agreement 
Developer has complied with requirement.
Join the City's Transportation Management Association
3.A.2
Signing of Development Agreement 
Developer has complied with requirement.
Meet and confer with developers of PA 09-009 (Hines) to pursue shared 
parking opportunities between the two developments
3.A.3
Signing of Development Agreement 
Developer has complied with requirement.
Provide the US Green Building Council Letter dated March 24, 2008 
confirming Stage 1 approval at the Gold level under the Pilot Version for 
Neighborhood Development Rating System (LEED ND)
3.A.4
Signing of Development Agreement 
Developer has complied with requirement.
Developer waives its right to request a density bonus
3.A.5
Signing of Development Agreement 
Developer has complied with requirement.

--- page 67 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
Agenda Report 
 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
 
 
 
Agenda Number:  3 
Section Name: STUDY SESSION 
File ID: 20-2522 
 
TO: 
Planning Commission 
FROM: 
Kohar Kojayan 
PREPARED BY: 
Community Development Department 
MEETING DATE: 
April 28, 2020  
SUBJECT: 
City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites (PA-2019-033) 
 
RECOMMENDATION: 
That the Planning Commission review the redesigned multi-family residential building and parking garage on a preliminary 
basis, receive public comments, and provide comments to the applicant and staff pertaining to the proposed redesign of 
the seven-story residential building and five-level parking garage 
 
BACKGROUND: 
This project involves redevelopment of two City-owned sites into a residential building on 480 E. 4th Avenue and a 
separate above-grade parking garage on 400 E. 5th Avenue. The sites are currently used as surface parking lots and are 
operated by the City as part of the overall Downtown parking supply. On April 16, 2018, the City Council selected MidPen 
Housing Corporation as the preferred developer through a competitive request for proposal (RFP) process to partner with 
the City to develop these sites.  
 
The Planning Commission reviewed a previous proposal of this project on April 23, 2019 as a study-session. The residential 
building was originally proposed as an approximately 54-foot tall, five-story building, comprised of a total of 164 affordable 
rental units. However, on November 18, 2019, as part of a project update, staff informed the City Council of newly enacted 
Assembly Bill (AB) 1763, which allows for increased building height (up to three additional stories or up to 33 feet) and 
removal of maximum density controls for 100 percent affordable housing projects located within a half-mile of a major 
transit stop. The Council subsequently requested that MidPen Housing further study increasing the project’s building 
height and density for the purpose of creating additional affordable units. In response to that guidance, MidPen Housing 
developed a seven-story alternative design that provided 61 additional units for a total of 225 affordable rental units. The 
general design of the five-level parking garage and total parking space count remained unchanged.  
 
On February 3, 2020, staff and MidPen Housing presented to the City Council the conceptual plans and resulting project 
impacts of the seven-story design. The Council was unanimous in its direction that the project should move forward with 
the new seven-story design. As a result of the changes to the project’s originally proposed design and scope, the project is 
being brought back to the Planning Commission for a study session.  
 
Project Description 
The project is comprised of two buildings, each located on separate lots and connected by a pedestrian bridge that spans 
over E. 5th Avenue. The proposed seven-story, 234,374 square-foot (sq. ft.) residential building measures 74 feet 5 inches 
to the top of its highest plate. A total of 225 affordable rental units are proposed including: 65 studio, 48 one-bedroom, 53 
two-bedroom, and 59 three-bedroom units. Of the 225 units, two units will be manager units; 122 units will target 
extremely to low-income households earning between 30 percent and 60 percent Area Median Income (AMI) for San 
Mateo County and 101 will target households that earn greater than 60 percent AMI and at or less than 80 percent AMI.  A

--- page 68 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
preference will be provided to households that live or work in the City of San Mateo. In addition, there will be an 
additional preference for public employees for a portion of the units restricted above 60 percent AMI and at or below 80 
percent AMI.  
 
The project provides residents several onsite amenities including a large landscaped ground-floor courtyard, 288 bicycle 
stalls (long-term and short-term) and dedicated bike storage room, a roof deck on the seventh-floor, a learning center for 
afterschool programs for school-aged project residents, a fitness center, and approximately 21,004 square feet of common 
open space. The common open space includes a play structure and a shared barbecue area for residents as well as open 
green space.  
 
The proposed five-level, 215,099 sq. ft. parking garage measures 46-feet to the top of its highest plate. The above-grade 
garage includes 164 residential parking stalls and a minimum of 532 public parking stalls to replace the existing 235 public 
parking spaces on the two lots. Per Council direction during the aforementioned project update in November 2019, the 
community-serving space in the garage was removed from the project scope.  
 
A total of 69 trees were surveyed across the two parcels; four eucalyptus and two coast live oak trees are categorized as 
“heritage trees,” of which the two coast live oaks will be retained, and 67 trees are scheduled for removal. A total of 31 
new trees (36-inch box) will be planted as replacement trees. Project Plans are provided in Attachment 1. 
 
Site Description 
The two lots located at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th Avenue are former redevelopment sites owned by the City of San 
Mateo. The 480 E. 4th Avenue parcel encompasses an entire downtown block and is bounded by S. Claremont Street to 
the northeast, E. 5th Avenue to the southeast, S. Railroad Avenue to the southwest and E. 4th Avenue to the northwest. 
The 400 E. 5th Avenue parcel is adjacent to a PG&E substation and privately held properties to the northeast and 
southeast, the railroad tracks to the southwest, and E. 5th Avenue to the northwest. Both parcels are currently used as 
surface public parking lots and the 5th Avenue parcel also houses the Worker’s Resource Center which will be relocated 
off-site as a result of this proposed project. Both parcels are zoned Central Business District - Support (CBD/S) and are in 
the Downtown Plan area. A Location Map of the project site is included in Attachment 2. 
 
Building Design 
Residential Building 
The same architectural style and general building form presented with the original five-story design has been carried 
through to the new seven-story proposal. The contemporary building design is comprised primarily of rectilinear lines and 
flat articulated wall planes. Exterior wall materials are composed primarily of cement plaster wall treatment with cement 
accent panels and lap siding, providing variation and texture. Projecting window bays help provide visual depth and 
material contrast with the darker panels. Wood railings are featured on the “Juliet” balconies across the building to add 
warmth and soften the edges of the building. Windows along the cement plaster wall segments have been recessed by 2 
inches in response to design review feedback.  
 
The building is setback from property lines at varying distances no greater than 8 feet to allow for a perimeter of 
landscaping to help visually soften the residential development. Additionally, in response to previous Planning Commission 
study-session comments, the originally proposed tall patio walls along the South Claremont Street frontage have been 
removed and taller plantings will be utilized to screen the cement base of the patios to improve the pedestrian 
environment. Brick has been incorporated at exterior locations along the first-floor to visually provide added articulation 
and warmth. The main entrance to the multi-family building has been further enhanced to provide clear wayfinding for 
pedestrians. The public plaza remains in the same originally proposed location presented previously to the Planning 
Commission at the corner of 4th Avenue and Railroad Avenue to provide greater visibility and convenience to train users 
and Downtown patrons.  
 
Parking Garage 
The design of the parking garage has been further refined and will be built primarily of a system of concrete beams, 
featuring mesh security fencing along the ground floor and decorative vertical mesh fins on the façade facing South

--- page 69 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
Railroad Street elements along the upper floors. The northwest elevation features a large concrete masonry unit (CMU) 
wall facing the PG&E substation. The wall is built to the shared property line with the substation and access is restricted, 
which limits design alternatives but the applicant is proposing a pattern on the CMU wall for increased visual interest. 
Ventilated screen façade panels featured on the west and south elevations provide potential areas to incorporate public 
art. The east side of the structure, which serves as the rear of the garage, is partly open but carries the aforementioned 
CMU wall around to southeast corner of the structure.  
 
The pedestrian entry is located along the west elevation as is the garage’s vehicle entry. The garage will be elevator-
served, and a restricted access pedestrian bridge located over E. 5th Avenue will connect the top level of the parking 
structure (where the residential parking spaces are located) to the residential building. A gate will restrict access to the 
residential parking from the public parking spaces. Photovoltaic panels are proposed on the top floor of the parking 
garage. 
 
Applicable Code and Policy Review 
General Plan 
The General Plan Land Use Diagram designates the two subject parcels as Downtown Retail Core Support, which is 
intended to provide uses to support the City’s Central Business District. The proposed project is consistent with the Land 
Use Diagram in that the residential uses provide a customer base for businesses and the public parking garage provides 
parking for customers, employees and visitors to the downtown. The project conforms to the goals and policies of the 
General Plan; a preliminary list of applicable General Plan policies is included in Attachment 3. 
 
Downtown Area Plan 
The project is located in the Downtown Area Plan. The Downtown Area Plan goals establish a framework for specific 
policies, which pertain to new downtown development as well as preservation of existing downtown resources. The 
Downtown Area Plan specifically identifies the redevelopment of these sites as key catalysts for the revitalization of the 
Central Claremont area. The goals that specifically relate to this project are: 
 
• 
Enhance Downtown’s role as the City Center and maintain its unique sense of place 
• 
Enhance the vitality of Downtown by incorporating an overall good mix of diversity of uses 
• 
Enhance the Downtown’s pedestrian environment and enhance the safety and attractiveness of Downtown 
• 
Ensure adequate parking to meet expected needs, enhance the quality of the parking environment, and improve 
public perceptions about parking availability  
• 
Support sustainable initiatives in Downtown 
 
The project conforms to the goals and policies of the Downtown Area Plan in that the new residential multifamily building 
will support the downtown businesses, and the design, materials, and color scheme will complement the area’s existing 
and proposed buildings. The parking garage will replace the existing 235 parking spaces provided at the two surface lots 
and add 297 spaces to the downtown parking supply to meet anticipated parking demand. Further, the new parking 
garage spaces would potentially allow existing street parking spaces to be repurposed for identified bike infrastructure and 
pedestrian realm improvements. The project will include sustainable initiatives including solar and transportation demand 
management. The overall sidewalk widths encourage foot traffic and facilitate a comfortable outdoor environment within 
downtown. Please refer to Attachment 4 for the Downtown Area Plan policies. 
 
Downtown Parking Management Plan 
The City Council adopted the Downtown Parking Management Plan in April 2014. The goal of the Plan is to develop 
downtown parking strategies to better manage downtown current parking supply, serve existing demand, estimate the 
future parking need, and understand the most appropriate funding opportunities to fund the on-going and future parking 
program. The Plan concluded that parking demand exceeded parking supply during the weekday midday peak by 231 
spaces. In addition, the Plan projected that within 10 years, the demand would exceed supply by 391 spaces. the inclusion 
of the parking garage in this project is intended to replace the surface parking lots and to contribute public parking to 
offset the need for additional parking supply in Downtown and to accommodate the demand from the roughly 325 in-lieu

--- page 70 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
parking space payments that have been collected on the Downtown to date. The Downtown Parking Management Plan is 
available on the City’s website at https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/3025/Downtown-Parking-Management-Plan. 
 
Zoning Code 
The zoning designation for the two subject sites is CBD/S. The CBD/S defers to the permitted uses specified for the CBD 
zoning district, which includes multi-family dwellings when part of a mixed-use development. The proposed project is a 
permitted mixed-use development comprised of a multi-family residential development and city-owned public parking 
facility located within the Central Parking Improvement District.  
 
The allowable floor area ratio (FAR) for this district is 3.00 and the building plate height maximum is 55 feet as specified by 
the underlying zoning district and consistent with the Building Height Plan of the General Plan. The seven-story residential 
building on the 480 E. 4th Avenue parcel proposes a 4.63 FAR, while the parking garage located on the 400 E. 5th Avenue 
parcel proposes a 3.95 FAR. It should be noted the municipal code defines FAR as the gross floor area of the buildings on a 
zoning plot divided by the net lot area. A zoning plot can consist of more than one parcel on which a common 
improvement is permitted. As such, the proposed FAR for the overall project is 4.28. The increase in the FAR above the 
maximum is being requested as incentive via the State Density Bonus Law and the City of San Mateo’s Density Bonus 
ordinance, as the project is providing at least 30 percent below market rate (BMR) units to low-income households 
(further detail provided in the subsection below). Applicable zoning code requirements and technical project figures are 
provided in the Factual Data Sheet provided in Attachment 5. 
 
The project does propose some deviations from Zoning Code standards for which the applicant will seek relief by utilizing 
available concessions consistent with the provisions of State Density Bonus Law. Additionally, staff has initiated a proposed 
code amendment to Municipal Code Chapter 27.15, which is described in the following subsections of this report.  
 
Density Bonus 
The proposed project utilizes the provisions of State Density Bonus and Other Incentives Law – State Government Code 
Section 65915. AB 1763 amended the State Density Bonus Law to provide housing developments that are 100 percent 
affordable and within a half-mile of a major transit stop unlimited density, an increase of building height up to three 
additional stories or up to 33 feet, and up to four incentives or concessions as defined by Government Code Section 65915. 
The project’s proposed scope of work (i.e. 100 percent affordable units) and proximity to the Downtown San Mateo 
Caltrain Station (i.e. less than a half-mile) qualifies the project for the aforementioned provisions of AB 1763. The project 
currently proposes to utilize three concessions (up to four are permitted) on the following project design elements: 
 
1. Floor Area Ratio. As previously noted, the CBD/S zoning district prescribes a maximum FAR of 3.0. To build the 
residential building to the density permitted under AB 1763 and the required number of stalls in the parking 
garage, the project will need an increased FAR of 4.28. 
 
2. Residential Parking on Separate Site. The parking associated with the residential development is required to be on 
the same parcel. However, placing the required parking onsite would physically preclude the project from building 
to the maximum density permitted under AB 1763, as approximately 34 affordable housing units would need to be 
eliminated to accommodate the required parking onsite.  
 
3. Maximum Bulk. Buildings located within the Downtown Specific Plan area which are greater than 55 feet in height 
cannot exceed 150 lineal feet horizontally or have a diagonal dimension greater than 170 lineal feet. Abiding by 
this bulk requirement would preclude the project from building to the maximum density permitted under AB 1763. 
 
A draft of the applicant’s Density Bonus Request Letter is included in Attachment 6.  
 
Code Amendment 
Staff is currently processing a draft ordinance that would amend Municipal Code Section 27.15.080 for AB 1763 covered 
projects (i.e. 100 percent affordable housing projects within a half-mile of transit) to allow affordable housing developers 
added flexibility and relief from local requirements that would otherwise prevent these qualifying projects from being built

--- page 71 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
to the density provided by the bill. As an example, Measure P currently imposes a building height limitation of 55 feet 
throughout most of the city. While the provisions (i.e. additional three stories or up to 33 feet) of AB 1763 preempt the 
City of San Mateo’s height limits, existing zoning development standards and design guidelines effectively restrict design 
considerations for taller buildings with higher densities which have different design needs. 
 
On March 24, 2020, staff brought forward a Code Amendment to address such issues and the Planning Commission 
recommended City Council approval with 3-1 support. However, following the Commission recommendation, staff decided 
to conduct further analysis of the ordinance’s potential environmental impacts in accordance with the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). Additionally, staff recommends a different approach to the Code Amendment, allowing 
greater flexibility and case-by-case analysis of the proposed deviations. The additional CEQA analysis as well as the 
updated Code Amendment will be scheduled again for Planning Commission consideration at a future meeting in order to 
make a recommendation to the City Council.  The following deviations would need to be considered for this project: 
 
1. Street Wall Plane. The City’s street wall plane requirement establishes maximum building height along the street 
frontage. The requirement states that the maximum building height for the street wall is equal to the horizontal 
distance between the midpoint of the public right-of-way and the parcel boundary, or 36 feet, whichever is 
greater. This requirement significantly cuts into the buildable area of a site. The project is seeking relief from the 
street wall plane requirement to allow for the construction of additional affordable housing units in the 
aforementioned areas that would be prohibited by the street wall plane. 
2. Private Open Space. The City’s minimum private open space requirement in the CBD/S zone is 80 sq. ft. per unit or 
common open space equal to at least 150 percent of the private open space requirement, or a combination of 
both. The project would be required to provide 27,000 sq. ft. (225 units x 80 sq. ft. x 150 percent) based on the 
existing requirement. The project has maximized open space where possible but would lose ground-floor 
amenities such the learning center, bike room, and community room should it be required to meet the current 
requirement. The project currently proposes approximately 21,004 sq. ft. of common open space, or 
approximately 25 percent less than the required open space area.  
3. Compact Parking Spaces. The City allows for new projects to provide up to 40 percent of required parking spaces 
to be compact parking. The proposed parking garage is located next to a railroad easement which limits the 
developable lot area. As such, the proposed project needs approximately 66 percent of the total spaces in the 
garage to be compact parking stalls to be able to provide the required parking for the project and allow for 
efficient vehicle circulation in the garage.  
4. Building Line and Setback. The City’s building line and setback requirement establishes building setbacks based on 
the location of adjacent buildings. The requirement states that new construction may have a setback of up to 10 
feet for street and side yards, except that new construction must build up to the property line when a structure on 
an abutting property, on the same side of the street, is also built to the property line. While this requirement does 
not impact the project’s ability to add density, the applicant is seeking relief from the requirement to build to the 
property line to allow for a perimeter of landscaping around the residential building; the building setback would 
vary from 1 foot 8 inches to 7 feet 0 inches (21 feet at the plaza).  
 
 
Design Review 
The originally proposed five-story design presented to the Planning Commission on April 23, 2019, was reviewed by the 
City’s design review consultant, Larry Cannon of Cannon Design Group. Mr. Cannon provided review letters on August 22, 
and November 15, 2019, which looked at the project’s design in terms of consistency with the General Plan Urban Design 
Element and Downtown Area Plan, as well as to review the applicant’s response to his previously provided comments and 
those expressed by the Planning Commission. Staff worked with the applicant to address the stated concerns identified in 
the review letters. Provided below is a summary of the design changes the applicant has made in response to comments 
provided by Mr. Cannon and voiced by the community:

--- page 72 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
• 
Windows along cement plaster wall sections have been recessed 2-inches to provide shadowing and depth along 
the flat exterior wall surfaces 
• 
Two rows of plantings (varied in height) provide softening of patio railings and screening of the cement patio bases 
at street-level; spacing between the railing panels has been widened to create greater transparency 
• 
Ventilated wall panels and vertical mesh fins added along southern elevation (facing train tracks) and 5th Avenue 
of the parking garage to break up monotony and provide opportunity public art, color, or pattern to create visual 
interest 
 
Given the changes to the project’s design in adding two additional stories to the residential building, Mr. Cannon was 
asked again to provide a formal review of the new design which was submitted to the City on April 1, 2020. His letter 
acknowledged that the applicant had largely addressed the design concerns provided in his previous reviews and that the 
overall design is well done for a project of this scale. He did identify two issues that may warrant further consideration, 
which have been included in the discussion items section of this report. The April 1, 2020, design review letter can be 
found in Attachment 7. 
 
Sustainable Design 
The applicant will be designing and building the structure to meet California Green Building Code mandatory measures. 
These sustainable measures include but are not limited to: minimizing contributions to the waste stream both during 
construction and after the building is occupied; minimizing the site’s storm water runoff; using sustainable building 
products that are renewable and with low toxicity; and selecting efficient, low-energy electrical and mechanical systems. 
Utilizing sustainable building practices creates a healthy environment for the building’s users and a structure with low 
impact on the environment. In addition, this project complies with the City’s adopted Green Building and Energy Reach 
Codes in that it will provide an on-site solar hot water system for the housing development and solar roof panels on the 
public parking garage. Additionally, 81 of the 532 total public parking spaces will be electric vehicle (EV) ready (10 percent) 
or have electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE) installed (five percent). A total of 25 (15 percent) of the 164 proposed 
residential parking spaces will be EV ready.  
 
Sidewalk Requirements 
The project will be evaluated for consistency with the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan. 
 
The City of San Mateo Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan, A.5 Sidewalk Standards - Residential Type C New Development 
requires an overall minimum sidewalk width of at least 9 feet 6 inches, which includes a 4- to 6-foot planter/furniture 
zone, a 5 to 6-foot through zone, and a 6-inch curb. The project proposes a typical overall sidewalk width of 10 foot 6 
inches with a 4-foot planter/furniture zone, a 6-foot through zone, and a 6-inch curb along the E. 4th Avenue and S. 
Claremont Street frontages. The sidewalk standard for E. 5th Avenue along the garage frontage also follows A.5 Sidewalk 
Standards - Residential Type C New Development for consistency with the residential frontage. The sidewalk standard for 
E. 5th Avenue along the residential frontage follows A.4 Sidewalk Standards - Residential Type B Constrained due to the 
constrained Right-of-Way. The sidewalk standard requires an overall sidewalk width of 7-feet, which includes a 1 foot 6 
inch utilities and signage zone, a 5-foot through zone, and a 6-inch curb. The sidewalk area located along South Railroad 
Avenue is located within Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board right-of-way. Please see Attachment 8 for the referenced 
Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan sidewalk standards. 
 
DISCUSSION ITEMS 
In addition to comments regarding the general architectural style and design approach of the new proposal, staff is 
requesting the Planning Commission discuss the following design focused items in response to concerns raised during 
community meetings and the previous Planning Commission study-session:  
 
Color Palette Alternatives 
In response to feedback received from community members’ asking for a warmer building design, the project’s 
architectural team developed alternative color palette schemes aimed at creating a lighter appearance and warmer visual 
aesthetic. One proposed color scheme utilizes a light parchment color for the cement plaster walls and a dark muted 
brown for the fiber cement siding while cement panel accents are incorporated throughout the building in a lighter

--- page 73 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
chestnut brown. The alternative color palette utilizes a brighter contrasting but complementary scheme. Cream colored 
cement plaster walls are contrasted with sage green colored siding and cement panel accents are presented in a matte 
black finish. Renderings of both color palette schemes will be presented to the Planning Commission at study-session.  
 
Brick Veneer Finish Material 
As an additional strategy to add warmth to the modern residential building design, the applicant is proposing the use of a 
traditional building material in the form of an off-white/gray colored brick veneer. The brick veneer is proposed on the 
ground-floor along the west elevation fronting E. 4th Avenue and the east elevation fronting E. 5th Avenue.  
 
Shared Parking Arrangement 
Concerns were expressed by the Commissioners during the previous study-session as well as by members of the public 
during community meetings whether adequate parking was being provided for the project’s future tenants. In response, 
staff is considering a shared parking arrangement whereby the residents would be allowed to use a portion of the spaces 
in the public parking section of the garage for overnight and weekend parking. Given that the public parking garage is 
expected to primarily serve Downtown employees and is anticipated to have peak usage midweek during business hours, 
this shared arrangement is anticipated to work well.  
 
Design Review Comments 
The City’s design review consultant identified the following design issues with the currently proposed design. Staff is asking 
for Planning Commission input on these issues: 
1. The newly designed South Railroad Avenue-facing façade does not include the same visually interesting 
architectural elements of the previous design, such as the projecting bays which broke up the now taller middle 
section of the building. 
2. Additional articulation to the building façades may aid in providing a better transition to the smaller scaled 
neighborhood adjacent to the project site.    
 
ENTITLEMENTS 
As proposed, the project is anticipated to require the following planning approvals: 
• 
Site Plan and Architectural Review for 1) the demolition of the existing improvements and the construction of two 
new  buildings; and 2) an on-street loading zone 
• 
Site Development Permit Application for the removal of major vegetation (trees) 
• 
Special Use Permit for a parking facility  
 
Please see Attachment 9 for sample Findings for Approval. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
Due to the substantial change to the residential building’s design, the applicant held an additional formal neighborhood 
meeting on February 24, 2020. Approximately 64 community members were in attendance. Provided below is a summary 
of the primary questions and comments raised during the meeting: 
 
• 
Noise – How will the project deal with noise from the trains nearby; why doesn’t the city have double gates to 
allow trains to pass through without blowing their horn?  
• 
Traffic – Traffic issues in Downtown will be exacerbated; is there a traffic study being conducted; how will the City 
deal with any increased traffic? 
• 
Affordable Housing – Supportive of the project bringing more affordable housing to San Mateo; thankful the 
project could provide housing opportunities for individuals with development disabilities; accessibility concerns for 
those with physical disabilities. 
• 
Building Height – Concerns about adding (two additional stories) to the height of the building; does State Law 
preempt local law (i.e. Measure P)? 
 
The attendees also had questions regarding where the City will relocate the Workers Resource Center, affordability levels, 
safety concerns related to the adjacent PG&E substation, sufficiency of the proposed tenant parking (i.e. number of stalls),

--- page 74 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
hours of operation for the garage, light pollution, opportunity to place art along the garage’s north wall, and the possibility 
of placing parking underground. A summary of the February 24, 2020, formal neighborhood meeting is included in 
Attachment 10.  
 
In addition to the formal neighborhood meeting, the project team met separately with the Central Neighborhood 
Homeowners Association on January 28, 2020, and with the North Central Homeowners Association on February 27, 2020.  
 
Additional public comments submitted to the City including formal letters from non-profit organizations and a 
neighborhood association are included in Attachment 11. Please note, personal information has been redacted from the 
correspondence. 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION: 
This study-session is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5)). 
 
An Initial Study Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS-MND) is currently being prepared for the project in conformance with 
the California Environmental Quality Act.  
 
NOTICE PROVIDED 
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the city’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this 
study session was noticed to the following parties more than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission study-
session: 
• 
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site; 
• 
The city’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects; 
• 
The city’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and, 
• 
The interested parties list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list. 
 
ATTACHMENTS 
Att 1 – Project Plans 
Att 2 – Location Map 
Att 3 – Applicable General Plan Elements and Policies 
Att 4 – Applicable Downtown Plan Policies 
Att 5 – Factual Data Sheet 
Att 6 – Draft Density Bonus Letter 
Att 7 – Design Review Letter (April 1, 2020) 
Att 8 – City of San Mateo Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan – Applicable Sidewalk Standards 
Att 9 – Sample Findings for Planning Application Approvals 
Att 10 – February 24, 2020, Formal Neighborhood Meeting Minutes 
Att 11 – Public Comments 
 
 
STAFF CONTACT 
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner 
pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7218

--- page 75 ---
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:39:07
PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
2019
G000 - COVER SHEET
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
480 EAST 4TH AVE + 400 EAST 5TH AVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
ARCHITECT
BAR ARCHITECTS
901 BATTERY STREET, SUITE 300
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 9411
415-293-5700
BRADLEY SUGARMAN
BSUGARMAN@BARARCH.COM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
CIVIL ENGINEER
BKF ENGINEERS
1730 NORTH FIRST STREET, SUITE 600
SAN JOSE, CA 95112
408-467-9154
DOUG PETERSEN
DPETERSEN@BKF.COM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
MILLER COMPANY LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS
1585 FOLSOM STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94103
415-252-7288 ext. 104
MAYA NAGASAKA
NAGASAKA@MILLERCOMP.COM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
JOINT TRENCH ENGINEER
VISION UTILITY PARTNERS
6400 VILLAGE PARKWAY, SUITE 204
DUBLIN, CA 94568
925-682-1114
TIM NGUYEN
TNGUYEN@VISIONUTILITY.COM
PROJECT TEAM
TEL:
CONTACT:
EMAIL:
OWNER
MP DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO ASSOCIATES, LP
303 VINTAGE PARK DR, SUITE 250
FOSTER CITY, CA 94404
650-357-9766
MOLLIE NABER
MOLLIE.NABER@MIDPEN-HOUSING.ORG
03.04.20 ENTITLEMENT APPLICATION (7 STORY BLOCK) 
04.06.20 ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL (7 STORY BLOCK)
Att 1 – Project Plans

--- page 76 ---
PROJECT SITE
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
S CLAREMONT ST
S RAILROAD AVE 
3RD AVE
S DELAWARE ST
S ELDORADO ST
S B ST
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/17/2020 2:59:40 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PROJECT INFORMATION
2019
G001
04.15.20
SHEET INDEX
VICINITY MAP
00 - GENERAL
G000
COVER SHEET
G001
PROJECT INFORMATION
G002
PROJECT DATA
G003
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAM - BUILDING AREA
G004
LEVEL 01 - ACCESS PLAN
G005
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS
G006
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS - HOUSING EGRESS
G007
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS - HOUSING EGRESS
G008
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS - GARAGE EGRESS
01 - CIVIL
C1.0
EXISTING CONDITIONS
C2.0
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
C2.1
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
C3.0
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN
C4.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
C5.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
02 - LANDSCAPE
L100
LANDSCAPE PLAN - SITE PLAN
L101
LANDSCAPE PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
L102
LANDSCAPE PLAN - PARKING GARAGE
L103
LANDSCAPE PLAN - 7TH FLOOR
L104
LANDSCAPE STREETSCAPE SECTIONS
L200
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS SCHEDULE AND PLAN (HOUSING)
L201
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN ( PARKING GARAGE)
L202
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN (7TH FLOOR)
L203
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS AND FURNISHING
L300
LANDSCAPE PLANTING SCHEDULE
L301
LANDSCAPE PLANT PALETTE
L400
TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
L401
TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN - PARKING GARAGE
L402
ARBORIST REPORT BY SBCA TREE CONSULTING
L403
ARBORIST REPORT APPENDIX BY SBCA TREE CONSULTING
L404
TREE EVALUATION SCHEDULE & REQUIRED TREE PLANTING FORM
04 - ARCHITECTURAL
A102
SITE PLAN - OVERALL
A103
SITE SECTION
A104
SHADOW STUDY
A110
SITE PHOTOS
A201
SITE & FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - HOUSING BLOCK
A202
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - HOUSING BLOCK
A203
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - HOUSING BLOCK
A204
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - HOUSING BLOCK
A205
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - HOUSING BLOCK
A206
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 06 - HOUSING BLOCK
A207
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 07 - HOUSING BLOCK
A208
ROOF PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
A211
SITE & FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - PARKING LOT
A212
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - PARKING LOT
A213
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - PARKING LOT
A214
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - PARKING LOT
A215
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - PARKING LOT
A216
ROOF PLAN - PARKING LOT
A301
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
A302
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
A311
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - GARAGE
A312
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - GARAGE
A321
BUILDING SECTIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
A322
BUILDING SECTIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
A323
BUILDING SECTIONS - GARAGE
A331
PRECEDENT IMAGERY
A332
PEDESTRIAL BRIDGE DESIGN
A333
SOLAR PANEL AT GARAGE IMAGERY
A334
MATERIAL BOARD
A401
PERSPECTIVE - E 4TH AVE & S RAILROAD AVE
A402
PERSPECTIVE - ALTERNATIVE COLOR SCHEME
A403
PERSPECTIVE - S CLAREMONT ST SIDEWALK
A404
PERSPECTIVE - S CLAREMONT ST SIDEWALK
A405
PERSPECTIVE - E 5TH AVE & S CLAREMONT ST
A406
PERSPECTIVE - E 5TH AVE & S RAILROAD AVE
A501
ENLARGED UNIT PLANS
A511
OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
TOTAL: 68
PROJECT MILESTONES
ENTITLEMENT APPLICATION - 5 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
07/10/2019
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL #1 
09/10/2019
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL #1 - RESPONSE TO DESIGN REVIEW COMMENTS 
09/27/2019
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL #2
11/08/2019
ENTITLEMENT APPLICATION - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
03/04/2020
ENTITLEMENT RESUBMITTAL - 7 STORY HOUSING BLOCK
04/06/2020
PROJECT SUMMARY
PROJECT ADDRESS:
480 EAST 4TH AVE & 400 EAST 5TH AVE, SAN MATEO, CA
ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NO.:
034-183-060 & 033-281-140 
ZONING:
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD) - SUPPORT DISTRICT
LOT AREA:
50,587 SQ FT (4TH AVE) & 54,471 SQFT(5TH AVE)
CONSTRUCTION TYPE:
TYPE IIIA OVER TYPE IA (4TH AVE) & TYPE IA (5TH AVE)
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
THE CURRENT CITY-OWNED REDEVELOPMENT SITES CONSISTS OF TWO PARCELS WITH A TOTAL OF 
235 SURFACE PARKING STALLS. THE PROJECT IS TO REDEVELOP THE SITES INTO AFFORDABLE 
HOUSING CONSISTING OF 225 UNITS (234,372 SF) AND AN ABOVE-GROUND PARKING GARAGE 
WITH A MINIMUM OF 164 PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PARKING STALLS AND A MINIMUM OF 532 PUBLIC 
PARKING STALLS. THE TOTAL NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES IS 696 STALLS ( NOT EXPECTED TO 
EXCEED 715) THE PROJECT ALSO INCLUDES LONG-TERM BICYCLE STORAGE FOR 288 BIKES. 
HOUSING BLOCK (4TH AVE)
OCCUPANCY:
R-2
PARKING BLOCK (5TH AVE)
OCCUPANCY:
S-2
STORIES / HEIGHT ALLOWED:
55'-0" (4TH AVE) / 55'-0" (5TH AVE)
STORIES / HEIGHT PROPOSED:
74'-5" (4TH AVE) / 46'-0" (5TH AVE)
BUILDING DENSITY ALLOWED:
50 DU/ACRE AS PERMITTED IN THE CBD-S  (NO DENSITY LIMITATIONS AS PROVIDED BY AB 1763)
   
BUILDING DENSITY PROPOSED:
225 / 2.41 ACRE = 93.36 DU/ACRE (4TH AVE PARCEL + 5TH AVE PARCEL)
FAR ALLOWED:
3.00
FAR PROPOSED:
4.28
4TH AVE FAR:
234,374 SQ FT / 50,587 SQ FT = 4.63 
5TH AVE FAR:
215,099 SQ FT / 54,471 SQ FT = 3.95 
(*5TH AVE FAR - EXCLUDES UNCOVERED PARKING AND RAILROAD EASEMENT)
TOTAL PLOT
(234,374 SQ FT + 215,099 SQ FT) / (50,587 SQ FT + 54,471  SQ FT) = 
449,473 SQ FT / 105,058 SQ FT = 4.28
EXISTING  STRUCTURES: 
LOCATED ON PARCEL: 033-281-140
EXISTING STRUCTURES: 2,800 SQ FT
LIST OF ALL HERITAGE TREES ON SITE INCLUDING SPECIES AND SIZE: REFERENCE ARBORIST REPORT AND SHEET  L402-404
APPLICABLE CODES & REGULATIONS
1. 
CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS, TITLE 24, PUBLISHED BY THE CALIFORNIA BUILDING STANDARDS COMMISSION:
• 
PART 2, "2019 CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE" (CBC)
• 
PART 3, "2019 CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE" (CEC)
• 
PART 4, "2019 CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE" (CMC)
• 
PART 5, "2019 CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE" (CPC)
• 
PART 6, "2019 CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE"
• 
PART 9, "2019 CALIFORNIA FIRE CODE" (CFC)
• 
PART 11, "2019 CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE"
ALONG WITH ANY OTHER APPLICABLE CALIFORNIA STATE LAWS AND REGULATIONS OR WITH ANY OTHER APPLICABLE LOCAL MORE 
RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS AND ADOPTED ORDINANCES THAT APPLY TO THE CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS.
2. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE
DENSITY BONUS LAW CONCESSIONS AND WAIVERS
CONCESSIONS
1. 
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR)
THE MAXIMUM FAR FOR THE 480 EAST 4TH AVE & 400 EAST 5TH AVE SITE IS 3.0. IN ORDER TO BUILD A GARAGE 
THAT HAS THE REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING STALLS, WE WILL NEED APPROVAL FOR A FAR OF 4.28.
2.
RESIDENTIAL PARKING ON SEPARATE SITE
INCLUDING ON-SITE RESIDENTIAL PARKING WOULD PHYSICALLY PRECLUDE THE PROJECT AT THE DENSITY AND 
CONCESSIONS PROPOSED. THIS WOULD BE A WAIVER REGARDING SECTION 27.64.060 (2) OF THE CITY’S 
MUNICIPAL CODE.
3.
BULK
UNDER LOCAL MUNICIPAL CODE 27.40.030, THE BULK STANDARDS FOR BUILDINGS WITH A HEIGHT BETWEEN 56' -
75' ARE ALLOWED MAXIMUM BUILDING DIMENSION OF 150 LINEAL FEET AND MAXIMUM DIAGONAL DIMENSION 
OF 170 FEET. THE 480 EAST 4TH AVE SITE DOES NOT MEET THIS CRITERIA. UNDER THE VARIATION CRITERIA, THE 
BUILDING DOES NOT MEET CRITERIA B AND EXCEEDS THE 40% PARCEL COVERAGE.
(CALIFORNIA GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION 65915)
CODE AMMENDMENTS
1. 
WAIVER OF THE STREET WALL PLANE REQUIREMENT
COMPLYING WITH THE STREET WALL PLANE REQUIREMENT WOULD PHYSICALLY PRECLUDE THE DEVELOPMENT 
AT THE DENSITY PROPOSED, AS IT WOULD  RESULT IN THE LOSS OF TWO, 1-BEDROOM UNITS AND AN 
ADDITIONAL 8 BEDROOMS FROM FAMILY UNITS ON THE TOP FLOOR. THIS WOULD BE AN AMMENDMENT 
REGARDING STREET WALL AREA REQUIREMENTS IN THE BUILDING HEIGHT AND BULK PLAN IN THE DOWNTOWN 
SPECIFIC PLAN.
2.
INCREASE NUMBER OF COMPACT PARKING SPACES
SINCE WE DECREASED THE WIDTH OF THE GARAGE STRUCTURE TO AVOID INTRUSION INTO A RAILROAD 
EASMENT, WE WILL NEED APPROVAL FOR APPROXIMATELY 459 COMPACT PARKING STALLS (APPROXIMATELY 
66% OF THE TOTAL SPACES). UNDERGROUNDING APPROXIMATELY 123 STALLS TO AVOID EXCEEDING THE 40% 
THRESHOLD FOR TOTAL COMPACT SPACES WOULD BE COST PROHIBITIVE. THIS WOULD BE AN AMMENDMENT 
REGARDING SECTION 27.64.265 OF THE CITY'S MUNICIPAL CODE.
3.
BUILDLING LINE AND SETBACK
THE BUILDING LINE AND SETBACK REGULATION WOULD PHYSICALLY PRECLUDE THE DEVELOPMENT AT THE 
DENSITY PROPOSED AS IT WOULD RESULT IN THE LOSS OF THE PUBLIC PLAZA PEOPOSED AT 4TH AVENUE. THIS 
WOULD AN AMMENDMENT REGARDING SECTION 27.39.090 OF THE CITY'S MUNICIPAL CODE.
4.
OPEN SPACE
COMPLYING TO THE OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT WOULD RESULT IN LOSS OF UNITS OR A SIGNIFICANT 
REDUCTION OF OTHER AMENITIES THAT ARE DESIGNED TO SERVE THE RESIDENTS. WE HAVE, HOWEVER, 
MAXIMIZED OPEN SPACE WHEREVER POSSIBLE, INCLUDING SPACES ON UPPER LEVELS. THIS WOULD BE AN 
AMMENDMENT REGARDING SECTION 27.22.100.
BUILDING SETBACKS - HOUSING BLOCK
NORTH (S CLAREMONT ST)
2'-9" (CLOSEST) / 6'-9" (FARTHEST)
EAST (E 5TH AVE)
4'-0" (CLOSEST) / 7'-0" (FARTHEST)
SOUTH (S RAILROAD AVE)
1'-8" (CLOSEST) / 6'-3" (FARTHEST)
WEST (E 4TH AVE)
3'-0" (CLOSEST) / 21'-0" (FARTHEST/PLAZA)
BUILDING SETBACKS - PARKING BLOCK
NORTH (S CLAREMONT ST)
0'-9"
EAST
10'-6"
SOUTH (S RAILROAD AVE)
12'-6"
WEST (E 5TH AVE)
1'-6"

--- page 77 ---
** As calculated in the Preliminary Building Area Tabulation
* Unit GSF includes exterior, corridor and party walls
Average Unit Size (GSF)
820
Residential GSF**
184,531
AVERAGE UNIT SIZE
%
29%
21%
24%
26%
100%
TOT...
65
48
53
59
225
1
6
3
6
6
21
2
10
7
8
9
34
3
11
8
8
9
36
4
11
8
8
9
36
5
9
8
8
9
34
6
9
8
8
9
34
7
9
6
7
8
30
468 GSF
624 GSF typ. 884 GSF typ.
1,144 GSF
18'x26'
24'x26' typ
34'x26' typ.
44'x26'
TOTAL
LEVEL
STUDIO
1 BR
2 BR
3 BR
UNIT
PRELIMINARY UNIT MIX* - 7 STORY SCHEME
**** Total Floor Area equals the Garage GSF minus the Exempt GSF
Exemptions include - Uncovered parking on Level 05, and elevator shafts and stairwells on all levels above ground level
*** Residential Exempted Area GSF excludes areas per the City of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.94.200
* Garage Total GSF includes all spaces inside garage footprint, such as mechanical/utility spaces, etc
NOTES:
Total
238,465
23,366
215,099
1
47,693
0
47,693
2
47,693
605
47,089
3
47,693
605
47,089
4
47,693
605
47,089
5
47,693
21,553
26,140
Level
Garage GSF*
Exempt GSF***
Total Floor Area****
Garage
Garage
Garage
PRELIMINARY GARAGE AREA TABULATIONS
04/17/2020
**** Total Floor Area is the sum of the Residential GSF and Amenity GSF minus the Exempt GSF
Exemptions include - Bicycle facilities, exterior walkways, and elevator shafts and stairwells on all levels above ground level
*** Residential Exempted Area GSF excludes areas per the City of San Mateo Municipal Code Section 27.94.200
** Residential Amenity GSF includes entry lobby, leasing offices, community room, fitness room, laundry room, maintenance offices,...
* Residential Floor Area GSF includes Exempt GSF -Residdential GSF includes units, corridors, utility rooms, mechanical rooms, etc.
NOTES:
Total
231,539
11,272
8,436
234,374
1
28,899
4,741
2,687
30,953
2
33,499
470
1,012
32,957
3
34,727
470
687
34,511
4
34,727
470
687
34,511
5
34,727
470
687
34,511
6
34,727
470
687
34,511
7
30,233
4,181
1,992
32,422
Level
Residential GSF*
Amenity GSF**
Exempt GSF***
Total Floor Area****
Residential
Residential
Residential
Residential
PRELIMINARY BUILDING AREA TABULATIONS
04/17/2020
(Multiplier)
* Bike parking calculated per San Mateo municipal code, 27.64.262
**** Commercial Clean Air Vehicle requirements per Cal Green Non-Residential Mandatory Measures
* Long term bike parking is secured Class I spaces
uses per table 5.106.5.3.3 (10-25 stalls : 1 EV stalls)
Total Bike Parking Provided
288
*** Per CAL Green Non-Residential Mandatory Measures - EV stalls to be provided for non-residential
Total Bike Parking Required
288
spaces to be EV capable with 5% EVSE installed.
65.00
48.00
66.25
88.50
267.75
** Per San Mateo REACH code 15% Residential spaces to be EV capable and 15% Non Residential
Long term bike
parking
1.00
1.00
1.25
1.50
* EV and Clean Air stalls included in "required" and "provided" parking calculations
3.25
2.40
5.30
8.85
19.80
Short term bike
parking
0.05
0.05
0.10
0.15
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Provided
7
TYPE
STUDIO
1 BR
2 BR
3 BR
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Required
7
BIKE PARKING*
Bike Total
Non-Residential Amblutory EVCS
81
3%
3
BICYCLE PARKING CALCULATIONS*
Non-Residential Standard Accessible EVCS***
81
3%
3
Non-Residential Van Accessible EVCS**
81
1%
1
Stall count
Percent
PARKING STALLS
EV Total
NON-RESIDENTIAL ACCESSIBLE (EV) PARKING CALCULATIONS*
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Provided
81
Total Residential EV Compliant Parking Provided
25
Total Non-Residential EV Compliant Parking Required
81
Total Residential EV Compliant Parking Required
25
Minimum Standard EVCS
24
Non-Residential equipped with level 2 EVSE***
532
5%
27
Minimum Van EVCS
25
4%
1
Non-Residential Future EVSE**
532
10%
54
Residential Future EVCS
164
15%
25
Stall count
Percent
Stall count
Percent
PARKING STALLS
EV Total
PARKING STALLS
EV Total
NON-RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV) PARKING CALCULATIONS*
RESIDENTIAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV) PARKING CALCULATIONS*
**Count includes Van Accessible Spaces per CBC 11B-208.2.4
* Accessible stalls included in "required" and "provided" parking calculations
*Residential secured stalls are secured from others per SMMC Section 23.54.030
Total Accessible Parking Provided
13
Total Assigned Residential Accessible Parking Provided
4
Total Non-Residential Accessible Parking Required
9
Total Assigned Residential Accessible Parking Required
4
Minimum number of Standard Stalls
6
Minimum number of Standard Accessible Stalls
3
Minimum number of Van Stalls (1 in ever 6)
3
Minimum number of Van Accessible stalls (1 in every *)
1
Non-Residential Parking at 2% of stalls
451
2%
9
Residential Parking at 2% of stalls
164
2%
4
Stall count
Percent
Stall count
Percent
PARKING STALLS
Accessible Total
PARKING STALLS
Accessible Total
NON-RESIDENTIAL ACCESSIBLE PARKING CALCULATION*
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSIBLE PARKING CALCULATION*
** Parallel spaces are included in level 01 'Standard' stall tabulation
**See Residential Accessible parking calulation of division of Accessible parking stalls
* EV count includes EV Accessible, EV Van Spaces, and EV Amblutory spaces
* EV Accessible Van Spaces included in count
Total
81
357
13
81
532
Total
33
102
4
25
164
1
16
88
4
10
118
1
0
0
0
0
0
2
31
98
3
23
155
2
0
0
0
0
0
3
30
98
3
24
155
3
0
0
0
0
0
4
4
73
3
24
104
4
24
23
0
0
47
5
0
0
0
0
0
5
9
79
4
25
117
8'-6" x 18' MIN. 8'-6" x 17' MIN.
9' x 18' MIN.
9" x 18' MIN.
8'-6" x 18' MIN. 8'-6" x 17' MIN.
9' x 18' MIN.
9" x 18' MIN.
Level
Standard
Compact
Accessible
 EV Ready*
(15%)
Total
Level
Standard
Compact
 Accessible
 EV Ready*
(15%)
Total
NON-RESIDENTIALL PARKING STALLS
RESIDENTIAL PARKING STALLS
ON-SITE STALL DISTRIBUTION
ON-SITE STALL DISTRIBUTION
PARKING TABULATION
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/17/2020 10:55:01 AM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PROJECT DATA
2019
G002
04.15.20

--- page 78 ---
UP
AREA LEGEND
EXEMPT
PARKING
49,478 SF
GARAGE SITE AREA
RAILROAD EASEMENT
12' - 5 1/2"
SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN
Date:
Scale:
Drawing Number:
Project Phase:
480 EAST 4TH AVE + 400 EAST 5TH AVE SAN MATEO, CA 94401
BAR
As indicated
04.15.20
G0 - 01
--
AREA PLAN - GARAGE
1" = 30'-0"
LEVEL 01-G
Area Schedule (Rentable) - Garage
ze
Area
Name
Comments
LEVEL 05-G
26,140.3 SF
EXEMPT
GARAGE
LEVEL 05-G
21,552.7 SF
PARKING
GARAGE
LEVEL 05-G
47,693.0 SF
LEVEL 04-G
604.5 SF
EXEMPT
GARAGE
LEVEL 04-G
47,088.5 SF
PARKING
GARAGE
LEVEL 04-G
47,693.0 SF
LEVEL 03-G
604.5 SF
EXEMPT
GARAGE
LEVEL 03-G
47,088.5 SF
PARKING
GARAGE
LEVEL 03-G
47,693.0 SF
LEVEL 02-G
604.5 SF
EXEMPT
GARAGE
LEVEL 02-G
47,088.5 SF
PARKING
GARAGE
LEVEL 02-G
47,693.0 SF
LEVEL 01-G
47,693.0 SF
PARKING
GARAGE
LEVEL 01-G
47,693.0 SF
Grand total:
21
238,465.0 SF
1" = 30'-0"
LEVEL 02-G
1" = 30'-0"
LEVEL 03-G
1" = 30'-0"
LEVEL 04-G
1" = 30'-0"
LEVEL 05-G
1" = 40'-0"
GARAGE SITE AREA

--- page 79 ---
AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
EXEMPT
RESIDENTIAL
BICYCLE 
FACILITY
EXTERIOR COVERED 
WALKWAYS
ELEVATOR SHAFTS &
STAIRWELLS ON LEVELS
ABOVE GROUND FLOOR,
TYP
50,587 SF
RES SITE AREA
SAN MATEO DOWNTOWN
Date:
Scale:
Drawing Number:
Project Phase:
480 EAST 4TH AVE + 400 EAST 5TH AVE SAN MATEO, CA 94401
BAR
1" = 40'-0"
04.15.20
G0 - 02
--
HOUSING FLOOR AREA PLAN
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 01
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 02
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 03
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 04
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 05
AREA SCHEDULE (RENTABLE)
LEVEL
AREA
NAME
COMMENTS
LEVEL 07
4,181.1 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 07
1,991.5 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 07
28,241.2 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 07
34,413.8 SF
LEVEL 06
470.0 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 06
686.6 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 06
34,040.5 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 06
35,197.1 SF
LEVEL 05
470.0 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 05
686.6 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 05
34,040.5 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 05
35,197.1 SF
LEVEL 04
470.0 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 04
686.6 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 04
34,040.5 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 04
35,197.1 SF
LEVEL 03
470.0 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 03
686.6 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 03
34,040.5 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 03
35,197.1 SF
LEVEL 02
470.0 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 02
1,011.8 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 02
32,487.0 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 02
33,968.8 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
4,740.5 SF
AMENITY
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2,686.7 SF
EXEMPT
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
26,212.2 SF
RESIDENTIAL
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
33,639.4 SF
Grand total
242,810.4 SF
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 06
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 07
1" = 40'-0"
RESIDENTIAL SITE AREA

--- page 80 ---
BLDG E
BLDG E
BLDG E
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
FRONTAGE
FRONTAGE
FRONTAGE
BLDG A
BLDG B
IMAGINARY LINE
111' - 0"
104' - 7"
BLDG D
BLDG C
61' - 0" L-2
67' - 4" L-3
104' - 0" L-1
44' - 10" L-5
L-4
20' - 8"
L-8
27' - 0"
44' - 4" L-6
L-7
29' - 10"
L-9
29' - 0"
L-10
15' - 0"
127' - 0" L-11
104' - 0"
117' - 8"
142' - 0"
72' - 7"
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
BLDG B
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
IMAGINARY LINE
BLDG A
BLDG C
BLDG D
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
BLDG B
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
IMAGINARY LINE
BLDG A
BLDG C
BLDG D
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
BLDG B
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
IMAGINARY LINE
BLDG A
BLDG C
BLDG D
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
BLDG B
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
IMAGINARY LINE
BLDG A
BLDG C
BLDG D
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
3 HR HORIZONTAL
SEPARATION
TYPE IIIA
TYPE IIIA
TYPE IA
TYPE IA
5 STORIES
49' - 0"
2 STORIES
21' - 8"
BLDG A
BLDG A
BLDG C
BLDG C
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:39:17 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAM - BUILDING AREA
2019
G003
04.06.20
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 01 - BUILDING AREA
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 02 - BUILDING AREA
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 03 - BUILDING AREA
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 04 - BUILDING AREA
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 05 - BUILDING AREA
BUILDING CODE AREAS
ALLOWABLE AREA
OCC. GROUP
FACTOR (At = SM)
ALLOWABLE AREA PER BLDG
BUILDING AREA
CONSTRUCTION TYPE
TABLE 506.2
NS
IF
Sa
*Aa=[At + (NS X If) X Sa
ACTUAL AREA
BLDG AREA A
R-2, TYPE lllA
24,000 SF
24,000
0.17
2
56,160 SF
SEE AREA TABLE
BLDG AREA B
R-2, TYPE lllA
24,000 SF
24,000
0
2
48,000 SF
SEE AREA TABLE
BLDG AREA C
R-2, TYPE IA
24,000 SF
24,000
O
2
48,000 SF
SEE AREA TABLE
BLDG AREA D
R-2, TYPE IA
24,000 SF
24,000
O
2
48,000 SF
SEE AREA TABLE
BLDG AREA E
R-2, TYPE IA
UNLIMITED
NA
NA
NA
UNLIMITED
SEE AREA TABLE
*Aa=[24,000 + (24,000 X 0) X 2 = 48,000 SF = TOTAL ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA WITH SPRINKLER INCREASE FOR HEIGHT AND NO FRONTAGE INCREASE
**Aa=[24,000 + (24,000 X 0) X 1 = 24,000 SF = TOTAL ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA PER STORY WITH SPRINKLER INCREASE FOR HEIGHT AND NO FRONTAGE INCREASE
BUILDING AREAS - A
Level
AREA
BUILDING AREA
LEVEL 07
8,257 SF
BLDG A
LEVEL 06
10,922 SF
BLDG A
LEVEL 05
10,969 SF
BLDG A
LEVEL 04
10,969 SF
BLDG A
LEVEL 03
10,969 SF
BLDG A
TOTAL
52,087 SF
BUILDING AREAS - B
Level
AREA
BUILDING AREA
LEVEL 07
8,778 SF
BLDG B
LEVEL 06
8,512 SF
BLDG B
LEVEL 05
9,396 SF
BLDG B
LEVEL 04
9,396 SF
BLDG B
LEVEL 03
9,396 SF
BLDG B
TOTAL
45,479 SF
BUILDING AREAS - C
Level
AREA
BUILDING AREA
LEVEL 07
8,753 SF
BLDG C
LEVEL 06
8,790 SF
BLDG C
LEVEL 05
8,790 SF
BLDG C
LEVEL 04
8,790 SF
BLDG C
LEVEL 03
8,790 SF
BLDG C
TOTAL
43,913 SF
BUILDING AREA CALCULATION
AMOUNT OF INCREASE CALC:
If = AREA INCREASE DUE TO FRONTAGE
P = BUILDING PERIMETER
F = BUILDING PERIMETER THAT FRONTS 
PUBLIC WAY OR OPEN SPACE HAVING 20 FT MIN 
WIDTH
W = WIDTH: WEIGHTED AVERAGE (PER CBC 506.2.1) 
IF = [F/P - 0.25] X (W/30)
BUILDING AREA A
(NO FRONTAGE INCREASE)
IF = [F/P - 0.25] X (W/30)
P = 583'
F = 246'
W = 30
IF = [246/583 - 0.25] X (30/30) = 0.17
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA PER BLDG = Aa = [At + (NS X If)] X Sa*
*Sa = 2
BUILDING A: Aa = [24,000 SF + (24,000 x 0.17) x 2 = 56,160 SF
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA PER BLDG = Aa = [At + (NS X If)] X Sa*
*Sa = 1
BUILDING A: Aa = [24,000 SF + (24,000 x 0.17) x 1 = 28,080 SF
BUILDING STORY AND HEIGHT
***FACTOR (At = SM)
BUILDING AREA PER
HEIGHT (FT)
STORY
FLOOR (SF)
CONSTRUCTION TYPE
OCCUPANCY
TABLE 504.3
TABLE 504.4
TABLE 506.2.
*TYPE lA
S-2
UNLIMITED
UNLIMITED
UNLIMITED
**TYPE lllA
R-2, A-3 (R-2 ACCESSORY)
85 FT MAX
5 STORIES MAX 
24,000 SF
*INCLUDES ALLOWABLE AREA INCREASE BASED ON SPRINKLER SYSTEM (NFPA 13 SPRINKLER SYSTEM IN ACCORDANCE TO SECTION 903.3.1.1)
**INCLUDES ALLOWABLE STORY INCREASE BASE ON SPRINKLER SYSTEM. IF STORY INCREASE IS TAKEN AREA INCREASE CANNONT BE TAKEN AS WELL.
***SM = SPRINKLER SYSTEM IN ACCORDANCE TO SECTION 903.3.1.1 (NFPA 13 SPRINKLER SYSTEM)
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 06 - BUILDING AREA
1" = 40'-0"
LEVEL 07 - BUILDING AREA
BUILDING AREA B = NO FRONTAGE INCREASE
BUILDING AREA C = NO FRONTAGE INCREASE
BUILDING AREA D = NO FRONTAGE INCREASE
BUILDING AREA E = NO FRONTAGE INCREASE
BUILDING AREAS - D
Level
AREA
BUILDING AREA
LEVEL 07
6,030 SF
BLDG D
LEVEL 06
6,047 SF
BLDG D
LEVEL 05
6,047 SF
BLDG D
LEVEL 04
6,047 SF
BLDG D
LEVEL 03
6,047 SF
BLDG D
TOTAL
30,218 SF
BUILDING AREAS - E
Level
AREA
BUILDING AREA
LEVEL 02
33,995 SF
BLDG E
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM) 33,718 SF
BLDG E
TOTAL
67,713 SF

--- page 81 ---
Box
HOUSING BLOCK
PARKING LOT
VEHICLE ENTRY
*
PEDESTRIAN 
ENTRY
*
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
*
*
PEDESTRIAN 
ENTRY / EXIT
PEDESTRIAN 
ENTRY / EXIT
*
ACCESS FROM DOWNTOWN
ACCESS FROM DOWNTOWN
*
EXIT
VEHICLE ENTRANCE
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL
ACCESSIBLE PATH
LEGEND
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:39:19 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
LEVEL 01 - ACCESS PLAN
2019
G004
04.06.20
15
30
60
90
0
SCALE: 1" = 30'-0"

--- page 82 ---
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
EXTERIOR OPENING ANALYSIS 01:
LEVEL 07:
LEVEL 06:
108 SF
396 SF
LEVEL 05:
108 SF
396 SF
=  28%
108 SF
622 SF
=  28%
=  18%
LEVEL 04:
LEVEL 03:
LEVEL 02:
108 SF
396 SF
LEVEL 01:
108 SF
480 SF
=  23%
108 SF
396 SF
108 SF
396 SF
=  28%
=  28%
=  28%
EXTERIOR OPENING ANALYSIS 02:
LEVEL 07:
LEVEL 06:
108 SF
336 SF
LEVEL 05:
108 SF
336 SF
=  33%
108 SF
528 SF
=  33%
=  21%
LEVEL 04:
LEVEL 03:
LEVEL 02:
108 SF
336 SF
LEVEL 01:
299 SF
218 SF
=  137%
108 SF
336 SF
108 SF
336 SF
=  33%
=  33%
=  33%
EXTERIOR OPENING ANALYSIS 03:
LEVEL 07:
LEVEL 06:
63 SF
211 SF
LEVEL 05:
63 SF
211 SF
=  30%
63 SF
334 SF
=  30%
=  19%
LEVEL 04:
LEVEL 03:
LEVEL 02:
63 SF
211 SF
LEVEL 01:
63 SF
235 SF
=  27%
63 SF
211 SF
63 SF
211 SF
=  30%
=  30%
=  30%
EXTERIOR OPENING ANALYSIS 04:
LEVEL 07:
LEVEL 06:
10 SF
98 SF
LEVEL 05:
10 SF
98 SF
=  10%
10 SF
194 SF
=  10%
=  5%
LEVEL 04:
LEVEL 03:
LEVEL 02:
10 SF
98 SF
LEVEL 01:
25 SF
101 SF
=  25%
10 SF
98 SF
10 SF
98 SF
=  10%
=  10%
=  10%
S CLAREMONT ST
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
S RAILROAD AVE
CAL TRAIN TRACKS
01
02
04
26' - 0"
20' - 8"
03
21' - 0"
9' - 0"
05
10' - 10"
06
21' - 0"
KEY:
OPENING AREA
WALL AREA
=  % OF 
OPEN AREA
*ALLOWABLE OPEN AREA PER CBC 705.8
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
EXTERIOR OPENING ANALYSIS 05:
LEVEL 07:
LEVEL 06:
58 SF
168 SF
LEVEL 05:
58 SF
168 SF
=  35%
58 SF
274 SF
=  35%
=  21%
LEVEL 04:
LEVEL 03:
LEVEL 02:
58 SF
168 SF
LEVEL 01:
222 SF
41 SF
=  541%
58 SF
168 SF
58 SF
168 SF
=  35%
=  35%
=  35%
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
EXTERIOR OPENING ANALYSIS 04:
LEVEL 07:
LEVEL 06:
58 SF
168 SF
LEVEL 05:
58 SF
168 SF
=  35%
NA
NA
=  35%
=  NA
LEVEL 04:
LEVEL 03:
LEVEL 02:
NA
NA
LEVEL 01:
NA
NA
=  NA
58 SF
168 SF
58 SF
168 SF
=  NA
=  35%
=  35%
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:39:24 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS
2019
G005
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
G005
1
EXTERIOR OPENING DIAGRAM - 01
1/16" = 1'-0"
G005
4
EXTERIOR OPENING DIAGRAM - 04
1/16" = 1'-0"
G005
3
EXTERIOR OPENING DIAGRAM - 03
1" = 50'-0"
G005
10
FIRE SEPERATION DISTANCE (FSD) DIAGRAM
FIRE RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS (TABLE 601 AND 602)
FIRE RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS (TABLES 601)
BUILDING ELEMENT 
TYPE IA 
TYPE IIIA*
STRUCTURAL FRAME 
3 HR 
1 HR
EXTERIOR BEARING WALL 
3 HR 
2 HR
INTERIOR BEARING WALL
3 HR 
1 HR
EXTERIOR NON-BEARING WALL 
SEE BELOW FOR REQUIREMENTS FOR 
EXTERIOR WALLS BASED ON SEPARATION
INTERIOR NON-BEARING WALL 
0 HR 
0 HR
FLOOR 
2 HR 
1 HR
ROOF 
1.5 HR 
1 HR
*NOTE: ALL EXTERIOR WALLS IN THE TYPE IIIA CONSTRUCTION TO BE 2 HR RATED ALL EXTERIOR WALL 
FRAMING AND PLYWOOD SHEATHING IN THE TYPE IIIA CONSTRUCTION TO BE FIRE RETARDANT TREATED 
(FRT)
FIRE RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTERIOR WALLS BASED ON SEPARATION (TABLE 602)
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE (FT) 
TYPE IA 
TYPE IIIA
X < 5' 
1 HR* 
1 HR*
5' TO 10' 
1 HR* 
1 HR
10' TO 30' 
1 HR 
1 HR
30' < X 
NONE 
NONE
SEE DIAGRMAS ON SHEETG005 FOR FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCES AND FIRE RATING, WHERE APPLICABLE
FIRE RESISTANCE RATING BASED ON WALL TYPES:
WALL TYPE 
TYPE IA 
TYPE IIIA
SHAFT ENCLOSURES 
2 HR 
2 HR
EXIT ENCLOSURES 
2 HR 
2 HR
CORRIDOR WALLS, AND 
1 HR 
1 HR
WALLS SEPARATING DWELLING
UNITS
EXTERIOR WALL OPENING PROTECTION
MAXIMUM AREA OF EXTERIOR WALL OPENING BASED ON FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE PER TABLE 705.8
FIRE SEPARATION DIST. (FT) 
OPENING PROTECTION 
ALLOWABLE AREA OF OPENINGS PER STORY
X < 3' 
UP, S 
NOT PERMITTED
3' TO 5' 
UP, S 
15%
5' TO 10' 
UP, S 
25%
10' TO 15' 
UP, S 
45%
15' TO 20' 
UP, S 
75%
20' TO 25' 
UP, S 
NO LIMIT
1/16" = 1'-0"
G005
2
EXTERIOR OPENING DIAGRAM - 02
1/16" = 1'-0"
G005
5
EXTERIOR OPENING DIAGRAM - 05
1/16" = 1'-0"
G005
6
EXTERIOR OPENING DIAGRAM - 06

--- page 83 ---
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
HORIZONTAL EXIT
LOBBY
R-2
BIKE ROOM
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R2
TRASH
S-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
LEARNING CENTER
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
HORIZONTAL EXIT
MPOE/ELEC/MECH
R-2
MPOE/ELEC/MECH
R-2
MPOE/ELEC/MECH
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
COMMUNITY RM
R-2
OFFICE
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
177'
106'
IMAGINARY LINE
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
HORIZONTAL EXIT
186'
153'
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE, 
UPPER FLOOR TYP
RESIDENTIAL
R2
TRASH
S-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
HORIZONTAL EXIT
LAUNDRY
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
IMAGINARY LINE
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
HORIZONTAL EXIT
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE, 
UPPER FLOOR TYP
186'
153'
RESIDENTIAL
R2
TRASH
S-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
LAUNDRY
R-2
HORIZONTAL EXIT
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
IMAGINARY LINE
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE, 
UPPER FLOOR TYP
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
HORIZONTAL EXIT
186'
153'
HORIZONTAL EXIT
RESIDENTIAL
R2
TRASH
S-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
MAINT OFFICE
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
IMAGINARY LINE
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:39:27 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS - HOUSING EGRESS
2019
G006
04.06.20
1" = 30'-0"
G006
1
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
1" = 30'-0"
G006
2
LEVEL 02
1" = 30'-0"
G006
3
LEVEL 03
1" = 30'-0"
G006
4
LEVEL 04

--- page 84 ---
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
186'
153'
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
HORIZONTAL EXIT
RESIDENTIAL
R2
TRASH
S-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
LAUNDRY
R-2
HORIZONTAL EXIT
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
IMAGINARY LINE
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
186'
153'
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
HORIZONTAL EXIT
RESIDENTIAL
R2
TRASH
S-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
MAINT OFFICE
R-2
HORIZONTAL EXIT
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
IMAGINARY LINE
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
HORIZONTAL EXIT
186'
153'
RESIDENTIAL
R2
TRASH
S-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
UTILITY
R-2
FITNESS
R-2
HORIZONTAL EXIT
ROOF DECK
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
R2
RESIDENTIAL
R-2
IMAGINARY LINE
3HR 
FIREWALL
3HR 
FIREWALL
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:39:29 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS - HOUSING EGRESS
2019
G007
04.06.20
1" = 30'-0"
G007
1
LEVEL 05
1" = 30'-0"
G007
2
LEVEL 06
1" = 30'-0"
G007
3
LEVEL 07

--- page 85 ---
UTILITY
S-2
UTILITY
S-2
GARAGE
S-2
*
PEDESTRIAN 
ENTRY
*
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
PROVIDE BOLLARDS AT PEDESTRIAN ZONES
EXACT QUANTITY AND LOCATION TO BE COORDINATED W/ THE CITY PRIOR TO BUILDING PERMIT
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
GARAGE
S-2
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
GARAGE
S-2
SECURITY FENCE AND GATE
EGRESS STAIRS
EGRESS STAIRS
OPEN TO BELOW
GARAGE
S-2
BRIDGE TO RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:39:31 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
BUILDING CODE DIAGRAMS - GARAGE EGRESS
2019
G008
04.06.20
1" = 30'-0"
LEVEL 01-G
1" = 30'-0"
LEVEL 02-G - 03
1" = 30'-0"
LEVEL 04-G
1" = 30'-0"
LEVEL 05-G

--- page 86 ---
BARarchitects
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
04.06.20
EXISTING CONDITIONS
C1.0

--- page 87 ---
BARarchitects
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
04.06.20
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
C2.0

--- page 88 ---
BARarchitects
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
04.06.20
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
C2.1

--- page 89 ---
BARarchitects
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
04.06.20
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN
C3.0

--- page 90 ---
BARarchitects
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
04.06.20
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
C4.0

--- page 91 ---
BARarchitects
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
04.06.20
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
C5.0

--- page 92 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
4'-6" 5'
(E) OAK TREES
TO BE PROTECTED
WATER METERS,
S.C.D.
FIRE
HYDRANT,
S.C.D.
(N) PLANTING
CONCRETE
DRIVEWAY
CONCRETE
SIDEWALK
MECHANICAL
FILTER FOR STORMWATER
TREATMENT, S.C.D.
(N) PLANTING
8' HIGH WELDED WIRE
SECURITY FENCE
3'-8"
(N) STREET TREE:
Pistacia chinensis
LANDSCAPE SITE PLAN
L100
EAST 5TH AVENUE
EAST 4TH AVENUE
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
COURTYARD
SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
HOUSING BLOCK
480 EAST 4TH AVE.
0
15’
30’
60’
N
SCALE:  1” = 30’-0”
CALTRAIN
PLAZA
PARKING GARAGE
400 EAST 5TH AVE.
LANDCAPE ARCHITECT:
MILLER COMPANY LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTS
PROJECT MANAGER:  MAYA NAGASAKA
ADDRESS:  1585 FOLSOM STREET, SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94131
PHONE:       (415) 252-7299
(OWNED BY PENNINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD)
(S.P.T.C. RAILROAD AND UTILITY EASEMENT)
2021
3/4/20

--- page 93 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
LANDSCAPE PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
L101
1.    PUBLIC PLAZA
2.    PUBLIC SEATING AREA AT PLAZA
3.    CONCRETE PAVING WITH SCORE PATTERN 
4.    NATIVE PLANTING GARDEN W/ FLOWERING TREES 
5.    CONCRETE SIDEWALK PAVING
6.    EXISTING STREET LIGHT POLE
7.	
EXISTING PEDESTRIAN LIGHT POLE
8.    RELOCATED EXISTING STREET LIGHT POLE
9.    RELOCATED EXISTING PEDESTRIAN LIGHT POLE
10.  STREET TREE
11.  FIRE HYDRANT
12.  TRANSFORMER / PG&E VAULT
13.  PATIO
14.  CURB RAMP
15.  GAS METER 
16.  BACKFLOW PREVENTORS
17.  PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE ABOVE
18.  EMERGENCY VEHICLE ACCESS
19.  SIDEWALK BULBOUT
20.	 CLASS II SHORT TERM BIKE PARKING (TOTAL 12 BIKE RACKS)
21.  ENTRY GATE
22.  CONCRETE WALKWAY IN COURTYARD
23.  COURTYARD OUTDOOR SPACE WITH MOVABLE FURNITURE
24.  CHARCOAL BBQ GRILL AND COAL COLLECTOR
25.  TRASH RECEPTACLE
26.  COURTYARD SEATING AREA WITH WOOD BENCH  
27.  LAWN AREA WITH SYNTHETIC GRASS 
28.  NATURE BASED PLAY AREA 
29.	 PLANTING AREA W/ NATIVE AND DROUGHT TOLERANT PLANTS
30.  ACCESS TO FIRE CONTROL ROOM
31.  TRASH STAGING AREA
32.  BIOSWALE
33.  TREES IN COURTYARD AND ONSITE PERIMETER
34.  GLASS WALL
35.  COVERED PLANTING AREA
36.  BIORETENTION PLANTER
37.  10’ x 40’ LOADING ZONE
4
3
2
10
13
13
A
A
1
5
5
B
B
EAST 5TH AVENUE
EAST 4TH AVENUE
SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
C
C
E
E
LEGEND
LOBBY
COMMUNITY 
ROOM
BIKE 
ROOM
LEARNING 
CENTER
TRASH 
ROOM
6
15
8
8
14
16
17
21
19
22
22
23
24
27
28
26
10
14
0
8’
16’
32’
N
SCALE:  1/16” = 1’-0”
D 
D
7
9
7
7
29
6
29
29
34
35
29
8
11
20
20
25
33
12
12
12
12
11
MECH 
ROOM
MAINTENANCE
FIRE 
CONTROL 
ROOM
31
30
G
G
33
12
32
36
36
32
29
10
10
10
18
18
MPOE 
ROOM
32
33
33
10
(OWNED BY PENNINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD)
5
11
36
33
33
37

--- page 94 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
LANDSCAPE PLAN - PARKING GARAGE
L102
1.    CONCRETE SIDEWALK PAVING
2.    PEDESTRIAN GARAGE ENTRY
3.    EXISTING JOINT POLE 
4.    PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE ABOVE
5.    EXISTING STREET LIGHT POLE
6.    FIRE HYDRANT
7.	
DRIVEWAY
8.	
PLANTING AREA
9.    EXISTING OAK TREES W/ GRAVEL MULCH
10.  8’-0” HIGH WELDED WIRE PANEL SECURITY FENCE AND ACCESS GATE
11.  WATER METERS
12.  MECHANICAL FILTER FOR STORMWATER TREATMENT
13.  STREET TREES
LEGEND
1
EAST 5TH AVENUE
CALTRAIN
PARKING GARAGE
4
3
2
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
F
F
8
8
0
8’
16’
32’
N
SCALE:  1/16” = 1’-0”
TRANS-
FORMER 
ROOM
MPOE
2
10
12
11
UTILITY 
ROOM
(S.P.T.C. RAILROAD AND UTILITY EASEMENT)
13

--- page 95 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
LANDSCAPE PLAN - 7TH FLOOR
L103
1.    OUTDOOR BREEZE WAY
2.    42” HIGH PERFORATED METAL FENCE
3.    DOUBLE GATE 
4.    RAISED PLANTERS
5.    LOUNGE SEATING AREA
6.    CAFE TABLES AND CHAIRS
7.	
OVERHEAD TRELLIS AT GATHERING SPACE
LEGEND
1
4
3
5
6
7
2
0
4’
12’
24’
N
SCALE:  3/16” = 1’-0”
FITNESS ROOM
ELEVATOR
2
4
4
5
6
1
2

--- page 96 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
LANDSCAPE STREETSCAPE SECTIONS
L104
SECTION A-A:  EAST 5TH AVENUE AT HOUSING LOT
SECTION B-B:  SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
6’-1”
SIDEWALK
4’-6”
STREET
TREE 
PLANTING
PLANTING
5” 1’-7”
6’-11”
PLANTING
7’-6”
SIDEWALK
7’-0”
SIDEWALK
7’-10”
PUBLIC PLAZA
2’-4”
WOOD 
BENCH
7’-11”
NATIVE PLANTING 
GARDEN WITH 
FLOWERING TREES
E. 5TH AVE
PRIVATE UNIT PATIO
S. CLAREMONT
AVE
SECTION C-C:  EAST 4TH AVENUE AT PLAZA
SECTION D-D:  EAST 4TH AVENUE     
SECTION F-F:  EAST 5TH AVENUE AT PARKING GARAGE 
SECTION G-G:  BIOSWALE AT HOUSING LOT
E. 4TH AVE
E. 4TH AVE
SECTION E-E:  SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
PLANTING
PLANTING
S. RAILROAD
AVE
E. 5TH AVE
PROPERTY
LINE
PROPERTY
LINE
PROPERTY
LINE
5’-0”
PLANTING WITH 
SHADE TREES 
6’-3”
SIDEWALK
5’-0”
SIDEWALK
8’-8”
BIOSWALE WITH 
STORMWATER 
TREATMENT PLANTING
1’-3”
4’-4”
STREET
TREE 
PLANTING
5”
2’-0”
2’-0”
2’-0”
2’-0”
3’-3”
7’-0”
4’-10”
SIDEWALK
4’-6”
PLANTING
PLANTING
PLANTING
PROPERTY
LINE
PROPERTY
LINE
PROPERTY
LINE

--- page 97 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
WM
WM
BFP
BFP
4'-4" 6'-3"
1'-3"
5'
2'
1'-6 1/2"
6'
4'-6"
5'
2'
TYP.
3'
TYP.
2'-6"
TYP.
2'
TYP.
(4) (N) TREES:
Lyonothamnus Floribundus
ssp. Asplenifolius
(N) TREES AND PLANTING,
SEE PLANT PALETTE
(N) PLANTING,
SEE PLANT PALETTE
(N) TREES AND PLANTING,
SEE PLANT PALETTE
BIOSWALE WITH
(N) PLANTING, SEE
PLANT PALETTE
BIOSWALE WITH
(N) PLANTING, SEE
PLANT PALETTE
(N) PLANTING,
SEE PLANT PALETTE
CONCRETE PAVING AT
COMMUNITY COURTYARD
LOG CLIMBER
PLAY STRUCTURE
STAINLESS STEEL
BBQ GRILL
WOOD BENCH
POLE LIGHT
SYNTHETIC GRASS
CONCRETE WALKWAY
ENTRY GATE AND FENCE
RELOCATED
(E) STREET LIGHT
EXISTING PLAQUE
TO REMAIN
PEDESTRIAN
BRIDGE
ABOVE
SIDEWALK PLANTING
BIKE RACK, TYP.
WOOD BENCH
SCORED CONCRETE
PAVING
CONCRETE
SIDEWALK
RELOCATED
(E) STREET
LIGHT
BACKFLOW
PREVENTERS,
S.C.D.
CONCRETE
PAVING AT TRASH
STAGING AREA
CONCRETE SIDEWALK
PATIO, TYP. S.A.D.
40'-0"
LOADING
ZONE
12'-0"
10'-0"
(N) STREET TREE:
Prunus serrulata
'Kwanzan'
UTILITY COVER,
S.C.D.
UTILITY COVER,
S.C.D.
UTILITY COVER,
S.C.D.
4'
TYP.
TRANSFORMERS,
S.C.D.
TRANSFORMERS,
S.C.D.
6'
TRASH RECEPTACLE
BIORETENTION
PLANTER, SEE
PLANT PALETTE
5'-0"
5'-3"
(N) TREE:
Pistacia chinensis
(N) TREE:
Pistacia chinensis
FIRE HYDRANT,
S.C.D.
BIORETENTION
PLANTER, SEE
PLANT PALETTE
1'-9"
4'-4"
(N) STREET TREE:
Quercus shumardii
(Shumard Red Oak)
RELOCATED (E)
PEDESTRIAN
LIGHT POLE
BIKE RACK
JOINT POLE
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS SCHEDULE AND PLAN (HOUSING)
L200
SCHEDULE OF LIGHT FIXTURES
SYMBOL
TYPE
MANUFACTURER MODEL
MATERIAL
COLOR
FINISH
NOTES
EXISTING
PEDESTRIAN
STREETLIGHT
EXISTING
STREETLIGHT
EXISTING STREET LIGHTS ON
EAST 5TH STREET ON HOUSING
LOT SIDE TO BE RELOCATED AS
SHOWN.
POLE LIGHT IN
COURTYARD
LANDSCAPE
FORMS OR
EQUAL
LED PEDESTRIAN
LIGHT: 12' HIGH
FGP AREA LIGHT
POLE
CAST ALUMINUM WITH
LED LIGHT SOURCE
TITANIUM
POWDER COATED
SCHEDULE OF MATERIALS AND FURNISHINGS
SYMBOL
TYPE
MANUFACTURER
MODEL
MATERIAL
COLOR
FINISH
NOTES
SQUARE FOOTAGE
HARDSCAPE AND LANDSCAPE
CONCRETE
SIDEWALK PAVING
PER CITY
STANDARDS
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE
PORTLAND
CEMENT
NATURAL
MEDIUM
BROOM
BROOM STRIKE
PERPENDICULAR
TO DIRECTION
OF TRAVEL
CONCRETE PAVING
AT PLAZA
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE
W/ SCORED PATTERN
PORTLAND
CEMENT
NATURAL
LIGHT
SANDBLAST
1,607 sq.ft.
CONCRETE PAVING
AT COURTYARD
CAST-IN-PLACE CONCRETE
W/ SCORED PATTERN
PORTLAND
CEMENT
NATURAL
LIGHT
SANDBLAST
2,868 sq.ft.
SYNTHETIC TURF
TOT TURF
510.433.0655
PRO PLAY ELITE
NYLON FIBERS
FIELD/FORES
T/
OLIVE
STANDARD
1,841 sq.ft.
PLANTING ON SITE
10,174 sq. ft.
PLANTING AT ROW
1,031 sq. ft.
BIOSWALE ON SITE
1,614 sq. ft.
BIORETENTION
PLANTER AT ROW
343 sq. ft.
SITE FURNISHING
BENCH AT
COURTYARD AND
PLAZA
DM BRAUN OR
APPROVED EQUAL
PREFABRICATED TO FIT AT SITE
WOOD SLATS
BIKE RACK
BIKEPARKING.COM
415.333.6428
WELLE CIRCULAR RACK
WCR02-1G-SS
STAINLESS STEEL
STAINLESS
STEEL #4
FINISH
IN-GROUND
BBQ
T.B.D.
FREE STANDING CHARCOAL
GRILL WITH SIDE TABLE
STAINLESS STEEL
TRASH RECEPTACLE
LANDSCAPE FORMS
800.430.6206
SELECT RECYCLING SYSTEM
POWDER COATED
METAL
GREEN
HOT COAL
RECEPTACLE
OUTDOOR
CREATIONS INC.
300 CR
GATE AND FENCE AT
RESIDENTIAL ENTRY
T.B.D.
8' HIGH POWDER COATED STEEL
FENCE AND GATE
PAINTED OR
POWDER COATED
STEEL
T.B.D.
PLAY STRUCTURE
NORLEG BY MIRACLE
PLAYSYTEM OR
EQUAL
LOG CLIMBER WITH NET
ROBINIA
NATURAL
FENCE ALONG
SOUTH SIDE OF
GARAGE BUILDING
OMEGA II FENCING
SYSTEM
OMEGA ARCHITECTURAL FENCE
WELDED WIRE
MESH PANEL WITH
STEEL POST
STANDARD
BLACK
POWDER
COATED
GENERAL LEGEND
S.A.D.
SEE ARCHITECTURAL
DRAWINGS
S.C.D.
SEE CIVIL
ENGINEER'S
DRAWINGS
COURTYARD
PLAZA
0
8’
16’
32’
N
SCALE:  1/16” = 1’-0”
NOTE: 
1. REFER TO PLANTING SCHEDULE ON SHEET L300 AND PLANTING PALETTE FOR NEW PLANTING ON SHEET L301.
2. REFER TO TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN L400 AND L401, ARBORIST REPORT ON SHEET L402 AND L403, AND TREE EVALUATION ON SHEET L404.  
EAST 5TH AVENUE
EAST 4TH AVENUE
SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
(OWNED BY PENNINSULA CORRIDOR JOINT POWERS BOARD)

--- page 98 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
4'-6" 5'
(E) OAK TREES
TO BE PROTECTED
WATER METERS,
S.C.D.
FIRE
HYDRANT,
S.C.D.
(N) PLANTING
CONCRETE
DRIVEWAY
CONCRETE
SIDEWALK
MECHANICAL
FILTER FOR STORMWATER
TREATMENT, S.C.D.
(N) PLANTING
8' HIGH WELDED WIRE
SECURITY FENCE
3'-8"
(N) STREET TREE:
Pistacia chinensis
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN (PARKING GARAGE)
L201
CALTRAIN
NOTE: 
1.  REFER TO SCHEDULE OF MATERIALS AND FURNISHING ON SHEET L200.
2. REFER TO PLANTING SCHEDULE ON SHEET L300 AND PLANTING PALETTE FOR NEW PLANTING ON SHEET L301.
3. REFER TO TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN L400 AND L401, ARBORIST REPORT ON SHEET L402 AND L403, AND TREE EVALUATION ON SHEET L404.   
0
8’
16’
32’
N
SCALE:  1/16” = 1’-0”
PARKING GARAGE
EAST 5TH AVENUE

--- page 99 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
OUTDOOR BREEZE WAY
DOUBLE GATE
42” HIGH PERFORATED
METAL FENCE
RAISED PLANTERS
LOUNGE SEATING AREA
42” HIGH PERFORATED
METAL FENCE
RAISED PLANTERS
OUTDOOR BREEZE WAY
OVERHEAD TRELLIS AT
GATHERING SPACE
PREFABRICATED WOOD
BENCH AND TABLES
CAFE TABLES AND CHAIRS
LOUNGE SEATING AREA
RAISED PLANTERS
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS PLAN (7TH FLOOR)
L202
NOTE: 
1.  REFER TO SCHEDULE OF MATERIALS AND FURNISHING ON SHEET L200.
2. REFER TO PLANTING SCHEDULE ON SHEET L300 AND PLANTING PALETTE FOR NEW PLANTING ON SHEET L301.
0
4’
8’
16’
N
SCALE:  3/16” = 1’-0”

--- page 100 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
LANDSCAPE MATERIALS AND FURNISHING
L203
LED Pedestrian Light at Courtyard
HARDSCAPE
Concrete Paving with Scored Pattern
Synthetic Turf
FURNISHINGS
Wood Benches
Bike Rack
Free standing Charcoal BBQ Grill 
Natural playground - Log Climber Play Structure
LIGHTING
FENCING
Welded Wire Security Fence, Back of Parking Garage
Trash Receptacle
Hot Coal Receptacle
FRP Planters

--- page 101 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
ONSITE PLANTING
SYMBOL
ABBREV.
SCIENTIFIC NAME
COMMON NAME
SIZE
QTY
WATER
NOTES
TREES
ACE CIR
ACER CIRCINATUM
VINE MAPLE
36"BOX
6
MOD
AFR GRA
AFROCARPUS GRACILIOR
AFRICAN FERN PINE
36" BOX
3
MEDIUM
LYO FLO
LYONOTHAMNUS FLORIBUNDUS SSP.
ASPLENIIFOLIUS
SANTA CRUZ ISLAND
IRONWOOD
36" BOX
4
LOW
ON SITE ALONG SOUTH
RAILROAD AVE.
ARC MAN
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS MANZANITA 'DR.
HURD'
DR. HURD MANZANITA
36" BOX
2
VERY LOW
COR NUT
CORNUS NUTTALLII
PACIFIC DOGWOOD
36" BOX
6
MEDIUM
CYA COO
CYATHEA COOPERI
AUSTRALIAN TREE FERN
36" BOX
4
HIGH
CER OCC
CERCIS OCCIDENTALIS
WESTERN REDBUD
36" BOX
3
VERY LOW
PIS CHI
PISTACIA CHINENSIS
CHINESE PISTACHE
24" BOX
3
LOW
ON SITE ALONG EAST 5TH
AVENUE.
SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, GRASSES  AND VINES
ACA COG
ACACIA COGNATA COUSIN ITT
LITTLE RIVER WATTLE
LOW
ACA MOL
ACANTHUS MOLLIS
BEAR'S BREECHES
MED
AGA ATT
AGAVE ATTENUATA
FOXTAIL AGAVE
LOW
ANE HYB
ANEMONE X HYBRIDA
JAPANESE ANEMONE
MOD
ARC SPP
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS SPP.
MANZANITA
LOW
CAR MOR
CAREX MORROWII 'ICE DANCE'
ICE DANCE SEDGE
MED
CAR TES
CAREX TESTACEA
ORANGE SEDGE
LOW
CEA SPP
CEANOTHUS SPP.
CEANOTHUS
LOW
ERI FAS
ERIOGONUM FASCICULATUM
CALIFORNIA BUCKWHEAT
LOW
FRA RAM
FRANCOA RAMOSA
BRIDAL WREATH
MED
FES CAL
FESTUCA CALIFORNICA
CALIFORNIA FESCUE
LOW
LEP CAL
LEPECHINIA CALYCINA
PITCHER SAGE
LOW
LOR CHI
LOROPETALUM CHINENSE
'EMERALD SNOW'
EMERALD SNOW FRINGE
FLOWER
LOW
PIT TOB
PITTOSPORUM TOBIRA
MOCK ORANGE
LOW
SAR RUS
SARCOCOCCA RUSCIFOLIA
FRAGRANT SWEET BOX
LOW
SAT DOU
SATUREJA DOUGLASII
YERBA BUENA
LOW
WOO FIM
WOODWARDIA FIMBRIATA
GIANT CHAIN FERN
MED
GROUND COVERS
ARM BLO
ARMERIA MARITIMA 'BLOODSTONE'
SEA PINK
MOD
LAM MAC
LAMIUM MACULATUM
SPOTTED DEADNETTLE
LOW
STREET
SYMBOL
ABBREV.
SCIENTIFIC NAME
COMMON NAME
SIZE
QTY
WATER
NOTES
TREES
QUE SHU
QUERCUS SHUMARDII
SHUMARD OAK
24" BOX
4
LOW
STREET TREE ALONG
EAST 4TH AVE.
PIS CHI
PISTACIA CHINENSIS
CHINESE PISTACHE
24" BOX
2
LOW
STREET TREE ALONG EAST
5TH AVE. IN FRONT OF
GARAGE BUILDING.
PRU SER
PRUNUS SERRULATA 'KWANZAN'
KWANZAN CHERRY
24" BOX
7
LOW
STREET TREE ALONG
SOUTH CLAREMONT ST.
SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, GRASSES  AND VINES
DIE BIC
DIETES BICOLOR
FORTNIGHT LILY
5 GAL
LOW
LOM LON
LOMONDRA LONGIFOLIA BREEZE
BASKET GRASS
5 GAL
LOW
WES FRU
WESTRINGIA FRUITICOSA 'GREY
BOX'
COAST ROSEMARY
5 GAL
LOW
BIOSWALE
SYMBOL
ABBREV.
SCIENTIFIC NAME
COMMON NAME
SIZE
QTY
WATER
NOTES
SHRUBS, PERENNIALS, GRASSES  AND VINES
CAR TUM
CAREX TUMULICOLA
BERKELEY SEDGE
LOW
CHO TEC
CHONDROPETALUM TECTORUM
CAPE REED
LOW
EPI CAN
EPILOBIUM CANUM
CALIFORNIA FUCHSIA
LOW
LEY CON
LEYMUS CONDENSATUS
'CANYON PRINCE'
CANYON PRINCE WILD RYE
LOW
MIM AUR
MIMULUS AURANTIACUS
STICKY MONKEYFLOWER
VERY LOW
RHA CAL
RHAMNUS CALIFORNICA
'MOUND SAN BRUNO'
COFFEEBERRY
LOW
RUB PAR
RUBUS PARVIFLORUS
WESTERN THIMBLEBERRY
LOW
SOL SPP
SOLIDAGO SPP.
'CROWN OF RAYS'
CROWN OF RAYS GOLDENROD
MOD
LANDSCAPE PLANTING SCHEDULE
L300

--- page 102 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
LANDSCAPE PLANT PALETTE
L301
ONSITE PLANTING
STREET TREES
Santa Cruz Island Ironwood
Lyonothamnus Floribundus ssp. 
Asplenifolius
Kwanzan Cherry 
Prunus serrulata ‘Kwanzan’
Cousin Itt Acacia
Acacia cognata ‘Cousin Itt’
Sedge
Carex spp.
Sticky Monkeyflower
Mimulus aurantiacus
Western Thimbleberry
Rubus parviflorus
BIOSWALE
Cape Rush
Chondropetalum tectorum
California Fucsia
Epilobium canum
Canyon Prince Wild Rye
Leymus condensatus ‘Canyon Prince’
Mound san Bruno Coffeeberry
Rhamnus californica ‘Mound San Bruno’
Crown of Rays Goldenrod
Solidago Crown of Rays
ONSITE TREES
Vine Maple
Acer circinatum
Dr. Hurd Manzanita
Arctostaphylos ‘Dr. Hurd’
Western Redbud
Cercis occidentalis
Foxtail Agave
Agave attenuata
Island Alum Root
Heuchera maxima
Pitcher Sage
Lepechinia calycina
Flowering Currant
Ribes sanguineum
Giant Chain Fern
Woodwardia Fimbriata
Spotted Deadnettle
Lamium Maculatum
Bridal Wreath
Francoa Ramosa
California buckwheat
Eriogonum spp.
Shumard Oak
Quercus shumardii
Australian Tree Fern
Cyathea Cooperi
Pacific Dogwood
Cornus Nuttallii
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
CA
NATIVE
Chinese Pistache
Pistacia chinensis

--- page 103 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
L400
480 EAST 4TH AVENUE
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
4
X
5
6
7
8
44
9
10
11
12
42
41
43
39
40
38
37
36
35
33
34
X
45
32
31
30
29
27
28
26
25
24
23
22
21
20
19
18
17
16
15
14
13
3
2
1
EAST 4TH AVENUE
SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
EAST 5TH AVENUE
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
REMOVE (E) TREE, GRIND STUMP
24" BELOW GRADE
(E) TREE TO BE PROTECTED.
SEE NOTES FOR TREE PROTECTION ZONE AND TREE
PROTECTION METHOD.
LEGEND
1.  CONTRACTOR SHALL MEET WITH THE CONSULTANT ARBORIST AND LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT PRIOR TO
BEGINNING OF WORK TO REVIEW PROCEDURES, ACCESS ROUTES, STORAGE AREAS AND TREE PROTECTION
MEASURES.
2.  DESIGNATE TREE ROOT PROTECTION ZONE -  THE TREE ROOT PROTECTION ZONE (RPZ) DESIGNATES AN
AREA SURROUNDING A TREE OR GROUPING OF TREES THAT IS TO BE FENCED OFF FROM ALL ACCESS UNTIL
DESIGNATED BY A CERTIFIED ARBORIST. THE RPZ IS COMMONLY DEFINED AS ONE (1) FOOT RADIAL DISTANCE
FOR EVERY ONE (1) INCH IN TREE DIAMETER (DBH). THIS IS ROUGHLY EQUIVALENT TO THE AREA COMMONLY
REFERRED TO AS THE "DRIP ZONE." ARBORIST CAN MODIFY THE RPZ DISTANCE FROM THE BASE OF THE TREE
BASED UPON SITE CONDITIONS AND THE LEVEL OF ROOT PRESENCE. THE LARGER THE PROTECTION ZONE
THAT IS PROVIDED, THE GREATER THE LIKELIHOOD OF LONG-TERM TREE SURVIVAL.
3. ANY GRADING, CONSTRUCTION, DEMOLITION OR OTHER WORK THAT IS WITHIN THE TREE ROOT PROTECTION
ZONE (RPZ) SHALL BE MONITORED BY THE CONSULTING ARBORIST.
4. REQUIRED METHOD OF EXCAVATION WITHIN RPZ - CAREFULLY HAND EXCAVATION WITHIN RPZ - CAREFUL
HAND EXCAVATION SHALL BE THE ACCEPTED METHOD OF EXCAVATION. THE AIR SPADE AND DITCHWITCH ARE
BOTH ALTERNATIVE TOOLS THAT CAN BE USED IN THE EXCAVATION. ARBORIST IS TO SUPERVISE ANY SUCH
ACTIVITY.
5.  IF INJURY SHOULD OCCUR TO ANY TREE DURING CONSTRUCTION, IT SHALL BE EVALUATED AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE BY THE CONSULTING ARBORIST SO THAT APPROPRIATE TREATMENTS CAN BE APPLIED.
6. TREE ROOT PROTECTION ZONE FENCING - FENCING MUST PROTECT ALL AREAS WITHIN THE DESIGNATED
RPZ. FENCING IS TO BE SIX-FEET HIGH CHAIN-LINK TYPE METAL FENCING WITH EIGHT-FEET-LONG METAL
POSTS, 2 INCHES IN DIAMETER, DRIVEN TWO-FEET INTO THE GROUND AND SPACED NOT MORE THAN 10 FEET
APART. WARNING SIGNS SHALL BE ATTACHED TO TREE PROTECTION FENCING EVERY 20' WHICH READ "TREE
PROTECTION ZONE DO NOT ENTER. PROJECT ARBORIST'S CONTACT INFORMATION: SBCA TREE CONSULTING
PH. 510-878-3075". TREE PROTECTION FENCES SHALL BE ERECTED TO PROTECT TREES THAT ARE TO REMAIN /
BE PRESERVED.  FENCES ARE TO REMAIN UNTIL ALL SITE WORK IS COMPLETED.  FENCES MAY NOT BE
RELOCATED OR REMOVED WITHOUT PERMISSION OF ARBORIST.
STREET TREES SHALL BE PROTECTED BY CHAIN LINK FENCING THAT SHALL BE INSTALLED WITHIN THE
PLANTING STRIP FOLLOWING THE EDGE OF SIDEWALK IN THE SAME MANNER DESCRIBED FOR PROTECTED
ON-SITE TREES.
7. ROOT PROTECTION AREAS WHERE ROOTS CANNOT BE FENCED, OR WHEN CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES ARE
CONDUCTED INSIDE THE RPZ, OPEN SOIL AREAS REQUIRE PROTECTION FROM CONTAMINANTS AND
COMPACTION. THE EFFECTS OF FOOT TRAFFIC CAN BE MITIGATED THROUGH THE USE OF SIX (6) INCHES OF
WOOD CHIP MULCH AND 3/4 INCH PLYWOOD PLACED ON TOP.  SOIL PROTECTIONS FOR EQUIPMENT OPERATING
WITHIN THE DESIGNATED RPZ REQUIRES 12 INCHES OF MULCH WITH EITHER METAL TRENCHING PLATES OR
1 1/8 INCH PLYWOOD PLACED ON TOP.
8. TRUNK AND SCAFFOLD PROTECTION - WHENEVER CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY MUST OCCUR INSIDE THE TREE
PROTECTION ZONE, THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR CONTACTING THE PROJECT ARBORIST
IN A TIMELY MANNER TO HAVE THE PROJECT ARBORIST PRESENT FOR ALL WORK PERFORMED WITHIN THE
TREE PROTECTION ZONE OF PROTECTED TREES. TREE TRUNK AND AND SCAFFOLD PROTECTION MUST BE
INSTALLED AS THE FOLLOWING:
·
THE BASE OF THE TREE AND THE FIRST EIGHT-FEET OF THE TRUNK MUST BE PROTECTED. THE TRUNK
WRAP CONSISTS OF STRAW WATTLE COILED AROUND THE TRUNK FROM THE BASE UP TO  MINIMUM
HEIGHT OF EIGHT (8) FEET FROM GRADE.
·
 A DOUBLE LAYER OF ORANGE PLASTIC CONSTRUCTION FENCING SHALL BE WRAPPED AND SECURED
AROUND THE STRAW WATTLES.
·
MAJOR SCAFFOLD LIMBS MAY REQUIRE PROTECTION AS DETERMINED BY THE PROJECT ARBORIST SUCH
AS 2 X 4 BOARDS STRAPPED TO THE BOTTOM SIDE OF THE EXPOSED SCAFFOLD LATERAL BRANCH AND
THEN WRAPPED WITH ORANGE SNOW FENCING.
·
ADDITIONAL PROTECTION CAN BE PROVIDED BY EITHER STRAW BALES OF USE OF VERTICAL 2X4 BOARDS
STRAPPED TO THE TREE. ARBORIST MAY REQUIRE ANY OR  ALL OF THE TRUNK PROTECTION MEASURES
DEPENDING UPON THE SITUATION.
·
DAMAGED STRAW WATTLE SHALL BE IMMEDIATELY REPLACED.
9.  CONSTRUCTION TRAILERS, TRAFFIC ND STORAGE AREAS MUST REMAIN OUTSIDE TREE PROTECTION ZONES
/ AREAS, AS DEFINED BY FENCING AT ALL TIMES.
10.  NO MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT, SPOIL, WASTE OR WASH-OUT WATER MAY BE DEPOSITED, STORED, OR
PARKED WITHIN THE TREE PROTECTION ZONE (FENCED AREA).
11.  ANY ADDITIONAL PRUNING NEEDED FOR CLEARANCE DURING CONSTRUCTION SHALL BE PERFORMED BY A
COMPANY SPECIALIZING IN ARBORICULTURE AND UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF A CERTIFIED ARBORIST. ANY
PRUNING MUST COMPLY WITH ANSI A300 PRUNING STANDARDS. PRUNING MUST BE MINIMIZED, PARTICULARLY
WHEN ROOT LOSS OCCURS. PRUNING PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION SHOULD INCLUDE: NECESSARY CLEARANCE
PRUNING, DEADWOOD REMOVAL AND SAFETY PRUNING.
12.  ALL TREES SHALL BE IRRIGATED ON SCHEDULE DETERMINED BY THE CONSULTING ARBORIST.  EACH
IRRIGATION CYCLE SHALL WET THE SOIL WITHIN THE TREE PROTECTION ZONE TO A DEPTH OF 30".
13. ROOTS ONE INCH OR GREATER IN DIAMETER SHALL BE PRUNED BY PROJECT ARBORIST OR DESIGNEE.
14. TREATMENT OF EXPOSED ROOTS - OPEN TRENCHES WITH EXPOSED ROOTS REQUIRE MINIMUM TWO
LAYERS OF DAMP BURLAP OR OTHER ACCEPTABLE COVERING AT ALL TIMES. AN ARBORIST WILL DETERMINE
THE AMOUNT OF SUPPLEMENTAL WATERING REQUIRED BASED UPON SOIL MOISTURE INVESTIGATION AND
WEATHER CONDITIONS. SEVERED ROOTS ARE TREATED WITH A SUGAR SOLUTION (30 GRAMS OF SUGAR TO 1
LITER OF WATER FOR A 1 SQUARE  METER OF SOIL SURFACE).
15.  TREES TO BE REMOVED SHALL BE FELLED SO AS TO FALL AWAY FROM  ANY TREE PROTECTION ZONE AND
AVOID PULLING AND BREAKING OF ROOTS OF TREE(S) TO REMAIN.  IF ROOTS ARE ENTWINED, IT MAY REQUIRE
SEVERING THE WOODY ROOT MASS BEFORE EXTRACTING TREE, OR GRINDING STUMP BELOW GRADE.
CONTRACTOR TO CONSULT WITH CONSULTING ARBORIST.
TREE PROTECTION AND REMOVAL NOTES
0
8’
16’
32’
N
SCALE:  1/16” = 1’-0”
NOTE: 
1.  REFER TO TREE PROTECTION DETAIL ON SHEET L401.

--- page 104 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
TREE REMOVAL AND PROTECTION PLAN - PARKING GARAGE
L401
400 EAST 5TH AVENUE
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
69
68
46
67
66
65
64
63
62
61
60
59
58
57
56
55
54
53
51
50
49
48
47
52
EAST 5TH AVENUE
0
8’
16’
32’
N
SCALE:  1/16” = 1’-0”
STRAW WATTLE COILED AROUND
TRUNK FROM THE BASE,WRAP WITH
A DOUBLE LAYER OF ORANGE PLASTIC
CONSTRUCTION FENCING AND SECURE
AROUND THE STRAW WATTLE, SEE NOTES
2'-0"
8'-0"
MINIMUM OR TO
FIRST BRANCH
FINISH GRADE
CHAINLINK FENCE WITH 2" POST
ROOT PROTECTION ZONE
1' RADIAL DISTANCE
PER 1" OF TRUNK DIAMETER
SEE NOTES.
TREE PROTECTION
ZONE
DO NOT ENTER
SIGNAGE ATTACHED TO
CHAINLINK FENCE
ELEVATION
CHAINLINK FENCE AT
ROOT PROTECTION ZONE (RPZ),
SEE NOTES,
DOUBLE LAYER OF ORANGE
PLASTIC CONSTRUCTION
FENCING
STRAW WATTLE COILED AROUND TRUNK
TREE TRUNK
PLAN
TREE PROTECTION DETAIL
NOTE: 
1.  REFER TO TREE PROTECTION AND REMOVAL NOTES ON SHEET L400.

--- page 105 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SBCA TREE CONSULTING  
1534 Rose Street, Crockett, CA 94525 
Phone: (510) 787-3075 
Fax: (510) 787-3065 
Website: www.sbcatree.com 
 
Steve Batchelder, Consulting Arborist 
 
        Molly Batchelder, Consulting Arborist 
WC ISA Certified Arborist #228                                                     WC ISA Certified Arborist #9613A 
CUFC Certified Urban Forester #134                                          ISA Tree Risk Assessment Qualified 
CA Contractor License #(C-27) 53367  
 
  
 
  E-mail:  molly@sbcatree.com 
E-mail:  steve@sbcatree.com 
 
 
Date:  
 Amended 4-9-20 
To: 
Maya Nagasaka 
Miller Company Landscape Architects 
1585 Folsom Street 
San Francisco, CA 94103 
 
Project:  
480 E 4th and 400 E 5th, San Mateo 
 
 
 
Subject: 
Tree Survey Summary Report 
 
Assignment: 
SBCA Tree Consulting was requested to survey all protected trees within the designated 
area and to prepare LU Values for all trees.   
 
Appendices: 
1. Tree Survey Data for 69 trees 
2. Tree Location Plan 
3. Table of LU Value 
City of San Mateo Tree Ordinance 
 
 13.52.020 DEFINITION. Terms used in this chapter shall be defined as follows: 
 
(a) Heritage tree is any of the following: 
 
(1) Any bay (Umbellularia californica), buckeye (Aesculus spp.), oak (Quercus spp.), cedar (Cedrus) or 
redwood (Sequoia) tree that has a diameter of ten (10) inches or more measured at forty-eight (48) 
inches above natural grade; 
(2)     Any tree or stand of trees designated by resolution of the City Council to be of special historical 
value or of significant community benefit; 
(3)     A stand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others for survival; 
(4)     Any other tree with a trunk diameter of sixteen (16) inches or more, measured at forty-eight (48) 
inches above natural grade. 
 
27.71.150 PRESERVATION OF EXISTING TREES. 
 
(a)   Evaluation of Existing Trees. Trees over six inches in caliper shall be evaluated on the basis of species, size, 
condition, location and classification as a heritage tree. 
 (b)   Required Submittals. To evaluate the existing trees the landscape plan and a tree evaluation schedule shall be 
submitted with the planning application showing: 
480 E 4th and 400 E 5th, San Mateo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Amended 4-9-20 
Miller Company 
 
2 of 4 
 
SBCA Tree Consulting 
 
Phone (510) 787-3075 
1534 Rose St. Crockett, CA 94525 
 
Fax (510) 787-3065 
steve@sbcatree.com 
 
www.sbcatree.com 
(1)     The location of all existing trees six inches or greater in caliper, noting which are to be removed 
and which are located within the allowable building area; 
(2)     Caliper size in inches measured 48 inches above grade; 
(3)     Species name and species value as determined by utilizing the most recent edition of the Guide 
for Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers; 
(4)     Condition and location value of trees as determined by an arborist or landscape architect; 
(5)     The total LU value of trees to be removed; and 
(6)     The total LU value of replacement trees. 
 
The LU value of the replacement trees is not provided with this report. 
Summary 
The tree survey tagged and collected data on 69 trees located on two parcels.  Two trees designated for 
retention qualify as “heritage trees”.  Sixty-seven of the trees are designated for removal due to project 
design or poor condition.   
LU Values for all surveyed trees:  
67 removed 
LU VALUE IS:  
533.28 
2 preserved 
LU VALUE IS: 
32.14 
69 trees total 
LU VALUE IS: 
565.42 
 
Species representation 
Thirteen species were identified in the survey: 
  
Species 
Common 
Name 
Total 
Amount 
Heritage 
Tree 
Amount  
Overall 
Retention 
Suitability 
Total # to be 
retained 
Comments 
1 
Albizia 
julibrissin 
Silk Tree 
2 
0 
G 
0 
Nice trees, Poor 
pruning 
2 
Celtis 
sinensis 
Chinese 
Hackberry 
6 
0 
F-P 
0 
Conflict with wires, 
Poor pruning, Some 
buttresses in contact 
with tree grate, Some 
buttresses shaved to fit 
in tree grate, Aphids 
3 
Eucalyptus 
nicholii 
Narrow-
Leaved 
Black 
Peppermint 
5 
4 
G 
0 
Nice mature large 
trees, Require pruning 
to mitigate risk of 
branch failure, #5 is 
small and should be 
replaced due to poor 
root system 
480 E 4th and 400 E 5th, San Mateo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Amended 4-9-20 
Miller Company 
 
3 of 4 
 
SBCA Tree Consulting 
 
Phone (510) 787-3075 
1534 Rose St. Crockett, CA 94525 
 
Fax (510) 787-3065 
steve@sbcatree.com 
 
www.sbcatree.com 
  
Species 
Common 
Name 
Total 
Amount 
Heritage 
Tree 
Amount  
Overall 
Retention 
Suitability 
Total # to be 
retained 
Comments 
4 
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood' 
Raywood 
Ash 
5 
0 
P 
0 
Species not suitable for 
retention due to poor 
performance as a 
street tree 
5 
Nerium 
oleander 
Oleander 
2 
0 
P 
0 
Not suitable due to 
species and condition 
6 
Pinus pinea 
Italian 
Stone Pine 
1 
0 
P 
0 
Poor structure, not 
suitable 
7 
Pistacia 
chinensis 
Chinese 
Pistache 
10 
0 
G 
0 
Doing well in area 
8 
Platanus x 
hispanica 
London 
Plane 
12 
0 
G 
0 
Good health and 
structures, 
Recommend 
preservation if 
possible, 3 trees at end 
of row (north) are in 
poor condition due to 
shading of adjacent 
trees- replacement not 
recommended 
9 
Prunus 
caroliniana 
Carolina 
Cherry 
Laurel 
9 
0 
P 
0 
Not suitable due to 
species and condition 
10 
Quercus 
agrifolia 
Coast Live 
Oak 
2 
2 
F  
2 
Growing on fence line, 
Likely volunteers, Not 
ideal structure-
location-form 
11 
Rhus lancea 
African 
Sumac 
13 
0 
G 
0 
Good species choice 
for area 
12 
Tristaniopsis 
laurina 
Water Gum 
1 
0 
P 
0 
Circling root 
13 
Ulmus 
parvifolia 
Chinese 
Elm 
1 
0 
P 
0 
Volunteer?  Growing in 
fence 
  
  
  
69 
6 
 
2 
  
 
Care of Trees Designated for Retention 
 
Quercus agrifolia – The two Coast Live Oak trees are located at the south-west end of 400 E 4th.  The 
trees are located on the property line and belong to both property owners.  The larger oak was given a 
fair-poor structural condition rating due to 3 included bark attachments1.  The smaller oak is growing at 
an angle under the canopy of the larger oak.  Regular pruning will be required over the next 20 years to 
provide both trees with better structures.   
 
1 Included bark is a structural defect where bark is included between the branch attachment so that the wood 
cannot join.  Such defects have a higher propensity for failure. 
480 E 4th and 400 E 5th, San Mateo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Amended 4-9-20 
Miller Company 
 
4 of 4 
 
SBCA Tree Consulting 
 
Phone (510) 787-3075 
1534 Rose St. Crockett, CA 94525 
 
Fax (510) 787-3065 
steve@sbcatree.com 
 
www.sbcatree.com 
End Report 
 
Report submitted by: 
 
 
Steve Batchelder, Consulting Arborist 
ISA Certified Arborist WE 228A 
CaUFC Certified Urban Forester #138 
Calif. Contractor Lic. (C-27) 533675 
 
ARBORIST REPORT BY SBCA TREE CONSULTING 
L402

--- page 106 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
ARBORIST REPORT APPENDIX BY SBCA TREE CONSULTING 
L403
 480 E 4th and 400 E 5th
Miller Company Landscape Architects
Appendix 1
Survey Data
 2-8-19
6 of 6
SBCA Tree Consulting
1534 Rose St. Crockett, Ca 94525
Phone (510) 787-3075
Fax (510) 787-3065
COLUMN HEADING DESCRIPTIONS
Tag# - Indicates the number tag attached to tree  
Species - Scientific name
Common Name - Vernacular name
DBH - Diameter measured in inches at 4.5 feet above soil grade, unless otherwise indicated
Spread - In feet
Health -Tree Health: E is Excellent, G is Good, F is Fair, P is Poor, D is Dead or Dying
Structure- Tree Structural Safety:  E is Excellent, G is Good, F is Fair, P is Poor, H is Hazardous
Heritage Tree- Attaining City of  San Mateo Heritage Tree Status: 1 is Yes
Suitability for Retention - Based on Tree Condition: G is Good, F is Fair, P is Poor
RPZ- Root Protection Zone: The radial distance in feet from base of tree that is to be fenced off from all construction access until designated by a 
certified arborist.  
Notes - See  below
ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
Tag #
Species
Common name
DBH
Spread Health
Structure Heritage 
Tree
Suitability for 
Retention
RPZ
Notes
1
Pistacia chinensis
Chinese Pistache
7
15
G
P
 
P
7
Lean, internal decay, trunk wounds
2
Pistacia chinensis
Chinese Pistache
3
10
G
F-G
 
G
3
Structural Pruning required
3
Pistacia chinensis
Chinese Pistache
8
20
G
F 
 
G
8
Large pruning wounds, Stubs, EB
4
Eucalyptus nicholii
Narrow-Leaved Black 
Peppermint
19.5
25
G
F
1
G
20
EB?, New pavement adjacent indicating 
possible past root damage
Notes
Embedded Bark (EB) - AKA Included Bark, this is a structural defect where bark is included between the branch attachment so that the wood cannot join.  Such defects have a 
higher propensity for failure.
Codominant (CD) - A situation where a tree has two or more stems which are of equal diameter and relative amounts of leaf area.  Trees with codominant primary scaffolding 
stems are inherently weaker than stems, which are of unequal diameter and size.   
Codominant w/ Embedded Bark (CDEB) - When bark is embedded between codominant stems, failure potential is very high and pruning to mitigate the defect is 
recommended.
Dead Wood (DW) - Interior dead branches noted in tree.
End Weight Reduction (EWR) - Reduction of end branch end weight recommended to reduce potential for limb failure.
Internal Decay (ID) - Noted by sounding with a mallet or visible cavities/large pruning wounds.
Multi (Multi) - Multiple trunks/stems emanate from below breast height (4.5' above soil grade).
 480 E 4th and 400 E 5th
Miller Company Landscape Architects
Appendix 1
Survey Data
 2-8-19
6 of 6
SBCA Tree Consulting
1534 Rose St. Crockett, Ca 94525
Phone (510) 787-3075
Fax (510) 787-3065
Tag #
Species
Common name
DBH
Spread Health
Structure Heritage 
Tree
Suitability for 
Retention
RPZ
Notes
5
Eucalyptus nicholii
Narrow-Leaved Black 
Peppermint
4
10
F
P
 
P
4
Dysfuctional root system, Lean
6
Eucalyptus nicholii
Narrow-Leaved Black 
Peppermint
28
45
G
G
1
G
28
EWR on lateral over street, Pavement 
uplift
7
Eucalyptus nicholii
Narrow-Leaved Black 
Peppermint
28
50
G
G
1
G
28
EWR on lateral over street 
8
Eucalyptus nicholii
Narrow-Leaved Black 
Peppermint
32
45
G
F-G
1
G
32
EB in upper canopy, Pavement uplift
9
Celtis sinensis
Chinese Hackberry
9
20
G
F
 
F
9
In wires, EB, Buttress almost touching 
grate, Aphids, Pruning wounds
10
Celtis sinensis
Chinese Hackberry
10.5
20
G
F
 
F 
11
In wires, Poor pruning, Aphids
11
Celtis sinensis
Chinese Hackberry
10
20
G
F-P
 
F-P
10
In wires, Poor pruning, Buttress in contact 
with grate, Aphids
12
Celtis sinensis
Chinese Hackberry
12
20
G
F-P
 
F-P
12
In wires, Poor pruning, Large pruning 
wounds, Buttress roots have been 
damaged,Aphids
13
Celtis sinensis
Chinese Hackberry
10
20
G
F
 
F
10
In wires, Buttress in contact with grate, 
EB
14
Celtis sinensis
Chinese Hackberry
12.5
20
G
F
 
F
12.5
In wires, Poor pruning, Large pruning 
wounds, Buttress roots have been 
damaged, Aphids
15
Prunus caroliniana
Carolina Cherry Laurel 5, 3, 2, 2
10
F
P
 
P
EB x 3
16
Prunus caroliniana
Carolina Cherry Laurel 2, 2, 2.5, 
2
10
F
F-P
 
P
Circling root
17
Prunus caroliniana
Carolina Cherry Laurel
2
5
f
P
 
P
2
Circling root, Large pruning wounds
18
Prunus caroliniana
Carolina Cherry Laurel
4.5
10
P
P
 
P
5
Foliage dieback, Serious decay in trunk
19
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
11
25
G
G
 
G
11
20
Prunus caroliniana
Carolina Cherry Laurel
6
15
G
P
 
P
6
CDEB, Surface roots
480 E 4th and 400 E 5th
Miller Company Landscape Architects
Appendix 1
Survey Data
 2-8-19
6 of 6
SBCA Tree Consulting
1534 Rose St. Crockett, Ca 94525
Phone (510) 787-3075
Fax (510) 787-3065
Tag #
Species
Common name
DBH
Spread Health
Structure Heritage 
Tree
Suitability for 
Retention
RPZ
Notes
21
Prunus caroliniana
Carolina Cherry Laurel
4
10
F
P
 
P
4
Large pruning wounds, Lean, Surface 
roots
22
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
13
30
G
F
 
G
13
Large pruning wound, Crossing branches
23
Prunus caroliniana
Carolina Cherry Laurel
7
10
F
F
 
P
7
Large pruning wounds, Surface roots
24
Prunus caroliniana
Carolina Cherry Laurel
3, 2.5
10
P
P
 
P
Trunk decay
25
Prunus caroliniana
Carolina Cherry Laurel
5.5
15
F
F
 
P
6
Circling roots, Surface roots
26
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
12.5
25
G
F
 
F
13
Lean 
27
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
12
15
G
F
 
F
12
Surface roots, Dead wood, Suckers
28
Pistacia chinensis
Chinese Pistache
8
15
G
G
 
N
8
29
Pistacia chinensis
Chinese Pistache
8
20
G
F
 
G
8
Headed for clearance
30
Pistacia chinensis
Chinese Pistache
8.5
25
G
G
 
G
9
Headed for clearance
31
Pistacia chinensis
Chinese Pistache
8
25
G
G
 
G
8
32
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
13
25
G
F-G
 
G
13
Suckers
33
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
8
20
P
P
 
P
8
Sparse, Large EB breakout
34
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
12
25
G
F-G
 
G
12
Suckers
35
Albizia julibrissin
Silk Tree
10.5
35
G
G
 
G
11
Large pruning wound, Lean
36
Albizia julibrissin
Silk Tree
10
20
G
F-G
 
G
10
Large pruning wound, Lean
480 E 4th and 400 E 5th
Miller Company Landscape Architects
Appendix 1
Survey Data
 2-8-19
6 of 6
SBCA Tree Consulting
1534 Rose St. Crockett, Ca 94525
Phone (510) 787-3075
Fax (510) 787-3065
Tag #
Species
Common name
DBH
Spread Health
Structure Heritage 
Tree
Suitability for 
Retention
RPZ
Notes
37
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
10.5
25
G
G
 
G
11
38
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
11.5
25
G
G
 
G
12
39
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
10
25
G
F
 
G
10
EB, Pavement uplift
40
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
9
20
G
G
 
G
9
41
Nerium oleander
Oleander
5.5
10
G
P
 
P
6
Lean, suckers
42
Nerium oleander
Oleander
5
10
G
P
 
P
5
Lean, suckers
43
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
9
20
G
F
 
F
9
Pavement uplift, Lean, Large pruning 
wound
44
Tristaniopsis laurina
Water Gum
4
10
G
P
 
P
4
Circling root
45
Rhus lancea
African Sumac
13
30
G
F
 
F
13
Lean
46
Pistacia chinensis
Chinese Pistache
5.5
15
G
G
 
G
6
47
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
10.5
20
G
G
 
G
11
Surface roots 
48
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
9.5
25
G
G
 
G
10
Surface roots
49
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
9.5
25
G
G
 
G
10
Surface roots 
50
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
9
25
G
G
 
G
9
Surface roots
51
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
9
25
G
G
 
G
9
Surface roots
52
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
9
25
G
G
 
G
9
Surface roots
480 E 4th and 400 E 5th
Miller Company Landscape Architects
Appendix 1
Survey Data
 2-8-19
6 of 6
SBCA Tree Consulting
1534 Rose St. Crockett, Ca 94525
Phone (510) 787-3075
Fax (510) 787-3065
Tag #
Species
Common name
DBH
Spread Health
Structure Heritage 
Tree
Suitability for 
Retention
RPZ
Notes
53
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
11
25
G
G
 
G
11
Large pruning wound, Surface roots
54
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
10
25
G
G
 
G
10
Surface roots
55
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
8
25
G
G
 
G
8
Large pruning wound, Surface roots
56
Pinus pinea
Italian Stone Pine
5, 6
15
G
P
 
P
CDEB, Likely someone planted their xmas 
tree
57
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
6
20
F-P
G
 
F-P
6
Basal wound, Not enough sunlight
58
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
4.5
20
F-P
F-P
 
F-P
5
Circling root, Not enough sunlight
59
Platanus x hispanica
London Plane
4
15
P
F
 
P
4
Not enough sunlight
60
Quercus agrifolia
Coast Live Oak
17.5
30
G
F-P
1
F
18
ID, EB x 3, Growing on fence line
61
Quercus agrifolia
Coast Live Oak
11
15
G
G
1
F
11
In canopy of #61, Growing on fence line
62
Ulmus parvifolia
Chinese Elm
5, 3, 3
30
G
F
 
P
Growing in fence
63
Fraxinus oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Raywood Ash
7.5
15
G
F
 
P
8
EB
64
Fraxinus oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Raywood Ash
11
25
G
F
 
P
11
Surface roots
65
Fraxinus oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Raywood Ash
10
30
G
F
 
P
10
Surface roots
66
Fraxinus oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Raywood Ash
10.5
30
G
F
 
P
11
Surface roots, EB
67
Fraxinus oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Raywood Ash
10
25
G
F
 
P
10
Surface roots
68
Pistacia chinensis
Chinese Pistache
7.5
20
G
G
 
G
8
480 E 4th and 400 E 5th
Miller Company Landscape Architects
Appendix 1
Survey Data
 2-8-19
6 of 6
SBCA Tree Consulting
1534 Rose St. Crockett, Ca 94525
Phone (510) 787-3075
Fax (510) 787-3065
Tag #
Species
Common name
DBH
Spread Health
Structure Heritage 
Tree
Suitability for 
Retention
RPZ
Notes
69
Pistacia chinensis
Chinese Pistache
9.5
20
G
G
 
G
10
6

--- page 107 ---
04.06.20
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
TREE EVALUATION SCHEDULE & REQUIRED TREE PLANTING FORM 
L404
Tag #
Species 
Fate: 
Preserved/ 
Removed
Species 
Value %
Condition 
Value %
Location 
Value %
Plus      
0.35
DBH's
Caliper@ 
48"
Bldg./ 
Setback
Heritgage 
1.25
LU       
Value
60
Quercus 
agrifolia
Save
0.9
0.6
0.5
0.35
17.5
18
1
1.25
17.36
61
Quercus 
agrifolia
Save
0.9
0.8
0.5
0.35
11
11.5
1
1.25
14.79
32.14
Tag #
Species 
Fate: 
Preserved/ 
Removed
Species 
Value %
Condition 
Value %
Location 
Value %
Plus      
0.35
DBH's
Caliper@ 
48"
Bldg./ 
Setback
Heritgage 
1.25
LU       
Value
1
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
7
7.5
0.7
1
6.72
2
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
3
3
0.7
1
2.69
3
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
8
8.5
0.7
1
7.62
4
Eucalyptus 
nicholii
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.8
0.35
19.5
20
1
1.25
28.00
5
Eucalyptus 
nicholii
Remove
0.7
0.4
0.8
0.35
4
4
1
1
2.56
6
Eucalyptus 
nicholii
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
28
28.5
1
1.25
45.60
7
Eucalyptus 
nicholii
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
28
28.5
1
1.25
45.60
8
Eucalyptus 
nicholii
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.8
0.35
32
32.5
1
1.25
52.00
9
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.7
0.8
0.35
9
9.5
1
1
7.60
10
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.7
0.8
0.35
10.5
11
1
1
8.80
11
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.6
0.8
0.35
10
10.5
1
1
7.20
12
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.6
0.8
0.35
12
12.5
1
1
8.57
13
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.7
0.8
0.35
10
10.5
1
1
8.40
14
Celtis 
sinensis
Remove
0.5
0.7
0.8
0.35
12.5
13
1
1
10.40
15
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.4
0.6
0.35
5, 3, 2, 2
6.5
0.7
1
2.18
16
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.5
0.6
0.35
2, 2, 2.5, 2
3.5
0.7
1
1.47
17
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.4
0.6
0.35
2
2
0.7
1
0.67
18
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.2
0.6
0.35
4.5
4.5
0.7
1
0.76
19
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
11
11.5
0.7
1
7.73
20
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.5
0.6
0.35
6
6
0.7
1
2.52
21
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.4
0.6
0.35
4
4
0.7
1
1.34
22
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
13
13.5
0.7
1
7.94
23
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.5
0.6
0.35
7
7.5
0.7
1
3.15
24
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.2
0.6
0.35
3, 2.5
4
0.7
1
0.67
25
Prunus 
caroliniana
Remove
0.7
0.6
0.6
0.35
5.5
5.5
0.7
1
2.77
26
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
12.5
13
0.7
1
7.64
27
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
12
12.5
0.7
1
7.35
28
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
8
8.5
0.7
1
5.71
63  removed
LU VALUE IS: 
362.08
6 preserved
LU VALUE IS:
203.34
69 trees total
LU VALUE IS:
565.42
FORMULA FOR LU VALUE:
Spec.
X Cond.
X Loc.
plus .35  
x Cal.
1
X   1.0
= LU  VALUE
 LU  Values
Total Trees:  69
44
Tristaniopsi
s laurina
Remove
0.9
0.5
0.6
0.35
4
4
0.7
1
2.16
45
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
13
13.5
0.7
1
7.94
46
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.35
5.5
6
1
1
6.72
47
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.35
10.5
11
1
1
12.32
48
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9.5
10
1
1
9.60
49
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9.5
10
1
1
9.60
50
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9
9.5
1
1
9.12
51
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9
9.5
1
1
9.12
52
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9
9.5
1
1
9.12
53
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
11
11.5
1
1
11.04
54
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
10
10.5
1
1
10.08
55
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
8
8.5
1
1
8.16
56
Pinus pinea
Remove
0.7
0.5
0.5
0.35
5, 6
8
1
1
4.00
57
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.35
6
6.5
1
1
3.90
58
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.3
0.5
0.35
4.5
4.5
1
1
1.35
59
Platanus x 
hispanica
Remove
0.7
0.4
0.5
0.35
4
4
1
1
1.60
62
Ulmus 
parvifolia
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
5, 3, 3
6.5
1
1
5.46
63
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Remove
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.35
7.5
8
1
1
2.88
64
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Remove
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.35
11
11.5
1
1
4.14
65
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Remove
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.35
10
10.5
1
1
3.78
66
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Remove
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.35
10.5
11
1
1
3.96
67
Fraxinus 
oxycarpa 
'Raywood'
Remove
0.3
0.7
0.6
0.35
10
10.5
1
1
3.78
68
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.35
7.5
8
1
1
8.96
69
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.7
0.35
9.5
10
1
1
11.20
533.28
29
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
8
8
0.7
1
4.70
30
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
8.5
9
0.7
1
6.05
31
Pistacia 
chinensis
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
8
8.5
0.7
1
5.71
32
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
13
13.5
0.7
1
7.94
33
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.2
0.6
0.35
8
8.5
0.7
1
1.43
34
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
12
12.5
0.7
1
7.35
35
Albizia 
julibrissin
Remove
0.5
0.8
0.6
0.35
10.5
11
0.7
1
5.28
36
Albizia 
julibrissin
Remove
0.5
0.7
0.6
0.35
10
10.5
0.7
1
4.41
37
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
10.5
11
0.7
1
7.39
38
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
11.5
12
0.7
1
8.06
39
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
10
10.5
0.7
1
6.17
40
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.8
0.6
0.35
9
9.5
0.7
1
6.38
41
Nerium 
oleander
Remove
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.35
5.5
5.5
0.7
1
1.65
42
Nerium 
oleander
Remove
0.5
0.5
0.6
0.35
5
5
0.7
1
1.50
43
Rhus 
lancea
Remove
0.7
0.7
0.6
0.35
9
9.5
0.7
1
5.59
Tag #
Species 
Fate: 
Preserved/ 
Removed
Species 
Value %
Condition 
Value %
Location 
Value %
Plus      
0.35
DBH's
Caliper@ 
48"
Bldg./ 
Setback
Heritgage 
1.25
LU       
Value
LU Values for Trees Removed (onsite and offsite)
LU Values for Trees Preserved (onsite)
Required Tree Planting Form (onsite only)
LU Values for Trees Removed (onsite and offsite)
 
31 
The Planning Application Guide 
 
Required Tree Planting  
Zoning Code, Section 27.71 – Landscape, requires all projects to have a minimum ratio of 1 tree per 400 square feet of landscaped area.  Existing 
trees that are a minimum of 6-inch diameter may count toward this total.   
 
Landscape Area:                         sq. ft.  ÷ 400 =  
          
 
                               (a) 
 
Number of existing trees from Tree Evaluation Schedule 
with a 6 inch or greater diameter to be preserved: 
 
______________(b) 
                                 
 
Landscape Unit (LU) value of trees to be removed  
from the Tree Evaluation Schedule: 
 
 
 
                                (c) 
 
Minimum LU value to be replaced and/or met 
through payment of in-lieu fees:  [a – b + c =  d]  
 
                                (d) 
 
New Trees: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A “landscape unit” (LU) value equivalent to (d) above, must either be planted on site, or an “in-lieu” fee paid to the city’s street tree planting 
fund.  If the LU value shown at (e) is not equal or greater than (d), then an in-lieu fee must be paid to the City’s street tree planting fund at the 
rate defined annually in the City’s Comprehensive Fee Schedule for each deficient LU. 
 
New Trees Being Planted* 
Quantity 
Size 
LU Value 
Total LU Value 
 
15 gallon 
1 
 
 
24 inch box 
2 
 
 
36 inch box 
3 
 
 
48 inch box 
4 
 
Total LU Value of new trees being proposed: 
 (e) 
*New replacement trees shall be in addition to and not substitute requirements for new street 
trees, parking lot trees or other required trees. 
 
Fees Owed to the City Street Tree Planting Fund: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If (d) is greater than (e), there will be an LU value deficit calculated as follows: 
 
[d – e  =   ____  x  (the annually defined $ per LU value as per 
                                    Current Comprehensive Fee Schedule)  
 
 
            =  $______________ 
11,788
29.47
2
308.54
336.01
93
31
78,006.21
243.01
93
$321.00
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
City Street trees
Tag #
Species 
Fate: 
Preserved/ 
Removed
Species 
Value %
Condition 
Value %
Location 
Value %
Plus      
0.35
DBH's
Caliper@ 
48"
Bldg./ 
Setback
Heritgage 
1.25
LU       
Value
LU Values for Trees Removed (onsite and offsite)

--- page 108 ---
Box
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
1
A103
________________________
1
A103
________________________
78' - 7"
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
PROPERTY LINE
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
PRIVATE PORCH
UTILITY POLE
STAIR PENTHOUSE
ELEVATOR 
OVERRUN
S CLAREMONT ST
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
S RAILROAD AVE
S B ST
CAL TRAIN TRACKS
PG&E SUBSTATION
PV PANEL @ ROOF
STAIR PENTHOUSE
ELEVATOR OVERRUN
EXTERIOR STAIR
229.95
219.84
229.98
220.11
403.50
135.00
BETWEEN STRUCTURES
+/-  32'
3' - 0"
21' - 0"
6' - 9"
2' - 9"
4' - 0"
7' - 0"
1' - 8"
6' - 3"
1' - 6"
10' - 6"
12' - 6"
0' - 9"
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 9:06:21 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SITE PLAN - OVERALL
2019
A102
04.06.20
1" = 30'-0"
A102
1
SITE PLAN
15
30
60
90
0
SCALE: 1" = 30'-0"

--- page 109 ---
PL
PL
PL
PL
ADJACENT PROJECT
PARKING GARAGE
E 5TH AVE
RESIDENTIAL
E 4TH AVE
ADJACENT PROJECT
HT TO BRIDGE
43' - 0"
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:41:35 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SITE SECTION
2019
A103
04.06.20
1" = 30'-0"
A103
1
SITE SECTION

--- page 110 ---
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:41:58 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SHADOW STUDY
2019
A104
04.06.20
15
30
60
90
0
SCALE: 1" = 30'-0"
1" = 100'-0"
WINTER SOLSTICE @ 3PM
1" = 100'-0"
WINTER SOLSTICE @ NOON
1" = 100'-0"
WINTER SOLSTICE @ 9AM
1" = 100'-0"
EQUINOX @ 3PM
1" = 100'-0"
EQUINOX @ NOON
1" = 100'-0"
EQUINOX @ 9AM
1" = 100'-0"
SUMMER SOLSTICE @ 3PM
1" = 100'-0"
SUMMER SOLSTICE @ NOON
1" = 100'-0"
SUMMER SOLSTICE @ 9AM

--- page 111 ---
Gate
S CLAREMONT ST
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
S RAILROAD AVE
CAL TRAIN TRACKS
PG&E SUBSTATION
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:00 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SITE PHOTOS
2019
A110
04.06.20
1
2
4
3
5
6
7
4 - E 5th AVE + CLAREMONT ST LOOKING WEST
1 - S RAILROAD AVE + E 5TH AVE - LOOKING NORTH
7 - S CLAREMONT ST - LOOKING WEST
3 - E 4TH AVE + S CLAREMONT ST - LOOKING SOUTH
6 - E 5th AVE + S CLAREMONT ST LOOKING SOUTH
5 - S CLAREMONT ST + E 5TH AVE - LOOKING EAST
2 - E 4TH AVE + S RAILROAD - LOOKING EAST

--- page 112 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
1,734 SF
COMMUNITY
ROOM
UTILITY
STORAGE
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
S CLAREMONT ST
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
S RAILROAD AVE
BUILDING 
PROJECTION ABOVE
BUILDING 
PROJECTION
ABOVE
OUTLINE OF BLDG ABOVE
BACKFLOW PREVENTERS, 
SCD
PG&E UCD
TRANSFORMER, SCD
GAS
METER, SCD
TRASH CHUTES ABOVE
JAN
OUTLINE OF 
STRUCTURE ON 
ADJACENT PROPERTY
BIKE RACK
BIKE RACK
LOADING ZONE, SCD
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) LIGHTPOLE
NEW CURB RAMP
NEW CURB
RAMP, SCD
BIKE RACK
FIRE HYDRANT
(E) LIGHTPOLE
BIKE RACK
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) UTILITY POLE
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) UTILITY POLE
FIRE HYDRANT
(E) LIGHTPOLE
(E) UTILITY POLE
FDC, SCD
(E) LIGHTPOLE
FIRE HYDRANT
(E) LIGHTPOLE
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
BUILDING 
PROJECTION
(ABOVE)
BUILDING PROJECTION 
(ABOVE)
BUILDING PROJECTION 
(ABOVE)
4 YD
4 YD
4 YD
CONFERENCE
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
1,058 SF
LEARNING
CENTER
UTILITY
STAIR
STO
OFFICE
SERVICES
WC
SERVICES
OFFICE
LOBBY
UTILITY
4 YD
4 YD
FG 121' - 0"
FG 121' - 0"
FG 121' - 6"
TRASH
MPOE
MECH/MAINT
FIRE
CONTROL
ROOM
MAINT
2,553 SF
BIKE RM
CIRC
STAIR
TRASH STAGING AREA
CURB CUT AT TRASH
JAN
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
FG 121' - 0"
229' - 11 1/2"
220' - 1 1/2"
(E) LIGHTPOLE
BIKE MAINTENANCE 
& STORAGE
121' - 6"
121' - 6"
121' - 6"
3' - 0"
221' - 6"
5' - 5 1/2"
4' - 0"
25' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 8"
58' - 4"
1' - 8"
3' - 8"
49' - 4"
92' - 0"
63' - 0"
3' - 11"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
18' - 0"
24' - 0"
54' - 0"
46' - 0"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
2' - 4"
213' - 11"
3' - 7"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
69' - 0"
17' - 0"
65' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 5"
2' - 11"
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:02 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SITE & FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A201
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A201
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
8,046.64 SF
2,447.80 SF
3,214.05 SF
16,340.66 SF
3,473.33 SF
33,522.48 SF

--- page 113 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
STAIR
UTILITY
LAUNDRY
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRCULATION
UNIT
UTILITY
TRASH
BUILDING 
PROJECTION ABOVE
BUILDING PROJECTION 
ABOVE
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STUDIO
2BD
JAN
STAIR
CIRC
CIRC
UTILITY
JAN
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
3' - 0"
221' - 6"
5' - 5 1/2"
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 8"
58' - 4"
1' - 6"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
63' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
45' - 10"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 5"
3' - 9"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
69' - 0"
17' - 0"
65' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:04 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A202
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A202
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
4,652.81 SF
446.50 SF
26,760.17 SF
492.08 SF
32,351.55 SF

--- page 114 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
CIRC
MAINT OFFICE
UNIT
UTILITY
LAUNDRY
TRASH
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
JAN
UTILITY
UTILITY
JAN
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
63' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
46' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
CIRC
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
69' - 0"
17' - 0"
65' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
CIRC
CIRC
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:05 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A203
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A203
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
4,652.81 SF
446.50 SF
26,760.17 SF
492.08 SF
32,351.55 SF

--- page 115 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
JAN
UTILITY
UTILITY
MAINT
OFFICE
JAN
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
63' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
46' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
TRASH
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
69' - 0"
17' - 0"
65' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
CIRC
CIRC
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:07 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A204
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A204
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
446.50 SF
4,652.81 SF
26,757.59 SF
492.08 SF
32,348.98 SF

--- page 116 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
WALKWAY ABOVE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
JAN
LAUNDRY
STAIR
STAIR
UTILITY
UTILITY
JAN
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
BRIDGE TO GARAGE
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
63' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
46' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
TRASH
CL
4' - 3"
31' - 0"
69' - 0"
17' - 0"
65' - 0"
25' - 0"
3' - 10"
CIRC
CIRC
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:09 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A205
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A205
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
446.50 SF
5,426.14 SF
25,826.72 SF
591.08 SF
32,290.44 SF

--- page 117 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
STAIR
STAIR
JAN
TRASH
MAINT
OFFICE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
UTILITY
UTILITY
JAN
UTILITY
ELEV
ELEV
ROOF ABOVE BRIDGE
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
63' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
46' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
69' - 0"
17' - 0"
65' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
CIRC
CIRC
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:11 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 06 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A206
04.06.20
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
1/16" = 1'-0"
A206
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 06 - HOUSING BLOCK
446.50 SF
5,426.14 SF
25,826.72 SF
591.08 SF
32,290.44 SF

--- page 118 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
3BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
3BD
3BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
2BD
2BD
3BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
3BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
3BD
1BD
3BD
1BD
1,412 SF
FITNESS
STAIR
STAIR
TRASH
UTILITY
FLOOR AREA LEGEND
AMENITY
CIRC
UNIT
UTILITY
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
OPEN TO 
BELOW
UTILITY
JAN
ROOF 
BELOW
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
JAN
UTILITY
WC
WC
ELEV
ELEV
OCCUPIED 
ROOF DECK
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
63' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
46' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3 1/2"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
CIRC
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
69' - 0"
17' - 0"
65' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
CIRC
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:12 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 07 - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A207
04.06.20
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
1/16" = 1'-0"
A207
1
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 07 - HOUSING BLOCK
1,546.60 SF
3,669.61 SF
22,489.80 SF
543.05 SF
28,249.07 SF

--- page 119 ---
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
A302
1
A301
1
A301
2
A302
2
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
STAIR PENTHOUSE
ELEVATOR OVERRUN
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
SOLAR READY AREA
SOLAR READY AREA
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE ROOF
ELEVATOR OVERRUN
AREA = 3,770 SF 
AREA =2,548 SF 
TOTAL SOLAR READY AREA =  
29,795 SF OF ROOF X 15% 
= 4,470 SF  MIN
PROVIDED
= 12,502 SF
OPEN TO 
BELOW
SOLAR READY AREA
AREA =3,358 SF 
SOLAR READY AREA
AREA =2,826 SF 
ROOF DECK BELOW
TRELLIS
3' - 0"
26' - 0"
109' - 0"
23' - 0"
59' - 0"
1' - 8"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
69' - 0"
17' - 0"
65' - 0"
25' - 0"
4' - 0"
3' - 0"
50' - 0"
92' - 0"
63' - 0"
4' - 7"
31' - 0"
37' - 0"
15' - 0"
29' - 6"
51' - 6"
46' - 0"
3' - 0"
221' - 8"
5' - 3"
1' - 9 1/2"
215' - 7"
2' - 9"
18' - 0"
208' - 0"
4' - 0"
1' - 8"
214' - 7"
3' - 7"
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:14 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
ROOF PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A208
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A208
1
ROOF PLAN - HOUSING BLOCK
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 120 ---
B44
1
1
3
4
7
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
1
A323
________________________
1
A323
________________________
A312
2
A311
2
A311
1
A312
1
2
A323
________________________
2
A323
________________________
MECH
MPOE
ELEC
E 5TH AVE
PG&E SUBSTATION
CAL TRAIN TRACKS
TRANSFORMER
RM
RATED EXIT CORRIDOR
UP
UP
RAMP UP
LIGHTPOLE
FIRE HYDRANT
PG&E TRANSFORMER
BACKFLOW 
PREVENTERS, SCD
FDC
NEW CURB CUT 
& DRIVEWAY
4.50%
121' - 0"
BFP
PUBLIC PARKING STALLS
                          
ELEV
CONTROL
RM
PLEASE NOTE AREA BETWEEN EDGE OF GARAGE STRUCTURE AND PROPERTY LINE IS A SOUTHERN PACIFIC 
RAILROAD EASAMENT: UNDER THE TERMS OF THE EASEMENT, UNION PACIFIC '[HAS] THE RIGHT TO OWN, 
CONSTRUCT, RECONSTRUCT, MAINTAIN, OPERATE USE AND/OR REMOVE EXISTING AND/OR FUTURE RAILROAD, 
RAIL AND RAILROAD-RELATED EQUIPMENT, FACILITIES, TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS, PIPELINES, COMMUNICATION 
SYSTEMS, LINES AND FACILITES OF EVERY KIND AND NATURE' OVER AND THROUGH THE EASEMENT AREA. 
12' - 5 1/2"
PLEASE NOTE: RATED INTERIOR EXIT CORRIODR IS REQUIRED GIVEN SITE 
CONSTRAINTS DETAILED IN EASEMENT. INTERIOR EXIT CORRIDOR IS TO BE WELL LIT 
WITH ARTIFICIAL LIGHTS, SECURED FROM THE EXTERIOR AND MONITORED VIA 
SECURITY CAMERAS
GUY WIRE POLE
UTILITY POLE
BOLLARDS AT PEDESTRIAN ZONES, EXACT 
QUANTITIES AND LOCATIONS TO BE COORDINATED 
W/ THE CITY PRIOR TO BLDG PERMIT
1' - 6"
391' - 6"
10' - 6"
0' - 9"
121' - 9"
12' - 6"
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 0"
8' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
26' - 7"
36' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
22' - 9"
17' - 0"
TYP ACCESSIBLE
9' - 0"
18' - 0"
8' - 6" TYP COMPACT
2' - 6"
2' - 9"
17' - 0"
8' - 0"
22' - 0" TYP PARALLEL
2' - 9"
1' - 6"
TYP STANDARD
18' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
26' - 6"
TYP EV
18' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
1' - 6"
0' - 6"
11 3/8"
LEGEND
8'-2" MIN VERTICAL CLEARANCE
C
COMPACT SPACE
EV1
EV READY SPACE
EV2
EV VAN READY SPACE 
EV3
EV ACCESSIBLE SPACE
EV
EV AMBULATORY READY SPACE
CLEAR STRIPING - NO PARKING
P
PARALLEL SPACE
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:16 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SITE & FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - PARKING LOT
2019
A211
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A211
2
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 01 - PARKING LOT
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
PARKING TABULATION - L1 PUBLIC
TYPE
COUNT
ACCESSIBLE 9' x 18'
6
COMPACT  8'-6" x 17'
156
EV 9 'x 8'
13
EV AMBULATORY  10 'x 18'
1
EV VAN 12'  x 18'
1
PARALLEL 8'-0" x 22'
12
STANDARD 8'-6"'x18'
7
VAN ACCESSIBLE 12' x 18'
1
Grand total: 197

--- page 121 ---
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
CLCL
1
A323
________________________
1
A323
________________________
A312
2
A311
2
A311
1
A312
1
2
A323
________________________
2
A323
________________________
RAMP UP
RAMP DN
4.50%
PUBLIC PARKING STALLS
                          
24'-0" MIN AISLE WIDTH FOR 
STANDARD SPACES PER SAN MATEO 
PARKING STANDARDS 
22'-0" MIN AISLE WIDTH FOR COMPACT 
SPACES PER SAN MATEO PARKING 
STANDARDS 
BOLLARDS AT PEDESTRIAN ZONES, EXACT 
QUANTITIES AND LOCATIONS TO BE COORDINATED 
W/ THE CITY PRIOR TO BLDG PERMIT
ENCLOSED EGRESS CORRIDOR BELOW
18' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 0"
36' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
22' - 9"
17' - 0"
8' - 6" TYP COMPACT
2' - 6"
2' - 9"
17' - 0"
2' - 9"
1' - 6"
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 0"
TYP EV
18' - 0"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
9' - 0"
TYP STANDARD
8' - 6"
18' - 0"
9' - 0" TYP ACCESSIBLE
18' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 3"
LEGEND
8'-2" MIN VERTICAL CLEARANCE
C
COMPACT SPACE
EV1
EV READY SPACE
EV2
EV VAN READY SPACE 
EV3
EV ACCESSIBLE SPACE
EV
EV AMBULATORY READY SPACE
CLEAR STRIPING - NO PARKING
P
PARALLEL SPACE
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:17 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - PARKING LOT
2019
A212
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A212
2
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 02 - PARKING LOT
PARKING TABULATION - L2 PUBLIC
TYPE
COUNT
ACCESSIBLE 9' x 18'
3
COMPACT  8'-6" x 17'
98
EV 9 'x 8'
20
EV ADA 9 'x 8'
1
EV AMBULATORY  10 'x 18'
1
EV VAN 12'  x 18'
1
STANDARD 8'-6"'x18'
31
Grand total: 155
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 122 ---
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
1
A323
________________________
1
A323
________________________
A312
2
A311
2
A311
1
A312
1
2
A323
________________________
2
A323
________________________
RAMP UP
RAMP DN
PUBLIC PARKING STALLS
                          
BOLLARDS AT PEDESTRIAN ZONES, EXACT 
QUANTITIES AND LOCATIONS TO BE COORDINATED 
W/ THE CITY PRIOR TO BLDG PERMIT
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 0"
TYP EV
18' - 0"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
9' - 0"
18' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 0"
36' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
22' - 9"
17' - 0"
2' - 6"
2' - 9"
17' - 0"
2' - 9"
1' - 6"
18' - 0"
18' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 3"
TYP STANDARD
8' - 6"
8' - 6" TYP COMPACT
9' - 0" TYP ACCESSIBLE
LEGEND
8'-2" MIN VERTICAL CLEARANCE
C
COMPACT SPACE
EV1
EV READY SPACE
EV2
EV VAN READY SPACE 
EV3
EV ACCESSIBLE SPACE
EV
EV AMBULATORY READY SPACE
CLEAR STRIPING - NO PARKING
P
PARALLEL SPACE
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:18 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - PARKING LOT
2019
A213
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A213
2
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 03 - PARKING LOT
PARKING TABULATION - L3 PUBLIC
TYPE
COUNT
ACCESSIBLE 9' x 18'
3
COMPACT  8'-6" x 17'
98
EV 9 'x 8'
22
EV ADA 9 'x 8'
1
EV AMBULATORY  10 'x 18'
1
STANDARD 8'-6"'x18'
30
Grand total: 155
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 123 ---
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
1
A323
________________________
1
A323
________________________
A312
2
A311
2
A311
1
A312
1
2
A323
________________________
2
A323
________________________
RAMP UP
RAMP DN
RESIDENTIAL PRIVATE PARKING SECURITY GATE 
PUBLIC PARKING STALLS
                          
STRIPED ZONE INDICATES CLEAR NO PARKING SPACE 
FOR GATE OPERATION AND PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION
BOLLARDS AT PEDESTRIAN ZONES, EXACT 
QUANTITIES AND LOCATIONS TO BE COORDINATED 
W/ THE CITY PRIOR TO BLDG PERMIT
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 0"
TYP EV
18' - 0"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
9' - 0"
18' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 0"
36' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
22' - 9"
17' - 0"
2' - 6"
2' - 9"
2' - 9"
1' - 6"
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 3"
17' - 0"
18' - 0"
18' - 0"
TYP STANDARD
8' - 6"
8' - 6" TYP COMPACT
9' - 0" TYP ACCESSIBLE
LEGEND
8'-2" MIN VERTICAL CLEARANCE
C
COMPACT SPACE
EV1
EV READY SPACE
EV2
EV VAN READY SPACE 
EV3
EV ACCESSIBLE SPACE
EV
EV AMBULATORY READY SPACE
CLEAR STRIPING - NO PARKING
P
PARALLEL SPACE
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:20 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - PARKING LOT
2019
A214
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A214
2
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 04 - PARKING LOT
PARKING TABULATION - L4 PUBLIC
TYPE
COUNT
ACCESSIBLE 9' x 18'
3
COMPACT  8'-6" x 17'
73
EV 9 'x 8'
22
EV ADA 9 'x 8'
1
EV AMBULATORY  10 'x 18'
1
STANDARD 8'-6"'x18'
4
Grand total: 104
PARKING TABULATION - L4 SECURED
TYPE
COUNT
COMPACT  8'-6" x 17'
23
STANDARD 8'-6"'x18'
24
Grand total: 47
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 124 ---
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c) 2019 Transoft Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
P
AASHTO 2011 (US)
(c)  2019 Transof t Solut ions, Inc. Al l rights reser ved.
1
A323
________________________
1
A323
________________________
A312
2
A311
2
A311
1
A312
1
2
A323
________________________
2
A323
________________________
5.06%
RAMP DN
OPEN TO BELOW
RESIDENTIAL PARKING STALLS
                          
RAMP UP
DASHED LINE INDICATES SOLAR CARPORT (ABOVE)
BOLLARDS AT PEDESTRIAN ZONES, EXACT 
QUANTITIES AND LOCATIONS TO BE COORDINATED 
W/ THE CITY PRIOR TO BLDG PERMIT
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 0"
TYP EV
18' - 0"
1' - 6"
1' - 6"
9' - 0"
18' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 0"
36' - 0"
DRIVE AISLE
22' - 9"
17' - 0"
2' - 6"
2' - 9"
2' - 9"
1' - 6"
DRIVE AISLE
25' - 3"
17' - 0"
18' - 0"
18' - 0"
TYP STANDARD
8' - 6"
8' - 6" TYP COMPACT
9' - 0" TYP ACCESSIBLE
LEGEND
8'-2" MIN VERTICAL CLEARANCE
C
COMPACT SPACE
EV1
EV READY SPACE
EV2
EV VAN READY SPACE 
EV3
EV ACCESSIBLE SPACE
EV
EV AMBULATORY READY SPACE
CLEAR STRIPING - NO PARKING
P
PARALLEL SPACE
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:22 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - PARKING LOT
2019
A215
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A215
2
FLOOR PLAN - LEVEL 05 - PARKING LOT
PARKING TABULATION - L5 SECURED
TYPE
COUNT
ACCESSIBLE 9' x 18'
4
COMPACT  8'-6" x 17'
79
EV 9 'x 8'
24
EV VAN 12'  x 18'
1
STANDARD 8'-6"'x18'
9
TOTAL: 117
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 125 ---
1
A323
________________________
1
A323
________________________
A312
2
A311
2
A311
1
A312
1
2
A323
________________________
2
A323
________________________
393' - 0"
10' - 5 3/4"
9"
121' - 9"
12' - 6"
OPEN TO BELOW
PROPERTY LINE
STRUCTURAL PV PANEL ABOVE TOP LEVEL 
CAR PARKING. EXACT DESIGN AND LAYOUT 
TO BE PROVIDED AT LATER DATE
ELEVATOR OVERRUN
EXTERIOR STAIR
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
PV PANEL
150' - 0"
CLR
10' - 0"
PV PANEL
150' - 0"
PV PANEL
17' - 0"
CLR
28' - 6"
PV PANEL
34' - 0"
CLR
25' - 3"
PV PANEL
17' - 0"
PV PANEL
27' - 11"
CLR
25' - 0"
PV PANEL
150' - 0"
CLR
10' - 0"
PV PANEL
135' - 0"
CLR
25' - 0"
PV PANEL
19' - 0"
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 3:42:22 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
ROOF PLAN - PARKING LOT
2019
A216
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A216
1
ROOF PLAN - PARKING LOT
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 126 ---
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
PL
PL
S CLAREMONT ST
S RAILROAD AVE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
70' - 8" HT TO PLATE
ADJACENT GRADE
118.58'
ADJACENT GRADE
122.33'
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
3
12
1
2
9
1
3
5
3
2
3
11
69' - 11 1/2"
0' - 8 1/2"
70' - 8"
2' - 11"
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
73' - 7" HT TO PLATE
26
26
34
30
6
4
4
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PL
PL
E 5TH AVE
E 4TH AVE
10
2' - 11"
70' - 8"
ADJACENT GRADE
117.75'
ADJACENT GRADE
118.58'
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
1
3
2
3
3
1
5
26
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
73' - 7" HT TO PLATE
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
74' - 5" HT TO PLATE
3' - 9"
70' - 8"
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/3/2020 5:54:55 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A301
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A301
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - WEST - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
1/16" = 1'-0"
A301
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTH - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
KEY
DESCRIPTION
1
WOOD RAILING
2
FIBER-REINFORCED CEMENTITIOUS PANEL
3
EXTERIOR CEMENT PLASTER
4
BRICK - LIGHT COLOR
5
METAL SIDING
6
METAL CANOPY & ADDRESS SIGNAGE
9
FIBER CEMENT LAP SIDING
10
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
11
ALUMINUM STOREFRONT
12
VINYL WINDOW
26
TRELLIS AT ROOF
30
METAL FENCE & GATE
34
EXPOSED ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE
COLUMN
1
2
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 127 ---
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
1
A321
________________________
1
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
2
A321
________________________
PL
PL
S RAILROAD AVE
S CLAREMONT ST
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
74' - 5" HT TO PLATE
ADJACENT GRADE
122.5'
ADJACENT GRADE
117.75'
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
3
1
2
9
12
3
3
1
5
10
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 8" HT TO PLATE
1' - 0"
70' - 8"
3' - 9"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
1
A322
________________________
1
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
2
A322
________________________
PL
PL
E 4TH AVE
E 5TH AVE
10
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 8" HT TO PLATE
1' - 0"
ADJACENT GRADE
122.5'
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
9
1
3
2
12
2
12
8
ADJACENT GRADE
122.33'
FROM ADJACENT GRADE
69' - 10" HT TO PLATE
0' - 10"
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:38 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A302
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A302
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - EAST - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
1/16" = 1'-0"
A302
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - SOUTH - HOUSING BLOCK - STREET
KEY
DESCRIPTION
1
WOOD RAILING
2
FIBER-REINFORCED CEMENTITIOUS PANEL
3
EXTERIOR CEMENT PLASTER
5
METAL SIDING
8
METAL SOLAR SUN SHADE DEVICE
9
FIBER CEMENT LAP SIDING
10
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
12
VINYL WINDOW
1
2
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 128 ---
2
A323
________________________
2
A323
________________________
LEVEL 01-G
1' - 6"
LEVEL 02-G
13' - 0"
LEVEL 03-G
24' - 6"
LEVEL 04-G
36' - 0"
LEVEL 05-G
47' - 6"
4' - 0"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
PL
PL
E 5TH AVE
31
31
MESH SECURITY FENCE
7
14
32
36
14
36
14
36
13
50' - 0"
1
A323
________________________
1
A323
________________________
1
A103
________________________
1
A103
________________________
+/- 38' - 6"
+/- 27' - 6"
JOINT POLE
JOINT POLE
LEVEL 01-G
1' - 6"
LEVEL 02-G
13' - 0"
LEVEL 03-G
24' - 6"
LEVEL 04-G
36' - 0"
LEVEL 05-G
47' - 6"
PL
PL
PG&E SUBSTATION
S RAILROAD AVE
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
10
31
6
EXIT DOOR FROM RATED EXIT 
CORRIDOR
32
14
36
13
GUY WIRES
9' - 10"
16' - 5 1/2"
GARAGE ENTRY
GUY WIRES
PEDESTRIAN ENTRY
46' - 0"
15' - 0"
ELEVATOR
38
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:40 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - GARAGE
2019
A311
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A311
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - SOUTH - GARAGE
1/16" = 1'-0"
A311
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - WEST - GARAGE
KEY
DESCRIPTION
6
METAL CANOPY & ADDRESS SIGNAGE
7
METAL GUARDRAIL
10
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
13
PV PANEL AT ROOF
14
POTENTIAL PUBLIC ART LOCATION
31
UPTRUNED CONC BEAM
32
VERTICAL FAÇADE SCREENING ELEMENT
36
VENTILATED FAÇADE SCREEN PANEL(S)
38
ENTRANCE SIGNAGE - TBD AT A LATER DATE
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 129 ---
1
A323
________________________
1
A323
________________________
1
A103
________________________
1
A103
________________________
LEVEL 01-G
1' - 6"
LEVEL 02-G
13' - 0"
LEVEL 03-G
24' - 6"
LEVEL 04-G
36' - 0"
LEVEL 05-G
47' - 6"
PL
PL
PG&E SUBSTATION
S RAILROAD AVE
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
31
34
31
13
37
10' - 0"
46' - 0"
2
A323
________________________
2
A323
________________________
LEVEL 01-G
1' - 6"
LEVEL 02-G
13' - 0"
LEVEL 03-G
24' - 6"
LEVEL 04-G
36' - 0"
LEVEL 05-G
47' - 6"
PL
PL
E 5TH AVE
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
10
13
OUTLINE OF PG&E SUBSTATION
OUTLINE OF SAN MATEO LUMBER
46' - 0"
7' - 6"
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:43 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS - GARAGE
2019
A312
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A312
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - EAST - PARKING LOT
1/16" = 1'-0"
A312
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTH - GARAGE
KEY
DESCRIPTION
10
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE
13
PV PANEL AT ROOF
31
UPTRUNED CONC BEAM
34
EXPOSED ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE
COLUMN
37
MESH SECURITY FENCE
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 130 ---
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
3' - 6"
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
11' - 8"
PL
PL
S CLAREMOUNT ST
E 5TH AVE
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
CIRC
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
CIRC
CIRC
2BD
2BD
74' - 2"
TYPE IIIA
TYPE IA
COURTYARD, SLD
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
COMMUNITY
ROOM
PL
S CLAREMONT ST
E 5TH AVE
2' - 0"
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
11' - 8"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
3BD
3BD
3BD
3BD
3BD
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
1BD
1BD
1BD
1BD
1BD
LOBBY
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
FITNESS
PL
TYPE IIIA
TYPE 1A
72' - 8"
CIRC
MECH/MAINT
MAINT
WC
COURTYARD, SLD
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
SHEET NOTES
1. 
FINISH FLOOR TO FINISH CEILING HEIGHTS:
A. 
8'-9" CH TYP
B. 
10'-8" CH AT ALL GROUND FLOOR AMENITY 
SPACES (LOBBY, COMMUNITY RM, BIKE 
RM)
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:46 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
BUILDING SECTIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A321
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A321
1
BUILDING SECTION - HOUSING BLOCK - 01
1/16" = 1'-0"
A321
2
BUILDING SECTION - HOUSING BLOCK - 02
1
2
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"

--- page 131 ---
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
4' - 2"
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 10 1/2"
LEVEL 01A
122' - 3 19/32"
PL
PL
S CLAREMONT ST
CAL TRAIN TRACKS
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
TYPE IIIA
TYPE IA
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
2BD
STUDIO
STUDIO
STUDIO
1BD
2BD
1BD
2BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
2BD
STUDIO
1BD
2BD
STUDIO
2BD
1BD
2BD
1BD
1BD
1BD
74' - 0 1/2"
CIRC
CIRC
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
2' - 0"
LEVEL 02
13' - 8"
LEVEL 03
23' - 8"
LEVEL 04
33' - 8"
LEVEL 05
43' - 8"
LEVEL 06
53' - 8"
LEVEL 01A
122' - 3 19/32"
S CLAREMONT ST
CAL TRAIN TRACKS
4' - 2"
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 10 1/2"
74' - 0 1/2"
T.O. PLATE (2)
72' - 8"
LEVEL 07
63' - 8"
CIRC
1BD
CIRC
1BD
1BD
1BD
1BD
1BD
1BD
1BD
1BD
1BD
1BD
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
PL
PL
TYPE IIIA
TYPE IA
COURTYARD, SLD
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
CIRC
SHEET NOTES
1. 
FINISH FLOOR TO FINISH CEILING HEIGHTS:
A. 
8'-9" CH TYP
B. 
10'-8" CH AT ALL GROUND FLOOR AMENITY 
SPACES (LOBBY, COMMUNITY RM, BIKE 
RM)
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:49 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
BUILDING SECTIONS - HOUSING BLOCK
2019
A322
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A322
1
BUILDING SECTION - HOUSING BLOCK - 03
1/16" = 1'-0"
A322
2
BUILDING SECTION - HOUSING BLOCK - 04
1
2
8'
16'
32'
48'
0
SCALE:  1/16" = 1'-0"
COURTYARD, SLD

--- page 132 ---
LEVEL 01-G
1' - 6"
LEVEL 02-G
13' - 0"
LEVEL 03-G
24' - 6"
LEVEL 04-G
36' - 0"
LEVEL 05-G
47' - 6"
PL
PL
PARKING GARAGE
E 5TH AVE
4' - 0"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
CONSTRUCTION
TYPE lA
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
4.50%
GARAGE HT LIMIT
53' - 6"
UNOCCUPIED SPACE BELOW RAMP
LEVEL 01-G
1' - 6"
LEVEL 02-G
13' - 0"
LEVEL 03-G
24' - 6"
LEVEL 04-G
36' - 0"
LEVEL 05-G
47' - 6"
PL
PL
PARKING GARAGE
PG+E STATION
CAL TRAIN TRACKS
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
11' - 6"
50' - 0"
13
ENCLOSED 
EGRESS CORRIDOR
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:51 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
BUILDING SECTIONS - GARAGE
2019
A323
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A323
1
BUILDING SECTION - GARAGE - 01
1/16" = 1'-0"
A323
2
BUILDING SECTION - GARAGE - 02
15
30
60
90
0
SCALE: 1" = 30'-0"
KEY
DESCRIPTION
13
PV PANEL AT ROOF

--- page 133 ---
FAÇADE MATERIAL PRECEDENTS
BALCONY/STOOP PRECEDENTS
PARKING GARAGE SCREENING PRECEDENT
VENTILATED FACADE SCREEN PANEL -
POTENIAL OPPURTUNITY FOR PUBLIC ART
VERTICAL FACADE SCREENING ELEMENT
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:52 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PRECEDENT IMAGERY
2019
A331
04.06.20
FAÇADE MATERIAL PRECEDENTS
FAÇADE MATERIAL PRECEDENTS

--- page 134 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:52 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PEDESTRIAL BRIDGE DESIGN
2019
A332
04.06.20
A332
2
SKETCH PERSPECTIVE ACROSS PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE TO GARAGE
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE PRECEDENT IMAGERY - BRIDGE EXTERIOR
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE PRECEDENT IMAGE:
DESIGN INTENT IS TO PROVIDE SCREENING THAT CREATES SECURE PEDESTRIAN 
BRIDGE ENCLOSURE.  SCREENING ELEMENTS WOULD ALLOW FOR VISIBILITY TO 
AND FROM BRIDGE WHILE PREVENTING CLIMBING OR JUMPING
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE PRECEDENT IMAGERY - BRIDGE INTERIOR
PEDESTRIAN BRIDGE PRECEDENT IMAGERY - BRIDGE INTERIOR

--- page 135 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:54 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
SOLAR PANEL AT GARAGE IMAGERY
2019
A333
04.06.20
PV CARPORT PRECEDENTS
PV CARPORT PRECEDENTS
PV CARPORT - CORNER AXON

--- page 136 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:57 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
MATERIAL BOARD
2019
A334
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A334
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - WEST - EXTERIOR MATERIALS
MATERIALS
CEMENT PLASTER
FIBER CEMENDT 
SIDING
BRICK
WOOD RAILING
FIBER CEMENT PANEL
METAL SIDING

--- page 137 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:58 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PERSPECTIVE - E 4TH AVE & S RAILROAD AVE
2019
A401
04.06.20
*UPDATED PER DESIGN REVIEW COMMENT - 1 HOUSING FACADES
PRECEDENT IMAGE: THE RUSSELL @ BAY MEADOWS 
WINDOWS @ CEMENT PLASTER ELEVATIONS  TO BE 
RECESSED 2" SIMILAR TO THE RUSSELL @ BAY MEADOWS 
3098 W KYNE ST, SAN MATEO, CA

--- page 138 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:58 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PERSPECTIVE - ALTERNATIVE COLOR SCHEME
2019
A402
04.06.20
CREAM CEM 
PLASTER
FIBER CEM 
PANEL
FIBER CEM 
SIDING

--- page 139 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:42:59 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PERSPECTIVE - S CLAREMONT ST SIDEWALK
2019
A403
04.06.20
*UPDATED PER DESIGN REVIEW COMMENT - 2 HOUSING STREET FACADES A-D

--- page 140 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:43:00 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PERSPECTIVE - S CLAREMONT ST SIDEWALK
2019
A404
04.06.20
*UPDATED PER DESIGN REVIEW COMMENT - 2 HOUSING STREET FACADES A-D

--- page 141 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:43:00 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PERSPECTIVE - E 5TH AVE & S CLAREMONT ST
2019
A405
04.06.20
*UPDATED PER DESIGN REVIEW COMMENT - 3 HOUSING: SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE FACADE

--- page 142 ---
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:43:01 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
PERSPECTIVE - E 5TH AVE & S RAILROAD AVE
2019
A406
04.06.20
1

--- page 143 ---
26'-0" - 28'-0"
BEDROOM/LIVING
KITCHEN
BATHROOM
CL
CL
17' - 0"
BATHROOM
BEDROOM
LIVING ROOM
KITCHEN
26'-0" - 28'-0"
CL
CL
24' - 0"
MASTER BEDROOM
BEDROOM
LIVING ROOM
KITCHEN
BATHROOM
CL
34' - 0"
26'-0" - 28'-0"
MASTER BEDROOM
BEDROOM
BEDROOM
LIVING ROOM
BATHROOM
BATHROOM
KITCHEN
CL
44' - 0"
26'-0" - 28'-0"
BARarchitects
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
4/9/2020 3:43:02 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
ENLARGED UNIT PLANS
2019
A501
04.06.20
1/4" = 1'-0"
A501
1
TYPICAL STUDIO
1/4" = 1'-0"
A501
2
TYPICAL 1 BEDROOM
1/4" = 1'-0"
A501
3
TYPICAL 2 BEDROOM
1/4" = 1'-0"
A501
4
TYPICAL 3 BEDROOM

--- page 144 ---
1841
1607
887
394
1623
417
54
436
15
74
497
96
264
579
1210
20
11
11
11
10
11
12
32
32
33
32
32
32
31
95
168
30
30
30
30
605
565
1496
1035
322
CONCRETE PAVING AT PLAZA: 1,607
CONCRETE PAVING: 2,868
SYNTHETIC TURF: 1,841
PLANTING ON SITE: 8,541
PLANTING AT ROW: 909
PLANTING(PARKING LOT ON SITE): 1,442
PLANTING(PARKING LOT AT ROW): 122
BIOSWALE(ON SITE):1614
BIOSWALE(NOT ON SITE):263
7TH FLOOR : 191
81
243
155
23
21
55
50
444
60
242
3
3
11
45
1607
54
436
605
3
155
SOUTH CLAREMONT STREET
EAST 4TH AVENUE
EAST 5TH AVENUE
SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE
12,300 SF
LEVEL 01 - RESIDENTIAL
21,327 SF
LEVEL 01 - RESIDENTIAL
OPEN SPACE LEGEND
COMMON OPEN SPACE
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
LEVEL 01 - RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY LINE
MAX SETBACK LINE
3
1
4
2
BRIDGE TO GARAGE
904 SF
COMMON OPEN SPACE
3,459 SF
COMMON OPEN SPACE
N
BARarchitects
N
c
BAR
C O P Y R I G H T 
architects
PROJECT NORTH
TRUE NORTH
4/9/2020 5:49:35 PM
c:\0 REVIT\San Mateo Downtown - A_AJalalianBEG8G.rvt
DOWNTOWN SAN MATEO OPPORTUNITY SITES
SAN MATEO, CA
17009
OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
2019
A511
04.06.20
1/16" = 1'-0"
A511
1
LEVEL 01 - OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
OPEN SPACE TABULATION
TOTAL NUMBER OF UNITS: 225
UNITS W/ PRIVATE OPEN SPACE (80sf MIN) = 4
UNITS W/O QUALIFIED OPEN SPACE = 225 - 4 = 221
REQUIRED COMMON OPEN SPACE: 221 UNITS x (80sf x 1.5) = 26,520 sf
TOTAL COMMON OPEN SPACE PROVIDED = 21,323 SF < 26,520 sf
OPEN SPACE AREAS
LEVEL
NAME
AREA
LEVEL 05
COMMON OPEN SPACE
904 SF
LEVEL 07
COMMON OPEN SPACE
3,459 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
COMMON OPEN SPACE
16,641 SF
3
21,004 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
80 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
80 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
80 SF
LEVEL 01(121.5' DATUM)
PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
80 SF
4
320 SF
Grand total: 7
21,323 SF
1/16" = 1'-0"
A511
2
LEVEL 05 - OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM
1/16" = 1'-0"
A511
3
LEVEL 07 - OPEN SPACE DIAGRAM

--- page 145 ---
LOCATION MAP 
PA 2019‐033 
480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 5th Avenue 
Address: 
480 E. 4th Avenue 
400 E. 5th Avenue  
San Mateo, CA 94401 
Parcel Number: 
034‐183‐060 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
033‐281‐140 
7TH AVE
S FREMONT ST
E 4TH AVE
E 3RD AVE
S DELAWARE ST
E 5TH AVE
S CLAREMONT ST
9TH AVE
S RAILROAD AVE
N RAILROAD AVE
S SAN MATEO DR
LAUREL AVE
S ELDORADO ST
2ND AVE
6TH AVE
S B ST
S ELLSWORTH AVE
MAIN ST
Project Site 
Att 2 – Location Map

--- page 146 ---
City of San Mateo General Plan - Applicable Policies 
Adopted October 18, 2010 
Development of the site is guided by the following relevant planning documents: 
1. General Plan Vision 2030
Available online at:  http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?NID=2021
2. City of San Mateo Zoning Code
Available online at:  http://www.cityofsanmateo.org/index.aspx?NID=1982
Applicable General Plan Elements and Policies are listed to facilitate further discussion and 
direction for the project at this preliminary stage.  
General Plan Vision 2030 
Land Use Element 
LU 1.4: 
Development Intensity/Density.  Adopt and maintain the development 
intensity/density limits as identified on the Land Use Map and Building Intensity 
Plan, and as specified in Policy LU 6A.2.  Development intensity/density shall 
recognize natural environmental constraints, such as flood plains, earthquake 
faults, debris flow areas, hazards, traffic and access, necessary services, and 
general community and neighborhood design.  Maintain a density and building 
intensity range, with densities/intensities at the higher end of the range to be 
considered based on provision of public benefits such as affordable housing, 
increased open space, public plazas or recreational facilities, or off-site 
infrastructure improvements. 
LU 1.5: 
Building Height.  Maintain maximum building height limits contained in 
Appendix C, and as specified in Policy LU 6A.2, closely matched with the Land 
Use categories and Building Intensity standards. 
LU 1.6: 
Residential Development.  Facilitate housing production by carrying out the 
goals and policies in the Housing Element. 
LU 1.7: 
Multi-Family Areas.  Allow multi-family areas to develop at densities delineated 
on the Land Use Map. 
LU 4.32: 
Recycling.  Support programs to recycle solid waste in compliance with State 
requirements.  Require provisions for onsite recycling for all new development. 
Att 3 – Applicable General Plan Elements and Policies

--- page 147 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2019-033, 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
Meeting of April 28, 2020 
Page 2 of 11 
 
 
LU 2.4:  
Downtown Plan. Establish downtown San Mateo as the social, cultural, and 
economic center of the City with a wide range of office, medical, residential, 
entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and densities while encouraging 
pedestrian activity and bicycle connectivity to adjacent neighborhoods. 
LU 2.10:  
Optimize Development Opportunities. Ensure that developments optimize the 
development potential of property in major commercial areas such as the 
Downtown Retail Core and along South El Camino Real. 
LU 3.1:  
Downtown Plan. As the social, cultural and economic center of the City, the 
downtown shall maintain a wide range of office, medical, residential, 
entertainment, and retail uses at high intensities and densities. 
LU 4.2:  
Developer's Contribution Policy. Require new development to pay on an 
equitable basis for new or expanded public improvements needed to support the 
new or changed land use or development. 
LU 4.4.5:  
Stormwater Treatment. Continue to implement the San Mateo Countywide 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program to ensure compliance with the National 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. 
LU 8.4:  
Sustainable Development. Incorporate Sustainability into existing single family 
and multifamily housing. Require sustainable features and techniques to address 
energy and water efficiency in remodels of existing structures. 
LU 8.9:  
Air Quality Construction Impacts. The City shall mitigate air quality impacts 
generated during construction activities by requiring the following measures:  
1. Use of appropriate dust control measures, based on project size and latest Bay 
Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) guidance, shall be applied to all 
construction activities within San Mateo. 
2. Applicants seeking demolition permits shall demonstrate compliance with 
applicable BAAQMD requirements involving lead paint and asbestos containing 
materials (ACM’s) designed to mitigate exposure to lead paint and asbestos.  
3. Utilization of construction emission control measures recommended by 
BAAQMD as appropriate for the specifics of the project (e.g., length of time of 
construction and distance from sensitive receptors). This may include the

--- page 148 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2019-033, 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
Meeting of April 28, 2020 
Page 3 of 11 
 
 
utilization of low emission construction equipment, restrictions on the length of 
time of use of certain heavy-duty construction equipment, and utilization of 
methods to reduce emissions from construction equipment (alternative fuels, 
particulate matter traps and diesel particulate filters).  
LU 8.11: 
Toxic Air Contaminants. The City shall require that when new development that 
would be a source of toxic air contaminants (TAC’s) is proposed near residences 
or sensitive receptors, either adequate buffer distances shall be provided (based 
on recommendations and requirements of the California Air Resources Control 
Board and BAAQMD), or filters or other equipment/solutions shall be provided 
to reduce the potential exposure to acceptable levels. 
Circulation Element 
C 1.2:  
Minimize Curb Cuts On Arterial Streets. Discourage creation of new curb cuts on 
arterial streets to access new development. Take advantage of opportunities to 
combine driveways and reduce the number of existing curb cuts on arterial 
streets. 
C 1.3:  
Protect Local Streets. Minimize the impact of new development on local streets. 
When warranted, construct improvements on local streets consistent with the 
City’s Neighborhood Traffic Management Program. 
C 1.4:  
Neighborhood Traffic Management. Manage traffic and speeds on arterials, 
collector and local streets using techniques specified in the City’s Neighborhood 
Traffic Management Program (NTMP). 
C 2.4: 
Transportation Fee Ordinance.  Require new developments to pay for on-site 
improvements to meet the needs of development and their proportionate share 
of the costs for mitigating cumulative traffic impacts within the City of San Mateo.  
Utilize a Transportation Fee Ordinance to finance necessary off-site improvements 
equitably.  The off-site improvements will include intersection and street 
improvements to maintain intersection levels of service, traffic safety 
improvements and improvements to reduce single occupant vehicle trips such as 
bicycle system enhancements, pedestrian improvements, and trip reduction 
measures.

--- page 149 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2019-033, 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
Meeting of April 28, 2020 
Page 4 of 11 
 
 
C 2.5: 
Traffic Studies.  Require site-specific traffic studies for development projects 
where there may be a substantial impact on the local street system.  Traffic 
impacts caused by a development project are considered to be unacceptable and 
warrant mitigation if the addition of project traffic results in a cumulative 
intersection level of service exceeding the acceptable level established in Policy C-
2.1; where there may be safety hazards created; or where there may be other 
substantial impacts on the circulation system. 
C 2.10:  
Transportation Demand Management (TDM). Participate in the TDM Program as 
outlined by the San Mateo City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG). 
Encourage TDM measures as a condition of approval for development projects, 
which are anticipated to cause substantial traffic impacts. C/CAG requires the 
preparation of a TDM program for all new development that would add 100 peak 
hour trips or more to the regional road network. 
C 2.12:  
Transportation Demand Management (TDM) in Downtown. Establish and 
implement a TDM program, a Transportation Management Association (TMA), 
and other measures to reduce vehicle trips and encourage transit use and 
promote bicycle and pedestrian accessibility for development within one-half mile 
of the Downtown transit center. 
C 4.1:  
Bicycle Master Plan. Implement the Bicycle Master Plan’s recommended 
programs and projects to create and maintain a fully-connected safe and logical 
bikeways system; support the City's Sustainable Transportation Actions; and 
coordinate with the countywide system. 
C 4.4:  
Pedestrian Master Plan. Implement the Pedestrian Master Plan’s recommended 
programs and projects to create and maintain a walkable environment in San 
Mateo and support the City’s Sustainable Transportation Actions. 
C 4.5: 
Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development.  Continue to require as a 
condition of development project approval the provision of sidewalks and 
wheelchair ramps where lacking and the repair or replacement of damaged 
sidewalks.  Require that utility poles, signs, street lights, and street landscaping on 
sidewalks be placed 
C 4.7:  
Pedestrian Safety. Pedestrian safety shall be made a priority in the design of 
intersection and other roadway improvements.

--- page 150 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2019-033, 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
Meeting of April 28, 2020 
Page 5 of 11 
 
 
C 4.9:  
Pedestrian and Bicycle Connections. Implement an area-wide pedestrian and 
bicycle circulation plan which will result in convenient and direct connections 
throughout San Mateo. Implementing connections in the Rail Corridor Transit-
Oriented Development Plan (Corridor Plan) area and into adjacent neighborhoods 
and districts is a priority. 
GOAL 5:  
Provide an adequate parking supply for new development. 
C 5.1:  
Parking Standards.  
a. 
Review parking requirements periodically to ensure adequate parking 
supply as a condition of development approval.  
b. 
Review parking requirements periodically to ensure adequate parking 
supply for change and/or expansion of land use resulting in increased 
parking demand. 
C 6.2:  
Single Occupancy Vehicles. Reduce single occupant automobile usage for local 
trips by implementing flexible alternative transportation programs within San 
Mateo such as bike share programs, car share programs, additional local shuttles 
for Caltrain connections and other programs that support reduced single-
occupant vehicle trips. Partners and program opportunities are identified and in 
the Climate Action Plan. 
C 6.5:  
Transit Oriented Development Areas (TOD). Concentrate future development 
near rail transit stations in the City’s designated TOD areas by collaborating with 
partners to provide incentives for development and transportation demand 
management within TOD areas, and encouraging developments within Transit 
Oriented Development Areas (TOD) to maximize population and employment 
within allowable zoning limits, consistent with direction from the City’s Climate 
Action Plan. 
Housing Element 
H 1.1:  
Residential Protection. Protect established single-family and multi-family 
residential areas by the following actions: 
1.  
Prevent the intrusion of incompatible uses not indicated in the Land Use 
Element as allowed in residential districts;

--- page 151 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2019-033, 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
Meeting of April 28, 2020 
Page 6 of 11 
 
 
2.  
Avoid the overconcentration on individual blocks of non-residential uses 
defined by the Land Use Element as being "potentially compatible" in 
residential areas; 
3.  
Assure that adequate buffers are provided between residential and non-
residential uses to provide design compatibility, protect privacy, and 
protect residences from impacts such as noise and traffic; and 
4.  
Review development proposals for conformance to the City's multi-family 
design guidelines for sites located in areas that contain substantial 
numbers of single-family homes to achieve projects more in keeping with 
the design character of single family dwellings. 
H 2.1:  
Fair Share Housing Allocation. Attempt to achieve compliance with ABAG Fair 
Share Housing Allocation for total housing needs and for low- and moderate-
income needs. 
H 2.3:  
Public Funding of Low- and Moderate-Income Housing.  Continue to use available 
funds to increase the supply of extremely low, very low, low- and moderate-
income housing through land purchases, rehabilitation and other financial 
assistance by partnering with nonprofit sponsors and applying for other subsidized 
financing from federal and state sources, tax credits, and the like. 
H 2.4:  
Private Development of Affordable Housing.  Encourage the provision of 
affordable housing by the private sector through: 
1. 
Requiring that a percentage of the units, excluding bonus units, in specified 
residential projects be affordable.  
2. 
Requiring construction or subsidy of new affordable housing as a condition 
for approval of any commercial development which affects the demand 
for housing in the City.  
3. 
Providing density bonuses and priority processing for projects which 
qualify for density bonuses under State law.  
H 2.6:  
Rental Housing. Encourage development of rental housing for households unable 
to afford ownership housing

--- page 152 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2019-033, 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
Meeting of April 28, 2020 
Page 7 of 11 
 
 
H 2.9:  
Multi-Family Location. Provide for the development of multi-family housing to 
create a diversity of available housing types 
H2.10:  
Housing Densities. 
1. 
Maintain a density range, with densities at the higher end of the range to 
be considered based on provision of public benefits such as affordable 
housing, increased open space, public recreational facilities off-site 
infrastructure improvements, or location adjacent or near (generally 
within a half-mile walking distance) transit nodes (Note: Related to Land 
Use Element Policy LU 1.4) 
 
2. 
Ensure that in appropriate densities are not permitted for lots of less than 
one-half acre. 
H 2.12:  
Mixed Use. Continue the policy of encouraging residential uses in existing 
commercial areas, or in locating adjacent or near transit nodes, where the 
residences can be buffered from noise and safety concerns and can provide 
adequate on-site parking and usable open space. Provide floor area and/or height 
bonuses for residential development in selected areas of the City.  
H 2.13:  
Transportation Oriented Development (TOD). Encourage well-planned compact 
development with a range of land uses, including housing, commercial, recreation 
and open space, in proximity to train stations and other transit nodes. Encourage 
the maximization of housing density where possible. 
H 3.1:  
Sustainable Housing Development. Incorporate Sustainability into existing and 
future single family and multifamily housing: 
1. 
Ensure that all existing and future housing, including both single family and 
multifamily housing, is developed in a sustainable manor. 
LU 1.6:  
Residential Development. Facilitate housing production by carrying out the goals 
and policies in the Housing Element 
Urban Design Element 
UD 1.5:  
Direct Corridors to Focal Points. Visually improve and direct toward focal points 
the major corridors of Third Avenue, Fourth Avenue, Hillsdale Boulevard and El

--- page 153 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2019-033, 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
Meeting of April 28, 2020 
Page 8 of 11 
 
 
Camino Real (SR 82) with the installation of street trees, street lights and 
consistent building setbacks. 
UD 1.7:  
Minor Corridors. Provide visual and pedestrian improvements on arterial streets 
such as Alameda de Las Pulgas, Peninsula Avenue, San Mateo Drive, Delaware 
Street, Norfolk Street and Mariner's Island Boulevard. 
UD 2.1: 
Multi-Family Design.  Ensure that new multi-family developments substantially 
conform to the City's Multi-family and Small Lot Multi-family Design Guidelines 
that address the preservation and enhancement of neighborhood character 
through building scale, materials, architectural style, quality of construction, open 
space, location of parking and lot size. 
UD 2.2: 
Building Scale.  Ensure that new multi-family developments respect the existing 
scale of the neighboring buildings by providing a change in the building face at 
spacing common to existing buildings and by stepping down building height 
towards the street to more closely match the height of existing buildings. 
UD 2.3: 
Style and Materials.  Encourage the design of new multi-family developments in 
areas with a dominant building style or dominant type of exterior building 
materials to complement the style and incorporate the common materials of the 
area. 
UD 2.4: 
Multi-Family Parking.  Encourage new multi-family developments to place parking 
underground or towards the rear of the parcel to avoid blank, ground floor walls 
and to screen views of parking from the street. 
UD 2.5:  
Multi-Family Open Space. Require that a portion of required open space be 
useable for passive or active recreation. 
UD 2.7:  
Respect Existing Scale. Encourage new commercial development to respect the 
scale of surrounding buildings by providing breaks in the building face at spacings 
common to buildings in the area and by stepping back upper floors. 
UD 2.14: 
Sustainable Design and Building Construction.  Require new development and 
building alterations to conform with the City's Sustainable Initiatives Plan and 
subsequent City Council adopted goals, policies, and standards pertaining to 
sustainable building construction.

--- page 154 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2019-033, 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
Meeting of April 28, 2020 
Page 9 of 11 
 
 
UD 2.15:  
Integrate Sustainable Design. Encourage integration of sustainable design 
features and elements into the building early in the design process. Important 
considerations include:  
a. Use of recycled, sustainably harvested, or locally sourced building materials 
such as siding, paving, decking, and insulation. 
b. Preservation and/or adaptive reuse of structures is preferred over demolition. 
Recycle and reuse materials on-site from dismantling and/or demolition of a 
building or site improvements as much as possible. c. Consideration of heat 
reflecting roof systems to reduce roof heat gain. Balance the benefits of light 
colored roofs with aesthetics. 
UD 2.16:  
Design and Placement of Solar Access and Panels. Encourage applicants to 
incorporate solar energy systems into their projects. Building owners can minimize 
non-renewable heating and cooling methods and maximize solar heat gain by 
using solar panels and innovative building design features such as the use of 
overhangs, having south-facing windows and planting trees that provide shade. 
Conservation and Open Space Element 
C/OS 6.1:  
Tree Preservation. Preserve heritage trees in accordance with the City's Heritage 
Tree Ordinance. C/OS 6.2: Replacement Planting. Require significant replacement 
planting when the removal of heritage trees is permitted. 
C/OS 6.2:  
Replacement Planting. Require significant replacement planting when the 
removal of heritage trees is permitted. 
C/OS 6.3:  
New Development Requirements. Require the protection of heritage trees during 
construction activity; require that landscaping, buildings, and other improvements 
located adjacent to heritage trees be designed and maintained to be consistent 
with the continued health of the tree. 
C/OS 6.4:  
Tree and Stand Retention. Retain the maximum feasible number of trees and 
preserve the character of stands or groves of trees in the design of new or 
modified projects. 
C/OS 6.6: 
New Development Street Trees.  Require street tree planting as a condition of all 
new developments in accordance with the adopted Street Tree Master Plan.

--- page 155 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2019-033, 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
Meeting of April 28, 2020 
Page 10 of 11 
 
 
C/OS 6.7:  
Street Tree Planting. Encourage the planting of new street trees throughout the 
City. 
C/OS 6.8:  
Street Tree Preservation. Preserve existing street trees; ensure adequate siting, 
selection, and regular maintenance of City trees, including neighborhood 
participation, for the purpose of keeping the trees in a safe and aesthetic 
condition. 
C/OS 10.1:  
Public Open Space Design. Review planning applications for opportunities to 
promote exceptional design and use of public open spaces in new developments 
and new public buildings.  
C/OS 16.5:  
Development Fees. Assess appropriate fees and taxes to ensure that new 
development contributes adequate funding to compensate for its impacts on 
recreation facilities and services. 
Noise Element 
N 1.1: 
Interior Noise Level Standard.  Require submittal of an acoustical analysis and 
interior noise insulation for all "noise sensitive" land uses listed in Table N-1 which 
have an exterior noise level of 60 dB (LDN) or above, as shown on Figure N-1.  
Maximum interior noise level shall not exceed 45 dB (LDN) in all habitable rooms.  
N 1.2: 
Exterior Noise Level Standard.  Require an acoustical analysis for new parks, play 
areas, and multi-family common open space (intended for the use and the 
enjoyment of residents) which have an exterior noise level of 60 dB (LDN) or 
above, as shown on Figure N-1.  Require an acoustical analysis which uses Leq for 
new parks and play areas.  Require feasibility analysis of noise reduction measures 
for public parks and play areas. Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into 
residential project design to minimize common open space noise levels.   
Maximum exterior noise should not exceed 67 dB for residential uses and should 
not exceed 65 dB (Leq) during the noisiest hour for public park uses.  
N 2.2: 
Minimize Noise Impact.   Protect all "noise sensitive" land uses listed in tables N-
1 and N-2 from adverse impacts caused by the noise generated on-site by new 
developments.  Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into development 
design to minimize noise impacts.  Prohibit long-term exposure increases of 3 dB

--- page 156 ---
Applicable General Plan Policies 
PA2019-033, 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
Meeting of April 28, 2020 
Page 11 of 11 
 
 
(LDN) or above at the common property line, or new uses which generate noise 
levels of 60 dB (LDN) or above at the property line, excluding ambient noise levels.

--- page 157 ---
City of San Mateo Downtown Plan – Applicable Policies 
Adopted June 6, 2005 
Policy III.2  
Pedestrian Amenities. Enhance the sidewalk environment of primary pedestrian 
streets as indicated on the Pedestrian, Park and Open Space Policies map, by 
providing improvements to the appearance, comfort, convenience and safety of 
pedestrian areas. Develop a Coordinated Streetscape Plan for future sidewalk 
amenities and physical improvements. 
Policy III.3:  
Building Bulk. Control the bulk of tall buildings to provide maximum sunlight 
exposure to sidewalks, streets, and open space; and to allow views through and 
out of the Downtown in a manner consistent with the City’s Building Height and 
Bulk Plan.  
Policy III.7:  
Pedestrian Access – Pedestrian Safety is a Priority in the Pedestrian 
improvements should incorporate the following concepts to develop a consistent 
pedestrian-friendly environment:  
a. Pedestrian access to peripheral garages should provide a safe and attractive
walking environment.
b. Sidewalks should be well maintained and be widened as opportunity becomes
available to provide a pedestrian boulevard experience that might include
elements such as outdoor dining.
c. Vertical street elements should be minimized to improve pedestrian access.
d. Continue practice of using pedestrian scale lights in the Downtown.
e. Monitor the placement of utilities and other similar items to ensure that they
do not adversely affect pedestrian movement and safety
Policy IV.1:      Building Heights.    Relate the height of new buildings to the pattern of 
downtown and to the character of existing and proposed development. 
Policy V.1 
Downtown Parking. Enhance Downtown Parking Supply. The following should be 
examined for feasibility: 
a. Public parking at 5th and Railroad Avenues in combination with
redevelopment of the site at 4th, 5th, and Railroad (former Kinko’s site).
b. Additional parking in the vicinity of 5th Avenue and San Mateo Drive in the
event that the existing Central Park Tennis Court Garage is demolished. This to
replace the eliminated spaces.
Att 4 – Applicable Downtown Plan Policies

--- page 158 ---
c. Public parking at the City-owned site bounded by 5th Avenue, the railroad, and 
South Claremont. 
Policy V.4:  
Public/Private Downtown Parking Partnerships. When sites are redeveloped, 
opportunities should be pursued for private/public partnerships to provide 
additional public parking within Downtown San Mateo. These may include 
providing excess parking for public use above project requirements, joint use of 
parking lots, or use of private lots during off-peak hours. 
Policy V.8:  
Parking for Projects Within One-Half Mile of the Downtown Transit Center. On 
a case-by-case basis, consider parking reductions for projects within 0.5 mile of 
the Downtown Transit Center. 
Policy VII.1: 
Re-use of the City’s 4th Avenue Site (former Kinko’s site).  Execute sale or lease 
of this City owned property for a suitable re-use. 
Policy VII.2:  Re-Use of City’s 5th Avenue Site. Determine a suitable re-use for the City owned 
site bounded by 5th Avenue, the railroad, and South Claremont Street. 
Policy VII.5:  Private Development in Conjunction With Public Facilities.  Wherever feasible, 
encourage private development in conjunction with public facilities, including air 
rights development and leased space. 
Policy VIII.2:  Transportation Demand Management (TDM). Required participation in TDM 
measures, such as car/van pooling, car sharing, staggered work hours and transit 
use, as a condition of approval for projects anticipated to generate significant 
parking and traffic impacts. 
Policy VIII.4:  Support Sustainable Transportation Initiatives. Implement Downtown Area Plan 
policies calling for use of Transportation Demand Management (TDM) measures, 
establishment of a Transportation Management Association (TMA), and other 
measures to reduce vehicle trips and encourage transit use and promote bicycle 
and pedestrian accessibility.

--- page 159 ---
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL & PARKING GARAGE DATA FORM 
NAME: 480 E. 4th Ave & 400 
E. 5th Ave
PA: 19-033 
ADDRESS: 480 E. 4th Ave & 
400 E. 5th Ave 
LOT SIZE: 50,587 SF (1.16 ac) 
& 54,471 SF (1.25 ac) 
ZONING: CBD/S 
APN: 034-183-060 & 
033-281-140
FLOOR AREA: 
   480 E. 4th Ave (multi-family) 
  400 E. 5th Ave (garage) 
PROPOSED1 
234,374 SF 
215,099 SF 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED 
151,761 SF 
163,413 SF 
FLOOR AREA RATIO: 
   480 E. 4th Ave (multi-family) 
      400 E. 5th Ave (garage) 
Combined (zoning plot) 
4.63 FAR 
3.95 FAR 
4.28 FAR2 
3.00 FAR 
3.00 FAR 
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: 
93.36 units/net acre3 (w/ state 
DB) 
Unlimited w/ state DB3 
BLDG. HEIGHT: 
74’-5” (multi-family bldg.) 
46’-0” (parking garage) 
55 ft 
STORIES: 
7 
No max, up to max height 
UNITS: 
225 
Base density (w/out DB): 121 
Max DB: unlimited3
UNIT TYPE 
Studio 
1-Bedroom:
2-Bedroom:
3-Bedroom:
TOTAL:
NO. 
65 
48 
53 
59 
225 
AVG. PROPOSED SIZE 
468 SF 
624 SF 
884 SF 
1,144 SF 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
- 
- 
- 
- 
SETBACKS: 
480 E. 4th Ave property 
E. 4th Ave (front):
S. Claremont (street side):
S. Railroad (side):
E. 5th Ave (rear):
400 E. 5th Ave property 
Front: 
Left side: 
Right side: 
Rear: 
PROPOSED (varies) 
3’ to 7’ (18’ to 21’ for plaza) 
2’-9” to 6’-9” 
1’-8” to 6’-3” 
  4’ to 7’ 
0’ 
9” 
12’-6” 
10’ 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
0’ 
0’ 
0’ 
0’ 
0’ 
0’ 
0’ 
0’ 
PARKING: 
Resident: 
Public Parking Garage: 
TOTAL PARKING: 
PROPOSED 
164 
532 
696 
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
 (0.5 space per unit per state DB)4 
113 
LOADING SPACES: 
10’ x 40’ at on-street 
10’ x 25’ off-street 
BICYCLE PARKING: 
Studio (65): 
1-Bedroom:
2-Bedroom:
3-Bedroom:
PROPOSED 
Short-term          Long-term 
0.05/unit=3.25   1.0/unit=65 
0.05/unit=2.40      1.0/unit=48 
0.10/unit=5.30  1.25/unit=66.25    
0.15/unit=8.85    1.50/unit=88.50  
MINIMUM REQUIRED 
Short-term 
  Long-term 
0.05/unit=3.25   1.0/unit=65 
0.05/unit=2.40      1.0/unit=48 
0.10/unit=5.30  1.25/unit=66.25    
0.15/unit=8.85    1.50/unit=88.50  
Att 5 – Factual Data Sheet

--- page 160 ---
TOTAL: 
          20                           268 
                
          19.80                   267.75 
 
OPEN SPACE: 
              Private: 
 
Common: 
 
Total: 
 
PROPOSED 
320 SF (4 units x 80 SF min.) 
 
21,004 SF 
 
21,323 SF 
 
MIMIMUM REQUIRED 
80 SF useable open space/unit or 
150% sf private usable open space 
in common usable open spaces if 
private open space cannot be 
provided (27,000 SF) 
 
LOT COVERAGE: 
   480 E. 4th Ave (multi-family) 
      400 E. 5th Ave (garage) 
 
PROPOSED 
 
~66% 
~88% 
MAXIMUM 
 
100% 
FOOTNOTES: 
1. Includes leasing area, lobby, mechanical rooms, trash rooms, covered corridors, storage areas, 
community room, et cetera (exempted areas not incuded). 
2. Density bonus concession.  
3. Base density is 50 units per acre, or 121 units (2.41 acres). The provisions of AB 1763 exempt 
the housing development from any maximum controls on density when qualifying projects are 
located within a half-mile of a major transit stop.     
4. Inclusive of accessible and visitor parking per density bonus.

--- page 161 ---
April 21, 2020 
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner 
Planning Division, Community Development Department 
City of San Mateo 
339 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
RE:  DTSM Opportunity Sites – Request for Concessions under State Density Bonus Law  
Dear Mr. Brennan, 
MidPen Housing (“MidPen”) is proposing to develop 400 E. 5th Avenue and 480 E. 4th Avenue as, 
respectively, a multi-level, parking garage containing approximately 696 stalls and a 225-unit multi-
family housing development serving low-income families. The garage will include a minimum of 164 
stalls dedicated as residential parking for the adjacent housing development. An estimated 532 stalls will 
be public parking managed by the City. 
This letter is MidPen’s current formal request for exemptions and concessions for the project through 
California Government Code Section 65915 et seq. (“Density Bonus Law”) and the City’s Density Bonus 
Ordinance, Chapter 27.15 of the municipal code.  MidPen reserves the right to modify this letter and its 
formal request for exemptions and concessions as necessary during the City’s entitlement review process.  
The State Density Bonus Law, as amended January 1, 2020 via Assembly Bill 1763, exempts a qualifying 
housing development within one-half mile of a major transit stop from city maximum controls on density 
and from city minimum vehicular parking requirements. In addition, it allows a height increase of up to 
three additional stories or 33 feet and confers up to four development incentives or concessions.  The 
proposed MidPen Housing project is a qualifying housing development, as 100% of the units will be 
restricted to low-income households.   
MidPen is requesting that the City recognize this project’s exemption from city maximum controls on 
density and right to construct up to three additional stories or 33 feet beyond the maximum building 
height permitted by the underlying zoning district. With the bonus, the density is 93.36 units/acre; without 
the bonus, the allowable density is 50 units/acre. With the exemption, the proposed is height is 7 stories; 
without the exemption, the height is 5 stories. 
MidPen is also requesting that the City recognize this project’s exemption from a minimum parking 
requirement. With this exemption and the proposed development located within a half-mile of major 
transit, the maximum required parking ratio is to be no more than 0.5 parking spaces/per unit and 
therefore, any additional parking spaces above the maximum requirement is voluntary.   This proposed 
development is voluntarily proposing a higher parking ratio of 0.73 parking spaces/per unit (164 parking 
spaces). 
Finally, we are requesting the following development concessions: 
Att 6 – Draft Density Bonus Letter

--- page 162 ---
2 
 
 
1. Floor Area Ratio (FAR) 
The maximum FAR for the 400 E. 5th Avenue and 480 E. 4th Avenue site is currently 3.0. In order to 
build the proposed residential development and garage structure, the proposed development would 
require approval for FAR of 4.28.  Therefore, a concession toward the allowable FAR is required in 
order to develop 225 units, otherwise, the proposed development would either result in a loss of units 
and/or parking spaces.  For example, in order to meet a FAR of 3.0, the residential area would need to 
be reduced by approximately 4 stories and result in a loss of approximately 130 units.  Alternatively, 
in order to maintain the unit count of 225 units, the garage would need to be reduced by 
approximately 3 stories, resulting in the loss of approximately 437 parking spaces.  To spread the loss 
of units and parking spaces while meeting the current maximum FAR, the residential area would need 
to be reduced by 2 stories, resulting in the loss of approximately 65 units, and the garage structure 
would need to be reduced by 1.5 stories, resulting in a loss of 229 parking spaces.  In lieu of reducing 
the parking garage by 1.5 or 3 stories, the garage could be built to have these parking spaces be 
provided on subterranean levels of garage instead of above ground; however, building subterranean 
parking spaces are cost prohibitive and would add at least approximately $11 million to the cost of the 
garage.  Despite these various alternatives in order to meet the current FAR, all result in the loss of 
units and/or replacement and new parking spaces.   In having to reduce garage area, the proposed 
development would no longer be able to provide both, the proposed number of residential parking 
spaces in addition to the replacement and new public parking spaces for the City which were required 
for the proposed development.   
 
2. Residential Parking on Separate Site 
Including on-site residential parking as required under San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.64.060 
(2) would inhibit the development by forcing two floors containing approximately 55 units to be 
replaced with podium parking spaces.  In order to offset the loss of units due to the addition of podium 
parking spaces, an additional residential floor could be added to the project, resulting in a total of 
eight floors; however, the project would not be able to maintain the density proposed and comply with 
the on-site residential parking requirement, within the allowable building height, and so there would 
be a total loss of approximately 34 units.  Providing residential parking onsite and underground, 
beneath the residential structure, is not feasible due to the high cost (minimum of $50,000 in 
additional costs per stall, or more than $8,200,000) and anticipated need for a vapor mitigation system 
beneath the residential structure. Resident access to the 164 residential parking spaces in the 400 E. 5th 
Avenue garage will be provided via a pedestrian bridge. The pedestrian bridge, designed for residents 
only, will connect the two neighboring structures by spanning 5th Avenue.  Given the permitted 
building height allowed by the density bonus, this on-site parking requirement would physically 
preclude the project at the density and concessions proposed as affordable housing units would have 
to be eliminated to provide on-site parking stalls. 
 
3. Bulk  
The 480 East 4th Avenue site does not meet the Bulk standards or the variation criteria included in the 
City’s Municipal Code 27.40.030.  The Bulk standards require that building above 55 feet be 
restricted to a maximum building dimension of 150 lineal feet and maximum diagonal dimension of 
170 lineal feet.  Since this project exceeds these dimensions, a concession toward the Bulk standard is 
required in order to develop the proposed 225 units in a cost-effective approach.  If the project were to 
comply with the current standards, it would result in the loss of approximately 86 units or require 4 
additional stories (totaling 11 stories) to be added and building to be Type I construction be added in 
lieu of losing these 86 units.  Either of these changes would be required because the building footprint

--- page 163 ---
3 
 
would need to be reduced in order to comply with the maximum building dimension and diagonal 
dimension.   
 
Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Michelle Kim 
Senior Project Manager 
 
Cc: Nevada V. Merriman, Director of Housing Development 
 
Alex Rogala, Senior Associate Project Manager 
 
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager, City of San Mateo 
 
Kohar Kojayan, Community Development Director, City of San Mateo 
Sandra Council, Housing Manager, City of San Mateo

--- page 164 ---
April 1, 2020
Mr. Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner
Department of Community Development
City of San Mateo
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA  94403-1388
RE:		
480 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Dear Phillip:
I reviewed the drawings, evaluated the site, viewed the video of the Planning Commission Study Session, and prepared 
review letters on August 22 and November 15. Staff has worked with the applicant  over the last several months to ad-
dress the concerns identified in the review letters. A modified design has now been completed at the city’s direction to 
add two additional floors of residential units. My comments on the current plans and elevations are as follows:
SITE CONTEXT
The site is located in Downtown San Mateo in a transition area between the retail core and the residential and smaller 
retail neighborhood to the east. The site is immediately adjacent to the railroad corridor. Photographs of the site and sur-
roundings are shown on the following page.
ARCHITECTURE	
PLANNING	
URBAN DESIGN
Att 7 – Design Review Letter (April 1, 2020)

--- page 165 ---
Nearby structures across South Railroad Avenue
Aerial of Site looking west
Approved Mixed Use project across East Fourth Ave
Mixed uses across South Claremont Avenue
Adjacent utility substation on East Fifth Avenue
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 2

--- page 166 ---
PROPOSED PROJECT
The 	project consists of two structures on two separate parcels. The parcel between East Fourth Avenue and East Fifth 
Avenue has been increased from 164 affordable multifamily residential units on five floors to 225 units on seven 
floors. A total of 696 residential and public parking spaces are planned on the south block. The site and landscape 
plan in the context of the immediate neighborhood is shown on the aerial photo below..
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 3

--- page 167 ---
ISSUES AND CONCERNS
When the Planning Commission reviewed the project in a Study Session on April 23, 2019 there was general approval 
expressed for the site plan and housing design. There were, however, a few concerns expressed by the commissioner, and 
the public who spoke to the commission:
1.	 The parking structure had too many cars and it seemed to dominate the project.
2.	 Although the applicant stated that the intent of the residential patios was to blend in with the nearby residential 
neighborhood, some members of the public and some commissioners expressed a desire for the ground floor to be 
more supportive of the pedestrian environment.
3.	 Building design should be softer.
In my August 22 review letter, I identified the following issues that the Planning Commission might wish to discuss with 
the applicant. The applicant responded positively following that review. The issues and applicant responses are summa-
rized below. The subsequent increase in residential building height from 5 to 7 stories will have some other impacts, but 
the ones described below will generally be the same unless noted otherwise.
1.	 HOUSING FACADES: GENERAL
Concern: All of the windows were shown nearly flush with the adjacent wall planes.
Recommendations: Recess all of the windows and spandrel panels located in the ce-
ment plaster panels .
Applicant’s Response (November 2019): Windows at cement plaster exterior walls 
have been recessed 2”.
See proposed window examples below.
Remaining Concerns: None.
2.	
The Russell @ Bay Meadows
3098 W. Kyne Street
San Mateo
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 4

--- page 168 ---
HOUSING PRIMARY STREET FACADES
Concern: Comments at the Planning Commission Study Session suggested some improvements to the ground 
floor patio and landscaping treatment to improve the pedestrian environment and provide elements to better link 
the development to the nearby residential neighborhood. As originally proposed, the sidewalk frontages would 
have some landscaping in front of the lower floor patios, but the patio wall, being elevated above grade level could 
create a pedestrian environment that would not be as welcoming as it could be.
Recommendations: 
A. Step landscaping up and back to soften edge.
B. Soften fence with plants
C. Add trellises.
D. Limit height of walls between adjacent patios to the front railing height
Applicant’s Response (November 2019): 
A. Given spatial constraint proposed additional planter is not feasible. Landscape Architect confirmed (2) 
layers of planting was achievable as an alternate screening approach. The first row of planting to be lower, 
while the second(rear) row of planting to be taller. Proposed planting shall be tall enough to screen concrete 
base of patio. 
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 5

--- page 169 ---
B. Per Mid Peninsula Housing guidelines, building or railing attached planting creates long term mainte-
nance issues. Proposed planting revision would provide the desired softening effect.
C. BAR Architects would like to propose an alternate approach to add detail and softness to projections at 
stoops in lieu of providing a trellis. Proposed alternate includes adding a steel channel trim piece at the base 
of projection as well as alternate soffit material.
D. Height of privacy screen between patios has been reduced to railing height. Railing design has also been 
modified to increase visibility through the railing, and reduce the perceived height from the street.
Remaining Concerns: None.
3.	 HOUSING: SOUTH RAILROAD AVENUE FACADE
Concern: The South  Railroad Avenue facade was different from the three other primary street facades in that it 
had a wide facade in its middle with no projecting bays as were common on the other facades. Although this fa-
cade fronts on a minor street compared to the other facades, it would be easily viewed from both East Fourth and 
East Fifth Avenue, and would be seen by hundreds of Caltrain commuters every day.
Recommendation: Add projecting bays similar to those on the other facades.
Applicant’s Response (November 2019): Projecting bays were added to Southern facade.
Remaining Concerns: This change was accepted as a significant improvement.
However, the change in this facade in the 7-story new design is cause for some concern as addressed in the 
facade change evaluations below.
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 6

--- page 170 ---
3.	 PARKING STRUCTURE
Concern: Comments at the Planning Commission Study Session ranged from too many cars/too big to its per-
ceived visual dominance of the overall project. My own evaluation was that, as originally proposed, it would not 
be a very attractive addition to Downtown San Mateo, and a less-than-optimum City of San Mateo iconic symbol 
regarding views by the hundreds of daily Caltrain commuters. The facades were tall and offered little in the way of 
pedestrian environment enrichment at ground level. Additional tall buffer landscaping along the South Railroad 
Avenue frontage would be difficult because of the proposed bioswale along the side of the structure.
Recommendations: 
The review noted that there were a number of approaches which might be appropriate to this site. Some ex-
amples of approaches to enhancing the appearance of utilitarian garage structures were provided including 
the addition of public art. 
Applicant’s Response (November 2019): 
Garage design was modified to reflect Design Review comments. Solid wall panels were added to Southern 
elevation along Cal Train corridor to break down the relentless rigor of the previously expose garage struc-
ture. These ‘solid’ panels are proposed to be a ventilated fabric screen which could be an opportunity for 
public art, signage or to add color and pattern to the facade.
In addition to these panels, sculptural vertical fins were added to the west and south facades which are the 
elevations most visible to the public. These vertical fins would mask the utilitarian concrete garage structure 
beyond and add interest to the key elevations.
Remaining Concerns: None.
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 7

--- page 171 ---
CURRENT DESIGN WITH HEIGHT INCREASE EVALUATION
The proposed significant changes are limited to the residential structure’s facade height and articulation. The sketches 
below provided by the applicant show the change in scale of the project.
EAST FOURTH AVENUE FACADE: PREVIOUS 5-STORY DESIGN
EAST FOURTH AVENUE FACADE: CURRENT 7-STORY DESIGN
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 8

--- page 172 ---
EAST FOURTH AVENUE AND SOUTH RAILROAD STREET FACADES: CURRENT 7-STORY DESIGN
EAST FOURTH AVENUE AND SOUTH RAILROAD STREET FACADES: PREVIOUS 5-STORY DESIGN
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 9

--- page 173 ---
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 10

--- page 174 ---
ISSUES AND CONCERNS
Overall, the design is well done for a project of this scale. I have only two concerns for consideration:
1.	 The South railroad Street facade, shown immediately above, is quite flat, and less visually interesting than the previ-
ous 5-story design which included projecting bay elements to break up the tall facade.
2.	 The building facades might not relate very well to the adjacent neighborhood context without some additional 
articulation. The two new projects across East Fourth Avenue (405 East Fourth Avenue and 406 East Third 
Avenue) both provide vertical facade offsets to create a lower street wall to better relate to the scale of the adjacent 
Downtown Area and to serve as a transition to the smaller scale neighborhoods to the east. The street facades of the 
current Mid-Peninsula Housing project are shown below in the context of those two recently approved projects.
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 11

--- page 175 ---
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 12

--- page 176 ---
Should the abrupt height and scale change be of concern to staff and the Planning Commission, consideration could be 
given to providing some additional articulation to the facades - similar to what was done across East Fourth Avenue and 
on the two recently constructed buildings at the corner of East Third Avenue and El Camino Real - see section diagram, 
photo and sketch below.
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 13

--- page 177 ---
For this project, that might require some additional setbacks on the upper floors, but looking at the drawings, it appears 
that this could be achieved with the extension of some building masses on the lower floors in select locations without any 
reductions in floor area. The illustrations below show some conceptual diagrams with color to emphasize increase projec-
tions. The applicant’s design team could refine the size and location of the projecting mass to better relate the scale of this 
project with those across East Fourth Avenue and in Downtown San Mateo.
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 14

--- page 178 ---
Phillip, please let me know if you have any questions, or if there are specific issues of concern that I did not address.
Sincerely,
CANNON DESIGN GROUP
Larry L. Cannon   
405 East Fourth Avenue
Mid-Peninsula Housing
Design Review Comments
April 1, 2020	
  Page 15

--- page 179 ---
City of San Mateo | Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan  
Alta Planning + Design | A-7 
A.4. Sidewalk Standards – Residential Type B Constrained
Att 8 – City of San Mateo Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan – Applicable 
Sidewalk Standards

--- page 180 ---
Appendix A | Pedestrian Design Guidelines

A.5.idewalk Standards — Residential Type C New Development

Type C - New Development

PARKING/ a 10’ - 15’ MIN.

TRAVEL LANE ri THROUGH SETBACK
6” CURB ZONE

4’MIN., 6’ REC:
PLANTER/FURNITURE ZONE

9’-6” MIN., 12’ REC.
OVERALL
SIDEWALK WIDTH

‘
*Graphics show recommended dimensions.

A-8 | Alta Planning + Design

NOTES

* Application for
new, higher density
neighborhoods with
minimum of 10’-15’
setback required.

» Locate stormwater
treatment features in
planter/furniture zone.

« Locate street trees
in tree grates within
planter/furniture zone.

Callander Associates ¢ @ i



--- page 181 ---
PA2019-033 
480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue 
SAMPLE FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL  
SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR) FINDINGS (SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE 
SECTION 27.08.030):  
The application shall be approved if the Commission finds all of the following to exist: 
1. The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the
character of the neighborhood;
2. The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth
of the City;
3. The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in
the vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or
welfare;
4. The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning
Commission and City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct
any violations of the zoning ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes
that exist on the site;
5. The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection,
crime prevention, and security.
SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR) FINDINGS FOR A STREET LOADING ZONE 
(SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 27.64.390):  
Approval of a site plan and architectural review by the Development Review Board shall be 
made based on the finding that each of the following conditions pertain: 
1. Adequate on-street parking is available along the parcel frontage to
accommodate a loading vehicle;
2. On-street parking intended for temporary loading purposes is located at least 50
feet from any intersections, and provides convenient access to building
entrances; and
3. The street width is adequate to accommodate loading vehicles without impeding
use of the sidewalk or local traffic circulation or otherwise be detrimental to
public safety.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION FINDINGS FOR TREE REMOVAL 
(MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 23.40.040): 
Approve the Site Development Planning Application for removal of major vegetation, 
finding that: 
Att 9 – Sample Findings for Planning Application Approvals

--- page 182 ---
Sample Findings for Approval 
PA2018-077 480 E. 4th Ave & 400 E. 5th Ave Pre-Application 
Meeting of April 23, 2019 
Page 2 of 2 
 
 
 
 
1. The project will result in the removal of  ___ trees,   of which ___are considered 
Heritage Trees. The removal of these trees is necessary to accommodate the 
development of the proposed project. The project’s arborist report states that … 
2. All concerns regarding tree removal and protection of remaining trees on the site 
have been addressed as conditions of approval requiring conformance to the 
City's landscape regulations, through the provision of extensive on-site 
landscaping as shown on the project plans, and/or through the payment of a fee 
to the City’s tree planting fund. 
 
SPECIAL USE PERMIT (MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 27.74.020) 
 
Approve the Special Use Permit for a public parking facility, finding that: 
 
1. The Special Use Permit will not adversely affect the general health, safety and/or 
welfare of the community nor will it cause injury or disturbance to adjacent 
property by traffic or by excessive noise, smoke, odor, noxious gas, dust, glare, 
heat, fumes, or industrial waste.

--- page 183 ---
Neighborhood Meeting 
Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites 
February 24, 2020 
PLANNING APPLICATION: 
PA18-077 480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue – City 
Owned Former Redevelopment Sites – Affordable 
Housing Pre-App 
PROJECT LOCATION: 
480 E. 4th Avenue & 400 E. 5th Avenue, San Mateo 
MEETING LOCATION: 
San Mateo Central Park Recreation Center 
MEETING DATE/TIME: 
February 24, 2020 
ATTENDEES: 
Public – See Sign-In Sheet 
PURPOSE OF MEETING: 
Pre-Application neighbor outreach to provide an update 
of proposed project to obtain feedback and answer 
questions or concerns. 
PRESENTATION: 
Approximately 30 Minutes 
Part 1: Introduction 
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner at the City of San 
Mateo, welcomed attendees, reviewed the agenda for 
the meeting, and introduced the format of the event. 
Part 2: Project History 
Kathy Kleinbaum, Assistant City Manager at the City of 
San Mateo, provided an overview of the project history, 
including the selection of MidPen through a RFP process 
in April 2018, prior community meetings in October 2019 
and March 2019, City Council-directed changes to the 
original concept at a November 2019 Study Session, and 
the decision to proceed with increased height and 
density given at a February 2020 Study Session. 
Part 3: About MidPen 
Nevada Merriman, Director of Housing Development at 
MidPen, provided an overview of development, property 
management, and resident services at MidPen Housing 
Corporation as well as examples of MidPen’s residential 
communities in San Mateo City and County. Nevada also 
spoke to the anticipated timeline for the project, 
including the path to entitlements approvals in July 2020 
and construction beginning in Fall 2021. 
Part 4: Design Concept 
Bradley Sugarman, Senior Associate at BAR Architects, 
presented a map illustrating the project’s surrounding 
context, a site plan, and renderings of key perspectives. 
Att 10 – February 24, 2020, Formal Neighborhood Meeting Minutes

--- page 184 ---
Bradley also spoke about the design approach to the 
garage. 
 
 
Part 5: Project Details 
Nevada Merriman spoke about MidPen’s proposed 
parking management strategies, the public art approach, 
and changes to the unit mix due to the increased height 
and density directed by City Council at the February 3, 
2020 City Council Study Session. 
 
 
Part 6: Conclusion 
Phillip Brennan explained the current status of the traffic 
analysis and environmental review process. The 
presentation concluded with a review of the anticipated 
timeline and next steps for the City and MidPen. 
 
QUESTION & ANSWER SESSION: 
Approximately 30 Minutes 
 
Speaker 
Comment/Question 
Response 
Neighbor 1 
How does this proposal work with 
Measure P? 
 
Does the State law allow preemption of 
local City law? 
Kathy: AB 1763, which is for 
100% affordable housing near 
transit, allows for increased 
height. Allows us to go beyond 
Measure P restrictions.  
 
Bradley: The height was 55’ and 
is now around 70-75’. 
Neighbor 2 
We need low income housing. 
However, Central neighborhood 
homeowners are concerned about 
height. This project looks just like the 
KMART project on Concourse. I am 
concerned about the traffic. Only way 
on and off Highway 101 is 3rd Avenue.  
We need housing for teachers, 
firefighters, but I’m concerned about 
traffic. 
Kathy: Thank you for your 
comment. 
Neighbor 3 
What are the noise impacts? Noise level 
is horrible where I live. How will 
residents live there, and how will they 
deal with noise from the train in the 
building? 
Nevada: We will use thicker walls 
and better windows on the train 
side of the residential building. 
We are working with an 
acoustical consultant. Federal 
government has more stringent 
requirements that we will need to 
meet based off of funding for the 
propose development, so we 
provide better quality than most 
market rate developments.

--- page 185 ---
Neighbor 4 
What happened to the Worker 
Resource Center? 
Kathy: The City is actively looking 
for commercial sites in San 
Mateo.  We’re concentrating on 
the Amphlet corridor. Access to 
freeway is critical for many 
people who hire day laborers. 
Neighbor 5 
Regarding noise from train, I’m a 
commuter. Why don’t we have double 
gates so trains can pass without having 
to blow the horn? It’s worse at night and 
it’s deafening for children. 
Kathy: Train noise is top priority 
for City Council. We are working 
with the federal government but 
it’s not an easy or low cost 
solution. 
Neighbor 6 
I live on 5th and Delaware. I support 
affordable housing but we’re 
concerned about extra two levels. I 
moved from SF to San Mateo to live in a 
small town. Grandparents, who provide 
childcare, need a place to park. I am 
concerned about the impact on the 
residential parking situation. Most 
people have cars, like the mother and 
father of most families. 
Kathy: The residential parking is 
on top of 532 public parking 
stalls. Shared used of the public 
parking may be possible. 
 
Nevada: It’s a lot about how you 
manage it. We have a no car 
preference at a property in 
Downtown San Jose and in 
Belmont. Many households are 
changing how they use cars. 
Neighbor 7 
Is there a chance that the PG&E 
substation will blow up? 
Kathy: We have safety mitigation 
measures. We studied this. Risk 
with this substation is that the 
coolant around the transformers 
is flammable but not explosive. 
However, we have onsite 
containment measures built in. 
Neighbor 8 
I care about garage. Is the garage open 
24/7? Who owns the residential? 
Kathy: The garage will be owned 
by the City. We will dictate the 
hours. Garage is both public and 
residential parking. 
 
Kathy: The City will own the land 
for the residential and garage. It’s 
about the City and MidPen 
coming together. 
 
Neighbor 9 
You’re adding 61 more units. Where 
will people park and put their vehicle? 
Nevada: We will continue to 
refine the parking management 
plan. Seniors do not park at 1 car 
to every home. People with 
developmental disabilities often 
have lower car ownership rates. 
 
Kathy: The public parking garage 
will add 297 parking, an increase

--- page 186 ---
in the overall parking supply. 
Shared use of the public parking 
may be possible. 
Neighbor 10 
Thank you for mentioning the people 
with developmental disabilities. There 
is a deep need for those people to have 
affordable housing. My son is here with 
developmental disabilities. There is a 
pressing need to ensure smooth 
transitions. I would be extremely 
grateful for this community to support 
housing for this population. 
Nevada: Thank you for sharing 
your experience. 
Neighbor 11 
What is the status of the parking study? 
Kathy: Our parking study is 
currently looking at parking 
during construction. We are 
exploring strategies for parking 
during non-construction times. 
Neighbor 12 
Is a certain percentage of units for IDD 
folks? 
Nevada: This is still under 
consideration. IDD units are most 
powerful when paired with S8 
voucher. We need to talk with the 
County about how many 
vouchers they want to set aside 
for IDD. 
Neighbor 13 
I am excited to see this project. How did 
you decide on this unit mix? 
Nevada: Putting together the unit 
mix is a puzzle. For example, 3BR 
units are best located at the 
building corners. We had to look 
carefully at how many units we 
could fit given the floor plan 
constraints. 
Neighbor 14 
This project is next to Caltrain. The 
future may be a viaduct with train tracks 
on the 3rd or 4th floor. How will the 
architect deal with future proofing the 
building to deal with potentially 
elevated rail track? 
Nevada: Peninsula station, 
between El Camino and the rail 
tracks, dealt with many of these 
issues. Federal money requires 
you do a predictive analysis. We 
are installing thicker walls, better 
window, and a ventilation system 
for better air quality so that 
residents can have access to 
fresh air without opening the 
window. The predictive analysis is 
for both interior and exterior 
noise. We need to see what 
measures will be adequate in 20 
years.

--- page 187 ---
Neighbor 15 
The traffic through Downtown San 
Mateo is horrendous. What will you do 
to make it easier to get onto 101? 
Kathy: The traffic analysis is 
underway. In April it will be 
published. 
 
Nevada: Some units will have a 
public employee preference and 
so residents will be employees of 
San Mateo City and County and 
will be commuting against the 
major flows. 
Neighbor 16 
You indicated that the report would 
look at impact on intersections. SB 743 
changes traffic impacts from level of 
service to VMT per capita. Can you 
clarify what you are looking at? 
Kathy: City is looking at both VMT 
(required under CEQA) and level 
of service (per general plan). So 
we will be looking at both. 
Neighbor 17 
Explain the income eligibility matrix, Is 
there a preference for public 
employees? What happens when they 
lose their job? 
Kathy: 25% public employee 
preference. No one will be 
evicted if their employment 
changes. 
 
Nevada: We would maintain two 
waiting lists. One for public 
employees and one for non-
public employees 
Neighbor 18 
My bedroom is across from the train 
tracks.  I don’t think noise is that bad. I 
am excited to be able to see 
construction in process for this 
development. Grocery stores are within 
walking distance. Many families are 
making the decision to go without a car. 
I and my wife share one car. 
Kathy: Thank you for your 
comment. 
Neighbor 19 
How long will construction last? 
Kathy: The construction period is 
estimated to last 21 months. 
Neighbor 20 
Are there any businesses in this 
development? 
Nevada: There will be no 
commercial space. 
Neighbor 21 
Will this building be earthquake-safe? 
Nevada: We will have to design 
and build to California’s building 
codes. 
Neighbor 22 
Is there a possibility of underground 
parking? Can we explore that?  Also, 
what about the bicycle route? Do we 
have any money going into the bike 
route? Why have a bike facility when 
you don’t have infrastructure for it? 
Nevada: underground parking is 
cost prohibitive. We have the 
pedestrian bridge.  
 
Bradley: Accessible parking 
spaces close to the bridge. 
Elevator close to where the 
bridge comes across. Cost and

--- page 188 ---
constructability issues. Impacts 
the livability of the residents.  
 
Nevada: About 2.5 people per 
unit. About 600 people. 
 
Nevada: We want to look more 
into what the City is doing on the 
bike plan. 
Neighbor 23 
Has anyone from City Council had to 
deal with people with disabilities? If you 
are someone with mobility issues, the 
last thing you’ll want to do is deal with 
this design. I’m exhausted dealing with 
my mobility issues. You need to bring 
more perspective from people with 
disability issues. We need affordable 
housing, but this isn’t going to help. 5 
story garage is blight. No one wants to 
see it lit up all night. 
Nevada: I would like to hear 
more from you after this meeting 
about your feedback. Thank you 
for sharing your experience. 
Neighbor 24 
What can be on the north garage wall? 
This, along with the pedestrian bridge, 
can be unique – don’t waste this 
opportunity. 
Nevada: Thank you for your 
comment.

--- page 189 ---
March 23, 2020 
Mayor Goethals, and City Council Members 
Chairperson Etheridge, and Planning Commissioners 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
RE: Endorsement of the Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites Project 
Dear Mayor Goethals, Planning Commissioners, and City Council Members 
For over 60 years, Greenbelt Alliance has helped create cities and neighborhoods that make the Bay Area a better
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
place to live - healthy places where people can walk and bike; communities with parks, shops, transportation
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
options; homes that are affordable - and defend the Bay Area’s natural and agricultural landscapes from sprawl
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
development. ​Greenbelt Alliance’s “Grow Smart Bay Area” goals call for fully protecting the Bay Area’s greenbelt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and directing growth into our existing communities, and accomplishing both in a way that equitably benefits all
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Bay Area residents. Our endorsement program helps further these goals by providing independent validation of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
smart infill housing (development of vacant land within urban areas) and mixed-use projects (allowing for various
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
uses like office, commercial and residential). 
Greenbelt Alliance is pleased to endorse the proposed “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites” project 
This is a 225-unit residential development, proposed by MidPen Housing Corporation, with 100% of units
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
affordable for residents with a commitment to deep affordability. Deed-restricted units in a range of sizes will be
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
available for low, very-low, and extremely-low income households identified as 30-80% of the Area Median Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(AMI). All parking is consolidated in an efficiently designed 5-story garage, which will also provide public parking
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
spaces, allowing existing downtown surface parking lots and garages to be redeveloped for more efficient and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
appropriate uses of space. The project site is extremely well located, within a short walk of the San Mateo Caltrain
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
station, and the downtown retail and services corridor. It is everyone’s responsibility to ensure that the land-use
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
potential is maximised. This project has been designed in response to community needs, and will provide much
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
needed affordable family housing in the job- and transit-rich downtown area. It will encourage a walkable and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
vibrant community in San Mateo for residents across the income spectrum, support the local economy, relieve
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
housing development sprawl pressure on the region’s open space, and offer a host of other environmental and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
quality of life benefits.”  
This is the kind of climate-smart development that we need in the Bay Area to meet our housing goals, reduce
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
greenhouse gas emissions, and make sure that local residents are able to grow and thrive in their own communities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as housing costs rise. In closing, the development of the San Mateo Downtown Opportunity Sites is another smart
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
step for the City of San Mateo to ensure the creation of homes and vibrant communities near transit. We hope its
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approval will inspire communities around the Bay Area to redouble their efforts to grow smartly.  
Sincerely, 
Alison Gibson 
Climate-Smart Development Specialist 
agibson@greenbelt.org​ |  (415) 543 6771 
Att 11 – Public Comments

--- page 190 ---
March 10, 2020

Mayor Joe Goethals

And Honorable Members of the San Mateo City Council
City of San Mateo

330 West 20th Avenue

San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Support - Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites

Dear Mayor Goethals and Members of the San Mateo City Council,

On behalf of the Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County (HLC), I am
writing to express our support for the Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites
proposal. We work with communities and their leaders to produce and preserve
quality affordable homes. This Midpen proposal is a great opportunity to provide 225
quality, affordable homes for the City of San Mateo and it’s workers.

We are excited to see the rare opportunity from the original proposal to provide an
additional 61 affordable homes as well as deeper levels of affordability. It’s proximity
to Caltrain and downtown San Mateo helps make it highly equitable by allowing low
income individuals and families to be well connected with their community, as well as
providing easy access to public transportation to work on the peninsula. This proposal
also would help the workers of San Mateo by addressing the city’s jobs-housing
mismatch. By approving this proposal, the City Council will take one step closer to an
equitable, inclusive and sustainable future for San Mateo.

Thank you for your leadership in bringing this proposal forward. We request that you
approve Midpen’s Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites without delay.

Sincerely,
Alex Melendrez, Organizer

Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403 + (650) 242-1764 + hicsmc.org


--- page 191 ---
From:
Kalisha Webster
To:
Phillip Brennan; mollie.naber@midpen-housing.org
Cc:
Jan Stokley
Subject:
PA19-033 City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites
Date:
Tuesday, April 07, 2020 1:07:27 PM
Hello Phillip and Mollie,
My name is Kalisha Webster and I am a housing coordinator with Housing Choices serving
clients in San Mateo County with developmental disabilities. I attended your neighborhood
community meeting for this project on February 24, 2020 and was hoping to get an update on
the status of your project.
During the meeting I know it was stated there were plans for a Planning Commission Study
Session on April 28 but in light of recent changes to the Planning Commissions schedule,
since the COVID 19 shelter in place orders forced them to move to online only meetings, I
wanted to confirm that this project will still be part of the April 28 Planning Commision
Meeting. 
Housing Choices is very interested in this upcoming project as there is a significant shortage
of affordable housing available in San Mateo County. This issue is especially relevant to our
clients most of whom live on fixed incomes well below the poverty level for San Mateo
County. Deeply affordable housing is their only option for living independently as many are
unable to work or have jobs which do not provide nearly enough income for them to thrive in
the communities which they grew up in. We have worked on projects in Santa Clara County
and the Monterey Bay Region to provide preference for our clients when affordable housing
developments are being planned and believe this project could be a great opportunity for our
clients. The vast majority of our clients do not own cars or are unable to drive themselves,
making your proximity to public transportation ideal. It was also mentioned during the
neighborhood community meeting that one of your ideas to combat issues of traffic and
limited residential parking was a no car preference. Most of our clients will easily meet this
requirement. 
Please let me know how Housing Choices can stay involved in the planning process of this
project and what opportunities may be coming up for us to discuss our interest in obtaining
preference for people with developmental disabilities.
Thank you for taking the time to consider our request.
Best Regards,
This e-mail message is intended only for the named recipient(s) above and is covered by the Electronic
Communications Privacy Act 18 U.S.C. Section 2510-2521. This e-mail is confidential and may contain
information that is privileged or exempt from disclosure under applicable law. If you have received this
message in error please immediately notify the sender by return e-mail and delete this e-mail message
from your computer.

--- page 192 ---
From:
San Mateo United Homeowners Association
To:
Alex Rogala
Subject:
480 E. 4th Ave & 400 e. 5th Avenue Affordable Housing
Date:
Monday, February 24, 2020 10:02:34 PM
Alex:
I found the meeting this evening informative and wish you and MidPen
good fortune in developing this important project.
I have a few questions:
1. Who is doing the traffic study and will it now cover the increased
number of units in the proposed building?  I suggest it assume a 1:1 ratio
of units to cars in order to allow for the possibility.
2. The same should apply to a parking study. Please confirm there is one
intended.
Items 1& 2 are a major concern for the residents int he area and in the
City. These concerns can be addressed by a careful review of the impact. 
3. The project drawings at this stage do not show the buildings that are in
the immediate area, nor the ones that are planned.  I suspect the average
citizen will struggle to understand how the design presented fits with the
areas existing buildings.  It would be great if a set of drawings with the
proposed nearby buildings shown as well as the most likely grade
separation structure and any existing buildings that are not already noted
for demolition and replacement. They idea is to show how the project will
enhance the area.  Too many people at the meeting did not believe this
design achieved that goal. Can you provide more graphics to answer that?
4. Why are there so many studio apartments?
5. If a family states a no car preference and then buys a car, what
happens?
Thanks in advance for your help.
Regards,
Mike Nash
President
San Mateo United Homeowners Association

--- page 193 ---
From:
To:
Planning
Subject:
SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain
Date:
Sunday, April 12, 2020 10:47:16 PM
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,
I hope this email finds you and your colleagues well. It is a hectic time we are living in and I 
want to applaud all of you for maintaining to nurture our community.
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 
E. 5th Avenue. Our city is in need of affordability, especially during this time. This proposal 
maximizes the potential of the land by providing homes close to transit. With the amount of 
people being affected by COVID-19 and becoming unemployed, San Mateo is in dire need 
of low-incoming housing. In order to help our country, state, and city, we should proceed 
with building the homes not only on 4th & 5th Avenue, but any other areas in our 
community that are available.
The more homes we can build, the more diversity we’ll have. It will furnish our beautiful 
society. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure housing is 
healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at this site 
in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown San 
Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Every one of these 225 affordable homes 
will provide secure shelter to people in need of secure housing.
Thank you for your time and continued leadership towards affordable housing in San 
Mateo.
Respectfully, 
Bryanna Ventura
San Mateo Resident

--- page 194 ---
From:
lXl
To:
Planning
Subject:
SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain
Date:
Friday, April 10, 2020 10:37:18 PM
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 
E. 5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, 
especially our most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the 
land by providing as many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-
income individuals and families also reduces the need for additional parking.
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off 
we’ll be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, 
secure housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable 
homes at this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with 
Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one 
of these 225 deeply affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need.
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San 
Mateo.
Respectfully yours,
Chia-Chun Liu, San Mateo Resident

--- page 195 ---
From:
Ronnie
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
Proposed development to seven stories
Date:
Saturday, February 15, 2020 1:28:43 PM
Good afternoon,
I have received this notice and wonder how this development can exceed the current Measure
P height limit of five stories: 
480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th Avenue / 034-183-060 and 033-281-140
Please clarify this for me.
Thank you,
Ronnie K. Eaton
Sunnybrae resident

--- page 196 ---
From:
Planning
To:
Phillip Brennan
Cc:
Rendell Bustos
Subject:
FW: building
Date:
Friday, February 07, 2020 10:35:02 AM
Phillip, is this your project? If so, please see public comment below.
-Wendy
From: Rick Bonilla 
Sent: Thursday, February 6, 2020 8:13 PM
To: Pat Devincenzi <gildevo@att.net>
Cc: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>; cityclerk@cityofsanmateo.com
Subject: Re: building
Dear Ms. Devincenzi,
Thank you for sharing your thoughts on the proposed change. At the City Council Study Session last
Monday evening the Council asked staff to research and conduct more public outreach. It was my
understanding that there will be at least 3 more opportunities for public comments on this
proposal. 
Thanks,
Rick Bonilla 
From: Pat Devincenzi <gildevo@att.net>
Sent: Wednesday, February 5, 2020 1:21:16 PM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: building
I am  against raising the building from five stories to seven stories. It will impact our single story houses. 
The 61 units that are being built without parking will push the parking on to our streets that our impacted
already. Looking at the plans of the structure is  close to the building on Delaware. That building has no
added appeal to San Mateo.  I would hope the council would take some extra time and consider a
building that could add to the beautification of this city.  
Patricia Devincenzi
815 S0. Eldorado St
San Mateo,CA

--- page 197 ---
From: John Lovell

To: Phillip Brennan

Cc: Wifey Wife; mollie.naber@midpen-housing.org

Subject: Neighbor Support for PA-2019-033 / Downtown Affordable Housing Sites
Date: Wednesday, February 19, 2020 8:32:02 PM

Dear Mr. Brennan,

As neighbors who live directly across the Caltrain tracks from the site of the proposed
Downtown Affordable Housing Development, my wife and I would like to express our
enthusiastic support for this project. In particular we are pleased to learn that the developer has
decided to add two additional stories to the building. I have attached a photo of the site as it
appears from the window of our living room. On a clear day we can see Mount Diablo across
the Bay. This view will probably be lost once this project gets built. However, the
opportunities that this project will offer to families in need are far more important than the
view from our window. It also represents an opportunity for the City of San Mateo to help
realize at least 4 of the 5 values expressed in the Strive 2040 General Plan Vision Statement:
Diversity, Balance, Inclusivity, & Prosperity. Our Downtown would be even more vibrant if
more parking lots and single story buildings were developed into denser housing like this. We
hope this is a harbinger of more things to come.

Sincerely,

John and Dana Lovell



--- page 198 ---
From:
Kohar Kojayan
To:
Phillip Brennan
Cc:
Rodrigo Orduna; Kathy Kleinbaum
Subject:
FW: Item #3 - Amendment of Municipal Code for AB 1763
Date:
Tuesday, March 24, 2020 12:47:37 PM
Attachments:
pastedGraphic.png
FYI – please be prepared to respond to these questions/issues that are being raised. 
 
From: l watanuki 
 
Sent: Tuesday, March 24, 2020 12:31 PM
To: Planning Commission <PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Michael Weinhauer 
; Maurine Killough 
Benjamin Portusach 
Subject: Item #3 - Amendment of Municipal Code for AB 1763
 
 
 
Central Neighborhood Association
712 East 4th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94401
 
March 24, 2020
 
Dear Members of the Planning Commission, 
 
These are our concerns with amending the Municipal Code to modify specified development standards for
exempt 100% affordable housing projects located near public transit and subject to AB 1763.
 
Please take these points into consideration before amending the zoning code for AB 1763 for this project. 
 
1.         Unlimited Density with AB 1763:
This bill entitles a 100% affordable project unlimited density,
 
Mid-Pen is proposing 225 units on 1.16 A (4th Avenue Parcel) which is extremely high density on a very
small footprint.  This is almost 200 units per acre compared to 68 units per acre with a 5 story project with
normal density bonus.
 
There can be 6 people living legally in a small 3 bedroom apartment (2 people per bedroom) within 1,144
sf.  These bedrooms in Mid Pen and AB 1763 are too small for these many adults.   If you count the number
of people and the number of bedrooms, there will be close to 800 (792) people living in 225 units.  This
does not count a baby living with a couple in a 624 sf 1 bedroom apartment.  AB 1763 does not set a good
precedent for a healthy living environment.  This project is being rushed with no attention to the adverse
impacts of over-crowding which brings more safety issues in a project.
 
2.         Reduced on-site private open space:

--- page 199 ---
With AB 1763, the City’s private open space requirement can be reduced by 50% while the density is
quadrupled.   Projects of this size need more on-site open space if this project is targeting families with
children. 
3.         More Parking Impacts:
How does AB 1763 analyze the number of parking spaces in this development?  Is it by the number of
bedrooms or by the number of units?   Both options were mentioned in AB 1763 according to Phillip
Brennan, Associate Planner.   Many couples and families own 2 cars.  We have a family with teenagers in
the Central Neighborhood that owns 5 cars and they all park on the street.  This project has added 2 extra
stories without additional parking.  The report states that 459 parking spaces are needed in this project.  
How was this calculation made?  164 parking spaces is not adequate for 225 units and this kind of density. 
This residential parking will overflow to our residential streets.
 
The original 5 story project would be a better fit. 
 
4.         Design Issues and Aesthetics:
 
We have not seen a drawing of these 2 structures side by side on one page.  This massive project is difficult
to visualize since we have not seen the elevations next to one story homes and buildings.  The 2 photos
(housing & garage) we were shown in isolation of the surroundings.   One picture of the housing shows the
building at a different angle to project a reduced size.  This project lacks detailed comparisons between a 5
story and a 7 story project.  There is an effort to push this project through with less attention to the details.
 
The Mid-Pen Housing and Garage does not blend well into the surrounding residential neighborhood and
historic Downtown.  This project resembles East German industrial architecture. The residential building
needs more brick material similar to Windy Hill to soften the look and integrate better into the
surroundings.  We would prefer a green wall design vs. the aluminum elements on the garage.  The extreme
high density promoted by AB 1763, overrides the protection and preservation design guidelines in the
Multi-Family Design Guidelines.  AB 1763 does not serve as a good precedent for future projects in the
Downtown and the architects are not listening to the residents from other neighborhoods. 
 
The pedestrian bridge is not attractive and unnecessary.  It is not practical for the elderly, the handicapped
and the mothers with children who have to go from the garage to an elevator to the pedestrian bridge to
another elevator to the floor of the living unit.  Then take the elevator back to the pedestrian bridge and an
elevator to the level where the car is parked.  This project needs to be less dense with larger units with more
residential parking.  Many couples and families have 2 cars.  Please review the survey that Mid-Pen
Housing gave to the prospective tenants.
5.         The confusing development of a 5 story project turning into a 7 story project has not been a
transparent process for our neighborhood. 
 
This project originally started as a 5 story project and in mid-stream changed to a 7 story project. The
original goal was to address the “missing middle” and now the project has shifted to 80 Section 8 units to
reduce the $8 million deficit with tax credits to a $3 million deficit.  AB 1763 is being used to over-ride 4
building standards to build more affordable units, over-riding street wall plane, less private open space, less
compact parking spaces, and more building line and set-back flexibility. 
 
Is this legal to go back and retrofit a project once the project has started?  This idea of amending the zoning
code after the fact to add two more stories with 61 units and no additional parking places the burden on one
neighborhood.  This process has been very confusing and has lacked  transparency.  
 
It may be easier to secure financing with a smaller project since the economy is heading towards an
economic downturn with the unexpected Coronavirus pandemic.  It is better to have a back-up plan with the

--- page 200 ---
original smaller less expensive project. 
 
We need an EIR with all the studies for 5 stories and 7 stories to reduce the negative impacts that AB 1763
brings.  We do not support amending the zoning code to retrofit Mid-Pen Housing and Garage into an
expanded project during these uncertain economic times.  
 
Best,
 
Michael Weinhauer
Maurine Killough
Ben Portusach
Laurie Watanuki
Central Neighborhood Association Board

--- page 201 ---
From:
Joan Diskin
To:
Phillip Brennan
Cc:
Mary Way; Kohar Kojayan
Subject:
FW: UPDATE: 4/20/20, City Council Meeting - Downtown Affordable Housing Project
Date:
Friday, April 17, 2020 1:38:03 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
image003.png
Hi All,
The email received by Kevin Skelly (below) should be made part of the public comment for the item
for when it next is heard, which will be by the Planning Commission and not City Council. Please be
sure to include it with your material for when the item is prepared for the commission meeting.
 
Thanks much.
 
 
Joan Diskin
Deputy City Clerk
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7044 | jdiskin@cityofsanmateo.org
 
From: Joan Diskin 
From: Mary Way <mway@cityofsanmateo.org>
Sent: Friday, April 17, 2020 9:32:42 AM
To: Kohar Kojayan <kkojayan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Phillip Brennan
<pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: FW: UPDATE: 4/20/20, City Council Meeting - Downtown Affordable Housing Project
 
Hi Kohar & Phillip,
 
A response to the email for your information.
Mary
 
From: Kevin Skelly <
 
Sent: Friday, April 17, 2020 9:17 AM
To: Mary Way <mway@cityofsanmateo.org>; Drew Corbett <dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Re: UPDATE: 4/20/20, City Council Meeting - Downtown Affordable Housing Project
 
Hi Mary:
 
Just so you are clear, the SMUHSD is almost always supportive of more housing and we stand ready
to help in that regard if that help is ever needed.
 
Take care.
 
KS

--- page 202 ---
Kevin Skelly, Ph.D.
Superintendent
San Mateo Union High School District
650 N. Delaware Street, San Mateo, CA 94401
p: 650-558-2201
w: www.smuhsd.org e: 
 
 Stay connected with SMUHSD on: Facebook | Twitter | LinkedIn
 
 
 
On Fri, Apr 17, 2020 at 9:10 AM Mary Way <mway@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
Hello:
 
Please be informed on April 20, 2020, City Manager, Drew Corbett, will present before the City
Council project funding and timelines associated with the City-Owned Downtown Affordable
Housing and Parking Garage Sites project (PA-2019-033). The meeting agenda can be found here
www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings. Information and updates regarding the aforementioned
project can be found on the What’s Happening in Development page. Please note, you are
receiving this email as a result of your expressed interest or proximity to the project site. 
 
Additionally, the introduction of the AB 1763 ordinance will be rescheduled in order for staff to
conduct further analysis of the ordinance’s potential environmental impacts in accordance with
the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Planning Commission will consider the
proposed ordinance and CEQA analysis at a future meeting and make a recommendation to the
City Council.  Future Planning Commission and City Council agendas for this item can be accessed
at https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4229/PA20-020-Code-Amendment---Reduced-Develo
 
Providing Public Comment During Meeting
After 4:00 pm submit agenda item comments online using Speak Up San Mateo eComment 
Find the agenda item(s) you’d like to comment on and complete the survey form. NOTE:
Please review the time limits for public comment when writing out your comment.
eComment will remain open until the Mayor closes the Public Comment period for that
item.
The City Clerk will read into the record all comments received through Speak Up San Mateo
which will be made part of the permanent official record.
Watching Meeting Live
 
City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or
AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other
broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8:00 am - 5:00 pm

--- page 203 ---
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is
intended only for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain
information that is confidential and prohibited from disclosure. If you are not the intended
recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message or any
attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the
original sender immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with
any attachments from your computer. Thank you.

--- page 204 ---
From: John Lovell

To: Phillip Brennan

Cc: Wifey Wife; mollie.naber@midpen-housing.org

Subject: Neighbor Support for PA-2019-033 / Downtown Affordable Housing Sites
Date: Wednesday, February 19, 2020 8:32:02 PM

Dear Mr. Brennan,

As neighbors who live directly across the Caltrain tracks from the site of the proposed
Downtown Affordable Housing Development, my wife and I would like to express our
enthusiastic support for this project. In particular we are pleased to learn that the developer has
decided to add two additional stories to the building. I have attached a photo of the site as it
appears from the window of our living room. On a clear day we can see Mount Diablo across
the Bay. This view will probably be lost once this project gets built. However, the
opportunities that this project will offer to families in need are far more important than the
view from our window. It also represents an opportunity for the City of San Mateo to help
realize at least 4 of the 5 values expressed in the Strive 2040 General Plan Vision Statement:
Diversity, Balance, Inclusivity, & Prosperity. Our Downtown would be even more vibrant if
more parking lots and single story buildings were developed into denser housing like this. We
hope this is a harbinger of more things to come.

Sincerely,

John and Dana Lovell



--- page 205 ---
From:
Kaitlin Chang
To:
Planning
Subject:
SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain
Date:
Tuesday, April 14, 2020 9:59:19 AM
Attachments:
image001.png
image002.png
image003.png
image004.png
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400
E. 5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone,
especially our most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the
land by providing as many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-
income individuals and families also reduces the need for additional parking.
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off
we’ll be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency,
secure housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable
homes at this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with
Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one
of these 225 deeply affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need.
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San
Mateo.
Respectfully yours,
Kaitlin Chang, San Mateo Resident
Best,
Kaitlin Chang
Housing Development Specialist
Pronouns: She/Her/Hers
O: 650-652-0800 x 102
www.corasupport.org
Click here for information regarding the impact of COVID-19 on CORA services.
CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This transmission, and any attachments thereto, may contain legally privileged and/or confidential
information.   If you are not the intended recipient, or the person responsible for delivery to the intended recipient, you are
hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution, dissemination, or use of any of the information contained in this
transmission, including attachments thereto, is strictly prohibited. If you have received this transmission in error, please notify
us immediately by e-mail and permanently delete the original copy and any printout thereof. Thank you.

--- page 206 ---
From: Planning

To: Phillip Brennan

Cc: Rendell Bustos

Subject: FW: building

Date: Friday, February 07, 2020 10:35:02 AM

Phillip, is this your project? If so, please see public comment below.

-Wendy

From: Rick Bonilla

Sent: Thursday, February 6, 2020 8:13 PM

To: Pat Devincenzi iy

Cc: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>; cityclerk@cityofsanmateo.com
Subject: Re: building

Dear Ms. Devincenzi,

Thank you for sharing your thoughts on the proposed change. At the City Council Study Session last
Monday evening the Council asked staff to research and conduct more public outreach. It was my
understanding that there will be at least 3 more opportunities for public comments on this
proposal.

Thanks,
Rick Bonilla

From: Pat Devincenzi

Sent: Wednesday, February 5, 2020 1:21:16 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil @cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: building

lam against raising the building from five stories to seven stories. It will impact our single story houses.
The 61 units that are being built without parking will push the parking on to our streets that our impacted
already. Looking at the plans of the structure is close to the building on Delaware. That building has no
added appeal to San Mateo. | would hope the council would take some extra time and consider a
building that could add to the beautification of this city.

Patricia Devincenzi


--- page 207 ---
From: Pat Devincenzi

To: mollienaber@midpen-housing.org; Phillip Brennan
Subject: 480 E 4th ave and 400 E 5th ave.
Date: Monday, February 24, 2020 3:01:08 PM

| cannot attend the meeting tonight, concerning 4th and 5th ave buildings. | am totally against the seven
story building it will make that area totally over built with the neighborhood single family homes. | have
seen the project they are building ,what concerns me the one on Delaware they built is the ugliest project
the planning commission let go through. Build something that would beautify San Mateo.

Patricia Devincenzi



--- page 208 ---
From:
Kohar Kojayan
To:
Phillip Brennan; Charity Wagner
Subject:
FW: Agenda Item 14 Downtown Opportunities site
Date:
Monday, April 20, 2020 2:10:07 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
image003.png
FYI – Public Comment re: Downtown Opportunity Sites.
 
From: Clerk 
Sent: Monday, April 20, 2020 10:10 AM
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Kathy Kleinbaum
<kkleinbaum@cityofsanmateo.org>; Kohar Kojayan <kkojayan@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: FW: Agenda Item 14 Downtown Opportunities site
 
 
 
Patrice M. Olds, MMC
City Clerk  
City of San Mateo
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7040 | polds@cityofsanmateo.org
 
In compliance with the San Mateo County Health Officer’s mandatory Shelter in Place order, the City
of San Mateo will only be providing essential services including public safety, wastewater treatment,
and critical infrastructure maintenance.  We have closed City facilities to the public including libraries,
community centers, and City Hall. Staff in non-essential functions will be working remotely to the
extent possible, so please expect some delay in responses. Questions about the coronavirus or the
Health Order should be directed to the County’s 2-1-1 call center. For questions about City services,
please call the City’s main line at (650) 522-7000 or visit www.cityofsanmateo.org.
 
From: Bob Whitehair 
 
Sent: Sunday, April 19, 2020 9:08 PM
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Agenda Item 14 Downtown Opportunities site
 
Mayor Goethals and Members of the Council
At Monday night’s meeting, I urge the City Council NOT to delay the 7-story, 225 unit
development, Downtown Opportunities Site.  I urge you to immediately move forward. 
Many of us in San Mateo and on the Peninsula have been working hard over the many
months to assure that this all electric project will have available the highest quality, most
cost effective electrical infrastructure. – boilers, air conditioning, electric vehicle charging
systems, stoves, and other electric appliances - from which to choose. 
 We understand that Peninsula Clean Energy will soon be providing a 24 million dollar fund
to assist multi-family property builders create viable EV charging and possibly other
alternatives. We support efforts for Mid-Pen and the City to be among the first to apply for
that funding.
 This is a complicated project, and some have argued that it should be delayed, given

--- page 209 ---
economic uncertainty and the parallel difference in how the public is able to make
comments. 
 Regarding our ability to be able to comment, the City’s efforts are extraordinary, and
comments continue to come in from all of San Mateo, just as they did in the past.  The
public meeting portal is vibrant and robust, perhaps even more so than “normal”   
Funding of this project will be complex and difficult.  I believe the City is up to the task.
 
Please move forward
 
Thank you
 
Robert Whitehair

--- page 210 ---
From:
Tania Peña
To:
Planning
Subject:
SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain
Date:
Friday, April 10, 2020 6:58:42 PM
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 
E. 5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone,
especially our most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the
land by providing as many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. It is serving low-
income individuals and families also reduces the need for additional parking.
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off 
we’ll be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, 
secure housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a higher) number of affordable 
homes at this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with 
Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites” on time. Everyone one of these 
225 genuinely affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need.
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San 
Mateo.
Respectfully yours,
Tania E Pena, San Mateo Resident

--- page 211 ---
From:
Veronica S. Brown, MPH
To:
Planning
Subject:
SUPPORT: 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Cal train
Date:
Friday, April 10, 2020 4:24:24 PM
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 
E. 5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone,
especially our most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the
land by providing as many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-
income individuals and families also reduces the need for additional parking.
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off 
we’ll be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, 
secure housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable 
homes at this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with 
Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one 
of these 225 deeply affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need.
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San 
Mateo.
Respectfully yours,
Veronica S. Brown, San Mateo Resident
-- 
"We did not come to fear the future; We came to shape it." 
President Barack Obama

--- page 212 ---
PROPOSED 
REQ. PER CODE
COMPLIANT
Floor Area Ratio (FAR)
4.28 FAR
3.00 FAR
No
Maximum Bulk
Exceed bulk req.
Bldg. width ≤ 150' and     
≤ 170' diagonally
No
Res. Parking on Separate Site 
off-site
on-site
No
Street Wall Plane
Not provided
Required
No
Compact Parking Stalls
66%
40%
No
Open Space
21,323 sq. ft. 
27,000 sq. ft.
No
Bldg. Line & Setback
Varied
0'
No
Lot Coverage 66% (multi-family bldg.)
88% (garage)
100% max.
Yes
Bicycle Parking
20 short-term
268 long-term
20 short-term
268 long-term
Yes
Density
93.36 units/per acre
50 units/per acre
N/A
Bldg. Height
74'-5"
50'
N/A
Required Residential Parking 
164 spaces 
N/A
N/A
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT STANDARD COMPLIANCE
Concession provided via proposed code amendment
Concession provided via proposed code amendment
Concession provided via proposed code amendment
Concession provided by AB 1763
DEVIATION FROM CODE REQ. RESOLVED BY:
Concession provided by AB 1763
Concession provided via proposed code amendment
Unlimited density provided by-right via AB 1763
Additional height (up to 3 stories or up to 33') provided by-right via AB 1763
Per State Density Bonus Law, a city cannot impose a parking ratio greater 
than 0.5/per unit (225 units x 0.5 = 113 spaces).
Concession provided by AB 1763

--- page 213 ---
From: diana pettit 
  
Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 5:31 PM 
To: Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Kohar Kojayan <kkojayan@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Christina Horrisberger <chorrisberger@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: PA19-033 City Owned Downtown Affortable Housing and Parking Application 
 
The City Owned Downtown Affortable Housing and Parking Application is an important and much 
needed in City of San Mateo. 
It will assist our city employees,safety officers,and teachers with low cost rental property. The Seniors 
and families needing low income housing will have an affordable homes. 
Across the street from this complex, a Municipal Garage will have 532 parking spaces for the Downtown 
Store Employees and customers and an additional parking of 164 spaces for the residence living at 480 
E. 4th Avenue. This garage will be accessible to the residence by going to the 5th floor walking across the 
bridge and  taking an elevator to the floor that their vehicle is parked. 
 
As I  been attending the meetings about this project for the last 6 months, and now with the Cornivirus-
19 affecting the lives of the people living in the City of San Mateo, it made me think about the Social 
Distancing requirement from all of our lives. 
 
Unfortunately, the project from The Mid-Peninsula Housing Corporation is an extremely large building 
with little room for Social Distancing while walking on 4th Avenue. The westside wall of the housing 
project will be a car length from 6 foot brick wall. This is to give shelter from the Caltrain Electrification 
System. 
 
The housing problem in San Mateo is really not an easy one to resolve now, but after looking at other 
locations I feel there are other solutions.  
 
In the General Plan of the City of San Mateo 2030 states: 
   " City of San Mateo is expected to           continue to develop and grow through  
  the year 2030. The majority of new development will consist primarily of infill,reuse, or 
redevelopment.  
 
Using the Land Use and Zoning Plan map by The San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-oriented Development 
Plan(June 6,2005)and the Land Use regulations of the General Plan 2030, the property of 1954-1980 
Pacfic Blvd is designated as a Transit Oriented Development. The property lines is against 286-19th 
Avenue. 
 
Currently, the Public Works Maintenance Yard is operating there.  The Police vehicles of the City are 
serviced at this location. The location has a sidewalk, and is about 20 feet from the train fence. It is 1/2 
mile from Hayward Park Train station. 
The location would give families with children 4 different elementary schools in walking distance. This 
property is approximately 2.5 acres. 
 
Futuristically, in a couple years the Concours  Project will be built with more affortable shopping and a 
transit center. 
 
In the General Plan of City of San Mateo 2030, the Concorse Project nor the Station Green Park located 
at 1700 South Delaware Steet are not in plans

--- page 214 ---
Thank you for letting me use the Goals and Policies 1h from the General Plan of City of San Mateo 2030. 
It has let me participate as a city resident to review community development. 
 
Respectfully Submitted. 
 
 
Diana Pettit

--- page 215 ---
From: Judy Taylor 
  
Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 10:41 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites comments for Planning Commission 
 
Dear Commissioners, 
I am a 45 year resident of San Mateo County and a Realtor and SAMCAR member.  I have watched with 
horror as our communities have said no over and over to very worthy projects.  The MidPen project is a 
worthy and needed project.  Please work with MidPen to address any concerns but please approve it 
and in quick order.   
 
Judy Taylor 
 
 
 
The economy is a wholly owned subsidiary of the environment, not the other way around.  
Gaylord Nelson

--- page 216 ---
From: Ken A red 
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 11:35 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown San Mateo affordable housing 
 
Dear Planning Commission members, 
 
I ask that you strongly support the MidPen project for 225 affordable units in downtown. 
We have a housing crisis on the Peninsula, that is due to the housing/jobs imbalance. This situation, of 
very high housing costs, has made it practically impossible for many vitally needed workers to live on the 
Peninsula. This includes such jobs as teachers, nurses, retail workers and childcare/eldercare workers. 
These people now must commute over the bridge and spend hours commuting. This negatively impacts 
their family life, health and the environment. This is very negative for them, our community and the 
environment. 
The project is perfectly located near downtown, the train station and other amenities. 
Please move forward in a timely manner on this project for all 225 units for low and very low income 
residents. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Ken Abreu  
36 year San Mateo resident  
 
Sent from my iPad

--- page 217 ---
From: Dharma Brandon <
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 4:07 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject:  
 
Dear Planning Commission, 
 
 I am an employee who works within the City of San Mateo.  I support the Downtown 
Opportunity Sites project and ask that it include some apartments for people with developmental 
disabilities.  Inclusion of people with developmental disabilities will reduce the project’s parking 
and traffic impact and will address an unmet priority of the City’s Housing Element.  Please 
make your approval of this project subject to Mid-Pen Housing’s agreement to make 20 of the 
apartments subject to a preference for people with developmental disabilities.   
 
Thank you, 
Matthew Brandon 
PARCA Counselor

--- page 218 ---
Dear Planning Commission, 
 
I work directly with individuals with disabilities who live and work in San Mateo County. It is critical that 
the development include housing fo this population. I known first hand how my clients thrive and 
contribute back to the community many times over when given basic support. As we all know the 
amount being charged for rents has reflected economic opportunism rather than a long term view of 
what serves all of us. It is through your work that healthy capitalism meets a healthy conscience. 
 
Please recognize this si a necessity. 
 
Thank you. 
Best, 
 Matthrew Brandon

--- page 219 ---
From:
Planning
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
FW: housing for developmentaly disabled
Date:
Friday, April 24, 2020 1:31:48 PM
 
From: Kathryn Breaux 
 
Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 1:31 PM
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: housing for developmentaly disabled
 
Dear Members of the Planning Commission:
 
 
Dear Planning Commission: 
On behalf of Gatepath, I support the Downtown Opportunity Sites
project and recommend that it include some apartments for people with
developmental disabilities.
 I have been involved with this organization for over twenty years and
have watched financial aid for our participants dwindle as the cost of
living,  and housing in particular,  has become prohibitive for them.
Many are working and contributing members of our community.
  Please make units available for those in need who can’t speak for
themselves.
Thank you.
Best,
Kathryn Breaux

--- page 220 ---


--- page 221 ---
From: Veronica S. Brown, MPH 
>  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 12:24 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: : SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at 
this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown 
San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one of these 225 deeply 
affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
Ms. Veronica S. Brown 
San Mateo Resident

--- page 222 ---
From:
Planning
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
FW: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain
Date:
Friday, April 24, 2020 1:32:28 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
image008.png
image009.png
image010.png
image011.png
image012.png
image013.png
 
 
Wendy Lao, AICP
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7219 | wlao@cityofsanmateo.org
  
 
 
 
 
From: Joyce Cabrera 
 
Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 12:11 PM
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400
E. 5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone,
especially our most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the
land by providing as many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-
income individuals and families also reduces the need for additional parking.
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off
we’ll be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency,
secure housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable
homes at this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with
Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one
of these 225 deeply affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need.
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San
Mateo.
 
Respectfully yours,
 
Joyce Cabrera
she/her/hers
FRC Coordinator
Gatepath’s Family Resource Center

--- page 223 ---
Mobile: (650) 906-0896
1764 Marco Polo Way,
Burlingame, CA 94010
Email: J
www.smcfrc.org
www.smcfrc.org/Joyce-Cabrera
 
 
Accept. Respect. Include.

--- page 224 ---
From:
Planning
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
FW: Disability Inclusion in Housing Plan / Mid-Pen
Date:
Friday, April 24, 2020 1:31:09 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
image008.png
image009.png
image010.png
image011.png
image012.png
image013.png
 
 
Wendy Lao, AICP
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7219 | wlao@cityofsanmateo.org
  
 
 
 
 
From: LCarpenter 
 
Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 1:14 PM
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Disability Inclusion in Housing Plan / Mid-Pen
 
Sally Carpenter...
  
Dear Planning Commission: 
I support the Downtown
Opportunity Sites project and
recommend that it include

--- page 225 ---
some apartments for people
with developmental
disabilities.
I have seen my sister struggle
with finding housing for her
adult son with disabilities.
We need equitable distribution
of affordable housing - we
cannot leave people out on the
street or with aging and ill
parents, waiting for parents to
die and then putting their

--- page 226 ---
children into emergency
housing.  This is inhumane and
a terrible system.
Inclusion of people with
developmental disabilities will
reduce the project’s parking
and traffic impact and will
address an unmet priority of
the City’s Housing Element.  
 
Please make your approval of
this project subject to Mid-Pen

--- page 227 ---
Housing’s agreement to make
20 of the apartments subject
to a preference for people with
developmental disabilities. 
Thank you for your work, 
Sally Carpenter

--- page 228 ---
Dear Members of the Planning Commission, 
 
These are the examples of the architecture in our Central Neighborhood in Group 1 and other pictures 
of higher quality handsome residential projects in Group 2. 
 
We were interested in higher quality designs and the use of orange brick and stone for a more 
traditional appeal and smoother transition to our single family bungalow neighborhood and the historic 
Downtown.  
 
Thank you for your consideration.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
Central Neighborhood Association 
 
 
 
 
Begin forwarded message: 
 
From: l watanuki <
 
Subject: Mid Pen Residential and Parking Project - Architectural examples you requested 
- Sorry resending again due to e-mail glitch 
Date: July 7, 2018 at 7:00:31 PM PDT 
To: Felix AuYeung 
, David Israel <
 
Cc: Bradley Sugarman <
, April Mo 
, 
Michael Weinhauer <
 Laurie Watanuki <
, 
Benjamin Portusach 
, Todd Lanam 
, Shelly 
Weinhauer 
 
 
Dear Felix and David, 
 
We wanted to thank MidPen and Bar Architects for meeting with us on May 22nd. 
 
We are sending you some architectural examples for the MidPen Project in our neighborhood.  
 
The first group of photos are the Craftsman and Mediterranean bungalows in our Central 
Neighborhood.   
 
The second group of photos are examples of handsome residential projects which use color, material 
and form.  These examples would give a nod to our historical homes and our Downtown. 
 
As we mentioned, we are interested in high quality designs, materials, and articulation.  The use of 
bricks and stonework adds warmth with traditional appeal.   
 
You asked about the points that drew us to the other Raintree proposal:

--- page 229 ---
Their past projects looked very upscale, incorporated high quality interior/exterior materials, and they 
were a good fit in the existing community.  
 
We would like the MidPen residential development to blend into our bungalow neighborhood so there 
is a smooth transition to our Historic Downtown.  
 
We would like to have our traffic calming installed in our neighborhood before your project breaks 
ground since we have a history of very high accident numbers and heavy cut-through traffic.  We need 
to address both issues.  
 
We submitted our plans to the City for traffic calming and pedestrian mid-block lighting over 20 years 
ago, and we have been waiting to fund these Sustainable Streets projects.   
 
We are a 501-C-3 and we are looking for creative solutions to kick-start our neighborhood plans to 
reduce the traffic impacts.   
 
Thank you for listening to our concerns for neighborhood preservation and pedestrian safety. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Michael Weinhauer - President 
Laurie Watanuki - Advisor 
Todd Lanam  
Ben Portusach 
Shelly Weinhauer 
Central Neighborhood Association Board 
 
 
Group 1

--- page 230 ---
t_ Bees.
URE ees
ba



--- page 231 ---


--- page 232 ---
Group 2


--- page 233 ---


--- page 234 ---


--- page 235 ---


--- page 236 ---


--- page 237 ---
Central Neighborhood Association 
April 28, 2020
Dear Members of the Planning Commission,
It is a more difﬁcult to comment on this Mid Pen project during the shelter in place restrictions and this 
virtual meeting process. 
We are disadvantaged because these drawings are very small for viewing on a laptop computer 
screen and residents can’t view the larger plans and material boards in person due to City Hall being 
closed. 
The MidPen building design and the public garage design need more reﬁnement. They do not blend 
into surrounding areas or transition well from Windy Hill to MidPen to our smaller scaled single family 
neighborhood. 
We sent in pictures of our single family bungalows and examples of softening the architecture. 
There are no examples of side by side drawings of the 7 story building impacts on nearby 1 and 2 
story buildings. 
Large shadows are cast on 8 of 9 views from the 7 story height of residential building and this needs 
to be addressed. 
There are no examples of side by side east and west pictures of these two buildings (housing and 
garage) next to each other.
Extend the Sycamore trees down 5th Avenue to Railroad Avenue and match the trees on 4th Avenue 
with the Windy Hill project to continue the pedestrian experience. 
More private on-site open space with balconies and more public open space would beneﬁt the 
residents in this extreme high density on Parcel 1. 
The sidewalks can be widened to provide safer pedestrian experience along 4th and 5th Avenues. 
The very original 5 story MidPen project and the current design at 55 ft are much better designs and 
should be considered as an alternatives to the current design.  There seems to be resistance on the 
part of MidPen Housing to improve the current designs.  More articulation is needed in the facades to 
reduce the mass and bulk.  
We would like to see a beautiful and high quality project, and we do fully support affordable housing. 
Best,
Michael Weinhauer
Maurine Killough
Ben Portusach
Laurie Watanuki
Central Neighborhood Association Board Members

--- page 238 ---
From: Esther Conrad 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 10:24 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Support for affordable housing near transit in San Mateo 
 
Dear Planning Commissioners, 
 
I'm writing to express my support for the revised proposal by MidPen Housing for the 100% affordable housing 
development at 480 E. 4th Ave and 400 E. 5th Ave in San Mateo. The greatest need of our community - especially 
now in the midst of the COVID-19 crisis - is for affordable housing. We need to do as much as we can to open up 
opportunities for more of our neighbors to be able to stay in the community. This location is also close to transit, 
thereby minimizing car trips while also helping our community thrive. 
 
I was very glad to learn of the revised proposal that provides for even more affordable units than did the previous 
plan. I support the current (or an even greater) number of affordable homes at this site in San Mateo, and urge 
you to move forward with this project as expeditiously as possible. 
 
Thank you for your dedication to serving our community, especially in this difficult time.  
 
Sincerely, 
Esther Conrad

--- page 239 ---
From: Kathleen Cook <
  
Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 10:16 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown opportunity sites project 
 
Dear Planning Commission, 
On behalf of Gatepath Auxiliary, I support the Downtown Opportunity Sites project and recommend that 
it include some apartments for people with developmental disabilities.  
 
The Gatepath Auxiliary is an organization of volunteers that support Gatepath. Gatepath is a non profit 
that deals with children and adults with learning and developmental disabilities.  
 
Inclusion of people with developmental disabilities will reduce the project’s parking and traffic impact 
and will address an unmet priority of the City’s Housing Element.  Please make your approval of this 
project subject to Mid-Pen Housing’s agreement to make 20 of the apartments subject to a preference 
for people with developmental disabilities. 
 
Thank You for your consideration, 
Kathleen Cook 
Gatepath Auxiliary Member 
 
Sent from my iPad

--- page 240 ---
From: John Daly 
  
Sent: Wednesday, April 22, 2020 4:50 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Support Downtown Opportunity Sites Project 
 
"Dear Planning Commission:  I am a resident of the City of San Mateo.  I support the Downtown 
Opportunity Sites project and ask that it include some apartments for people with developmental 
disabilities.  Inclusion of people with developmental disabilities will reduce the project’s parking 
and traffic impact and will address an unmet priority of the City’s Housing Element.  Please 
make your approval of this project subject to Mid-Pen Housing’s agreement to make 20 of the 
apartments subject to a preference for people with developmental disabilities.”  We have a 33 
year old high functioning autistic adult son, who will need this housing because we are in our 
late 60's. This housing is essential for our son, as well as, the other developmentally disabled 
adult children who parents are also growing old and dying. Please consider the inclusion of DD 
for this project. Thank you. Mary and John Daly

--- page 241 ---
From: Felipe De la cruz M 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 2:06 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at 
this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown 
San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Every one of these 225 deeply affordable 
homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
Respectfully yours, 
Felipe De La Cruz Morales , San Mateo Resident

--- page 242 ---
From: Terry Driscoll 
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 12:09 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites  
 
Dear Planning Commission:  
 
I am writing on behalf of my disabled daughter who is a resident  
of the City of San Mateo.  I support the Downtown Opportunity Sites project and ask that 
it include some apartments for people with developmental disabilities.  Inclusion of 
people with developmental disabilities will reduce the project’s parking and traffic impact 
and will address an unmet priority of the City’s Housing Element.  Please make your 
approval of this project subject to Mid-Pen Housing’s agreement to make 20 of the 
apartments subject to a preference for people with developmental disabilities.” You can 
also add personal comments about how this project impacts you or your loved one with 
a developmental disability 
 
Sincerely 
Theresa Driscoll  
Concerned Parent of a disabled adult child.

--- page 243 ---
From: Mike Dunham 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 2:26 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Please Support the 225 Affordable Homes in Downtown SM 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commissioners, 
 
I am writing to urge you to support the 100% affordable housing project at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo. When I learned the news that the new law AB 1763 allowed an even larger 
number of units on the site, I was excited, since affordable housing is such an urgent need on the 
Peninsula. 
 
It seems that some community members are urging the Planning Commission to reject these new plans 
or otherwise seek a "compromise" to scale the project back down towards its prior iteration -- an 
iteration that many of those same community members opposed in that form as well.  
 
I urge you to weigh whatever concerns a vocal minority of the community may have about the project 
against the critical need for affordable homes. Is eliminating a story or two of building height worth 30 
or 60 low-to-middle-income San Mateo families being forced out of our region? Is building an extra 20 
parking spaces worth sacrificing a stable home for 5, 10, or 20 families? 
 
I think you'll find that when weighing such tradeoffs, the moral import of creating housing security for 
the maximum number of San Mateo families far outweighs any other concerns. 
 
As planning experts, I suspect you are also aware that adding excess parking to residential projects 
"induces demand" for car ownership. So for community members who worry about parking and traffic 
challenges in that part of downtown, you may need to explain to them how consenting to their 
demands for more parking will actually make those problems worse, not better. 
 
Thank you for your careful attention to this project and your leadership in tackling the desperate 
housing shortage on the Peninsula. 
 
Best, 
Mike Dunham

--- page 244 ---
From: David Erwin Personal 
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 3:01 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Be inclusive - I support the Downtown Opportunity Sites project 
 
 “Dear Planning Commission:  I am a resident of the City of San Mateo.  I support the Downtown 
Opportunity Sites project and ask that it include some apartments for people with developmental 
disabilities.  Inclusion of people with developmental disabilities will reduce the project’s parking 
and traffic impact and will address an unmet priority of the City’s Housing Element.  Please 
make your approval of this project subject to Mid-Pen Housing’s agreement to make 20 of the 
apartments subject to a preference for people with developmental disabilities.” You can also add 
personal comments about how this project impacts you or your loved one with a developmental 
disability. 
 
Best regards,  
David Erwin

--- page 245 ---
From: Sarah E. Fields <
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 1:36 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown Affordable Housing Project - SUPPORT 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable housing project located at 480 E. 4th 
Avenue and 400 E. 5th Avenue in San Mateo, near the Caltrain station. As a resident of San 
Mateo and a renter, myself I know personally the importance of having a stable home. This 
proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as many affordable homes, close to 
transit, as possible. This project will serve individuals and families in our community in need, 
while also preserving the environment by locating these units near jobs and transit and reducing 
the need for parking.  
 
As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure housing is directly tied to 
public health. I support the current number of affordable homes at this site in San Mateo 
and encourage more projects like it. I respectfully ask you to move forward with 
MidPen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Every one of 
these 225 deeply affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully, 
Sarah Fields  
94402 
19th Avenue Park Resident

--- page 246 ---
From: Rose Garcia 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 8:00 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Support 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at 
this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown 
San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Every one of these 225 deeply affordable 
homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
Respectfully yours, 
Rose Pauette- San Mateo Resident

--- page 247 ---
From: Isaac Gendler 
>  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 8:00 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public comment regarding topic #3 planning commission meeting 
 
Dear City of San Mateo, 
 
I would like to send in a comment on topic #3 of the planning commission meeting tonight. Attached are 
my thoughts regarding the proposed affordable housing project at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th 
Avenue. If you have any questions feel free to reach out. 
 
Thank you, 
Isaac  
 
 
--  
Isaac A. Gendler 
Independent Resilience + Energy Consultant 
 
 
__________________________________________

--- page 248 ---
To the City and Community of San Mateo,  
 
My name is Isaac Gendler. I am a Housing-Climate Resilience Researcher whose work 
is focused on the San Francisco Bay Area. It has recently come to my attention that Downtown 
San Mateo may soon be a host to a 100% affordable unit project at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 
E. 5th Avenue. The geographical positioning of the venture would simultaneously make the city 
a more just, equitable, and climate-resilient place to live for all. 
 
According to Zillow, the median home value in San Mateo is $1,467,184 and the median 
rent is $3,357. Given that the minimum wage of the city is $15.38, the cost of living is simply out 
of reach for many people who would be potential upstanding residents. If the proposed project is 
constructed according to its current specifications, it will contain 225 units of 100% affordable 
housing, half of which are designated as low and extremely-low income units. This will allow 
workers and their families of all backgrounds​ ​to enjoy the full benefits of living in the city. A city 
with ample greenery, clean air, and the most comfortable weather in the world. 
 
Not only would this project provide a phenomenal quality of life and a plethora of 
economic opportunities for these potential residents, but also insulate them from the effects of 
climate change. If constructed, this project would provide dense transit-oriented housing in a 
location that would be safe from the ill effects of sea-level rise. In fact, even the most dire 
climate models predict that by the year 2100 the site will not be negatively impacted. It would 
also be a secure distance from the wildland-urban interface, ensuring that residents would be 
spared from wildfires. The units will be constructed to the most current building codes 
guaranteeing a safe indoor environment to counteract a hazardous outdoor environment, such 
as wildfire smoke or a global pandemic.  
 
It is understandable that some residents are concerned and hesitant about these 
changes. The height of the buildings is above the average San Mateo home, and the 
architecture may be seen as unfamiliar. However, at this moment we must consider what San 
Mateo could lose if this project is downsized or even terminated. The city would lose residents 
to other towns that will most likely not have access to the same level of provided services. They 
may be forced to super commute over an hour to work, leading to great financial, psychological, 
and physiological stress.  If San Mateo strives to be a champion of equity and environmental 
management, this project would be a pragmatic and forward-thinking avenue to pursue. 
 
I endorse this project for the economic and environmental benefits it will bring to both the 
current and future community of San Mateo. Maps of the project’s positioning against sea-level 
rise and wildfires can be seen below. 
 
Thank you for your time. 
 
Sincerely,

--- page 249 ---
200 cm sea-level rise map of San Mateo. The location of the project can be seen on the yellow 
pointer. Mapping courtesy of Our Coast, Our Future (​link​).

--- page 250 ---
Wildland-Urban Interface map of San Mateo. The location of the project can be seen on the 
black dot. Mapping courtesy of Los Padres ForestWatch (​link​).

--- page 251 ---
From: Karen Grove <
  
Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 9:43 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations; and solo car driving affects the entire planet.  Right now we are 
confronting the reality of a global pandemic and the imperative that every individual contribute to 
mitigation; let’s double down to mitigate the impacts of global climate change while we can. 
 
The 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th Avenue proposal maximizes the potential of the land by 
providing as many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income 
individuals and families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. The more homes near transit, the more we will reduce our carbon footprint. 
As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure housing is healthcare. I 
support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at this site in San Mateo. I 
respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity 
Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one of these 225 deeply affordable homes will provide 
secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
Karen Grove 
Pronouns: she/her/hers

--- page 252 ---
From: A H <
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 2:41 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: In support of housing for people with developmental disabilities  
 
My family is in support because we have two kids with special needs and it’s important that they have a 
stable environment plus affordable living situation so that their progress in life overall is not disruptive 
and stressful. Thank you for your time. The Battles family.  George Hall family.

--- page 253 ---
From: Auros Harman 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 1:34 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo CalTrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I was a renter in San Mateo for six years, from 2011 to 2017, and am now a homeowner and landlord 
(renting two rooms to friends) near CalTrain in San Bruno.  I still visit San Mateo regularly, to shop at the 
Whole Foods at Park Place, or to patronize restaurants and other businesses. 
 
Having rented in the Bay Area for twenty years, and watched rents rise from "ridiculous" to "utterly 
mind-boggling", I support efforts to build MUCH more rental housing, especially in places that will allow 
people to commute without driving.  The affordability crisis is especially hard on vulnerable populations 
-- seniors, working-poor adults, young people trying to establish a career in the midst of an economic 
crisis -- but it affects all of us.  Everyone who works here has to either pay nosebleed housing prices, or 
commute in from three hours away (which is expensive both in terms of gas dollars, and the toll those 
long commutes take on mental health).  Taxes have to be higher because our teachers, police, and so 
on, are all subject to housing costs.  Employees of restaurants, hair salons, and all other private 
businesses face the same costs, so either they get paid more or it doesn't make sense to work here; so 
costs get passed through to customers.  People up and down the income ladder need to be able to live 
together for our economy to work. 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E 4th Ave and 400 E 5th Ave in San 
Mateo, near CalTrain. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as many affordable 
homes, close to transit, as possible. Because it serves low-income individuals and families who will be 
more inclined to use the ready access to transit, rather than bearing the cost of gas, insurance, and 
maintenance on a car, it also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we build, the better off we’ll be as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-
19 health emergency, secure housing is healthcare.  Families can't shelter in place if they don't have a 
place to shelter.  I support the current number of affordable homes at this site in San Mateo, or a 
greater number if that's possible.  I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s "Downtown San 
Mateo Opportunity Sites" in a timely manner.  Every one of these 225 affordable homes will provide 
secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage on the issue of affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
Auros Harman 
past San Mateo renter 
current San Bruno homeowner

--- page 254 ---
From: Danielle Harvey 
  
Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 9:23 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public comment in support of affordable housing in San Mateo 
 
Hello, 
 
I live in San Mateo and I am very much in favor of the proposed building of affordable housing in 
downtown San Mateo (480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th Avenue). The housing crisis is 
my top concern as a resident of this region, and I do plan to move from the area in the next five years if 
apartment prices continue to rise.  
 
Furthermore, we need more housing for lower income families. This area should not become a rich 
person’s playground like San Francisco. The change in culture that that would cause would be much 
greater than any cultural change as a result of a tall building. And as this current health crisis has shown 
us, we as a society are only as strong as the most vulnerable among us. 
 
Thank you for your time! 
Danielle Harvey

--- page 255 ---
-----Original Message----- 
From: Katherine Hill <
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 3:49 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Planning Department San Mateo 
 
Hello, 
 
Please include my vote for the rights of those with disabilities to be represented in the new planning of 
housing. My family lives in San Mateo and would like to see a certain amount of spaces for those in need 
that can live on their own with disabilities to have a chance at living In society without an extra struggle. 
They already have many obstacles and it would be nice to see them get an opportunity in getting a place 
on their own.  
Thank you!  
 
Katherine H.

--- page 256 ---
From: Jan Stokley 
  
Sent: Thursday, April 23, 2020 10:05 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Nevada Merriman <
>; Alex Rogala 
 Kalisha Webster 
 
Subject: Letter of Support for Downtown Opportunity Sites 
 
Dear Chair and Planning Commission, 
Enclosed please find Housing Choices' letter of support for the affordable housing planned at the 
Downtown Opportunity Sites.   
Our letter includes specific information on how this project can address an unmet need identified in the 
City's Housing Element and affirmatively further fair housing for the City's residents with intellectual and 
developmental disabilities who have mostly been closed out of the city's rental housing market. 
Thank you so much.

--- page 257 ---
Housing
Choices

April 23, 2020

Planning Commission of the City of San Mateo via email to planning@cityofsanmateo.org
30 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403

Re: Downtown Opportunity Sites

Dear Chair and members of the Planning Commission:

Housing Choices is a nonprofit organization dedicated to creating affordable housing for people with
intellectual and developmental disabilities who require the coordinated services provided by California’s
Regional Centers to live successfully in community-based affordable housing. We have partnered with
developers to include people with developmental disabilities successfully in 18 multi-family housing
properties in multiple cities across Silicon Valley, and eight more inclusive housing properties are in
construction, planning and development. The housing support services we provide at each property
enable residents with intellectual and developmental disabilities to maintain stable housing and remain
in the cities where they grew up and have existing networks of support.

Currently, 973 City of San Mateo residents are served by the Golden Gate Regional Center, of whom
599 (62%) are adults. Among the City’s adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities, only 51
(9%) are able to live in their own apartment with Independent Living or Supported Living services.
Because of the City’s high cost of housing, many adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities
remain in the home of aging parents well past the time they would otherwise transition to independent
living with supportive services coordinated and funded by the Golden Gate Regional Center.

The City’s 2015 Housing Element assesses the housing need of its residents with intellectual and
developmental disabilities as required by the State’s Housing Element statute. But, since the Housing
Element’s adoption, the City of San Mateo has not entitled any affordable housing properties with some
apartments subject to a preference for adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities who
require the coordinated services of Golden Gate Regional Center to live inclusively in affordable housing.
The City has assessed the need, and now is the time to deliver on solutions.

The Downtown Opportunity Sites is particularly appropriate for inclusion of people with intellectual and
developmental disabilities for several reasons:


--- page 258 ---
® Because adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities rarely have a drivers’ license or
own a car, they would particularly benefit from being included in this transit-oriented project.

e Their inclusion would reduce the project's overall parking and traffic impact, which we can
substantiate by well-documented traffic studies of our other inclusive housing properties.

e The location enhances opportunities for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities
to participate in the rich community life of downtown San Mateo.

e The award of 80 Project-Based Vouchers to the project allows for the apartments to be
affordable to the adults we serve, most of whom have income below 30% of Area Median
Income.

We strongly support the 225 units of affordable housing proposed to be developed at the Downtown
Opportunity Sites. But the project would be so much stronger if it provided for the inclusion of people
with intellectual and developmental disabilities. We hope you will consider providing for 20 of the
project’s 225 apartments to be subject to a preference for extremely low-income people with
intellectual and developmental disabilities because this would impose no additional cost on the
developer Mid-Pen Housing, would reduce the project’s parking and traffic impact, and would enhance
the project’s overall benefit to the community.

Please contact me if | can provide any more information about the housing need of the City’s residents
with intellectual and developmental disabilities.

Sincerely,

(pe Stokley
e xecutive Director

Email

Direct

Cc: Nevada Merriman, Mid-Pen Housing, via email to nmerriman@midpen-housing.org


--- page 259 ---
From: cindy cornell 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 9:39 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown Opportunity Sites Project 
 
Please see the accompanying correspondence from Housing for All Burlingame. 
 
Thank you. 
 
Cynthia Cornell 
on behalf of 
HOUSING FOR ALL BURLINGAME 
(650) 430-2073 
 
 
 
HOUSING FOR ALL BURLINGAME 
 
 
April 26, 2020  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Via e-mail 
 
Planning Commission 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Dear Planning Commissioners: 
 
Housing for All Burlingame supports the Downtown Opportunity Sites project and recommends 
that it include 20 apartments for people with developmental disabilities. 
Our grassroots organization advocates for renter protections and affordable housing throughout 
the State of California, and particularly in San Mateo County. 
The inclusion of people with developmental disabilities is critical as they are too often at the 
bottom of the list when it comes to obtaining affordable housing. 
Please make your approval of this project subject to Mid-Pen Housing’s agreement to make 20 
of the apartments subject to a preference for people with developmental disabilities. 
 
Sincerely, 
s/ Cynthia Cornell

--- page 260 ---
Cynthia Cornell 
on behalf of 
HOUSING FOR ALL BURLINGAME

--- page 261 ---
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
On behalf of the Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County please see attached our letter of 
support for Midpen's Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites and the 225 affordable homes it will 
create.  
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment, 
 
Alex Melendrez 
 
--  
#HousingIsHealthcare 
 
Alexander Melendrez 
Organizer  
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County (HLC) 
2905 S El Camino Real 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
(650) 242-1764 ext. 4 Linkedin  
Pronouns: He, Him, His 
 
HLC: Website | Facebook | Twitter | LinkedIn | Instagram | Become A Member!

--- page 262 ---
April 27, 2020 
 
 
Chair Etheridge 
And Members of the San Mateo Planning Commission 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Re: Support - Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites 
 
Dear Chair Etheridge and Members of the San Mateo Planning Commission, 
On behalf of the ​Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County (HLC)​, I am 
writing to express our support for the ​Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites 
proposal​. ​We work with communities and their leaders to produce and preserve 
quality affordable homes. This Midpen proposal is a great opportunity to provide 225 
quality, affordable homes for the City of San Mateo and it’s workers. 
We are excited to see the rare opportunity from the original proposal to provide an 
additional 61 affordable homes as well as deeper levels of affordability. It’s proximity 
to Caltrain and downtown San Mateo helps make it highly equitable by allowing low 
income individuals and families to be well connected with their community, as well as 
providing easy access to public transportation to work on the peninsula. This proposal 
also would help the workers of San Mateo by addressing the city’s jobs-housing 
mismatch. By approving this proposal, the Planning Commission will take one step 
closer to an equitable, inclusive and sustainable future for San Mateo.  
Thank you for your leadership in bringing this proposal forward. We request that you 
approve Midpen’s Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites without delay. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Alex Melendrez, Organizer 
Housing Leadership Council of San Mateo County 
2905 S. El Camino Real, San Mateo, CA 94403  •  (650) 242-1764  •  hlcsmc.org

--- page 263 ---
From: Tea Teresa 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 12:36 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at 
this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown 
San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one of these 225 deeply 
affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
 
Teresa Hsu, San Mateo Resident

--- page 264 ---
From: Robert Huibers 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 10:39 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current or greater number of affordable homes at this site in 
San Mateo. I would ask you to support moving forward with Midpen's "Downtown San Mateo 
Opportunity Sites" in a timely manner. Every one of these 225 greatly needed affordable homes 
will provide secure shelter to people in need, who deserve decent, safe and an affordable home 
in the community they live or work.  
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
Robert S. Huibers 
San Mateo Business Owner 
 
 
--  
  
 
 
 
Robert S. Huibers 
Branch Manager / Sr. Mortgage Advisor

--- page 265 ---


--- page 266 ---
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% aﬀordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The aﬀordability crisis aﬀects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many aﬀordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better oﬀ we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of aﬀordable homes at this 
site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo 
Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one of these 225 deeply aﬀordable homes will 
provide secure shelter to people in need. 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around aﬀordable housing in San Mateo. 
Respectfully yours, 
Carolyn Jaramillo 
San Mateo County Resident

--- page 267 ---
From: Susan Ketcham 
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 2:43 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: I SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership around housing in this area. I am very supportive of 
more housing, at all levels of income,  and more density – as there is such a great need in this 
area. 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. It serves  low-income individuals and 
families  and also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. 
 
I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at this site in San Mateo. I 
respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity 
Sites” in a timely manner. Every one of these 225 deeply affordable homes will provide a 
home and shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
 
 
Susan Ketcham,  San Mateo Resident

--- page 268 ---
From: Paul Krupka <
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 2:02 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public Comments for Planning Commission 4/28/20 Agenda Item 3 > City-Owned Downtown 
Affordable Housing and Parking Garage Sites 
 
Dear Chair Etheridge and members of the Planning Commission.  
 
I wish you peace, good health and courage. 
 
I’m Paul Krupka, a proud resident of San Mateo for over 30 years. I live at 431 Yale Drive. 
 
I appreciate your devotion and service to the people of San Mateo, especially during this unprecedented 
life change we are experiencing.  
 
I wish to express my complete support for the City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking 
Garage Sites project by MidPen Housing. In my opinion, this project is a hallmark of the City’s future and 
requires our collective, sustained focus and action - all things considered.  
 
The following points summarize my thoughts about project attributes. 
• 
This project provides affordable housing, which is critical to the vitality of Downtown businesses 
and enhances opportunities for individuals and families, and helps further the vision 
of wholesome neighborhoods. I see and feel the tension of business vitality and shortage of 
employees caused by the absence of affordable homes. 
• 
This project adds 225 affordable homes, which will address the strategic goal to increase entry-
level homes. 
• 
This project adds 532 public parking stalls, which will improve parking availability for employees 
and patrons and help me find a parking space and reduce time searching. 
• 
Finally, the project conforms to pertinent goals and policies of the General Plan and the 
Downtown Area Plan, and would accomplish a major objective of the Downtown Parking 
Management Plan. 
Thank you and the community that is the great City of San Mateo. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Paul Krupka

--- page 269 ---
From: Robin Kutner 
  
Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 10:04 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public Comment for 480 E 4th Ave and 400 E 5th Ave 
 
Dear San Mateo planning commission, 
I work in at one of the largest employers in San Mateo County. I have countless colleagues who live in 
San Mateo proper, in Burlingame, South San Francisco, etc. I have countless more colleagues who live in 
Novato, Oakland, or Fremont and spend 3 hours a day commuting to our workplace who WISH they 
could live in San Mateo and near transit. 
 
I am writing to strongly support the approval of developments at 480 E 4th Ave and 400 E 5th Ave. They 
are 100% Affordable Housing, which will slow the tide of displacement and help house our essential 
workforce. They are located in amazing downtown, walkable, transit-accessible locations which will 
impose  positive change on the worsening traffic, climate change, and street safety problems in this 
area. 
 
Any effort to downsize or diminish this project is an effort to worsen our state's housing crisis, increase 
displacement, and lengthen commutes and VMTs. 
 
Please approve this project. 
 
Thank you, 
Robin Kutner

--- page 270 ---
From: Louise Levi 
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 3:31 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: PA-2019-033/City Owned Downtown Affordable Housing and Parking 
 
This project must, at the very least, be put on hold.  The city of San Mateo is in no position to make 
decisions in these precarious times by attempting to view the future through a rear-view mirror.   
- 
We are about to face vacancies in numbers rarely seen for both local businesses, and 
apartment units.  Numerous multiplex units are already reporting tenants leaving in large 
numbers.  We have a considerable amount of new construction units either unoccupied or 
in the process of being built.  This is a time to take a breath and see what the next year or 
two will bring.  By the time these proposed units are built, the going rental rate may be 
appreciably lower than predicted prior to the pre-COVID-19 pandemic.  The cost to build 
and maintain could easily far outpace the revenue from rentals.   
 
The concept for these units has been poorly thought out.  It fails to meet the need of the very people it 
purports to serve: 
- 
The location and design completely fail to properly accommodate the elderly, disabled and 
families with children.  In fact it is deleterious to their health and well-being.   
o Location:  The proximity to Caltrain creates several hazards:  the noise level and 
diesel pollution exceed all acceptable standards.  The proposed thicker walls and 
double pane windows do nothing to alleviate those serious violations – what 
happens when someone wants or needs to open a window, or walk outside while a 
train is spewing diesel emissions and the engineer is repeatedly blaring the horn? 
Why is it that those that may be underprivileged are made to live in such 
conditions.  Why are only those who are elderly or have disabilities, or families 
trying to eke out a living on minimum wage offered only unhealthy and faulty living 
conditions from their cities. Many of these very people work and contribute 
valuable services to their more advantaged neighbors who would never opt for such 
living conditions for themselves.   
 
o Design:   The 5 story garage and bridge make absolutely no sense for the intended 
users.  How does someone with a disability or the elderly who needs to drive, 
manage to walk to the garage elevator, then across a bridge to get to the apartment 
complex and ultimately walk even further to their unit. What if they have groceries, 
packages, etc.  Has anyone consulted with a disability specialist before coming up 
with this nonsensical plan?  No construction without underground parking with 
automatic access into a building should ever be allowed to be considered to have 
handicapped accessible parking. 
 
Thank you, 
Louise Levi

--- page 271 ---
From: Bob Levi <
  
Sent: Sunday, April 26, 2020 9:14 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: COMMENTS OPPOSING PA-2019-033 - City Owned Downtown Affordable Housing & Parking 
 
The proximity of the project to the train tracks is hazardous for the following reasons: 
  
1. The noise and diesel exhaust from the trains is detrimental to the health of all those living in 
these units. 
a. The sound levels from the horn of the southbound locomotive leaving the San Mateo 
station well exceeds 100dB(A), and is deafening throughout the downtown area.  Why is 
it that Atherton was able to solve this problem by simply installing double gates at 
crossing?  Why doesn’t San Mateo treat this as a critical health and safety issue for its 
residents and visitors. 
  
b. The diesel exhaust from the current locomotives is noxious and rains soot on the 
surrounding neighborhood.  I live at the Gramercy at 555 Laurel Ave., several blocks 
away from the train, and if a window or sliding door is open, diesel soot comes into our 
unit.  While the planned Caltrain electrification will eliminate the diesel exhaust, the 
current Covid-19 crisis will very likely delay the electrification project.  Despite Caltrain 
electrification diesel freight locomotives, that usually operate late at night or early in the 
morning, will still emit soot.   
  
c. Even when the electrification project is completed, Caltrain plans to operate more 
frequent trains to make up for the loss of capacity of the new smaller cars increasing the 
frequency of the deafening noise. 
  
2. During a recent open forum the Assistant City Manager stated that the noise issue for the living 
units facing the train tracks will be attenuated by thicker walls and acoustically insulated 
windows.  This should reduce noise when all the windows are kept sealed but this means that it 
will be prohibitive to open windows in these residential units.    
 
Robert Levi

--- page 272 ---
From: Jose Mendez <
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 9:40 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Affordable housing. 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
We support the 225 affordable homes at this site in San Mateo. We respectfully ask you to move 
forward in a timely manner. 
Everyone of these 225 deeply affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
As we are learning during the COVID-19 health Emergency secure housing is healthcare. 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Jose Mendez 
NAACP San Mateo Branch 
Housing Committee

--- page 273 ---
From: Renata Nordell <
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 2:46 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Dev Disabilities apartments 
 
Dear Planning Commission,  
I am a resident of the City of San Mateo.  I support the Downtown Opportunity Sites Project and ask that 
is include some apartments for people with developmental disabilities.  Inclusion of people with 
developmental disabilities will reduce the project’s parking and traffic impact and will address an unmet 
priority of the City’s Housing Element.  Please make your approval of this project subject to Mid-Pen 
Housing agreement to make 20 of the apartments subject to a preference for people with 
developmental disabilities.  My son who has Down syndrome is super engaged in our community and 
would love to live in a place such as this. 
Thank you, 
Renata Nordell 
 
Sent from my iPad

--- page 274 ---
From: Jackie Nunez 
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 3:32 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
Last Friday I volunteered with the Second Harvest Food Bank to distribute food at a center on 
25th Ave in San Mateo. Having run out of food at the second hour of a four-hour event, many 
households sharing one vehicle to get to the food site reinforced for me how much our 
community is struggling to make ends meet. Now more than ever, housing is a crucial part of 
ensuring the health and safety of our residents. 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. It's serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at 
this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown 
San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Every one of these 225 deeply affordable 
homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
Jackie Nuñez 
Resident of Mariners Island, San Mateo  
--  
Jacqueline Nuñez

--- page 275 ---
From: Sue Digre <
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 3:48 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Housing for 
 
Housing for residents that have developmental disabilities needs your leadership this evening . 
 
The Planning Commission needs to use specific " set aside " language, using the words "developmentally 
disabled" for this project and for all potential housing opportunities. 
 
 
Mid-Pen is skilled at providing housing for those who have a developmental disability. Yes there are 
other housing agencies with expertise as well. 
 
Leadership is what is needed  this evening on your part . 
 
Insist that Mid-Pen agree to set aside 20 apartments for those who have a developmental disability. 
 
Please be aware that there are numerous agencies already in place with funding to ensure that the 
future residents who have a developmental disability will be reliable residents,and positive members of 
the San Mateo City Community. 
 
What is needed is your understanding and leadership this evening 
 
Thank you very much. 
Sue Digre  
PARCA Family Support Services &Advocacy Department Director

--- page 276 ---
From: laura Peterhans <
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 11:17 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Strong Support for Affordable Housing Development 
 
Dear San Mateo City Planning Commissioners: 
I heartily support the proposal to develop 225 affordable units of affordable homes at the large site near 
Caltrain and Downtown. 
Such developments are sorely needed throughout the county.  
I applaud San Mateo for taking this step as an example for other cities.  Mid-Pensula Housing has shown 
its leadership previously with the similar developments including the large building of affordable 
apartments near Hillsdale Shopping Center. 
 
Thank you for your continuing leadership as a city. 
 
Sincerely yours,   Laura Peterhans, currently living in Belmont but formerly from 1969-2000 living in San 
Mateo..

--- page 277 ---
From: Sara Cottrell 
>  
Sent: Wednesday, April 22, 2020 11:20 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Jan Stokley 
> 
Subject: Letter of Support for Inclusive Housing at San Mateo's Downtown Opportunities Site 
 
Good Morning, 
Please find attached Project Sentinel’ Letter of Support for Inclusive Housing at San Mateo’s Downtown 
Opportunity Sites.  
 
Best, 
Sara Cottrell 
Executive Assistant-Office Manager

--- page 278 ---
1490 El Camino Real  Santa Clara, California 95050  408-720-9888  info@housing.org  www.housing.org 
  Project 
  Sentinel 
11/27/19 
Re: Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites 
Dear Planning Commission:  On behalf of Project Sentinel, I support the Downtown Opportunity 
Sites project and recommend that it include some apartments for people with developmental 
disabilities.  
Project Sentinel helps tenants, landlords and home owners to resolve their housing problems 
through educational programs on housing rights and responsibilities, counseling to review 
problem solving options and mediation for conflict resolution. Civil rights protection is provided 
through public education, complaint investigation and the securing of redress for victims of 
housing discrimination. Services are rendered to housing providers as well as to home seekers in 
a neutral, balanced manner unless evidence of a legal violation is secured at which point the 
agency assumes an advocacy role. Information transmitted in mediations is confidential and 
cannot and is not used in legal proceedings. Services are delivered primarily by phone but 
appointments can be made with the housing counselors and legal staff. 
Inclusion of people with developmental disabilities will reduce the project’s parking and traffic 
impact and will address an unmet priority of the City’s Housing Element.  Please make your 
approval of this project subject to Mid-Pen Housing’s agreement to make 20 of the apartments 
subject to a preference for people with developmental disabilities.  
Sincerely, 
Ann Marquart 
Executive Director

--- page 279 ---
From:
Planning
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
FW: Support of Midpen project
Date:
Friday, April 24, 2020 1:33:04 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
image008.png
image009.png
image010.png
image011.png
image012.png
image013.png
 
 
Wendy Lao, AICP
Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403
650-522-7219 | wlao@cityofsanmateo.org
  
 
 
 
 
From: St. James AME Zion Church 
 
Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 12:03 PM
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Support of Midpen project
 
April 24, 2020
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,
 
I am writing today in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and
400 E. 5th Avenue in San Mateo, near the Caltrain station. The affordability crisis
affects everyone, especially our most vulnerable populations. This proposal
maximizes the potential of the land by providing as many affordable homes, close to
transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and families also reduces
the need for additional parking.
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, and that
benefits the entire community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health
emergency, secure housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater)
number of affordable homes at this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to
move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a
timely manner. Everyone one of these 225 deeply affordable homes will provide
secure shelter to people in need.
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in
San Mateo.
 
Sincerely,
Rev. Marlyn Bussey

--- page 280 ---
Pastor, St. James AME Zion Church
San Mateo
 
--
Blessings,
Pastor Marlyn Bussey
“Never forget that justice is what love looks like in public.” Dr. Cornell West

--- page 281 ---
From: Stephanie Reyes <s
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 11:52 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at 
this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown 
San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Every one of these 225 deeply affordable 
homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Sincerely, 
Stephanie Reyes

--- page 282 ---
From: Valerie Rynne <
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 2:26 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites / Consideration of Mid-Pen Housing's Proposal 
 
Dear Planning Commission Members, 
 
I am writing as a long-time resident of San Mateo in support of MidPen Housing's proposed 
development of 225 deeply affordable homes at the Downtown Opportunity Sites located at 480 E 4th 
Avenue and 400 E Fifth Avenue in San Mateo, and, in doing so, urgently request that your approval of 
this project be conditioned on MidPen's agreement to make 20 of the most affordable apartments 
subject to a preference for people with developmental disabilities. This request aligns with the 
requirement in California that every city consider the needs of local residents with developmental 
disabilities in its Housing Element.  Stipulating that 20 of the most affordable apartments in this 
development shall be subject to a preference for people with developmental disabilities who need the 
coordinated services of the Regional Center would advance an important unmet priority of the Housing 
Element of the City of San Mateo and help a number of individuals who truly rely on your concern and 
action. 
 
On a personal note, as a the mother of an adult son with a developmental disability who knows many 
other such families, I have experienced directly how extraordinarily challenging it is for families to obtain 
safe, stable, and affordable housing locally for adult sons or daughters with a developmental disability, 
which provides the foundation for their ongoing participation in the life of the community in which they 
grew up as well as vital continuity of supportive relationships and services.  As parents of inidviduals 
with developmental disabilities advance in age, the need to facilitate and support the transition of their 
adult son or daughter from the parental home to a stable, well-supported living arrangement is 
extremely pressing. I implore you to understand that access to truly affordable, stable housing for our 
local special needs men and women depends on the opportunities you actively put into place and secure 
for them.  It is the recognition of your essential role and responsibility in this regard that in fact drove 
the formal requirement that their needs be considered in the Housing Element in the first place.  We are 
counting on you to address these needs in a tangible way.   
 
It is important to understand that the needs and living preferences of people with developmental 
disabilities are diverse and require an variety of options; this proposed development is one that is 
greatly needed. A particular benefit of the physical site of this development for some individuals with a 
developmental disability who do not own a car is the walkable access to downtown and ready 
availability of multiple alternative transit options. 
   
Given that developments succeed in supporting health and well-being only to the extent that properties 
are well-constructed, managed, and maintained, I was happy to learn that MidPeninsula is at the helm 
of this effort, as it  has deep roots in this area and high standards in the development and management 
of properties.  
 
Please advance this project expeditiouslly with a provision to prioritize 20 apartments at the 
highest level of affordability for our local residents with developmental disabilities. Your 
assessment of relative needs will define in a real way who is included in the mainstream of this 
community, which I hope can be vibrant, diverse, and mutually supportive.  Development to date 
has fallen short of the magnitude and urgency of the local need, as objections to proposals

--- page 283 ---
perpetuate the desperate struggles of numerous local residents and workers and impede 
responsive action on a needed level.  The 225 deeply affordable homes offer foundational 
security to many who are in greatest need of it.   
 
Many thanks for your ongoing work under challenging circumstances and continuing to develop 
multiple ways for residents to communicate with you in this process. 
 
Sincerely,  Valerie Rynne

--- page 284 ---
Sheraden Nicholau | Regional Manager, Bay Area 
State Council on Developmental Disabilities 
510-286-0439 Main Office Line 
510-286-1250 Direct Line 
bayarea@scdd.ca.gov   
www.scdd.ca.gov  
 
For plain language resources on COVID-19, go to our website at scdd.ca.gov 
 
Pronouns: she, her, hers

--- page 285 ---
“The Council advocates, promotes & implements policies and practices that achieve self-determination, independence, 
productivity & inclusion in all aspects of community life for Californians with developmental disabilities and their families." 
 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
Gavin Newsom, Governor 
 ● website ●    www.scdd.ca.gov 
       ● email ●    council@scdd.ca.gov 
          
3831 North Freeway Blvd., Suite 125 
Sacramento, CA 95834  
(916) 263-7919 
                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(916) 263-7963 fax 
 
 
State Council on Developmental Disabilities 
April 28, 2020 
 
 
City of San Mateo Planning Commission  
330 West 20th Ave. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
This letter expresses the CA State Council on Developmental Disabilities Bay Area Office’s support of 
the Downtown Opportunity Sites project, and support for the recommendation that this project 
include apartment units for people with developmental disabilities. MidPen Housing has been a 
reliable and dedicated community partner in bringing inclusive, welcoming communities to life, and 
we look forward to seeing the project at 480 E. 4th Avenue proceed with 20 of the project’s most 
affordable units for residents with developmental disabilities. 
 
The CA State Council on Developmental Disabilities supports systems change, capacity building, and 
quality of services within the community for individuals with developmental disabilities and their 
families. Survey results state that a majority of Californians with developmental and other disabilities 
seek to live in community housing. Instead, many remain in their family member’s home because of 
lack of affordable, accessible housing options. Statewide inclusive housing options for individuals with 
developmental disabilities must be increased and enhanced through access to housing and subsidies, 
including those that are paired with needed supports and services. Permanent, affordable, accessible 
and sustained housing options must be continually developed to meet both current and future needs.  
 
City of San Mateo is home to over 1,600 residents with developmental disabilities. We know that 
inclusion of people with developmental disabilities contributes to the community in many ways. This 
inclusion is also expected to reduce this project’s parking and traffic impact, and will address an 
unmet priority of the City’s Housing Element.   
 
The creation of affordable housing that includes people with developmental disabilities depends on 
the City of San Mateo’s leadership. This aligns with federal and state priorities, with California’s 
Housing Element plans, and the Council’s state plan goal to increase the availability of housing for 
people with developmental disabilities in community housing. 
 
Lack of affordable housing is the greatest single barrier to achieving the goal of independent living 
for people with developmental disabilities.

--- page 286 ---
Page 2 
 
 
 
 
The CA State Council on Developmental Disabilities Bay Area Office supports this project, and 
supports the recommendations that its most affordable units include those with developmental 
disabilities. 
 
I would be pleased to further discuss our support for this project anytime. 
 
 
Thank you for your service to the great City of San Mateo. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sheraden Nicholau 
Regional Manager, Bay Area 
CA State Council on Developmental Disabilities 
1515 Clay Street, Ste. 300 
Oakland, CA 94612 
Sheraden.nicholau@scdd.ca.gov 
510.286.1250

--- page 287 ---
From: Nancy Schneider 
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 12:11 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: I SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking.  Also, it’s location near downtown San 
Mateo reduces the need for additional parking.   
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at 
this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown 
San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Every one of these 225 deeply affordable 
homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
Nancy Schneider 
San Mateo Resident

--- page 288 ---
From: Nathalie Servin 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 12:50 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at 
this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown 
San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one of these 225 deeply 
affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully, 
Nathalie Servin, San Mateo Resident

--- page 289 ---
From: Jackie 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 5:45 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
<="" td=""> 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
I am writing in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th 
Avenue, San Mateo. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our most vulnerable 
populations. This proposal can provide many affordable homes, close to transit. Ideally, it 
will provide housing for local employees and their families who can walk or bike to work or 
school. The housing complex should also help support businesses in Downtown San Mateo. 
Secure housing is an important health factor for limited-income individuals and families. I 
support the 225  affordable homes at this site in San Mateo and encourage you to move 
forward with Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites.” Thank you for your 
continued housing leadership in San Mateo. 
Best wishes, 
Jackie Siminitus, San Mateo Resident

--- page 290 ---
From: S Sountru 
  
Sent: Wednesday, April 22, 2020 3:33 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Downtown Opportunity Sites 
 
Dear Planning Commission:  
  
On behalf of Pomeroy Recreation & Rehabilitation Center I support 
the Downtown Opportunity Sites project and recommend that it 
include some apartments for people with developmental disabilities.  
  
The mission of Pomeroy Recreation & Rehabilitation Center is to 
provide recreational, vocational and educational opportunities for 
people with disabilities through programs and services that 
encourage self-expression, promote personal achievement, and lead 
to greater independence. 
  
Inclusion of people with developmental disabilities will reduce the 
project’s parking and traffic impact and will address an unmet priority 
of the City’s Housing Element.  Please make your approval of this 
project subject to Mid-Pen Housing’s agreement to make 20 of the 
apartments subject to a preference for people with developmental 
disabilities.  
 
        Smiles, 
 
       Sountru

--- page 291 ---
From: Kathleen Sparer <
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 2:55 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at 
this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown 
San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Every one of these 225 deeply affordable 
homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
Kathleen Areias and 
Michael Sparer 
San Mateo Residents 
 
 
--  
 
KATHLEEN AREIAS SPARER

--- page 292 ---
From: Milo Trauss 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 12:50 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
Please approve this item. This proposal has already been downsized, and given the current 
state of affairs more units would be better for the community. 
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better off we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of affordable homes at 
this site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown 
San Mateo Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one of these 225 deeply 
affordable homes will provide secure shelter to people in need. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Respectfully yours, 
Milo Trauss 
 
 
 
Milo Trauss

--- page 293 ---
From: Dianne Whitaker 
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 4:06 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: City-Owned Downtown Affordable Housing & Parking Garage Sites - Item 3 
 
Chair Etheridge, Vice Chair Mallory and Planning Commissioners – 
 
The MidPen Housing and Parking Garage proposal presented at the April 23, 2019 Planning 
Commission study session was a good design.  I supported it as then Planning Commission 
Chair.  It was warm, fuzzy and exciting.  Now that the State has entered the conversation with 
AB1763, the design needs to be tweaked to become an exceptional design.  I feel the current 
design is cold, hard and uninviting.  However, I have confidence that MidPen Housing is up to 
the challenge, given their proven track record in San Mateo.  The alternate color scheme 
presented in your packets for tonight’s meeting, is a big step in the right direction. 
 
However, in order to justify approval of the current design, which is requesting 3 incentives (per 
State Density Bonus and Other Incentives Law) and 4 deviations (per AB1763) from the San 
Mateo Zoning Code, additional tweaks should be considered: 
 
1. Color Palette. In addition to the shade of green proposed in the alternate scheme, I 
suggest adding a second color, that is deeper and richer.  A color scheme of cream, 
beige and brown is very ho-hum. 
2. Materials. Current proposal is to use brick (actually brick veneer) at the entry and the 
ground floor.  Cost is an issue, therefor spend the money to use real brick/stone at the 
entry, and replace with another material at remainder of the ground floor. 
3. Neighborhood Context. The current 7-story design does not fit well in the 
neighborhood.  The city’s design consultant, Larry Cannon, has made many excellent 
suggestions in his April 1, 2020 letter; one of which is described on pages 14 -15 for how 
to remedy this by stopping the projections at the 55-foot height… 
4. Street Wall Plane deviation.  Incorporating Larry Cannon’s suggestions help to balance 
out this request to eliminate this requirement.  Be careful:  one of the three requested 
incentives is to also eliminate the Maximum Bulk requirement in the Zoning Code, which 
also works against reducing perceived mass. 
 
Thank you so much for your time serving on the Planning Commission.  The public really 
appreciates you. 
 
-Dianne 
 
Dianne R. Whitaker, AIA

--- page 294 ---
From: Bob Whitehair 
  
Sent: Monday, April 27, 2020 8:34 AM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Leora Tanjuatco Ross 
 
Subject: Support Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
We are writing to you in support of the 100% affordable Downtown San Mateo Opportunity Sites 
The affordability crisis affects everyone, especially our most vulnerable populations. This 
proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as many affordable homes close to 
transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and families also reduces the need for 
additional parking. And just as importantly, this is an environmentally responsible project, 
destined to be all electric. 
 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we will have, and the less 
carbon our homes use, the better off our community will be. 
 
I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo Opportunity 
Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one of these 225 deeply affordable homes will provide 
secure, safe shelter to people in need. I also respectfully request that the project take 
advantage of Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) grants for Electric Vehicle charging, and all other 
PCE grants and assistance for the electrification of this project. 
 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around affordable housing in San Mateo. 
 
Best wishes and stay safe 
 
Robert and Teri Whitehair 
San Mateo

--- page 295 ---
From: Jonah Williams 
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 1:19 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
As a North Central resident and homeowner I would like to voice my support for the100% 
affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain.I 
support the current or a greater number of affordable homes at this site and applaud the city for 
this use of city property to support vulnerable populations during this housing crisis. 
 
Thank you, 
Jonah Williams

--- page 296 ---
From:
Planning
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
FW: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain
Date:
Friday, April 24, 2020 1:31:32 PM
 
From: Nina 
 
Sent: Friday, April 24, 2020 1:13 PM
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: SUPPORT - 225 Affordable Homes near San Mateo Caltrain
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission,
 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% affordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400
E. 5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The affordability crisis affects everyone,
especially our most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the
land by providing as many affordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-
income individuals and families also reduces the need for additional parking.
 
 
I hope that San Mateo will serve as an example to Menlo Park, which has done a
terrible job of managing its housing planning. Please show that it can be done right!
 
Respectfully yours,
 
 
Nina G. Wouk

--- page 297 ---
From: Kolja Schluetter <
  
Sent: Saturday, April 25, 2020 7:43 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comment Development 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th Avenue 
 
Hello planning team,  
 
I wanted to send a quick comment for the proposed projects at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 5th 
Avenue. 
 
These projects should be an absolute no brainer. This is what San Mateo needs - since a long time. 
I have no doubt that the proposed development in their current form will be a massive net positive 
impact for San Mateo as a city and county. 
This is how every single multi family development of this size should look like in the county. 
 
People actively opposing this project should be questioned in their sanity. We need to put an end to 
artificially restricting denser and higher residential real estate developments and proactively embrace 
them. 
 
Please make this happen in its current form! 
 
Thanks & best, Kolja 
 
-- 
Kolja Schluetter 
Partner

--- page 298 ---
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
I am writing to you in support of the 100% aﬀordable homes at 480 E. 4th Avenue and 400 E. 
5th Avenue in San Mateo, near Caltrain. The aﬀordability crisis aﬀects everyone, especially our 
most vulnerable populations. This proposal maximizes the potential of the land by providing as 
many aﬀordable homes, close to transit, as possible. Its serving of low-income individuals and 
families also reduces the need for additional parking. 
The more homes we can build, the more neighbors and diversity we’ll have, the better oﬀ we’ll 
be, as a community. As we are learning during the COVID-19 health emergency, secure 
housing is healthcare. I support the current (or a greater) number of aﬀordable homes at this 
site in San Mateo. I respectfully ask you to move forward with Midpen’s “Downtown San Mateo 
Opportunity Sites” in a timely manner. Everyone one of these 225 deeply aﬀordable homes will 
provide secure shelter to people in need. 
Thank you for your continued leadership and courage around aﬀordable housing in San Mateo. 
Respectfully yours, 
Carolyn Jaramillo 
San Mateo County Resident

--- page 299 ---
From: CAROL WINDSOR 
  
Sent: Thursday, April 23, 2020 1:41 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Housing for the disabled 
 
Dear Council members, 
 
My name is Carol Windsor. Recently I attended one of your city council meetings where you honored 
Gatepath on our 100th birthday. I was impressed with your commitment to the disabled. Today I am 
writing to urge you to support the Downtown Opportunity Sites project and that some of the 
apartments be set aside for the developmentally disabled. 
Please make your approval of this project subject to the Mid-Peninsula Housing’s agreement to make 20 
of the apartments subject to a preference for people with developmental disabilities. It is next to 
impossible for these citizens to find housing! 
 
Thank you for considering this. 
 
Sincerely, 
Carol Windsor 
President of the Gatepath Auxiliary 
 
Sent from my iPad

--- page 300 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 20-2932
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Rendell Bustos, Acting Senior Planner and Lisa Costa Sanders, Project Planner
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
April 28, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Draft Supplemental EIR for Concar Passage Mixed Use Project (PA-2018-052)
RECOMMENDATION:
That the Planning Commission receive public comments on the Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Report (EIR).
BACKGROUND:
California Coastal Properties submitted a formal Planning Application on September 20, 2018 to redevelop the Concar 
Shopping Center with a mixed-use development called Passage at San Mateo. The project site is zoned TOD (Transit Oriented 
Development) and is located within the Hayward Park Station Overlay Zone of the Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development Plan.  Project entitlements include: Site Plan and Architectural Review; Site Development Planning Application; 
Vesting Tentative Map; and a Development Agreement.
Project Site and Description
The project site is located on Concar Drive, between South Grant Street and South Delaware Street.  The site is approximately 
14.5 acres and currently occupied by Concar Shopping Center, which includes Trader Joe’s, Peninsula Ballet Theatre, Ross 
Dress for Less, The Pantry, Rite-Aid, T.J. Maxx, Shane Co., and 7-Eleven. The project proposes to demolish the existing 
commercial buildings and construct 961 multi-family dwelling units and approximately 40,000 square feet of 
commercial/retail space. The project includes 73 affordable housing units, associated parking and 3 acres of community 
open space. Commercial uses include Trader Joe’s, Peninsula Ballet Theatre, 7-Eleven and a new SEED food hall, with other 
retail space and a daycare facility for approximately 70 children. 
The site is comprised of eight parcels (APNs 035-243-090, -140, -160, -170, -190, -200, -210, -220), located at 640, 666, 678, 
690 Concar Drive, 1820, 1850 S. Grant Street and 1855 S. Delaware Street, San Mateo.
An Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan was certified in 
2005 and an EIR for the City’s General Plan Update was certified in 2009. The CEQA consultant team completed an Initial 
Study checklist, and after consultation with staff, determined a Supplemental Environmental Impact Report, tiering off the 
previously adopted EIRs listed above, would be the appropriate analysis to complete for this project consistent with the 
California Environmental Quality Act Guidelines (CEQA).
A Notice of Preparation (NOP) of the subject project’s Supplemental EIR was prepared and circulated for 30-day public review 
from March 13, 2019 to April 12, 2019. The City held a scoping meeting for the Supplemental EIR on March 26, 2019 to 
receive comments directly pertaining to the proposed scope. The City prepared and distributed the Draft EIR for a 45-day 
public review and comment period, starting on March 26, 2020 and ending on May 11, 2020. The Draft EIR is included as 
Attachment 1. The purpose of this Planning Commission meeting is to receive public comments on the Draft EIR.  Comments 
will not be responded to at the meeting.  At close of the public review period, staff and the CEQA consultant team will work

--- page 301 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
on a response to all comments received, both at this meeting and provided in writing to the City. Public comments on the 
Draft EIR received to this date are included in Attachment 2. The City then prepares the Final EIR that will include the 
response to comments and any additional analysis or corrections to the Draft EIR.  The Final EIR will be scheduled for 
consideration by the Planning Commission and adoption by the City Council.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The purpose of an EIR is to evaluate and inform the public and decision makers of a project’s potential environmental 
impacts.  The EIR includes an analysis of the project’s potential impact on the environment, evaluation of the project under 
a cumulative analysis, review of project alternatives and preparation of a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program.
Project-Related Impacts
In summary, the Draft EIR found that the project would not result in any significant unavoidable environmental impacts.  It 
identified that the following CEQA sections would have a less than significant impact or no impact to the environment:
1.
Aesthetics: Less than Significant Impact
2.
Agriculture and Forestry Resources: No Impact
3.
Air Quality: Less than Significant Impact
4.
Energy: Less than Significant Impact
5.
Geology and Soils: Less than Significant Impact
6.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Less than Significant Impact
7.
Hazards and Hazardous Materials: Less than Significant Impact
8.
Land Use and Planning: Less than Significant Impact
9.
Mineral Resources: No Impact
10. Population and Housing: Less than Significant Impact
11. Recreation: Less than Significant Impact
12. Transportation: Less than Significant Impact
13. Tribal Cultural Resources: Less than Significant Impact
14. Utilities and Service Systems: Less than Significant Impact
15. Wildfire: No Impact
The Draft EIR did identify significant impacts resulting from the project, but these impacts would be reduced to a less than 
significant level through mitigations summarized below:
1.
Biological Resources: Construction activities, including grading and vegetation removal may impact nesting 
birds. Construction mitigation measures were identified which would reduce these impacts to less than 
significant. 
2.
Cultural Resources:  There is the potential to uncover unknown archaeological resources during the course of 
construction. Mitigation measures were identified if artifacts or remains are discovered to reduce these impacts 
to less than significant.
3.
Hydrology and Water Quality:  Grading and site work may encounter shallow groundwater during construction.  
Mitigation measures were identified to reduce this impact to less than significant.
4.
Noise: Noise will be generated from the construction of the development.  Construction mitigation measures 
were identified to minimize the noise impacts associated with the construction of the project.
5.
Public Services: The proposed project has the potential to increase student generation in the project area 
beyond the capacity of existing middle and high schools. The project is required to pay established school 
development impact fee to help finance expansion of existing schools, construction of new schools and/or rental 
of temporary classroom facilities. With the payment of required impact fees, this impact is reduced to less than 
significant.
Transportation Analysis
CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.3 (pursuant to SB 743), which go in effect on July 1, 2020, requires all agencies to evaluate 
projects utilizing a metric of vehicle miles traveled (VMT) rather than level of service (LOS) as part of the CEQA review.  The

--- page 302 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
guidelines further state that projects within one-half mile of an existing major transit stop are presumed to have a less than 
significant impact on VMT. Although the project could be screened out per CEQA Guidelines, the City elected to perform the 
VMT analysis.  The estimated VMT for the development is below the recommended threshold, and as such, the project does 
not result in a significant transportation impact.
Despite this finding, various trip reduction strategies are included in the project that were not included in the analysis which 
may further reduce transportation impacts. These strategies are listed in the project’s Transportation Demand Management 
(TDM) plan, which include a centrally-located mobility hub, subsidized transit passes, ride-hailing credits/discounts, and an 
on-site transportation coordinator. The Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) and TDM plan are included in Appendix I of the 
Draft EIR.
Cumulative Impacts
The Draft EIR evaluated the potential environmental impacts of the proposed project with all past, present and pending 
development projects in the area. The analysis concludes that the proposed project would not contribute to any significant 
cumulative impacts.
Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program
CEQA requires agencies adopt a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program (MMRP).  The program is designed to ensure 
the project’s compliance with the mitigation measures.  The Draft EIR identified sixteen (16) mitigation measures that would 
reduce the environmental impacts generated by the project to less than significant. An MMRP will be prepared for the 
project after the public review period to ensure that the mitigation measures adequately address comments from the 
regulatory agencies and public. The MMRP will be included with the Final EIR and compliance with the MMRP would be a 
condition of the project approval.
Project Alternatives
The Draft EIR evaluates the proposed project against four (4) alternatives, summarized below.  Of these, the adjusted mixed-
use alternative is the environmentally superior alternative as it would not result in new peak hours trips and partially fulfills 
the development objectives of the project.

No Project – No Development Alternative:  In this analysis, the evaluation assumes the continued use of the buildings 
on-site with some building and site upgrades and new tenants.

No Project – Existing Plan Redevelopment Alternative:  This analysis assumes the site is developed consistent with 
the Corridor Plan with a floor area of up to 2.0 of the site area or 1.2 million square feet.

Adjusted Mixed-Use Alternative: assumes a reduction of 50% in the number of housing units (480 residential units) 
on-site and an increase in commercial square footage (376,000 square feet).

Reduced Intensity Alternative:  Evaluates two projects; a 20% reduction in the number housing units (769 residential 
units) and a 30% reduction in the number housing units (673 residential units), both with similar commercial square 
footages.
NOTICE PROVIDED
In accordance with Government Code section 65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this
hearing was noticed to the following parties at least ten days in advance of the Planning Commission meeting:

Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the project site;

The City’s “900 List” which contains nearly 100 Homeowner Associations, Neighborhood Associations, local 
utilities, media, and other organizations interested in citywide planning projects;

The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list;

The interested parties list which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be added 
to the project notification list; and

All CEQA required agencies and partner agencies.
The City mailed Notice of Availability (NOA) of the Draft EIR and this hearing to all parties listed above.  The NOA was also

--- page 303 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
mailed and emailed the County of San Mateo Clerk’s Office for public posting. The comment period for the Draft EIR 
commenced March 26, 2020 and will conclude on May 11, 2020.  
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Environmental Impact Report Concar Passage Mixed-Use Project
Att 2 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Rendell Bustos, Acting Senior Planner rbustos@cityofsanmateo.org (650) 522-7211
Lisa Costa Sanders, Contract Planner lcostasanders@cityofsanmateo.org (650) 333-0248

--- page 304 ---
Att 1 
Draft Environmental Impact Report – Concar Passage Mixed-Use Project 
www.cityofsanmateo.org/PassageDEIR  
Att 1 -Draft Environmental Impact Report Concar Passage Mixed-Use Project

--- page 305 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Gita Dev 
Sent:
Thursday, April 9, 2020 8:06 AM
To:
Planning Commission; Concar Passage Mixed Use Project; 'Sierra Club Chair Trans Gladwyn d'Souza'; 
James Eggers
Subject:
Sierra Club Comment letter on Concar Passage Housing for April 28th Planning Comm. Meeting
Attachments:
Sierra Club comments Pl Comm 4-9-2020.pdf; Passages Guidelines Score final.pdf
Categories:
Public Comments
San Mateo Planning Commission, 
City of San Mateo, 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
Via email: PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org 
Attn: Lisa Costa Sanders, Contract Planner (Passage@cityofsanmateo.org) 
 Subject: Concar Passage Housing Development at San Mateo 
Thank you for providing the opportunity for the Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter Sustainable Land Use Committee (SLU) 
to comment on the proposed Concar Passage at San Mateo project.  
We understand that you will be addressing the Concar Passage at San Mateo Project at your April 28, 2020 meeting. 
We would like to provide comments on that project in the attached letter. 
Thank you. 
Respectfully submitted: 
Gita Dev, Co‐Chair 
Sustainable Land Use Committee 
Sierra Club Loma Prieta  
415‐722‐3355  
Att 2 – Public Comments

--- page 306 ---
SIERRA CLUB LOMA PRIETA CHAPTER GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL,
COMMERCIAL, AND MIXED-USE TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD)

eel Passage at San Mateo

To download: lomaprieta.sierraclub.org/sustain/guidelines

Executive Summary The Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter supports vibrant, dense, walkable communities focused around
transit to contain growth within the urban footprint and to reduce traffic. These communities, when
well-designed, are rich with services, more walkable, bikeable, and transit-accessible, limit urban
sprawl, reduce greenhouse gas and other emissions, and can provide a variety of housing types,
sizes, and affordability. Transportation accounts for over half of emissions in San Mateo & Santa
Clara County? and buildings account for an additional 39%?. Reducing transportation demand, and
constructing all-electric energy efficient buildings and/or retrofitting existing buildings to be all-
electric energy efficient to reduce burning of fossil fuels is the most significant opportunity to meet
California’s climate change goals.

The Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter uses these guidelines to make recommendations on
residential, commercial?, and mixed-use developments within % mile of major transit hubs and
along major transit corridors. We publish these Guidelines to make our evaluation process more
transparent for residents, decision-makers, planners, and developers, and to provide a model for
communities to meet State Law SB32 and $B375 climate change goals.

Developers that are planning developments within % mile radius around major transit stations (i.e.
Caltrain, BART, Bus Rapid Transit) and along transit corridors (i.e: El Camino Real) should focus on
the following six goals:

Six Goals of a Residential, Commercial, or Mixed-Use TOD Development
Compact Development
Public and Community Benefits
Pedestrian Priority
Transportation Alternatives
Energy and Resource Efficiency
Healthy Ecology for Residents’ Wellbeing

Overview of 1. At what stage is the development in the City review process? Early planning? Public Input?
Workshops? Staff review? Draft Plan? Draft EIR? Final EIR? Planning Commission review? City
Council review? Final Plan? Other? Please describe status and upcoming applicable review dates:
Completed a ere “Application paces! & mr carn nity z
Meetings and Planding Covemissvon wevtehy

Plan Status

2. What State Laws that could increase housing density could apply? State Density Bonus per

Government Code 65915 — 65918? SB 35 (Affordable Housing development by-right)? AB 2135
(Surplus Public Land Act)? Other? Please list:

yt, Boowe of 82.S le Se 10 he Very blew Lowe Gani 15
plus anther 26 medevate mone wuitslunEGwe nous) te é
3. Does the development fall under an umbrella CEQA review that will allow individual es or No

developments within a designated Plan Area to be built “as-of-right” if they meet the Plan’s zoning
and environmental requirements?

GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, OR MIXED-USE TOD DEVELOPMENTS, revised July 15, 2019
Page | 1 of 6 To Download: lomaprieta.sierraclub.org/sustain/guidelines Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter


--- page 307 ---
SIERRA CLUB LOMA PRIETA CHAPTER GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL,
COMMERCIAL, AND MIXED-USE TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD)

HOW TO USE THIS CHECKLIST :

1. Assign each line item a score in right hand column & total the score at the end of each section
2. Minimum score required for a good plan is 100 (out of a total possible score of OU)
3. There are TWO mandatory items required for endorsement which are HIGH ITED

1. Compact Development a. 100% Housing

uses less land than conventional
low-density development

. Provide a minimum of 20% or higher of the total residential units to be affordable’
20% affordable (2 pt.); 40% (4 pt.); 60% (6 pt.); 80% (8 pt.); 100% (10 pt.)

CHOOSE PARAGRAPH a, b, or c
AS APPLICABLE TO THE All affordable units (AFU) @ moderate income? (2 pt.); % of AFU @ low® pie very la racoine w/ %
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT @ moderate income (4 pt.); % @ low or very low-income w/ % @ moderate income (6 pt.); % @ low or

_very low income w/ % @ moderate income (8 pt.); All AFU @ low or very-low income (10 pt.)

iv. Build affordable housing on-site and not by using housing impact fees. (2 pt.)

v. Mitigate residential displacement as the project is developed by:

Providing relocation funding (or) including a “Right to Remain” Guarantee? (or) Guaranteeing existing
affordable units demolished by new construction will be replaced in final development at 1:1 ratio (or
other? Describe(5 pt.)

vi. Additional innovative features - describe (1 pt. each up to 3 pts.)

Total Points for Housing — Maximum Possible Score is 40 points
b. 100% Commercial

i. Assure the development will not exacerbate the region’s current jobs / housing imbalance.
Determine the number of jobs the project will support®, then determine how many housing units are
needed to house the expected number of employees by dividing the number of jobs in the project by
1.5°. Explain how the developer will help the region meet the shortfall (e.g. build the needed housing
on or off-site (or) pay an lieu housing development fee that is adequate to provide the housing off-site | \Q
(or) other? Describe (10 pts.) B~erabh
ii. Rent new commercial spaces to businesses that meet essential neighborhood needs (1 pt.
cere va BT, ail, Fw

iii_ Give priority to local and family businesses (1 pt.) 4

iv. Provide local businesses displaced by new construction relocation funding and the opportunity to
relocate into the new development after construction is completed (5 pt.) Twes, 7-1, PBT

v. Mitigate residential displacement as the project is developed by providing relocation funding
(5 pt.)

vi. Include Retail or Community-Serving space = 10% of Ground Floor Area (1 pt.); 20% (2 pt.); 30% (3
pt.); 40% (4 pt.); 50% or greater (5 pt.) to contribute to a vibrant pedestrian environment 304

vii. Additional innovative features - describe (1 pt. each up to 3 pts.) ‘o=3

Total Points for Commercial — Maximum Possible Score is 30 Points 20
c. Mixed-Use

. Use paragraph “a” above for housing share of mixed-use and paragraph “b” for commercial share.
eae points from paragraph a and b above by % share of each component [i.e. % square feet of

housing + % os a of commercial = 100% of C: development]) \ “|

9%(ib) + 23%C20) = VT

~ Total Points ae Mixed-Use — Maximum Possible Score is 30 - 40 Points "]

GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, OR MIXED-USE TOD DEVELOPMENTS, revised July 15, 2019
Page | 20f 6 To Download: lomaprieta.sierraclub.org/sustain/guidelines Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter


--- page 308 ---
SIERRA CLUB LOMA PRIETA CHAPTER GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL,
COMMERCIAL, AND MIXED-USE TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD)

a. Plan for Attractive Place Making
i. Provide public plaza(s) and/or green park(s) on-site (1 pt.) Yes, our a acres

ii. Provide appealing street facades with concealed parking behind, underground, or on top of the
building to encourage pedestrian activity and access (1 pt.)

iii. Combine open space with other adjacent developments into a common public plaza or green park
to work as a “place-making” setting (1 pt.)

2. Public and Community
Benefits are absolutely crucial
to create an amenity-rich area
and sense of community and
to help to ensure each new
project results in a positive
impact in the community

iv. Locate ground floor retail along public sidewalks (1 pt.)
v. Design / improve sidewalks with reduced vehicle curb cuts to enhance pedestrian safety (1 pt.)

vi. Restore existing natural features on-site including creeks, wetlands, trails, wooded areas, native
plants, etc. (1 pt.) Replaeiy bg mn —Natve trees with all mective

vii. Additional innovative features - describe (1 pt. each up to 3 pts.) “ PELG Pese cS

+ Public kv a:
b. Access to Services and Amenities * Connectiere TS ae baw
z : wer jae ‘ SATVeu Neibe
i. Access to nearby services and amenities within 1/2 mile radius on as open spaces, parks, health

pt. to each service. e.g. Health Care = 1 pt.; school = 1 pt.; etc.) (Describe other services that might
apply = 1 pt. each). Maximum of 10 pts.

ii. Determine Walk Score”® - the percentage of neighborhgod needs that can be met by walking
55%-64% Walk Score (1 pt.); 65%-74% (2 pt.); 75%-849)(3 pt.); 85%-94% (4 pt.); 95% (5 pt.)

c. Include Community Benefits":

i. Establish an Agreement for community benefits that_ensures ongoing funding for public amenities,
and guarantees project fees and taxes are allocated only to community benefits within % mile radius of pee
the development. Amenities that may be considered as a community benefit are often chosen from a 5
pre-determined list of alternatives, or may be negotiated between a municipality and developer (5 pt.)
ii. Contribute money to maintain or upgrade public parks or trails (1 pt.) yes ne
iii, Reclaim streets for community benefits such as pedestrian-only uses (1 pt.) Parting mae

i
iv. Provide day care facility on-site (1pt.) Yes °
v. Use Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) to protect natural features like creeks,

hillsides, bay front or wooded areas by purchasing land in areas threatened by development and

transferring those development rights into the proposed transit-oriented project where the receiving

property can qualify for zoning exemptions (1 pt.)

vi. Include Sierra Club’s ecological Urban Habitat Design Guidelines® (1 pt.) and conform to local

jurisdiction’s Urban Habitat Plan” if available (1 pt.) oe veh, deliv wid
oO e

vii. Additional innovative features - describe (1 pt. each up to 3 pts.) + dvy lockavyo

Total Points for Public and Community Benefits — Maximum possible score is 40

a. Create a Walkable Environment — Walking has many health, environmental, and economic benefits.
Pedestrian priority encourages walking as the primary mode of transportation.

i_Include pedestrian priority as the primary design criteria, with bikes and scooters second, transit
third, and automobiles last (9 pt.)

ii Provide mid-block pedestrian cross walks with flashing safety lights and bulb outs connected to
paseos, paths, or pass-through lobbies on-site to increase the ease of walking through the
development and adjacent neighborhoods (2 pt.)

3. Pedestrian Priority

iii. Provide wide pedestrian-friendly sidewalks’ that are level, well-lit (1 pt.), and include attractive,
functional street furniture, art & active facades along the sidewalk to encourage walking (1 pt.).

iv. Plan sidewalk & street intersections with bulb-outs to reduce street width at intersections (2 pt.)
v. Provide direct connection to designated urban trail system (2 pt.)

GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, OR MIXED-USE TOD DEVELOPMENTS, revised July 15, 2019
Page | 30f 6 To Download: lomaprieta.sierraclub.org/sustain/guidelines Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter


--- page 309 ---
SIERRA CLUB LOMA PRIETA CHAPTER GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL,
COMMERCIAL, AND MIXED-USE TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD)

vi. Additional innovative features - describe (1 pt. each up to 3 pts.) ¢ ‘Rased Qavewnert SRETICW LE=3 3
Tnteqvna ywiyo’ Stade & Aven

4. Transportation Alternatives a. Reduce Parking Requirements and Reduce Incentives to Drive 5

allow residents and visitors to
have options to conveniently and
safely commute and run errands
without a car.

ii. Provide unbundled parking. Unbundled parking (where users pay to park) is a disincentive to auto |@-or
ownership which reduces the number of spaces needed and the cost to build the spaces. This
construction cost savings can be passed on to tenants /buyers as rent reduction or reduced cost (5 pt.) >

iii. Provide shared parking on-site that can make spaces available for residential parking at night and | €or
office/commercial parking during the day to reduce overall parking spaces on-site (5 pt.) ee

iv. Pay for the city to establish and implement a Residential Permit Parking’’ program to protect sors
existing residential neighborhoods near or adjacent to the project neighborhoods from overflow

parking (5 pt.) i
v. Contract a shared parking agreement with parking facilities in nearby or adjacent developments to +60
reduce on-site parking. Often nearby developments that have unused spaces are happy to share

parking with a neighbor to fill those spaces and increase income. (1 pt.)

vi. Contribute to in-lieu fees to build public satellite parking in lieu of on-site parking.”* This avoids Cc
prime real estate in the project being used for parking rather than housing or commercial space and (ors—

can allow an increase the number or size of housing units, and /or increase commercial square footage
(1 pt.)

vii. Enroll the development in a local parking authority or Transportation Management Association*® =
TMA) that can direct resources to reduce parking demand and allow reduced on-site parking (1 pt.) ‘ ‘
viii. Bus stop located immediately adjacent to, or on-site (1 pt.) 0-6
ix. Provide designated pick-up and drop-off spaces for last-mile shuttles and Transportation Network -p@-ert 4

Companies (TNC) such as Uber & Lyft, that provide alternative mobility options (1 pt.)
x. Include car share within, or immediately adjacent to the development (1 pt.)

xi. Plan new above-ground parking garages to be designed to be convertible to other uses in the future | -er-
if parking demand drops due to new technologies (1 pt.)

b. Plan for Bicycle and Scooter Convenience

i. Help implement the City’s Bicycle Master Plan by connecting on-site bike routes to existing bike
routes, or building missing portions of bicycle routes near, or adjacent to the development (1 pt.)

ii, Provide one free bike parking space per housing unit in gender safe, visible, well-lit area (1 pt.) i
iii. Require 25% bike-to-car parking ratio for guest and public parking (1 pt.) i
iv. Provide signage and direct connection to designated bike lanes, routes, or paths to createa “way- [°® ]

\

> @
q

finding’”° system for pleasant and safe bike use, storage, and travel (1 pt.)
v. Provide bike share and/or scooter-share on, or immediately adjacent to the site (1 pt.) oo

vi. Provide incentives for bicycle use (on-site showers, lockers, bike repair areas, etc. (1 pt.)
c. Plan for Public Transit-

Beer
i. Provide incentives for transit use including transit passes” provided or subsidized by the developer |@er?
to residents and by businesses to employees for a minimum of five years (2 pt.) >

ii. Provide or support public shuttles to the development financed by the developer, through

development fees, or participation in a Community Benefit District? (2 pt.)
iii, Additional innovative features - describe (1 pt. each up t Sats.) 7 Mobi lity Hula oS
ONO ese Snr PUT ALEE re ipkoea Coy Wb, tPwrected ike P|
Total Points for Transportation Alternatives — Maximum possible score is 40 ee i apd 2
F 4a:
lan & von IIe OS U

GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, OR MIXED-USE TOD DEVELOPMENTS, revised July 15, 2019
Page | 4o0f 6 To Download: lomaprieta.sierraclub.org/sustain/guidelines Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter


--- page 310 ---
SIERRA CLUB LOMA PRIETA CHAPTER GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL,
COMMERCIAL, AND MIXED-USE TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD)

5. Energy and Resource a. Plan for Resource Efficiency — Buildings account for about 39% of energy consumption nationally

Efficiencies provide healthy work i. Plan for Zero Net Carbon (ZNC)” , e.g. solar photovoltaic panels, all electric building, other (3 pt.)
and living environments with a

low carbon footprint
pt.)

iii. Plan for Zero Net Waste” , e.g. recycling, sewage and waste management, other (3 pt.)
iv. Meet LEED or LEED Equivalent construction — Gold or Platinum (1 pt.)

v. Include electric car parking with Class 2 charging spots in 25% minimum of parking spaces (1 pt.) and
include public access to electric car charging stations as a public benefit where feasible (1 pt.)

vi. Include Low Impact Development” to improve storm water management (1 pt.)

vii. Deconstruct 70% or more of any existing structures being demolished (1 pt.)
viii. Use Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) wood, recycled wood, or wood from deconstruction for 75%

of the project’s wood needs, including wood used during construction (1 pt.)

ix. Comply with City’s Climate Action Plan goals to ensure new construction safeguards residents’

health by reducing airborne emissions (1 pt.)
x. Install green roof(s) to insulate the roof and reduce the heat island effect (1 pt.)
xi. Additional innovative features - describe (1 pt. each up to 3 pts.)

Total Points for Energy and Resource Efficiency - Maximum possible score is 20

6. A Healthy Ecology supports a. Plan to achieve a Healthy Ecology

resident's, guest’s, and : i. Provide sustainable landscaping”* (3 pt.)
employee’s health and well-being

Plan? if available. Plant new trees on-site and preserve and enhance the on-site and nearby existing
urban tree canopy (3 pt.)

iii. Include bird-friendly”” building and site design (3 pt.)

iv. Integrate the project with the City’s master plan for Green Corridors” (3 pt.) and bike master plan

source and a gathering space for people
vi. Discourage harmful pesticide use for landscaping and pest control (2 pt.)

vii. Additional innovative features - describe (1 pt. each up to 3 pts.)

TOTAL POINTS FORALLSECTIONS: j7 +3B34 IST SUH 8

Maximum possible score is 180; minimum required is 100

GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, OR MIXED-USE TOD DEVELOPMENTS, revised July 15, 2019
Page | Sof 6 To Download: lomaprieta.sierraclub.org/sustain/guidelines Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter


--- page 311 ---
SIERRA CLUB LOMA PRIETA CHAPTER GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL,
COMMERCIAL, AND MIXED-USE TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD)

END NOTES:

1 Transportation’s contribution to GHG emissions — City of San Mateo Climate Action Plan, page IV, “Figure ES-2:2005 ---“ -

https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/45410/San-Mateo-CAP—Adopted , and MTC - https://mtc.ca.gov/our- lans-projects/climate-change-
rograms/climate-initiatives- m

? Building’s contribution to GHG emissions — U.S. Green Building Council, www-eesi_org/files/climate.pdf

3 Commercial real estate is a term used to describe any building or property purchased or operated for the purpose of creating profit. This type of property includes
malls, stores, shopping centers, hotels, industrial property and office buildings.

* Affordable Housing — Housing affordable to individuals and families making between 30% to 120% of Area Median Income (AMI) as defined by the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban development (HUD).

5 Moderate Income- 81% to 120% of AMI

® Low Income — 51% to 80% of AMI

7 Very Low Income — 0% to 50% of AMI

8 No. of employees — Total gross area of Office Space divided by 250sf — 150 sf per employee. Tech jobs are closer to 150sf / employee e.g. Facebook. Employees
would include service workers in the facitlity. Also see Endnote 9.

° Healthy Jobs / Housing Balance - According to the Building Industry Association and the California Department of Finance, a healthy jobs / housing balance is 1.5.
(One full-time job and one part-time job per housing unit). Any ratio above 1.5 jobs per unit signifies there is an insufficient number of units to meet the needs of the
local workforce. The EIR for the development should specify the anticipated number of jobs expected in the development and quantify the number of housing units
expected to be needed to house those employees. Even if there is a numerical Jobs / Housing balance, there is often an imbalance in Jobs / Housing Fit (where
employees have high enough income to afford the housing in their community). Jobs / Housing Fit should also be taken into consideration when reviewing new
commercial developments.

10 Walk Score - https://www.walkscore.com

41 Community Benefits - may include affordable housing, living wages, local hiring, and training programs, environmental remediation, as well as funds for
community programs such as shuttles, beautification, recreational, neighborhood improvements, etc.

12 Transfer of Development Rights - https://www.mass.gov/service-details/smart-growth-smart-energy-toolkit-modules-transfer-of-development-rights-tdr

13 Urban Habitat Design Guidelines - https://www.sierraclub.org/sites/www.sierraclub.org/files/sce-authors/u4142/Urban%20Habitat%20Design%20Guidelines%20-
%20Sierra%20Club%20Loma%20Prieta%20Sept%202018. pdf

14 Urban Habitat Plan — Local jurisdiction’s tree and natural habitat master plan if available. A good example is the Palo Alto Urban Forest Master

Plan . httos://www.cityofpaloalto.org/gov/de: wd/trees/ufmp.asp"

45 Pedestrian-Friendly Sidewalks — Minimum width 7', level, with planting strip if directly adjacent to moving traffic, designed for enhancing and encouraging
pedestrian traffic and pedestrian priority.

16 Traffic Demand Management Program — e.g. The City of San Carlos requires TDM for residential projects over a certain size and includes a good description of TDM
in its zoning code at: www.codepublishing.com/CA/SanCarlos/html/SanCariosi8/SanCarios1825.html#18.25 ; See also Wikipedia TDM Toolkit -
hitps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transportation demand _management#Demand_ management toolbox

17 Residential Parking Permit — City parking restriction program to protect residential area street parking, for use primarily by area residents.

18 Satellite Parking — Some cities, such as Portland, Oregon have low or no parking requirements in downtown buildings because the city provides public parking
structures, in preferred locations, using “in-lieu” developer fees.

19 Traffic Management Association — is a non-profit, member-controlled organizations that provide transportation services in a particular area, such as a commercial
district, mall, medical center or industrial park. They are generally public-private partnerships, consisting primarily of area businesses with local government support.
20 Way-finding System- Signage and other visual cues to help people move through a city and feel comfortable doing that because of the way-finding design

21 Bulk Transit Passes — Caltrain “Go Pass” http://www.caltrain.com/Fares/tickettypes/GO_Pass.html ; SamTrans “Way2Go”

http://www.samtrans.com/fares/fare fay2Go _Program.htmi

22 Community Benefit District - Established to monitor and enforce a Community Benefit Agreement

23 Zero Net Carbon (ZNC) — A zero net carbon building meets all its energy needs from zero-carbon sources such as solar or wind to reduce GHG
emissions. http://www.sanjoseca.gov/index.aspx?NID=6150

See also Guide for 2020 update of California Buildng Code for new Residences - https://energycodeace .adobeconnect.com/aia-zne-guide

24 Zero Net Water — Zero Net Water is ananalogous concept to Zero Net Carbon. Through a combination of rainfall harvesting, aggressive conservation, and water
recycling, buildings can achieve self-sufficiency from the water “grid”

25 Zero Net Waste — Zero Waste is a philosophy that encourages the redesign of resource life cycles so that all products are reused. The goal is no trash to be sent to
landfills, incinerators, or the ocean. https://sfenvironment. zero-waste-in-SF-i: cling-composting-and-reuse

26 Sustainable Landscaping - Sustainable landscaping is in balance with the local climate and requires minimal resource inputs, such as fertilizer, pesticides, gasoline,
time, and water, is re-generative, and can actively contribute to the development of healthy communities. Sustainable landscapes sequester carbon, clean the air
and water, increase energy efficiency, restore habitats, and create value through significant economic, social and environmental benefits.

27 Bird Friendly Design - Reduce building reflectivity, light pollution, transparency, etc. to prevent bird collisions with glazing https://www.go-
gba.org/resources/green-building-methods/bird-friendly-design/

28 Green Corridors — provide network of shaded bike and pedestrian paths, with traffic calming, tree lined, with green infrastructure - linking the whole city to
support a healthy lifestyle and a healthy ecology. Sierra Club Green Urban Corridors - https://www-sierraclub.org/sites/www.sierraciub.org/files/sce-
authors/u4142/webpage-under%20constr%20green%20coridors%203-21-19.pdf

GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, OR MIXED-USE TOD DEVELOPMENTS, revised July 15, 2019
Page | Gof 6 To Download: lomaprieta.sierraclub.org/sustain/guidelines Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter


--- page 312 ---
Loma Prieta Chapter of the Sierra Club - 3921 East Bayshore Road #240, Palo Alto, CA 94303 - 650-390-8411 www lomaprieta sierraclub org
Loma Prieta Chapter serving San Mateo, Santa Clara & San Benito Counties
April 9, 2020
San Mateo Planning Commission,
City of San Mateo,
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
Via email: PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org
Attn: Lisa Costa Sanders, Contract Planner (Passage@cityofsanmateo.org)
Subject: Concar Passage Housing Development at San Mateo
Thank you for providing the opportunity for the Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter Sustainable Land Use
Committee (SLU) to comment on the proposed Concar Passage at San Mateo project. SLU is the
committee of the local Sierra Club chapter that advocates on land use issues like major development
projects. As an environmental organization working towards reducing local greenhouse gas and other
emissions, we encourage the development of higher density, mixed-use development near major transit
stations.
We understand that you will be addressing the Passage at San Mateo Project at your April 28, 2020
meeting. We would like to provide comments on that project.
As part of our efforts to encourage sustainable development we have established a set of
Guidelines for Residential, Commercial and Mixed-Use Transit Oriented Development (TOD).
These Guidelines include a scoring system for evaluation of projects.
Attached is our Guidelines and our current scoring for this project. After reviewing the plans and
meeting with the developer, the Passage proposal received a total of 121 points; however, many of
those points were for features that were given to us verbally by the developer, but are not yet final until
they are included in either the Plans or the Development Agreement.
We consider 100 points (out of a maximum possibly score of 180) a minimum for consideration for
supporting a project. We cannot, however, consider fully endorsing the project at this time, as we
need to go through additional process steps which will require additional information.
The project scores well in our Guidelines. I would like to highlight some of the main points below. Then
provide a detailed list the projects strengths as well as opportunities for improvement.

--- page 313 ---
Loma Prieta Chapter of the Sierra Club - 3921 East Bayshore Road #240, Palo Alto, CA 94303 - 650-390-8411 www lomaprieta sierraclub org

The project provides significant density of housing (66 units/ acre) for a very sizable amount of
housing (961 units). The 10% affordable units at very low income and 5% for affordable workforce
housing is particularly helpful. A project like this is beneficial to the environment by reducing auto
travel by being near public transit and having many needed services accessible by walking or bicycle.
This is very valuable given the housing crisis in the Bay Area.

The inclusion of a Mobility Hub will further reduce auto traffic and its attendant pollution including
greenhouse gas emissions. This is an innovative feature that can be used by all residents and
workers in the area, not just those in this development. It will also help reduce local traffic
congestion by reducing the number of cars that would be in the area.

The project contains a number of features that significantly improve pedestrian and bicycle access
including safe and pleasant paths to the local businesses and amenities in the area. This encourages
walking and biking, thus further reducing local traffic impacts and provides an attractive, healthy
environment for all the residents of San Mateo.
We are pleased (based on the plans and verbal assurances by the developer) that the proposal is
planned to include:
1.
High amount of new housing with 961 units
2.
10% affordable for very low income, 5% affordable workforce units
3.
Near Caltrain and bus /shuttle lines as a TOD
4.
Mobility Hub that provides a full range for transportation options
5.
Helps improve the local jobs/housing imbalance
6.
Retains local amenities (Trader Joes, Peninsula Ballet Theatre, etc.)
7.
Subsidizes local business in the development
8.
~4 acres of public parks/open space
9.
Includes pedestrian friendly sidewalks and intersections
10. Native landscaping
11. Public playgrounds and fitness stations
12. Funding of local public amenities
13. Day care facility
14. Bike share and repair
15. Solar power on 20% of roof area
16. Monitored Traffic Demand Management Program
17. Lots of bicycle parking (over 1 per unit)
18. Expands pedestrian and bicycle paths
19. Ability to convert parking garages to other uses in future if parking demand drops
20. Electric car charging stations
21. Provides infrastructure to expand electric car charging stations in future
22. Near many local amenities, (shopping, restaurants, day care, schools etc.)

--- page 314 ---
Loma Prieta Chapter of the Sierra Club - 3921 East Bayshore Road #240, Palo Alto, CA 94303 - 650-390-8411 www lomaprieta sierraclub org
23. On-site garden for Food Hall
24. All electric residential units
There are also areas where we encourage the city to seek possible additional benefits for the project.
This includes:
1.
Unbundled parking: Require Unbundled parking for all the residential parking spaces
and a Residential Parking Permit Program: This is important to implement, as it will
financially incentivize residents to not use cars. This will reduce environmental
impacts, including local traffic congestion. The Residential Parking Permit program
will assure that residents don’t park in adjacent neighborhoods.
2.
Specify Conditions of Approval: All of the positive aspects of the development listed
(1–24) above should be included in the Development Agreement or as a Condition
of Approval. We urge the Commission to require that all the developer’s promises
be codified in the Development Agreement and ensure that these are in fact
executed.
3.
Subsidize transit passes: Require the owner/developer to provide subsidized transit
passes for five years for all residents to encourage transit use.
4.
Affordable housing: An increase of affordable and low-income units to 20% would
also enhance the project.
We ask that you consider the information in the Guidelines and our scoring as you consider this project.
Respectfully submitted:
Gita Dev, FAIA, Co-chair,
Sustainable Land Use Committee
Sierra Club Loma Prieta Chapter (SCLP)
Attachment: SCLP Guidelines- with itemized scoring for the proposed development
Cc
James Eggers, Exec Director SCLP
Gladwyn D’Souza, Chair, Conservation Committee, SCLP

--- page 315 ---
2
Rendell Bustos
From:
Dennis Keane 
Sent:
Friday, April 3, 2020 11:59 AM
To:
Concar Passage Mixed Use Project
Subject:
re Concar Passage draft EIR
Categories:
Public Comments
Can you direct me to this: “The project’s effects on intersection levels of service are discussed in a 
separate General Plan Conformance Transportation Analysis report.” 
 
Can you direct me to the link for this portion of the draft EIR? Thank you. 
 
Dennis Keane

--- page 316 ---
3
Rendell Bustos
From:
Dennis Keane 
Sent:
Friday, April 3, 2020 8:10 AM
To:
Concar Passage Mixed Use Project
Subject:
Complete traffic report
Categories:
Public Comments
Hello, 
 
In reading the Hexagon Transportation Consultants report on traffic effects of the Passages development, I see this 
instruction in several places: “The project’s effects on freeway levels of service are discussed in a separate traffic 
operations analysis report.” And “ The project’s effects on intersection levels of service are discussed in a separate traffic 
operations analysis report.” Can you direct me to that separate report?  
 
Thank you, 
Dennis Keane

--- page 317 ---
Rendell Bustos

From: Tom Taber

Sent: Thursday, April 2, 2020 11:40 AM

To: Concar Passage Mixed Use Project

Cc: Tom Taber

Subject: Comment on Concar Passage Mixed Use Project EIR Draft
Categories: Public Comments

To whom it may concern:

| read the EIR for the Concar Passage Mixed Use Project. Because the site is currently a strip mall
that has few if any natural qualities | don't see any reason why this project shouldn't go forward. In
fact, | think it will have a positive environmental impact by placing much needed housing close to a
Caltrain station. This will reduce commuter traffic by allowing people to take public transportation and
to live close to where they work. Currently, many employees of San Mateo County businesses are
clogging Highway 92 as they drive across the Highway 92 bridge from the east side of San Francisco
Bay because there is insufficient housing in San Mateo County.

| do have a suggestion for landscaping that will reduce water consumption and provide food and
habitat for native wildlife, especially birds and butterflies. California has many species of native plants,
including bushes and trees, that are adapted to our annual drought cycle and provide food and
shelter for native birds and other wildlife. | have grown some of these in my yard with great success.
Instead of planting non-native ornamental plants | suggest planting native vegetation. Here is a partial
list:

Sticky Monkey Flower
California Buckeye
Ceanothus

Manzanita

Bay Laural

Wild Fuchsia

Toyon

California Poppy
Flowering Currant
Black Sage

Douglas Iris
California Flannelbush
Blue Elderberry
Twinberry

Bush Lupine.

Sincerely,
Tom Taber



--- page 318 ---
5
Rendell Bustos
From:
Bev Kalinin 
Sent:
Wednesday, April 1, 2020 6:43 PM
To:
Concar Passage Mixed Use Project; Barb Niss
Subject:
Re: Concar Passage Mixed Use Project Draft EIR
Categories:
Public Comments
Ms. Sanders, Project Manager 
 
I call to your attention the Business Section of today's SF Chronicle (4/1/20): MOST 
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS BANNED.  There is an order from Bay Area health officials 
that all construction be shut down.  This includes the six large counties, including San 
Mateo. 
 
Please read and share this information with our San Mateo officials.  Especially, how will 
this affect the CONCAR PASSAGE project?   
 
I believe our City should carefully investigate this situation, as it will most probably 
affect the future of PASSAGE. 
 
Beverly Kalinin 
 
On Wednesday, April 1, 2020, 04:10:50 PM PDT, Concar Passage Mixed Use Project <passage@cityofsanmateo.org> 
wrote:  
 
 
This project has not been approved and this is the same developer originally submitted an application and 
conducted neighborhood outreach.  Review by the City and preparation of the appropriate environmental 
review takes time.   
 
let me know if you have any other questions or need additional information. 
 
thank you, Lisa 
 
Lisa Costa Sanders, Project Planner 
City of San Mateo 
650‐333‐0248 
 
From: Bev Kalinin
 
Sent: Saturday, March 28, 2020 4:31 AM 
To: Concar Passage Mixed Use Project <passage@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Re: Concar Passage Mixed Use Project Draft EIR  
  
I just received from the city of San Mateo a notice about this--which puzzles me.  I 
thought this was a done deal and we residents adjacent to this project were unhappily

--- page 319 ---
6
awaiting for the noise, commotion, building, and interruption to our lives to begin--with 
the rumor that it would be at least five years (news that pleased us.) 
 
So, who is this new developer?  Did the other one back out?  Or is this a last-moment 
chance for us living in the vicinity to shout NO!! 
 
Does anyone know anything about this? 
 
Beverly Kalinin 
19th Avenue Park 
 
On Thursday, March 26, 2020, 01:41:35 PM PDT, Concar Passage Mixed Use Project <passage@cityofsanmateo.org> 
wrote:  
 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
PUBLIC NOTICE 
NOTICE OF AVAILABILITY AND PUBLIC HEARING 
  
45-Day Public Review Period for the Draft Environmental Impact Report (EIR)  
Beginning on:  March 26, 2020 
Ending on:  May 11, 2020 
  
Planning Commission Public Hearing for Public Comments on the Draft EIR  
April 28, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. 
City of San Mateo Council Chambers 
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403 
No decision will be made at this meeting. 
Please check the project webpage at www.cityofsanmateo.org/passage for updates to meeting details. 
  
PROJECT:

--- page 320 ---
7
Concar Passage Mixed Use Project would develop an approximately 14.5 acre site with 961 residential 
units (15% affordable) and 40,000 square feet of commercial space, with 3 acres of open space, 
circulation, parking, infrastructure and grading improvements. The site is comprised of eight parcels (APNs 
035-243-090, -140, -160, -170, -190, -200, -210, -220), located at 640, 666, 678, 690 Concar Drive, 1820, 
1850 S. Grant Street and 1855 S. Delaware Street, San Mateo.    
  
APPLICANT:  
Brian Myers, California Coastal Properties 
4 Embarcadero, Suite 1400, San Francisco, CA 94111  
(949)719-1550     bmyers@nuquestventures.com  
  
How to get more information: The Draft EIR and all documents referenced in the Draft EIR are 
available for review online at www.cityofsanmateo.org/passageDEIR. For those unable to access the 
Draft EIR online, please email passage@cityofsanmateo.org or call (650) 333-0248 to request a hard 
copy mailed to your address.  
  
How to provide comments: Comments on the Draft EIR must be given in writing by May 11, 2020 at 
5:00 p.m. Comments on the project generally may be given in writing at any time. All written comments 
OR questions should be directed to the project planner:  
Lisa Costa Sanders, Contract Planner 
passage@cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 333-0248 
330 West 20th Ave, San Mateo, CA 94403 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
The project site is located on Concar Drive, between south Grant Street and South Delaware 
Street.  The site is approximately 14.5 acres and currently occupied by Concar Shopping Center, 
which includes Trader Joe’s, Peninsula Ballet Theatre, Ross Dress for Less, The Pantry, Rite-Aid, 
T.J. Maxx, Shane Co., and 7-Eleven. The project proposes to demolish the existing commercial 
buildings and construct 961 multi-family dwelling units and approximately 40,000 square feet of 
commercial/retail space.  The project includes 73 affordable housing units, associated parking and 3 
acres of community open space.  Commercial uses include Trader Joe’s, Peninsula Ballet Theatre, 7-
Eleven and a new SEED food hall, with other retail space and a daycare facility for approximately 70 
children.

--- page 321 ---
8
The Environmental Impact Report serves as the 
required environmental document for the 
following discretionary project approvals: 
1. Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) 
2. Site Development Planning Application 
(SDPA) 
3. Vesting Tentative Map 
 
 
 
 
The Draft EIR has identified that the project would have significant impacts in the areas of Biological 
Resources, Cultural Resources, Hazards & Hazardous Materials, and Noise.  The project site is not 
included on any list enumerated under Section 65962.5 of the Government Code (commonly referred 
to as the “Cortese List”).  
  
  
  
  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from 
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message 
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender 
immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. 
Thank you.  
* PRIVILEGE AND CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This message, together with any attachments, is intended only for the 
use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. It may contain information that is confidential and prohibited from 
disclosure. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination or copying of this message 
or any attachment is strictly prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the original sender 
immediately by telephone or by return e-mail and delete this message along with any attachments from your computer. 
Thank you.

--- page 322 ---
9
Rendell Bustos
From:
Concar Passage Mixed Use Project
Sent:
Wednesday, April 1, 2020 11:12 AM
To:
Subject:
Concar Passages Mixed Use Project
Categories:
Public Comments
Confirming receipt of your comments.  I will provide a copy of your comments to staff for consideration.  thank you, Lisa
 
Lisa Costa Sanders, Planner 
City of San Mateo 
650‐333‐0248 
 
 
-----Original Message----- 
From: Elaine Thompson 
 
Sent: March 28, 2020 2:01 PM 
To: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Concar Passage Mixed Usage Project 
 
 
Dear City of San Mateo Council Members, 
I am a resident who lives in Fiesta Gardens. 
I have received a notice from you telling me of your April plans for the shopping center that you call The 
Concar Passenger on Grant and Ginnever Street. This is not acceptable under these circumstances.I firmly 
believe you should cancel your plans until further notice. 
 
Sincerely, 
Elaine Thompson

--- page 323 ---
10
Rendell Bustos
From:
Valerie Acker 
Sent:
Friday, March 27, 2020 8:34 AM
To:
llim@cityofsanmateo.org; planingcommission@cityofsanmateo.org; Public Works; Concar Passage 
Mixed Use Project
Subject:
Fw: PA18-052 Concar Passage Project
Attachments:
Traffic Flow Passage Project.pdf
Categories:
Public Comments
Hi 
I would like to know why my comment email was not included in the SEIR Appendix K 'public 
comments'.  I feel I have valid points that the public should see and applicant should address to both 
the City of San Mateo and to the public. 
 
Please advise immediately. 
Thanks 
Valerie Acker 
 
 
----- Forwarded Message ----- 
From: Valerie Acker 
 
To: llim@cityofsanmateo.org <llim@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org <planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org <publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Sent: Thursday, March 21, 2019, 01:33:08 PM PDT 
Subject: PA18-052 Concar Passage Project 
 
Greetings, 
I recently received the Notice of Preparation of a Supplemental Environmental Impact Report (EIR) and Public Scoping 
Meeting.  I feel the need to comment on some issues I see, and I feel strongly that these issues must be addressed.   
I see Trader Joe’s will be a part of this project.  Where the nearby residents do want a grocery store, we don’t feel that 
Trader Joe’s should be able to hold us 'hostage' to that particular location of the project.  It looks like a good location to 
the corporate office of Trader Joe’s located in San Diego, but they really don’t have any concern about our traffic 
circulation in that intersection.  I feel their main concern is that they have freeway visibility for their signage.  Can we reach
a compromise and relocate their store to another corner of the project and promise Trader Joe’s they will have visible 
signage on the south side of the actual apartment building? Or look for comparable grocery store for another location in 
project? 
The traffic and circulation of the project doesn’t seem to have been planned with any consideration for our current traffic 
issues, which in turn will cause a headache for Public Works.  As they will have to reconfigure the traffic flow and the tax 
paying residents will be charged for it.  The congestion at the intersections at 92 and Fashion Island/19th Avenue at 
Delaware and also at Grant/Ginnever have been an ongoing issue and continue to get worse daily.  The City has done 
some traffic mediation, but these 2 intersections are currently out of control.  Currently the plans show the main drive, 
Passage Way formerly known as C Street, for access to residents parking seems to be on the alley that runs East/West 
adjacent to State Route 92.  Has anyone other than myself seemed to notice that this thoroughfare will be the main 
thoroughfare for almost all residents and shoppers?  Please note that the East entrance/exit to Passage Way is less than 
300 feet from Fashion Island/19th Av at Grant/Ginnever? And the West entrance/exit is approximately 315 feet from the 
Delaware & Fashion Island/19th Av traffic interchange, and only 100 feet to the ‘Hub’ entrance/exit for all the shuttles and 
car shares.  Are you kidding me?

--- page 324 ---
11
Besides the horrendous planning for residential and retail shopper parking these driveways are in the heart of 2 known 
problem areas!  What, if any, plans have been made to address the impact on the existing neighborhoods?   
We continue to hear there will be retail space for smaller vendors but retail space at Station Park Green has yet to be 
filled, nor has all the retail space at Bay Meadows.  I think this quaint little self-sustained village is a pipe dream for a 
perfect world.   
There will be higher elevated poor air quality, hazardous materials, traffic congestion and noise if this project does not 
address the placement of Trader Joe’s and the parking for residents. 
Please see attached overlay of project site noting just the driveways as they relate to existing roads. (pasted into email 
and attached as .pdf) 
Thank you for your consideration, 
Valerie Acker 
Fiesta Gardens resident

--- page 325 ---
4
b

f
. 4

‘|

|

Se ite eee a ee ee

dint, ake} .
f Aprox 300 feet between Distance BF less
act to Existing Concern ae een _ Future Impaett

>



--- page 326 ---
1
Rendell Bustos
From:
Concar Passage Mixed Use Project
Sent:
Tuesday, April 28, 2020 5:03 PM
To:
Concar Passage Mixed Use Project
Subject:
FW: Passages
Categories:
Public Comments
From: Nancy Schneider 
  
Sent: Tuesday, April 28, 2020 12:33 PM 
To: Planning <planning@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Passages 
 
Dear Members of the Planning Commission: 
 
I have reviewed the draft Environmental Impact Report for the Concar Passage project and strongly support this project. 
 
I support it because it provides a large number of housing units to community including 15% affordable 
units.  Importantly, it is also very close to Caltrain and they owners plan to operate shuttle lines as a travel demand 
management feature.  In addition, the planned Mobility Hub will provide a range of transportation options and work 
spaces.  I also like that there is much open space and pedestrian friendly facilities.    The inclusion of solar panels and all 
electric units helps reduce the carbon footprint of the area.  
 
This is a good project for San Mateo. 
 
Thank you for your consideration. 
 
Nancy Schneider 
San Mateo Resident.

--- page 327 ---
2
Rendell Bustos
From:
Daniel Bruch 
Sent:
Tuesday, April 28, 2020 2:37 PM
To:
Concar Passage Mixed Use Project
Subject:
Concar Passage EIR comments
Categories:
Public Comments
Below are my comments regarding the Concar Passage EIR submittal: 
 
The report shows that sewage demand increases by 700%.  What will be done with the existing infrastructure to 
serve this need?  How is the developer contributing to upgrade the city infrastructure? 
 
The transportation study doesn't account for trips currently visiting the site which now have to go 
elsewhere.  This study only looks at vehicles entering the site boundary; there will be an overall increase in trips 
within San Mateo city limits. 
 
Will the developer contribute to improvements for the surrounding roads, to account for additional 
trips?  The roads immediately surrounding the site, and in adjoining neighborhoods, are already in poor 
condition and will deteriorate faster with more vehicle traffic. 
 
This development is built under false Transit Oriented Development pretenses.  The Hayward Park Caltrain has 
limited service and does not adequately serve current population, both in train frequency and capacity.  Caltrain 
electrification does not guarantee a significant change to train availability.  This site should not considered an 
equivalent to the area surrounding the Hillsdale station, which has much more transit accessibility. 
 
The proposed Trader Joe's location will negatively impact traffic on Delaware.  There will be significant safety 
issues for cyclists and pedestrians traveling north along Delaware.  The additional delivery vehicles will clog the 
Delware entrance and potentially backup traffic. 
 
The developer and city need to minimize construction impacts.  The Concar / Delware area was 
severely impacted by Station Park Green construction.  The contractors disregarded existing residents' access to 
these roads, especially during morning commute hours.  The city did not enforce road blockages / closures 
on the SPG project, and must do so on the new project. 
 
The 10% allotment of "very low income" housing is inadequate.  To further exacerbate the issue, the density 
bonus is not subject to low income unit requirement.  These residences will be financially inaccessible to 
teachers and those in the service industry, who are desperately in need of housing. 
 
The city should commission a separate, independent transportation report from someone besides Hexagon.  The 
city also uses Hexagon, and previous projects were built upon their studies.  We need a truly independent report 
from someone who doesn't pose a potential conflict of interest between the developer and the city. 
 
Daniel Bruch 
San Mateo (Sunnybrae) resident