source: packet.pdf
sha256: 34aa8c6c2a2fe4ae036cb90cc12ffc56946b2cc53242ffdd62d299d03c2c2188
pages: 36
ocr_pages: 0
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Park and Recreation Commission
February 3, 2021
7:00 PM
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Eric Holm, Chair
Sean Williams, Vice Chair
Lindsey Held
J. Christopher Massey
Heather Wolnick
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN‐PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: February 3, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638‐0968
Conference ID: 836 6939 8888        Passcode: 716277
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call 
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without discussion. If
discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
1.
Approval of Minutes
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of December 2, 2020.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Persons wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may submit to the Recording Secretary a "Request
to Speak" form. State law prevents the Commission from taking action on any matter not on this agenda. Your comments
may be referred to staff for further review.
NEW BUSINESS
2.
New Protected Trees Ordinance and Accompanying Administrative Guidelines
Recommend to City Council the adoption of the new Protected Trees Ordinance and the accompanying
Administrative Guidelines.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commissioners and staff report on their various assignments and requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
1 of 36

--- page 2 ---
­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­
Agendas are posted on the City's website by the Friday preceding each Commission Meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: prcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4:00 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted
by default. When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the
appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638‐0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the
item of interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and
provide your comments.
Accessibility: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to
participate in this meeting may contact the Parks and Recreation Administrative Office at (650) 522‐7400 or by email at
parksandrecreation@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will enable the City to make reasonable
arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting. 
2 of 36

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 2018 - 21-4251
TO:
Park & Recreation Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Approval of Minutes
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of December 2, 2020.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - 20_12_02 Regular Meeting Minutes Draft
STAFF CONTACT
Giovana Orozco, Administrative Technician
gorozco@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7400
3 of 36

--- page 4 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/02/20 
Page 1 
COMMISSION MEMBERS 
Eric Holm, Chair  
Sean Williams, Vice Chair  
Lindsey Held  
J. Christopher Massey  
Heather Wolnick 
 
City of San Mateo  
Regular Meeting Minutes 
Park and Recreation Commission 
City Hall 
330 W. 20th Avenue 
San Mateo CA 94403 
www.cityofsanmateo.org 
  
Wednesday, December 2, 2020 
Remote 7:00 PM 
Regular Meeting 
  
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.  
 
Chair Holm called the meeting to order at 7:02 PM 
Pledge of Allegiance 
Roll Call 
 
 
Remote:    Commissioners Present: Held, Holm, Massey, Wolnick  
Absent: Williams 
CONSENT CALENDAR  
 
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without 
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.  
 
1. Approval of Minutes 
Approve the Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes of October 7, 2020. Motion carried 4/0. 
 
Moved: Massey   Seconded: Held 
Ayes: Massey, Held, Wolnick, Holm 
  
Noes:  
Abstained:  
 
 
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
• 
Drew, thanked the City staff for adding Zoom meeting ID and passcode allowing for ease of access to the meeting.  
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
2. 
Informational Update on Community Gardens Research 
 
Sheila Canzian, Director and Ron Hostick, Park & Landscape Manager presented an update to the Park and 
Recreation Commission on staff’s research to date regarding further expansion of the community gardening 
program. Commissioners thanked staff for the research done, posed questions and offered comments. They were 
generally supportive of the recommendations presented.  
 
Some Commissioner recommended looking into possibly assigning plots based on geographic location to avoid 
gardeners driving across town to garden. Commissioners were generally in favor of adding plots but expressed 
4 of 36

--- page 5 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/02/20 
Page 2 
hesitation to add new locations and recommended doing further research and outreach to the community to 
ensure that the available spaces are being used in a way that is best for most constituents.   
 
Public Comment:  
- 
Patrick Dolan, Beresford Community Garden Board Member – Thanked staff for their effort working on the 
community gardens and expressed his fondness for the work he’s done with the Board. He voiced concern for 
the recommendation to split up larger plots at the Beresford Garden and asked that staff work with the 
gardeners to make these decisions. He pointed to the types of crops that are grown in these larger plots as 
well as the number of gardeners the board has to manage Patrick clarified some questions regarding the 
waitlist management as well as the higher turnover rate. He believes there were some design and execution 
flaws when the Los Prados plots were introduced, including but not limited to the plot locations and type of 
soil used.  
- 
Adam Lorraine, Sustainability and Infrastructure Commissioner and San Mateo Resident – Adam disclosed 
that his comments this evening should be considered as that of a San Mateo private resident and were solely 
his and not associated to the opinion of the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission. He thanked staff 
for their effort working on the community gardens, expressed his passion for sustainability and stated that he 
is generally in alignment with the information presented in the staff report and comments made by 
commissioners. He expressed his belief that with the current situation this conversation is very important and 
that gardening will continue to be as or more important when things get back to “normal.” He stated that due 
to the waitlists county wide he does not believe the city is over committing with their recommendation to 
add additional plots and is in favor of considering geographic assignments to plots.  
- 
Drew, San Mateo Resident – Drew commented on the recommendations made to waitlist management 
strategies and stated that he did not believe it would be fair to move people to the end if they denied a plot 
located in a garden they did not want. He stated that he believed it would be better to add a preference 
when adding your name to the list and working that way. Drew also recommended that accommodations 
should be considered for long time gardeners in good standing to move from one plot to another as they 
become available. He echoed the comments about doing some research on the geographic locations of 
gardeners homes in relation to where they are gardening.  
 
 
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS 
• 
Sheila Canzian, Director – Expressed that the department is working diligently with the updated restrictions due 
to the COVID-19 surge in the county and constantly changing health orders. She stated that there was some 
scaling back of recreation programs, especially the start of indoor programming. Sheila, let commissioners know 
that there are still a variety of virtual programs and they could view the departments offerings in the virtual 
guide available online.   
• 
Sheila Canzian, Director –Reminded Commissioners of the Brighten Up San Mateo Holiday event which they all 
received invitations to. She also encouraged they share the information with family and friends. She stated that 
December is typically a busy month for the department and this year has been slower and quieter due to the 
restrictions in place but that there is a desire to continue bringing holiday spirit to the community where 
permitted.  
• 
Commissioner Wolnick asked whether the outdoor classes she has observed in local parks are being offered 
through a permitting process. Sheila Canzian, Director responded that all activities are permitted through the 
department although there are some outlier groups who attempt using the outdoor park spaces without 
permits. However, the Park Rangers and staff have kept a close eye and have provided education to these 
groups. She informed Commissioner that City Council requested these permits be provided free of charge due to 
the issues they were already experiencing due to reduced capacity and other restrictions. She expressed that all 
groups have been compliant with the different regulation so far.  
 
5 of 36

--- page 6 ---
Park and Recreation Commission Regular Meeting Minutes – 12/02/20 
Page 3 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
The meeting adjourned at 8:07 PM  
 
SUBMITTED BY:  
 
 
 
Giovana Orozco, Recording Secretary 
 
Giovana Orozco  
6 of 36

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4248
TO:
Park & Recreation Commission
FROM:
Sheila Canzian, Director of Parks and Recreation
PREPARED BY:
Parks and Recreation Department
MEETING DATE:
February 03, 2021 
SUBJECT:
New Protected Trees Ordinance and Accompanying Administrative Guidelines
RECOMMENDATION:
Recommend to City Council the adoption of the new Protected Trees Ordinance and the accompanying Administrative 
Guidelines.
BACKGROUND:
The City of San Mateo’s Heritage Tree Ordinance (SMMC Chapter 13.52) was first adopted in 1968 to ensure a significant 
and thriving population of large healthy trees in San Mateo for public enjoyment and environmental sustainability, while 
honoring the reasonable economic enjoyment of private property. Since first adopted, the Heritage Tree Ordinance has 
been revised several times, most recently in 2007, to improve its relevance to the times and to enhance its efficacy toward 
achieving its intended purpose. Over the past six years, Parks staff has observed some elements of the ordinance that:
 

Are difficult to interpret and confusing to the public

Create tree preservation loopholes

Are difficult to administer and enforce

Are not in accordance with current industry best practices 
With the aim of enhancing clarity, increasing and maintaining canopy, and increasing effectiveness of ordinance 
implementation, staff has prepared Chapter 13.40 “Protected Trees” ordinance to replace the existing Chapter 13.35 
“Street Trees” and Chapter 13.52 “Heritage Trees”. The proposed updates are informed by staff and resident experiences, 
Park and Recreation Commission comments from three public meetings, and by a study of ordinances recently adopted in 
neighboring cities. Considerable input was provided by arborist staff in the Community Development Department, the City 
Attorney’s office, and several outside consulting arborists. Staff presented proposed changes to the public at three Park 
and Recreation Commission meetings between July and October 2020. At these meetings, staff presented on aspects of 
the ordinance that could use refinement and raised for discussion proposed changes to better meet its intent and purpose. 
The presentations were announced to the public on the City’s website and Nextdoor.com. 
Significant changes to the Ordinance include:

New definition “Protected Trees” to include Street Trees and Heritage Trees 

Simplification of verbiage for criteria for Heritage Tree removal

Adjustment of size and species considered Heritage trees

Institution of appeal fees for Protected Tree permit decisions

Introduction of Administrative Guidelines document to provide additional information on items too lengthy for 
7 of 36

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
inclusion in ordinance, or likely to require more frequent and nimble revision 

Removal of notification and right to appeal for trees determined to be dead or dangerous by Managing Arborist

Clearer tree disclosure and tree protection requirements for discretionary development projects 
The accompanying document, the Administrative Guidelines, are intended to aid the public in interpreting and complying 
with the ordinance. The draft of the Administrative Guidelines presented to the Commission is a work in progress that will 
continue to be developed prior to implementation.  At this time, the Commission is asked to pay particular attention to the 
sections titled “Protected Tree Replacement,” “Remedies,” and “Equivalencies.” 
Following Commission approval, the revised ordinance will be forwarded to the City Council for adoption with an intended 
effective date of July 1, 2021. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Adoption of the Protected Trees Ordinance will not have a budgetary impact.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061B3, adoption of this Ordinance and the Administrative Guidelines is not 
a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that it will not impact the environment.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Protected Trees Ordinance
Att 2 – Proposed Administrative Guidelines
Att 3 – Current Heritage Tree Ordinance SMMC 13.52
Att 4 – Current Street Tree Ordinance SMMC 13.35
STAFF CONTACT
Matthew Fried, Managing Arborist
mfried@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7422
8 of 36

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Repealing Chapter 13.35, “Street Trees” and Chapter 13.52 “Heritage Trees” of Title 13, “Parks and 
Recreation,” and Adopting a New Chapter 13.40, “Protected Trees,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
WHEREAS, The City has a street tree ordinance codified at Chapter 13.35 of the Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, The City has a heritage tree ordinance codified at Chapter 13.52 of the Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, The City wishes to combine those Chapters into a new Chapter 13.40 addressing all protected 
trees; and
WHEREAS, The City wishes to simplify and update the provisions protecting trees to match current best 
practices;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapters 13.35 and 13.52 of the San Mateo Municipal Code are repealed.
Section 2. Chapter 13.40 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is adopted to read as follows:
Chapter 13.40
Protected Trees
Article I. General Provisions
13.40.010 Purpose and Intent
This Chapter is adopted because the City has been forested with a variety of healthy and valuable trees 
which must be protected and preserved for the health and welfare of residents and in order to preserve scenic 
beauty, maintain property values, prevent erosion, protect against flood hazards and landslides, counteract 
pollutants in the air, maintain climatic balance, decrease wind velocities, and relieve the public costs of installing 
and maintaining stormwater drainage systems. It is the intent of this chapter to establish regulations for the 
protection of trees within the City in order to retain as many trees as possible consistent with these purposes 
and the reasonable economic enjoyment of private property.
13.40.020 Applicability
(a) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to all persons or entities, including the City of San Mateo, or 
as specifically regulated under other provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code. 
(b) Exception for Planning Applications Other Than Single Family Dwelling Design Review Applications. A 
person or entity who has received approval of a planning application which is also subject to the landscape 
regulations contained in Chapter 27.71, need only obtain a site development permit pursuant to Chapter 23.40 
from the Planning Division for the removal and/or pruning of Protected Trees on the property proposed for 
development. 
9 of 36

--- page 10 ---
13.40.030 Definitions
Terms used in this chapter shall be defined as follows: 
(a) Administrative Guidelines means Director-approved regulations implementing this Chapter.
(b) Best Management Practices means the current edition of the International Society of Arboriculture 
(ISA) “Best Management Practices” publications.
(c) Certified Arborist means an arborist certified by the ISA.
(d) City Arborist means any Certified Arborist designated by the City to perform arborist functions on 
behalf of the City.
(e) City Manager means City Manager or his or her designee.
(f) Commission means the Park and Recreation Commission of the City.
(g) Damage means any act inconsistent with Best Management Practices, without prior approval from 
the City Arborist. “Damage” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Removal of bark greater than 3" across;
(2) Breaking, splitting or dislocation of the main trunk; 
(3) Cutting, ripping, or tearing of roots greater that 2 inches in diameter;
(4) Grade changes or soil compaction beneath the dripline;
(5) Any act compromising its future health or structural integrity;
(6) Any act detrimental to its overall aesthetics; 
(7) Pruning a tree incrementally within any three-year period for the purpose of staying below 
the 25% threshold, with a cumulative effect that harms the condition or aesthetics of the tree; or
(8) Any act inconsistent with Best Management Practices. 
(h) Construction Activity means any construction work associated with or requiring a permit for any 
new building, building addition, building demolition, grading, excavation or paving. This includes the necessary 
related activities which may or may not be shown on site plans, including but not limited to: storing/staging of 
materials, site access, parking, placement of temporary structures, debris disposal, additional excavation and 
landscaping.
(i) Director means the Director of Parks and Recreation or his or her designee.
(j) Heritage Tree means any of the following:
10 of 36

--- page 11 ---
(1) Any oak (Quercus spp.)  tree with a trunk that has a diameter of ten inches or more (31.4 
inches in circumference) measured at 54 inches above natural grade;
(2) Any other tree with a trunk diameter of fifteen inches (47.1 inches in circumference) or 
more, measured at 54 inches above natural grade. 
(3) Multi-stem trees. Trees with more than one stem (arising at or below 54 inches) shall be 
measured at the smallest diameter point below the main union of all stems unless the union occurs 
below grade, in which case each stem shall be measured as a stand-alone tree.  For oak trees, if one 
stem is ten inches or more in diameter, the tree will constitute one Heritage Tree.  For all other species, 
if one stem is fifteen inches or more in diameter, the tree will constitute one Heritage Tree. 
(4) Any tree or stand of trees designated by resolution of the City Council to be of special 
historical value or of significant community benefit; or
(5) A stand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others for survival.
(k) Managing Arborist means a Certified Arborist appointed by the Director to manage the City’s tree 
programs.
(l) Project Arborist means an ISA Certified Arborist designated to evaluate the potential impacts of 
Construction Activity on Protected Trees, write specifications for tree preservation, oversee Construction 
Activity within the dripline of Protected Trees and other necessary activities as determined by the City Arborist.
(m) Protected Tree means a Heritage Tree, a Street Tree, or a tree designated as protected as part of an 
approved Planning Application that is subject to Chapter 27.71;
(n) Prune means to remove any limb, branch, foliage, or root of a tree.
(o) Major Pruning means removal of more than one quarter of the crown or existing foliage of the 
Heritage Tree, or any root cutting within a radius of six times the trunk diameter, topping, or any other pruning 
that has the potential to negatively affect the condition of a tree as determined by the Managing Arborist in 
accordance with the current editions of the American National Standards Institute A-300 Best Management 
Practices.
(p) Remove means:
(1) Cutting to the ground, complete extraction, or killing by spraying, girdling, or any other 
means.
(2) A Protected Tree pruning permit will contain conditions for pruning. If pruning actually done 
is not in conformance with said conditions or without permit, it shall be deemed a removal.
(q) Replacement Value means the cost to replace a tree as determined by the City Arborist, utilizing the 
most recent edition of the Guide for Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers.
11 of 36

--- page 12 ---
(r) Street means "Public Right of Way" or all the land which has been dedicated, or condemned, or 
established by use for a public thoroughfare whether paved or unpaved, in whole or in part, except state 
highways and freeways.
(s) Street Tree means any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or stem capable of achieving 
ten feet or more in height, growing along or within public right of way or planted within public right of way or a 
designated planting easement; 
(t) Street Tree Master Plan means the document which designates species of trees which may be 
planted on each street by block. 
(u) Tree Protection Plan means a written plan for the preservation of Protected Trees approved by the 
City Arborist in compliance with this Chapter.
(v) Tree Protection Zone (TPZ) means the area surrounding a tree to be protected based upon tree 
species, age, health, soil, and proposed construction. The TPZ shall have a radius measured from the trunk equal 
to ten times the diameter of the trunk measured at 54” above grade or as otherwise specified by a project 
arborist and approved by the City Arborist.
Article II. Tree Planting 
13.40.040 Street Tree Planting 
(a) Designation of Street Tree Species. The Director shall designate those tree species existing or 
hereafter planted in the City which are not infested with pests or disease, or hazardous to the public health and 
safety or dangerous to public improvements and utilities as official Street Trees species. 
(b) The Director shall prepare and submit to the Commission for approval and adoption, a 
comprehensive master plan of Street Trees for all streets of the City where planting areas are available and 
provided for trees. The plan may be revised from time to time and shall be reviewed regularly. In accordance 
with the plan, the Director shall proceed each year to plant or remove and replace trees to the extent that funds 
are made available by the City Council or otherwise exist in the tree planting fund. 
13.40.050 Street Tree Planting Permit Required
No person, other than the Director or his or her authorized representative, shall plant any tree within a 
Street without first procuring a written permit to do so from the Director. The request for such a permit shall 
state the type and quantity of trees to be planted, the location, and such other information as may be required 
by the Director. 
13.40.060 Street Tree Planting Application
In processing an application for a permit, consideration shall be given to the following:
(a) Whether the planting is adaptable to the location proposed;
12 of 36

--- page 13 ---
(b) Whether the planting would involve a hazard to public improvements in the area;
(c) Whether the planting would unduly burden the City in any way with maintenance to prevent 
infestation and/or physical damage to persons or property;
(d) The qualifications of the person or organization proposed to perform the trimming or removal and 
the need for experienced personnel considering the type of tree, the location, and adjacent hazards;
(e) The aesthetic result of the proposed planting, trimming and/or removal as well as the benefits to the 
continued health of the planting and plantings in the immediate neighborhood; and
(f) Conformance with the City’s approved Street Tree Master Plan.
Article III. Tree Protection and Preservation
13.40.070 General
(a) Any person who owns, controls, has custody or possession of any real property within the City shall 
use reasonable efforts to maintain and preserve all Protected Trees located thereon in a state of good health, 
structure, and form pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
(b) The Director shall have the authority to adopt, modify, and implement Administrative Guidelines to 
support this Chapter.
13.40.080 Discretionary Development Approvals
(a) Any application for discretionary development approval for real property or for any other 
Construction Activity shall be accompanied by a signed statement by the property owner or authorized agent 
which discloses, and shows graphically in the site plans, whether any Protected Trees exist on the property or on 
any property within 30 feet of the proposed Construction Activity and describe on the plans associated with the 
application the location, species, trunk size, and drip line area.
(b) With regard to any tree required to be identified under section (a) above, any Construction Activity 
performed within a radius measured from the trunk equal to ten times the diameter of the tree trunk measured 
at 54” above grade shall require the preparation and submittal of a Tree Protection Plan for review and approval 
by the City Arborist prior to the issuance of any permit authorizing Construction Activity. The Tree Protection 
Plan shall be prepared by a Certified Arborist.
(c)  A Tree Protection Plan shall at a minimum include the following:
(1) The tree location and description (including species, size, condition, and replacement value if 
applicable) shown on the land survey or site plans.
(2) Limits of Construction Activity, including but not limited to demolition, grading and drainage, 
site and utility construction, and landscape plan.
13 of 36

--- page 14 ---
(3) Any project-specific tree protection specifications, based on Best Management Practices, in 
addition to the specifications required by the Ordinance.
(4) Prior to the commencement of any Construction Activity, all tree protection measures shall 
be properly installed including but not limited to tree protection fencing, trunk wrap, root buffer, etc. A 
six foot tall chain link fence shall be required. If the fencing cannot be placed at the dripline or if 
necessary Construction Activity must take place within the dripline, provisions must be made in the Tree 
Protection Plan by the Project Arborist to protect the soil within the dripline from compaction and to 
protect the trunk and branches from injury. The drip line shall not be altered in any way so as to 
increase the encroachment of the construction.
(5) Prohibit the following activities within the Tree Protection Zone (TPZ):
(A) Excavation, grading, soil deposit, drainage and leveling unless approved by the City 
Arborist.
(B) Disposal or depositing of oil, gasoline, chemicals, paints, solvents or other materials 
within the TPZ or in drainage channels, swales or areas that may lead to the drip line.
(C) Soil Compaction from heavy machinery and vehicles, storage of materials, structures, 
paving, etc. 
(D) Trenching or excavation to provide irrigation, utility lines, services, pipe, drainage or 
other improvements below grade.
(E) Storage of any materials or equipment of any kind. 
(F) Parking or driving vehicles or self-propelled equipment.
(G) Alteration of the drip line so as to increase the encroachment of the construction.
(6) Utility service and irrigation lines shall be located outside of the drip line or approved TPZ 
when feasible and, if not feasible, provisions must be made in the Tree Protection Plan by the Project 
Arborist to protect the soil within the dripline from compaction and to protect the trunk and branches 
from injury.
(7) Include provision for the retention of the services of a Project Arborist for periodic 
monitoring of the project site and the health of Protected Trees. The Project Arborist shall be present 
whenever activities occur which will pose a potential threat to the health of the Protected Trees or 
whenever any work needs to be done within the drip line of such tree.
(8) Include other provisions as deemed necessary by the City Arborist to preserve the Protected 
Trees and ensure compliance with those provisions.
14 of 36

--- page 15 ---
(9) Require that the City Building Official and Managing Arborist be notified whenever any 
damage or injury occurs to a Protected Tree during construction so that proper treatment may be 
administered.
(10) Contain the signature of the property owner and building permit applicant.
(11) The Project Arborist’s Tree Protection Plan shall be reproduced on one or more full-size 
sheets of the plan set. The plan set shall also contain a full-size scaled site plan showing the proposed 
work in relation to all Protected Trees, numbered as per the Tree Protection Plan, with accurate 
driplines, and the location of tree protection measures specified in the Project Arborist’s Tree Protection 
Plan, including but not limited to fencing, trunk wrap, soil protection, areas of excavation by hand, air or 
water. The site plan shall reference the sheet number(s) where the Tree Protection Plan can be found.
(d) Tree Protection Plan Review. The Tree Protection Plan shall be reviewed by the City Arborist. If the 
plan is sufficient to prevent harm to Protected Trees from reasonably foreseeable construction activities, it shall 
be approved and related building permits otherwise complete shall issue.
13.40.090 Pruning and Removal of Protected Trees –Permit Required.
(a) Heritage Trees. A permit from the Director is required before pruning or removing, or causing to be 
pruned or removed, either of the following:
(1) 25% of the crown; or
(2) Roots greater than one inch in diameter within a radius of six times the trunk diameter. 
(b) Street Trees. No person or entity, other than City staff shall prune or cause to be pruned, below or 
above the ground, or remove or cause to be removed, any Street Tree without first procuring a permit to do so 
from the Director. 
(c) Emergency Removal of Street Trees. All Street Trees presenting an immediate threat to health and 
safety, including obstructed public right-of-way, may be removed by the City without notice at the expense of 
the tree owner. 
Any franchised public utility or representative of the City may remove or prune Protected Trees which 
interfere with the safe and efficient operation of the public service for which they are responsible, but only to 
the extent made necessary by such interference. 
13.40.100 Pruning or Removal Permit Application 
(a) Tree Pruning and Removal for Projects Subject to Chapter 27.71 Planning Application Requirements.  
Projects for which planning application approval is required pursuant to Chapter 27.71 of the Municipal Code 
must comply with the conditions of approval related to Protected Trees.
(b) All Other Pruning and Removal of Protected Trees.  All other Protected Tree Pruning and Removal 
projects must be conducted in accordance with an approved Pruning or Removal Permit as set forth below:
15 of 36

--- page 16 ---
(c) Application form. The application for a permit shall be made on forms provided for this purpose and 
shall state, among other things, the number and location of the trees to be removed or pruned by types and the 
reason for removal or pruning of each. The request for such a permit may only be made by the owner or owners 
of the property on which the trees are located or for pruning by an adjacent property owner of Heritage Tree 
limbs extending onto that adjacent property, after notice of the application to the property owner where the 
Heritage Tree is located. Heritage Tree permits are valid for six months from date of issue. Extensions may be 
authorized by the Director. Pruning permit applications shall include pruning specifications prepared by a 
Certified Arborist in accordance with the most recent ANSI Standards and the ISA Best Management Practices 
publications.
(d) Decision by Managing Arborist. The Managing Arborist shall review each application and shall 
consider and evaluate the following in rendering a decision:
(1) Tree condition;
(2) Danger to people or property;
(3) Interference with existing structures or utilities;
(4) Necessity to remove the tree or trees in order to allow reasonable economic enjoyment of 
the property; 
(5) Effect of tree removal on erosion and soil retention;
(6) Effect of tree removal on neighborhood; and
(7) Number of trees a particular parcel can support in accordance with good forestry practices.
(e) In reviewing applications, the Managing Arborist shall give priority to those based on hazard. (S)he 
may refer any application to another department, committee, board or commission of the City for a report and 
recommendation or may require the applicant to supply a Certified Arborist's report.
(f) The cost of all work authorized by the permit shall be borne by the party securing the permit. 
13.40.150 Protected Tree Replacement. 
If a permit is granted for Protected Tree removal, the applicant shall at his or her election either replace 
the tree in accordance with the Administrative Guidelines or pay an in-lieu.  Permits for removal may contain 
direction on location and species. 
13.40.110 Notification
A decision by the Managing Arborist shall be rendered for each permit application. If a permit is 
approved, it will include conditions for the tree pruning or removal. With the exception of trees the Managing 
16 of 36

--- page 17 ---
Arborist determines to be dead or at imminent risk of failure, the Managing Arborist shall give written 
notification of a decision affecting a Heritage Tree to the applicant and abutting property owners and include a 
copy of the City’s appeal provisions. If such real property is occupied by other than the owner, a like copy shall 
also be left with the occupant. The failure of any property owner to receive the notice shall not affect the 
validity of any proceedings taken pursuant to the notice.
13.40.120 Appeal of Permit Decision.
(a) Appeal to Director. With the exception of decisions approving pruning or removal of Protected Trees 
determined to be dead or at imminent risk of failure by the Managing Arborist, decisions of the Managing 
Arborist may be appealed to the Director by submitting the City’s appeal form and payment of an appeal fee in 
accordance with the City’s master fee schedule. The appeal must be filed with the Director not later than five 
p.m. of the tenth calendar day after the Managing Arborist’s decision. The Director shall review the request and 
render a decision.
(b) Appeal of Director’s Decision. Any person may appeal the Director’s decision to the Park and 
Recreation Commission by filing an appeal in writing with the Director not later than five p.m. of the tenth 
calendar day after the decision and payment of an appeal fee in accordance with the City’s master fee schedule. 
The Director shall set the matter for review by the Commission at its next convenient regular meeting and 
provide notice by mail of the Commission hearing to the appellant and applicant at least five days prior thereto. 
The decision of the Commission shall be de novo.
(c) Appeal of Commission’s Decision. The Commission’s decision may be appealed to the City Council in 
the same manner as to the Commission by filing a written appeal and with the City Clerk not later than five p.m. 
of the tenth calendar day after the final decision and payment of an appeal fee in accordance with the City’s 
master fee schedule.  The City Clerk shall set the matter for hearing before the City Council at its next 
convenient regular meeting which is at least ten days after receipt of the appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be 
given the appellant and the applicant for permit by mail at least five calendar days prior to the date of the 
hearing. The decision of the City Council shall be de novo.
Article IV. Violations and Remedies
13.40.130 Violations.
(a) It is unlawful for any person or entity to prune or remove, or cause to be pruned or removed, a 
Protected Tree in the City without obtaining a permit to do so. This applies to any owner, possessor or manager 
of property who removes or allows or instructs another to remove a Protected Tree and to any other person, 
tree removal company or other entity that actually removes or participates in the removal of the Protected Tree. 
(b) It is unlawful for any person or entity to:
(1) cause damage to a Protected Tree compromising its health or structural integrity according 
to accepted industry standards;
(2) to cause damage that is severely detrimental to its overall aesthetics;
17 of 36

--- page 18 ---
(3) to remove fencing or other protective barrier surrounding a Protected Tree that was 
required as a condition of development on the property; 
(4) to violate any provisions of this Chapter or the terms of any permit or Tree Protection Plan 
issued in accordance with this Chapter; or
(5) knowingly or negligently providing false or misleading information in response to any 
disclosure requirements of this Chapter or in application for any permit issued under this Chapter.
(c) Citizen complaints regarding a potential violation must be received by the Managing Arborist within 
one year of the alleged violation.
(d) When a tree has been removed from the site and its diameter is no longer visible, the Managing 
Arborist may rely on a stump measurement and allow use of photographs, neighboring trees, and or any other 
available methods to determine the diameter of the tree that was removed.
13.40.140 Remedies
In all cases where Protected Trees are removed or damaged unlawfully, the Director may require 
replacement by anyone participating in an unlawful act as follows:
(a) Heritage Tree Removal.  Heritage Trees removed without a valid tree removal permit shall be 
replaced with one 48 inch box tree or the equivalent as set forth in the Administrative Guidelines.  Enhanced 
replant conditions may be imposed if the Managing Arborist determines that the value of the removed tree was 
greater than that of a 48 inch box tree. In such cases, the Managing Arborist shall determine the level of 
replacement, which may not exceed the tree’s Replacement Value. In addition to the requirements of this 
subsection, penalties in accordance with this Chapter or other sanctions allowed by law may be imposed for 
removal of Heritage Trees without a permit.
(b) Street Tree Removal.  Tree replacement shall be in accordance with the Street Tree Master Plan and 
shall be a maximum of one 48" box tree for each Street Tree removed, as determined in the discretion of the 
Director. Replacement, as determined by the Director, may be in a different location than the location from 
which removal occurred.
(c) Street Tree Pruning.  In the event Pruning of a Street Tree or other cause results in Damage to the 
tree compromising its health or structural integrity or is severely detrimental to its overall form, the Director 
may require replacement by the person or entity causing the Damage.
(d) If the Street Tree that is removed is a Heritage Tree, the provisions for replacement of Heritage Trees 
shall apply.
(e) Where the Director determines that replacement is not feasible and/or appropriate, the Director 
may:
(1) require that a payment of equal value to the cost of the purchase and installation of the 
replacement tree(s) be made to the City tree planting fund; or 
18 of 36

--- page 19 ---
(2) place other conditions on the permit which are of equal value to the cost of the purchase 
and installation of the replacement tree(s). 
(f) Additional Measures for All Protected Trees.  Any person causing damage to a Protected Tree shall be 
required to take such steps as may be required by the Director to assure the future vitality of the tree, including 
costs of treatment and/or construction of protective barriers, or if the Director determines that the damage is so 
great that the tree is no longer reasonably sustainable, replacement of the damaged tree.
13.40.150 Penalties.
(a) Penalties. In addition to the Reforestation requirements described above, if the Director finds that 
any person has violated any Hheritage Tree provisions of this Chapter, the Director may impose a penalty of up 
to $10,000 per participant per tree for such illegal act.
(b) In addition to all other remedies set forth in this code or otherwise provided by law, the following 
remedies shall be available to the City for violation of this Chapter:
(1) Any person or entity violating the provisions of this Chapter may be directed by the Building 
Official or inspector to stop work and to prepare a mitigation plan to correct the violation and mitigate 
the damage inflicted. Once the violation is corrected and mitigation implemented, the Building Official 
or inspector shall allow construction to resume. The mitigation plan shall be filed and approved by the 
City Arborist, agreed to in writing by the property owner(s) and either implemented or guaranteed by 
the posting of adequate bond or other security. The mitigation plan shall include measures for 
protection of any remaining Protected Trees on the property and shall provide for replacement of each 
tree removed or damaged on the property or at locations approved by the Director. The replacement 
ratio shall be determined by the Director according to the provisions of this Chapter.
(2) If a violation occurs in the absence of development, or while an application for a building 
permit or discretionary development approval for the lot upon which the tree is located is pending, the 
Building Official may condition the issuance of any building permit or approval upon the completion of a 
study, to be conducted by the City or consultant designated by the City, but in either case at the expense 
of the property owner, for the purpose of providing the City an opportunity to consider and determine 
appropriate mitigation measures for the tree removal and to insure measures are incorporated into any 
future development approvals for the property for the protection of any remaining Heritage Trees in the 
area.
(3) Administrative Citations may be issued under Chapter 1.10 of the Municipal Code.
(c) Appeal of Penalties or Replacement requirements. Any person required to provide replacement or 
assessed penalties shall have the right to appeal that determination to the City Manager by submitting a written 
appeal to the City Manager within 30 days of the date of the Managing Arborist’s written notice imposing the 
penalty.  The City Manager will hold an administrative hearing within 30 days of receipt of the written appeal 
and will render a written decision within 30 days of the administrative hearing. The decision of the City Manager 
shall be final.
19 of 36

--- page 20 ---
Section 3. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15061(b)(3), this action is not a project subject to CEQA because it is intended to protect 
existing trees and therefore will not significantly impact the environment.
Section 4. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 5. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 6. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective on July 1, 2021.
20 of 36

--- page 21 ---
1
PROTECTED TREES ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES
Revised 1/22/21
Background
These Administrative Guidelines are a companion document to supplement the Protected Tree 
Ordinance and support its implementation. The Guidelines are to be read with the Protected 
Tree Ordinance and are not intended to replace it.
Definitions
Section 13.52.030(i) defines heritage trees based on their size measured at 54 inches (4.5 feet) 
above grade. Permit applications must include this measurement, which may be stated as 
either diameter or circumference. See image below:
For trees with more than one stem (arising at or below 54 inches) the measurement shall be 
recorded at the smallest diameter point below the main union of all stems, unless the union 
occurs below grade. See image below:
If the union of the stems occurs below ground, only the largest stem measurement need be 
recorded. See image below:
[IMAGE NEEDED]
21 of 36

--- page 22 ---
2
Permits and decision-making criteria for tree removal
Applicants who submitted a tree permit application before July 1, 2021, will have their 
applications reviewed under the prior ordinance (13.35 or 13.52). The review process includes, 
but is not limited to tree replacement requirements, penalties, and the appeal process. 
Applications received on July 1, 2021 or later are subject to all provisions of the Protected Tree 
Ordinance 13.40.
The determination in granting or denying a permit is based on the criteria listed in Municipal 
Code Section 13.52.100(d), further articulated below:
1. Tree Condition. 
The tree is dead, or in a poor state of health that cannot be abated through reasonable 
arboricultural treatments.
2. Danger to People or Property. 
Tree risk assessment is a systematic process used to identify, analyze, and evaluate tree 
risk. Risk is assessed by categorizing the probability of an failure, the likelihood of 
impacting a target, and the severity of consequences should failure occur to determine 
a risk rating.  The International Society of Arboriculture (ISA) publishes best 
management practices for assessing tree risk. An arborist’s report from an ISA Qualified 
Tree Risk Assessor is recommend and may be required for tree permits requested based 
on risk. The report should provide evidence that the tree risk rating cannot be mitigated 
to a low residual risk rating through pruning, cabling, or other means.
3. Interference with existing structures or utilities. 
The City expects property owners to make reasonable efforts to mitigate conflicts with 
protected trees. Example mitigation activities include but are not limited to:

Root pruning and installation of a root barrier to prevent damage from roots.

Relocation of low-voltage wires

Replacement of sewer lateral system to eliminate root intrusion due to 
outdated, leaky plumbing.
If it can be demonstrated that mitigation options are infeasible or inappropriate, a 
permit may be issued.
4. Necessity to remove the tree or trees in order to allow reasonable economic 
enjoyment of the property. 
This criterion applies primarily to the construction of dwellings or amenities. The City 
expects residents to consider alternative designs that could preserve the tree. If it can 
be demonstrated that alternative designs are infeasible or inappropriate, a permit may 
be issued.
22 of 36

--- page 23 ---
3
5. Effect of tree removal on erosion and soil retention.
6. Effect of tree removal on the area. 
7. Number of trees a particular parcel can adequately support according to good forestry 
practices.
13.52.050 Protected Tree Replacement. 
Protected trees removed with a valid permit must be replaced based on their size and 
condition. Street trees shall be replaced with one 24” box tree of a species assigned by the 
Managing Arborist in accordance with the Street Tree Master Plan. Heritage Trees removed 
with a valid permit shall be replaced with a tree species from the official replant list according 
to the schedule below:
Trunk Diameter
Reforestation Requirement
In Lieu Fee*
Dead (any size)
(1)  15-gallon tree
$425 
10 to 30 inches
(1)  24-inch box tree 
OR
(1) 15-gallon tree from "Preferred" Category
$650 
> 30 inches
(1) 24-inch box tree
OR
(2) 15-gallon trees from "Preferred" 
Category
$800
*In lieu fees listed above are accurate as of 7/1/21. Fees are updated annually and may differ 
from those listed above. The most current fees can be found in the City’s fees schedule.
Applicants have six months from the date of the permit to complete the required reforestation 
or remit the in-lieu fee. A deposit in the amount of the in-lieu fee may be taken at the time of 
permit issuance. The deposit will be returned upon satisfaction of the planting requirement. 
Official Replant List
Heritage Trees must be replaced with a species from the list below:
[INSERT TREE LIST, INCLUDING SHORTER LIST OF “PREFERRED” TREES]
23 of 36

--- page 24 ---
4
13.52.140 Remedies
Protected Trees removed without a valid permit are to be replaced with one 48-inch box tree. If 
the value of the tree removed is greater than that of a 48 inch box tree, The Managing Arborist 
may impose enhanced replant conditions not to exceed the value of the tree(s). If the 
Managing Arborist determines that replanting of the assigned replacement trees is infeasible, 
s/he may allow a combination of planting or monetary equivalencies. The monetary 
equivalencies are based on the cost to purchase and install trees of commonly available sizes.
ONE 48 inch box  =  TWO 36 inch boxes  =  FOUR 24 inch boxes  =  $2,500
24 of 36

--- page 25 ---
Chapter 13.52 
HERITAGE TREES 
13.52.010 INTENT—PURPOSE. 
This chapter is adopted because the City has been forested with a variety of healthy and 
valuable trees which must be protected and preserved, the preservation and reforestation of which is 
necessary for the health and welfare of the citizens of this city in order to preserve the scenic beauty; 
maintain property values; prevent erosion of topsoil; protect against flood hazards and the risk of 
landslides; counteract the pollutants in the air; maintain the climatic balance and decrease wind 
velocities; and relieve the public costs of installing and maintaining stormwater drainage systems. To 
this end it is reasonable to expect property owners to maintain their trees in a satisfactory condition to 
keep the City of San Mateo as a sylvan place to live. 
It is the intent of this chapter to establish regulations for the protection, removal and 
preservation of heritage trees within the City in order to retain as many trees as possible consistent with 
the purpose hereof and the reasonable economic enjoyment of private property. 
13.52.020 DEFINITION. 
Terms used in this chapter shall be defined as follows: 
(a) Heritage tree is any of the following: 
(1) Any bay (Umbellularia californica), buckeye (Aesculus spp.), oak (Quercus spp.), 
cedar (Cedrus) or redwood (Sequoia) tree that has a diameter of ten (10) inches or more 
measured at forty-eight (48) inches above natural grade; 
(2) Any tree or stand of trees designated by resolution of the City Council to be of 
special historical value or of significant community benefit; 
(3) A stand of trees, the nature of which makes each dependent on the others for 
survival; 
(4) Any other tree with a trunk diameter of sixteen (16) inches or more, measured at 
forty-eight (48) inches above natural grade. 
(b) Remove. 
(1) Cutting to the ground, complete extraction, or killing by spraying, girdling, or any 
other means of a heritage tree. 
(2) A heritage tree pruning permit will contain conditions for pruning. If pruning actually 
done is not in conformance with said conditions or without permit, it shall be deemed a 
removal. 
25 of 36

--- page 26 ---
(c) Prune. Removal of more than one quarter of the crown or existing foliage of the heritage 
tree, or more than one third of the root system. 
(d) Director. The Director of Parks and Recreation or designee. 
(e) Replacement Value. Replacement Value for the purposes of this chapter shall be determined 
utilizing the most recent edition of the Guide for Plant Appraisal, published by the Council of Tree and 
Landscape Appraisers. 
(f) Damage. Damage to a heritage tree shall mean the removal of bark greater than 3" across, 
the breaking or splitting of the main trunk, or the dislocation of the main trunk or any act compromising 
its health or structural integrity according to accepted industry standards or to cause damage that is 
severely detrimental to its overall aesthetics. 
(g) Tree Protection Plan. A Tree Protection Plan is one that is in compliance with Section 
13.52.025(c). 
(h) City Arborist. The City Arborist is any certified arborist designated by the Director of Parks 
and Recreation. 
(i) Development Project. Any exterior construction work associated with or requiring a building 
permit for any new building, building addition, building demolition, site grading, excavation or site 
paving. 
(j) Certified Arborist. An arborist certified by the International Society of Arboriculture. 
13.52.025 TREE PROTECTION AND PRESERVATION. 
Any person who owns, controls, has custody or possession of any real property within the City 
shall use reasonable efforts to maintain and preserve all heritage trees located thereon in a state of 
good health, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. 
(a) Any application for discretionary development approval for real property or for any other 
Development Project shall be accompanied by a signed statement by the property owner or authorized 
agent which discloses whether any heritage trees exist on the property and describes on the plans 
associated with the application the location of each such tree, its species, trunk size and drip line area. In 
addition, the location of any tree within thirty feet of the area proposed for construction that is within 
the public right-of-way shall be shown on the plans and identified by species. 
(b) With regard to any tree required to be identified under section (a) above, (hereafter 
"protected tree"), any exterior construction work associated with any Development Project performed 
within a radius measured from the trunk center equal to ten times the diameter of the tree trunk 
measured at 4' above grade shall require the preparation and submittal of a Tree Protection Plan for 
26 of 36

--- page 27 ---
review and approval by the City Arborist prior to the issuance of any permit for a Development Project. 
The Tree Protection Plan shall be prepared by a certified arborist. 
(c) A Tree Protection Plan shall at a minimum include the following requirements: 
(1) Prior to the commencement of any Development Project, a chain link fence shall be 
installed at the drip line of any protected tree which will be affected by the construction and 
shall prohibit the storage of any construction materials, equipment or other materials inside the 
fence. The drip line shall not be altered in any way so as to increase the encroachment of the 
construction. 
(2) Prohibit excavation, grading, soil deposit, drainage and leveling within the drip line 
unless approved by the City Arborist. 
(3) Prohibit disposal or depositing of oil, gasoline, chemicals, paints, solvents or other 
materials within the drip line or in drainage channels, swales or areas that may lead to the drip 
line. 
(4) Prohibit the attachment of wires, signs and ropes to any protected tree. 
(5) Utility service and irrigation lines shall be located outside of the drip line when 
feasible. 
(6) Include provision for the retention of the services of a certified arborist for periodic 
monitoring of the project site and the health of protected trees. The arborist shall be present 
whenever activities occur which will pose a potential threat to the health of the protected trees 
or whenever any work needs to be done within the drip line of such tree. 
(7) Include other provisions as deemed necessary by the City Arborist to preserve the 
protected tree and insure compliance with those provisions. 
(8) Require that the City Building Official be notified whenever any damage or injury 
occurs to a protected tree during construction so that proper treatment may be administered. 
(9) Contain the signature of the property owner and building permit applicant. 
(d) Tree Protection Plan Review. The Tree Protection Plan described in Section (c), above, shall 
be reviewed by the City Arborist. If the plan is sufficient to prevent harm to protected trees from 
reasonably foreseeable construction activities, it shall be approved and related building permits 
otherwise complete shall issue. 
27 of 36

--- page 28 ---
13.52.030 VIOLATIONS. 
(a) It is unlawful for any person or entity to remove, or cause to be removed any heritage tree 
from any property in the City without obtaining a permit to do so. This applies to any owner, possessor 
or manager of property who removes or allows or instructs another to remove a heritage tree and to 
any other person, tree removal company or other entity that actually removes or participates in the 
removal of the heritage tree. 
(b) Exception. In case of emergency when a tree is hazardous or dangerous to life or property it 
may be removed by order of any member of the police or fire departments. Provided further, that any 
franchised public utility or representative of the City may remove or prune trees which interfere with 
the safe and efficient operation of the public service for which they are responsible, but only to the 
extent made necessary by such interference. Subject to the provisions of Chapter 7.24 and 13.35, trees 
not covered by this chapter may be removed without permit. 
(c) It is unlawful for any person or entity to cause damage to a heritage tree compromising its 
health or structural integrity according to accepted industry standards or to cause damage that is 
severely detrimental to its overall aesthetics or to remove fencing or other protective barrier 
surrounding a heritage tree that was required as a condition of development on the property or to 
violate the terms of any Tree Protection Plan. 
(d) Any violation of the terms of this chapter or any permit issued under this chapter is unlawful. 
Knowingly or negligently providing false or misleading information in response to any disclosure 
requirements of this chapter or in application for any permit issued under this chapter, shall constitute a 
violation of this chapter and is unlawful. 
13.52.040 REMOVAL—PERMIT. 
Any person or entity desiring to remove or prune one or more heritage trees shall apply to the 
Director for a permit. The application for a permit shall be made on forms provided for this purpose and 
shall state, among other things, the number and location of the trees to be removed or pruned by types 
and the reason for removal or pruning of each. The request for such a permit may only be made by the 
owner or owners of the property on which the trees are located or for pruning by an adjacent property 
owner of heritage tree limbs extending onto that adjacent property, after notice of the application to 
the property owner where the heritage tree is located. Heritage tree permits are valid for six months 
from date of issue. Extensions may be authorized by the Director. The applicant may submit an 
arborist's report with the permit application to show cause for removal or pruning. Pruning permit 
applications shall include pruning specifications prepared by a certified arborist. 
The Director shall review each application and shall consider and determine the following in 
rendering a decision: 
(a) The condition of the tree or trees with respect to disease, danger of falling, proximity to 
existing or proposed structures and interference with utility services; 
28 of 36

--- page 29 ---
(b) The necessity to remove the tree or trees in order to construct any proposed improvements 
to allow reasonable economic enjoyment of the property. 
(c) The topography of the land and the effect of the removal of the tree on erosion, soil 
retention and diversion or increased flow of surface waters. 
(d) The number of trees existing in the neighborhood on improved property and the effect the 
removal would have on the established standard of the area and property value. 
(e) The number of trees the particular parcel can adequately support according to good 
arboricultural practices. 
In reviewing applications, the Director shall give priority to those based on hazard or danger of disease. 
(S)he may refer any application to another department, committee, board or commission of the City for 
a report and recommendation or may require the applicant to supply a certified arborist's report. 
13.52.050 REFORESTATION. 
Permits for heritage tree removal, removals without permits and causing damage to heritage 
trees shall require replanting conditions in accordance with the following guidelines: 
(a) Trees removed under jurisdiction of a planning approval pursuant to Chapter 27.71 shall 
conform with the replacement conditions specified in the planning approval. 
(b) Trees removed with a valid tree removal permit shall be replaced in accordance with the 
direction of the Director. Replacement direction shall include direction on the location and species of 
the replacement tree. Tree replacement shall be one 24" box size tree approved by the Director, for 
each tree removed. 
(c) Trees removed without a valid tree removal permit shall be replaced by a 48" box size tree 
for each tree removed. Enhanced replant conditions may be imposed if it is determined by the Director 
that the value of the removed tree was significantly greater than that of a 48" box tree. In such cases, 
the determination of the level of replacement shall be within the discretion of the Director, but shall not 
exceed the actual tree loss as determined by the Replacement Value. In addition to the requirements of 
this subsection, penalties under Section 13.52.055 or other sanctions allowed by law may be imposed 
for removal of heritage trees without a permit. 
(d) Where the Director determines that replanting is not feasible and/or appropriate, e.g., 
sufficient trees exist on site, the Director (1) may require that a payment of equal value to the cost of 
the purchase and installation of the replacement tree(s) be made to the City tree planting fund or (2) 
may place other conditions on the permit which are of equal value to the cost of the purchase and 
installation of the replacement tree(s). 
29 of 36

--- page 30 ---
(e) Any person causing damage to a heritage tree shall be required to take such steps as may be 
required by the Director to assure the future vitality of the tree, including costs of treatment and/or 
construction of protective barriers, or if the Director determines that the damage is so great that the 
tree is no longer reasonably sustainable, replacement of the damaged tree per subsection (c), above. 
13.52.055 REMEDIES. 
(a) Penalties. In addition to the Reforestation requirements described in Section 13.52.050(c)(e), 
if the Director finds that any person has violated this chapter by participating in any act constituting a 
violation under Section 13.52.030, the Director may impose a penalty of up to $5,000 per participant per 
tree for such illegal act. 
(b) In addition to all other remedies set forth in this code or otherwise provided by law, the 
following remedies shall be available to the City for violation of this chapter: 
(1) Any person or entity violating the provisions of this chapter may be directed by the 
Building Official or inspector to stop work and to prepare a mitigation plan to correct the 
violation and mitigate the damage inflicted. Once the violation is corrected and mitigation 
implemented, the Building Official or inspector shall allow construction to resume. The 
mitigation plan shall be filed and approved by the City Arborist, agreed to in writing by the 
property owner(s) and either implemented or guaranteed by the posting of adequate bond or 
other security. The mitigation plan shall include measures for protection of any remaining 
heritage trees on the property and shall provide for replacement of each tree removed or 
damaged on the property or at locations approved by the Director. The replacement ratio shall 
be determined by the Director according to the provisions of this chapter. 
(2) If a violation occurs in the absence of development, or while an application for a 
building permit or discretionary development approval for the lot upon which the tree is located 
is pending, the Building Official may condition the issuance of any building permit or approval 
upon the completion of a study, to be conducted by the City or consultant designated by the 
City, but in either case at the expense of the property owner, for the purpose of providing the 
City an opportunity to consider and determine appropriate mitigation measures for the tree 
removal and to insure measures are incorporated into any future development approvals for the 
property for the protection of any remaining heritage trees in the area. 
(3) Administrative Citations may be issued under Chapter 1.10 of the Municipal Code. 
13.52.060 APPLICABILITY. 
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all persons or entities, including the City of San 
Mateo, or as specifically regulated under other provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code. A person or 
entity who has received approval of a planning application which is also subject to the landscape 
regulations contained in Chapter 27.71, need only obtain a site development permit pursuant to 
30 of 36

--- page 31 ---
Chapter 23.40 from the planning division for the removal and/or pruning of heritage trees on the 
property proposed for development. 
13.52.070 NOTIFICATION. 
A decision by the Director shall be rendered for each permit application. If a permit is approved, 
it will include conditions for the tree removal in accordance with Section 13.52.050. The Director shall 
give written notification of the decision to the applicant and abutting property owners and include 
therein a copy of Section 13.52.080. If such real property is occupied by other than the owner, a like 
copy shall also be left with the occupant. The failure of any property owner to receive the notice shall 
not affect the validity of any proceedings taken pursuant to the notice. 
13.52.080 APPEAL. 
(a) Permit Applications. Any person may request the Director to reconsider the decision on a 
permit application made under this chapter. Such a request shall be in writing, signed by the person 
making the request, state the reasons the request is made and be filed with the Director not later than 
five p.m. of the tenth calendar day after the decision. The Director shall review the request and render a 
decision. 
Any person may appeal the reconsidered decision of the Director to the Park and Recreation 
Commission by filing an appeal in writing with the Director not later than five p.m. of the tenth calendar 
day after the decision. The Director shall set the matter for review by the Commission at its next 
convenient regular meeting and provide notice by mail of the Commission hearing to the appellant and 
applicant at least five days prior thereto. The decision of the Commission shall be de novo. 
This decision may be appealed to the Council in the same manner as to the Commission by filing 
a written appeal with the City Clerk not later than five p.m. of the tenth calendar day after the final 
decision. 
If appealed, the City Clerk shall set the matter for hearing before the Council at the next 
convenient regular meeting thereof which is at least ten days after receipt of the appeal. Notice of the 
time of hearing shall be given the appellant and the applicant for permit by mail at least five calendar 
days prior to the date of the hearing. The decision of the Council shall be de novo. 
(b) Appeal of Penalties, Restrictions or Replacement requirements. Any person required to 
provide replacement under Section 13.52.050 or assessed penalties or restrictions under Section 
13.52.055 shall have the right to appeal that determination to the City Manager or designee using the 
procedures set forth in Chapter 1.11 of this Code. Notwithstanding the limitations set forth in that 
section regarding Civil Penalties, Civil Penalties under this chapter shall be limited to the amounts 
allowed under Chapter 13.52.055. 
31 of 36

--- page 32 ---
Chapter 13.35 
STREET TREES 
13.35.010 INTENT. 
This chapter is adopted for the following purposes: 
(a) To foster the planting of trees along the streets of the City; 
(b) To promote and maintain the aesthetic value of the streets of the City; 
(c) To provide an orderly and efficient means of maintaining and protecting trees along the 
streets of the City; 
(d) To promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort, and general welfare; 
(e) To define the powers and duties of the administrative officers and bodies as provided herein. 
13.35.020 DEFINITIONS. 
Terms used in this chapter shall be defined as follows or are as defined in Chapter 13.52: 
(a) "Center divider strip" means the center section of a street, whether set off by curbs or not 
and whether planted or not, which separates opposing traffic; 
(b) "Commission" means park and recreation commission of the City; 
(c) "Curbline" means the vertical face edge lines of the curb or pavement edge along a street if 
there is no vertical curb; 
(d) "Director" means the Director of Parks and Recreation or his or her designee. 
(e) "Hedge" means any plant material, shrub, or plant, when planted in a dense, continuous line 
or area, so as to form a thicket or barrier; 
(f) "Island". See center divider strip. 
(g) "Parking strip". See planting strip; 
(h) "Plant" means all plant material, annual or perennial, not necessarily hardy in nature, which 
are not a tree; 
(i) "Planting strip" means the area of the street lying between the curbline and the street line 
along any street, including the sidewalk; 
(j) "Private tree" means any tree planted on property not owned by city; 
32 of 36

--- page 33 ---
(k) "Public areas" means all parks, recreational facilities, and other areas and improvements 
thereon under the supervision and maintenance of the City; 
(l) The term "street" means "Public Right of Way" or all the land lying between abutting 
properties which has been dedicated, or condemned, or established by use for a public thoroughfare 
whether paved or unpaved, in whole or in part, except state highways and freeways. The term "street" 
includes all thoroughfares whether designated by that name or some other, such as avenue, way, 
boulevard or road, plus the surrounding Planting strips; 
(m) "Street line" means the line separating an abutting lot, piece or parcel from the street; 
(n) "Street Tree" means any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or stem achieving 
ten feet or more in height, growing along or within a street; planted within a street and/or designated 
planting easement; 
(o) "Street Tree Master Plan" means the document which designates species of trees which may 
be planted on each street by block. 
(p) "Trim" or "Trimming" means to remove any limb, branch, foliage or root of a Street Tree. 
13.35.030 NOTICES. 
All notices provided to be given by this chapter, unless otherwise directed, shall be in writing 
and caused to be mailed by the Director, postage paid, to the owner of the real property involved, as his 
or her name and address appear on the last equalized assessment roll for municipal taxes. If such real 
property is occupied by other than the owner, a like copy shall also be left with the occupant. The failure 
of any property owner to receive the notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken 
pursuant to the notice. 
13.35.040 APPEAL. 
Any person denied a permit under this chapter or required to provide replacement under 
Section 13.35.105 or assessed penalties or restrictions under Section 13.35.110 shall have the right to 
appeal that determination to the City Manager or designee using the procedures set forth in Chapter 
1.11 of this Code. Notwithstanding the limitations set forth in that section regarding Civil Penalties, Civil 
Penalties under this chapter shall be limited to the amounts allowed under Chapter 13.35.110. 
13.35.050 SUPERVISION. 
The supervision and management of the trees upon the streets and public areas within the City 
is vested in the Director and designated representatives, who with the advice and counsel of the 
Commission, will recommend for adoption by the City Council regulations for the setting out, planting, 
care, trimming, removal and maintenance of such trees pursuant to this chapter. It shall be the duty of 
the Director with the advice and counsel of the Commission, to cause the planting, trimming, pruning, 
spraying and caring for any official Street Tree according to the provisions of this chapter. 
33 of 36

--- page 34 ---
13.35.060 STREET TREES. 
The Director shall designate those trees species existing or hereafter planted in the City which 
are not infested with pests or disease, or hazardous to the public health and safety or dangerous to 
public improvements and utilities as official Street Trees species. 
The Director shall prepare and submit to the Commission for approval and adoption, a 
comprehensive master plan of Street Trees for all streets of the City where planting areas are available 
and provided for trees. The plan may be revised from time to time and shall be reviewed regularly. In 
accordance with the plan, the Director shall proceed each year to plant or remove and replace trees to 
the extent that funds are made available by the City Council or otherwise exist in the tree planting fund. 
13.35.070 PLANTING PERMIT. 
No person, other than the Director or his or her authorized representative, shall plant or set out 
any tree within the Public Right of Way without first procuring a written permit to do so from the 
Director. The request for such a permit shall state the type and number of trees to be planted or set out 
the location and such other information as may from time to time be required by the Director. 
13.35.080 TRIMMING AND REMOVAL—NOTICE AND PERMIT REQUIRED. 
No person or entity, other than the City staff, or any public utility corporation to the extent 
necessary for maintaining overhead wires, shall trim or cause to be trimmed, below or above the 
ground, or remove or cause to be removed, any tree in the planting strip along any street, or any tree 
growing upon private property to the extent that its roots or branches encroach on street, without first 
procuring a permit to do so from the Director. The request for such a permit shall state the type and 
number of trees to be trimmed or removed, the location and such other information as may from time 
to time be required by the Director. The cost of all work designated by the permit shall be borne by the 
party securing the permit. Permits for trimming and removal may, in the Director's discretion, contain 
replanting conditions. 
13.35.085 VIOLATIONS. 
It is unlawful for any person or entity to remove, trim, or damage to the extent described in 
Section 13.35.105(b), a Street Tree without having first obtained a permit to do so. This applies to any 
person who takes such action, or instructs another to take such action and to any tree removal 
company, landscape professional or other entity that initiates or participates in such unlawful act. 
13.35.090 PERMITS—APPLICATION. 
The permits provided in Sections 13.35.070 and 13.35.080 shall be issued by the Director and be 
subject to the terms of the permit and/or applicable regulations. 
In processing an application for a permit, consideration shall be given the following: 
(a) Whether the planting is adaptable to the location proposed; 
(b) Whether the planting would involve a hazard to public improvements in the area; 
34 of 36

--- page 35 ---
(c) Whether the planting would unduly burden the City in any way with maintenance to prevent 
infestation and/or physical damage to persons or property; 
(d) The qualifications of the person or organization proposed to perform the trimming or 
removal and the need for experienced personnel considering the type of tree, the location, and adjacent 
hazards; 
(e) The aesthetic result of the proposed planting, trimming and/or removal as well as the 
benefits to the continued health of the planting and plantings in the immediate neighborhood. 
13.35.100 EMERGENCY REMOVAL OF STREET TREES. 
All Street Trees presenting an immediate threat to life, property, or the condition of public 
improvements, may be removed by the City without notice. In such event, the total cost of the removal 
shall be borne by the City unless the threat was caused by an illegal or negligent act of another and in 
that event the responsible party shall remain liable. 
13.35.105 PLANTING—REPLACEMENT OF REMOVED/DAMAGED TREES. 
In all cases where Street Trees are removed or damaged to the extent described in subsection 
(b) below, the Director may require replacement by anyone participating in an unlawful act, as defined 
in section 13.35.085, or the permittee, in accordance with the following: 
(a) Tree replacement shall be in accordance with the Street Tree Master Plan and shall be a 
maximum of a 48" box tree for each Street Tree removed, as determined in the discretion of the 
Director, depending on the value of the tree removed and whether the removal was in violation of this 
chapter. Replacement, as determined by the Director may be in a different location than the location 
from which removal occurred. 
(b) In the event Trimming of a Street Tree or other cause results in damage to the tree 
compromising its health or structural integrity or is severely detrimental to its overall aesthetics, the 
Director may require replacement by the person or entity causing the damage. 
(c) If the Street Tree that is removed is a heritage tree, the provisions for replacement of 
heritage trees shall apply in the discretion of the Director. 
(d) Where the Director determines that replacement is not feasible and/or appropriate, the 
Director (1) may require that a payment of equal value to the cost of the purchase and installation of the 
replacement tree(s) be made to the City tree planting fund or (2) may place other conditions on the 
permit which are of equal value to the cost of the purchase and installation of the replacement tree(s). 
13.35.110 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES. 
(a) Penalties. In addition to the replacement requirements described in Section 13.35.105, if the 
Director finds that any person or entity has violated this chapter by participating in any act constituting a 
35 of 36

--- page 36 ---
violation under section 13.35.085 of this chapter, the Director may impose a penalty of up to $5,000 per 
participant per tree for such unlawful act. 
(b) In addition to all other remedies set forth in this code or otherwise provided by law, the 
following remedies shall be available to the City for violation of this chapter: 
(1) Anyone violating the provisions of this chapter may be directed by the Building 
Official or other inspector to stop work conducted under a City permit on either public or private 
property when such work caused or contributed to the violation and to prepare a mitigation 
plan to correct the violation and mitigate the damage inflicted. Once the violation is corrected 
and mitigation implemented, the Building Official or other inspector shall allow construction to 
resume. The mitigation plan shall be filed and approved by the City Arborist, agreed to in writing 
by the property owner(s) and either implemented or guaranteed by the posting of adequate 
bond or other security. The mitigation plan shall include measures for protection of any 
remaining Street Trees or heritage trees on the property or in the adjacent right-of-way and 
shall provide for replacement of each tree removed or damaged at locations approved by the 
Director. The replacement ratio shall be determined by the Director according to the provisions 
of this chapter. 
(2) If a violation occurs in the absence of development, or while an application for a 
building or encroachment permit or discretionary development approval is pending in the area 
of either public or private property affected by the violation, the Building Official or other 
inspector may condition the issuance of any building or encroachment permit or planning 
approval upon the completion of a study, to be conducted by the City or consultant designated 
by the City, at the expense of the property owner, for the purpose of providing the City an 
opportunity to consider and determine appropriate mitigation measures for any tree removal 
and to insure measures are incorporated into any future development approvals for the 
property for the protection of any remaining Street Trees or heritage trees in the affected area. 
(3) Administrative Citations may be issued under Chapter 1.10 of the Municipal Code. 
36 of 36