source: packet.pdf
sha256: 2d32b983c68638f4b704fb5b89f3baba86f0cd934facfaac46c17fc8e7c430eb
pages: 282
ocr_pages: 8
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
March 15, 2021
7:00 PM
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Joe Goethals
Amourence Lee
Diane Papan
AGENDA
DUE TO THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA’S DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY – THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO
AUTHORIZATION FROM GOVERNOR NEWSOM’S EXECUTIVE ORDERS –
CITY COUNCIL AND COMMISSION MEETINGS ARE NO LONGER OPEN TO IN-PERSON ATTENDANCE.
ANYONE CAN WATCH AND PROVIDE COMMENTS REMOTELY IN THE WAYS DESCRIBED AT THE END OF THE AGENDA.
To join via Zoom – click here: Monday, March 15, 2021 Zoom Meeting
To join via telephone: (408) 638-0968
Conference ID: 857 9656 0543
Passcode: 864271
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CEREMONIAL
1.
Red Cross Month – Proclamation
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
2.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special meeting of February 27, 2021 and Special and Regular meetings
of March 1, 2021.
3.
Ordinance Adoption – Zoning Code Amendments
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapters 27.04, “Definitions” to add a paving
definition; Chapter 27.18, “R1 Districts - One Family Dwelling” to clarify limits on paving, landscaping, uncovered
decks, and add a map for San Mateo Park Planning Area; Chapter 27.20 “R2 Districts – Two Family Dwellings” to
replace the Floor Area Ratio maps; and Chapter 27.32 “C2 Districts – Regional/Community Commercial” to update
emergency shelter provisions.
4.
Ordinance Adoption – COVID-19 Hazard Pay for Large Grocery Store and Large Drugstore Workers
Adopt an Ordinance to require large grocery stores and large drugstores to provide hazard pay to their public
facing employees.
1 of 282

--- page 2 ---
5.
Tenant Relocation Payments – Appropriation of Funds
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $67,976 of property owner repayments to the Emergency Tenant Relocation
Assistance Project.
6.
School Crossing Guard Services – Agreement
Approve an agreement with the San Mateo-Foster City School District for school crossing guards for the 2021-22
school year in the amount of $78,000 and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially
the form presented.
7.
Parking Enforcement Services - Agreement
Adopt a Resolution to use an alternative purchasing method to approve the execution of an agreement with LAZ
Parking California, LLC for citywide parking enforcement services in the amount of $2,034,004 and authorize the
Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
8.
Interim Community Benefit Framework for Future Development Projects – Interim Process
Adopt a Resolution to document the interim process for determining community benefits and public
improvements for certain development projects.
9.
San Mateo Police Department Mindfulness Project – Agreement and Appropriation
Approve an agreement with Mindfulness Based Health for mindfulness training for the San Mateo Police
Department in the amount of $105,000; authorize the Police Chief to execute the agreement in substantially the
form presented; and adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $105,000 with a net
zero impact to the General Fund.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
City Council action on the following public hearing(s) represents a final decision concluding all administrative proceedings. Judicial
review may be had only if a petition is filed with the Court not later than the 90th day following the date the decision is made. Judicial
review of environmental determinations may be subject to a time period for litigation as short as 30 days following the date the
decision is made.
10.
Fiscal Year 2021-22 Comprehensive Fee Schedule – Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve the proposed fiscal year 2021-22 Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
11.
Ordinance Introduction – Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit Updates
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory Dwelling Unit and
Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” in accordance with changes to State law and “Junior
Accessory Dwelling Unit” definition.
2 of 282

--- page 3 ---
OLD BUSINESS
12.
COVID-19 Update
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and
regulations issued by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared
emergency.
13.
Markers for Places of Public Interest in the Public Right of Way – Resolution and Ordinance Introduction
Approve a Resolution to adopt a policy on Markers for Places of Public Interest in the Public Right of Way and
introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.08.020 "Placing Certain Objects in
the Public Right of Way" to allow for public markers and making other necessary minor revisions to the chapter.
NEW BUSINESS
14.
Housing Successor Agency and Housing Element Annual Progress Reports – Approval
Approve the Housing Successor Agency Report and the Housing Element Annual Progress Report as submitted to
the State Department of Housing and Community Development.
15.
County of San Mateo Homelessness Initiatives
Receive an informational report on the County of San Mateo's strategic initiatives to address homelessness and
its consideration of the purchase of two motels in San Mateo.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
CLOSED SESSION
The public will have an opportunity to comment before the Council’s consideration of this item. Following the meeting a report of
action from Closed Session will be provided if required.
16.
Conference with Labor Negotiator (Gov. Code section 54957.6)
City designated representatives: Teri Black and Suzanne Mason, Recruiting Consultants, Teri Black & Company LLC
Unrepresented employee: City Attorney
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on
Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream
[continue on next page]
3 of 282

--- page 4 ---
PUBLIC COMMENTS – Can be received in the following ways (Time limits will apply) :
Prior to the meeting in writing: Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting by computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default.
When the item of interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
During the meeting by telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your
comments.
[continue on next page]
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 282

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4257-03
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special meeting of February 27, 2021 and the Special and Regular meetings of 
March 1, 2021.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Special Meeting Minutes 2/27/21
Att 2 – Special Meeting Minutes 3/1/21
Att 3 – Regular Meeting Minutes 3/1/21
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
5 of 282

--- page 6 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 02/22/2021
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Saturday, February 27, 2021
Remote 8:30 AM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Roll Call
 
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee and Goethals
CLOSED SESSION
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, Council convened into closed session to consider:
2.
Public Employee Appointment - Interviews
Title:  City Attorney
ADJOURNMENT - The meeting adjourned at 1:00 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
6 of 282

--- page 7 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 03/01/2021
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, March 1, 2021
Remote 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Roll Call
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee and Goethals joined 
meeting at 5:40 pm
STUDY SESSION 
1.
Campaign Contribution Limits Review
City Attorney Shawn Mason provided an overview on the City’s campaign contribution code and highlighted some 
issues that arose in this past election with regard to nonmonetary contributions and contributions controlled by 
individuals. He outlined how the City’s law differs from the state law. He noted that the municipal code requires 
the Council to review the campaign contribution limitations three months after the election certification. Council 
was asked to provide direction on options including: repeal the City’s campaign regulations; provide direction on 
the handling of nonmonetary contributions, aggregating contributions by individuals and related entities, 
disclosure of contributions by donor location and voluntary expenditure limits. 
Council asked questions of staff. 
Public Comment – Mike Dunham, a City Council candidate in Burlingame, spoke in favor of cutting the campaign 
contribution limit to a lower amount. Erin Kazur, President of Peninsula Young Democrats, stated that regulations 
around campaign contributions ensures more diversity as younger participants have more opportunities. Carol 
Steinfeld spoke in support of reviewing the regulations for more equitable democracy. Elizabeth Weal, League of 
Women Voters (LWV), noted the LWV is conducting a study of local campaign ordinances. Sarah Fields noted the 
opportunity to model the ordinance similar to Mountain View, which has a spending cap. Jordan Grimes spoke in 
support of increasing campaign finance reform and campaign transparency measures modeled on Mountain View 
and Santa Clara. 
Council Members shared their thoughts. Council Member Lee noted the need for a more transparent, equitable, 
and trusted process. She supports regulations clarifying non-monetary contributions and noted they should be 
capped at the same level as contributions. She is in favor of following the same structure as the state regulations 
and only allowing one donor per organization. She is in support of reporting contribution by location and likes the 
dashboard of data idea. She strongly supports a voluntary expenditure limit and noted this may need another 
study session to give Council time to thoughtfully consider all the options. She noted Mountain View’s ordinance 
as a good model.
Deputy Mayor Bonilla stated his strong support of Lee’s recommendations noting the need to level the playing 
field and remove the perception of undue influence in the electoral process. He does not want to repeal the 
ordinance; rather make adjustments to it to enhance transparency, noting nonmonetary contributions need to be 
7 of 282

--- page 8 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 03/01/2021
Page 2
limited and capped, he is in support of tracking contributions by location and is in favor of voluntary expenditure 
limits. 
Council Member Goethals was generally in favor of comments made and noted the biggest influencer is 
Independent Expenditures, which cannot be limited noting it is a loophole that is not regulated at all by the City. 
He is concerned with special interests having undue influence by allowing unfettered contributions. 
Council Member Papan concurs with Goethals comments regarding Independent Expenditures and noted raising 
funds for public office is difficult, and that direct campaign donations allow a candidate to reach voters in a more 
transparent way. She is concerned that regulating too much will exacerbate independent expenditures and result 
in unintended consequences. Having the candidate fundraise directly allows them to reach out to voters directly 
in the most transparent way. She cited concerns with tracking where the money comes from as resulting in 
candidate limiting consequences. 
Council Member Rodriguez stated he strongly supports most of the reforms proposed, noting the need to remove 
the loophole in nonmonetary contributions and the need to aggregate individuals and related entities will make 
reporting easier and more transparent. He noted that if disclosure of contributions by donor location is pursued, it 
should be Bay Area versus non-Bay Area as local politics are regional. He noted concern with weaponizing 
reporting as a consequence of our rules and does not want to add any bureaucracy to a candidate. He supports 
voluntary spending limits and has some concern about increasing Political Action Committee monies to local 
elections and overall feels the pros of spending limits outweigh the negatives. 
2.
Billboards on City-owned Property – Consider Options
City Attorney Shawn Mason provided an update on the issue of allowing billboards on City property. He shared 
information on San Carlos’ billboard ordinance and outlined case law. He noted that options include: doing 
nothing, adopt a program modeled on San Carlos’ program and highlighted the legal risk, or pursuing California 
Business and Professions (B&P) Code 5412 to negotiation with billboard owner to relocate existing billboards to 
City property. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – there were no speakers. Council provided 
comments.
Council Member Lee would like to consider where there may be other opportunities for billboards. Council 
Member Goethals proposed regulating where billboards can be due to safety concerns and proposed only 
allowing along freeway 101 and 92 with limits on placement in residential neighborhoods, and a requirement that 
placement must be a minimum of 1,000 feet apart. Deputy Mayor Bonilla stated Goethals ideas are interesting 
and present a concrete idea of possibilities and he proposes grandfathering in existing billboards or move to one 
of the newly designated spots and upgrade the billboards and noted he is in favor of a combination of San Carlos’ 
ordinance and using the B&P code.
City Attorney Mason noted staff will identify standards that would be used to determine where signs could be 
placed that protects safety as well as aesthetics and that the safest approach is for the owner to enter into a lease 
to place a billboard on that property and he will pursue B&P code concurrently. Staff has more to do flush this out 
further. 
ADJOURNMENT - The meeting adjourned at 6:51 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
8 of 282

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 03/01/2021
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor
Rick Bonilla, Deputy Mayor
Diane Papan
Amourence Lee
Joe Goethals
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
Monday, March 1, 2021
Remote 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER This meeting is being held under the provisions of State of California Governor Gavin Newsom’s 
Executive Order N-29-20; in which Brown Act regulations are relaxed to allow members to remote in due to the 
Coronavirus Covid-19 health emergency.
Roll Call
 
Remote:    Mayor Rodriguez, Deputy Mayor Bonilla, Council Members: Papan, Lee, and Goethals
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 1 through 5 were considered to be routine by the City Council. After the titles of the items were 
read by the City Clerk, the public was invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Bonilla 
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
 
1.
City Council Meeting Minutes – Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council Special and Regular meeting of February 16, 2021 and Special meeting of 
February 22, 2021.
2.
Emergency Ordinance – Suspension of Minimum Parking Requirements and Enforcement of Zoning Regulations 
for Outdoor Business Operations
Adopt an update to the Emergency Ordinance to temporarily suspend minimum parking requirements on private 
parking lots and enforcement of zoning regulations for outdoor business operations to allow schools, childcare 
facilities and other educational uses to operate outdoors during the COVID-19 public health emergency.
Enactment:  Emergency Ordinance 2021-07
3.
On-Call Construction Management Services – Spending Authorization Adjustment
Approve an adjustment to the year one annual not-to-exceed amount from $150,000 to $250,000 for the 
agreement with Ghirardelli Associates for on-call construction management services, with the total three-year 
agreement remaining at an amount not to exceed $450,000. 
4.
Emergency Fuel Facility Use – Agreement
Approve an agreement between the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department and the City of San Mateo for 
emergency fuel facility use and authorize the City Manager to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented. 
5.
Board and Commission Appointment Subcommittee – Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission
9 of 282

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 03/01/2021
Page 2
Appoint Mayor Rodriguez and Deputy Mayor Rick Bonilla to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission 
Appointment Subcommittee.
PUBLIC COMMENT - 
Kathleen commented on the need to elevate safety for pedestrians as a priority. 
PUBLIC HEARING
6.
Zoning Code Amendments – Ordinance Introduction
Principal Planner Julia Klein provided an overview of the need for zoning code updates due to changes in state 
law that the City is required to be in alignment with. Public Comment – There were no speakers.
Motion to introduce an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapters 27.04, “Definitions” to add 
a paving definition; Chapter 27.18, “R1 Districts - One Family Dwelling” to clarify limits on paving, landscaping, 
uncovered decks, and add a map for San Mateo Park Planning Area; Chapter 27.20 “R2 Districts – Two Family 
Dwellings” to replace the Floor Area Ratio maps; and Chapter 27.32 “C2 Districts – Regional/Community 
Commercial” to update emergency shelter provisions. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved: Papan, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
OLD BUSINESS
7.
COVID-19 Update; San Mateo County Restaurant, Brewery, and Winery Relief Program Funding Appropriation 
Consideration; and Extension of Local Emergency Proclamation
City Manager Drew Corbett provided an update on pandemic response activities and requested direction on 
providing grants through the San Mateo County Restaurant, Brewery, and Winery Relief Program and outlined the 
need for a continued local declaration of emergency. Council asked questions of staff. Public Comment – There 
were no speakers. 
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to appropriate funds from the General Fund’s unassigned fund balance in the 
amount of $300,000 to provide for grants for the San Mateo County Restaurant, Brewery, and Winery Relief 
Program; and in concurrent action Council confirmed the need for a continued local declaration of emergency. 
Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Papan, Seconded: Goethals
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 24 (2021)
8.
COVID-19 Hazard Pay for Large Grocery Store and Large Drugstore Workers – Consider Ordinances
City Attorney Shawn Mason updated the Council on legal actions with regard to the City’s exposure to a lawsuit if 
taking action since the Council last heard the item on February 16, 2021. Economic Development Manager Jennifer 
Chen outlined information and statistics about grocery stores in San Mateo that would be affected by the 
proposed Ordinance. Council asked questions of staff. 
10 of 282

--- page 11 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 03/01/2021
Page 3
Public Comment – speaking in support of the proposed ordinance: Leon Wong, UFCW5; John Gomez, grocery 
worker; Rich Hedges; Julie Lind, San Mateo Labor Council; Brian Keefer; Erin Chazer, San Mateo Central Labor 
Council; Ryan McGilley, UFCW; Adam Loraine and Kathleen. Speaking in opposition: Nick Buro. Mike Stone, owner 
of Mollie Stones, requested an exception for Mollie Stone due to measures they have already provided.
Council deliberated and directed staff to make the following modification to increase the threshold for number of 
employees to 750, include a four hour paid leave for vaccination appointments for employees, exemption for 
franchisees and Council is interested in adopting the emergency ordinance to go into effect immediately while 
simultaneously introducing a regular ordinance and bringing it forward for adoption on March 15th. 
Motion to Adopt an Emergency Ordinance, as amended by direction from Council, to require large grocery stores 
and large drugstores to provide hazard pay to their public facing employees and introduce an Ordinance to require 
large grocery stores and large drugstores to provide hazard pay to their public facing employees. Motion passed 
5-0.
Moved:
Goethals, Seconded: Bonilla
Ayes: 
Rodriguez, Bonilla, Lee, Papan and Goethals
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Emergency Ordinance 2021-08
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
The City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. Deputy 
Mayor Bonilla asked for support to agendize $5,000 for gun buy-back Lee, Bonilla, and Goethals in support. Mayor 
Rodriguez requested staff bring forward an ordinance to prevent boarding up windows without a need. Bonilla, Rodriguez 
and Papan were in favor. Mayor Rodriguez requested information be provided about the Caltrain Paralleling Station 
installation on El Camino Real.
ADJOURNMENT – The meeting adjourned at 8:32 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
                                                                                      
                                                           
Eric Rodriguez, Mayor                                                   
Patrice M. Olds, City Clerk
11 of 282

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4312-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – Zoning Code Amendments
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapters 27.04, “Definitions” to add a paving definition; 
Chapter 27.18, “R1 Districts - One Family Dwelling” to clarify limits on paving, landscaping, uncovered decks, and add a 
map for San Mateo Park Planning Area; Chapter 27.20 “R2 Districts – Two Family Dwellings” to replace the Floor Area Ratio 
maps; and Chapter 27.32 “C2 Districts – Regional/Community Commercial” to update emergency shelter provisions.
BACKGROUND:
Ordinance Introduction date: March 1, 2021
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance 
STAFF CONTACT
Julia Klein, Principal Planner
jklein@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7216
12 of 282

--- page 13 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Adding Section 27.04.356 to Chapter 27.04 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, Amending Sections 27.18.070, 
27.18.080, 27.18.100, 27.18.115, Add Maps to Sections 27.18.115 and 27.20.065, and Amending Sections 
27.20.065 and 27.32. 
WHEREAS, Staff has identified a number of Zoning Code provisions that require clarification or 
correction; and
WHEREAS, Staff recommends adding a definition of “paving,” specifying landscaping requirements, 
clarifying maximum floor area requirements, clarifying limits on paving requirements, clarifying uncovered deck 
requirements, adding three maps, and amending the City’s “emergency shelter” provisions as required by the 
State;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 27.04.356 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is added to Chapter 27.04 as follows:
27.04.356 Paving
(a) Paving” means solid, pavement materials that includes both pervious and non-pervious surfaces.  
Examples of paving include asphalt, concrete, brick, tile, decomposed granite, permeable concrete, and grass-
cells.
(b) “Non-pervious” or “impervious” surface means any surface or material that does not allow the 
passage of water through the material and into the underlying soil.
(c) "Pervious" surface means any surface or material that allows the passage of water through the 
material and into the underlying soil.  
Section 2. Section 27.18.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.18.070 Front Yard
(a) A front yard setback not less than twenty-five (25) feet in an R1-A district and not less than fifteen 
(15) feet in an R1-B or R1-C district shall be provided.
(b) Garage setback. A front yard setback not less than twenty (20) feet in an R1-B or R1-C district shall be 
provided for a garage.
(c) Private roads. Buildings erected or enlarged on property fronting upon a private road or easement 
shall maintain a front setback of at least fifty (50) feet from the centerline of such private road or easement.
(d) Limits on paving. This subsection regulates the amount and location of paving in order to: (1) 
maintain an aesthetic, landscaped appearance along the street frontages; and (2) maximize the amount of 
usable open space and landscape areas for single-family properties. The portion of the required front yard 
13 of 282

--- page 14 ---
setback that is paved shall be limited to driveways or walkways. The paving (including pervious and non-pervious 
surfaces), shall be limited to:
(1) that required for necessary driveway, as follows:
(A) Single car garages: 17 feet maximum in width or 40% of the street frontage, 
whichever is less, beginning at the side property line adjacent to the driveway, and including any 
contiguous paving (i.e. pedestrian walkways) with the following exception:
(i) For those parcels with single car garages, carports, or open parking spaces 
setback more than 35 feet from the front property line, no paving in addition to the 
driveway shall be allowed in the front yard setback.
(B) Two-car garages or larger: 20 feet maximum in width.
(C) For properties located on a cul-de-sac, a driveway at least 10 feet in width shall be 
permitted when providing access to two or fewer garages, carports, or open parking spaces, and 
12 feet in width when providing access to three or more garage, carport, or open parking 
spaces;
(2) Circular driveways subject to SPAR review; and
(3) Pedestrian walkways which are five (5) feet or less in width.
(e) Landscaping. Other than the paving for driveway and walkway that are permitted in subsection (d) 
above, the remaining portion of the required front yard setback is intended to: (1) be improved with landscaping 
and elements for outdoor living, and (2) provide space for the preservation of heritage trees.  Parking is 
prohibited in outdoor living areas and in areas delineated in Section 27.64.023 of the San Mateo Municipal 
Code.
Section 3. Section 27.18.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.18.080 Side Yards
(a) Interior side yards. Interior side yard setback not less than seven (7) feet in an R1-A district and not 
less than five (5) feet in an R1-B or R1-C district shall be provided.
(b) Street side yards. For corner parcels, a side yard adjacent to the street is a street side yard and a 
setback is required as follows:
(1) For ground floors: Fifteen percent (15%) of the lot width as measured at building location, 
not less than 7.5 feet and not to exceed 25 feet in the R1-A district and 15 feet in the R1-B and C 
districts.
(2) For construction above the first story: Minimum of ten (10) feet.
(3) For garages: Minimum of twenty (20) feet.
14 of 282

--- page 15 ---
(4) Limits on paving.  This subsection regulates the amount and location of paving in order to: (1) 
maintain an aesthetic, landscaped appearance along the street frontages; and (2) maximize the amount 
of usable open space and landscape areas for single-family properties.  The portion of the required 
street side yard setback that is paved shall be limited to driveways or walkways.  The paving (including 
pervious and non-pervious surfaces), shall be limited to:
(A) that required for necessary driveways, as follows:
(i) Single car garages: 17 feet maximum in width or 40% of the street frontage 
whichever is less, beginning at the side property line adjacent to the driveway, and 
including any contiguous paving (i.e. pedestrian walkways) with the following exception:
(I) For those parcels with single car garages, carports, or open parking 
spaces setback 35 feet or more from the street property line, no paving in 
addition to the driveway shall be allowed in the side setback.
(ii) Two-car garages or larger: 20 feet maximum in width.
(B) Pedestrian walkways which are five (5) feet or less in width.
(5) Landscaping. Other than the paving for driveway and walkway that are permitted in 
subsection (4) above, the remaining portion of the required street side yard setback is intended to: (1) 
be improved with landscaping and elements for outdoor living, and (2) provide space for the 
preservation of heritage trees.  Parking is prohibited in outdoor living areas and in areas delineated in 
Section 27.64.023 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
(c) Extensions of walls having non-conforming side yards. When an existing interior side yard of a legally 
constructed single-family dwelling is less than that required by this Section, a single story, horizontal addition 
may be constructed maintaining the existing non-conforming setback line, provided that:
(1) The existing side yard setback to be extended is at least three (3) feet from the side property 
line;
(2) The maximum height of the extended wall is twelve (12) feet to the plateline;
(3) The total length of the extension along a single side wall shall not exceed twenty (20) feet; 
and
(4) The proposed extension is the subject of Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) 
conducted by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to the provisions of Section 27.08.030.
(d) Non-residential uses. Newly constructed or expanded structures for non-residential uses allowed 
under Section 27.18.030 shall provide minimum side yards, both interior and street, of fifteen (15) feet or one-
half the building height, whichever is greater.
Section 4. Subsection (a)(9) of Section 27.18.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(9) Uncovered decks, subject to the following standards:
15 of 282

--- page 16 ---
(A) Uncovered decks that are eighteen (18) inches in height, or shorter, are allowed in 
all required yards; and
(B) Uncovered decks that are taller than eighteen (18) inches and no taller than thirty 
(30) inches in height are allowed in some portions of required yards provided that they are not 
located within five (5) feet of property lines.
Section 5. Section 27.18.115 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.18.115 San Mateo Park Planning Area
Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, the following shall be applicable to the San Mateo 
Park planning area as is designated on the map shown below:
(a) For both new residences and additions to existing residences:
(1) Garages shall provide a front yard setback of at least 50 feet when garage doors face the 
street, or 25 feet if garage doors do not face the street, except in cases where an existing or previously 
existing garage faced the street with less than a 50 foot front setback and in those cases the new garage 
may face the street with a front yard setback equal to or greater than that which previously existed and 
with no increase in the number of garage spaces that face the street.
(2) Sideyard setbacks shall be a minimum of 10 feet for interior lots of widths equal to or greater 
than 75 feet and 7 feet for interior lots of widths less than 75 feet.
16 of 282

--- page 17 ---
(b) For additions to existing residences:
(1) Street sideyard setbacks shall be equal to 15% of the lot width as measured at the building 
location but not less than 10 feet nor more than 25 feet.
(c) For new residences constructed on corner lots of widths equal to or greater than 75 feet:
(1) Both street frontages shall be treated as front yards with a minimum setback of 25 feet.
Section 6. Section 27.20.065 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.20.065 Maximum Floor Area Ratio (Central Neighborhood & North Central Neighborhood)
The floor area ratio of buildings and structures on zoning plots in the R2 district located in the Central 
Neighborhood and North Central Neighborhood shall not exceed 0.5 for parcels up to 7,500 square feet and 0.6 
for parcels greater than 7,500 square feet.
"Central Neighborhood" for the purposes of this section shall mean the area that is bounded by Highway 
92 to the South, the Railroad to the West, Fifth Avenue to the North, and Highway 101 to the East, as shown on 
the following map.
"North Central Neighborhood" for the purposes of this section shall mean the area that is bounded by 
2nd Avenue to the South, El Camino Real to the West, Poplar Avenue to the North, and Highway 101 to the East, 
as shown on the following map:
17 of 282

--- page 18 ---
SHRGEEE PA

TOI sane Ren) —
— vel Park |i —_
Ea Fete # Pet Fe Ele

<< —

O
_—
5 |

1: ee
—s &

2
Sy
Qo

Ro
Sy
“ROYa;—)

UR
ne,

Jal
CT

_ SOUTHBLVD _

Central Neighborhood Variable F.A.R. —

18 of 282


--- page 19 ---
Section 7. Subsection (p) of Section 27.32.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(p) Emergency Shelters, located more than 300 feet from single family zoning districts;
Section 8. Environmental Determination. This Zoning Code amendment is exempt from CEQA under the 
“common sense exemption” (CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3)), because it implements an existing Housing 
Element policy, provides clarification and improves legibility, and it can be seen with certainty that the changes 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment
Section 9. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 10. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
19 of 282

--- page 20 ---
Section 11. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
20 of 282

--- page 21 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4367-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Attorney Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Adoption – COVID-19 Hazard Pay for Large Grocery Store and Large Drugstore Workers 
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to require large grocery stores and large drugstores to provide hazard pay to their public facing 
employees. 
BACKGROUND:
On March 1, the City Council approved introduction of the attached ordinance. The ordinance requires that certain grocery 
stores and drugstores pay their workers an additional $5 per hour as compensation for their service during the COVID-19 
pandemic. As directed by Council the ordinance will expire 120 days after it is adopted. The ordinance will go into effect on 
April 14, 2021. The ordinance will expire on July 13, 2021. As written the ordinance will remain in effect until July 13, 2021, 
even if San Mateo County is no longer subject to health orders restricting the movement and gathering of county 
residents.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The adoption of this ordinance will not have a material impact on the City's budget. It is expected that staff resources 
would be needed to provide outreach on the provisions of the ordinance. Staff resources, including attorney services, 
could also be required in the enforcement of the ordinance.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This ordinance is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Shawn Mason, City Attorney
smason@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7022
21 of 282

--- page 22 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance Requiring Large Grocery Stores and Large Drugstores to Provide Hazard Pay to their Employees
WHEREAS, on March 19, 2020, the California State Public Health Officer, designated specific sectors and 
their workers, including grocery stores, as Essential Critical Infrastructure Workers (“essential workers”) to 
ensure the “continuity of functions critical to public health and safety, as well as economic and national 
security;” and
WHEREAS, since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, grocery workers in the City of San Mateo 
have continued to report to work and serve their communities, despite the ongoing hazards and danger of being 
exposed to and infected by the novel coronavirus, helping to ensure individuals throughout the City of San 
Mateo have had access to the food they need during this pandemic; and
WHEREAS, essential grocery workers cannot choose to work from home--they must come to work to do 
their jobs, which involve heightened risk of exposure and infection of COVID-19 through substantial interaction 
with customers on an ongoing basis and indoors where there is less air circulation; and
WHEREAS, despite the efforts of grocery stores to take precautions and keep customers and employees 
safe, including requiring masks, social distancing, and sanitizing cash registers, food conveyor belts, and 
shopping carts, the health threats that these grocery workers face cannot be overstated; and
WHEREAS, United Food and Commercial Workers (“UFCW”) Locals in Northern California, which 
represent grocery workers, report that over 700 grocery workers in their ranks have tested positive with COVID-
19, and members of their union have been hospitalized or have died from the coronavirus; and
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo recognizes that essential grocery workers must be justly compensated 
for the clear and present dangers of doing their jobs during the pandemic, and increases in wages result in more 
money being spent to stimulate our local economy; and
WHEREAS, there are numerous large grocery chains operating in San Mateo that employ workers in San 
Mateo, and have at least 500 employees nationwide, with workers who are facing the hazards of COVID-19 in 
the workplace every day; and
WHEREAS, on January 17, 2021, the California Department of Public Health reported another COVID-19 
variant that had grown more common across the state since December, with worrisome signs that this variant 
may be highly transmissible; and
WHEREAS, in December 2020 and January 2021, a growing list of cities across California, including 
Berkeley, Los Angeles, Long Beach, San Jose, and San Leandro began announcing legislation for hazard pay for 
essential grocery workers during the period where counties are in the Purple, Red, or Orange level of 
Community Transmission for COVID-19 under State Health orders; and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
22 of 282

--- page 23 ---
Section 1. Recitals
The City Council finds the foregoing recitals to be true and correct and hereby incorporates those 
recitals into this Ordinance.
Section 2.  Definitions.
The definitions set forth in this Section shall govern the construction and meaning of the terms used in 
this Ordinance:
(a) Base Wage” means the hourly wage paid to Covered Employees as of the effective date of this 
ordinance less Hazard Pay owed under this ordinance or any other premium hourly rate already paid to 
compensate Covered Employees for working during the pandemic (referred to herein as “employer-initiated 
hazard pay”).
(b) “City” means the City of San Mateo.
(c) “Covered Employee” means any individual who qualifies as an employee entitled to payment of a 
minimum wage from any employer under San Mateo Municipal Code Section 5.92.010, who works in a Grocery 
Store or Drugstore on either a full-time or part-time basis, and whose work exposes them to contact with store 
patrons.
(d) “Covered Employer” means any Person who (a) directly or indirectly or through an agent or any 
other Person owns or operates a Grocery Store or a Drugstore and employs or exercises control over the wages, 
hours or working conditions of any Covered Employee; and (b) employs 750 or more employees nationwide 
regardless of where those employees are employed. To determine the number of employees employed by a 
Grocery Store or  Drugstore, the calculation shall be based upon:
(1) The actual number of employees who worked for compensation during the two workweeks 
preceding the effective date of this ordinance; and
(2) All employees who worked for compensation shall be counted, including but not limited to:
(A) Employees who are not covered by this ordinance;
(B) Employees who worked within the geographic limits of the City;
(C) Employees who worked outside the geographic limits of the City; and
(D) Employees who worked in full-time employment, part-time employment, joint 
employment, temporary employment, or through the services of a temporary services or 
staffing agency or similar entity.
(e) “Employer-Initiated Hazard Pay” means a premium hourly rate to compensate Covered Employees 
for the hardships and/or risks associated with working during the COVID-19 pandemic. If a Covered Employer 
23 of 282

--- page 24 ---
pays such Employer–Initiated Hazard pay on a flat rate basis, the premium hourly rate is derived by dividing the 
flat rate payment for a workweek by the number of hours worked in the workweek.
(f)  “Hazard Pay” means an additional $5.00 per hour wage bonus in addition to each Covered 
Employee’s Base Wage or Holiday Premium wage for each hour worked within the City.
(g) “Holiday Premium” means the hourly wage paid to Covered Employees for performing work during a 
holiday or holiday season.
(h) “Hours Worked” means the time during which a Covered Employee is subject to the control of a 
Covered Employer, including all the time the employee is suffered or permitted to work, and on-call.
(i) “Drugstore” means a store that devotes seventy percent (70%) or more of its business to retailing a 
general range of drugs, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and related products, including food products, which may be 
fresh or packaged. There is a rebuttable presumption that if a store receives seventy percent (70%) or more 
revenue from retailing a general range of drugs, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and related products, including 
food products, then it qualifies as a drug store.
(j) “Grocery Store” means a retail store that is located within the geographic limits of the City, and that 
sells primarily household foodstuffs for offsite consumption, including the sale of fresh produce, meats, poultry, 
fish, deli products, dairy products, canned foods, dry foods, beverages, baked foods, or prepared foods. Other 
household supplies or other products shall be secondary to the primary purpose of food sales.  For the purposes 
of this ordinance, “Grocery Store” also means a retail store of any kind located within the geographic limits of 
the City that devotes 10% or more of its interior space to the sale of household foodstuffs for offsite 
consumption, including the sale of fresh produce, meats, poultry, fish, deli products, dairy products, canned 
foods, dry foods, beverages, baked foods, or prepared foods.
(k) “Person” means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability 
partnership, limited liability company, business trust, estate, trust, association, joint venture, agency, 
instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity, whether domestic or foreign.
Section 3. Payment of Hazard Pay to Covered Employees.
(a) Hazard Pay. Covered Employers shall pay Covered Employees a wage of no less than the premium 
hourly rate set under the authority of this ordinance. The premium hourly rate for each Covered Employee shall 
be an additional five dollars ($5.00) per hour for all hours worked at a Grocery Store or Drugstore on top of the 
Covered Employee’s Base Wage or Holiday Premium, whichever applicable at the time of hours worked. The 
Hazard Pay rate shall not include compensation already owed to Covered Employees, Holiday Premium rates, 
gratuities, service charge distributions, or other bonuses.
(b) Credits. Covered Employers providing employer-initiated hazard pay will be credited for doing so in 
accordance with Section 6.
Section 4. Paid Time Off for Vaccination
(a) Covered Employers shall provide Covered Employees up to 4 hours of paid time off to compensate
24 of 282

--- page 25 ---
(b) Covered Employees for the time required to obtain COVID-19 vaccinations.
Section 5. Credit for Employer–Initiated Hazard Pay
(a) Employer-Initiated Hazard Pay shall be credited against the five dollars ($5.00) per hour for the 
hourly amount paid to each Covered Employee (e.g., A Covered Employer offering two dollars ($2.00) per hour 
in Employer-Initiated Hazard Pay owes an additional three dollars ($3.00) per hour in Hazard Pay per this 
Chapter.) To receive credit for paying a Covered Employee Employer–Initiated Hazard Pay, a Covered Employer 
must demonstrate that, as of the effective date of this ordinance and in any subsequent covered workweeks, 
the Covered Employer paid such Employer-Initiated Hazard Pay to the Covered Employee. No Covered Employer 
shall be credited prospectively for any past payments. No Covered Employer shall be credited for any hourly 
premiums already owed to Covered Employees, such as but not limited to, Holiday Premiums. Nothing herein 
shall be interpreted to prohibit any employer from paying more than five dollars ($5.00) per hour in Hazard Pay.
(b) Covered Employers must, upon request, immediately provide the following to the City Manager’s 
Office to receive credit for Employer- Initiated Hazard Pay:
(1) A copy of the Employer’s Hazard Pay policy; and
(2) A statement, provided under penalty of perjury, explaining Covered Employees’ hourly Base 
Wages, hourly Holiday Premiums, hourly employer-initiated hazard pay, and any other wage bonuses 
received during the last twelve (12) all months; and
(3) For any Covered Employee(s) as to whom a Covered Employer seeks credit for Employer–
Initiated Hazard Pay, documentation reflecting that such payments were made, for each hour claimed; 
and
(4) Documentation that allows the City to review for compliance by assessing wages for the past 
twelve (12) months and that is itemized in such a way that the City can understand a Covered 
Employee’s Base Wage distinguished from Holiday Premiums and other bonuses or pay increases that 
are separate and distinct from employer-initiated hazard pay.
(A) The following constitutes acceptable evidence of employer-initiated hazard pay 
described in Subsection (B)(4): A spreadsheet, of all Covered Employees and their wages for 
each pay period for the last twelve (12) months, that allows the City to distinguish Base Wage 
from Holiday Pay and other bonuses or pay increases that are separate and distinct from 
employer-initiated hazard pay.
(B) Production of the evidence described in Subsection (B)(4)(a) does not exempt any 
Covered Employer from maintaining, and providing access to, the underlying payroll records 
described in this Section.
(c) Any offer of proof under subsection (b)(4) shall be accompanied by a written acknowledgment that it 
was submitted under penalty of perjury.
Section 6. Waiver
25 of 282

--- page 26 ---
The provisions of this ordinance may not be waived by agreement between an individual Covered 
Employee and a Covered Employer. All the provisions of this ordinance, or any part thereof, may be waived in a 
bona fide collective bargaining agreement, but only if the waiver is explicitly set forth in such agreement in clear 
and unambiguous terms.
Section 7. Prohibitions
It shall be unlawful for a Covered Employer or any other Person to interfere with, restrain or deny the 
existence of, or the attempt to exercise, any rights protected under this ordinance.  Employers shall not take 
retaliatory action or discriminate against any employee or former employee because the individual has 
exercised rights protected under this ordinance. Such rights include, but are not limited to, the right to request 
Hazard Pay pursuant to this ordinance; the right to file a complaint with the City or inform any person about an 
employer's alleged violation of this ordinance; the right to participate in an investigation, hearing or proceeding 
or cooperate with or assist the City in its investigations of alleged violations of this ordinance, and the right to 
inform any person of their rights under this ordinance. Protections of this ordinance shall apply to any employee 
who mistakenly, but in good faith, alleges noncompliance with this ordinance. Taking adverse action against an 
employee, including lowering an employee’s Base Wage or Holiday Premium Wages or reducing work hours, 
within 90 days of the employee's exercise of rights protected under this ordinance shall raise a rebuttable 
presumption of having done so in retaliation for the exercise of such rights.
Section 8. Enforcement
(a) The failure of any person to comply with any requirement imposed under this ordinance is a violation 
of city law and may be enforced through any of the remedies provided in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 
1.04.  
(b) Any covered grocery or drug store worker that suffers financial injury as a result of a violation of this 
ordinance, or is the subject of prohibited retaliation under Section 8, may bring a civil action in a court of 
competent jurisdiction against the Covered Employer or other person violating this ordinance and, upon 
prevailing, may be awarded reasonable attorney fees and costs and such legal or equitable relief as may be 
appropriate to remedy the violation including, without limitation: the payment of any unpaid compensation plus 
interest due to the person and liquidated damages in an additional amount of up to twice the unpaid 
compensation; and a reasonable penalty payable to any aggrieved party if the aggrieved party was subject to 
prohibited retaliation.
Section 9. Regulations
The City Manager’s Office may promulgate and enforce rules and regulations, and issue determinations 
and interpretations, consistent with and necessary for the implementation of this ordinance. Such rules and 
regulations, determinations, and interpretations shall have the force of law and may be relied upon by 
employers, employees, and other persons to determine their rights and responsibilities under this ordinance.
Section 10. Conflict
26 of 282

--- page 27 ---
Nothing in this ordinance shall be interpreted or applied to create any power or duty in conflict with any 
federal or state law. The term "Conflict," means a conflict that is preemptive under federal or state law.
Section 11. Notice
(a) Covered Employers shall provide covered grocery or drug store workers with a written notice of 
rights established by this ordinance. The notice of rights shall be in a form and manner sufficient to inform 
grocery or drug store workers of their rights under this ordinance. The notice of rights shall provide information 
on:
(1) the right to premium pay guaranteed by this ordinance;
(2) the right to be protected from retaliation for exercising in good faith the rights afforded by 
this ordinance; and
(3) the right to bring a civil action for a violation of the requirements of this ordinance, including 
a Covered Employer’s denial of premium pay as required by this ordinance and a Covered Employer or 
other person's retaliation against a covered grocery or drug store or drug store worker or other person 
for asserting the right to premium pay or otherwise engaging in an activity protected by this ordinance.
(b) Covered Employers shall provide the notice of rights required by posting a written notice of rights in 
a location of the grocery or drug store utilized by employees for breaks, and in an electronic format that is 
readily accessible to the grocery or drug store workers. The notice of rights shall be made available to the 
grocery or drug store workers via smartphone application or an online web portal, in English and any language 
that the Covered Employer knows or has reason to know is the primary language of the grocery or drug store 
worker(s).
Section 12. Environmental Determination. This ordinance is not a project under CEQA because it can be seen 
with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in the environment. 
Section 13. Severability. If any subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held to 
be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of 
the remaining portions of this ordinance, which shall remain in full force and effect. The City Council hereby 
declares that it would have passed this ordinance and each and every subsection, sentence, clause and phrase 
thereof not declared invalid or unconstitutional, without regard to whether any portion of the article would be 
subsequently declared invalid or unconstitutional. The courts are hereby authorized to reform the provisions of 
this ordinance in order to preserve the maximum permissible effect of each subsection herein.
Section 14. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.  
Section 15. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete. and 
adopted on       , and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.  This ordinance shall automatically expire and 
no longer be of any effect 120 days after its adoption.
27 of 282

--- page 28 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4329
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Tenant Relocation Payments – Appropriation of Funds
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $67,976 of property owner repayments to the Emergency Tenant Relocation Assistance 
Project.
BACKGROUND:
The adopted 2020-21 budget appropriated $50,000 of the General Fund housing set-aside reserve into the Emergency 
Tenant Relocation Assistance Project to provide an emergency relocation assistance fund for renters who must move from 
their homes due to unsafe occupancy issues as determined by Code Enforcement.  Although the property owner is 
responsible to pay for relocation assistance, the City has the option to advance the funds to the tenants if the landlord 
does not act in a timely manner.  So far in fiscal year 2020-21, the City has assisted tenants in three properties and has 
received reimbursement payments in the amount of $67,976 from two of the property owners.  The purpose of this 
appropriation is to deposit the repayments back into the Emergency Tenant Relocation Assistance Project for use in the 
future as a revolving fund.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The source of the tenant assistance payments is the General Fund and the repayments from the property owners are 
returned to the General Fund. This action designates that those repayments are tracked in the project instead of operating 
budget for easier administration. This action has zero net impact on the General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This appropriation is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not involve any 
commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment. 
(CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1- Proposed Resolution
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
28 of 282

--- page 29 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
APPROPRIATE $67,976 OF PROPERTY OWNER REPAYMENTS TO EMERGENCY TENANT RELOCATION 
ASSISTANCE PROJECT 
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires Council approval by resolution for supplemental 
appropriations to the City’s budget; and
WHEREAS, the adopted 2020-21 budget appropriated $50,000 of the General Fund Housing Reserve into 
project 313134 to provide an emergency relocation assistance fund for renters who must move from their 
homes due to unsafe occupancy issues as determined by Code Enforcement; and
WHEREAS, in fiscal year 2020-21, the City received reimbursement payments in the amount of $67,976 
from property owners for funds the City fronted to assist tenants in emergency situations; and
WHEREAS, the purpose of this appropriation is to deposit the repayments back into the project for use 
in the future as a revolving fund.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
 A supplemental budget appropriation to the Emergency Tenant Relocation Assistance Project 
313134 received from property owner repayments for fiscal year 2020-21 is approved in the amount 
of $67,976. 
2.
 In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4), this appropriation is not a project subject 
to CEQA because it is a government fiscal activity that will not impact the environment.
29 of 282

--- page 30 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4330
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
School Crossing Guard Services – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with the San Mateo-Foster City School District for school crossing guards for the 2021-22 school 
year in the amount of $78,000 and authorize the Chief of Police to execute the agreement in substantially the form 
presented.
BACKGROUND:
The annual agreement between the City of San Mateo and the San Mateo-Foster City School District for school crossing 
guards will expire on June 30, 2021. The proposed agreement for the 2021-22 school year is included with this report as 
Attachment 1 and continues the City's contribution not to exceed $78,000 towards the cost of 14 crossing guard positions 
and one Human Resources position to support the safety of San Mateo children. Crossing guards are paid $15.62 per hour 
as detailed in Exhibit A and will increase per the Consumer Price Index (CPI) effective January 1, 2022.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Police Department has budgeted for this amount in the proposed 2021-22 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This school crossing guard agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Agreement
Exhibit A - Crossing Guard Listing
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Dave Norris, Police Captain
dnorris@cityofsanmateo.org
30 of 282

--- page 31 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
(650) 522-7681
31 of 282

--- page 32 ---
1
SCHOOL CROSSING GUARD AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE CITY OF SAN MATEO
AND
THE SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT
This agreement, made and entered into this day of 
           , 
by and between the City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the 
State of California, hereinafter "City," and the San Mateo-Foster City School District, 
hereinafter "District."
WHEREAS, the City wants to assist the District in providing protection for school 
children who are required to cross heavily traveled streets in the City; and
WHEREAS, some protection can be afforded by placing crossing guards at specific 
locations in the City; and
WHEREAS, the District wishes to cooperate in providing protection for school pupils 
pursuant to Education Code section 45450 et seq.,
NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:
1.
The District shall select, hire, and supervise crossing guards as necessary for each 
of the locations shown on Exhibit A to this agreement during the hours that pupils are walking to 
and from nearby schools on school days during the school year.  Salaries and wages shall be at 
rates determined by the District.  The crossing guards shall be considered, and shall in fact be, 
employees of the District for all purposes.
2.
The City agrees to reimburse District for wages and salaries paid by the District to 
the crossing guards for daily administrative costs incurred in providing the crossing guards so 
long as this reimbursement does not exceed that figure agreed to pursuant to paragraph 6 below.
3.
Not later than thirty (30) days after the close of each calendar quarter, the District 
shall bill the City for reimbursement of the costs described in paragraph 2 above, and the City 
shall promptly pay the bill.
4.
The City and the District shall meet during the month of March of each year 
during the term of this agreement to allocate the City and District portions of the crossing guard 
expense.  
5.
At any time during the term of this agreement, the District may request the City to 
delete or add one or more locations from or to the list attached as Exhibit A hereto.  If the City 
determines, pursuant to California Traffic Manual section 10-08.2, that a location either should 
or should not have a crossing guard, the parties may amend this Agreement to add or delete a 
location from Exhibit A.  If a location is added, the District shall promptly provide a crossing 
guard at that location and bill the City appropriately for the location pursuant to this agreement.  
32 of 282

--- page 33 ---
2
If a location is deleted, the District shall promptly remove the crossing guard and immediately 
cease billing for that location.  During the meeting described in paragraph 4 above, the City and 
the District shall discuss whether any location(s) should be added or deleted.
6.
For fiscal year 2021/2022, the City’s contribution to the District for crossing 
guards will not exceed $78,000.  The hourly wage for the crossing guards will be $15.62, 
commensurate with the City’s minimum wage.  On January 1, 2022, the City’s minimum wage 
will increase by CPI and crossing guard wages will be adjusted accordingly.
7.
The District agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all 
claims, loss, liability, and damages in any way arising from the acts of the District or its 
employees or agents, including the crossing guards, in the performance of this agreement.
8.
The duty of the District to indemnify and hold harmless as set forth in this 
agreement shall include the duty to defend as set forth in Civil Code section 2778.
9.
Insurance.  The District shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract 
insurance against claims for injuries to persons or damages to property which may arise from or 
in connection with the performance of this Agreement.
Minimum Scope of Insurance.  Coverage shall be as broad as:
a.
Insurance Services Office Commercial General Liability coverage (occurrence Form 
CG0001).
b. Workers’ Compensation Insurance as required by the State of California and Employer’s 
Liability Insurance.
Minimum Limits of Insurance.  District shall maintain limits no less than:
a.
General Liability:
(Including operations, 
products and completed 
operations.)
$1,000,000
per occurrence for body injury, personal 
injury and property damage.  If Commercial 
General Liability insurance or other form 
with a general aggregate limit is used, either 
the general aggregate limit shall apply 
separately to this project/ location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the 
required occurrence limits.
b. Workers’ Compensation
As required by the State of California.
c.
Employers’ Liability
$1,000,000
per accident or bodily injury or disease. 
33 of 282

--- page 34 ---
3
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions. Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be 
declared to and approved by the City.  At the option of the City, either:  The insurer shall reduce 
or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions as respects the City, its elected and 
appointed officials, employees and agents; or the District shall provide a financial guarantee 
satisfactory to the City guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim 
administration, and defense expenses.  
Other Insurance Provisions.  The general liability and automobile liability policies are to 
contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions:  
a.
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, are to be 
covered as insureds with respect to liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or 
borrowed by or on behalf of the contractor; and with respect to liability arising out of work or 
operations performed by or on behalf of the District including materials, parts or equipment 
furnished in connection with such work or operations.  General Liability coverage shall be 
provided in the form of an Additional Insured endorsement (CG 20 10 11 85 or equivalent) to 
the District’s insurance policy, or as a separate owner’s policy.
b.
For any claims related to this project, District’s insurance coverage shall be 
primary insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. 
Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City shall be excess of the District’s insurance 
and shall not contribute with it.
c.
Each insurance policy required by this clause shall be endorsed to state that 
coverage shall not be canceled by either party, except after thirty (30) days prior written notice 
has been provided to the City.
Acceptability of Insurers.  District shall furnish the City with original certificates and 
endorsements effecting coverage required by this clause.  The endorsements should be on forms 
provided by the City or on other than the City’s forms, provided those endorsements or policies 
conform to the requirements.  All certificates and endorsements are to be received and approved 
by the City before work commences.  However, failure to do so shall not operate as a waiver of 
these insurance requirements.  The City reserves the right to require complete certified copies of 
all required insurance policies, including endorsements affecting the coverage required by these 
specifications at any time.  
If District is self-insured, District may satisfy this requirement by providing a written statement 
that it is self-insured in the amounts set forth above.
10.
The District warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply 
with applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither the District nor 
any of its subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, 
color, national origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, 
unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair 
Employment and Housing Act.
34 of 282

--- page 35 ---
4
11.
Notices sent pursuant to this agreement shall be addressed as follows:
To the City:
Chief of Police Edmund Barberini
City of San Mateo Police Department
200 Franklin Parkway
San Mateo, CA  94403
To the District:
Coordinator Sue Wieser
San Mateo-Foster City School District
1170 Chess Drive
Foster City, CA 94404
12.
The term of this agreement shall be from July 1, 2021, to June 30, 2022, but this 
agreement may be terminated by either party upon thirty (30) days’ written notice to the other 
party at any time and may be amended by mutual agreement in writing.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
By ________________________________________
  EDMUND BARBERINI, CHIEF OF POLICE
ATTEST:
______________________________
PATRICE OLDS, CITY CLERK
SAN MATEO-FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT
By 
      PRESIDENT, BOARD OF TRUSTEES
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
SECRETARY OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES 
35 of 282

--- page 36 ---
San Mateo-Foster City School District
San Mateo Crossing Guards 2021-2022
Exhibit A.

San Mateo Crossing Guards - 9712 a

a a es es es

nn
(CODE TOTAL COST
Borel El Camino/Barneson 15 | SUBSTITUTE 180 2 $15.62 $5,623.20 $6,196.79
eee tee fat eee
College Pk | Humboldt/indian 180 2 $15.62 | $5,623.20| $1,282.01 $7,478.88
fends [2 | Tze.
a ee ee

Hilsdale/Curtis | 149|Mossier__|catherine | __¢ | 180 | 2 | ssa | $5623.20| s1,20203| sasaca| seise $7,478.58
pets [owcstosin | aslece fon | | 0 | $15.62 sens} 57,836.35
poses femesres | afew | [ [a sis62 | sisos.col | $4,549.20

Laurel isdale/Hacienda 22| Substitute $15.62 | $4,498.56 a4 — : 54,957.43
dale/Haciends Se 2 $15.62 | $5,623.20 5348.64 $81.54 I 56,196.79

cece | [a22|aguiar (Barbara _| so | 2 suse: | sesosao] camana| —sowea[ corse] —saei] —sxwoeal 57,478.88

ees See a | sisez | sixzacaol | senr.za|  suca.o7| sso] sasnzl | | st.39 so
cre scann/seie [_tzsfobeson fume {| _s_| a0 | 2_| sisea| sseaa2of 514 56,196.79

Sunmybrae | Delaware/Birch 128|Villagomez | Feliberta 4 $15.62 | 511,246.40 $12,393.59
Sunmybrae | West Grant Place 4 $15.62 | $11,246.40| $2,564 $14,957.76

HR $a7.47 | $11,375.31| $2,582.17 $702.1 iS : : . ; $15,941.04
Sr Cost-San Mateo $135,442.96

36 of 282


--- page 37 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4366
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police and Public Works Departments
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Parking Enforcement Services - Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to use an alternative purchasing method to approve the execution of an agreement with LAZ Parking 
California, LLC for citywide parking enforcement services in the amount of $2,034,004 and authorize the Chief of Police to 
execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
In January 2019, the City Council conducted a study session to discuss parking enforcement needs. Staff provided a history 
of the challenges associated with staffing this function and proposed improvements to the level of enforcement service 
provided at the time. City Council directed staff to pursue a hybrid staffing approach utilizing a mix of City and contracted 
enforcement staff to enhance service delivery and frequency of enforcement. 
City Council approved a three-year agreement with Serco Inc. (Serco) on November 18, 2019. Serco's enforcement 
activities in the City commenced in February 2020, with a scope of work including issuing parking citations for observed 
violations in the Downtown commercial district and Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP) zones and for street 
sweeping violations; completing data entry and uploading citation data for processing; monitoring equipment and signage 
and reporting any damage; and performing other duties as needed such as traffic control and operational support at 
special events. 
Serco notified San Mateo Police Department (SMPD) staff in January 2021 that the company was in the process of 
divesting themselves of their parking enforcement division, and that they had identified LAZ Parking California, LLC (LAZ 
Parking) as the buyer for the division. LAZ Parking has agreed to retain all existing Serco employees operating in the City, 
and has agreed to the existing contract terms, rates, and scope of work. LAZ Parking has committed to no disruption in 
service and no changes to the City’s existing enforcement services with the exception of new uniform and vehicle 
markings.
The City’s preference is to enter into a new agreement directly with LAZ Parking for parking enforcement services, as 
opposed to assigning the existing contract to a new entity. Staff has drafted a new agreement with LAZ Parking for 20 
months, the remainder of the existing three-year term with Serco. The agreement includes the option to extend the 
agreement for up to 2 one-year terms if the City opts to do so. This provision was included in the initial Serco agreement as 
well. 
Staff requests approval of the agreement pursuant to SMMC 3.60.070(h)(3), which allows the Council to use any 
purchasing process that is in the best interest of the City. The transition to LAZ Parking will result in no disruption in 
parking enforcement services and provides for the retainment of existing enforcement personnel familiar with the City and 
37 of 282

--- page 38 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
parking operations. Further, the agreement with LAZ Parking retains the scope, budget, and terms of the existing Serco 
agreement, requiring no additional training or funding. Therefore, staff believes it to be in the best interest of the City to 
proceed with this agreement with LAZ Parking. The transition from the existing Serco services to LAZ Parking is expected to 
take place between April 1 and May 1 when the transaction is finalized, and the Chief of Police will execute the agreement 
at that time. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with the approval of this agreement. The budget for the agreement with LAZ Parking 
California is equal to the prior budget approved for Serco, Inc., and there is sufficient budget in the Downtown Parking and 
Security Fund for this program. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
Glen Teixeira, Police Sergeant
teixeira@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7745
38 of 282

--- page 39 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. 
(2021)
APPROVING ALTERNATIVE PURCHASING PROCEDURE FOR THE EXECUTION OF AN AGREEMENT WITH 
LAZ PARKING, LLC FOR PARKING ENFORCEMENT SERVICES ($2,034,004). 
WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo conducted a competitive process in 2019 seeking contract 
parking enforcement services and awarded a three-year contract to Serco, Inc. in November 2019; 
and
WHEREAS, Serco Inc. has notified the City they are divesting themselves of their parking 
enforcement division and had identified LAZ Parking LLC as the buyer; and
WHEREAS, the Police Department has identified that by entering into an agreement with LAZ 
Parking LLC will ensure no disruption of enforcement services and the current enforcement staff will be 
retained by LAZ Parking; and
WHEREAS, the agreement with LAZ Parking LLC is under the same terms and rates as the existing 
Serco Inc. agreement; and
WHEREAS, Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3) provides that the City may use any 
purchasing procedures approved by the City Council if the Council makes a finding concurrent with the 
award that the procedures are in the best interest of the City for that particular agreement; and
WHEREAS, this agreement is not a project as defined by the California Environmental Quality 
Act in that it can been seen with certainty that it will have no significant impact on the physical 
environment.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, FINDS and 
RESOLVES THAT:
1. Pursuant to Municipal Code Section 3.60.070(h)(3), it is found that the approval of the 
agreement for parking enforcement services with LAZ Parking LLC is in the City’s best 
interest because this will ensure the City’s current enforcement services will continue 
uninterrupted and enforcement staff serving the City will remain constant. LAZ Parking 
meets SMPD’s interest in that they will mirror the current operations overseen by SMPD 
staff and will not require changes in the training, operation, and program management of 
this critical program. 
2. The agreement in the amount of $2,034,004 is approved.
3. The Chief of Police is authorized to execute the agreement.
39 of 282

--- page 40 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
AGREEMENT WITH LAZ PARKING CALIFORNIA LLC 
FOR CONTRACT PARKING ENFORCEMENT SERVICES 
FOR  
CITYWIDE PARKING ENFORCEMENT 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________, 2021, by and between the 
CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
("CITY"), and LAZ PARKING CALIFORNIA LLC, a Connecticut Limited Liability Company 
("CONTRACTOR"), whose address is One Financial Plaza, 14th Floor, Hartford, CT 06103. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A. 
CITY desires certain contract parking enforcement services hereinafter 
described. 
 
 
 
B. 
CITY desires to engage CONTRACTOR to provide these contract parking 
enforcement services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and 
CONTRACTOR has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth 
herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, which is attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONTRACTOR under this Agreement.  CONTRACTOR shall, 
without additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONTRACTOR. 
 
 
CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall comply with State’s Prevailing Wage Laws.  
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator.  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
40 of 282

--- page 41 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
 
CONTRACTOR or subcontractor shall not be qualified to bid on, be listed in a bid proposal, or 
engage in the performance of any contract for public work unless currently registered and qualified to 
perform public work pursuant to Section 1725.5 of the Labor Code.  For the work performed for the 
City, the CONTRACTOR and his subcontractors shall pay the workers at the prevailing wage rate as 
determined by the California Department of Industrial Relations, for this locality.  This project is subject 
to compliance monitoring and enforcement by the Department of Industrial Relations. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONTRACTOR and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONTRACTOR's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on the date signed by the 
CITY and will remain in effect for a period of twenty (20) months ending November 30, 2022, with the 
option to extend for two (2) additional one (1) year terms. City will exercise each option via a 
modification signed by both parties.  At the conclusion of the term, any equipment purchased in 
connection with this Agreement shall be the property of the City.   
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONTRACTOR in an amount of 
$2,034,004, a fee pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B, attached and incorporated by reference. The 
payment terms are due 30 days from receipt of a monthly invoice summarizing hours worked and 
other direct costs (ODCs) provided by Contractor.  
 
SECTION 6 – TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, either party 
shall have the right to terminate this Agreement, upon ten (10) days' written notice to the other party.  
CONTRACTOR agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon receipt of said written notice.  
 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
 
 
All documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in the performance of this Agreement are and shall 
be the property of CITY, whether the project for which they are made is executed or not. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
41 of 282

--- page 42 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONTRACTOR in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONTRACTOR shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONTRACTOR or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
CONTRACTOR covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - CONTRACTOR'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the services required under this Agreement, 
CONTRACTOR shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code 
Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by which the 
result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONTRACTOR an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONTRACTOR agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONTRACTOR’s performance of this Agreement, except for those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONTRACTOR agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract the insurance specified 
in Exhibit C to this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 13 - NONASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONTRACTOR 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONTRACTOR without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
42 of 282

--- page 43 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON SKILL OF CONTRACTOR 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONTRACTOR is 
skilled in the performance of the work agreed to be done under this Agreement and that CITY relies 
upon the skill of CONTRACTOR to do and perform the work in the most skillful manner, and 
CONTRACTOR agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONTRACTOR's work by CITY does 
not operate as a release of CONTRACTOR from said obligation. 
 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the 
same or of any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of 
any fee or other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any 
preceding breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement 
or of any applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this provision that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONTRACTOR nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
43 of 282

--- page 44 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
In the event of a dispute arising under or in connection with this Agreement, the parties agree 
that each party's respective representatives will work diligently and in good faith to promptly resolve 
same. If the representatives fail to resolve any such dispute within ten (10) days after both parties are 
provided with written notice of the dispute, the dispute shall be elevated to the Vice President or 
higher level of each organization, at which level appropriate individuals from both parties will diligently 
attempt to resolve the dispute. If at the end of that additional ten (10) days period the dispute remains 
unresolved, the parties may elect to continue efforts to resolve the dispute through further 
discussions, provided that either party may at such time elect to pursue other available legal or 
equitable remedies as well or in lieu of any further discussion.  
 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONTRACTOR shall testify at CITY's request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONTRACTOR's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONTRACTOR, or 
is based upon CONTRACTOR's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONTRACTOR for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONTRACTOR's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
Each party shall appoint a technical and a contract representative and keep these during the term 
hereof.   
All notices hereunder shall be deemed effective when given in writing and personally delivered (to 
include courier and other independent delivery service(s), sent via U.S. Certified Mail, Return Receipt 
Requested, via facsmile or electronic mail with an original to follow via U.S. First-Class Mail as follows 
or to such other address(es) as the either party may from time to time designate in writing to the other 
party: 
 
 
To CITY with respect to 
technical matters: 
Captain David Peruzzaro 
City of San Mateo 
200 Franklin Parkway 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
 
 
To CITY with respect to 
contractual matters: 
Sue-Ellen Atkinson 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave. 
San Mateo CA 94403 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
44 of 282

--- page 45 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
To CONTRACTOR with 
respect to technical matters: 
LAZ Parking California, LLC 
Attn:  Rod Howery, Regional Vice President 
5901 Christie Avenue, Suite 202 
Emeryville, CA 94608 
 
 
To CONTRACTOR with 
respect to contractual 
matters: 
LAZ Parking California, LLC 
Attn:  Glenn Terk 
One Financial Plaza, 14th Floor 
Hartford, CT 06103 
 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONTRACTOR and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONTRACTOR. 
 
SECTION 22 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]  
 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
45 of 282

--- page 46 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and LAZ PARKING CALIFORNIA, LLC have executed 
this Agreement the day and year first above written. 
 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
LAZ PARKING CALIFORNIA, LLC 
 
 
 
 
Chief Ed Barberini 
San Mateo Police Department 
 
 
 
 
 
Jeffrey Karp 
Its Authorized Agent 
President and Founder 
 
If a Corporation, can be either 1) President or 2) 
Vice President plus an additional corporate 
officer (i.e., Secretary, Treasurer) who shall sign 
below. 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL CORPORATE OFFICER  
(if necessary per the above) 
 
Bahareh Abdollahi 
Assistant City Attorney 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Payment Rates 
Exhibit C: 
Insurance Requirements  
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
46 of 282

--- page 47 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
EXHIBIT A 
 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
47 of 282

--- page 48 ---
Task 1 – Parking Enforcement Responsibilities  
1.1 Enforcement Areas 
LAZ Parking (LAZ) will enforce parking restrictions in the Downtown core, residential parking 
permit zones, street sweeping, and general parking restrictions as follows: 
• Downtown Commercial District: Enforcement of expired meters and time limits 8:00AM 
through 6:00PM, Mon - Saturday, except for City holidays 
• Residential Parking Permit Program (RPPP): 8:00 AM to 6:00PM, Monday through 
Saturday (or as otherwise indicated by posted parking restrictions) 
• Street Sweeping: Commercial areas and residential neighborhoods at 4:00AM - 2:00PM 
• Commercial/General Enforcement: General parking restrictions and commercial zones 
• Neighborhood Concerns: Addressed on an as-needed basis 
 
1.2 General Responsibilities 
Parking Enforcement Representative Responsibilities 
• Enforce Municipal and State Vehicle Codes related to parking and registration violations and 
issues citations.  
• Provide traffic control assistance to the Police Department upon request 
• Patrol City streets, parking lots, structures, and parking metered areas for parking violations 
or abandoned vehicles 
• Receive and respond to radio calls for parking related complaints 
• Assist citizens with parking and traffic issues or questions 
• Report circumstances requiring police action 
• Report safety hazards 
• Report damaged equipment, unclear signage or street markings, and missing, damaged or 
conflicting parking signs or traffic control signs  
• Report parking abnormalities or abnormal parking patterns  
• Provide beat analysis and report malfunctioning parking meters 
 
1.3 Citation Issuance 
PERs will be trained on issuing citations electronically using Turbo Data handhelds which also 
allows the capability of capturing digital photos of each violation. Officers will also be trained 
on completing handwritten citations legibly. Prior to deployment each day, during morning 
briefing, any out of the ordinary situations will be discussed and all exceptions, if any, for any 
violations will be given to staff by shift lead such as “do no cite” pass-downs by PD.  
 
1.4 Level of Service 
10 PERs, 1 Lead PER and a Project Manager will staff this work. The Lead PER and Project 
Manager shall be available to address citizen complaints and respond to service calls. The 
staffing schedule is anticipated to be as follows: 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
48 of 282

--- page 49 ---
Task 2 – Equipment  
2.1 Vehicles 
LAZ will furnish eight (8) parking enforcement vehicles (Toyota Prius or similar hybrid model) as 
approved by the City for parking enforcement activities based on the proposed staffing plan. In 
addition, LAZ will consider alternative means of transportation, such as bicycles, in areas where 
automobile enforcement is not practical. 
Global Positioning System (GPS) 
Each vehicle will be equipped with GPS tracking units. This type of tracking system will provide 
up to 60-second updates on vehicle and phone movement, driving behavior, and idle times and 
send alerts to emails and cell phones for infraction of a set rule. The ability to monitor 
movement and driving behavior and patterns of enforcement officers will allow management 
to address issues promptly, create efficiencies, and improve officer productivity. Not only does 
Saturday
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
GEN ENFORCEMENT OFF
OFF
3:30am-12pm 3:30am-12pm 3:30am-12pm 3:30am-12pm 3:30am-12pm
STREET SWEEPING
GEN ENFORCEMENT OFF
OFF
7:30a-4pm
7:30a-4pm
7:30a-4pm
7:30a-4pm
7:30a-4pm
STREET SWEEPING
GEN ENFORCEMENT OFF 
OFF
7:30a-4pm
7:30a-4pm
7:30a-4pm
7:30a-4pm
7:30a-4pm
STREET SWEEPING
GEN ENFORCEMENT 9:30am-6pm
OFF
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
OFF
RPP/COMMERCIAL/DOWNTOWN
GEN ENFORCEMENT 9:30am-6pm
OFF
OFF
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
RPP/COMMERCIAL/DOWNTOWN
GEN ENFORCEMENT 9:30am-6pm
OFF
OFF
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
RPP/COMMERCIAL/DOWNTOWN
GEN ENFORCEMENT 6am-2:30pm
OFF
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
OFF
9:30am-6pm
RPP/COMMERCIAL/DOWNTOWN
GEN ENFORCEMENT 9:30am-6pm
OFF
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
OFF
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
RPP/COMMERCIAL/DOWNTOWN
GEN ENFORCEMENT 6am-2:30pm
OFF
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
OFF
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
RPP/COMMERCIAL/DOWNTOWN
GEN ENFORCEMENT 9:30am-6pm
OFF
OFF
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
RPP/COMMERCIAL/DOWNTOWN
DEPUTY
9:30am-6pm
OFF
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
9:30am-6pm
MANAGER
OFF
OFF
5:30am
5:30am
5:30am
5:30am
5:30am
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
49 of 282

--- page 50 ---
the system provide a live feed of vehicle activity, but also records are archived in case of 
complaints (e.g., for driving over the speed limit or skipping violating vehicles). The record can 
be traced back to the driving officer’s activity for that day and time.  
Safety Lights 
All vehicles will be mounted with Alternating Quad Flash Strobe Magnetic Mount in Amber. 
These lights will be used when staff is patrolling to warn other vehicles about their vehicle’s 
slower movement. 
Vehicle Marking 
LAZ will obtain City approval prior to ordering decals for the marking of all vehicles. All vehicles 
will have markings clearly identifying LAZ vehicles. The rear of all patrol vehicles will have a sign 
warning of frequent vehicle stops.  
The vehicles will also have “CAUTION” and “Frequent Stops” on the rear lid and unit numbers 
on the rear lid and sides near the rear of the vehicle.  
Vehicle Maintenance Plan 
The fleet maintenance plan will include a monthly record of maintenance performed on each 
vehicle by Date, Unit number, Vendor, maintenance performed, and cost. A vehicle inspection 
log is incorporated in the Officer Daily Log to document daily vehicle inspections. Parking 
enforcement representatives and supervisors are responsible for daily inspections of the 
vehicles and supervisors are responsible for weekly vehicle maintenance inspections.  
Daily Vehicle Inspection  
Pre- and post-shift visual inspection conducted by the supervisor along with the PER and 
notated on the vehicle inspection form. Once the inspection is complete, both supervisor and 
PER will initial the inspection form.  
• Visually inspect the vehicle for physical damage and notated on the form  
• Visually inspect to ensure brake lights, running lights, turn signals, windshield wiper and 
amber lights are working properly 
• Visually inspect tires to ensure they are properly inflated and tread level is acceptable 
• Visually inspect to ensure vehicles are equipped with proper safety kits, including first 
aid, cones, and hazard marking devices such as flares  
• Visually inspect the interior of the vehicle for cleanliness 
Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR)  
LAZ will provide three (3) mobile LPR system(s) for the automated detection of license plates. 
LAZ will utilize this technology for the purpose of parking enforcement to capture and store 
digital license data including identifying vehicles eligible for tow due to overdue citations, and 
for electronically “chalking” vehicles to enforce time limited parking spaces. Any ALPR data 
collected for parking enforcement purposes will be handled in accordance with the City’s ALPR 
policy. The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance for the capture, storage and use of 
digital data obtained through the use of Automated License Plate Recognition (ALPR) 
technology. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
50 of 282

--- page 51 ---
2.2 Communication and Citation Issuance Equipment 
LAZ will provide the handheld electronic ticket writers, software, printers, and smartphones for 
all staff. The ticketPRO Magic parking app will be installed and configured with the City of San 
Mateo information by Turbo Data. Remote support and remote upgrade will be available on 
each phone. Turbo Data will provide complete configuration and set up of each unit at the start 
of the program. Each smart phone will be set up with a push-to-talk application (similar to a 
two-way radio) and group texting capability using Microsoft Team for pass downs and group 
messaging. LAZ will provide the City’s designated program representative or communication 
center with one smart phone with the same push-to-talk app as the field personnel to enable 
two-way communication between City and field personnel.  
2.3 Office  
LAZ will secure an office location within City limits that will provide a location for PERs to clock 
in/out, attend daily briefings, have access to a computer and have a breakroom.  
2.4 Other Equipment  
LAZ will supply the needed quantity of safety vests, chalks, flashlights, whistles. Each 
enforcement vehicle will also be equipped with safety kits and cones. For the office, TimeForce 
(biometrics) timeclock, computers, printers and company issued laptop is provided to the Site 
Manager for remote management of the program while off site.  
 
Task 3 - Hiring of Personnel - Recruiting, Onboarding, and Employee Development 
3.1 Employment Requirements 
All new employees will be required to meet all City and LAZ employment requirements. LAZ will 
comply with all existing Government Code and City of San Mateo policies. LAZ will also comply 
with all the City’s standards and requirements for employees and acknowledges that the City 
reserves the right to be involved in the recruitment and selection process of new contract 
enforcement personnel. Further, the City reserves the right to refuse or revoke, at any time, a 
Contractor’s employee from performing services in San Mateo for any reason as mentioned in 
the RFP.   
All new employees will go through a thorough pre-screen process, and only candidates with the 
highest likelihood of being successful will be selected. First priority will be given to current City 
parking enforcement personnel, and will be invited to apply for open positions before public 
advertisement. 
Candidates to be offered a position must meet San Mateo’s Personnel requirements, in 
addition to LAZ  requirements, which include passing a strict prescreening consisting of pre-
employment drug screen, background check, DMV record check, Social Security Number 
verification, and eligibility to work in the United States. After successful completion of 
employment prescreen, each new hire undergoes a comprehensive training program including 
employee orientation, detailed and extensive procedures training, and project and employee 
expectations briefings.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
51 of 282

--- page 52 ---
3.2 Record Keeping and Reporting 
LAZ will maintain project files and records per City’s record retention policy and throughout the 
term of this contract. All project records (electronic and paper) will include operations and 
maintenance guidelines. These include officer shift logs, citation activity reports, meeting 
agendas and minutes; management and staffing plans; staffing reports and schedules; updates 
to these documents; project staff training; plus all manuals, systems maintenance records, 
training records, systems plans and installation records, and other correspondence. Citation 
mapping and violation heat maps may also be utilized to provide a visual review of daily, 
weekly, and monthly citation activity and violation capture.  
 
Task 4 – Training 
4.1 Training and Personnel Development: 
LAZ will provide extensive in-house training with a formal induction program for new 
employees, continuing on-the-job training, and participation in training offered by the LAZ 
Online Academy, which meets the City’s training requirements. LAZ staff working at this project 
will go through a 24-hour classroom style Initial Training and 40 hours of on-the-job training 
including field training with LAZ supervisory staff. As needed, re-training and/or follow-up 
training required to correct deficiencies in performance will be conducted. LAZ will also provide 
staff with at least eight (8) hours of annual refresher courses and training. Topics will include, 
but are not limited to, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), changes in the law, new aspects 
of the City’s parking program, refresher or expanded training in customer relations, and conflict 
resolution. Continuing training, subject matter, and schedules will be reviewed and approved 
by the City representative prior to any training taking place. 
Initial Training: All new hires will go through the Initial Training, which will include: New Hire 
Orientation (4 hours), Parking Enforcement Basics (4 hours), Customer Service/Conflict 
Resolution Training/Ambassador Program (8 hours), Physical layout of the City, SOP Training 
including Handheld/Ticket Writing, tasks and responsibilities under regular and emergency 
operating conditions, and parking enforcement programs and policies adopted by the City of 
San Mateo (8 hours), Field Training: 40 hours 
 
Annual Refresher Training includes but is not limited to: Ambassador Program. Customer 
Service Training, Conflict Resolution, Harassment Awareness Training, Parking Enforcement 
Program, Legal Update. SOP training. 
 
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)  
LAZ will conduct SOP training with an ambassador approach and cover the following topics:  
• Enforcing parking meter, permit, posted sign violations and other parking regulations  
• Marking, tagging, towing and impoundment of vehicles  
• San Mateo Municipal Code and California Vehicle Codes related to parking enforcement  
• City and Department Policies and procedures  
• Job procedures, emergency protocol and workplace safety 
• Customer service delivery and expectations  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
52 of 282

--- page 53 ---
• Courtroom procedures and testimony techniques 
• Responding to calls for service 
 
Task 5 - Uniforms 
City must approve all uniform components. LAZ will provide staff with a sufficient number of 
uniform shirts and pants to make sure they maintain a professional appearance at all times. All 
staff will also be issued jackets and hats for inclement weather. Additionally, LAZ will provide 
staff with photo identification, name tags, and badges that clearly state the company name and 
the staff person’s name. Subject to City approval, LAZ will provide:  
Blue or black uniform shirts and dark trousers, black leather boots/shoes, black leather belt, 
silver color name plate, operable 3 cell flashlights for night officers, high visibility traffic safety 
vests, highly visible rain gear, dark blue or black baseball cap. The standard LAZ ID badges 
containing the employee’s picture and LAZ employee ID number, which the employees will 
wear at all times while on duty. 
 
Task 6 – Optional Services 
The City may require LAZ to provide traffic control services for special events as an optional 
service. LAZ will provide customized traffic control training to all enforcement personnel. Each 
PER will be supplied with whistles, white gloves and reflective traffic safety vests. All of these 
items including traffic cones will be kept in each enforcement vehicle so they can promptly 
respond to any calls for service for traffic control. These optional services will be billed per the 
billing rates in Exhibit B.  
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
53 of 282

--- page 54 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 9 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
EXHIBIT B 
 
PAYMENT RATES 
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
54 of 282

--- page 55 ---
Contract Year
Hourly 
Monthly 
Annual Hours
Annually
PEO - Time & Material (T&M)
*Partial Year (8 months)
Year 1
$36.88
14,080
$519,331
Year 2
$38.62
21,120
$815,689
Year 3
$40.36
21,120
$852,462
Year 4
$42.10
21,120
$889,235
PM - Time & Material (T&M)
*Partial Year (8 months)
Year 1
$86.51
1,280
$110,739
Year 2
$88.27
1,920
$169,479
Year 3
$90.07
1,920
$172,936
Year 4
$91.91
1,920
$176,464
Other Direct Charges (ODCs)
*Partial Year (8 months)
Year 1
$18,382
$147,052
Year 2
$18,500
$221,999
Year 3
$18,624
$223,483
Year 4
$18,747
$224,966
Automated License Plate Technology 
ALPR Support Services
*Partial Year (8 months)
Year 1
$2,486
$19,886
Year 2
$2,486
$29,828
Year 3
$2,486
$29,828
Year 4
$2,486
$29,828
Estimated Annual Contract Value 
Year 1
$797,008
Year 2
$1,236,996
Year 3
$1,278,710
Year 4
$1,320,494
(Partial Year - 8 Months)
Contract Pricing Schedule 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
55 of 282

--- page 56 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
EXHIBIT C 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
 
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate limit 
applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or the 
general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if Contractor 
has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no less than 
$1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury 
or disease.  
If the contractor maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and shall be 
entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the contractor. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as additional 
insureds on the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by 
or on behalf of the Contractor; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or 
operations performed by or on behalf of the Contractor including materials, parts or equipment 
furnished in connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the 
form of an endorsement to the Contractor’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 
or both CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the Contractor’s insurance coverage shall be primary insurance 
as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or agents shall be 
excess of the Contractor’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
Contractor hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said Contractor 
may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  Contractor 
agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of subrogation, but this 
provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of subrogation 
endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
56 of 282

--- page 57 ---
Contract for Services with SB854 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev. 9/17 
 
Upon written request, Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by 
the City, of which the City’s approval will not be unreasonably withheldThe City may require the 
Contractor to provide proof of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, 
and defense expenses within the retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
Contractor shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies of 
the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the Contractor’s 
obligation to provide them.   
 
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9F584C92-89A9-46C1-AAA8-BC8D6C34F85A
Signing In Process
57 of 282

--- page 58 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4288
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT: Interim Community Benefit Framework for Future Development Projects – Interim Process  
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to document the interim process for determining community benefits and public improvements for 
certain development projects.
BACKGROUND:
There are several scenarios where an applicant or property owner may be required to provide community benefits beyond 
code requirements as part of their development application. These additional benefits are typically provided as part of a 
development agreement negotiation or as required by existing General Plan goals and policies, and are only required in 
circumstances when a developer has a request that exceeds baseline City standards: 
1.
Development Agreement: Government Code Section 65865 authorizes cities to enter into development 
agreements with developers. The purpose of development agreements is to allow developers to vest standards in 
effect at the time an agreement is signed – in exchange for providing benefits beyond standard fees, mitigations 
and conditions of approval (which must have a nexus to project impacts). Subsection (c) of Government Code 
Section 65865 requires cities to adopt procedures for the consideration of development agreements by either 
ordinance or resolution. The City of San Mateo has adopted development agreement procedures by resolution 
(Attachment 2).
2.
General Plan Provisions: There are several General Plan provisions that allow for increased height in exchange for 
community benefit/public improvements (refer to Attachment 3 – Existing Goals and Policies). These provisions 
include:
a)
General Plan Land Use Element (Attachment 3, policy LU 1.4) includes a citywide policy allowing for 
consideration of higher densities/intensities and heights with the provision of public benefits. The policy 
allows for increased heights up to 75 feet for projects that “provide substantial public benefits and 
amenities” in certain areas of the city. These areas include the El Camino Real corridor area and the State 
Route 92/Grant Street/Concar Drive/Delaware Street vicinity. Attachment 4 provides a link to the height 
map.
b)
General Plan Land Use Element (Attachment 3, policies PA 5.1, 7.6, 8.1 and 9.2) includes a requirement for 
the City to adopt design criteria that allow for buildings along El Camino Real to exceed the building height 
of 40 feet, up to a maximum of 55 feet, provided the project meets certain standards. Adopted in 2016, 
the “Mid and South El Camino Real 40-55 Foot Building Height Design Guidelines” contains design 
standards that are applied to projects seeking the additional height.  The General Plan policies state:
58 of 282

--- page 59 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
“For lots 100 feet deep and less, maximum building height is 40 feet. For lots more than 100 feet deep, 
permit heights up to 55 feet for projects which meet the following criteria and are approved by the City 
Council”:
o
The project provides amenities, such as landscaped plazas, covered parking, setbacks from the 
street, stepbacks of upper stories, and public improvements substantially in excess of City 
requirements;
o
The building has high design quality, which is enhanced by additional building height;
o
Increased building heights are visually related to surrounding building heights and promote the 
creation of a coherent City image;
o
Increased building heights are compatible with surrounding land uses, and will not create 
adverse shadow or visual impacts on surrounding residential uses; and
o
The City's infrastructure is adequate to accommodate the proposed development.”
c)
General Plan Land Use Element (Attachment 2, policies PA 5.2) allows for buildings in the State Route 
92/Grant Street/Concar Drive/Delaware Street vicinity to exceed the building height of 40 feet, up to a 
maximum of 75 feet, provided the project meets certain standards. The General Plan policy states:
“Permit densities up to 75 units per acre, and heights greater than 40 feet but up to a maximum of 75 
feet for projects in the area designated in the Land Use Plan (LU-3) as Regional/Community 
Commercial which is bounded by South Grant Street, US 101, SR 92 and the north property line of the 
Dunfey Hotel, which meet the following criteria and are approved by the City Council”:
o
The project provides amenities, such as landscaped plazas, and public improvements, 
substantially in excess of those required by City standards;
o
The building has high design quality, which is enhanced by additional building height;
o
Increased building heights are visually related to surrounding building heights and promote the 
creation of a coherent City image;
o
Increased building heights are compatible with surrounding land uses, and will not create 
adverse shadow or visual impacts on surrounding residential uses; and
o
The City's infrastructure is adequate to accommodate the proposed development.”
The above policies describe certain project features and allow the City to consider “…improvements substantially in excess 
of City requirements”, however, the policies do not specify the type of public improvements or community benefits that 
should be provided. Furthermore, the policies do not quantify the appropriate value of “substantial” improvements. 
Recent Council Review
On April 6, 2020, the City Council held a study session to provide feedback on a proposed framework for an interim 
community benefits program. This is an “interim program” because a more comprehensive and detailed program will be 
completed in conjunction with the General Plan Update process. Extensive community outreach will also be completed as 
part of that process. Although no formal action was taken due to the Study Session format, there appeared to consensus 
on the following components of an interim program, as follows:
59 of 282

--- page 60 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

An economic land-use consultant should be hired by the City when applicants request to exceed development 
standards or enter into a development agreement. This expert will confirm the appropriate monetary value of the 
proposed community benefits given the value of the increased development standards.  Depending on the size 
and scope of the project, the economic consultant should calculate the expected community benefit as a starting 
point for negotiation, or peer review the benefits proposed to determine whether the value is appropriate.

Onsite and neighborhood-focused benefits should be prioritized during development negotiations. The specific 
improvements will vary by development, but in all cases, community input should help shape the community 
benefit package. A list of possible improvements is detailed in the discission section below.
Following the Council Study Session, staff has utilized the interim process for two proposed developments. In both cases, 
staff has hired an economic land use consultant at the applicant’s expense to verify that the proposed community benefits 
are adequate given proposed increase in development standards. Staff has also directed that the community benefits be 
focused onsite or within the immediate neighborhood. Two other projects that were under consideration at the time of 
the April 2020 Council Study are currently paused due to changing market conditions.  Additional details about these 
projects and process are detailed in the Discussion section.
DISCUSSION: 
Program Structure: Quantifying and Specifying Community Benefits and Community Improvements.
Appropriate Value of Community Benefits
Although increased building height and a longer vesting period certainly can increase the value of a development, it is 
challenging to quantify the exact dollar amount of those increases. Therefore, as noted above, the Council directed that 
staff contract with an economic land-use consultant. This expert will determine or confirm the appropriate monetary value 
of the proposed community benefits given the development capacity increase (or certainty provided by a development 
agreement).   
Potential Community Benefits and Public Improvements
At the April 2020 Study Session, staff presented a table that listed potential community benefits and public improvements. 
The list of improvements reflected community feedback received during public workshops and community meetings, 
including the General Plan and the Home for All Community Conversations. Throughout these meetings, the top two 
priorities for the community were housing and circulation. The Council agreed that housing and transportation focused 
community benefits and public improvements were appropriate given current community needs.  
As noted above, the Council also agreed projects should provide community benefits and public improvements onsite (and 
available to the public) or in the nearby neighborhood, rather than funding improvements in other areas of the City. An 
updated version of this table is shown below at Table 1.  
There are several important aspects to note about the public benefits detailed in this table:

All developments are required to pay fees and make certain improvements based on the impacts of their project. 
Payment of standards fees and construction of baseline improvements are not considered community benefits. In 
order to be considered a community benefit, the contributions must exceed standard requirements.

Council acknowledging this list as the preferred list of improvements is important, as it will create a sense of 
certainty for the community, developers, and staff. However, developments vary in size, scope and location, and a 
developer must work with staff and the community in the beginning of the process to select the appropriate 
benefits.

While the benefits may be provided onsite or in the neighborhood, they usually still do have a positive citywide 
impact. For example, additional onsite affordable housing helps the City meet its housing goals, and the 
60 of 282

--- page 61 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
construction of a protected bike lane would help everyone get across the city.
Table 1: List of Community Benefits and Public Improvements
Transportation
Implementation of improvements identified in Traffic Action Plans (TAPs)
Infrastructure – curb, gutter, drainage, green infrastructure, trash capture, roadway, traffic signal upgrades, traffic 
signal interconnect/communication network improvements nearby the project site (beyond those normally provided 
via project nexus)
Nearby bike and pedestrian improvements
Nearby pedestrian-scale lighting improvements
Nearby ADA right-of-way improvements
Contribution for last-mile transportation services (i.e. shuttles)
Payment toward traffic improvements above the required Transportation Impact Fee (TIF)
Contribution to public parking fund (currently only available for projects within Central Parking Improvement 
District area, potential to collect funds to provide help provide public parking near train stations)
Housing
Additional affordable housing units above the inclusionary or density bonus requirement
Acquisition of existing market rate housing units to convert into affordable
Contribution towards City housing funds
Contribution of land for affordable housing
Parks/Open Space
Contribution for park improvements
Contribution for recreation center improvements/construction
Contribution of land for public parks
Provide additional privately-owned public open spaces (POPOs) within project (i.e. Linear Park  at Bay Meadows I)
Other
Provide day care within project
Monetary contribution to the City
Recent Projects
Over the past several decades, very few projects have proposed to exceed baseline development standards and cause the 
additional community benefit requirement. However, at the time of the April 2020 Council report, there were four projects 
under consideration that required community benefits as part of the application package. As noted below, one project has 
been approved, one is under review, and two are currently on-hold due to economic conditions.
The following provides details for each project:

Concar Passage (approved):  The project includes 961 dwelling units, 32,000 SF of commercial/retail space, a
daycare facility, and over 3 acres of open space and recreational amenity areas. The development also included a 
significant amount of deed-restricted onsite affordable housing, and substantial funding for nearby traffic 
congestion-related improvements. A copy of this economic report, which helped guide City decision making 
process, is attached to this report.  

1 Hayward Ave (under review):  The project includes 17 dwelling units and 5,353 SF of office. This project is 
currently under review, and an economic consultant is reviewing the project.

Jasmine St/El Camino Real (under review) – The project includes 44 dwelling units and 9,809 SF of office.  This 
project is currently under review, and an economic consultant will be reviewing the project at the appropriate 
juncture in the entitlement process.
61 of 282

--- page 62 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

2850 S. El Camino Real (awaiting a formal application): The project includes 18 residential units, 7,500 SF of retail, 
and 1,340 SF of office. The pre-application process is complete for this project; when a formal application has been 
submitted, the economic consultant will review the project.
Ongoing Fee Increase Studies
The City is currently studying several possible fee increases that would be applied to future development. Possible fee 
increases include development-related fees (planning/building review), transportation impact fee, as well as sewer fees. 
While it is critically important for the City to capture all fees necessary to offset the cost of new development, it is also 
important to recognize that when fees increase, there will be less “value” to capture from development. The total cost of 
fees is a key variable that an economic consultant uses to determine the appropriate value of community benefit.
Longer Term Program 
A comprehensive and detailed community benefits program will be completed as part of the General Plan Update and 
subsequent Zoning Code Update process. While the long-term program may still include case-by-case economic studies, 
more thought can be given to which community benefits are appropriate for specific sites, areas of the City, and types of 
development.  There are examples of community benefit programs throughout the Bay Area that can be used as examples 
and help guide program development. Most importantly, the extensive community outreach associated with the General 
Plan Update will allow the public to weigh-in on options.
NEXT STEPS: 
City staff will continue to use these guidelines to shape the community benefits associated with upcoming developments. 
Staff will periodically check-in with Council to confirm the list of preferred community benefits and neighborhood 
approach to implementation. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no impact to the budget resulting from this report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061 (b)(3), providing feedback to staff regarding prioritized community 
benefits is not a project covered by CEQA, because the City Council is providing guidance and future development projects 
and amendments will be analyzed independently under CEQA.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – Resolution No. 120 (1990) Establishing Procedures and Requirements for the Consideration of Development 
Agreements
Att 3 – Existing Goals and Policies
Att 4 – City of San Mateo General Plan Height Plan
Att 5 – Mid and South El Camino Real 40-55 Foot Building Height Design – Map on Page 5
Att 6 – Economic Study for Concar Passage
STAFF CONTACT
Sailesh Mehra, Planning Manager
smehra@cityofsanmateo.org
6505227203
62 of 282

--- page 63 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
ADOPT INTERIM COMMUNITY BENEFITS PROGRAM
WHEREAS, property owners and applicants periodically request to enter into development agreements 
to vest their development entitlements for longer periods of time;
WHEREAS, the Government Code Section 65865 authorizes cities to enter into development agreements 
with developers, and the City of San Mateo adopted development agreement procedures by resolution 
(Resolution No. 120, 1990);
WHEREAS, property owners and applicants periodically request to exceed the City’s standard height 
limit in certain areas of the City;
WHEREAS, there are several General Plan Land-Use Element policies that allow for increased height in 
exchange for community benefit/public improvements in certain areas of the City;
WHEREAS, longer entitlement vesting periods and increases in height limit increase the value of the 
development. In exchange for their development value increasing, an applicant must provide community 
benefits/public improvements;
WHEREAS, developments vary in size, scope and geographical location, and therefore the value of a 
vesting period extension and height increase will vary by project;
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the monetary value of community benefits should be proportional 
to the increase in value associated with an extended vesting period or height increase; 
WHEREAS, an economic land use expert can estimate the monetary value of the extended vesting 
period and height increase, 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that an applicant must outreach to the immediate neighborhood as 
part of the required preliminary planning application process. During that outreach, the developer should seek 
feedback regarding community benefits;  
WHEREAS, a list of potential community benefits is attached to this resolution. The City Council may 
update this list on a periodic basis;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
An economic land-use consultant should be hired by the City when an applicant requests to enter into a 
development agreement to extend the vesting period of their development or exceed the height limit. 
This expert will confirm the appropriate monetary value of the proposed community benefits given the 
value of the extended vesting period or increased development standards.
2.
Onsite and neighborhood-focused benefits should be prioritized during development negotiations. The 
specific improvements will vary by development, but in all cases, community input should help shape 
the community benefit package. A list is possible improvement is attached to this resolution.
63 of 282

--- page 64 ---
3.
This program shall be in effect for an interim period, until such time that the General Plan Update and 
related zoning code update is adopted. The General Plan and Zoning Code Update process will include 
extensive community outreach focused on community benefits, and will include adoption more detailed 
community benefits program;
4.
In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061 (b)(3), adopting this interim program is not a project 
covered by CEQA, because the City Council is providing guidance and future development agreements 
and development projects will be analyzed independently under CEQA
64 of 282

--- page 65 ---
Resolution Exhibit 1: List of Community Benefits and Public Improvements
Transportation
Implementation of improvements identified in Traffic Action Plans (TAPs)
Infrastructure – curb, gutter, drainage, green infrastructure, trash capture, roadway, traffic 
signal upgrades, traffic signal interconnect/communication network improvements nearby 
the project site (beyond those normally provided via project nexus)
Nearby bike and pedestrian improvements
Nearby pedestrian-scale lighting improvements
Nearby ADA right-of-way improvements
Contribution for last-mile transportation services (i.e. shuttles)
Payment toward traffic improvements above the required Transportation Impact Fee (TIF)
Contribution to public parking fund (currently only available for projects within Central 
Parking Improvement District area, potential to collect funds to provide help provide public 
parking near train stations)
Housing
Additional affordable housing units above the inclusionary or density bonus requirement
Acquisition of existing market rate housing units to convert into affordable
Contribution towards City housing funds
Contribution of land for affordable housing
Parks/Open Space
Contribution for park improvements
Contribution for recreation center improvements/construction
Contribution of land for public parks
Provide additional privately owned public open spaces (POPOs) within project (i.e. Linear Park 
at Bay Meadows I)
Other
Provide day care within project
Monetary contribution to the City
65 of 282

--- page 66 ---
/3Q_—

RESOLUTION NO. _129 (1990)

ESTABLISHING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
FOR THE CONSIDERATION OF
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS

RESOLVED by the Council of the City of San Mateo,
California.

WHEREAS, the State Legislature has found and declared
that:

“(a) The lack of certainty in the approval of
developmental projects can result in a waste of resources,
escalate the cost of housing and other development to the
consumer, and discourage investment in and commitment to
comprehensive planning which would make maximum efficient
utilization of resources at the least economic cost to the
public.

(b) Assurance to the applicant for a development
project that upon approval of the project, the applicant may
proceed with the project in accordance with existing policies,
rules and regulations, and subject to conditions of approval,
will strengthen the public planning process, encourage private
participation in comprehensive planning and reduce the economic
costs of development.

(c) The lack of public facilities, including, but not
limited to, streets, Sewerage, transportation, drinking water,
school and utility facilities, is a serious impediment to the
development of new housing. Whenever possible, applicants and
local governments may include provisions in agreements whereby
applicants are reimbursed over time for financing public
facilities." (Government Code Section 65864); and

WHEREAS, the Legislature therefore adopted Government
Code sections 65864 through 65869.5 authorizing cities to enter
into development agreements; and

WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65865(c) requires
- that cities shall, if requested by an applicant, establish
procedures and requirements for consideration of development
agreements; and

WHEREAS, the City of San Mateo has received a request
to establish such procedures and requirements.

NOW THEREFORE, IT IS DETERMINED and ORDERED as follows:

Section 1. Authorization for adoption. These
procedures are adopted under the authority of Government Code

sections 65864 - 65869.5.

4269G/13 1

ADICIMAL

&nbsp;
66 of&nbsp;282


--- page 67 ---
Section 2. Authorization.

(a) The City may enter into a development agreement
with a person having a legal or equitable interest in real
property within the City for the development of the property as
provided in this resolution.

(b) The City may enter into a development agreement
with a person having a legal or equitable interest in real
property in unincorporated territory within the City's sphere
of influence for the development of the property as provided in
this resolution. However, the agreement shall not become
operative unless annexation proceedings annexing the property
to the City are completed within the period of time specified
by the agreement. .

If the annexation is not completed within the time
specified in the agreement or any extension of the agreement,
the agreement is null and void.

Section 3. Application. Application for a
development agreement shall be made to the Department of
Community Development. An application for a development
agreement may not be filed prior to an application for a
development project on the same property. The application
shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed by the City fee
schedule, established pursuant to the San Mateo Municipal Code,
and shall be accompanied by the form of development agreement
proposed by the applicant. When the application is determined
to be complete, the Director of Community Development or
designee shall, at the applicant's expense, review the
application and transmit it, together with staff
recommendations, to the Planning Commission.

Section 4. Contents. A development agreement shall
specify the land subject to the agreement, the duration of the
agreement, the permitted uses of the property, the density or
intensity of use, the maximum height and size of proposed
buildings, and provisions for reservation or dedication of land
for public purposes. The development agreement may include
conditions, terms, restrictions, and requirements for
subsequent discretionary actions, provided that such
conditions, terms, restrictions, and requirements for
subsequent discretionary actions shall not prevent development
of the land for the uses and to the density or intensity of
development set forth in the agreement. The agreement may
provide that construction shall be commenced within a specified
time and that the project or any phase thereof be completed
within a specified time.

The agreement may also include terms and conditions

relating to applicant financing of necessary public facilities
in conjunction with the phasing of the development project.

4269G/13 . 2

&nbsp;
67 of&nbsp;282


--- page 68 ---
Section 5. Rules, regulations and official policies.

Unless otherwise provided by the development agreement, rules,
regulations, and official policies governing permitted uses of
the land, governing density, and governing design, improvement,
and construction standards and specifications, applicable to
development of the property subject to a development agreement,
shall be those rules, regulations, and official policies in
force at the time of execution of the agreement. A development
agreement shall not prevent the City, in subsequent actions
applicable to the property, from applying new rules,
regulations, and policies which do not conflict with those
rules, regulations, and policies applicable to the property as
set forth in the development agreement, nor shall a development
agreement prevent the City from denying or conditionally
approving any subsequent development project application on the
basis of such existing or new rules, regulations, and policies.

Section 6. Public hearing and notice of intention to
consider adoption. A public hearing on an application for a
development agreement shall be held by the Planning Commission
and by the City Council. Notice of intention to consider
adoption of a development agreement shall be given as provided
in California Government Code sections 65090 and 65091, and San
Mateo Municipal Code section 27.06.050, in addition to any
other notice required by law for other actions to be considered
concurrently with the development agreement.

Section 7. Legislative act. A development agreement
is a legislative act which shall be approved by ordinance and
is subject to referendum. This resolution only establishes
procedures for consideration of development agreements; the
City Council retains discretion to approve or disapprove any
proposed development agreement. A development agreement shall
not be approved unless the City Council finds that the
provisions of the agreement:

(a) are consistent with the City's General Plan and
any applicable specific plan,

(b) are compatible with the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance, and

(c) provide substantial public benefits to persons
residing or owning property outside the boundaries
of the development project, beyond the exactions
for public benefits required in the normal
development review process under federal, state or
local law.

Section 8. Amendment or termination.

(a) Periodic review. The Planning Commission shall
review the development agreement at least every 12 months, at
which time the applicant or successor in interest thereto,

4269G/13 3

&nbsp;
68 of&nbsp;282


--- page 69 ---
shall be required to demonstrate good faith compliance with the
terms of the agreement. If, as a result of such periodic
review, the Planning Commission determines that, on the basis
of substantial evidence, the agreement has been complied with
in good faith, such decision shall be subject to appeal in
accordance with procedures set forth in San Mateo Municipal
Code Section 27.08.090. If, as a result of such periodic
review, the Planning Commission determines that, on the basis
of substantial evidence, the agreement has not been complied
with in good faith, or that the failure of the City to
terminate or modify the provisions of the development agreement
would place the residents of the territory subject to the
development agreement, or the residents of the City, or both,
in a condition dangerous to their health or safety, or both,
the City Council shall hold a public hearing to consider
terminating or modifying the agreement. Notice of such hearing
shall be given as set forth in Section 6 of this resolution.

If the City Council determines, on the basis of substantial
evidence, that the applicant or successor in interest thereto
has not complied in good faith with the terms or conditions of
the agreement, or that the failure of the City to terminate or
modify the provisions of the development agreement would place
the residents of the territory subject to the development
agreement, or the residents of the City, or both, ina
condition dangerous to their health or safety, or both, the
Council may terminate or modify the agreement.

(b) Mutual consent. A development agreement may be
amended, or canceled in whole or in part, by mutual consent of
the parties to the agreement or their successors in interest.
Notice of a public hearing regarding an intention to amend or
cancel any portion of the agreement shall be given and held in
the manner provided in Section 6 of this resolution. An
amendment to a development agreement shall be subject to the
provisions of Section 7 of this resolution.

(c) State or federal laws and regulations. In the

event that state or federal laws or regulations, enacted after
a development agreement has been entered into, prevent or
preclude compliance with one or more provisions of the
development agreement, such provisions of the agreement shall
be modified or suspended as may be necessary to comply with
such state or federal laws and regulations.

Section 9. Enforcement. Unless amended or canceled
pursuant to Section 8 herein, a development agreement shall be
enforceable by any party thereto, notwithstanding any change in
any applicable general or specific plan, zoning, subdivision,
or building regulation adopted by the City, which alters or
amends the rules, regulations, or policies specified in Section
5 herein.

4269G/13 4

&nbsp;
69 of&nbsp;282


--- page 70 ---
Section 10. Execution and Recordation.

(a) No development shall be executed by the Mayor
until it has been executed by the applicant. If
the applicant has not executed the agreement, as
approved by the City Council, within thirty days
of the City Council approval, the application for
development agreement shall be deemed withdrawn,
and a Mayor shall not execute the agreement.

(b) No later than 10 days after the City enters into a
development agreement, the City shall record with
the County Recorder a copy of the agreement, which
shall describe the land subject thereto. From and
after the time of such recordation, the agreement
shall impart such notice thereof to all persons as
is afforded by the recording laws of this state.
The burdens of the agreement shall be binding
upon, and.the benefits of the agreement shall
inure to, all successors in interest to the
parties to the agreement.

Section ll. _Environmental Finding. The Council finds
that the adoption of this resolution is not a project for the
purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act, and
therefore, no environmental impact assessment is necessary.

Section 12. Effective Date. This resolution shall
become effective sixty days after its adoption, together with
its companion resolution adopting a fee for the processing of
development agreements.

Dated: _October 15. 1990

ATTEST:
"Chey Clerk
4269G/13 5

&nbsp;
70 of&nbsp;282


--- page 71 ---
ke

Resolution adopted by the City Council of
the City of San Mateo, California, at a
regular aeewing held on October 15, 1990,
by the following vote of the Council

members:

AYES: Council Members POWELL, MACK,
RHOADS, BAKER and GUMBINGER

NOES: NONE

ABSENT: NONE

&nbsp;
71 of&nbsp;282


--- page 72 ---
EXISTING GOALS AND POLICIES
The following are applicable goals and policies from the General Plan (2030).
GENERAL PLAN – LAND USE ELEMENT
C.
GOALS AND POLICIES
CITY WIDE
POLICY LU 1.4: 
Development Intensity/Density. Adopt and maintain the development 
intensity/density limits as identified on the Land Use Map and Building Intensity 
Plan, and as specified in Policy LU 6A.2. Development intensity/density shall 
recognize natural environmental constraints, such as flood plains, earthquake faults, 
debris flow areas, hazards, traffic and access, necessary services, and general 
community and neighborhood design. Maintain a density and building intensity 
range, with densities/intensities at the higher end of the range to be considered 
based on provision of public benefits such as affordable housing, increased open 
space, public plazas or recreational facilities, or off-site infrastructure 
improvements. 
In addition to criteria such as community design, protection of single-family neighborhoods, avoidance 
of population overcrowding and traffic congestion, the determination of appropriate intensity and 
density limitations has taken into account natural environmental constraints such as topography and 
geotechnical hazards. Hazards such as landslide, flooding, and wildfire are discussed in detail in the 
Safety Element. 
Density of residential development is generally thought of as the number of dwelling units per acre. 
However, State Planning Law requires that density also be expressed as population density: the number 
of persons in a given land area. Density is displayed in both forms in the Land Use Plan, Figure LU-3 and 
in the Land Use Categories, Appendix B.
The plan permits new multi-family residential development at a range of densities from 9 to 50 units net 
per acre, with the higher end of the density range to be used only for projects which provide substantial 
public benefits or amenities. Residential development is also allowed in commercial districts. If expected 
development takes place, the city-wide average density is expected to increase from 10 to at least 12 
units per net acre. 
72 of 282

--- page 73 ---
Building intensity is a measurement of the amount of physical development allowed on a parcel. The 
Land Use Element utilizes a combination of building height and floor area ratio (FAR) (the gross floor 
area of a building divided by the net lot area to measure building intensity. 
The plan anticipates a range of new non-residential development by providing an FAR range of 0.5 up to 
a theoretical maximum of 3.0, and by establishing a range of permitted building heights from 25 feet to 
90 feet. Higher height limits and the higher end of the FAR range are available only for projects which 
provide public benefits or amenities substantially greater than code requirements. 
The city-wide average FAR is expected to increase from .59, but to stay below .70, while average height 
will remain less than 45 feet.
(Refer to LU Element, page II-9)
3. 
AREAS OF SPECIAL CONCERN.
b.
El Camino Real. 
GOAL 3b: 
Promote residential land uses and the visual improvement of El Camino Real. 
POLICY LU 3.3: 
El Camino Real. Retain the general residential and landscaped character of El 
Camino Real north of Tilton Avenue. Promote the visual upgrading of El Camino Real 
south of Ninth Avenue through increased landscaping, coordination of public 
improvements, property maintenance, and sign control, through conformance with 
the El Camino Real Master Plan. Residential uses shall be encouraged to provide 
diversity to the existing commercial character, and building setbacks from adjoining 
residences used to reduce perceived building mass from El Camino Real. Pedestrian 
activity and safety should be encouraged. 
El Camino Real is the dominant commercial boulevard and heavily traveled local corridor in the City. Its 
long linear form and strip commercial development help mold strong visual images, portions of which 
may be judged to be unpleasant. More than most other local corridors the street image strongly affects 
the overall City image. El Camino Real's image should be improved through coordinated comprehensive 
public and private improvements which follow the guidelines and standards in the El Camino Real 
Master Plan. Economic development strategies should also be considered as part of any improvement 
effort along El Camino Real. 
In 2001, the City Council adopted the El Camino Real Master Plan which provides a vision for 
enhancements to El Camino Real from SR 92 to the Belmont City Limits border. The Master Plan 
provides infrastructure and guidelines to create a vibrant mixed-use community that encourages 
pedestrian and bicycle activity and safety. The Master Plan includes a streetscape plan for public 
improvements such as landscaping medians, creating theme intersections with landscaping and street 
furniture, and recommendations for parking enhancements. Design guidelines address the character of 
private development along the El Camino Real corridor. Topics such as building facades, setbacks, 
building form, location of parking, and signage are discussed in the guidelines. The Master Plan identifies 
a range of land uses for El Camino Real from infill development to larger scale transit-oriented 
development around the Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain stations. 
73 of 282

--- page 74 ---
Through the Grand Boulevard Initiative Plan, which is a collaboration of cities and other agencies in San 
Mateo and Santa Clara counties, the City will continue planning efforts to
(Refer to LU Element, page II-20)
AREA SPECIFIC POLICIES
The Land Use Element divides the community into 10 planning areas, as delineated on Figure
LU-1 San Mateo Planning Area, for the primary purpose of tailoring policies to the unique
characteristics of each area. These area specific policies indicate major policies within each
planning area.
(Refer to LU Element, page II-46)
3.
DOWNTOWN. 
The goals, policies, and objectives for downtown San Mateo are located in the Downtown Plan. A 
general discussion of the downtown also occurs in Section 3 of this Land Use Element. 
Provisions of the voter-approved Measure H and Measure P, which reduced building heights, floor area 
ratios and residential densities, were also incorporated, including the provisions following below (the 
Measure H and P provisions are in italics). 
a.
A Specific Plan for the Downtown was adopted by the City Council in July 1985, and 
amended in 1993 consistent with the provisions of Measure H as adopted by the 
voters in November 1991. This Specific Plan also constituted an amendment to the 
previous General Plan. 
b.
Densities up to 75 units per acre, heights up to 75’ and appropriate FARs may be 
allowed in the following areas of the Downtown, for projects which provide public 
benefits or amenities substantially greater than code requirements: 
1.
the area designated on the Land Use Plan (LU-3) as Downtown which is 
bounded by El Camino Real (SR 82), East Fourth and East Fifth avenues and 
the SPRR railroad tracks; 
2.
the area designated on the Land Use Plan (LU-3) as Downtown which is 
bounded by El Camino Real (SR 82) and Ellsworth, Baldwin and Second 
avenues; 
3.
the area designated on the Land Use Plan (LU-3) as Mixed-Use (Executive 
Office) which is bounded by El Camino Real (SR 82), San Mateo Drive, St. 
Matthews Avenue, and Baldwin Avenue; and 
4.
those properties in the area designated on the Land Use Plan (LU-3) as 
Mixed Use (Neighborhood Commercial) which are between San Mateo Drive 
and Ellsworth Avenue, and which have frontage on the north side of Baldwin 
Avenue as of 1 January 1992. 
74 of 282

--- page 75 ---
c.
Densities up to 75 units per acre, heights up to 75 feet, and appropriate FARs may be 
allowed in the following areas of the Downtown for projects which to the greatest 
extent feasible protect and preserve key historic resources in accordance with the 
following conditions: 
1.
the area designated on the Land Use Plan (LU-3) as Downtown which is 
bounded by B Street, Ellsworth Avenue, First Avenue and Second Avenue;
2.
all buildings on the site with frontage along Second Avenue or B Street which 
are identified as Individually Eligible for the National Register of Historic 
Places or contributory to a National Register Eligible Historic District as per 
the City of San Mateo Historic Building Survey dated September, 1989 (in 
this area changes in the facade or significant exterior or interior features 
shall be reviewed for their consistency with the architectural character of the 
building by applying criteria outlined in the Secretary of the Interior's 
Standards for Rehabilitation); 
3.
FARs and residential densities may be calculated based on the total site 
square footage; however the FARs and densities for buildings protected in 
accordance with paragraph (c)(2) immediately preceding may be excluded 
from the allowable FARs and densities for new construction permitted on the 
site.
(Refer to LU Element, page II-50)
4.
SHOREVIEW. 
POLICY PA 4.5: 
Norfolk/SR 92 Vicinity.  Encourage redevelopment of the area along South Norfolk 
Avenue between Susan Court and SR 92 as follows: 
1.
For properties between Norfolk Avenue and Marina Lagoon, encourage 
medium scale public-serving commercial uses, as delineated on the Building 
Height and Intensity Plans, such as retail and restaurants. Redevelopment 
shall maximize public access to and along the lagoon. 
Intensification or redevelopment of the land abutting Marina Lagoon is encouraged contingent on 
provision of continuous landscaped public access along the Lagoon from Susan Court to SR 92, and on 
achieving a building design that is oriented to and sensitive to the waterway. 
2.
Retain the Parkside Shopping Center, allowing limited expansion of low-scale 
commercial uses. Any redevelopment shall be contingent on retaining 
neighborhood retail uses and on finding no appreciable increase in through 
traffic in residential neighborhoods or significant impacts on Norfolk Street 
service levels. Provide development incentives to encourage mixed retail and 
high-density housing, should redevelopment occur. Permit heights greater 
than 35 feet, but to a maximum of 55 feet, for projects which meet the 
following criteria and are approved by the City Council. 
75 of 282

--- page 76 ---
a.
The project provides amenities, such as affordable housing, 
landscaped plazas, and public improvements, substantially in excess 
of those required by City standards; 
b.
The building has high design quality, which is enhanced by 
additional building height; 
c.
Increased building heights are visually related to surrounding 
building heights and promote the creation of a coherent City image; 
d.
Increased building heights are compatible with surrounding land 
uses, and will not create adverse shadow or visual impacts on 
surrounding residential uses; and 
e.
The City's infrastructure is adequate to accommodate the proposed 
development.
Parkside Shopping Center's location adjacent to US 101/SR 92 interchange makes it highly susceptible to 
redevelopment. However, traffic from northbound US 101 must travel through residential 
neighborhoods to reach the Center. Redevelopment to other uses is allowed contingent on the 
retention of neighborhood retail uses. Mixed use development which includes high density multi-family 
is preferred and should be encouraged with development intensity bonuses. PA 4.6: J. Hart
(Refer to LU Element, page II-52-53)
5.
HAYWARD PARK. 
PA 5.1: 
Mid-El Camino Real.
1. 
Allow commercial and high density residential use of the area between 
Ninth Avenue and SR 92, as delineated on the Building Height and Intensity 
Plans. For all buildings over two stories high, provide a minimum setback of 
ten feet adjacent to El Camino Real. Additionally, provide a minimum 
setback adjacent to residential parcels of one-half the maximum building 
height subject to the El Camino Real Master Plan. 
2. 
For lots 100 feet deep and less, maximum building height is 40 feet. For lots 
more than 100 feet deep, permit heights up to 55 feet for projects which 
meet the following criteria and are approved by the City Council: 
a.
The project provides amenities, such as landscaped plazas, covered 
parking, setbacks from the street, stepbacks of upper stories, and 
public improvements substantially in excess of City requirements; 
b.
The building has high design quality, which is enhanced by 
additional building height; 
c.
Increased building heights are visually related to surrounding 
building heights and promote the creation of a coherent City image; 
d.
Increased building heights are compatible with surrounding land 
uses, and will not create adverse shadow or visual impacts on 
surrounding residential uses; and 
e.
The City's infrastructure is adequate to accommodate the proposed 
development. 
76 of 282

--- page 77 ---
Prepare design criteria to implement this policy prior to approval of any building over 40 feet high.
In this area, El Camino Real (SR 82) is characterized by a mixture of commercial uses ranging from single-
story to high rise. It is expected that most new development will be medium scale commercial or high-
density residential or mixed-use due to the limited depth lots and potential impact on adjacent 
residential sites.
PA 5.2: 
SR 92/Grant Street/Concar Drive/Delaware Street Vicinity. For properties within 
the focal area: 
1.
Allow a concentration of large scale retail, office and hotel uses, as 
delineated on the Building Height and Intensity Maps. 
2.
Require building setbacks from the street, freeway and adjoining residential 
neighborhoods to reduce visual impacts, with greater setbacks required for 
greater heights. 
3.
Permit densities up to 75 units per acre, and heights greater than 40 feet but 
up to a maximum of 75 feet for projects in the area designated in the Land 
Use Plan (LU-3) as Regional/Community Commercial which is bounded by 
South Grant Street, US 101, SR 92 and the north property line of the Dunfey 
Hotel, which meet the following criteria and are approved by the City 
Council: 
a.
The project provides amenities, such as landscaped plazas, and 
public improvements, substantially in excess of those required by 
City standards; 
b.
The building has high design quality, which is enhanced by 
additional building height;
c.
Increased building heights are visually related to surrounding 
building heights and promote the creation of a coherent City image;
d.
Increased building heights are compatible with surrounding land 
uses, and will not create adverse shadow or visual impacts on 
surrounding residential uses; and 
e.
The City's infrastructure is adequate to accommodate the proposed 
development. 
4.
Provide development incentives for high density residential development 
adjacent to the railway. 
5.
Require that any redevelopment of the Marriot Hotel property address 
major citizen concerns pertaining to traffic, truck loading, trash/recycling 
Land Use II-56 Adopted by the City Council on October 18, 2010, Resolution 
No. 134-2010 Amended by the City Council on April 18, 2011, Resolution No. 
42 (2011) Amended by the City Council on April 6, 2015, Resolution No. 36 
(2015) activities, noise, appearance, and public safety as part of the site plan 
and design of a development proposal. 
77 of 282

--- page 78 ---
6.
Allow transit-oriented development within the Transit-Oriented 
Development (TOD) area in the vicinity of the Hayward Park station 
according to the provisions of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit Oriented 
Development Plan. 
The excellent freeway access and visibility, large lots, and area's relative isolation from residential 
neighborhoods make portions of this area favorable for large scale regional office and retail growth. The 
anticipated improvements to the Hayward Park train station at Concar Drive would add to the area's 
transit access and make it especially suitable for high-density residential development.
(Refer to LU Element, page II-54-56)
6.
MARINA LAGOON.
POLICY PA 6.3: 
Mariner's Island Specific Plan. Allow development that includes low to highdensity 
multi-family residential uses and small to large scale commercial retail and office 
uses, as delineated on the Building Height and Intensity Plans. Consider increasing 
the building intensity standards to include structured parking in the floor area ratio 
calculations. 
1.
Bridgepointe Retail and Office/Residential Site. Allow expansion and/or 
redevelopment of the Bridgepointe retail and office/residential area, 
formerly known as "The Island" Shopping Center, for any of the following 
uses, as delineated in the Bridgepointe Master Plan: high-rise, high-density 
residential; retail, offices, and hotel. Limit redevelopment potential based 
on traffic generation which is equal to, or less than, that anticipated from a 
retail mall of 0.62 floor area ratio (FAR).
2.
Ancillary Commercial Sites, Area I. Expand the list of allowable uses to 
include churches, subject to a special use permit.
3.
Height Limits. Maximum densities of up to 75 units per acre and maximum 
heights of up to 75’ and appropriate FARs may be allowed in the following 
areas of Mariner's Island, for projects which provide public benefits or 
amenities substantially greater than code requirements: 
a.
the area designated on the Land Use Plan (LU-3) as Mixed-Use 
Incentive (Regional/Community Commercial) which is commonly 
described as Fashion Island Shopping Center and is circumscribed by 
Arthur Hansen Drive; and 
b.
the area designated Executive Office on the Land Use Plan (LU-3) 
which is north of SR 92 and bounded by Fashion Island Boulevard, 
Mariner's Island Boulevard, and Fashion Island Shopping Center. 
The Bridgepointe retail and office/residential area is a very large site with excellent freeway access and 
visibility, and relative isolation from single-family neighborhoods. The site provides revenue for the City, 
creation of jobs, and needed housing. Covered parking for office use shall not be counted as floor area. 
78 of 282

--- page 79 ---
The Mariners Island Specific Plan limited floor area ratio (FAR) for this and other commercial sites in the 
area based on anticipated traffic capacity. For the Bridgepointe and adjacent office/residential property, 
a range of FAR’s is provided, based on traffic generation.
(Refer to LU Element, page II-57-58)
7.
HILLSDALE.
POLICY PA 7.6: 
South El Camino Real. 
1.
Allow commercial and high density residential use of the area of South El 
Camino Real between SR 92 and the Belmont City limits, as delineated on 
the Building Height and Intensity Plans. For all buildings over two stories 
high, provide a minimum setback of ten feet adjacent to El Camino Real. 
Additionally, provide a minimum setback adjacent to residential parcels of 
one-half the maximum building height. 
2.
For lots 100 feet deep and less, maximum building height is 40 feet. For lots 
more than 100 feet deep, permit heights up to 55 feet for projects which 
meet the following criteria and are approved by the City Council except as 
noted in 3, below: 
a. 
The project provides amenities, such as landscaped plazas, covered 
parking, setbacks from the street, stepbacks of upper stories, and 
public improvements substantially in excess of City requirements; 
b. 
The building has high design quality, which is enhanced by 
additional building height; 
c. 
Increased building heights are visually related to surrounding 
building heights and promote the creation of a coherent City image;
d. 
Increased building heights are compatible with surrounding land 
uses, and will not create adverse shadow or visual impacts on 
surrounding residential uses; and 
e. 
The City's infrastructure is adequate to accommodate the proposed 
development. 
3.
Allow transit-oriented development within the Transit-Oriented 
Development (TOD) area in the vicinity of the Hillsdale station according to 
the provisions of the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development 
Plan. 
Prepare design criteria to implement this policy prior to approval of any building over 40 feet high. 
In this area, El Camino Real (SR 82) is characterized by a mixture of low-scale commercial uses. It is 
expected that most new development will be medium scale commercial or high-density residential or 
mixed-use, due to urban design concerns and traffic congestion.
(Refer to LU Element, page II-61-62)
79 of 282

--- page 80 ---
8. 
BERESFORD PARK
POLICY PA 8.1:
South El Camino Real.
1.
Allow commercial and high density residential use of the area of South El 
Camino Real between SR 92 and 29th Avenue, as delineated on the Building 
Height and Intensity Plans. For all buildings over two stories high, provide a 
minimum setback of ten feet adjacent to El Camino Real. Additionally, 
provide a minimum setback adjacent to residential parcels of one-half the 
maximum building height. 
2.
For lots 100 feet deep and less, maximum building height is 40 feet. For lots 
more than 100 feet deep, permit heights up to 55 feet for projects which 
meet the following criteria and are approved by the City Council: 
a.
The project provides amenities, such as landscaped plazas, covered 
parking, setbacks from the street, stepbacks of upper stories, and 
public improvements substantially in excess of City requirements; 
b.
The building has high design quality, which is enhanced by 
additional building height; 
c.
Increased building heights are visually related to surrounding 
building heights and promote the creation of a coherent City image;
d.
Increased building heights are compatible with surrounding land 
uses, and will not create adverse shadow or visual impacts on 
surrounding residential uses; and 
e.
The City's infrastructure is adequate to accommodate the proposed 
development. 
Prepare design criteria to implement this policy prior to approval of any building over 40 feet high. 
The intent of this policy is the same as for other portions of El Camino Real (SR 82) as described in Policies 
PA-7.6.
(Refer to LU Element, page II-63-64)
9. 
SUGARLOAF
POLICY PA 9.2:
South El Camino Real.
1.
Allow commercial and high density residential use of the area of South El 
Camino Real between 36th and 41st avenues, as delineated on the Building 
Height and Intensity Plans. For all buildings over two stories high, provide a 
minimum setback of ten feet adjacent to El Camino Real . Additionally, 
provide a minimum setback adjacent to residential parcels of one-half the 
maximum building height subject to the El Camino Real Master Plan. 
80 of 282

--- page 81 ---
2.
For lots 100 feet deep and less, maximum building height is 40 feet. For lots 
more than 100 feet deep, permit heights up to 55 feet for projects which 
meet the following criteria and are approved by the City Council: 
a.
The project provides amenities, such as landscaped plazas, covered 
parking, setbacks from the street, stepbacks of upper stories, and 
public improvements substantially in excess of City requirements; 
b.
The building has high design quality, which is enhanced by 
additional building height; 
c.
Increased building heights are visually related to surrounding 
building heights and promote the creation of a coherent City image;
d.
Increased building heights are compatible with surrounding land 
uses, and will not create adverse shadow or visual impacts on 
surrounding residential uses; and 
e.
The City's infrastructure is adequate to accommodate the proposed 
development. 
Prepare design criteria to implement this policy prior to approval of any building over 40 feet high.
(Refer to LU Element, page II-66-67)
81 of 282

--- page 82 ---
GENERAL PLAN – URBAN DESIGN ELEMENT
B. CITY IMAGE
FOCAL POINTS
Focal points provide orientation by serving as landmarks and designating important places. The 
Downtown is a recognizable focal point because of its density, tall buildings, retail, restaurant, and 
entertainment environment and historic character. Hillsdale Shopping Center is another focal point 
because of its great number of retail shops and large scale structures at an important intersection. The 
San Francisco Bay and western hills are natural focal points. The "Crossroads" office buildings at SR 92 
and US 101 help to mark this important intersection. The Borel/Bovet offices stand just behind the SR 92 
and El Camino Real intersection and denote the major office developments lining SR 92. The office 
development at Mariner's Island marks a focal point at the eastern edge of the City that visually relates 
to development in Foster City. Other significant buildings along El Camino Real also create isolated focal 
points. 
Focal points should be developed where they logically orient people and mark significant places. The 
taller buildings in the Downtown are an excellent example of this. Intersections that mark major 
business areas are also marking significant places within the City. Misplaced focal points detract from 
the intended emphasis on important places. Tall buildings intermittently spaced along a street suggest a 
special area when it may be just part of a commercial strip.
Many things can be done to strengthen major focal points. The Downtown Specific Plan includes 
requirements for ground floor retail, and the General Plan permits mixed uses and building heights of up 
to 75 feet in the Downtown. Hillsdale Mall could be strengthened by higher floor area ratios (the ratio of 
building floor area to lot area), visible retail uses (outward focusing), and a more consistent architectural 
or landscape treatment. The office development along SR 92 could be enhanced by permitting taller 
buildings up to 75 feet in height, altering higher floor area ratios and architectural and landscape 
treatments. Focal points can be discouraged in the middle sections of El Camino (SR 82) and many other 
commercial zones by changing the zoning to permit no high-rises or buildings with excessive bulk.
(Refer to UD Element, page II-)
82 of 282

--- page 83 ---
C. CITY IMAGE GOALS AND POLICIES
GOAL 2: 
Make El Camino Real (SR 82) a livable residential and successful commercial street 
that displays a positive image of San Mateo.
POLICY UD 1.1: 
Focal Points. Emphasize and improve established focal points identified as the 
Downtown, Hillsdale Station Area, including the Caltrain Station and the Hillsdale 
Shopping Center, Bridgepointe, Hayward Park Caltrain Station and adjacent office 
development areas, the intersections of US 101 and SR 92 and SR 92 and El Camino 
Real (SR 82), and the SR 92 corridor. Encourage focal points by emphasizing a 
particular use, or feature, or through entry or landscape treatments. Focal points 
should be discouraged at inappropriate locations. 
Significant places in the City should be emphasized. Treating them as focal points and making them 
more prominent by allowing concentrations of high buildings in designated areas, emphasizing a 
particular use, or a special landscape treatment accomplishes this. Tall or bulky buildings randomly 
placed confuse the most important areas of the City with other areas and should be avoided.
POLICY UD 1.5: 
Direct Corridors to Focal Points. Visually improve and direct toward focal points the 
major corridors of Third Avenue, Fourth Avenue, Hillsdale Boulevard and El Camino 
Real (SR 82) with the installation of street trees, street lights and consistent building 
setbacks. 
As constructed, many major corridors lack a visual connection to the City's focal points. Improving this 
connection emphasizes the focal points and improves the appearance of these heavily traveled streets. 
Street trees, distinctive and aesthetic street lights and consistent building setbacks are the main ways to 
accomplish this. Further study may indicate that other public improvements and design standards will 
also improve the corridors.
POLICY UD 1.6:
El Camino Real (SR 82) Ensure that new development and public improvements 
conform to the goals, policies, and guidelines established in the El Camino Real 
Master Plan to give El Camino Real an organized and appealing image. The street 
should maintain a landscaped residential character north of Downtown and allow 
mixed uses south of Ninth Avenue. The Guiding Principles of the Grand Boulevard 
Initiative shall be incorporated into future plans to be developed that involve El 
Camino Real in San Mateo. 
El Camino Real is the dominant commercial and through street in the City. Much of the commercial 
image of San Mateo comes from this street. Because of the importance of El Camino Real, a Master Plan 
was adopted to improve it visually and economically. The Master Plan provides a vision for 
enhancements to El Camino Real from SR 92 to the Belmont border to further its role as a major traffic 
arterial, and provide infrastructure and guidelines to create a vibrant mixed-use community. It is 
extremely important that new private development and public improvements comply with the 
provisions contained in the Master Plan. 
83 of 282

--- page 84 ---
The Grand Boulevard Initiative has developed 10 Guiding Principles for El Camino Real that are based on 
common themes throughout various planning documents in the multiple jurisdictions in San Mateo and 
Santa Clara counties. 
The Guiding Principles are: Target housing and job growth in strategic areas along the corridor; 
Encourage compact mixed-use development and high quality urban design and construction; Create a 
pedestrian-oriented environment and improve streetscapes, ensuring full access to and between public 
areas and private developments; Develop a balanced multimodal corridor to maintain and improve 
mobility of people and vehicles along the corridor; Manage parking assets; Provide vibrant public spaces 
and gathering places; Preserve and accentuate unique and desirable community character and the 
existing quality of life in adjacent neighborhoods; Improve safety and public health; Strengthen 
pedestrian and bicycle connections within the corridor; and Pursue environmentally sustainable and 
economically viable development patterns. 
These Guiding Principles are consistent with the adopted El Camino Real Master Plan, and are strategies 
that will be incorporated into future plans for improvements along El Camino Real.
84 of 282

--- page 85 ---
Att 4
City of San Mateo General Plan Height Plan
85 of 282

--- page 86 ---
Att 5
Mid and South El Camino Real 40-55 Foot Building Height Design  
Map on Page 5
86 of 282

--- page 87 ---
C O N F I D E N T I A L  M E M O R A N D U M  
To: 
Kohar Kojayan, City of San Mateo 
From: 
Benjamin C. Sigman, Economic & Planning Systems 
Subject: 
Economic Considerations Concerning Community Benefit 
Contributions to be Negotiated with the Passage Project 
Date: 
June 22, 2020 
The City of San Mateo is negotiating a Development Agreement (DA) 
with the Passage at San Mateo, a significant mixed-use transit-oriented 
development. While the project is consistent with the City’s Rail Corridor 
Plan, the applicant is seeking vested rights for 15 years. The City 
engaged Economic & Planning Systems (EPS) to provide economic 
analysis related to DA negotiation, specifically to develop quantitative 
metrics that value additional community benefits that might be offered 
by the project in exchange for the vested rights conferred by the DA. 
This memorandum presents three analytical approaches to inform the 
magnitude of community benefit value that might be provided by the 
Passage project in return for vested rights. The three approaches 
consider (1) the project’s fair share of transportation improvement 
costs, (2) public benefit burden levels, and (3) the value of risk 
reduction from vested rights. The memorandum presents each analytical 
approach and associated quantitative findings. Figure 1 summarizes the 
key outputs from the analysis, which range from roughly $2.2 million to 
$3.3 million, and average about $2.7 million. The estimates reflect data 
and analytical inputs from the Passage project applicant and the City of 
San Mateo. EPS also relies on 3rd party data, in-house data, and 
professional experience with local and regional real estate development 
to establish revenue and cost factors. 
Figure 1 
Summary of Findings 
 
Fair Share Tranportation Improvements
$2.2 Million
Public Benefit Burden Test
$3.3 Million
Valuation of Vested Rights
$2.6 Million
Average
$2.7 Million
87 of 282

--- page 88 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 2 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
Fair Share of Transportation Improvements 
The Passage applicant has indicated that in exchange for a DA the project may seek to contribute 
to traffic mitigation investments in the vicinity of the project, despite being legally exempted 
from such obligations.1 As part of the DA negotiation, the City might request that the Passage 
project compensate the City for its fair share of the cost to implement a transportation 
improvement package that mitigates the project’s effect on automobile congestion nearby. 
The City has identified a series of transportation improvements that will help to stem traffic 
impacts generated by the Passage and other local projects. These improvements generally seek 
to improve vehicular flows on 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Boulevard. Eight unique 
investments comprise the proposed transportation improvement solution. The City estimates the 
cost of the proposed mitigation package at approximately $9.6 million in 2020 dollars (i.e., 
before cost escalation), including all construction and construction management costs; planning, 
design, and permitting costs, construction easements and right of way acquisitions. 
Figure 2 
Overview of Potential Transportation Improvements 
Source: City of San Mateo 
 
 
1 Pursuant to SB 743, the Governor’s Office of Planning and Research published updates to CEQA 
Guidelines which became effective in December 2018. The guidelines stated that LOS will no longer be 
considered to be an environmental impact under CEQA and considers VMT the most appropriate 
measure of transportation impact. VMT analysis finds that the project would not conflict or be 
inconsistent with CEQA Guidelines. 
88 of 282

--- page 89 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 3 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
The fair share cost allocation considered here reflects the Passage project’s contribution to traffic 
impacts generated by new development in the vicinity of 19th Avenue. EPS relies on calculations 
from the City of San Mateo, based on traffic counts collected by Hexagon Traffic Consultants. The 
analysis establishes baseline traffic conditions as of April 2018, and evaluates traffic growth 
associated with projects that have been approved by the City since that time, along with trips 
attributable to the Passage project. The fair share calculation reflects Passage-generated trips at 
impacted intersections as a percentage of all trips generated by the Passage project and recently 
approved projects at these intersections. 
In addition to the Passage project, the City anticipates that eight approved projects will generate 
automobile trips that adversely affect mobility in the 19th Avenue/Fashion Boulevard corridor. 
Figure 3 identifies the eight projects that in combination with the Passage project create a 
pressing need for transportation improvements to mitigate traffic impacts. Together these 
projects exacerbate roadway congestion and deteriorate roadway mobility in the 19th 
Avenue/Fashion Boulevard corridor to an unacceptable level.2 
Figure 3 
Additional Projects Contributing to Traffic in the 19th Avenue Corridor 
Source: City of San Mateo 
 
2 Passage project development will generate increases in intersection delays in the 19th Avenue 
corridor based on General Plan criteria (Concar Passage Mixed-Use Development General Plan 
Conformance Transportation Analysis, Hexagon Transportation Consultants, 2020). 
Project
Description
Status
Hillsdale Shopping Center 
Redevelopment
Retail expansion 
(increase of 20,000 SF)
Completed Construction
1650 Delaware Street (AAA)
Demolish commercial use and 
construct 73 residential units
In Construction
Station Park Green
599 residential units, 11,000 SF 
office, and 26,000 SF retail
In Construction
Bay Meadows Phase II 
Single family and multifamily 
residential, office, and retail
In Construction
1 Waters Park Drive
Demolish office buildings and 
construct 190 residential units
Approved
Hampton Inn & Suites
Demolish hotel and construct 
180 residential units
In Construction
Hillsdale Terrace
14,000 SF commercial and 
74 condominiums
Approved
Franklin Templeton 
Campus Expansion
Office expansion 
(increase of 245,000 SF)
Completed Construction
89 of 282

--- page 90 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 4 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
Based on City analysis of estimated traffic counts at impacted locations, the Passage generates 
562 trips at affected intersections, out of the total 2,475 generated by the Passage and nearby 
approved projects combined.3 At these levels of trip generation, the vehicle count data reveal 
that the Passage project is responsible for an estimated 22.7 percent of the increase in traffic 
generated by major new projects at intersections in the 19th Avenue/Fashion Boulevard corridor. 
Applying the Passage’s proportion of new transportation impacts to the cost of the transportation 
mitigation projects yields a fair-share cost contribution of $2.18 million. 
Public Benefit Burden Test 
To provide another lens on the potential of the Passage project to generate additional 
community benefits in return for a DA, EPS considers the overall public benefit cost burden 
associated with the project proposal, relative to industry norms. This analytical exercise 
uses a well-accepted industry metric to test the cost of infrastructure, public facilities, and 
affordable housing contributions relative to the Passage project’s estimated market value. In 
EPS’s experience over nearly 40 years of real estate consulting in the Bay Area, excessive 
public cost burdens, typically above roughly 15 percent of a project’s market value, 
challenge the financial feasibility of new development. This analysis evaluates whether the 
Passage can take on additional community benefit costs before hitting the 15 percent 
upper-bound metric. 
The Public Benefit Burden Test is a relatively simple comparison of public benefit costs to the 
total market value of the project, in constant dollars. In this analysis, public facility cost and fee 
data provided by the applicant and vetted by City, along with affordable housing subsidy 
estimates prepared by EPS, are compared to EPS-researched estimates of the project’s market 
value. While useful for considering the economic potential for the Passage project to generate 
additional community benefits for the City, this financial feasibility test does not acknowledge 
extraordinary costs or unique market conditions that specific projects may face. 
Public Benefit Costs 
The key contributions that the Passage project makes to public facilities and programs include 
construction efforts and funding: 
• 
Construction costs for development of building shells for a transportation hub (“depot 
lounge”), a day care facility, and a community theater, based on the applicant’s contractor 
estimates from October 2019. 
• 
Construction cost for development of off-site public infrastructure including improvements to 
public streets, utilities, landscaping, signals, and pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure, based 
on the applicant’s contractor estimates from October 2019. 
• 
Development impact fees for parks, art, sewer infrastructure, transportation, and schools, 
based on the 2020 fee schedules. 
• 
Below-market-rate housing subsidy requirements, based on EPS subsidy analysis. 
 
 
 
3 Includes AM or PM counts at 10 intersections. 
90 of 282

--- page 91 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 5 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
In aggregate, these public benefits will cost approximately $95 million in constant 2020 dollars. 
The construction of on-site and off-site public elements account for about $15 million, impact 
fees cost the project about $30 million, and subsidies for affordable housing are roughly $50 
million. Figure 5 summarizes these cost estimates and additional supporting calculations are 
provided in the Appendix to this memorandum. 
Project Valuation 
For the purpose of the Public Benefit Burden Test, the analysis establishes market value based 
on sale transactions observed in the local and regional real estate market. EPS considered 
multifamily and retail real estate sales in the City of San Mateo and in San Mateo County based 
on data available from CoStar Group.4 
• 
Multifamily Residential Values 
Transaction research identified two major multifamily residential projects built after 2010 
that have sold since 2015. 888 North San Mateo Drive is a 160-unit class A multifamily 
project that sold in 2018 for $105 million ($655,000 per unit). Mode Apartments at 2089 
Pacific Boulevard is a 111-unit multifamily project that sold in 2015 for $74 million ($663,000 
per unit). Both projects include 10 percent of their units at below-market-rate rents. 
Accounting for the inclusionary housing component of these project, EPS estimates the value 
of new market rate units in the City of San Mateo at roughly $725,000 per unit. This 
valuation is near the midpoint in the range of major market rate multifamily project 
transactions in San Mateo County since 2015, which span from about $690,000 per unity (a 
2016 sale) to $815,000 per unit (a 2019 sale). 
• 
Retail Values 
Retail real estate value is extremely sensitive to a number of locational factors, including 
access, visibility, and adjacent retail uses. The size of the building or floor space, and the 
magnitude of the property’s host retail center also are essential to value. Significant variation 
in retail real estate value is apparent in the transaction data collected from San Mateo County 
since 2015. Observed per-square-foot sale prices ranged from about $530 to $2,230. The 
unweighted average per-square-foot price across eight transactions identified was about 
$1,190. These were sales of smaller spaces (about 7,000 square feet on average). 
Considering that the Passage has significantly more retail, about 38,000 square feet, and 
anchor tenants are likely to generate lower per-square-foot rents, EPS assumes that pricing 
will be in the middle of the observed value spectrum, about $750 per square foot. After 
factoring in that approximately 1/3rd of retail space will be rent free in perpetuity (i.e., 
performance space and day care), EPS assumes a weighted retail sale value of $500 per 
square foot across the 38,000 square feet of Passage retail space. 
 
 
 
4 CoStar Group is the leading provider of real estate data and analytics in the United States. 
91 of 282

--- page 92 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 6 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
Public Benefit Burden Calculation 
The Public Benefit Burden Test considers aggregate public benefit contributions relative to total 
project market value. As discussed above, benefits include on-site and off-site public 
improvements, development impact fees, and affordable housing subsidies. Valuation reflects an 
assessment of the project’s potential sale value in the market today, assuming it is fully built out 
and operations have stabilized (i.e., full lease up). Even before considering any additional cost 
burden that may be imposed in exchange for the DA, the burden analysis finds that the Passage 
project’s public benefit burden is already very close to the 15 percent threshold, estimating the 
cost burden at about 14.5 percent of project value. 
Based on the 15 percent test, there may be some additional potential for the Passage project to 
provide public benefits, assuming no extraordinary cost factors are limiting the project’s 
economic potential. An additional $3.3 million in public benefit costs would bring the burden up 
to exactly 15 percent of project value. Figure 5 presents a summary of the public benefit burden 
calculation, including a summary of cost and value elements associated with the project. The 
Appendix to this memorandum provides additional supporting detail concerning cost estimates. 
92 of 282

--- page 93 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 7 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
Figure 4 
Public Benefit Burden Test Data and Calculation 
 
Item
Estimate
Note
Public Benefit Value Estimates
Transportation Hub (Depot Lounge)
$2,500,000
Applicant estimate of building cost
Day Care Facility
$4,000,000
Applicant estimate of building cost
Community Theater
$2,000,000
Applicant estimate of building cost
Off-Site Improvements1
$6,300,000
Applicant estimate of infrastructure cost
Parks Impact Fee
$19,000,000
City-confirmed applicant fee estimate
Art Program
$2,500,000
City-confirmed applicant fee estimate
Trunk Sewer
$2,600,000
City-confirmed applicant fee estimate
Transportation
$1,700,000
City fee estimate
School Impact Fee
$3,200,000
City-confirmed applicant fee estimate
Moderate Income BMR Housing Subsidy
$5,166,000
EPS estimate
Very Low Income BMR Housing Subsidy2
$46,419,000
EPS estimate
Total Infrastructure, Facility and Fees
$95,385,000
Project Built Value Estimates
Market Rate Unit Count
852
Project program
Average Per-Unit Value
$725,000
EPS estimate based on Sales
Value of Market Rate Units
$617,700,000
Moderate Income Unit Count
36
Project program
Average Per-Unit Value
$484,000
EPS estimate based on City Rent Limits
Value of Moderate Income Units
$17,424,000
Very Low Income Unit Count
73
Project program
Average Per-Unit Value
$53,000
EPS estimate based on City Rent Limits
Value of Very Low Income Units
$3,869,000
Commercial (Square Feet)
38,000
Project program
Average Per-Square-Foot Value
$500
EPS estimate based on Sales3
Value of Commercial Space
$19,000,000
Total Project Built Value
$657,993,000
Public Benefits as a % of Total Value
14.5%
Additional Community Benefits 
@15% Burden Level
$3,313,950
1 Improvements to public streets, utilities, landscaping, signals, and pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure.
2 The subsidy for very-low-income housing could be reduced by Low Income Housing Tax Credits, not considered here.
3 The commercial rent shown is weighted to reflect that approximately 1/3rd of the commercial program will be tenanted with 
zero or minimal rent to not-for-profit and/or public benefit entities (e.g., YMCA and Peninsula Ballet Theatre).
93 of 282

--- page 94 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 8 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
Valuation of Vested Rights 
While a development applicant may seek a DA for a variety of reasons, including to add density, 
achieve code variances, or to pursue public funding, vested rights alone can generate significant 
value for a developer. Vested rights prevent a City from requiring new project contributions or 
changing development program parameters throughout the duration of the DA. Particularly for 
multi-phased projects that will be developed over many years, developers and their investors 
benefit from the certainty that local jurisdictions will not modify project requirements over time. 
Multiple case studies (e.g., Stanford Campus in Redwood City and Sierra Point Campus in 
Brisbane) exhibit that the value of vested rights alone can be enough to support community 
benefit contributions. The current term sheet for the Passage project DA anticipates a 15-year 
DAs. 
The value of vesting the entitlement can be measured in terms of reduced risk. The reduction is 
calculated through a downward adjustment to the project’s threshold required internal rate of 
return (IRR). The risk reduction achieved by the Passage through a DA likely is modest, with the 
State of California’s Housing Accountability Act recently strengthened to help to protect new 
housing projects from opposition by anti-growth activists. However, the applicant is interested in 
a DA to achieve an extra layer of security in the entitlement, an important signal to potential 
investors that the project’s approvals are secure. 
This analysis of the value of vested rights considers the Passage project’s potential cash flow, 
including costs and returns over a seven-year period. Based on EPS cost assumptions, the 
analysis assumes all-in cost for the project will be approximately $670 million, spent evenly over 
the development period. While the applicant has not indicated the project will be sold in the near 
term, this analysis assumes that project stabilization (full lease up) is achieved in year seven, at 
which point the project is sold. In a baseline (without DA) scenario, sale proceeds generate an 
internal rate of return (IRR) of 14.0 percent.5 The analysis compares the baseline to a “with DA” 
scenario in which the vested rights reduce project risk, and compress the project’s required rate 
of return by 15 basis points (0.15 percentage points) to 13.85 percent. EPS assumes that this 
reduction in return (a roughly 1 percent reduction in the IRR) is commensurate with the 
reduction in project risk conferred by the vested rights provision of the DA. 
Given the EPS cost and return assumptions, the vested rights valuation analysis finds that 
reduced project risk and the lower IRR threshold result in a potential for an increase in project 
equity of approximately $2.6 million, about 0.5 percent of the original project investment. That 
is, with a reduced financial return requirement attributable to the DA, project investors are 
indifferent between the original project cash flow (without the DA) and cashflow with an added 
upfront payment of $2.6 million that buys entitlement assurances through the anticipated 
development and stabilization period for the project. If the upfront community benefit payment 
is delayed in time, project investors’ willingness to pay will be higher. 
 
 
 
5 This is a simplified analysis. Project cash flows reflects projected revenues and costs over time but 
do not contemplate phasing, market absorption, or a number of other factors that can significantly 
affect financial performance. 
94 of 282

--- page 95 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 9 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
Figure 5 
Valuation of Vested Rights Cash Flow Analysis 
 
 
 
Year
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Cash Flow with IRR requirement of 14.00% (Higher Risk without Development Agreement)
 Net Cash 
(Millions) 
($96)
($94)
($91)
($88)
($85)
($76)
($85)
$1,094
IRR
14.00%
Cash Flow with IRR requirement of 13.85% (Lower Risk with Development Agreement)
 Net Cash
(Millions) 
($96)
($94)
($91)
($88)
($85)
($76)
($85)
$1,087
IRR
13.85%
Value of Risk Reduction from Development Agreement
Change in IRR (Percentage Points)
-0.15%
Change in Year-7 Reversion Value
($6.5) million
Change in NPV Reversion Value
($2.6) million
NPV as Percentage of Initial Investment
0.5%
Cash Flow with Community Benefit Contribution and Development Agreement
 Net Cash
(Millions) 
(99)
$        
(94)
$        
(91)
$        
(88)
$        
(85)
$        
(76)
$        
(85)
$        
1,094
$   
IRR
13.85%
95 of 282

--- page 96 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 10 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
Appendix Tables 
 
Appendix Table 1 
Off-Site Public Improvement Cost Estimate Detail 
 
 
 
 
Off-Site Public Infrastructure1
Cost Estimate1
Demolition, earthwork, traffic control  
$420,000
AC Paving, restripe
$350,000
Allowance for additional street repair
$350,000
Concrete curbs, gutters, sidewalks
$945,000
Landscape and irrigation
$770,000
Underground wet utilities
$1,540,000
Underground dry utilities
$910,000
Allowance for new traffic signal
$490,000
Allowance for bike and pedestrian improvements
$525,000
Total
$6,300,000
2Estimates include soft costs and contingency.  Estimates reflect union contrctor bids from our 
October 2019.  
1 Improvements to public streets, utilities, landscaping, signals, and pedestrian and bicycle 
infrastructure.
96 of 282

--- page 97 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 11 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
Appendix Table 2 
Moderate-Income Housing Subsidy Calculations 
 
 
 
Units and Rent Potential
Unit Type
Count
Housing Cost 
Limit1
Utilities 
Allowance2
Rent 
Potential
Studio
8
$2,466
-$75
$2,391
1-Bed
18
$2,823
-$85
$2,738
2-Bed
10
$3,169
-$107
$3,062
Weighted Average
$2,751
Annual Revenue
$31,360
Annual Operating Expenses 
$12,000
Net Operating Income
$19,360
Capitalized Market Value Per Unit (a)
$484,003
Development Cost Per Unit
Land
12.5% of Total
$78,437
Hard Cost
Site Work and Building
$415 Per SF
$334,248
Parking
$75,000 Per Stall
$105,000
Hard Cost
$439,248
Soft Cost
25% of Hard Costs
$109,812
Total Development Cost Per Unit (b)
$627,497
BMR Subsidy Requirment ( = a - b )
-$143,494
1 Community Development Department, June 2020
2 U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, "Utility Allowance Schedule: Housing 
Authority of San Mateo County," November 2019. Assumes landlord pays for water and trash 
collection.
97 of 282

--- page 98 ---
Confidential Draft Memorandum 
June 22, 2020 
Passage DA Community Benefits Economics 
Page 12 
 
 
Z:\Shared\Projects\Oakland\201000s\201051_San_Mateo_PassageDA\Deliverable\201051_Confidential 6.22.20.docx 
Appendix Table 3 
Very-Low-Income Housing Subsidy Calculations 
 
 
 
 
 
Units and Rent Potential
Unit Type
Count
Housing Cost 
Limit1
Utilities 
Allowance2
Rent 
Potential
Studio
12
$1,125
-$75
$1,050
1-Bed
25
$1,276
-$85
$1,191
2-Bed
36
$1,439
-$107
$1,332
Weighted Average Monthly Rent
$1,237
Annual Cash Flow and Value for a Very-Low-Income Unit
Annual Revenue
$14,106
Annual Operating Expenses 
12000
Net Operating Income
$2,106
Capitalized Market Value Per Unit (a)
$52,647
Development Cost Per Unit
Land
12.5% of Total
$86,066
Hard Cost
Site Work and Building
$415 Per SF
$376,968
Parking
$75,000 Per Stall
$105,000
Hard Cost
$481,968
Soft Cost
25% of Hard Costs
$120,492
Total Development Cost Per Unit (b)
$688,525
BMR Subsidy Requirment ( = a - b )
-$635,879
1 Community Development Department, June 2020
2 U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, "Utility Allowance Schedule: Housing 
Authority of San Mateo County," November 2019. Assumes landlord pays for water and trash 
collection.
98 of 282

--- page 99 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
File ID: 21-4375
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
San Mateo Police Department Mindfulness Project – Agreement and Appropriation
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with Mindfulness Based Health for mindfulness training for the San Mateo Police Department in 
the amount of $105,000; authorize the Police Chief to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented; and 
adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $105,000 with a net zero impact to the General 
Fund.  
BACKGROUND:
As a nation, we are experiencing a critical time for law enforcement. Recent current events have led to increased pressures 
on police officers across the country, and increased scrutiny of officer performance. The San Mateo Police Department 
wishes to implement an innovative program focused on enhancing officer performance through mindfulness-based 
training. The program involves an eight-week series of trainings aimed to support police officers’ increased self-awareness 
and self-regulation, well-being, and job performance. This program is consistent with City Council priorities intended to 
enhance training related to de-escalation, sanctity of life, crisis response and intervention, mindfulness, behavioral health, 
and to incorporate these into all aspects of police performance where applicable.  
Mindfulness training is relatively new to law enforcement but its value is being quickly realized. The training will offer a 
deep exploration into the science and experience of mindfulness with a focus on skill building to enhance self-awareness, 
attunement to others, compassion, wisdom and peak performance.  This training model prepares first responders to take 
on the occupational stressors and trauma of their profession, and attendees will learn skills that can be translated to their 
personal and professional life.  Several local agencies including San Bruno and Menlo Park have made similar programs 
available to their Police Departments and have experienced great value from them.
The training is facilitated by Pete Kirchmer, the Program Director and co-creator of the University of California San Diego 
(UCSD) Center for Mindfulness mPEAK Program (Mindful, Performance Enhancement, Awareness and Knowledge).  For the 
last 15 years Mr. Kirchmer has coached executives, athletes and leaders of all kinds in applying the practice of mindfulness 
to making lifestyle changes, managing stress and improving performance in life, work and sport. Some of Mr. Kirchmer’s 
clients include the Canadian, Danish and Swedish Olympic Teams, Navy Special Warfare, Secret Service, Border Patrol 
Special Operations and Coast Guard, as well as individuals from the Army Rangers and Air Force Para Jumpers. Mr. 
Kirchmer is currently conducting a research project on mPEAK at Federal Law Enforcement Training Academies with US 
Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
SMPD plans to train 150 officers and staff members, in cohorts of 25, through multiple rounds of the immersive 8-week 
mPEAK training program.  The coursework will be delivered online via Zoom.  Additionally, the Police Department will be 
contracting with the John W. Gardner Center for Youth and Their Communities of the Stanford University Graduate School 
99 of 282

--- page 100 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
of Education to conduct a mixed methods study assessing police officer well-being and performance before and after 
participation in the mPEAK program. The study will include a survey to be developed by the Gardner Center measuring key 
health and well-being constructs and analysis of police performance data. 
In recognition of the potential for success and impact of this program, the California Department of Justice’s Commission 
on Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST) has recently certified and approved this training program for POST Plan I 
reimbursement.   POST will reimburse the City for all tuition costs, allowing the Police Department to deliver this training 
with net zero impact to the General Fund. Staff requests a budget appropriation in the amount of $105,000 to the Police 
Department operating budget, which will be fully reimbursed by this revenue.    
BUDGET IMPACT:
The requested budget appropriation of $105,000 will be offset by reimbursement revenue received from POST, resulting in 
a net zero impact to the General Fund.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical 
change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 – Agreement 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
100 of 282

--- page 101 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
AUTHORIZING A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION TO THE POLICE DEPARTMENT IN THE 2020-21 
BUDGET FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT MINDFULNESS TRAINING PROJECT
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Police Department wishes to implement an innovative program focused on 
enhancing police officer performance through mindfulness-based training; and
WHEREAS, this training model prepares first responders to take on the occupational stressors and 
trauma of their profession, and attendees will learn skills that can be translated to their personal and 
professional life; and 
WHEREAS, reimbursement for this training has been approved by the California Department of Justice’s 
Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training (POST), which will fully cover the costs and result in no net 
impact to the General Fund; however an appropriation is needed so that the funds may be spent in the 2020-21 
fiscal year; and 
WHEREAS, Section 5.13(a) of the City Charter requires Council approval by resolution for supplemental 
appropriations to the City’s budget.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
A supplemental budget appropriation for fiscal year 2020-21 is approved in the amount of $105,000 
for the Police Department.
101 of 282

--- page 102 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
AGREEMENT WITH MINDFULNESS BASED HEALTH 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR SAN MATEO POLICE DEPARTMENT  
MINDFULNESS TRAINING COURSE 
 
 
This Agreement, made and entered into this 15th day of March, 2021, by and between the CITY 
OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California (“CITY”), and 
Pete Kirchmer, a Sole Proprietor doing business as Mindfulness Based Health, (“CONSULTANT”), whose 
address is 20744 Elfin Forest Road, Escondido, CA 92029. 
 
RECITALS: 
 
 
 
A.  CITY desires certain professional training services hereinafter described. 
 
 
B.  CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional training services 
by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT has 
offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
 
 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
 
 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
 
102 of 282

--- page 103 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
 
 
The services to be performed under this Agreement shall commence on or about April 1, 2021 
and be completed on or about December 31, 2021. 
 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
 
 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed. In consideration for the 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an amount 
of $105,000, for delivery of the mPEAK 8 week course program (delivered online via Zoom) to six 
groups of up to 25 participants, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit A to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference.  Consultant may submit invoices for payment at the end of every course 
cycle.   
 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
 
 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as either party shall otherwise have by law, either 
party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, 
upon providing ten (10) days' written notice; however, services may not be terminated by either party 
during the middle of one of the 8 week course sessions.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under 
this Agreement upon receipt of said written notice.  
 
In the event of termination, CONSULTANT shall be entitled to receive payment for work/services 
provided prior to termination of this agreement.  
 
 
SECTION 7 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
 
SECTION 8 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
 
103 of 282

--- page 104 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
SECTION 9 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
 
 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 10 - INDEMNITY 
 
 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. 
 
SECTION 11 - INSURANCE 
 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit B to this 
Agreement. 
 
SECTION 12 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
 
 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
 
SECTION 13 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
 
 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
 
104 of 282

--- page 105 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
SECTION 14 - WAIVERS 
 
 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
 
SECTION 15 - SEVERABILITY 
 
 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
 
SECTION 16 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
 
 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 17 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
 
SECTION 18 - MEDIATION 
 
 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
 
 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
105 of 282

--- page 106 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
 
SECTION 19 - LITIGATION 
 
 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
 
SECTION 20 - NOTICES 
 
 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
 
To CITY: 
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police 
City of San Mateo 
200 Franklin Parkway 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
To CONSULTANT: 
Mindfulness Based Health 
Attn:  Pete Kirchmer 
20744 Elfin Forest Road,  
Escondido, CA 92029 
 
SECTION 21 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
 
 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
 
 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
 
SECTION 22 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
 
 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
 
106 of 282

--- page 107 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
 
SECTION 23 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and Pete Kirchmer, a Sole Proprietor doing 
business as Mindfulness Based Health, have executed this Agreement the day and year first above 
written. 
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
 
 
 
 
CONSULTANT 
 
 
 
Ed Barberini 
Chief of Police 
 
 
 
Pete Kirchmer 
Sole Proprietor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Scope of Services 
Exhibit B: 
Insurance Requirements 
 
 
107 of 282

--- page 108 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
EXHIBIT A 
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
 
 
108 of 282

--- page 109 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
109 of 282

--- page 110 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110 of 282

--- page 111 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
  
EXHIBIT B 
 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07 
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal & 
advertising injury, with limits no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate 
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or 
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit. 
 
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if 
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no 
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage. 
 
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and 
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily 
injury or disease.  
 
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s 
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate 
 
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
 
111 of 282

--- page 112 ---
Professional Services  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11 of 11 
Rev 5/20 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
 
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
 
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
112 of 282

--- page 113 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-4387
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Fiscal Year 2021-22 Comprehensive Fee Schedule – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve the proposed fiscal year 2021-22 Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
BACKGROUND:
Section 3.64.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code requires the City Manager to submit the City’s fee schedule to the City 
Council for approval prior to submittal of the annual budget. It is the City's policy and practice to increase fees annually by 
Consumer Price Index, or CPI, for the San Francisco Bay Area. The proposed increases reflect the City's increase in 
materials and maintenance costs incurred in providing services. The City uses the CPI from the previous October, which is 
the most recent data available at the beginning of the review process (CPI for 2021-22 is 1.10% from November 2019 to 
October 2020). Other adjustments to fees are made periodically as deemed necessary to reflect actual staff costs, market 
alignments, or to comply with policy.
The proposed fee adjustments are based on the annual CPI increase, a periodic adjustment, or are the result of detailed 
analyses of the cost for providing specific programs/activities. Recreation fees and park in-lieu fees were reviewed by the 
Parks and Recreation Commission at its March 3, 2021 meeting. All fees will become effective July 1, 2021, except where 
otherwise noted. Sewer service charges are set separately by ordinance and are not part of the fee revision process. Tables 
summarizing the new fees and various fee changes including those in excess of CPI are provided in Attachment 4.
The Community Development Department underwent a fee study and presented their findings to the City Council on 
February 16, 2021. Among these updates, language that allows the Community Development Department (CDD) Director 
to adjust planning application deposits and allows the Building Official to adjust valuations and permit fees when necessary 
has been added.
Discretion for CDD Director in Adjusting Planning Application Deposit Amounts
There are limited instances when requiring a lower planning application deposit may be more appropriate than requiring 
the full amount. For example, although they take much less time to process and generally result in the need to refund 
customers, applications for projects like temporary storage containers lasting for 1-7 months currently have the same 
initial $6,000 deposit as some new multi-family projects. This will be rectified through Code revisions currently underway, 
but there may still be a small number of instances where it can be seen with certainty that permit processing time will not 
be commensurate with the initial deposit amount. In these instances, it would be helpful for the CDD Director to have the 
discretion to adjust the initial planning application deposit amount below the amount indicated in the fee schedule. The 
City would still recover all its costs should those costs exceed the initial deposit, but by lowering the initial deposit amount 
in these instances, staff can remove barriers for projects like temporary use permits and other small and/or time-limited 
application types. Staff believes this will improve the customer experience and streamline the processing of smaller 
113 of 282

--- page 114 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
planning applications.
Building Official Can Adjust Valuations and Permit Fees When Necessary
As noted at the February 16, 2021 City Council meeting, the Building Division will now be utilizing a valuation table to 
calculate permit fees. This will make fees more equitable and better align fee amounts with the cost of service across 
project types. However, should an instance arise where the calculated permit fee for a given project does not reflect the 
staff costs associated with processing that permit or the documented valuation of the project, staff recommends the 
Building Official have the ability to make an adjustment. This will provide CDD with additional flexibility as it implements 
these necessary changes and continues to fine-tune its fee amounts. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The changes to fees, including new fees, for fiscal year 2021-22 are estimated to increase revenues by $400,000. These 
revenues will be reflected in the 2021-22 budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Comprehensive Fee Schedule update for fiscal year 2021-22 is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a 
government fiscal activity which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met. In accordance with Government Code sections 66018 and 6062a, notice of 
the fee increases was published twice, beginning 10 days in advance of the public hearing. Prior to the meeting, City staff 
made the data available for the public, indicating the amount of cost, or estimated cost, required to provide the service for 
which the fee or service charge is levied, and the receiving fund of the fee revenue.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Proposed Comprehensive Fee Schedule FY 2021-22
Att 3 - Track Changes: Proposed Comprehensive Fee Schedule FY 2021-22
Att 4 - Tables Summarizing Changes
STAFF CONTACT
Karley Hamilton, Management Analyst II
khamilton@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7106
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650)522-7102
114 of 282

--- page 115 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ___ (2021)
ESTABLISHING A COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE FOR 2021-2022
WHEREAS, the City reviews its Comprehensive Fee Schedule on an annual basis; and
WHEREAS, it is the City’s policy and practice to establish service fees sufficient to recover its costs, 
including inflation, based on the Consumer Price Index, which is 1.10% for fiscal year 2021-2022 and to eliminate 
or reduce fees that are obsolete, no longer applicable to services provided, or succeeded by state or county 
agencies; and 
WHEREAS, fee increases in excess of the 1.10% CPI factor are appropriate, when based on increases in 
the City’s actual costs or market analyses, as follows:

Transportation Improvement Fees

South Trunk Area Sewer Improvement Fees

Below Market Rate Housing

Commercial Linkage Fees

Police Outside Detail

Curb Painting

Development Impact Fees

Park In-Lieu/Park Impact Fees

Heritage Tree Permit

Heritage Tree Replacement Deposit

Some Facility Rental Fees
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 66016, the Council held a public hearing to 
consider these fee increases on March 15, 2021; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with Government Code section 66019, at least ten days prior to the public 
hearing, the City made data available to the public supporting the need for fee increases.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY FINDS AND 
RESOLVES that;
1.
The fees included in the Comprehensive Fee Schedule, are approved.
2.
All fees shall become effective July 1, 2021, except where noted.
115 of 282

--- page 116 ---
Proposed 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule
July 1, 2021 - June 30, 2022
116 of 282

--- page 117 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE
Table of Contents
Parks & Recreation…………………………………………………………….........…8.1
Police……………………………………………………………………….…….....…9.1
Library……………………………………………………………………………........7.1
City Clerk………………………………………………………………………….....1.1
Community Development
Building…………………...…………..……..…...………………..…....2.1
Code Enforcement………………………………………...………….....3.1
Planning………………...…………..………..…...……………...….…..4.1
Finance…………………………………………...………………………...……....….5.1
Information Technology………………………………………………………….....…6.1
Effective July 1, 2020, customers using credit/debit cards to pay for services will be charged a service fee payable to 
the City's merchant service provider at the rate of 2.6%+ in addition to the cost of services. The credit card service fee 
will be reflected as a separate transaction on your credit card statement. As an alternative, checks and money orders 
are acceptable by mail or cash, check, e-check and money orders in person at City facilities.
Public Works…………………………………………………………………............10.1
Penalties & Interest……………………………………………………………...…....11.1
Impact, In-lieu, and Linkage Fees…………………………………………....…...…..12.1
117 of 282

--- page 118 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. ELECTION DOCUMENT COPIES
Per Page
$0.10
II. PHOTOCOPIES
Per Page
$0.15
III. OUTSIDE SERVICES
Reproductions not performed by City (maps, photos, etc.).
Per Reproduction
Actual Costs
IV. CERTIFICATIONS
Each
$1.50
V. APPEALS to the City Council of a decision by the Planning 
Commission, Community Relations Commission, or Public 
Works Commission.
Each Appeal
$500.00
VI. INITIATIVE FILING FEE
Each
$200.00
CITY CLERK
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 1.1
118 of 282

--- page 119 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
I.
A.
% of Building Permit Fee
70%
B.
% of Building Permit Fee
75%
C.
% of Building Permit Fee
65%
II.
A.
Valuation
$262.61 
Valuation
$262.61 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$455.21 
(for 1st $2,000) $22.33 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$968.82 
(for 1st $25,000) $28.48 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,680.83 
(for 1st $50,000) $21.94 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$2,778.05 
(for 1st $100,000) $14.16 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$4,902.48 
(for 1st $250,000) $7.75 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$6,840.11 
(for 1st $500,000) $6.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$10,318.56 
(for 1st $1,000,000) $3.48 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
BUILDING PLAN REVIEW FEES
$1.00 - $500.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$50,001.00 - $100,000.00
$100,001.00 - $250,000.00
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES
$25,001.00 - $50,000.00
SINGLE FAMILY/DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL PLAN 
REVIEW
COMMERCIAL BUILDING PLAN REVIEW
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 
PLAN REVIEW
SINGLE FAMILY/DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL 
PERMIT AND INSPECTION
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$500,001 to $1,000,000
$250,001.00 - $500,000
$1,000,001 and Over
Page 2.1
119 of 282

--- page 120 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
B.
Valuation
$262.61 
Valuation
$262.61 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$455.21 
(for 1st $2,000) $30.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,167.23 
(for 1st $25,000) $25.68 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,809.23 
(for 1st $50,000) $29.65 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$3,291.66 
(for 1st $100,000) $8.87 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$6,840.11 
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$12,116.17 
(for 1st $1,00,000)  $1.64 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$18,676.23 
(for 1st $5,000,000) $2.60 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$31,656.34 
(for 1st $10,000,000) $1.39 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$52,480.51 
(for 1st $25,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$78,440.72 
(for 1st $50,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$104,400.93 
(for 1st $75,000,000) $0.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
$10,000,000.01 - $25,000,000.00
$25,000,000.01 - $50,000,000.00
$50,000,000.01 - $75,000,000.00
$75,000,000.01 and Over
COMMERCIAL BUILDING PERMIT AND 
INSPECTION
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$1.00 - $500.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES 
(continued)
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $500,000.00
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.01 - $5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.01 - $10,000,000.00
Page 2.2
120 of 282

--- page 121 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
C.
Valuation
$262.61 
Valuation
$262.61 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$455.21 
(for 1st $2,000) $30.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,167.23 
(for 1st $25,000) $25.68 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,809.23 
(for 1st $50,000) $29.65 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$3,291.66 
(for 1st $100,000) $8.87 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$6,840.11 
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$12,116.17 
(for 1st $1,00,000)  $3.57 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$26,380.28 
(for 1st $5,000,000) $5.16 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$52,200.46 
(for 1st $10,000,000) $1.73 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$78,160.67 
(for 1st $25,000,000) $1.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$116,960.96 
(for 1st $50,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$142,921.17 
(for 1st $75,000,000) $0.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
NOTE: Valuation shall be determined based upon the International Code Council's most recently published Building Valuation Table with a regional 
cost modifier of 2.93. The project valuation will be inclusive of all trades - Building, Electrical, Mechanical, and Plumbing. The Building Official may 
adjust the plan checking/permit fee for an individual project when costs to the City are not congruent with this fee schedule.
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES 
(continued)
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 
PERMT AND INSPECTION
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $500,000.00
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.01 - $5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.01 - $10,000,000.00
$10,000,000.01 - $25,000,000.00
$25,000,000.01 - $50,000,000.00
$50,000,000.01 - $75,000,000.00
$75,000,000.01 and Over
Page 2.3
121 of 282

--- page 122 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
III.
A.
1.
Commercial and Multi-Residential
0 -10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
10,001-35,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
35,001-75,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
75,001-120,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
Over 120,000 Square Feet
Per Hour
*See Note Below
2.
Single Family and Duplex Plan Review
0-10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
B.
Fee
0.34% of Valuation
C.
Hourly Rate
Please refer to Building, Fire and Planning Hourly 
Rate
D.
Fee / Actual Cost
 Actual Cost for all City Departments for additional 
identical and mirror image plan checks where 
applicable codes have not changed. 
E.
a. Park and Recreation Tax on Residential 
Building Permits
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
a. Consultants for specialized plan checking and 
inspection services or to expedite plan checking 
and inspection services
Fee is per Consultant's rate
b. Reimburse cost of staff or consultant time 
spent in plan check or inspection services.  Park 
Plan Check and Inspection Services on Building 
Permits. Fee to be collected at time of Building 
Permit application. After payment of fees, 
Permittee may apply for an exemption for 
projects having no Park Plan Check or Inspection 
Requirements.
Building Valuation on 
Those Building Permits 
Whose Valuation is Over 
$5,000
0.05%
F.
Construction Valuation of  
All Projects
0.59% of valuation
G.
Fee
 13 mills/$1,000 valuation
Residential (Minimum $0.50)
28 mills/$1,000 valuation
Non-Residential. (Minimum $0.50) 
H.
Fee
 $1/$25,000 valuation 
I.
Percentage
0.15% of valuation
J.
All Required Permits
 Minimum of 100% of all building permit fees 
GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE FEE
STATE TAX
Strong motion instrumentation and seismic hazard 
mapping (Fee set by State of California).
BUILDING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION 
SPECIAL REVOLVING FUND
TECHNOLOGY FEE
CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT A PERMIT
Penalty incurred when any construction is performed 
without a permit.
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED PLAN REVIEW & 
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
FIRE PLAN CHECK
*These fees are collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. The current fee charged may be higher than those listed. Please see 
the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo 
Consolidated Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
PLANNING SUPPORT FEE (PLAN 
CHECK/INSPECTION)
(Fee covers initial review and 2 resubmittals)  The fee 
will be charged for all projects which require a 
planning application, for new single-family homes 
and duplexes, and for any other permit application 
that requires review by the Planning  Division.
ADDITIONAL PLAN REVIEW FEES FOR 
PROJECTS REVIEWED 4TH REVIEW AND 
BEYOND
PLAN CHECK FEES FOR IDENTICAL AND 
MIRROR IMAGE PLANS
PARKS AND RECREATION FEES
1. Park and Landscape Resources
2. Development Project Review Fee
Page 2.4
122 of 282

--- page 123 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
A.
Per Hr (Min. 2 Hours)
$257.00 
B.
Per Hr (Min. 1 Hour)
$257.00 
C.
Per Hr
(Min. 1/2 Hour)
$268.00 
D.
Per Reactivation
$160.00 
E.
Per Hour
$222.00 
F.
Each
$586.00 
G.
Each
$825.00 
H.
$198.00 
I.
1. Single Family Dwellings/Duplex's
Each
$490.00 
2. Multi-Family, Mixed Use/Commercial
0-5,000 Sq Ft
Each
$490.00 
Over 5,000 Sq Ft
Each
$875.00 
J.
1. Bathroom or Kitchen Remodels - Per Remodel
Each Combination Permit
$654.00 
K.
Each
$391.00 
L.
Each
$584.00 
M.
Each
$589.00 
N.
Each
$461.00 
O.
Each
$2,573.50 
Each
$1,846.00 
P.
Each
$1,321.50 
CALIFORNIA'S EARTHQUAKE BRACE AND 
BOLT RETROFIT PROGRAM
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
Remodel
REACTIVIATION FEE FOR EXPIRED PERMITS 
(Use 50% of original permit fee if permit fee is less 
than the reactivation fee)
APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS WHICH HAVE BEEN 
DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE OR WHICH 
ARE BEING DEMOLISHED ON APPROVAL OF 
THE BUILDING OFFICIAL UNDER SECTION 
23.06.100.
APPLICATION FOR ALTERNATE MATERIALS 
AND CODE INTERPRETATIONS
PERMITS FOR SMALL ANIMAL & FOWL
RE-ROOF'S
COMBINATION BUILDING, PLUMBING, 
ELECTRICAL, AND MECHANICAL PERMITS 
FOR MINOR RESIDENTIAL REMODELS:
HARDSHIP WAIVER FOR DISABLED ACCESS 
REQUIREMENTS
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 
5 maximum)
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 
more than 5)
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and 
mechanical permits.
INSPECTIONS OUTSIDE OF NORMAL BUINESS 
HOURS 
REINSPECTION FEE
PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED BY CHANGES, 
ADDITIONS OR REVISIONS TO APPROVED 
PLANS, OR MORE THAN TWO RECHECKS
New Construction
Page 2.5
123 of 282

--- page 124 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
Q.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 50 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
51 kW to 250 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kW up to 250 kW
251 kW and up
Each
$2,400.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kW over 250 kW
R.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 30 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
31 kWth to 260 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kWth up to 260 kWth
261 kWth and up
Each
$2,610.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kWth over 260 kWth
S.
1. Single Family Dwellings & Duplexes
Each
$194.00 
2. Multi-Family/Commercial (Level I/II)
1-6 Stations
Each
$546.00 
7+ Stations
Each
$1,027.00 
Multi-Family/Commercial (Level III)
1-6 Stations
Each
$892.00 
7+ Stations
Each
$1,331.00 
T.
Each
$438.00 
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$263.00 
B.
COMMERCIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$1,132.00 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.22 
D.
Each
$840.00 
TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
ELECTRICAL WORK ONLY
ELECTRICAL REWIRING FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES (continued)
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and 
mechanical permits.
ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (Fee set by 
State of California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS (Fee set by State of 
California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
Page 2.6
124 of 282

--- page 125 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VI. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$263.00 
B.
COMMERCIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$875.00 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.22 
D.
Each
$362.00 
E.
Each
$753.00 
VII. PLUMBING PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
 Each 
$263.00 
B.
COMMERCIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
 Each 
$875.00 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.22 
D.
TANKLESS WATER HEATER
 Each 
$461.00 
E.
 Each 
$840.00 
VIII. SIGN PERMIT FEES**
Permit fee determined by Commercial Valuation 
Table
 Each 
$198.00 
IX. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$1.09 
A.
B.
C.
X.
A.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$11.35 
B.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$5.68 
C.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$28.36 
XI.
 Each 
0.5% of valuation
RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, 
AND MEDICAL OFFICES
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family 
residential projects exceeding three (3) million dollars in 
building permit valuation.
Projects over 10,000 sq. ft. that are one or more of the 
following:
NEW COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF 
SUPERSTRUCTURE
ADDITION OF SQUARE FOOTAGE TO 
EXISTING COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS 
REQUIRING PLANNING APPROVAL
COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council adopted September 16, 2016 - effective 
November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and 
government facilities, churches, schools and child care 
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (REPLACEMENT AT 
SAME LOCATION FOR SFR AND DUPLEX)
REPIPE FOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS FOR 
SFR AND DUPLEX
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (RELOCATIONS AND 
NEW INSTALLATIONS FOR SFR AND DUPLEX)
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
PLUMBING WORK ONLY
All permanent signs
Temporary Banner (30-day)
**PENALTY: When a sign permit is required and a sign is installed prior to obtaining a permit, a double fee shall be charged.
HOTELS
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
MECHANICAL WORK ONLY
Page 2.7
125 of 282

--- page 126 ---
UNIT
I.
1.
First Citation
$100.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
II.
First Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$300.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
III.
Each Case
Actual Cost *
IV.
Each Appeal
$500.00
V.
Each Inspection
$100.00
ABATEMENT ORDER VIOLATION CORRECTION RE-INSPECTION 
FEE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CODE ENFORCEMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
 FEE 
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC 
WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PER 
SMMC 1.10.
Violations of the SMMC Administrative Citation Ordinance which have 
been abated within 10 days of service and verified by the Code 
Enforcement Division have a reduced fee.
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SAME 
SMMC SECTION WITHIN 12 MONTHS OF INITIAL CITATION
VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC REQUIRING 1) ORDER OF 
ABATEMENT, 2) AN INSPECTION OF SEIZURE WARRANT, 3) A 
POSTING OF AN ORDER DESIGNATING THE PROPERTY AS 
UNSAGE TO OCCUPY, 4) THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS OR 5) SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF 
*Actual Cost includes all costs of abatement, including, but not limited to: code 
enforcement staff, and associated indirect costs, such as labor, equipment, private 
contractor, materials, materials storage, and all other costs reasonable and 
necessary to abate the nuisance.
APPEAL OF A DECISION OR ORDER TO ABATE
Page 3.1
126 of 282

--- page 127 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
I.
PLANNING APPLICATIONS
A. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 
DECISION (SINGLE FAMILY ONLY OR CERTIFICATE OF 
PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY - ALCOHOLIC 
BEVERAGES)
Initial Deposit
$4,000.00
B. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 
DECISION (OTHER THAN SINGLE FAMILY OR PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$6,000.00
C. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION 
DECISION - IF NO PRE-APPLICATION REQUIRED
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION 
DECISION - IF PRE-APPLICATION REQUIRED
Initial Deposit
$50,000.00
E. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION & 
CITY COUNCIL DECISION 
Initial Deposit
$100,000.00
F. FENCE EXCEPTION SPAR PLANNING APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$2,000.00
G. SPECIAL USE PERMIT - DAY CARE FACILITIES
Flat fee
$2,000.00
H. ANNUAL REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
Initial Deposit
$4,500.00
I.
DESIGN REVIEW BY CONSULTING ARCHITECT (required for 
projects with 6+ units, 10,000+ SF non-residential; or other projects 
as determined by City Resolution)
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
J.
LARGE PROJECT PRE-APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$25,000.00
K. INFORMATIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING (PRE-
APPLICATION) PUBLIC NOTICE LIST PREPARATION
Flat Fee
$479.00
L. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION
Initial Deposit
$3,000.00
M. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
PLANNING COMMISSION DECISION
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
II.
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCE (CEQA) PROCESSING
A. CATEGORICAL OR STATUTORY EXEMPTION (Excluding 
Single Family and PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$500.00
B. INITIAL STUDY/NEGATIVE DECLARATION
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
C. INITIAL STUDY/EIR
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. MANDATED FEDERAL, STATE OR COUNTY FEES (e.g., Fish 
& Game CEQA Fee; Fish & Game Code §711.4; Negative 
Declaration; EIR)
As Mandated by State
N/A
III. CITY STAFF TIME
Planning Staff
Hourly Rate
$275.00
All City departments reviewing a planning application.
Hourly Rate
Actual Cost
IV. MONITORING OF REQUIRED MITIGATION MEASURE
Initial Deposit for 
Determined for each project.
V.
INVESTIGATION
FEE for properties with code violations before or after planning 
approval.
Hourly Rate
$275.00
VI. RESEARCH FEE
A. RETRIEVAL OF OFF-SITE PLANNING APPLICATION 
Flat Fee
$170.00
B. RESEARCH REQUIRING EXTENSIVE STAFF TIME
Hourly Rate
$275.00
C. POST PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECT CONSULTATION
Hourly Rate
$275.00
VII. APPEALS
A. APPEAL FEE - ALL PLANNING APPLICATIONS
Flat Fee
$500.00
VIII. LANDSCAPE UNIT IN-LIEU FEES
Per Landscape Unit
$324.53
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 4.1
127 of 282

--- page 128 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IX. SUBORDINATION PROCESSING FEE
Applies to requests to allow City Housing Program loans to 
subordinate to new mortgage lenders in conjunction with refinances.
Per Loan
$250.00
X.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$27,352.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$54,704.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$82,056.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$109,408.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$23,737.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$47,473.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$71,210.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$94,947.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$136,760.00
6 Unit Project
$164,112.00
7 Unit Project
$191,464.00
8 Unit Project
$218,816.00
9 Unit Project
$246,168.00
10 Unit Project
$273,520.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$118,683.00
6 Unit Project
$142,420.00
7 Unit Project
$166,156.00
8 Unit Project
$189,893.00
9 Unit Project
$213,630.00
10 Unit Project
$237,366.00
XI. POLICIES RE: PLANNING FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
The cost for staff time expended by all city staff pursuant to a planning application shall be billed to the project account at the 
hourly rate in section III.
Under extenuating circumstances, the Community Development Director has the authority to set a deposit amount below the 
amount indicated in the fee schedule.
"Planning applications" include: site plan and architectural review; special use permit; temporary use permit; variance; site 
development permit; subdivision and parcel maps; reclassification; planned development; general plan amendment; specific plan 
amendment; code amendments regarding land use regulation; development agreements, downtown economic development permit;  
planned signing districts and freestanding signs over 8 feet in commercial districts, single family dwelling design review (SFDDR), 
mills act contract, historic building survey amendment,  historic building demolition permit and other planning applications as set 
forth in Chapter 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below 
Market Rate program:
If the cost of the staff time spent on the application(s) is less than the amount of the deposit, the balance shall be refunded to the 
applicant.
If at any time before action is taken on an application, more than 70% of the deposit has been expended on the application, the 
applicant shall be required to pay an additional deposit.
No public hearing on a planning application shall be held unless all deposits requested have been fully paid. No application by an 
applicant shall be accepted as complete pursuant to title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code if that applicant has failed to pay 
amounts due and payable for another planning application.
The applicant is responsible for paying the costs of staff and consultant time incurred pursuant to any appeal.
The applicant shall pay the actual cost of any consultant services required to process a planning application including the 
environmental (CEQA) clearance processing.
Page 4.2
128 of 282

--- page 129 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. BUSINESS LICENSE LISTING
Each Qtr.
$32.00
II. RETURNED CHECK PROCESSING CHARGE
(Non-sufficient fund checks and other issues)
Each
$25.00
III. STATE MANDATED DISABILITY ACCESS FEE (SB 1186)
On each Business Tax application and renewal
Each
$4.00
IV. NEW BUSINESS - FIRE INSPECTION
Each
See Note Below* 
V. COLLECTION REFERRAL CHARGE
Each
$25.00
FINANCE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
*This fee is collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. Please see the San Mateo Consolidated Fire
Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo Consolidated
Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
Page 5.1
129 of 282

--- page 130 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. GIS SERVICES
Hour
$91.00
Additional Time (Hourly)
$91.00
B. HARDCOPY PLOTS OF CITY MAPS
Each
$16.75
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
GIS MAPPING / ELECTRONIC DATA FEES
Page 6.1
130 of 282

--- page 131 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. FINES
A. OVERDUE MATERIAL
1. Adult  Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.25
2. Juvenile Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.15
**No overdue fines for borrowers ages 19 & under
3. Technology Lending Devices
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
a. Cleaning Fee for Devices
Per Item
$10.00
B. OVERDUE MAXIMUM FINE
1. Adult
Per Item
$8.00
2. Juvenile
Per Item
$4.00
C. LINK + SERVICE
1. Overdue materials
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
2. Overdue maximum fine
Per Item
$15.00
3. Replacement charges
Per Item
$115.00
II. FEES
A.
Per Item
Price of material
+ processing fee of $5.00
B. COPY CHARGES
1. Photocopy machine
a. Black/white copies
Per Copy
$0.15
2. Computer printer copy
a. Black/white copies
Per Page After 3 Pages
$0.15
b. Microform reader-printer
Per Copy
$0.15
c. Color computer printer copy
Per Copy
$0.30
C. COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS, MAIN LIBRARY
1. Oak Room and courtyard
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$190.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $30 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$155.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$120.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$250.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$280.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$280.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$370.00
g. Music recitals
Per Use (Up to 3 Hours)
$140.00
h. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$350.00
2. Laurel and Cedar Rooms
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$105.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $15 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$90.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$90.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$120.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$215.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$280.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$280.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$370.00
g. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$255.00
REPLACEMENT CHARGE FOR EACH ITEM LOST OR 
DAMAGED
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 7.1
131 of 282

--- page 132 ---
UNIT
FEE
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II. FEES (continued)
3. Library computer training room
a. Non profit/not for profit Use of:
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$145.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$190.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$245.00 per every 4 hrs
b. Resident or Non-Resident Use of:
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$195.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$255.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$330.00 per every 4 hrs
c. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$500.00
d. A/V Technician Use of:
1 - 10 computers
Per Use
$35.00
11 - 20 computers
Per Use
$75.00
21 – 26 computers
Per Use
$110.00
4. Library – Other Areas
a. Other Library areas – fees to be determined on a case-by-case
basis by City Librarian or designee
Per Hour/Per Area
Up to $375.00
b. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
Up to $500.00
5. Miscellaneous Meeting Room Fees
a. A/V Technician
Per Use
$35.00
A/V Technician – special projects
Per Hour
$55.00
b. Portable Stage rental:
Single stage (8’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$155.00
Double stage (16’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$215.00
c. Conference Phone rental
Per Use
$35.00
d. Piano tuning (special request)
Each
$200.00
D. COMPUTER FILES STORAGE DEVICES
1. USB flash drive
Each
$15.00
E. MATERIAL RECOVERY FEE
Per Account
$10.00
F. LIBRARY LOGO TOTE BAGS
Each
$25.00
G. PASSPORT PROCESSING SERVICES
1. Adult Passport Book & Card
Each
$175.00
2. Adult Passport Book
Each
$145.00
3. Adult Passport Card
Each
$65.00
4. Minor Passport Book & Card
Each
$130.00
5. Minor Passport Book
Each
$115.00
6. Minor Passport Card
Each
$50.00
7. Expedite Fee Per Passport
Each
$60.00
8. Express Service to Processing Center
a. USPS Express Mail (up to 8 oz.)
Per Mailing Unit
Current postal rate
H.
1. One-time use fee per digital file for any medium
a. Personal/non profit use
Each
$20.00
b. For profit/commercial use
Each
$40.00
III. RESEARCH SERVICE
A. OBITUARY SEARCH SERVICE
Each
$20.00
Search for Non-San
Mateo County residents
USE FEES FOR PHOTOGRAPHS FROM DIGITAL ARCHIVES 
Page 7.2
132 of 282

--- page 133 ---









PARKS AND RECREATION
RECREATION COST RECOVERY AND PRICING POLICY*
The following shall serve as the policy guidance for establishing a Recreation Activities Cost Recovery Plan, developing annual activity budgets, and 
establishing fees to be charged for recreation activities. The specific elements of this policy are that:
The Park and Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Model shall be used.
In recognition of the wide variety of service values and revenue generating potentials of various activities, specific cost recovery thresholds shall 
be established for each recreation activity area at the most specific programming level that is administratively practical.
The thresholds shall include both minimum and target levels of cost recovery.
Strategies for achieving the minimum and target thresholds shall be established by staff for each activity area. These strategies may include 
immediate or gradual action depending upon the best interests of maintaining a strong program, achieving the target within a reasonable time 
period and current fiscal conditions.
Activity areas unable to meet their minimum threshold after these strategies have been applied shall be reviewed by the Park and Recreation 
Commission for consideration of recommending appropriate action: reduce costs; reduce cost recovery target; eliminate activity.
Activities that have achieved or exceeded their target threshold shall be evaluated to determine if the target can/should be increased.
 The Cost Recovery Plan shall, where appropriate, also include specific other fee considerations (e.g. benchmarking to a specific competitor) 
that may supersede cost recovery target considerations.
Once a Cost Recovery Plan is established, and within that context, staff shall have the authority to set and adjust fees, except that no fee 
increase shall exceed 20% within a 1-year period without the review of the Park and Recreation Commission and approval of the City Council.
As part of the budgetary process, the Park and Recreation Commission shall review the Cost Recovery Plan and the performance of each 
activity compared to the plan and make any recommendations for changes to the plan.
Page 8.1
133 of 282

--- page 134 ---
Operating Indirect Overhead (Op IOH): Division level and shared costs, such as departmental management, brochure, printing, 
photocopying, training, accounting support, technology, credit card discount costs, administrative office clerical support, 
computer, and recreation equipment sinking fund charges
Facility Indirect Overhead (Fac IOH): Calculated charges for the Public Works Building Maintenance for on-going 
maintenance and repairs (e.g. plumbing, electrical, mechanical, carpentry, painting).
Recreation Cost Tier Definitions
Direct: The specific “go-away” costs at the course or activity level. These include leaders, instructors and materials or services 
(e.g. transportation) specific to the course or activity.
Program Direct Overhead (DOH): Direct supervision of the program, and minor miscellaneous items such as supervisor 
mileage.
Facility Overhead (FOH): The combination of facility direct costs (the day-to-day costs to keep the building open- receptionist, 
custodial services, custodial products, utilities) and facility direct overhead (primarily facility supervision).
Page 8.2
PARKS AND RECREATION
134 of 282

--- page 135 ---
MINIMUM
Direct
Direct
75% Direct
Direct
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
MINIMUM
Direct
50% of Direct
100% Subsidy
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Swimming Lessons
King Center Teen Programs
King Center Drop-In
Senior Services Link
Group 2- Composed of core programs for youth and seniors, with service values as higher consideration. Typical thresholds 
ACTIVITY
Children's Services Center Based 
King Center Children's Programs
Youth Art
Youth Gymnastics
Teen Dances
Senior Center Programs
Senior Center Special Events
Children's Services Special 
Youth Dance/Dance Shows
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS
Group 1- Highest service value consideration- composed of core youth programs. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- From 
100% subsidy to direct cost recovery. Target- From 100% subsidy through Direct Overhead (DOH).
Recreation Swim
Building Blocks
Summer Flex Camps
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Benchmark fees to bottom end of Peninsula cities
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities
ACTIVITY
TARGET
Through FOH
Through DOH
Direct
Through DOH
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities.
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Direct +20%
Direct
100% Subsidy
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct
Direct
Through DOH
Page 8.3
PARKS AND RECREATION
135 of 282

--- page 136 ---
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct + additional 
required office staffing
Through DOH
67% of food costs
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
NOTE:
*
Fees established through the Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Policy shall be collected at the time of course registration, with 
certain exceptions. Prior to completion of a course, patrons may withdraw from a course and receive a refund. Refunds may be 
returned immediately or left on account with the Recreation Division for two years. After two years, all credits left on account by 
patrons that have not participated in Division activities for two years or more are donated to the Recreation Fee Assistance 
Program.
Does not include special non-general fund revenues or expenses from grants, trust, etc.
Youth Sports Camps
Miscellaneous Athletic Activities
Beresford Kids Club
Through FOH
Through FOH
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS (continued)
Group 3- Composed primarily of adult core, and youth additional typical programs, in which both service and cost recovery 
values are of strong consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- Through 
Facility Overhead (FOH)
ACTIVITY
Youth Music/Drama
Through FOH
Benchmark fees to San Mateo Foster City School 
Through FOH
Martial Arts
Through Operating 
Indirect Overhead
Adult Music/Drama
Adult Dance
Senior Lunch
Specialized Aquatics Programs
Adult Swimfit
Tennis
Adult Sports Leagues
Adult Arts and Crafts
Benchmark fees to less than top of market.
Fees less than top of market.
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Adult Fitness
Youth Fitness
Golf Lessons
Ice Skating
Youth Leisure Education
Adults Leisure Education
Full Cost Recovery
Through FOH
Through FOH
Group 4- Composed primarily of specialty activities, with cost recovery considerations of highest consideration among the 4 
groups. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- range of from through Facility 
Overhead (FOH) to full recovery.
ACTIVITY
TARGET
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Through Operating 
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Direct
Page 8.4
PARKS AND RECREATION
136 of 282

--- page 137 ---
UNIT 
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/21
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/22
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES
A.
Beresford
Shelter
Per Use
$180.00
$200.00
Area #1
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area #2
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area #3
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Bocce Court Tables
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Central
Entire Area 
Per Use
$425.00
$425.00
Area 1
Per Use
$180.00
$180.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Area 3
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Area 4 
Per Use
$65.00
$85.00
Harborview Park
Per Use
$65.00
$85.00
Indian Springs Park
Per Use
$65.00
$85.00
Joinville
Entire facility
Per Use
$205.00
$205.00
Area 1
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area 2
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area 3
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
King
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Lakeshore 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Laurelwood 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Los Prados 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Paddock Park
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Parkside Aquatic
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Ryder Park
Area 1
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Entire Facility 
Per Use
$180.00
$200.00
Shoreview
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Alcohol Fee 
Per Use
$50.00
$50.00
Jumper Fee
Per Use
$25.00
$25.00
Picnic Use/Cleanup Deposit 
Beresford Shelter
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Central Park – entire area 
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Bayside/Joinville – entire area 
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Ryder – entire area
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
All other areas
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
B. SPECIAL PARK PERMITS 
Filming for commercial purposes
Hour
$50.00
$50.00
Japanese Garden or Rose Garden
Per Use
$205.00
$205.00
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Per Hour
$100.00
$100.00
Per Hour
$125.00
$125.00
Per Booking
$30.00
$30.00
Per Use
$28.00
$28.00
Per Use
$150.00
$150.00
Central outdoor stage
Per Use
$50.00
$50.00
Special Event Fee (minimum two hours)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Special Event Alcohol Fee
Per Use
$260.00
$260.00
Non-Resident
Resident Extra Hours
Non Profit Rate
Per occasion when using rec ctr.
Resident
PICNIC AREAS
Casanova
Non Resident Extra Hours
Chair Set-up
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.5
PARKS AND RECREATION
137 of 282

--- page 138 ---
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/21
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/22
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES (continued)
C.
Field Reservations
Priority 1
No fee
No fee
Priority 2
Youth Field Player Fee (Per season)
Per Player
$8.00
$8.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$8.00
$8.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$15.00
$15.00
Tournament
Per Use/Field
$100.00
$100.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$260.00
Priority 3-4
Youth Field Player Fee (Per season)
Per Player
$20.00
$20.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$20.00
$20.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$40.00
$40.00
Tournament
Per Use
$210.00
$210.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$260.00
Priority 5
Resident Adult Field Reservation (Per season)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Priority 6
NR Adult Reservation Field
Per Hour
$32.00
$32.00
Non-Athletic based NP Field Reservation
Per Hour
$15.00
$15.00
Private Tournament
Per Use/Field
$210.00
$210.00
Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$260.00
Light Charges
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Fields - Unlocked Soccer Goal Fee 
Per Request
$25.00
$25.00
Field Attendant
Per Hour
$20.00
Staff Rate
Tennis Court Reservation
Per Hour
$9.00
$9.00
Bocce Courts (4 hours or less) 
Per Booking
$11.00
$11.00
Bocce Courts (4+ hours) 
Per Booking
$25.00
$25.00
Outdoor Fitness Fee
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
San Mateo High School Gymnasium Rentals
Gym
Per Hour
$75.00
$75.00
Lobby
Per Hour
$30.00
$30.00
Dance Studio
Per Hour
$35.00
$35.00
Multi-Purpose Room
Per Hour
$35.00
$35.00
ATHLETICS (Priority Levels defined on page 8.13)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.6
PARKS AND RECREATION
138 of 282

--- page 139 ---
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/21
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/22
II.
AQUATICS - (See Classification Categories on page 8.12)
D. CENTER RENTALS - (See pages 8.10 - 8.12)
JOINVILLE
Large Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$24.00
$24.00
Classification E
$35.00
$35.00
Non-Resident
$43.00
$43.00
Small Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$12.00
$12.00
Classification E
$18.00
$18.00
Non-Resident
$22.00
$22.00
Multi-Purpose Room
See 
Community 
See 
Community 
Off Season Closure Period
By negotiation 
- full cost 
By negotiation 
- full cost 
BIRTHDAY PARTY FEE
Reservation Fee/Deposit
Includes 15 Guests
$95.00
$95.00
Additional Guests
Up to 20 Guests
$6.00
$6.00
KING POOL
Both Pools (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
$20.00
Classification E
$30.00
$30.00
Non-Resident
$37.00
$37.00
Off Season Closure Period
By negotiation 
BOATHOUSE
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
$20.00
Classification E
$32.00
$32.00
Non-Resident
$41.00
$41.00
FACILITY PERS. RATES
Custodian
Per Hour
$30.000
Staff Rate
Facility Specialist
Per Hour
$20.000
Staff Rate
LIFEGUARDS
1st Guard - Senior Guard
Per Hour
$20.000
Staff Rate
2nd & each additional Guard
Per Hour
$17.000
Staff Rate
MARINA LAGOON
Boating pass (power boats 5 hp and up)
Annual
$450.00
$450.00
Daily
$40.00
$40.00
Boating pass (under 5 hp and sail over 8 ft.)
Annual
$250.00
$250.00
Daily
$25.00
$25.00
III. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
Volleyball net and standards rental
Per Weekend
$30.00
$30.00
Refundable Deposit
$100.00
$100.00
Custodian 
Per Hour
Staff Rate
Staff Rate
Clay
25 lb Bag
Actual cost
Actual cost
PHOTOCOPY & MAILINGS
Agendas
Year
$6.00
$6.00
Agendas & Minutes
Year
$12.00
$12.00
Photocopies
Per Sheet
$0.15
$0.15
IV. SCHOOL DISTRICT FEES
A.  
B. SAN MATEO FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (SMFCSD)
Fees shall be applied to the district and affiliated organizations (eg. PTA, Boosters, Foundation) as follows:
SAN MATEO HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
Unless otherwise specified in an adopted facility use agreement, indoor, swimming pool and athletic facility fees shall be calculated administratively to be 
comparable to the SMUHSD fee schedule as it pertains to City use of similar SMUHSD facilities.
Picnic and special park facility fees, and staffing fees charged to SMUHSD shall be at the rates described in other sections of the fee schedule.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.7
PARKS AND RECREATION
139 of 282

--- page 140 ---
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/21
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/22
V.
GOLF COURSE
A. GENERAL
Weekdays
Per Round
$39.00
$39.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$28.00
$28.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$20.00
$20.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$55.00
$55.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$35.00
$35.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$27.00
$27.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$25.00
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$29.00
$29.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$310.00
$310.00
B. RESIDENT
Weekdays
Per Round
$34.00
$34.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$28.00
$28.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$20.00
$20.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$47.00
$47.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$35.00
$35.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$27.00
$27.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$25.00
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$29.00
$29.00
Senior Weekdays
Per Round
$30.00
$30.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$260.00
$260.00
C. JUNIOR
Jr. Weekdays
Per Round
$15.00
$15.00
Jr. Weekend
Per Round
$18.00
$18.00
D. RESIDENT GOLF I.D. CARD
Per Annual Fee
$20.00
$20.00
E. RANGE BALLS (BUCKET)
Size: Warm-up
$5.00
$5.00
Small
$8.00
$8.00
Medium
$11.00
$11.00
Large
$14.00
$14.00
F. MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTION
Per Month
$29.99
$29.99
VI. PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
A. HERITAGE TREE PERMIT
Per Permit
$100.00
$100.00
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
Per Tree
$740.00
$740.00
Right of Way Tree Removal
Per Hour
Actual cost 
charged by a 
city designated 
Actual cost 
charged by a 
city designated 
Per Residential Unit Type:
Per unit*
Per unit*
B. MEMORIAL BENCH
Per Bench
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
C. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (15 gallon)
Each
$483.00
$483.00
D. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (36 inch box)
Each
$1,480.00
$1,480.00
E. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (48 inch box)
Each
$2,960.00
$2,960.00
F. COMMEMORATIVE TREE
Per Tree
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
G. COMMUNITY GARDENS - Community Garden Plots
Per Square Ft.
$0.28
$0.28
H.
Each
$80.00
$80.00
I. HERITAGE TREE APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL (Applicant Exempt from Fee)
Each
$80.00
$80.00
Single Family
$29,598.00
$29,598.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$27,172.00
$27,172.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$20,476.00
$20,476.00
Mobile Homes
$17,564.00
$17,564.00
K.
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
$0.30
Single Family
3.05
persons per unit
Multi-family 2-4 units
2.80
persons per unit
Multi-family 5+ units
2.11
persons per unit
Mobile Homes
1.81
persons per unit
J.
* Fee = Land Dedication Requirement x Median Land Value of $4,852,055 per acre adopted by City Council Resolution, where Land Dedication Requirement = 
[(Quantity of proposed dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type) less (quantity of existing dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type)] x (2 
acres/ 1000 population) per Muni Code Section 26.64. The population factors per dwelling unit type are as follows:
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
PARK AND RECREATION TAX ON RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMITS 1
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNING APPLICATION 
PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
Golf Fees ‐ The Parks and Recreation Director may adjust green fee amounts for marketing and promotional
activities as is necessary to encourage optimum play at the municipal golf courses.
HERITAGE TREE APPEAL TO PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION (Applicant 
Exempt from Fee)
Page 8.8
PARKS AND RECREATION
140 of 282

--- page 141 ---
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/21
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/22
VII.
A.
Fee is per 
Consultant's 
Fee is per 
Consultant's 
B.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
0.05%
0.05%
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
1These fees are collected by Community Development's Building Division - see page 2.3
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REVIEW FEE1
CONSULTANTS FOR SPECIALIZED PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES OR 
TO EXPEDITE PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES
REIMBURSE COST OF STAFF OR CONSULTANT TIME SPENT IN PLAN CHECK OR 
INSPECTION SERVICES. PARK PLAN CHECK AND INSPECTION SERVICES ON 
BUILDING PERMITS. FEE TO BE COLLECTED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT 
APPLICATION. AFTER PAYMENT OF FEES, PERMITTEE MAY APPLY FOR AN 
EXEMPTION FOR PROJECTS HAVING NO PARK PLAN CHECK OR INSPECTION 
REQUIREMENTS.
Page 8.9
PARKS AND RECREATION
141 of 282

--- page 142 ---
Flat Per Use B-1*
$40.00
$30.00
$25.00
$15.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Flat Per Use B-2*
$50.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Flat Per Use B-3*
$45.00
$35.00
$30.00
$20.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Room Hourly E-1*
Room Hourly 
NR-1*
$120.00
$145.00
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Room Hourly E-2*
Room Hourly 
NR-2*
$170.00
$200.00
$145.00
$170.00
$120.00
$135.00
$70.00
$80.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Hourly E-2
Hourly
NR-2
N/A
N/A
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
Gymnasium (E1, E-2)
$25.00
E-2
$90.00
NR-2
$115.00
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Community Center Fee Schedule
B-1 Classification: (Non-profit (including 501©(6)) conducting business activity)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
B-2 Classification: (Non-profit booking on Sat/Sun beginning after 3 pm or ending after 6pm - fee applies to entire booking)
Room Category
Any Room
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
B-3 Classification: (B-1 groups reserving regular monthly meeting times.)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
E-2 & NR-2 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during non-business hours)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Birthday
Birthday
King
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: If requesting more than one room, use the following chart for additional fees:
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
E-1 & NR-1 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during specifically designated operating hrs.)
Room Category
Page 8.10
PARKS AND RECREATION
142 of 282

--- page 143 ---
Standin
Theatre
Facility
Room
Category
Beresford
Assembly
1
614
439
Beresford
Social
3
359
256
Beresford
Activity
3
540
385
Beresford
Conference
4
Beresford
Studio
4
333
238
Beresford
Club
4
342
244
Beresford
Assembly
2
Central
Activity 
A/B
2
265
189
Central
Activity A
4
Central
Stage
4
307
219
Central
Lounge
4
254
181
Central
Activity B
4
City Hall
City 
Council
2
City Hall
Room C
3
City Hall
Atrium
3
City Hall
Room A
4
211
150
City Hall
Room B
4
City Hall
Cafeteria
4
250
178
King
Assembly
1
125
89
King
Social A/B
2
125
89
King
Studio
4
84
60
King
Social A
4
King
Conference
4
King
Social B
4
Joinville Pool
Multipurpose
4
162
116
170
122
101
72
Sr. Center
Assem/MP
1
158
113
Sr. Center
Activity
3
125
89
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A
4
158
113
Sr. Center
Conference
4
150
107
C. FACILITY CATEGORY TABLES
88
Activity
102
111
114
Activity 
Sr. Center
Assembly
180
Central
Beresford
Assembly
205
King
Assembly
120
Central
Assembly
City Hall
Council 
Chambers
King
Social 
Beresford
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A (Back 
Half)
King
Social B
King
Conference
City Hall
Conf Rm 
Central
Activity 
Beresford
Conference
Beresford
Sr. Center
Activity
Facility
Room
Banquet
85
City Hall
Conf Rm 
C
City Hall
Atrium
Beresford
Social
Studio
83
70
42
Beresford
Studio B
42
Beresford
Club
28
Beresford
Studio A
Conf Rm 
26
Central
Lounge
Central
Stage
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
53
34
King
Studio
53
King
Social A
42
City Hall
Cafeteria
Joinville 
Multipurpose
54
Central
Activity B
57
City Hall
Note - Capacities are fire safety maximums. Rental capacities may vary and are established by each center consistent with use needs.
50
Page 8.11
PARKS AND RECREATION
143 of 282

--- page 144 ---
FACILITY PERMIT CLASSIFICATION DEFINITIONS
Classification A:
Public recreation activities that are co-sponsored by or affiliated with the Recreation Department after meeting 
department qualifications and requirements.
Any recreation, social, business, or service activity conducted by any person or group not included within 
Classifications A or B and are residents or businesses of the City of San Mateo, such as parties and receptions.
E-1: E classification use during specifically designated public facility hours.
Classification B-2:
Any activities scheduled during "Prime Time," defined as any booking beginning 3 p.m. or later, or ending 6 p.m. 
or later on Saturdays and Sundays.
Classification B-3:
B-1 groups reserving regular monthly meeting times.
Classification B-4:
Classification B:
Recreation activities and meetings that are organized, promoted, conducted, and sponsored by registered non-profits 
(IRS registered non-profit or established and organized not-for-profit groups with written organization documents, 
stationary, and/or membership lists) serving residents of the City of San Mateo and whose membership is open to 
the general public.
Classification B-1:
Any activities which are related to the business or mission of the organization.
NR-2: NR use during non-public facility hours.
E-2: E classification use during non-public facility hours.
Non-Resident:
Recreation activities, social, business, or service, meetings, and private groups in which one-half of its current 
membership are not residents of the City of San Mateo or in the case of private groups, such as receptions at parties, 
the applicant (or business) is not a City resident.
NR-1: NR use during specifically designated public facility hours.
B-1 groups participating in in-kind volunteer service fee waiver program.
Classification E:
Page 8.12
PARKS AND RECREATION
144 of 282

--- page 145 ---
Priority 5:
A. Adult resident sports groups or teams.
B. Resident private rentals.
Priority 6:
Youth or Adult non-resident groups, teams, or individuals. Nonresident is defined as having an organization address 
outside of the San Mateo City limits and/or having less than 25% residency.
Programs conducted by Elementary Schools (K-8) within the City of San Mateo. Also programs conducted by 
organizations that limit their recruitment and sign-ups to individuals living within the San Mateo City limits and are 
recreational in nature having a "everyone plays; no child is turned away" philosophy. Residency requirement for 
Priority 2 consideration is a minimum of 90%
Priority 3:
Programs conducted by private high schools within the City of San Mateo. Also, programs conducted by organizations 
in which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations may be "select" in that 
participants may be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 3 consideration is a 
minimum of 50%. Residency verification may be required.
Priority 4:
Programs conducted by organizations in which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. 
Organizations may be "select" in that participants may be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency 
requirement for Priority 4 consideration is a minimum of 25% residency. Residency verification may be required.
Athletics Field Priorities
Priority 1:
Programs and activities conducted or sponsored by the City of San Mateo. This includes the San Mateo Police 
Activities League program(s).
Priority 2:
Page 8.13
PARKS AND RECREATION
145 of 282

--- page 146 ---
UNIT
I.
PERMITS
A. MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT:
1. Establishment Certificate for Non-Practitioner Owners
Base Fee for Processing
$565.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per 
Hour as Appropriate
2. Establishment Certificate for Owner/Practitioners
Verification/Processing/Safety Inspection
Base Fee for Processing
$282.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per 
Hour as Appropriate
B. MASSAGE PRACTITIONER OFF- PREMISE
Verification/Processing
Each
$53.00
C. TANNING SALON
1. Tanning Facility Application Fee
Each
$480.00
2. Tanning Facility Biyearly Renewal Fee
Each Facility
$79.00
D.  TAXI CAB DRIVER Investigation/Processing
New/Renewal
$111.00 1
E. TAXI CAB INSPECTION
$133.00 2
F. ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT
Each
$308.00
G. TOW SERVICE
1. Tow Truck Application Fee
$281.00 1
2. Tow Truck Rotation List
$44.00
3. Tow Truck Licensing Fee
$3.00
H.
Fee/Per Hour
$155.00
II.
COPIES OF REPORTS
A. ACCIDENT REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
B. CAD REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
C. ARREST REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
D. CLEARANCE LETTER
Each
$10.00
E. PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST
Per Page
$0.15
III.
VIDEO/AUDIO TAPE RECORDS AND PHOTOS
A. VIDEO RECORDINGS
1.
Each
$12.00
B. PHOTOS
Each
$5.00
IV.
Each
$15.00
V.
A.
Per 1/4 Hour
$6.00
B.
Per Page
$0.10
C.
Each
Actual Cost
DVD / CD / Flash drive Recording
FILING OF REPORT OF REPOSSESSION 
(State Law GC 41612)
SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM
(State Law CEC 1563)
CLERICAL COSTS (Charged on a 1/4 hr basis w/the hrly rate set at $24.00)
STANDARD REPRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS OF A SIZE OF 8 1/2 X 
14 INCHES OR LESS
REPRODUCTION OF OVERSIZE DOCUMENTS, DOCUMENTS 
REQUIRING SPECIAL PROCESSING, POSTAGE, RETRIEVAL/RETURN 
OF RECORDS HELD OFF-SITE
POLICE 
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
Background Investigation/Verification/ Processing/Safety Inspection
PROJECT PLAN CHECKING FEE ON BUILDING PERMITS
Page 9.1
146 of 282

--- page 147 ---
UNIT
VI.
FALSE ALARMS
First alarm starting each fiscal year (7/1/21)
One
Free
2nd & over
Each
$105.00
VII.
Each
As determined by the County
VIII. OFFICER RESPONSE
A.
Per Hour
$86.95
B.
Per Hour
$86.95
Per Officer
(one (1) hour min.)
C.
See “SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT” Section
D.
Each
$275.00
(per CA Government Code 
68097.2)
IX.
VEHICLE RELEASES
A. IMPOUNDED/STORED VEHICLE
Each
$20.00
X.
One
$107.00
Additional
$70.00
XI.
OUTSIDE DETAIL RATES 3, 4
Police Officer
Per Hour
$104.50
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$125.37
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$63.25
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$82.28
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$81.96
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$52.22
Police Officer
Per Hour
$130.62
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$156.72
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$79.07
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$102.85
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$102.45
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$65.27
Police Department Footnotes:
1 Plus prevailing State, Federal and County Fees for fingerprinting of applicants that are at the following costs:
DOJ Prevailing Fee
$32.00
FBI Prevailing Fee
$17.00
County Prevailing Fee
$5.00
$54.00
2
3
4
In the event the Police Department must augment staffing of an outside detail with personnel from an allied agency, the outside detail rate 
charged shall be commensurate to the actual rate which is charged by that agency, which may be higher/lower than the rate listed.
The rates charged for Outside Detail may be updated during the Fiscal Year to reflect negotiated salary increases and ensure full cost recovery.
Category B: Fund raising events organized, conducted and sponsored by 
registered non- profit organizations.
Category C: Events sponsored by for-profit business or non-tax-exempt 
i
i
The fee will include up to two re-inspections at no additional cost.  Additional inspections will be billed at 50% of the original cost.
OUTSIDE DETAIL
CIVIL SUBPOENA WITNESS FEE DEPOSIT (Governed by State Law). 
Actual costs will be charged
(excluding vehicles towed exclusively under the authority of VC 22651(c), 
(g), (k), (o), (i.)(l), or VC 226.55.5).
Category A: City organized, conducted, sponsored, or co-sponsored events, or 
non- profit sponsored events that benefit city programs.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
BOOKING FEE (UPON CONVICTION) STATE LAW SECTION 29550.1.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE 
(DUI) upon conviction (Gov't Code Section 53150-58)
DISTURBANCE SERVICE FEE
(loud parties, barking dogs, etc.)
STORAGE OF FIREARM 
(Includes safekeeping)
Page 9.2
POLICE 
147 of 282

--- page 148 ---
$77.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$46.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$46.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$46.00
$335.00
$42.00
$335.00
$46.00
$46.00
$56.00
$46.00
$335.00
$144.00
$144.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
Overtime in meter zone/feeding meter
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$46.00
11.48.070
Parking in bus zone (curb marked)
17.08.20
Boat or other object parked on public right-of-way
11.44.150
Meter violation
11.44.160
11.44.165
Repeat violations for overtime parking (2nd violation-same day, same place)
11.48.030
Parking in alley
11.40.110
Parked on private property w/o consent
11.44.090
Parked in front of a hooded meter
11.44.130
Parking over lines
11.40.060
Curb wheels/set brake on hill
11.40.070
Parking so as to obstruct traffic
11.40.100
Violation of emergency signs posted
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted) (No residential parking permit)
11.40.040(b)
Restricted parking on City lot (posted) i.e., City Hall, Rec Centers, Library, etc.
11.40.055
Street sweeping
11.36.010(1)
Parallel parking in angle slot
11.36.020
Angle parking (right front tire not within 18” of curb)
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted)
11.32.070
Red, yellow, etc., curb markings
11.32.100
Commercial vehicle on residential street, 10,000 lbs. GVW
11.32.105
Oversized vehicle/trailer parked on residential street
22523(b)
Abandon vehicle-public/private property
11.32.030
Truck parked on City street (may be used for limos, small shuttle buses, and small school buses)
11.32.040
Parked on parkway (Planting strip)
22521
Parking within 7 ½ feet of train tracks
22522
Blocking disabled ramp
22523(a)
Abandoned vehicle- any highway
22514
Blocking fire hydrant
22515(a)
Parked with engine running and/or parking brake not set
22516
Person locked in vehicle
22500(l)
Blocking wheelchair access to sidewalk
22502(a)
Not within 18” of the curb
22507.8
Handicapped parking
22500(h)
Double parking
22500(i)
Parking within bus zone
22500(k)
Parking upon any bridge
22500(e)
Blocking any driveway
22500(f)
Parking on a sidewalk
22500(g)
Obstructing traffic by parking near excavation
22500(b)
Parking within a crosswalk
22500(c)
Parking within a safety zone
22500(d)
Parking within 15 ft. of fire station driveway
21113
Parking on public grounds-no permit
22500.1
Fire lane
22500(a)
Parking within an intersection
PARKING PENALTY SCHEDULE
Only one violation per citation
4000(a)
Expired registration (make sure you check the POC box)
5200
License plates failure to display (make sure you check the POC box)
5204
Tabs (make sure you check the POC box)
Page 9.3
POLICE 
148 of 282

--- page 149 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
PARKING FEES
A. TEMPORARY NO PARKING METERS (1)
Up to 7 days
Per Day/Per Meter
$12.50
8 – 49 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$75.00
50 – 98 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$150.00
99+ days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$300.00
Per Installation
$77.00
B. TEMPORARY "NO PARKING" SIGNS
Each
$3.00
C. DOWNTOWN PARKING FEE PARKING PASSES
2nd and El Camino Real 
Monthly
$65.00
Central Parking
Monthly
$100.00
Tennis Court Garage 
Monthly
$65.00
Main Street Garage 
Monthly
$65.00
Transit Center
Monthly
$65.00
Railroad Avenue between 5th to 9th
Monthly
$40.00
Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10,
Monthly
$40.00
Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11,
Monthly
$40.00
D. ON-STREET AND OFF-STREET RATES (per SMMC 11.40.010)
($0.50 minimum for credit cards at pay stations)
Time Limit:
Premium On-Street Space 
3 Hours/per Hour
$1.50
Premium Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.25
Premium Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$1.25
(Central Garage – Lots 4, 5, 6)
Value On-Street Spaces
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.00
Value Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$0.75
Value Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$0.75
No Limit
$0.25
E. VALET PARKING PERMIT FEE 
Permit Fee 
Per Permit
$478.00
Implementation/Replacement Costs:
Curb Marking
Each Location
$85.00
Signs
Per Sign
$141.00
Meter Pole/Bracket
Per Pole/Bracket
$40.00
F.
Annually Per Space Per Day
$1.00 x # of spaces x # 
of days of operation per 
week x 52 weeks
G. PUBLIC EV CHARGING STATION
Per kW/h
$0.25
USE OF PUBLIC PARKING SPACES FOR VALET STATIONS
PUBLIC WORKS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
For each time the City installs and removes a meter bag.
(Main Street Garage – Lot 1, Second and ECR Garage – Lot 2, Tennis Court Garage – Lot 3, 5th and 
B Lot – Lot 7, 4th and Railroad Lot – Lot 8, Transit Center – Lot 9, 5th to 9th Ave on S. Railroad 
Ave), Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10, and Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11
Page 10.1
149 of 282

--- page 150 ---
UNIT
FEE
II. ENCROACHMENT PERMITS (see Encroachment Permit Notes (II))
A. NEW INSTALLATION PERMIT
Each
$906.00
Deposit
See Notes
1.
Each
$1,124.00
B. TEMPORARY PERMIT (Note II.B.)
1. Dumpster (Note II. B. 1.)
Each
$385.00
Deposit Per Location
$500.00
2.
Each
$385.00
Deposit Per Location
$1,000.00
3.
Each
$160.00
Deposit
$350.00
Per Container Per Day
$10.00
C.  DOCK PERMIT
1. New Installation and Repair or Replacement (Note II.C.1)
Each
$169.00
Min Deposit Per Dock
$1,000.00
2. Annual Fee (Note II.C.2)
Per Dock
$130.00
D. UTILITY PERMIT
1. Permit Processing Fee (Note II.D.1)
See Notes
2. Deposit for Large projects (Note II.D.2)
Min Deposit Per Location
$1,000.00
E. INVESTIGATION FEE (Note II.E.)
Each
$906.00
F.  
Each
$906.00
G. OUTDOOR RESTAURANT SEATING & MERCHANDISE DISPLAY (Note II.G.)
Each
$371.00
Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review Fee (Note II.A.1.)
Scaffolding/Soil Test and Borings/Sewer or Storm Drain Video Inspection/Traffic Control
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT WORK IN CONJUNCTION WITH SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT 
(Note II.F.)
(Note II.B.2)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Temporary Storage Container/Pod (Note II. B. 3.)
Renewal Fee
Page 10.2
PUBLIC WORKS
150 of 282

--- page 151 ---
NOTES:
II. ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
A.
New Installation Permit
1. Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review Fee
B. 
 Temporary Permit
1.
2.
3.
C.
Dock Permit
1. New Installation and Repair or Replacement
2.
D. Utility Permit
1.
2.
3.
E. Investigation Fees
1.
2.
F. Encroachment Permit Work in Conjunction with Site Development Permit
1.
2.
G. Outdoor Restaurant Seating & Merchandise Display
Work without an encroachment permit will result in an investigation fee. Whenever any work, for which an encroachment permit is required by the San Mateo 
Municipal Code, has commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special investigation shall be completed.  An investigation fee shall be charged and paid 
whether or not a permit is subsequently issued.  The fee must however be paid and the required standard insurance obtained before a permit may be issued for 
such work.
The investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the encroachment permit fee as shown on the City of San Mateo Public Works Fee Schedule. The payment 
of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code, nor from any penalty prescribed by 
law.
All encroachment permits required as a result of any request for service, including conditions applied to Planning items (variances, site plan & architectural reviews, 
planned community developments, and others) shall be charged all appropriate fees as shown above.
Note: There will be no fee for encroachment permits to repair sidewalk tripping hazards as determined by City inspection staff.  A traffic control plan is required for all 
work  as specified in the Encroachment Permit Application packet.
In order to obtain an encroachment permit, a standard Encroachment Permit Application must be filled out by the owner of the property or the contractor performing the 
work. In addition to the required fee and application, all aspects of Chapter 17 of the San Mateo Municipal Code must be adhered to. The applicant must post financial 
security equal to the value of the improvements to secure performance. Labor and materials must also be secured at one-half the value of the improvements. Current 
standard insurance must be on file with the City. Insurance requirements include public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City as an additional insured. 
Evidence of insurance may include a certificate and/or endorsement.
Any improvements not included elsewhere in this section shall be charged the minimum fee shown above.  If a project account has been funded by the applicant, his 
representative or a developer responsible for the construction of the project, will be charged the minimum fee.  A portion of the fee will be used to fund the 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) in accordance with Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The fee and deposit are waived for City 
projects.
Request to place or replace structures such as fences, retaining walls, pilasters, stairs, etc. in the public right-of-way (ROW) when an exception is made by the 
Director of Public Works or designee for such structure. This fee will cover field visit to the site, engineering review of the existing or proposed structure, and 
administrative time to prepare a license agreement. 
When work that requires an encroachment permit is done in conjunction with a Site Development Permit or Project Account, the encroachment permit fee will be 
the same as a New Installation.  The total deposit will then cover fees for required engineering and inspection services by the City related to the encroachment 
and site development permits. The engineering and inspection fees for both the encroachment permit and the site development permit will be charged at the 
current hourly rate.
The fees charged plus the required deposit must be paid and standard insurance must be on file prior to issuance of any encroachment permit. The deposit will be 
held in a project account and any balance remaining after completion of the project will be refunded. Charges in excess of the deposit will be billed and must be 
paid before sign-off by the City that the work related to encroachment and site development permit is complete.
Utility projects considered large, shall place a minimum deposit for review and inspection in a project account. Any funds remaining in the account will be 
refunded after project completion. Projects considered large are as follows:  100 linear feet or more of trenching, projects requiring traffic or pedestrian detours 
on collector and/or arterials roadways, and as determined by the Director of Public Works or designee.
Utility company permit fees will be waived if the utility relocation work is the result of a City project.  Public Utility Commission Rule 20-A projects will also 
result in waiver of encroachment permit fees.
The Applicant shall pay a fee and a minimum deposit to cover department reviews and inspections. Any funds remaining in the account will be refunded after 
project completion.
Annual Fee: Dock owners shall pay an annual fee to cover the costs of program administration and periodic inspections.
Utility companies shall pay a permit processing fee of $385.19.  For each job in the City right-of-way, the utility company shall obtain an encroachment permit, pay a utility 
encroachment permit fee of $192.09 and provide the City with current standard insurance.  A portion of the base fee will be used to fund the Stormwater Pollution Prevention 
Program (STOPPP). Utility encroachment permits shall be obtained prior to any utility work in the City right-of-way.
Request to place outdoor restaurant seating and/or merchandise display in the public right-of-way.  Installations must provide ADA access and minimum pedestrian 
travel way of three (3) feet.
Temporary Storage Container/Pod: A standard encroachment permit, including general liability insurance, will be required for the placement of a temporary 
storage container or portable on-demand storage (Pod) in the public right-of-way. Approved permit renewals will be charged at a rate of $10 per container per 
day.
Dumpsters: A standard encroachment permit, including necessary insurance, will be required for the placement of a dumpster in the public right-of-way.
Scaffolding, soil tests, sewer video inspections, etc.: An encroachment permit may be issued upon completion of an encroachment permit application and proof of 
current standard insurance on file with the City. A fee and security deposit must be posted to insure removal of the temporary encroachment and cover any repair 
costs due to damage that may occur.
Page 10.3
PUBLIC WORKS
151 of 282

--- page 152 ---
UNIT
FEE
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
A. PERMIT FEE - non-refundable
Each
No Fee
Each
$566.00
Each
$566.00
B. EROSION CONTROL MINIMUM COMPLIANCE
Minimum Deposit
$381.00
NOTES:
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
Type III and IV Projects -  Refundable Deposit
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
In order to obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) Construction permit per the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, an applicant (i.e., property 
owner or contractor performing the work) must  pay the appropriate permit fee. Type I Projects are not required to pay the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program 
Construction Permit fee, but are still required to comply with Construction Best Management Practices (BMP) as outlined in the permit card. Storm drain polluters 
may be liable for fines up to $10,000 per day. A permittee under the STOPPP Construction permit is required to adhere to all aspects of Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code.  If the work being done involves an encroachment permit, a separate  STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type I Projects
Type I Projects are small projects not in the public right-of-way that are generally under 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance (i.e. most residential driveways).  If the work 
being done involves an encroachment permit, a separate STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type II Projects
Type II Projects are medium projects generally over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as installation/removal of swimming pools, demolition/installation of garages, 
home additions, retaining walls, and decks, that do not require a planning application and are reviewed through the building permit process (excluding residential 
driveways not in the public right-of-way). The fee for this type of project is listed above. No deposit is required.
Type III Projects
Type III Projects are medium sized projects over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as home additions, new single family homes, that require a planning application. 
The fee for a Type III Project is listed above. Type III projects require a minimum refundable deposit for erosion control plan compliance. The minimum deposit is 
required at plan submittal to guarantee to the City that the permitted will comply with the terms and conditions of the permit. At the time of permit issuance, additional 
funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the 
City in its engineering review and inspection is refundable. Time billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in 
accordance with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has met all 
requirement in the erosion plan and the City has not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
Type I Projects
Type II Projects
Type III and IV Projects
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes for description of types of projects)
PLUS
Type IV Projects
Type IV Projects are large sized projects, 1 acre or greater. Type IV Projects require a General Permit issued by the State Water Resources Control Board in addition to the 
City’s STOPPP Construction Permit. The STOPPP Construction Permit fee is listed above. Type IV projects required a minimum refundable deposit for erosion control 
plan compliance. The minimum deposit is required at plan submittal for additional plan checking and inspection. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be 
required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its 
engineering review and inspection is refundable. Time billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in 
accordance with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has complied 
with the submitted erosion plan and the City has not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf. 
Page 10.4
PUBLIC WORKS
152 of 282

--- page 153 ---
UNIT
FEE
IV. SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS (See SMMC 23.40)
A. PROCESSING FEE - non-refundable
Each
$40.00
PLUS
B. ENGINEERING/INSPECTION FEE (deposits) * *
Minimum Deposit
$2,500.00
185 - 1,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$2,500.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic
 Yard Over 185
$4.00
1,001 - 10,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$5,700.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic
Yard Over 1,000
$0.30
over 10,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$8,400.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic
Yard Over 10,000
$0.25
* *
V.
FINAL MAP-PLAN CHECK/ PROCESSING
A. PARCEL MAPS
Per Map
$2,436.00
B. SUBDIVISIONS
Per Map
$2,757.00
C. LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT/MERGERS (by deed)
Each
$1,596.00
D. CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
Each
$532.00
E. ABANDONMENT EASEMENT / RIGHT-OF-WAY
Hourly
$132.00
Minimum Deposit
$2,205.00
VI. REPAIR TO CITY PROPERTY
A. LABOR
Hour
$132.00
Hour O/T
$198.00
B. CONTRACTOR
Hour
Cost + 5%
C. MATERIAL & EQUIPMENT
Each
Cost + 5%
D. INSPECTION/SURVEY/ ENGINEERING
Hour
$132.00
VII. SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE (Collected by Bldg. Div. w/building permit)
A. RESIDENTIAL
1. Single-family dwelling
Per Connection
$2,680.00
2. Multi-family dwelling
a. Studio, & 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$1,340.00
b. 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,013.00
c. 3 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,680.00
3. Hotels or motels
Per Room/Apt
$1,340.00
4. Board or lodging houses
Per Bedroom
$1,340.00
B. NON-RESIDENTIAL
1. Churches
Per Connection
$2,680.00
2. Golf courses
Per Connection
$2,680.00
3. Hospitals
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00
4. Lodges and clubs
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00
5. Rest, residential care & convalescent homes
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00
6. Schools
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00
C. COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00
NOTES:
VII. SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE  (Collected by Bldg. Div. w/building permit)
1.
2.
3.
4.
a.
b.
c.
The minimum deposits listed are required at plan submittal for plan checking and inspection. At  the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be 
added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering 
review and inspection is refundable. Time will be billed at $130 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in  accordance 
with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions.
The remodeled or new structure will only be assessed a charge for fixture units in excess of those existing, based on the per fixture units identified on the City’s 
sewer connection charge worksheet.
The new plans will be used to determine the number of fixture units in excess of those shown on the demolition plans.
The demolition plans will be used to determine the number of existing fixture units.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
In the case of Commercial and Industrial users, where the building has been previously occupied and the interior is being demolished or remodeled, the sewer 
connection charge will be computed as follows:
Commercial and Industrial users are also charged at the per fixture unit rate identified on the City’s sewer connection charge worksheet. If the commercial or 
industrial user is constructing a new building the minimum charge is assessed at the time a building permit is issued. The charge is based on the number of fixture 
units as determined based on the Uniform Plumbing Code and the City worksheet. If tenant improvements occur after the initial charge is assessed and paid, the 
sewer connection charge at that point will depend on how many fixture units were actually installed as part of the new building permit. New fixture units will be 
charged at the per fixture rate identified on the City’s sewer connection charge worksheet.
Non-Residential hospitals, lodges and clubs, rest, residential care, convalescent homes, and schools are charged at the per fixture unit rate identified on the City’s 
sewer connection charge worksheet.
The assessment of the sewer connection charge is based on the Uniform Plumbing Code in conjunction with the plumbing fixtures identified on the City’s sewer 
connection charge worksheet. The City charges a minimum connection charge for Residential, Churches and Golf Courses. This minimum charge is based on an 
average number of fixture units per dwelling unit or entity.
Equipment rate based on the most recent State "Labor Surcharge and Equipment Rental Rates" book published by 
Caltrans Publications.
Page 10.5
PUBLIC WORKS
153 of 282

--- page 154 ---
UNIT
FEE
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL  COMPLIANCE FEES
A. CLASS A WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$504.49
B. CLASS B WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$348.80
C. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$263.87
D. POLLUTION PREVENTION INSPECTION FEE
Per Hour
$147.61
E. INSPECTION/INVESTIGATION FEE
Per Hour
$131.43
Per Hour OT
$197.15
F. SAMPLING FEE
Per Hour
$131.43
Per Hour OT
$197.15
G. ANALYTICAL SERVICES FEE
Each
Cost
H. HYDRAULIC LOADING CHARGE
Per 100 Cu. Ft.
Basic Sewer Service 
Charge rate
I.
DEFICIENCY RESULTING IN “SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE”
Each
$435.74
J. FAILURE TO CONDUCT SELF-MONITORING
Per Hour
$131.43
K.
Each
$270.95
L. ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP/ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
1. Labor
Per Hour
$131.43
Per Hour OT
$197.15
2. Material And Equipment
Each
Cost
3. Contract Services
Each
Cost
M. APPEAL - of decision to issue permit, levy fees, or finding of noncompliance
$263.00
N.
Each Case
$2,651.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH OFFICIAL NOTICE TO CORRECT VIOLATION
VIOLATIONS REQUIRING INSPECTION WARRANT, OR COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS
Page 10.6
PUBLIC WORKS
154 of 282

--- page 155 ---
NOTES:
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.
J.
K.
L.
M.
N.
Stormwater Management Permit. A property that is required to install, operate, and maintain stormwater treatment facilities, or maintain parking lots, storm drain 
inlets, or other facilities for stormwater pollution prevention as specified in project conditions, shall obtain a Stormwater Management (SWM) permit from the 
Director of Public Works. (7.39.235). Cost based on 2 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Failure to Comply with Official Notice to Correct Violation. When an authorized enforcement official finds that a user has violated or is violating this Chapter, or a 
permit or order issued hereunder, the official may serve upon said user a Notice of Violation which enumerates the violations found, and orders compliance by a date 
certain. (7.38.460, 7.39.270); any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and 
welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance. (7.38.470, 7.39.280)
Failure to Conduct Self-monitoring. The Director may require that the user conduct a sampling and analysis program of the user’s waste or stormwater discharge of a 
frequency and type required by the Director to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. (7.38.360, 7.39.160).
Deficiency Resulting in “Significant Noncompliance”. At least annually, the Director shall provide public notice in the largest local daily newspaper a list of those 
significant industrial users that, during the previous twelve (12) months, were found in significant noncompliance, as defined in the pretreatment regulations and this 
Chapter. (7.38.420). Cost based on administrative time and cost of publication for 3 days in San Mateo County Times.
The following fees are intended to help recover the cost of implementation and enforcement of SMMC Chapter 7.38
Hydraulic Loading Charge. The Director may impose upon the user a hydraulic loading charge for discharge of groundwater or other waters in cases where 
conventional sewer service charges applied by the City or District do not account for said flows or uses. User discharges which exceed 10,000 gallons per batch 
discharge or users undertaking long term discharges of groundwater to the sanitary sewer shall be metered and levied a hydraulic loading charge based upon the basic 
sewer service charge rate. (7.38.260)
Analytical Services Fee. Cost based in service provider cost of service.
Pollution Prevention Inspection Fee. The Director is authorized to conduct all inspection, surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to assure compliance 
with this Chapter. The Director may enter without unreasonable delay, during facility hours of operation, any premises of any user in which a potential pollutant 
discharge source exists or in which facility discharge and materials and waste records are kept. Records shall be made available to the Director for inspection and 
copying. Reasonable times for inspection and sampling may include times that are unannounced. (7.38.350, 7.39.140) Cost based on 0.5- hour admin and inspection 
time per year at standard labor rate.
Violations Requiring Inspection Warrant or Commencement of Civil Litigation Proceedings. In the event that the user refuses the Director entry to the premises, 
inspection may be made only upon the issuance of a search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event that the user refuses entry after the request has been 
made, the Director is hereby empowered to seek assistance from the court in obtaining such entry; Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions 
of this Chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be subject to the imposition of civil penalties pursuant to Chapter 1.11 of this Code. (7.38.350, 
7.39.140, 7.38.410, 7.39.200, 7.38.480, 7.39.290)
Appeal of Decision to Issue Permit, Levy fees, or Finding of Noncompliance. Any person affected by any decision, action or determination, including administrative 
remedies, made in interpreting or implementing the provisions of this Chapter may appeal therefrom to the City of San Mateo Public Works Commission. (7.39.200). 
Fee is refunded if appellant prevails.
Environmental Cleanup/Abatement of Public Nuisance. City may impose a charge upon the user to reimburse the City or District for the cost of cleaning and/or 
repair of City facilities, including mitigation of waste discharge to the storm drainage system; any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the 
provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance., and may be summarily abated and/or restored 
by the City. The cost of such abatement and restoration shall be borne by the owner of the property. (7.38.180, 7.38.470, 7.39.280).
Class B Discharge Permit. A Class B permit shall be issued, at the discretion of the Director, to any user who is not a significant industrial user, yet requires periodic 
inspection and/or monitoring to verify compliance with this Chapter. A Class B permit may be required for discharge of industrial waste from stationary sources, 
trucked wastes, contaminated groundwater, and other industrial wastes approved by the Director for discharge to the sanitary sewer. (7.38.260). Cost based on 1.5 
hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Class A Discharge Permit. A Class A permit shall be issued to all significant industrial users (SIU). Class A permit holders are regulated in accordance with the 
requirements specified in the pretreatment regulations, 40 CFR Part 403 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, as amended, and this Chapter. 
(7.38.260) Cost based on 4 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Inspection/Investigation Fee. Applies to inspection and investigation activities not covered in D. or K. Cost based on standard labor rate.
Sampling Fee. The Director shall have the right to establish on any property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. During all 
inspections as provided herein, the official may take any samples deemed necessary to aid in the pursuit of the inquiry or in the recording of activities on the  site. 
(7.38.350, 7.39.140). Cost based standard labor rate.
Page 10.7
PUBLIC WORKS
155 of 282

--- page 156 ---
UNIT
FEE
IX. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
A. WWTP PHASE II EXPANSION FEE 
Gallon/ADF
$2.34
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Residential
a. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,003.76
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,071.42
2. Commercial and Industrial
a. Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,605.20
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,592.98
c. Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$2,992.33
C. SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Single-family dwelling
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,264.00
2. Multi-family dwelling, 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,632.00
3. Multi-family dwelling, 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,948.00
4. Multi-family dwelling, 3 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,264.00
5. Hotels or motels
Per Room
$2,632.00
6. Non-residential
Per Fixture Unit
$263.00
D.
Per Space
$52,550.00
X. NEWSRACK ORDINANCE VIOLATION
A. ABATEMENT FEE
failure to abate violation for Chapter 17.12 of the S.M.M.C.
Per Violation
$67.00
B. APPEAL OF ABATEMENT ORDER FEE 
(Fee refunded if appellant prevails).
Per Violation
$130.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Developer Impact Fee to pay for the increase of 1.5 Million Gallons a Day of treatment capacity for
biological demand and solids in the Waste Water Treatment Plant. This increase is needed to 
accommodate the loading from future development and connections.
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
Page 10.8
PUBLIC WORKS
156 of 282

--- page 157 ---
UNIT
FEE
XI. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
A. PLANS AND SPECS
Per Set
Varies at cost
B. ENGINEERING PHOTOCOPIES - large sizes
24" x 36"
Per Print
$3.74
36" x no. of feet
Per Print
$3.74
C. PHOTOCOPIES
8.5" x 11"
Per Copy
$0.15
8.5" x 14"
Per Copy
$0.20
11" x 17"
Per Copy
$0.30
D. PLOT COPY FEE – subdivision / parcel map
24" x 36"
Per Copy
$40.00
E. HANG BANNER
Per Request
$260.00
+ certificate of insurance
F. STREET LIGHT BANNER
Per Pole/ Per Banner
$66.00
G. CURB PAINTING:
Red Tipping
Per Request
$177.00
Initial installation (covers two years)
Maintenance Fee (covers two years) is 1/2 of initial installation fee.
Blue Curb (Disabled)
 Per Request 
$210.00
Yellow Curb (Loading Zone) 
Per Request
$210.00
White Curb (Passenger Loading) 
Per Request
$210.00
Green Curb (Limited-Time) 
Per Request
$210.00
Non-Critical Red Zones
Per Request
$210.00
H.
Each
$431.70
I. WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILTIES PERMIT
1. Minor and Major Permits
Min Deposit Per Location 
$7,500.00
2. Section 6409 Permit 
Min Deposit Per Location
$4,000.00
J.
Each
$5,000.00
(Note: Nonprofit organizations may contract with a vendor of their choice to install their banners but an 
encroachment permit is required.)
ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT FEE to be charged when assignment is not required as a condition of 
construction; charge for non-essential address changes only.
Request to place a new facility or substantial modification of an existing facility in the public ROW.  
This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-application phase. The deposit will cover field 
visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, inspections during construction, the 
cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge in connection with 
wireless facilities, including, but not limited to:  permit application completeness and/or accuracy, 
compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites analysis, inspection during 
construction, and administrative time to process the permit application. At the time of permit 
issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less 
than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion not expended by the City is refundable.  
Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
Request to modify an existing facility in the public ROW.  If modifications are deemed substantial, 
applicant shall apply for a Minor or Major Permit.  This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-
application phase and will cover field visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, 
inspections during construction, the cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or 
expert knowledge in connection with wireless facilities, including, but not limited to: permit 
application completeness and/or accuracy, compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative 
sites analysis, inspections during construction, and administrative time to process the permit 
application. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the 
deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion not 
expended by the City is refundable.  Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
SHARED MOBILITY PERMIT APPLICATION FEE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 10.9
PUBLIC WORKS
157 of 282

--- page 158 ---
SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION FEES
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
SPECIAL EVENT FEES FOR SERVICE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
UNIT
FEE
I. USE FEES -
PUBLIC STREETS AND RIGHT OF WAYS
Daily Use Fees:
Per Day
$100.00
Per Day
$200.00
Television Series/Movies/Pilot and Feature Films
Per Day
$300.00
CIVIC FACILITIES, PARKS, SPECIAL USE AREAS (for all uses)
Per Hour
$50.00
II. SUPPORT SERVICES FEES
III. DEPOSIT
All businesses shall submit a refundable deposit in the amount of $1,000.00 at the time fees are due and payable to cover any unanticipated support services 
fees, property damage repair, etc.
Videos/Travel/Documentary/Still Photography/Industrial Commercials
Regular rates for personnel who may be required to prepare specialized logistic plans in support of the event
Actual costs for consumable supplies, e.g. parking meter signs, garbage bags, etc., used in support of the event
Actual cost for specialized services contracted by the City that are required to support the event
$230 - For High Impact events sponsored by non-profits. A high impact event means a special event meeting two or more of the following criteria: 1) Being held for 
the first time; 2) expected to draw more than 500 participants; 3) held on a recurring basis; 4) requiring the support of 2 or more city departments; 5) following a 
route with a   different start and finish; 6) requiring a street closure; or 7) requiring interagency coordination.
$500 – For Low Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
$1,000 – For High Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. See above for definition of a High Impact event.
Depending on the nature of the special event, applicable fees may include some or all of the following:
Filming fees shall apply to commercial businesses desiring to film on public streets, right of ways or within city owned facilities, including parks, civic facilities and 
buildings or special use areas, such as Poplar Creek Golf Course.  Prior to the granting of a permit, all businesses shall comply with all applicable policies and procedures, 
including, but not limited to, evidence of insurance, permits and licenses, and appropriate hold harmless language.
Any filming use that requires any of the following, shall be billed in accordance with the guidelines outlined within the Special Community Events Permit Fee 
section, Category C designation; i.e. for-profit businesses or non-tax exempt organizations:
Fees for use of City equipment, consumable supplies, preparation of specialized logistic plans, specialized contracted services and on-duty personnel will be 
billed at cost, plus a 25% administrative overhead fee.
Fees for use of overtime personnel shall be calculated at the top step prevailing overtime rate for the classification(s) utilized plus a 25% administrative 
SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT
COMMERCIAL FILMING FEES
FEE CATEGORY
Overtime rates for personnel not regularly on duty who are required to work the event
Fair market value charges for utilization of City equipment and/or vehicles used in support of the event
No Fee-For events open to the general public, sponsored by a non-profit organization that are not for fundraising purposes, where no registration or admission fee is 
charged, no donations or contributions are solicited or where no money exchanges hands.
$100 - For Low Impact events sponsored by a non-profit. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
Page 10.10
PUBLIC WORKS
158 of 282

--- page 159 ---
Page 11.1 
Chapter 3.64 
FEES 
Sections: 
3.64.010 
Fees. 
3.64.020 
Penalties & Interest 
3.64.030 
Fees for Code Enforcement 
3.64.010 - FEES.  
Prior to submittal of the annual budget, the City Manager shall submit to the City Council the fees proposed 
for the next fiscal year. The prior year’s fees shall continue if the City Manager does not submit new 
proposed fees. If the proposed fees do not represent a percentage increase exceeding the percentage 
increase for the preceding twelve (12) month period as shown by the San Francisco Bay Area Consumer 
Price Index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, under the heading All 
Items, or any index substituted by the Department of Labor therefor, the proposed fees shall become 
effective on the following July 1, unless a different date is set forth in the submission, provided however that 
the Council may amend the fees before the effective date. If the proposed fees represent a percentage 
increase exceeding the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index, they must be approved by the 
Council before becoming effective. Notwithstanding the above, the Council may amend any fee at any time. 
(Ord. 1994-12 § 1, 1994; Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989; Ord. 1986-26 § 1, 1986). 
3.64.020 - PENALTIES AND INTEREST.  
Any fee imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable within thirty days after the bill is mailed by the 
City. The fees shall be delinquent if not paid within said thirty days. Any person who fails to remit any fee 
within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the amount due, per month to a maximum of 
three months, plus interest at the rate of 1-1/2 percent per month, or fraction thereof, computed from the 
delinquent date of the fee until and including the date of payment. (Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989). 
3.64.030 - FEES FOR CODE ENFORCEMENT. 
(a)
Nuisances. The Council is authorized to adopt fees for administrative costs incurred in the
enforcement of Title 7. No fee shall be charged if a property owner or agent abates the nuisance or
violation within thirty (30) days after first notification of the violation is mailed by the City.
(b)
Other Violations. The City shall be authorized to adopt fees for costs incurred in the enforcement of
Municipal Code violations which result in a requirement for a planning application or building permit, if such
application is made or permit applied for more than thirty days after notification of the violation is mailed.
(Ord. 1990-5 § 4, 1990; Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989).
159 of 282

--- page 160 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. WWTP PHASE II EXPANSION FEE
Gallon/ADF
$2.34
Developer Impact Fee to pay for the increase of 1.5 Million Gallons a Day of 
treatment capacity for biological demand and solids in the Waste Water 
Treatment Plant. This increase is needed to accommodate the loading from 
future development and connections.
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1.   Residential
a.   Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,003.76
b.   Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,071.42
2.   Commercial and Industrial
a.   Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,605.20
b.   Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,592.98
c.   Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$2,992.33
C. SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE
1.   Single-family dwelling
$5,264.00
2.   Multi-family dwelling, 1 bedroom
$2,632.00
3.   Multi-family dwelling, 2 bedroom
$3,948.00
4.   Multi-family dwelling, 3 bedroom
$5,264.00
5.   Hotels or motels
$2,632.00
6.   Non-residential
$263.00
D.
Per Space
$52,550.00
II.
Each
0.5% of valuation
III.
Per Tree
$740.00
IV.
Per Residential Unit Type:
A.
Single Family
$29,598.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$27,172.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$20,476.00
Mobile Homes
$17,564.00
V. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
Per Sq. Ft.
$1.09
Projects over 10,000 sq. ft. that are one or more of the following:
A. NEW COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF SUPERSTRUCTURE
B. ADDITION OF SQUARE FOOTAGE TO EXISTING COMMERCIAL 
DEVELOPMENT
C. COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRING PLANNING 
APPROVAL
VI. COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council  adopted September 16, 2016 - effective November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 sq. ft.
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and government facilities, 
churches, schools and child care centers.
A. HOTELS
Per Sq. Ft.
$11.35
B. RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$5.68
C. OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, AND MEDICAL 
OFFICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$28.36
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL 
PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, 
SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL 
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family residential projects 
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU 
FEE
Page 12.1
160 of 282

--- page 161 ---
UNIT
FEE
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VII.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$27,352.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$54,704.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$82,056.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$109,408.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$23,737.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$47,473.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$71,210.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$94,947.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$136,760.00
6 Unit Project
$164,112.00
7 Unit Project
$191,464.00
8 Unit Project
$218,816.00
9 Unit Project
$246,168.00
10 Unit Project
$273,520.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$118,683.00
6 Unit Project
$142,420.00
7 Unit Project
$166,156.00
8 Unit Project
$189,893.00
9 Unit Project
$213,630.00
10 Unit Project
$237,366.00
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below Market Rate 
program:
Page 12.2
161 of 282

--- page 162 ---
Proposed 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule
July 1, 2021 - June 30, 2022
162 of 282

--- page 163 ---
Effective July 1, 2020, customers using credit/debit cards to pay for services will be charged a service fee payable to 
the City's merchant service provider at the rate of 2.6%+ in addition to the cost of services. The credit card service fee 
will be reflected as a separate transaction on your credit card statement. As an alternative, checks and money orders 
are acceptable by mail or cash, check, e-check and money orders in person at City facilities.
Public Works…………………………………………………………………............10.1
Penalties & Interest……………………………………………………………...…....11.1
Impact, In-lieu, and Linkage Fees…………………………………………....…...…..12.1
CITY OF SAN MATEO
COMPREHENSIVE FEE SCHEDULE
Table of Contents
Parks & Recreation…………………………………………………………….........…8.1
Police……………………………………………………………………….…….....…9.1
Library……………………………………………………………………………........7.1
City Clerk………………………………………………………………………….....1.1
Community Development
Building…………………...…………..……..…...………………..…....2.1
Code Enforcement………………………………………...………….....3.1
Planning………………...…………..………..…...……………...….…..4.1
Finance…………………………………………...………………………...……....….5.1
Information Technology………………………………………………………….....…6.1
163 of 282

--- page 164 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. ELECTION DOCUMENT COPIES
Per Page
$0.10
II. PHOTOCOPIES
Per Page
$0.15
III. OUTSIDE SERVICES
Reproductions not performed by City (maps, photos, etc.).
Per Reproduction
Actual Costs
IV. CERTIFICATIONS
Each
$1.50
V. APPEALS to the City Council of a decision by the Planning
Commission, Community Relations Commission, or Public
Works Commission.
Each Appeal
$500.00
VI. INITIATIVE FILING FEE
Each
$200.00
CITY CLERK
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 1.1
164 of 282

--- page 165 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
I.
A.
% of Building Permit Fee
70%
B.
% of Building Permit Fee
75%
C.
% of Building Permit Fee
65%
Valuation
$121.20 
Valuation
$121.20 
(for 1st $500) $5.38 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof to and including $2,000
Valuation
$202.00 
(for 1st $2,000) $26.35 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $25,000
Valuation
$808.00 
for 1st $25,000) $21.01 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $50,000
Valuation
$1,333.20 
(for 1st $50,000) $13.74 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $100,000
Valuation
$2,020.00 
(for 1st $100,000) $11.11 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $500,000
Valuation
$6,464.00 
(for 1st $500,000)  $9.37 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $1,000,000
Valuation
$11,150.40 
(for 1st $1,000,000)  $8.70 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $2,000,000
Valuation
$19,582.57 
(for 1st $2,000,000)  $1.34 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof  to and including $4,000,000
Valuation
$22,688.65 
(for 1st $4,000,000)  $2.60 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $8,000,000
Valuation
$33,087.61 
(for 1st $8,000,000)  $2.31 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $16,000,000
Valuation
$51,540.73 
(for 1st $16,000,000)  $1.34 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $32,000,000
Valuation
$72,952.74 
(for 1st $32,000,000)  $2.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $64,000,000
Valuation
$138,226.23 
(for 1st $32,000,000)  $1.02 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
SINGLE FAMILY/DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL PLAN 
REVIEW
COMMERCIAL BUILDING PLAN REVIEW
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 
PLAN REVIEW
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
BUILDING PLAN REVIEW FEES
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,001.00 - $50,000.00
$50,001.00 - $100,000.00
$100,001.00 - $500,000.00
$500,001.00 - $1,000,000
$1,000,001 to $2,000,000 
$2,000,001 to $4,000,000 
$4,000,001 to $8,000,000 
$8,000,001 to $16,000,000 
$16,000,001 to $32,000,000 
$32,000,001 to $64,000,000 
$64,000,001 and Over
Page 2.1
165 of 282

--- page 166 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
A.
Valuation
$262.61 $117.01
Valuation
$262.61 $117.01
(for 1st $500) $12.84 $7.80 for each add'l $100 or 
fraction thereof to and including $2,000
Valuation
$455.21 $234.03
(for 1st $2,000) $22.33 $30.53 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $25,000
Valuation
$968.82 $936.12
(for 1st $25,000) $28.48 $23.41 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $50,000
Valuation
$1,680.83 $1,521.18
(for 1st $50,000) $21.94 $16.38 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $100,000
Valuation
$2,778.05 $2,340.28
(for 1st $100,000) $14.16 $12.19 for each add'l 
$1,000 or fraction thereof to and including $500,000
Valuation
$4,902.48 $7,215.88
(for 1st $250,000 500,000)  $7.75 $10.84 for each 
add'l $1,000 or fraction thereof to and including 
$1,000,000
Valuation
$6,840.11 
(for 1st $500,000)  $6.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$10,318.56 $12,637.54
(for 1st $1,000,000) $3.48 $8.66 for each add'l $1,000 
or fraction thereof to and including $2,000,000
Valuation
$21,296.59 
(for 1st $2,000,000)  $1.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof  to and including $4,000,000
Valuation
$24,338.96 
(for 1st $4,000,000)  $3.05 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $8,000,000
Valuation
$36,508.44 
(for 1st $8,000,000)  $2.54 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $16,000,000
Valuation
$56,868.92 
(for 1st $16,000,000)  $1.08 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $32,000,000
Valuation
$74,140.22 
(for 1st $32,000,000)  $2.32 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof to and including $64,000,000
Valuation
$148,280.45 
(for 1st $32,000,000)  $1.15 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
$4,000,001 to $8,000,000 
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
$8,000,001 to $16,000,000 
$16,000,001 to $32,000,000 
$32,000,001 to $64,000,000 
$64,000,001 and Over
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $250,000.00 $500,000.00
$1,000,000.01 and Over to $2,000,000
$2,000,001 to $4,000,000 
SINGLE FAMILY/DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL 
PERMIT AND INSPECTION
$250,000.01 $500,001.00 - $500,000.00 $1,000,000
Page 2.2
166 of 282

--- page 167 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
B.
Valuation
$262.61 
Valuation
$262.61 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$455.21 
(for 1st $2,000) $30.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,167.23 
(for 1st $25,000) $25.68 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,809.23 
(for 1st $50,000) $29.65 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$3,291.66 
(for 1st $100,000) $8.87 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$6,840.11 
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$12,116.17 
(for 1st $1,00,000)  $1.64 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$18,676.23 
(for 1st $5,000,000) $2.60 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$31,656.34 
(for 1st $10,000,000) $1.39 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$52,480.51 
(for 1st $25,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$78,440.72 
(for 1st $50,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$104,400.93 
(for 1st $75,000,000) $0.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES 
(continued)
$50,000,000.01 - $75,000,000.00
$75,000,000.01 and Over
COMMERCIAL BUILDING PERMIT AND 
INSPECTION
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $500,000.00
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
$1,000,000.01 - $5,000,000.00
$5,000,000.01 - $10,000,000.00
$10,000,000.01 - $25,000,000.00
$25,000,000.01 - $50,000,000.00
Page 2.3
167 of 282

--- page 168 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II.
C.
Valuation
$262.61 
Valuation
$262.61 
(for 1st $500) $12.84 for each add'l $100 or fraction 
thereof
Valuation
$455.21 
(for 1st $2,000) $30.96 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,167.23 
(for 1st $25,000) $25.68 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$1,809.23 
(for 1st $50,000) $29.65 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$3,291.66 
(for 1st $100,000) $8.87 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$6,840.11 
(for 1st $500,000)  $10.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$12,116.17 
(for 1st $1,00,000)  $3.57 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof
Valuation
$26,380.28 
(for 1st $5,000,000) $5.16 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$52,200.46 
(for 1st $10,000,000) $1.73 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$78,160.67 
(for 1st $25,000,000) $1.55 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$116,960.96 
(for 1st $50,000,000) $1.04 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
Valuation
$142,921.17 
(for 1st $75,000,000) $0.52 for each add'l $1,000 or 
fraction thereof 
NOTE: Valuation shall be determined based upon the International Code Council's most recently published Building Valuation Table with a regional 
cost modifier of 2.93. The project valuation will be inclusive of all trades - Building, Electrical, Mechanical, and Plumbing. The Building Official may 
adjust the plan checking/permit fee for an individual project when costs to the City are not congruent with this fee schedule. Building valuation shall be 
established pursuant to Section 23.06.120 of SMMC.
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING 
PERMT AND INSPECTION
$1.00 - $500.00
$501.00 - $2,000.00
$2,001.00 - $25,000.00
$25,000.01 - $50,000.00
$50,000.01 - $100,000.00
$100,000.01 - $500,000.00
$1,000,000.01 - $5,000,000.00
$75,000,000.01 and Over
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00
BUILDING PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES 
(continued)
$5,000,000.01 - $10,000,000.00
$10,000,000.01 - $25,000,000.00
$25,000,000.01 - $50,000,000.00
$50,000,000.01 - $75,000,000.00
Page 2.4
168 of 282

--- page 169 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
III.
A.
1.
Commercial and Multi-Residential
0 -10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
10,001-35,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
35,001-75,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
75,001-120,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
Over 120,000 Square Feet
Per Hour
*See Note Below
2.
Single Family and Duplex Plan Review
0-10,000 Square Feet
Per Occurrence
*See Note Below
B.
Fee
0.34% 0.33% of Valuation
C.
Hourly Rate
Please refer to Building, Fire and Planning Hourly 
Rate
D.
Fee / Actual Cost
Initial plan 100% of Building Plan Check Fee, Fire 
Support and Planning Support Fee; then Actual Cost 
for all City Departments for additional identical and 
mirror image plan checks where applicable uniform 
codes have not changed.
E.
a. Park and Recreation Tax on Residential
Building Permits
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
a. Consultants for specialized plan checking and
inspection services or to expedite plan checking
and inspection services
Fee is per Consultant's rate
b. Reimburse cost of staff or consultant time
spent in plan check or inspection services.  Park
Plan Check and Inspection Services on Building
Permits. Fee to be collected at time of Building
Permit application. After payment of fees,
Permittee may apply for an exemption for
projects having no Park Plan Check or Inspection
Requirements.
Building Valuation on 
Those Building Permits 
Whose Valuation is Over 
$5,000
0.05% 0.07%
F.
Construction Valuation of  
All Projects
0.59% 0.39% of valuation
G.
Fee
 13 mills/$1,000 valuation
Residential (Minimum $0.50)
28 mills/$1,000 valuation
Non-Residential. (Minimum $0.50) 
H.
Fee
 $1/$25,000 valuation 
I.
Percentage
0.15% 0.10% of valuation
J.
All Required Permits
Minimum of 100% of all building permit fees
STATE TAX
Strong motion instrumentation and seismic hazard 
mapping (Fee set by State of California).
BUILDING STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION 
SPECIAL REVOLVING FUND
TECHNOLOGY FEE
CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT A PERMIT
Penalty incurred when any construction is performed 
without a permit.
FIRE PLAN CHECK
*These fees are collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. The current fee charged may be higher than those listed. Please see
the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo
Consolidated Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
PLANNING SUPPORT FEE (PLAN 
CHECK/INSPECTION)
(Fee covers initial review and 2 resubmittals)  The fee 
will be charged for all projects which require a 
planning application, for new single-family homes 
and duplexes, and for any other permit application 
that requires review by the Planning  Division.
ADDITIONAL PLAN REVIEW FEES FOR 
PROJECTS REVIEWED 4TH REVIEW AND 
BEYOND
PLAN CHECK FEES FOR IDENTICAL AND 
MIRROR IMAGE PLANS
PARKS AND RECREATION FEES
1. Park and Landscape Resources
2. Development Project Review Fee
GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE FEE
ADDITIONAL REQUIRED PLAN REVIEW & 
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
Page 2.5
169 of 282

--- page 170 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
A.
Per Hr (Min. 2 Hours)
$257.00 $156.00
B.
Per Hr (Min. 1 Hour)
$257.00 $156.00
C.
Per Hr
(Min. 1/2 Hour)
$268.00 $156.00
D.
Per Reactivation
$160.00 $358.00
E.
Per Hour Hourly Rate
$222.00 $169.00
F.
Each Page
$0.15 
G.
Each Page
$0.30 
H.
Per Hour
$161.00 
F.
Each
$586.00 $637.00
G.
Each
$825.00 $637.00
H.
$198.00 $72.00
I.
1. Single Family Dwellings/Duplex's
Each
$490.00 $382.00
2. Multi-Family, Mixed Use/Commercial
Each
Valuation Based
0-5,000 Sq Ft
Each
$490.00 
Over 5,000 Sq Ft
Each
$875.00 
J.
1. Bathroom or Kitchen Remodels - Per Remodel
consisting of 4 plumbing fixtures maximum
Each Combination Permit
$654.00 $539.00
2. Kitchen remodels consisting of a maximum of:
1 plumbing fixture or 20 electrical
lights/switches/outlets maximum or a maximum
of 2 gas-fired appliances.
Each Combination Permit
$539.00 
K.
Each
$391.00 $153.00
L.
Each
$584.00 $333.00
M.
Each
$228.00 
M.
Each
$589.00 $410.00
N.
Each
$461.00 $333.00
O.
Each
$307.00 
O.
Each
$2,734.00 
Each
$2,573.50 
Each
$1,846.00 
P.
Each
$1,321.50 $1,237.00
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 
more than 5)
REPIPE FOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS FOR 
SFR AND DUPLEX
CALIFORNIA'S EARTHQUAKE BRACE AND 
BOLT EARTHQUAKE RETROFIT PROGRAM
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
ELECTRICAL REWIRING FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
APPLICATION FOR DEMOLITION OF 
RESIDENTIAL UNITS WHICH HAVE BEEN 
DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE OR WHICH 
ARE BEING DEMOLISHED ON APPROVAL OF 
THE BUILDING OFFICIAL UNDER SECTION 
23.06.100.
RESEARCH RE: APPLICATION FOR 
ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND CODE 
INTERPRETATIONS REQUIRING 
CONSULTATION WITH OUTSIDE AGENCIES
PERMITS FOR SMALL ANIMAL & FOWL
RE-ROOF'S
COST OF BLACK AND WHITE COPIES
COST OF COLOR COPIES
BUILDING/PROPERTY RESEARCH AND 
INQUIRY FEE (1st hour is free)
HARDSHIP WAIVER FOR DISABLED ACCESS 
REQUIREMENTS
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS FOR SINGLE 
FAMILY AND DUPLEX (same location, same size, 
5 maximum)
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and 
mechanical permits.
INSPECTIONS OUTSIDE OF NORMAL BUINESS 
HOURS 
REINSPECTION FEE
PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED BY CHANGES, 
ADDITIONS OR REVISIONS TO APPROVED 
PLANS, OR MORE THAN TWO RECHECKS
REACTIVIATION FEE FOR EXPIRED PERMITS 
(Use 50% of original permit fee if permit fee is less 
than the reactivation fee)
COMBINATION BUILDING, PLUMBING, 
ELECTRICAL, AND MECHANICAL PERMITS 
FOR MINOR RESIDENTIAL REMODELS:
New Construction
Remodel
Page 2.6
170 of 282

--- page 171 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IV.
R.
Each
$151.00 
Q.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 50 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
51 kW to 250 kW
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kW up to 250 kW
251 kW and up
Each
$2,400.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kW over 250 kW
R.
1. Single Family Dwellings
Each Combination Permit
$450.00 
2. Multi-family Buildings
Up to 15 kW 
Each
$450.00 
16 kW and up
Each
$450.00 
+ $15.00 for each additional kW
3. Commercial Buildings
Up to 30 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
31 kWth to 260 kWth
Each
$1,000.00 
+ $7.00 for each additional kWth up to 260 kWth
261 kWth and up
Each
$2,610.00 
+ $5.00 for each additional kWth over 260 kWth
S.
1. Single Family Dwellings & Duplexes
Each
$194.00 $190.00
2. Multi-Family/Commercial (Level I/II)
1-6 3 Stations
Each
$546.00$465.00
4-6 Stations
Each
$622.00 
7+ Stations
Each
$1,027.00 $899.00
Multi-Family/Commercial (Level III)
1-6 3 Stations
Each
$892.00 $581.00
4-6 Stations
Each
$778.00 
7+ Stations
Each
$1,331.00 $1,373.00
T.
Each
$438.00 
ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (Fee set by
State of California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS (Fee set by State of 
California AB-1414; sunsets 1/1/2025)
ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS
TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (Replacement, 
Relocations and new Installations for SFR and 
Duplex)
MISC. INSPECTIONS AND FEES (continued)
Applicable to building, plumbing, electrical and 
mechanical permits.
Page 2.7
171 of 282

--- page 172 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$263.00 
B.
COMMERCIAL ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$1,132.00 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.22 
D.
Each
$840.00 
A.
MINIMUM ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$151.00 
B.
PERMIT ISSUANCE
Each
$72.00 
C.
SYSTEM FEE SCHEDULE
1. Private Swimming Pools
For new private, residential, in- ground, 
swimming pools for single- family & multi-
family occupancies including a complete system 
of necessary branch circuit wiring, bonding, 
grounding, underwater lighting, water pumping, 
& other similar electrical equipment directly 
related to the operation of a swimming pool.
For other types of swimming pools, therapeutic 
whirlpools, spas & alterations to existing 
swimming pools, use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
Each
$234.00 
2. Temporary Power Service
For a temporary service power pole or pedestal
including all pole or pedestal-mounted receptacle 
outlets & appurtenances.
For a temporary distribution system & temporary 
lighting & receptacle outlets for construction 
sites, decorative light, Christmas tree sales lots, 
firework stands, etc.
Each
$78.00 
D.
Sq Ft.
$0.10 
E.
The following do not include permit issuing fee.
1. Receptacle, Switch and Lighting Outlets1
For receptacle, switch, lighting or other outlets at
which current is used or controlled, except 
services, feeders and meters.
First 20
Each
$78.00 
Add'l outlets
Each
$2.00 
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
Use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE when fixture count 
is 20 or less. Otherwise, use square footage to 
calculate permit fees.
UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
ELECTRICAL WORK ONLY
ELECTRICAL REWIRING FOR SFR AND 
DUPLEX
1  NOTE:  For multi-outlet assemblies, each 5 feet or fraction thereof may be considered as one outlet.
Page 2.8
172 of 282

--- page 173 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES (continued)
2. Lighting Fixtures
For lighting fixtures, sockets or other lamp-
holding devices.
First 20 
Each
$78.00 
Add'l fixtures
Each
$2.00 
For pole or platform-mounted lighting fixtures.
Each
$39.00 
For theatrical-type lighting fixtures or assemblies.
Each
$39.00 
3. Residential Appliances2 
Each
$118.00 
For fixed residential appliances or receptacle
outlets for same, including wall-mounted electric 
ovens; counter-mounted cooking tops; electric 
ranges, self-contained room, console, or through-
wall air- conditioners; space heaters; food waste 
grinders; dish-washers; washing machines; water 
heaters; clothes dryers; or other motor operated 
appliances not exceeding one horsepower (HP) in 
rating.
4. Nonresidential Appliances2
Each
$157.00 
For nonresidential appliances and self-contained
factory-wired, nonresidential appliances not 
exceeding one horsepower (HP), kilowatt (kW), 
or kilovolt-ampere (KA), in rating including 
medical and dental devices; food, beverage, and 
ice cream cabinets; illuminated show cases; 
drinking fountains; vending machines; laundry 
machines; or other similar types of equipment.
5. Power Apparatus3
For motors, generators, transformers, rectifiers,
synchronous converters, capacitors, industrial 
heating, air conditioners and heat pumps, cooking 
or baking equipment and other apparatus, as 
follows: Rating in horsepower (HP), kilowatts 
(kW), kilovolt- amperes (KA), or kilovolt-
amperes- reactive (KVAR):
Up to and including 1
Each
$78.00 
2 - 10
Each
$91.00 
11 - 50
Each
$185.00 
51 -100
Each
$139.00 
101 and Over
Each
$292.00 
6.
Busways4
100 Ft. or Fraction Thereof
$75.00 
For trolley and plug-in type busways
3 NOTE: A) For equipment or appliances having more than one more, transformer, heater, etc., the sum of the combined ratings may be used.
B) These fees include all switches, circuit breakers, contactors, thermostats, relays and other directly related control equipment.
4 NOTE: An add'l fee will be required for lighting fixtures, motors and other appliances that are connected to trolley & plug-in type busways.
No fee is required for portable tools.
2  NOTE:  For other types of air conditioners and other motor-driven appliances having larger electrical ratings, see Power Apparatus.
Page 2.9
173 of 282

--- page 174 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
V.
ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES (continued)
7. Signs, Outline Lighting & Marquees5
For signs, outline lighting systems or marquees
supplied from one branch circuit.
Each
$78.00 
For add'l branch circuits within the same sign, 
outline lighting system or marquee.
Each
$13.00 
8. Services5
For services of 600 volts or less & not over 200
amperes in rating.
Each
$78.00 
For services of 600 volts or less & over 200 - 
1000 amperes in rating.
Each
$237.00 
For services over 600 volts or over 1000 amperes 
in rating.
Each
$275.00 
9. Miscellaneous Apparatus, Conduits, Conductors
& Circuits5
For electrical apparatus, conduits, conductors, & 
circuits for which a permit is required but for 
which no fee is herein set forth.
Each
$118.00 
5  NOTE: This fee is not applicable when a fee is paid for one or more services, outlets, fixtures, appliances, power apparatus, busways, signs or other 
equipment.
Page 2.10
174 of 282

--- page 175 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VI. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$263.00 
B.
COMMERCIAL MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$875.00 
A.
MINIMUM MECHANICAL PERMIT FEE
Each
$151.00 
B.
PERMIT ISSUANCE
1. For the issuance of permit
$72.00 
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.22 $0.10
D.
Each
$362.00 
E.
Each
$753.00 
D.
UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
1. For the installation or relocation of each forced-
air or gravity type furnace or burner, including 
ducts & vents attached to such appliances, up to 
& including 100,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$78.00 
2. For the installation or relocation of each forced-
air or gravity type furnace or burner, including 
ducts & vents attached to such appliance over 
100,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$198.00 
3. For the installation or relocation of each floor 
furnace, including vent.
 Each 
$78.00 
4. For the installation or relocation of each 
suspended heater, recessed wall heater or floor 
mounted unit heater.
 Each 
$159.00 
5. For the installation, relocation or replacement of 
each appliance vent installed & not inc'd in an 
appliance permit.
 Each 
$78.00 
6. For the repair of, alteration of, or addition to each 
heating appliance, refrigeration unit, cooling unit, 
absorption unit or each heating, cooling, 
absorption, or evaporative cooling system, 
including installation of controls regulated by this 
code.
 Each 
$78.00 
7. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or 
compressor to and including three h.p., or each 
absorption system to and including 100,000 
Btu/h.
 Each 
$78.00 
8. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or 
compressor over three h.p. to & including 15 h.p., 
or each absorption system over 100,000 Btu/h & 
including 500,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$172.00 
9. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or 
compressor over 15 h.p. to & including 30 h.p., 
or each absorption system over 500,000 Btu/h to 
and including 1,000,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$225.00 
10. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or 
compressor over 30 h.p. to and including 50 h.p., 
or for each absorption system over 1,000,000 
Btu/h to and including 1,750,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$278.00 
11. For the installation or relocation of each boiler or 
refrigeration compressor over 50 h.p., or each 
absorption system over 1,750,000 Btu/h.
 Each 
$358.00 
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (REPLACEMENT AT 
SAME LOCATION FOR SFR AND DUPLEX)
HVAC INSTALLATIONS (RELOCATIONS AND 
NEW INSTALLATIONS FOR SFR AND DUPLEX)
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS: 
MECHANICAL WORK ONLY
Use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE when fixture count 
is 3 or less. Otherwise, use square footage to calculate 
permit fees
Page 2.11
175 of 282

--- page 176 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VI. MECHANICAL PERMIT FEES (continued)
12. For each air-handling unit to and including
10,000 cubic feet per minute, including ducts 
attached thereto. NOTE: This fee shall not apply 
to an air-handling unit which is a portion of a 
factory-assembled appliance, cooking unit, 
evaporative cooler or absorption unit for which a 
permit is required elsewhere in this code.
 Each 
$240.00 
13. For each air-handling unit over 10,000 cfm.
 Each 
$319.00 
14. For each evaporative cooler other than portable
type.
 Each 
$78.00 
15. For each ventilation fan connected to a single
duct.
 Each 
$78.00 
16. For each ventilation system which is not a portion
of any heating or air condition system authorized 
by a permit.
 Each 
$78.00 
17. For the installation of each hood which is served
by mechanical exhaust, including the ducts for 
such hood.
 Each 
$80.00 
18. For the installation or relocation of each domestic-
type incinerator.
 Each 
$39.00 
19. For the installation or relocation of each
commercial or industrial type incinerator.
 Each 
$159.00 
20. For each appliance or piece of equipment
regulated by this code but not classed in other 
appliance categories, or for which no other fee is 
listed in this code.
 Each 
$118.00 
VII. PLUMBING PERMIT FEES
A.
RESIDENTIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
 Each 
$263.00 
B.
COMMERCIAL PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
 Each 
$875.00 
A.
MINIMUM PLUMBING PERMIT FEE
$151.00 
B.
PERMIT ISSUANCE
 Each 
$72.00 
1. For the issuance of permit
C.
Sq Ft.
$0.22 $0.10
D.
TANKLESS WATER HEATER
 Each 
$461.00 
E.
 Each 
$840.00 
D.
UNIT FEE SCHEDULE
1. For each plumbing fixture or trap or set of
fixtures on one trap (including water, drainage 
piping and backflow protection).
 Each 
$78.00 
2. For each building sewer
 Each 
$78.00 
3. Rain water systems - per drain (inside building).
 Each 
$78.00 
4. For each water heater and/or vent.
 Each 
$78.00 
5. Tankless Water Heater
 Each 
$308.00 
6. For each industrial waste pretreatment interceptor
including its trap and vent, excepting kitchen- 
type grease interceptors functioning as fixture 
traps.
 Each 
$78.00 
7. For installation, alteration or repair of water
piping and/or water treating equipment.
 Each 
$78.00 
8. For repair or alteration of drainage or vent piping.
 Each Fixture 
$78.00 
9. For each lawn sprinkler system on any one meter,
including backflow protection devices.
 Each System 
$78.00 
REPIPE FOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS FOR 
SFR AND DUPLEX
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS:
PLUMBING WORK ONLY
Use the UNIT FEE SCHEDULE when fixture count
is 3 or less. Otherwise, use square footage to calculate 
permit fees
Page 2.12
176 of 282

--- page 177 ---
UNIT 
 FEE 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
BUILDING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VII. PLUMBING PERMIT FEES (continued)
10. For atmospheric-type vacuum breakers not
included in Item 2:
$78.00 
1 to 5
 Each 
$78.00 
over 5
 Each 
$78.00 
11. For each backflow protective device other than
atmospheric-type vacuum breakers
2 inches & smaller 
 Each 
$78.00 
over 2 inches
 Each 
$78.00 
12. For each gas piping system
1-4 Outlets
$78.00 
13. For each gas piping system of five or more outlets
 Per Outlet 
$3.00 
VIII. SIGN PERMIT FEES**
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$4.85 
 Minimum 
$38.80 
 Maximum 
$455.90 
Permit fee determined by Commercial Valuation 
Table
 Each 
$198.00 $78.00
IX. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$1.09 $1.08
A.
B.
C.
X.
A.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$11.35 $10.79
B.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$5.68 $5.40
C.
 Per Sq. Ft. 
$28.36 $26.99
XI.
 Each 
0.5% of valuation
RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, 
AND MEDICAL OFFICES
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family 
residential projects exceeding three (3) million dollars in 
building permit valuation.
Projects over 10,000 sq. ft. that are one or more of the
following:
NEW COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF 
SUPERSTRUCTURE
ADDITION OF SQUARE FOOTAGE TO 
EXISTING COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS 
REQUIRING PLANNING APPROVAL
COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council adopted September 16, 2016 - effective 
November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and 
government facilities, churches, schools and child care 
All permanent signs
Temporary Banner (30-day)
**PENALTY: When a sign permit is required and a sign is installed prior to obtaining a permit, a double fee shall be charged.
HOTELS
Page 2.13
177 of 282

--- page 178 ---
UNIT
I.
1.
First Citation
$100.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
II.
First Citation
$200.00
If not Abated, Second Citation
$300.00
If not Abated, Third Citation
$500.00
III.
Each Case
Actual Cost *
IV.
Each Appeal
$500.00
V.
Each Inspection
$100.00
ABATEMENT ORDER VIOLATION CORRECTION RE-INSPECTION
FEE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CODE ENFORCEMENT
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
 FEE 
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC 
WHICH ARE SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PER 
SMMC 1.10.
Violations of the SMMC Administrative Citation Ordinance which have 
been abated within 10 days of service and verified by the Code 
Enforcement Division have a reduced fee.
NUISANCE ABATEMENT FEES FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE SAME 
SMMC SECTION WITHIN 12 MONTHS OF INITIAL CITATION
VIOLATIONS OF THE SMMC REQUIRING 1) ORDER OF 
ABATEMENT, 2) AN INSPECTION OF SEIZURE WARRANT, 3) A 
POSTING OF AN ORDER DESIGNATING THE PROPERTY AS 
UNSAGE TO OCCUPY, 4) THE COMMENCEMENT OF THE CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS OR 5) SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF 
*Actual Cost includes all costs of abatement, including, but not limited to: code
enforcement staff, and associated indirect costs, such as labor, equipment, private
contractor, materials, materials storage, and all other costs reasonable and
necessary to abate the nuisance.
APPEAL OF A DECISION OR ORDER TO ABATE
Page 3.1
178 of 282

--- page 179 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
I.
PLANNING APPLICATIONS
A. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
DECISION (SINGLE FAMILY ONLY OR CERTIFICATE OF
PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY - ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES)
Initial Deposit
$4,000.00
B. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
DECISION (OTHER THAN SINGLE FAMILY OR PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$6,000.00
C. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION
DECISION - IF NO PRE-APPLICATION REQUIRED
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION
DECISION - IF PRE-APPLICATION REQUIRED
Initial Deposit
$50,000.00
E. PLANNING APPLICATION(S)- PLANNING COMMISSION &
CITY COUNCIL DECISION
Initial Deposit
$100,000.00 $20,000.00
F. FENCE EXCEPTION SPAR PLANNING APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$2,000.00
G. SPECIAL USE PERMIT - DAY CARE FACILITIES
Flat fee
$2,000.00
H. ANNUAL REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
Initial Deposit
$4,500.00 $4,000.00
I.
DESIGN REVIEW BY CONSULTING ARCHITECT (required for
projects with 6+ units, 10,000+ SF non-residential; or other projects
as determined by City Resolution)
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
J.
LARGE PROJECT PRE-APPLICATION
Initial Deposit
$25,000.00 $15,000.00
K. INFORMATIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING (PRE-
APPLICATION) PUBLIC NOTICE LIST PREPARATION
Flat Fee
$479.00 $300.00
L. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION
Initial Deposit
$3,000.00
M. MODIFICATIONS OF APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATIONS-
PLANNING COMMISSION DECISION
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
II.
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCE (CEQA) PROCESSING
A. CATEGORICAL OR STATUTORY EXEMPTION (Excluding
Single Family and PCNs)
Initial Deposit
$500.00
B. INITIAL STUDY/NEGATIVE DECLARATION
Initial Deposit
$5,000.00
C. INITIAL STUDY/EIR
Initial Deposit
$10,000.00
D. MANDATED FEDERAL, STATE OR COUNTY FEES (e.g., Fish
& Game CEQA Fee; Fish & Game Code §711.4; Negative
Declaration; EIR)
As Mandated by State
N/A
III. CITY STAFF TIME
Planning Staff
Hourly Rate
$275.00
All City departments reviewing a planning application.
Hourly Rate
Actual Cost $167.00
IV. MONITORING OF REQUIRED MITIGATION MEASURE
Initial Deposit for 
Determined for each project.
V.
INVESTIGATION
FEE for properties with code violations before or after planning 
approval.
Hourly Rate
$275.00 $167.00
VI. RESEARCH FEE
A. RETRIEVAL OF OFF-SITE PLANNING APPLICATION
Flat Fee
$170.00 $53.00
B. RESEARCH REQUIRING EXTENSIVE STAFF TIME
Hourly Rate
$275.00 Job Cost Staff hourly rate
C. POST PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECT CONSULTATION
Hourly Rate
$275.00 Job Cost Staff hourly rate
VII. APPEALS
A. APPEAL FEE - ALL PLANNING APPLICATIONS
Flat Fee
$500.00
VIII. LANDSCAPE UNIT IN-LIEU FEES
Per Landscape Unit
$324.53 $321.00
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 4.1
179 of 282

--- page 180 ---
CHARGE TYPE
FEE OR INITIAL DEPOSIT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING DIVISION
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
IX. SUBORDINATION PROCESSING FEE
Applies to requests to allow City Housing Program loans to 
subordinate to new mortgage lenders in conjunction with refinances.
Per Loan
$250.00
X.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$27,352.00  $25,962.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$54,704.00 $51,924.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$82,056.00 $77,887.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$109,408.00 $103,849.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$23,737.00 $22,478.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$47,473.00 $44,956.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$71,210.00 $67,434.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$94,947.00 $89,912.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$136,760.00 $129,811.00
6 Unit Project
$164,112.00 $155,773.00
7 Unit Project
$191,464.00 $181,735.00
8 Unit Project
$218,816.00 $207,698.00
9 Unit Project
$246,168.00 $233,660.00
10 Unit Project
$273,520.00 $259,622.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$118,683.00 $112,390.00
6 Unit Project
$142,420.00 $134,868.00
7 Unit Project
$166,156.00 $157,346.00
8 Unit Project
$189,893.00 $179,824.00
9 Unit Project
$213,630.00 $202,302.00
10 Unit Project
$237,366.00 $224,780.00
XI. POLICIES RE: PLANNING FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
The cost for staff time expended by all city staff pursuant to a planning application shall be billed to the project account at the 
hourly rate in section III.
The applicant shall pay the actual cost of any consultant services required to process a planning application including the 
environmental (CEQA) clearance processing.
"Planning applications" include: site plan and architectural review; special use permit; temporary use permit; variance; site 
development permit; subdivision and parcel maps; reclassification; planned development; general plan amendment; specific plan 
amendment; code amendments regarding land use regulation; development agreements, downtown economic development permit;  
planned signing districts and freestanding signs over 8 feet in commercial districts, single family dwelling design review (SFDDR), 
mills act contract, historic building survey amendment,  historic building demolition permit and other planning applications as set 
forth in Chapter 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below 
Market Rate program:
If the cost of the staff time spent on the application(s) is less than the amount of the deposit, the balance shall be refunded to the 
applicant.
If at any time before action is taken on an application, more than 70% of the deposit has been expended on the application, the 
applicant shall be required to pay an additional deposit.
No public hearing on a planning application shall be held unless all deposits requested have been fully paid. No application by an 
applicant shall be accepted as complete pursuant to title 27 of the San Mateo Municipal Code if that applicant has failed to pay 
amounts due and payable for another planning application.
The applicant is responsible for paying the costs of staff and consultant time incurred pursuant to any appeal.
Under extenuating circumstances, the Community Development Director has the authority to set a deposit amount below the 
amount indicated in the fee schedule.
Page 4.2
180 of 282

--- page 181 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. BUSINESS LICENSE LISTING
Each Qtr.
$32.00
II. RETURNED CHECK PROCESSING CHARGE
(Non-sufficient fund checks and other issues)
Each
$25.00
III. STATE MANDATED DISABILITY ACCESS FEE (SB 1186)
On each Business Tax application and renewal
Each
$4.00
IV. NEW BUSINESS - FIRE INSPECTION
Each
See Note Below* 
V. COLLECTION REFERRAL CHARGE
Each
$25.00
FINANCE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
*This fee is collected on behalf of the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department. Please see the San Mateo Consolidated Fire
Department's fee schedule for current fees that will be collected by the City of San Mateo on behalf of San Mateo Consolidated
Fire Department at: smcfire.org/i-want-to
Page 5.1
181 of 282

--- page 182 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. GIS SERVICES
Hour
$91.00 $90.00
Additional Time (Hourly)
$91.00 $90.00
B. HARDCOPY PLOTS OF CITY MAPS
Each
$16.75 $16.50
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
GIS MAPPING / ELECTRONIC DATA FEES
Page 6.1
182 of 282

--- page 183 ---
UNIT
FEE
I. FINES
A. OVERDUE MATERIAL
1. Adult  Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.25
2. Juvenile Materials
Per Day & Per Item
$0.15
**No overdue fines for borrowers ages 19 & under
3. Technology Lending Devices
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
a. Cleaning Fee for Devices
Per Item
$10.00
B. OVERDUE MAXIMUM FINE
1. Adult
Per Item
$8.00
2. Juvenile
Per Item
$4.00
C. LINK + SERVICE
1. Overdue materials
Per Day & Per Item
$1.00
2. Overdue maximum fine
Per Item
$15.00
3. Replacement charges
Per Item
$115.00
II. FEES
A.
Per Item
Price of material
+ processing fee of $5.00
B. COPY CHARGES
1. Photocopy machine
a. Black/white copies
Per Copy
$0.15
2. Computer printer copy
a. Black/white copies
Per Page After 3 Pages
$0.15
b. Microform reader-printer
Per Copy
$0.15
c. Color computer printer copy
Per Copy
$0.30
C. COMMUNITY MEETING ROOMS, MAIN LIBRARY
1. Oak Room and courtyard
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$190.00 $185.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $30 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$155.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$120.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$250.00 $245.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$280.00 $275.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$280.00 $275.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$370.00 $365.00
g. Music recitals
Per Use (Up to 3 Hours)
$140.00
h. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$350.00
2. Laurel and Cedar Rooms
a. Non profit/not for profit (business hours)
$105.00 $100.00 for 1st 4 hours
+ $15 each additional hour
b. Non profit/not for profit (after hours)
Per Hour
$90.00
c. Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$90.00
Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
d. Non-Resident (business hours)
Per Hour
$120.00
Non-Resident (after hours)
Per Hour
$215.00
e. San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$185.00
San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$280.00 $275.00
f. Non San Mateo Business (business hours)
Per Hour
$280.00 $275.00
Non San Mateo Business (after hours)
Per Hour
$370.00 $365.00
g. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$255.00 $250.00
REPLACEMENT CHARGE FOR EACH ITEM LOST OR 
DAMAGED
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 7.1
183 of 282

--- page 184 ---
UNIT
FEE
LIBRARY
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
II. FEES (continued)
3. Library computer training room
a. Non profit/not for profit Use of:
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$145.00 $140.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$190.00 $185.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$245.00 $235.00 per every 4 hrs
b. Resident or Non-Resident Use of:
1 -10 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$195.00 $190.00 per every 4 hrs
11 - 20 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$255.00 $250.00 per every 4 hrs
21 – 26 computers
4 Hours (Minimum)
$330.00 $320.00 per every 4 hrs
c. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
$500.00
d. A/V Technician Use of:
1 - 10 computers
Per Use
$35.00
11 - 20 computers
Per Use
$75.00
21 – 26 computers
Per Use
$110.00
4. Library – Other Areas
a. Other Library areas – fees to be determined on a case-by-case
basis by City Librarian or designee
Per Hour/Per Area
Up to $375.00 $365.00
b. Security/damage deposit
Per Use
Up to $500.00
5. Miscellaneous Meeting Room Fees
a. A/V Technician
Per Use
$35.00
A/V Technician – special projects
Per Hour
$55.00
b. Portable Stage rental:
Single stage (8’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$155.00
Double stage (16’x6’x16”)
Per Use
$215.00
c. Conference Phone rental
Per Use
$35.00
d. Piano tuning (special request)
Each
$200.00
D. COMPUTER FILES STORAGE DEVICES
1. USB flash drive
Each
$15.00
E. MATERIAL RECOVERY FEE
Per Account
$10.00
F. LIBRARY LOGO TOTE BAGS
Each
$25.00
G. PASSPORT PROCESSING SERVICES
1. Adult Passport Book & Card
Each
$175.00
2. Adult Passport Book
Each
$145.00
3. Adult Passport Card
Each
$65.00
4. Minor Passport Book & Card
Each
$130.00
5. Minor Passport Book
Each
$115.00
6. Minor Passport Card
Each
$50.00
7. Expedite Fee Per Passport
Each
$60.00
8. Express Service to Processing Center
a. USPS Express Mail (up to 8 oz.)
Per Mailing Unit
Current postal rate
H.
1. One-time use fee per digital file for any medium
a. Personal/non profit use
Each
$20.00
b. For profit/commercial use
Each
$40.00
III. RESEARCH SERVICE
A. OBITUARY SEARCH SERVICE
Each
$20.00
Search for Non-San
Mateo County residents
USE FEES FOR PHOTOGRAPHS FROM DIGITAL ARCHIVES 
Page 7.2
184 of 282

--- page 185 ---









PARKS AND RECREATION
RECREATION COST RECOVERY AND PRICING POLICY*
The following shall serve as the policy guidance for establishing a Recreation Activities Cost Recovery Plan, developing annual activity budgets, and 
establishing fees to be charged for recreation activities. The specific elements of this policy are that:
The Park and Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Model shall be used.
In recognition of the wide variety of service values and revenue generating potentials of various activities, specific cost recovery thresholds shall 
be established for each recreation activity area at the most specific programming level that is administratively practical.
The thresholds shall include both minimum and target levels of cost recovery.
Strategies for achieving the minimum and target thresholds shall be established by staff for each activity area. These strategies may include 
immediate or gradual action depending upon the best interests of maintaining a strong program, achieving the target within a reasonable time 
period and current fiscal conditions.
Activity areas unable to meet their minimum threshold after these strategies have been applied shall be reviewed by the Park and Recreation 
Commission for consideration of recommending appropriate action: reduce costs; reduce cost recovery target; eliminate activity.
Activities that have achieved or exceeded their target threshold shall be evaluated to determine if the target can/should be increased.
 The Cost Recovery Plan shall, where appropriate, also include specific other fee considerations (e.g. benchmarking to a specific competitor) 
that may supersede cost recovery target considerations.
Once a Cost Recovery Plan is established, and within that context, staff shall have the authority to set and adjust fees, except that no fee 
increase shall exceed 20% within a 1-year period without the review of the Park and Recreation Commission and approval of the City Council.
As part of the budgetary process, the Park and Recreation Commission shall review the Cost Recovery Plan and the performance of each 
activity compared to the plan and make any recommendations for changes to the plan.
Page 8.1
185 of 282

--- page 186 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Operating Indirect Overhead (Op IOH): Division level and shared costs, such as departmental management, brochure, printing, 
photocopying, training, accounting support, technology, credit card discount costs, administrative office clerical support, 
computer, and recreation equipment sinking fund charges
Facility Indirect Overhead (Fac IOH): Calculated charges for the Public Works Building Maintenance for on-going 
maintenance and repairs (e.g. plumbing, electrical, mechanical, carpentry, painting).
Recreation Cost Tier Definitions
Direct: The specific “go-away” costs at the course or activity level. These include leaders, instructors and materials or services 
(e.g. transportation) specific to the course or activity.
Program Direct Overhead (DOH): Direct supervision of the program, and minor miscellaneous items such as supervisor 
mileage.
Facility Overhead (FOH): The combination of facility direct costs (the day-to-day costs to keep the building open- receptionist, 
custodial services, custodial products, utilities) and facility direct overhead (primarily facility supervision).
Page 8.2
186 of 282

--- page 187 ---
MINIMUM
Direct
Direct
75% Direct
Direct
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
MINIMUM
Direct
50% of Direct
100% Subsidy
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Direct
Swimming Lessons
King Center Teen Programs
King Center Drop-In
Senior Services Link
Group 2- Composed of core programs for youth and seniors, with service values as higher consideration. Typical thresholds 
ACTIVITY
Children's Services Center Based 
King Center Children's Programs
Youth Art
Youth Gymnastics
Teen Dances
Senior Center Programs
Senior Center Special Events
Children's Services Special 
Youth Dance/Dance Shows
PARKS AND RECREATION
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS
Group 1- Highest service value consideration- composed of core youth programs. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- From 
100% subsidy to direct cost recovery. Target- From 100% subsidy through Direct Overhead (DOH).
Recreation Swim
Building Blocks
Summer Flex Camps
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Benchmark fees to bottom end of Peninsula cities
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities
ACTIVITY
TARGET
Through FOH
Through DOH
Direct
Through DOH
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
100% Subsidy
Benchmark fees to mid-point of Peninsula cities.
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Direct +20%
Direct
100% Subsidy
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct
Direct
Through DOH
Page 8.3
187 of 282

--- page 188 ---
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Direct + additional 
required office staffing
Through DOH
67% of food costs
MINIMUM
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
Through DOH
NOTE:
*
Fees established through the Recreation Cost Recovery and Pricing Policy shall be collected at the time of course registration, with 
certain exceptions. Prior to completion of a course, patrons may withdraw from a course and receive a refund. Refunds may be 
returned immediately or left on account with the Recreation Division for two years. After two years, all credits left on account by 
patrons that have not participated in Division activities for two years or more are donated to the Recreation Fee Assistance 
Program.
Does not include special non-general fund revenues or expenses from grants, trust, etc.
Youth Sports Camps
Miscellaneous Athletic Activities
Beresford Kids Club
Through FOH
Through FOH
PARKS AND RECREATION
RECREATION PROGRAMS COST RECOVERY PLAN - TABLE OF TARGETS (continued)
Group 3- Composed primarily of adult core, and youth additional typical programs, in which both service and cost recovery 
values are of strong consideration. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- Through 
Facility Overhead (FOH)
ACTIVITY
Youth Music/Drama
Through FOH
Benchmark fees to San Mateo Foster City School 
Through FOH
Martial Arts
Through Operating 
Indirect Overhead
Adult Music/Drama
Adult Dance
Senior Lunch
Specialized Aquatics Programs
Adult Swimfit
Tennis
Adult Sports Leagues
Adult Arts and Crafts
Benchmark fees to less than top of market.
Fees less than top of market.
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
TARGET
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Adult Fitness
Youth Fitness
Golf Lessons
Ice Skating
Youth Leisure Education
Adults Leisure Education
Full Cost Recovery
Through FOH
Through FOH
Group 4- Composed primarily of specialty activities, with cost recovery considerations of highest consideration among the 4 
groups. Typical thresholds ranges: Minimum- Through Direct Overhead (DOH). Target- range of from through Facility 
Overhead (FOH) to full recovery.
ACTIVITY
TARGET
OTHER FEE CONSIDERATIONS
Through Operating 
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Through FOH
Direct
Page 8.4
188 of 282

--- page 189 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
 UNIT 
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/21 0
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/22 1
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES
A.
Beresford
Shelter
Per Use
$180.00
$200.00
Area #1
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area #2
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area #3
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Bocce Court Tables
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Central
Entire Area 
Per Use
$425.00
$425.00
Area 1
Per Use
$180.00
$180.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Area 3
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Area 4 
Per Use
$65.00
$85.00
Harborview Park
Per Use
$65.00
$85.00
Indian Springs Park
Per Use
$65.00
$85.00
Joinville
Entire facility
Per Use
$205.00
$205.00
Area 1
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area 2
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Area 3
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
King
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Lakeshore 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Laurelwood 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Los Prados 
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Paddock Park
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Parkside Aquatic
Per Use
$65.00
$65.00
Ryder Park
Area 1
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Area 2
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Entire Facility 
Per Use
$180.00
$200.00
Shoreview
Per Use
$85.00
$85.00
Alcohol Fee 
Per Use
$50.00
$50.00
Jumper Fee
Per Use
$25.00
$25.00
Picnic Use/Cleanup Deposit 
Beresford Shelter
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Central Park – entire area 
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Bayside/Joinville – entire area 
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Ryder – entire area
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
All other areas
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
B. SPECIAL PARK PERMITS 
Filming for commercial purposes
Hour
$50.00
$50.00
Japanese Garden or Rose Garden
Per Use
$205.00
$205.00
Per Use
$255.00
$255.00
Per Hour
$100.00
$100.00
Per Hour
$125.00
$125.00
Per Booking
$30.00
$30.00
Per Use
$28.00
$28.00
Per Use
$150.00
$150.00
Central outdoor stage
Per Use
$50.00
$50.00
Special Event Fee (minimum two hours)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Special Event Alcohol Fee
Per Use
$260.00
$260.00
Non-Resident
Resident Extra Hours
Non Profit Rate
Per occasion when using rec ctr.
Resident
PICNIC AREAS
Casanova
Non Resident Extra Hours
Chair Set-up
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.5
189 of 282

--- page 190 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/21 0
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/22 1
I.
FACILITY RENTAL FEES (continued)
C.
Field Reservations
Priority 1
No fee
No fee
Priority 2
Youth Field Player Fee (Per season)
Per Player
$8.00
$8.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$8.00
$8.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$15.00
$15.00
Tournament
Per Use/Field
$100.00
$100.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$260.00
Priority 3-4
Youth Field Player Fee (Per season)
Per Player
$20.00
$20.00
Weekday and Half Day
Per Use
$20.00
$20.00
Weekend/Holiday Full Day 
Per Use
$40.00
$40.00
Tournament
Per Use
$210.00
$210.00
Tournament Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$260.00
Priority 5
Resident Adult Field Reservation (Per season)
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Priority 6
NR Adult Reservation Field
Per Hour
$32.00
$32.00
Non-Athletic based NP Field Reservation
Per Hour
$15.00
$15.00
Private Tournament
Per Use/Field
$210.00
$210.00
Refundable Deposit
Per Use/Field
$260.00
$260.00
Light Charges
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
Fields - Unlocked Soccer Goal Fee 
Per Request
$25.00
$25.00
Field Attendant
Per Hour
$20.00
Staff Rate
Tennis Court Reservation
Per Hour
$9.00
$9.00
Bocce Courts (4 hours or less) 
Per Booking
$11.00
$11.00
Bocce Courts (4+ hours) 
Per Booking
$25.00
$25.00
Outdoor Fitness Fee
Per Hour
$25.00
$25.00
San Mateo High School Gymnasium Rentals
Gym
Per Hour
$75.00
$75.00
Lobby
Per Hour
$30.00
$30.00
Dance Studio
Per Hour
$35.00
$35.00
Multi-Purpose Room
Per Hour
$35.00
$35.00
ATHLETICS (Priority Levels defined on page 8.13)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.6
190 of 282

--- page 191 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/21
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/22
II.
AQUATICS - (See Classification Categories on page 8.12)
D. CENTER RENTALS - (See pages 8.10 - 8.12)
JOINVILLE
Large Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$24.00
$24.00
Classification E
$35.00
$35.00
Non-Resident
$43.00
$43.00
Small Pool (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$12.00
$12.00
Classification E
$18.00
$18.00
Non-Resident
$22.00
$22.00
Multi-Purpose Room
See 
Community 
Centers 
Category 4 
(pg 8.11)
See 
Community 
Centers 
Category 4 
(pg 8.11)
Off Season Closure Period
By negotiation 
- full cost 
recovery
By negotiation 
- full cost 
recovery
BIRTHDAY PARTY FEE
Reservation Fee/Deposit
Includes 15 Guests
$95.00
$95.00
Additional Guests
Up to 20 Guests
$6.00
$6.00
KING POOL
Both Pools (includes Dressing Room)
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
$20.00
Classification E
$30.00
$30.00
Non-Resident
$37.00
$37.00
Off Season Closure Period
By negotiation 
- full cost 
recovery
By negotiation 
- full cost 
recovery
BOATHOUSE
Classification A
No Charge
No Charge
Classification B
$20.00
$20.00
Classification E
$32.00
$32.00
Non-Resident
$41.00
$41.00
FACILITY PERS. RATES
Custodian
Per Hour
$30.000
Staff Rate
Facility Specialist
Per Hour
$20.000
Staff Rate
LIFEGUARDS
1st Guard - Senior Guard
Per Hour
$20.000
Staff Rate
2nd & each additional Guard
Per Hour
$17.000
Staff Rate
MARINA LAGOON
Boating pass (power boats 5 hp and up)
Annual
$450.00
$450.00
Daily
$40.00
$40.00
Boating pass (under 5 hp and sail over 8 ft.)
Annual
$250.00
$250.00
Daily
$25.00
$25.00
III. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
Volleyball net and standards rental
Per Weekend
$30.00
$30.00
Refundable Deposit
$100.00
$100.00
Custodian 
Per Hour
$30.000
Staff Rate
Clay
25 lb Bag
Actual cost
Actual cost
PHOTOCOPY & MAILINGS
Agendas
Year
$6.00
$6.00
Agendas & Minutes
Year
$12.00
$12.00
Photocopies
Per Sheet
$0.15
$0.15
IV. SCHOOL DISTRICT FEES
A.  
B. SAN MATEO FOSTER CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT (SMFCSD)
Fees shall be applied to the district and affiliated organizations (eg. PTA, Boosters, Foundation) as follows:
SAN MATEO HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
Unless otherwise specified in an adopted facility use agreement, indoor, swimming pool and athletic facility fees shall be calculated administratively to be 
comparable to the SMUHSD fee schedule as it pertains to City use of similar SMUHSD facilities.
Picnic and special park facility fees, and staffing fees charged to SMUHSD shall be at the rates described in other sections of the fee schedule.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 8.7
191 of 282

--- page 192 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/21
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/22
V.
GOLF COURSE
A. GENERAL
Weekdays
Per Round
$39.00
$39.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$28.00
$28.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$20.00
$20.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$55.00
$55.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$35.00
$35.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$27.00
$27.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$25.00
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$29.00
$29.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$310.00
$310.00
B. RESIDENT
Weekdays
Per Round
$34.00
$34.00
Weekday Twilight
Per Round
$28.00
$28.00
Weekday Super Twilight
Per Round
$20.00
$20.00
Weekends (Fri., Sat., Sun., Holiday) 
Per Round
$47.00
$47.00
Weekend Twilight
Per Round
$35.00
$35.00
Weekend Super Twilight 
Per Round
$27.00
$27.00
Weekday-back 9
Per Round
$25.00
$25.00
Weekend-back 9
Per Round
$29.00
$29.00
Senior Weekdays
Per Round
$30.00
$30.00
Sr. 10 Play Card
Each
$260.00
$260.00
C. JUNIOR
Jr. Weekdays
Per Round
$15.00
$15.00
Jr. Weekend
Per Round
$18.00
$18.00
D. RESIDENT GOLF I.D. CARD
Per Annual Fee
$20.00
$20.00
E. RANGE BALLS (BUCKET)
Size: Warm-up
$5.00
$5.00
Small
$8.00
$8.00
Medium
$11.00
$11.00
Large
$14.00
$14.00
F. MEMBERSHIP SUBSCRIPTION
Per Month
$29.99
$29.99
VI. PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
A. HERITAGE TREE PERMIT
Per Permit
$100.00 
$80.00
$100.00
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
Per Tree
$740.00 
$475.00
$740.00
Right of Way Tree Removal
Per Hour
Actual cost 
charged by a 
city designated 
private tree 
care company
Actual cost 
charged by a 
city designated 
private tree 
care company
Per Residential Unit Type:
Per unit*
Per unit*
B. MEMORIAL BENCH
Per Bench
$2,500.00
$2,500.00
C. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (15 gallon)
Each
$483.00
$483.00
D. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (36 inch box)
Each
$1,480.00
$1,480.00
E. TREE REPLACEMENT COST (48 inch box)
Each
$2,960.00
$2,960.00
F. COMMEMORATIVE TREE
Per Tree
$1,000.00
$1,000.00
G. COMMUNITY GARDENS - Community Garden Plots
Per Square Ft.
$0.28
$0.28
H.
Each
$80.00
$80.00
I. HERITAGE TREE APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL (Applicant Exempt from Fee)
Each
$80.00
$80.00
Single Family
$29,598.00 
$26,973.00
$29,598.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$27,172.00 
$16,906.00
$27,172.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$20,476.00 
$19,470.00
$20,476.00
Mobile Homes
$17,564.00 
$18,995.00
$17,564.00
K.
 Per $100 Valuation on 
Building Permit App. 
$0.30
$0.30
Single Family
3.05 2.84
persons per unit
Multi-family 2-4 units
2.80 1.78
persons per unit
Multi-family 5+ units
2.11 2.05
persons per unit
Mobile Homes
1.81 2.00
persons per unit
J.
* Fee = Land Dedication Requirement x Median Land Value of $4,852,055 $4,888,914 per acre adopted by City Council Resolution, where Land Dedication 
Requirement = [(Quantity of proposed dwelling units x population factor per dwelling unit type) less (quantity of existing dwelling units x population factor per dwelling 
unit type)] x (2 acres/ 1000 population) per Muni Code Section 26.64. The population factors per dwelling unit type are as follows:
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
PARK AND RECREATION TAX ON RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMITS 1
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PLANNING APPLICATION 
PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY 
RESIDENTIAL PROJECTS.
Golf Fees ‐ The Parks and Recreation Director may adjust green fee amounts for marketing and promotional
activities as is necessary to encourage optimum play at the municipal golf courses.
HERITAGE TREE APPEAL TO PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION (Applicant 
Exempt from Fee)
Page 8.8
192 of 282

--- page 193 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
UNIT
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
THROUGH 
12/31/21
FEES 
EFFECTIVE 
1/1/22
VII.
A.
Fee is per 
Consultant's 
Fee is per 
Consultant's 
B.
Building Valuation on Those 
Building Permits Whose 
Valuation is Over $5,000
0.05% 0.07%
0.05%
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
1These fees are collected by Community Development's Building Division - see page 2.3
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REVIEW FEE1
CONSULTANTS FOR SPECIALIZED PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES OR 
TO EXPEDITE PLAN CHECKING AND INSPECTION SERVICES
REIMBURSE COST OF STAFF OR CONSULTANT TIME SPENT IN PLAN CHECK OR 
INSPECTION SERVICES. PARK PLAN CHECK AND INSPECTION SERVICES ON 
BUILDING PERMITS. FEE TO BE COLLECTED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT 
APPLICATION. AFTER PAYMENT OF FEES, PERMITTEE MAY APPLY FOR AN 
EXEMPTION FOR PROJECTS HAVING NO PARK PLAN CHECK OR INSPECTION 
REQUIREMENTS.
Page 8.9
193 of 282

--- page 194 ---
Flat Per Use B-1*
$40.00
$30.00
$25.00
$15.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Flat Per Use B-2*
$50.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Flat Per Use B-3*
$45.00
$35.00
$30.00
$20.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Room Hourly E-1*
Room Hourly 
NR-1*
$120.00
$145.00
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Room Hourly E-2*
Room Hourly 
NR-2*
$170.00
$200.00
$145.00
$170.00
$120.00
$135.00
$70.00
$80.00
*Fee includes requested room and use of immediately adjacent kitchen.
Hourly E-2
Hourly
NR-2
N/A
N/A
$95.00
$120.00
$75.00
$90.00
$40.00
$50.00
Gymnasium (E1, E-2)
$25.00
E-2
$90.00
NR-2
$115.00
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
PARKS AND RECREATION
Community Center Fee Schedule
B-1 Classification: (Non-profit (including 501©(6)) conducting business activity)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
B-2 Classification: (Non-profit booking on Sat/Sun beginning after 3 pm or ending after 6pm - fee applies to entire booking)
Room Category
Any Room
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
B-3 Classification: (B-1 groups reserving regular monthly meeting times.)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
E-2 & NR-2 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during non-business hours)
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Birthday
Birthday
King
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: If requesting more than one room, use the following chart for additional fees:
Room Category
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
Additional Hourly Charges: $19.00 Rental Officer per hour if needed; $29.00 Custodian per hour if needed.
E-1 & NR-1 Classification: (private, profit & non-resident business uses during specifically designated operating hrs.)
Room Category
Page 8.10
194 of 282

--- page 195 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Standin
Theatre
Facility
Room
Category
Beresford
Assembly
1
614
439
Beresford
Social
3
359
256
Beresford
Activity
3
540
385
Beresford
Conference
4
Beresford
Studio
4
333
238
Beresford
Club
4
342
244
Beresford
Assembly
2
Central
Activity 
A/B
2
265
189
Central
Activity A
4
Central
Stage
4
307
219
Central
Lounge
4
254
181
Central
Activity B
4
City Hall
City 
Council
2
City Hall
Room C
3
City Hall
Atrium
3
City Hall
Room A
4
211
150
City Hall
Room B
4
City Hall
Cafeteria
4
250
178
King
Assembly
1
125
89
King
Social A/B
2
125
89
King
Studio
4
84
60
King
Social A
4
King
Conference
4
King
Social B
4
Joinville Pool
Multipurpose
4
162
116
170
122
101
72
Sr. Center
Assem/MP
1
158
113
Sr. Center
Activity
3
125
89
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A
4
158
113
Sr. Center
Conference
4
150
107
C. FACILITY CATEGORY TABLES
88
Activity
102
111
114
Activity 
Sr. Center
Assembly
180
Central
Beresford
Assembly
205
King
Assembly
120
Central
Assembly
City Hall
Council 
Chambers
King
Social 
Beresford
Sr. Center
Assem/MP 
A (Back 
Half)
King
Social B
King
Conference
City Hall
Conf Rm 
Central
Activity 
Beresford
Conference
Beresford
Sr. Center
Activity
Facility
Room
Banquet
85
City Hall
Conf Rm 
C
City Hall
Atrium
Beresford
Social
Studio
83
70
42
Beresford
Studio B
42
Beresford
Club
28
Beresford
Studio A
City Hall
Conf Rm 
26
Central
Lounge
Central
Stage
50
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
53
34
King
Studio
53
King
Social A
42
City Hall
Cafeteria
Joinville 
Multipurpose
54
Central
Activity B
57
Note - Capacities are fire safety maximums. Rental capacities may vary and are established by each center consistent with use needs.
Page 8.11
195 of 282

--- page 196 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Classification B:
Recreation activities and meetings that are organized, promoted, conducted, and sponsored by registered non-profits 
(IRS registered non-profit or established and organized not-for-profit groups with written organization documents, 
stationary, and/or membership lists) serving residents of the City of San Mateo and whose membership is open to 
the general public.
Classification B-1:
Any activities which are related to the business or mission of the organization.
FACILITY PERMIT CLASSIFICATION DEFINITIONS
Classification A:
Public recreation activities that are co-sponsored by or affiliated with the Recreation Department after meeting 
department qualifications and requirements.
B-1 groups participating in in-kind volunteer service fee waiver program.
Classification E:
Any recreation, social, business, or service activity conducted by any person or group not included within 
Classifications A or B and are residents or businesses of the City of San Mateo, such as parties and receptions.
E-1: E classification use during specifically designated public facility hours.
Classification B-2:
Any activities scheduled during "Prime Time," defined as any booking beginning 3 p.m. or later, or ending 6 p.m. 
or later on Saturdays and Sundays.
Classification B-3:
B-1 groups reserving regular monthly meeting times.
Classification B-4:
NR-2: NR use during non-public facility hours.
E-2: E classification use during non-public facility hours.
Non-Resident:
Recreation activities, social, business, or service, meetings, and private groups in which one-half of its current 
membership are not residents of the City of San Mateo or in the case of private groups, such as receptions at parties, 
the applicant (or business) is not a City resident.
NR-1: NR use during specifically designated public facility hours.
Page 8.12
196 of 282

--- page 197 ---
PARKS AND RECREATION
Athletics Field Priorities
Priority 1:
Programs and activities conducted or sponsored by the City of San Mateo. This includes the San Mateo Police 
Activities League program(s).
Priority 2:
Priority 5:
A. Adult resident sports groups or teams.
B. Resident private rentals.
Priority 6:
Youth or Adult non-resident groups, teams, or individuals. Nonresident is defined as having an organization address 
outside of the San Mateo City limits and/or having less than 25% residency.
Programs conducted by Elementary Schools (K-8) within the City of San Mateo. Also programs conducted by 
organizations that limit their recruitment and sign-ups to individuals living within the San Mateo City limits and are 
recreational in nature having a "everyone plays; no child is turned away" philosophy. Residency requirement for 
Priority 2 consideration is a minimum of 90%
Priority 3:
Programs conducted by private high schools within the City of San Mateo. Also, programs conducted by organizations 
in which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. Organizations may be "select" in that 
participants may be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency requirement for Priority 3 consideration is a 
minimum of 50%. Residency verification may be required.
Priority 4:
Programs conducted by organizations in which participants must "tryout" or be selected based on skill level. 
Organizations may be "select" in that participants may be recruited from cities other than San Mateo. Residency 
requirement for Priority 4 consideration is a minimum of 25% residency. Residency verification may be required.
Page 8.13
197 of 282

--- page 198 ---
UNIT
I.
PERMITS
A. MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT:
1. Establishment Certificate for Non-Practitioner Owners
1
Base Fee for Processing
$565.00 $559.00
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per 
Hour as Appropriate
2. Establishment Certificate for Owner/Practitioners
Verification/Processing/Safety Inspection
Base Fee for Processing
$282.00 $279.00 1
+ Actual Time Spent x Rate Per 
Hour as Appropriate
B. MASSAGE PRACTITIONER OFF- PREMISE
Verification/Processing
Each
$53.00
C. TANNING SALON
1. Tanning Facility Application Fee
Each
$480.00 $475.00
2. Tanning Facility Biyearly Renewal Fee
Each Facility
$79.00
D.  TAXI CAB DRIVER Investigation/Processing
New/Renewal
$111.00 $110.00 1
E. TAXI CAB INSPECTION
$133.00 $132.00 2
F. ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT
Each
$308.00 $305.00
G. TOW SERVICE
1. Tow Truck Application Fee
$281.00 $278.00 1
2. Tow Truck Rotation List
$44.00
3. Tow Truck Licensing Fee
$3.00
H.
Fee/Per Hour
$155.00 $154.00
II.
COPIES OF REPORTS
A. ACCIDENT REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
B. CAD REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
C. ARREST REPORTS
Per Page
$0.15
D. CLEARANCE LETTER
Each
$10.00
E. PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST
Per Page
$0.15
III.
VIDEO/AUDIO TAPE RECORDS AND PHOTOS
A. VIDEO RECORDINGS
1.
Each
$12.00
B. PHOTOS
Each
$5.00
IV.
Each
$15.00
V.
A.
Per 1/4 Hour
$6.00
B.
Per Page
$0.10
C.
Each
Actual Cost
DVD / CD / Flash drive Recording
FILING OF REPORT OF REPOSSESSION 
(State Law GC 41612)
SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM
(State Law CEC 1563)
CLERICAL COSTS (Charged on a 1/4 hr basis w/the hrly rate set at $24.00)
STANDARD REPRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS OF A SIZE OF 8 1/2 X 
14 INCHES OR LESS
REPRODUCTION OF OVERSIZE DOCUMENTS, DOCUMENTS 
REQUIRING SPECIAL PROCESSING, POSTAGE, RETRIEVAL/RETURN 
OF RECORDS HELD OFF-SITE
POLICE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
Background Investigation/Verification/ Processing/Safety Inspection
PROJECT PLAN CHECKING FEE ON BUILDING PERMITS
Page 9.1
198 of 282

--- page 199 ---
POLICE
UNIT
VI.
FALSE ALARMS
First alarm starting each fiscal year (7/1/21)
One
Free
2nd & over
Each
$105.00 $104.00
VII.
Each
As determined by the County
VIII. OFFICER RESPONSE
A.
Per Hour
$86.95 $86.00
B.
Per Hour
$86.95 $86.00
Per Officer
(one (1) hour min.)
C.
See “SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT” Section
D.
Each
$275.00
(per CA Government Code 
68097.2)
IX.
VEHICLE RELEASES
A. IMPOUNDED/STORED VEHICLE
Each
$20.00
X.
One
$107.00 $106.00
Additional
$70.00
XI.
OUTSIDE DETAIL RATES 3, 4
Police Officer
Per Hour
$104.50
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$125.37
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$63.25
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$82.28
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$81.96
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$52.22 $51.20
Parking Enforcement Rep.
Per Hour
$37.38
Police Officer
Per Hour
$130.62
Police Sergeant
Per Hour
$156.72
Community Service Officer
Per Hour
$79.07
Sr. Dispatcher
Per Hour
$102.85
Police Reserve Officer
Per Hour
$102.45
Police Vehicle Abatement Officer
Per Hour
$65.27 $63.99
Parking Enforcement Rep.
Per Hour
$46.73
Police Department Footnotes:
1 Plus prevailing State, Federal and County Fees for fingerprinting of applicants that are at the following costs:
DOJ Prevailing Fee
$32.00
FBI Prevailing Fee
$17.00
County Prevailing Fee
$5.00
$54.00
2
3
4
In the event the Police Department must augment staffing of an outside detail with personnel from an allied agency, the outside detail rate charged 
shall be commensurate to the actual rate which is charged by that agency, which may be higher/lower than the rate listed.
The rates charged for Outside Detail may be updated during the Fiscal Year to reflect negotiated salary increases and ensure full cost recovery.
Category B: Fund raising events organized, conducted and sponsored by 
registered non- profit organizations.
Category C: Events sponsored by for-profit business or non-tax-exempt 
The fee will include up to two re-inspections at no additional cost.  Additional inspections will be billed at 50% of the original cost.
OUTSIDE DETAIL
CIVIL SUBPOENA WITNESS FEE DEPOSIT (Governed by State Law). 
Actual costs will be charged
(excluding vehicles towed exclusively under the authority of VC 22651(c), 
(g), (k), (o), (i.)(l), or VC 226.55.5).
Category A: City organized, conducted, sponsored, or co-sponsored events, or 
non- profit sponsored events that benefit city programs.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FEE
BOOKING FEE (UPON CONVICTION) STATE LAW SECTION 29550.1.
EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE 
(DUI) upon conviction (Gov't Code Section 53150-58)
DISTURBANCE SERVICE FEE
(loud parties, barking dogs, etc.)
STORAGE OF FIREARM 
(Includes safekeeping)
Page 9.2
199 of 282

--- page 200 ---
POLICE
$77.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$46.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$46.00/ $10.00 w/POC
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$46.00
$46.00
$335.00
$42.00
$335.00
$46.00
$46.00
$56.00
$46.00
$335.00
$144.00
$144.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$46.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$46.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
Overtime in meter zone/feeding meter
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$42.00
$46.00
11.48.070
Parking in bus zone (curb marked)
17.08.20
Boat or other object parked on public right-of-way
11.44.150
Meter violation
11.44.160
11.44.165
Repeat violations for overtime parking (2nd violation-same day, same place)
11.48.030
Parking in alley
11.40.110
Parked on private property w/o consent
11.44.090
Parked in front of a hooded meter
11.44.130
Parking over lines
11.40.060
Curb wheels/set brake on hill
11.40.070
Parking so as to obstruct traffic
11.40.100
Violation of emergency signs posted
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted) (No residential parking permit)
11.40.040(b)
Restricted parking on City lot (posted) i.e., City Hall, Rec Centers, Library, etc.
11.40.055
Street sweeping
11.36.010(1)
Parallel parking in angle slot
11.36.020
Angle parking (right front tire not within 18” of curb)
11.40.040(a)
Restricted parking on City street (posted)
11.32.070
Red, yellow, etc., curb markings
11.32.100
Commercial vehicle on residential street, 10,000 lbs. GVW
11.32.105
Oversized vehicle/trailer parked on residential street
22523(b)
Abandon vehicle-public/private property
11.32.030
Truck parked on City street (may be used for limos, small shuttle buses, and small school buses)
11.32.040
Parked on parkway (Planting strip)
22521
Parking within 7 ½ feet of train tracks
22522
Blocking disabled ramp
22523(a)
Abandoned vehicle- any highway
22514
Blocking fire hydrant
22515(a)
Parked with engine running and/or parking brake not set
22516
Person locked in vehicle
22500(l)
Blocking wheelchair access to sidewalk
22502(a)
Not within 18” of the curb
22507.8
Handicapped parking
22500(h)
Double parking
22500(i)
Parking within bus zone
22500(k)
Parking upon any bridge
22500(e)
Blocking any driveway
22500(f)
Parking on a sidewalk
22500(g)
Obstructing traffic by parking near excavation
22500(b)
Parking within a crosswalk
22500(c)
Parking within a safety zone
22500(d)
Parking within 15 ft. of fire station driveway
21113
Parking on public grounds-no permit
22500.1
Fire lane
22500(a)
Parking within an intersection
PARKING PENALTY SCHEDULE
Only one violation per citation
4000(a)
Expired registration (make sure you check the POC box)
5200
License plates failure to display (make sure you check the POC box)
5204
Tabs (make sure you check the POC box)
Page 9.3
200 of 282

--- page 201 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
PARKING FEES
A. TEMPORARY NO PARKING METERS (1)
Up to 7 days
Per Day/Per Meter
$12.50
8 – 49 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$75.00
50 – 98 days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$150.00
99+ days
Per Wk./Per Meter
$300.00
Per Installation
$77.00 $76.20
B. TEMPORARY "NO PARKING" SIGNS
Each
$3.00
C. DOWNTOWN PARKING FEE PARKING PASSES
2nd and El Camino Real 
Monthly
$65.00
Central Parking
Monthly
$100.00
Tennis Court Garage 
Monthly
$65.00
Main Street Garage 
Monthly
$65.00
Transit Center
Monthly
$65.00
Railroad Avenue between 5th to 9th
Monthly
$40.00
Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10,
Monthly
$40.00
Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11,
Monthly
$40.00
D. ON-STREET AND OFF-STREET RATES (per SMMC 11.40.010)
($0.50 minimum for credit cards at pay stations)
Time Limit:
Premium On-Street Space 
3 Hours/per Hour
$1.50
Premium Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.25
Premium Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$1.25
(Central Garage – Lots 4, 5, 6)
Value On-Street Spaces
3 Hours/Per Hour
$1.00
Value Off-Street Facilities 
3 Hours/Per Hour
$0.75
Value Off-Street Facilities
No Limit
$0.75
No Limit
$0.25
E. VALET PARKING PERMIT FEE 
Permit Fee 
Per Permit
$478.00 $473.00
Implementation/Replacement Costs:
Curb Marking
Each Location
$85.00 $84.00
Signs
Per Sign
$141.00 $140.00
Meter Pole/Bracket
Per Pole/Bracket
$40.00
F.
Annually Per Space Per Day
$1.00 x # of spaces x # 
of days of operation per 
week x 52 weeks
G. PUBLIC EV CHARGING STATION
Per kW/h
$0.25
USE OF PUBLIC PARKING SPACES FOR VALET STATIONS
PUBLIC WORKS
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
For each time the City installs and removes a meter bag.
(Main Street Garage – Lot 1, Second and ECR Garage – Lot 2, Tennis Court Garage – Lot 3, 5th and 
B Lot – Lot 7, 4th and Railroad Lot – Lot 8, Transit Center – Lot 9, 5th to 9th Ave on S. Railroad 
Ave), Kinko’s Lot – Lot 10, and Worker’s Resource Lot – Lot 11
Page 10.1
201 of 282

--- page 202 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
II. ENCROACHMENT PERMITS (see Encroachment Permit Notes (II))
A. NEW INSTALLATION PERMIT
Each
$906.00 $896.00
Deposit
See Notes
1.
Each
$1,124.00 $1,112.00
B. TEMPORARY PERMIT (Note II.B.)
1. Dumpster (Note II.B.1)
Each
$385.00 $381.00
Deposit Per Location
$500.00
2.
Each
$385.00 $381.00
Deposit Per Location
$1,000.00
3.
Each
$160.00
Deposit
$350.00
Per Container Per Day
$10.00
C.  DOCK PERMIT
1. New Installation and Repair or Replacement (Note II.C.1)
Each
$169.00 $167.00
Min Deposit Per Dock
$1,000.00
2. Annual Fee (Note II.C.2)
Per Dock
$130.00 $128.00
D. UTILITY PERMIT
1. Permit Processing Fee (Note II.D.1)
See Notes
2. Deposit for Large projects (Note II.D.2)
Min Deposit Per Location
$1,000.00
E. INVESTIGATION FEE (Note II.E.)
Each
$906.00 $896.00
F.  
Each
$906.00 $896.00
G. OUTDOOR RESTAURANT SEATING & MERCHANDISE DISPLAY (Note II.G.)
Each
$371.00 $367.00
Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review Fee (Note II.A.1.)
Scaffolding/Soil Test and Borings/Sewer or Storm Drain Video Inspection/Traffic Control
ENCROACHMENT PERMIT WORK IN CONJUNCTION WITH SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT 
(Note II.F.)
(Note II.B.2)
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Temporary Storage Container/Pod (Note II. B. 3.)
Renewal Fee
Page 10.2
202 of 282

--- page 203 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
NOTES:
II. ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
A.
New Installation Permit
1. Permanent – City Right-of-Way Review Fee
B. 
 Temporary Permit
1.
2.
3.
C.
Dock Permit
1. New Installation and Repair or Replacement
2.
D. Utility Permit
1.
2.
3.
E. Investigation Fees
1.
2.
F. Encroachment Permit Work in Conjunction with Site Development Permit
1.
2.
G. Outdoor Restaurant Seating & Merchandise Display
Work without an encroachment permit will result in an investigation fee. Whenever any work, for which an encroachment permit is required by the San Mateo 
Municipal Code, has commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special investigation shall be completed.  An investigation fee shall be charged and paid 
whether or not a permit is subsequently issued.  The fee must however be paid and the required standard insurance obtained before a permit may be issued for 
such work.
The investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the encroachment permit fee as shown on the City of San Mateo Public Works Fee Schedule. The payment 
of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all provisions of the San Mateo Municipal Code, nor from any penalty prescribed by 
law.
All encroachment permits required as a result of any request for service, including conditions applied to Planning items (variances, site plan & architectural reviews, 
planned community developments, and others) shall be charged all appropriate fees as shown above.
Note: There will be no fee for encroachment permits to repair sidewalk tripping hazards as determined by City inspection staff.  A traffic control plan is required for all 
work  as specified in the Encroachment Permit Application packet.
In order to obtain an encroachment permit, a standard Encroachment Permit Application must be filled out by the owner of the property or the contractor performing the 
work. In addition to the required fee and application, all aspects of Chapter 17 of the San Mateo Municipal Code must be adhered to. The applicant must post financial 
security equal to the value of the improvements to secure performance. Labor and materials must also be secured at one-half the value of the improvements. Current 
standard insurance must be on file with the City. Insurance requirements include public liability and property damage insurance, naming the City as an additional insured. 
Evidence of insurance may include a certificate and/or endorsement.
Any improvements not included elsewhere in this section shall be charged the minimum fee shown above.  If a project account has been funded by the applicant, his 
representative or a developer responsible for the construction of the project, will be charged the minimum fee.  A portion of the fee will be used to fund the 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) in accordance with Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The fee and deposit are waived for City 
projects.
Request to place or replace structures such as fences, retaining walls, pilasters, stairs, etc. in the public right-of-way (ROW) when an exception is made by the 
Director of Public Works or designee for such structure. This fee will cover field visit to the site, engineering review of the existing or proposed structure, and 
administrative time to prepare a license agreement. 
When work that requires an encroachment permit is done in conjunction with a Site Development Permit or Project Account, the encroachment permit fee will be 
the same as a New Installation.  The total deposit will then cover fees for required engineering and inspection services by the City related to the encroachment 
and site development permits. The engineering and inspection fees for both the encroachment permit and the site development permit will be charged at the 
current hourly rate an hourly rate of $130 per hour.
The fees charged plus the required deposit must be paid and standard insurance must be on file prior to issuance of any encroachment permit. The deposit will be 
held in a project account and any balance remaining after completion of the project will be refunded. Charges in excess of the deposit will be billed and must be 
paid before sign-off by the City that the work related to encroachment and site development permit is complete.
Utility projects considered large, shall place a minimum deposit for review and inspection in a project account. Any funds remaining in the account will be 
refunded after project completion. Projects considered large are as follows:  100 linear feet or more of trenching, projects requiring traffic or pedestrian detours 
on collector and/or arterials roadways, and as determined by the Director of Public Works or designee.
Utility company permit fees will be waived if the utility relocation work is the result of a City project.  Public Utility Commission Rule 20-A projects will also 
result in waiver of encroachment permit fees.
The Applicant shall pay a fee and a minimum deposit to cover department reviews and inspections. Any funds remaining in the account will be refunded after 
project completion.
Annual Fee: Dock owners shall pay an annual fee to cover the costs of program administration and periodic inspections.
Utility companies shall pay a permit processing fee of $385.19 $381.00.  For each job in the City right-of-way, the utility company shall obtain an encroachment permit, pay a 
utility encroachment permit fee of $192.09 $190.00 and provide the City with current standard insurance.  A portion of the base fee will be used to fund the Stormwater Pollution 
Prevention Program (STOPPP). Utility encroachment permits shall be obtained prior to any utility work in the City right-of-way.
Request to place outdoor restaurant seating and/or merchandise display in the public right-of-way.  Installations must provide ADA access and minimum pedestrian 
travel way of three (3) feet.
Temporary Storage Container/Pod: A standard encroachment permit, including general liability insurance, will be required for the placement of a temporary 
storage container or portable on-demand storage (Pod) in the public right-of-way. Approved permit renewals will be charged at a rate of $10 per container per 
day.
Dumpsters: A standard encroachment permit, including necessary insurance, will be required for the placement of a dumpster in the public right-of-way.
Scaffolding, soil tests, sewer video inspections, etc.: An encroachment permit may be issued upon completion of an encroachment permit application and proof of 
current standard insurance on file with the City. A fee and security deposit must be posted to insure removal of the temporary encroachment and cover any repair 
costs due to damage that may occur.
Page 10.3
203 of 282

--- page 204 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
A. PERMIT FEE - non-refundable
Each
No Fee
Each
$566.00 $560.00
Each
$566.00 $560.00
B. EROSION CONTROL MINIMUM COMPLIANCE
Minimum Deposit
$381.00 $377.00
NOTES:
III. STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION CONSTRUCTION PERMITS
Type III and IV Projects -  Refundable Deposit
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
In order to obtain a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program (STOPPP) Construction permit per the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, an applicant (i.e., property 
owner or contractor performing the work) must  pay the appropriate permit fee. Type I Projects are not required to pay the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Program 
Construction Permit fee, but are still required to comply with Construction Best Management Practices (BMP) as outlined in the permit card. Storm drain polluters 
may be liable for fines up to $10,000 per day. A permittee under the STOPPP Construction permit is required to adhere to all aspects of Chapter 7.39 of the San Mateo 
Municipal Code.  If the work being done involves an encroachment permit, a separate  STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type I Projects
Type I Projects are small projects not in the public right-of-way that are generally under 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance (i.e. most residential driveways).  If the work 
being done involves an encroachment permit, a separate STOPPP permit is not required since the encroachment permit includes it. 
Type II Projects
Type II Projects are medium projects generally over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as installation/removal of swimming pools, demolition/installation of garages, 
home additions, retaining walls, and decks, that do not require a planning application and are reviewed through the building permit process (excluding residential 
driveways not in the public right-of-way). The fee for this type of project is listed above. No deposit is required.
Type III Projects
Type III Projects are medium sized projects over 20 cubic yards of soil disturbance, such as home additions, new single family homes, that require a planning application. 
The fee for a Type III Project is listed above. Type III projects require a minimum refundable deposit for erosion control plan compliance. The minimum deposit is 
required at plan submittal to guarantee to the City that the permitted will comply with the terms and conditions of the permit. At the time of permit issuance, additional 
funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the 
City in its engineering review and inspection is refundable. Time billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in 
accordance with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has met all 
requirement in the erosion plan and the City has not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes)
Type I Projects
Type II Projects
Type III and IV Projects
(See Stormwater Pollution Prevention Construction Permit Notes for description of types of projects)
PLUS
Type IV Projects
Type IV Projects are large sized projects, 1 acre or greater. Type IV Projects require a General Permit issued by the State Water Resources Control Board in addition to the 
City’s STOPPP Construction Permit. The STOPPP Construction Permit fee is listed above. Type IV projects required a minimum refundable deposit for erosion control 
plan compliance. The minimum deposit is required at plan submittal for additional plan checking and inspection. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be 
required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its 
engineering review and inspection is refundable. Time billed at $130.00 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in 
accordance with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions. The deposit will be refunded if permittee has complied 
with the submitted erosion plan and the City has not been required to perform work on permitee’s behalf. 
Page 10.4
204 of 282

--- page 205 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
IV. SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS (See SMMC 23.40)
A. PROCESSING FEE - non-refundable
Each
$40.00 $39.00
PLUS
B. ENGINEERING/INSPECTION FEE (deposits) * *
Minimum Deposit
$2,500.00
185 - 1,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$2,500.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic
 Yard Over 185
$4.00 $3.90
1,001 - 10,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$5,700.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic
Yard Over 1,000
$0.30
over 10,000 cubic yards
Deposit
$8,400.00
+ Each Add'l Cubic
Yard Over 10,000
$0.25
* *
V.
FINAL MAP-PLAN CHECK/ PROCESSING
A. PARCEL MAPS
Per Map
$2,436.00 $2,410.00
B. SUBDIVISIONS
Per Map
$2,757.00 $2,727.00
C. LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT/MERGERS (by deed)
Each
$1,596.00 $1,579.00
D. CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
Each
$532.00 $526.00
E. MAP COPY FEE
Per Page
$22.00
E. ABANDONMENT EASEMENT / RIGHT-OF-WAY
Hourly
$132.00 $130.00
Minimum Deposit
$2,205.00 $2,181.00
VI. REPAIR TO CITY PROPERTY
A. LABOR
Hour
$132.00 $130.00
Hour O/T
$198.00 $196.00
B. CONTRACTOR
Hour
Cost + 5%
C. MATERIAL & EQUIPMENT
Each
Cost + 5%
D. INSPECTION/SURVEY/ ENGINEERING
Hour
$132.00 $130.00
VII. SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE (Collected by Bldg. Div. w/building permit)
A. RESIDENTIAL
1. Single-family dwelling
Per Connection
$2,680.00 $2,650.00
2. Multi-family dwelling
a. Studio, & 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$1,340.00 $1,325.00
b. 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,013.00 $1,991.00
c. 3 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,680.00 $2,650.00
3. Hotels or motels
Per Room/Apt
$1,340.00 $1,325.00
4. Board or lodging houses
Per Bedroom
$1,340.00 $1,325.00
B. NON-RESIDENTIAL
1. Churches
Per Connection
$2,680.00 $2,650.00
2. Golf courses
Per Connection
$2,680.00 $2,650.00
3. Hospitals
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00 $130.00
4. Lodges and clubs
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00 $130.00
5. Rest, residential care & convalescent homes
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00 $130.00
6. Schools
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00 $130.00
C. COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL
Per Fixture Unit
$131.00 $130.00
NOTES:
VII. SEWER CONNECTION CHARGE  (Collected by Bldg. Div. w/building permit)
1.
2.
3.
4.
a.
b.
c.
The minimum deposits listed are required at plan submittal for plan checking and inspection. At  the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be 
added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated inspection fees, as determined by the City. Any portion not expended by the City in its engineering 
review and inspection is refundable. Time will be billed at $130 per hour. Expenses not covered by the deposit will be billed monthly. Bills to be paid in  accordance 
with regular City billing processes. Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off of conditions.
The remodeled or new structure will only be assessed a charge for fixture units in excess of those existing, based on the per fixture units identified on the City’s 
sewer connection charge worksheet.
The new plans will be used to determine the number of fixture units in excess of those shown on the demolition plans.
The demolition plans will be used to determine the number of existing fixture units.
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
In the case of Commercial and Industrial users, where the building has been previously occupied and the interior is being demolished or remodeled, the sewer 
connection charge will be computed as follows:
Commercial and Industrial users are also charged at the per fixture unit rate identified on the City’s sewer connection charge worksheet. If the commercial or 
industrial user is constructing a new building the minimum charge is assessed at the time a building permit is issued. The charge is based on the number of fixture 
units as determined based on the Uniform Plumbing Code and the City worksheet. If tenant improvements occur after the initial charge is assessed and paid, the 
sewer connection charge at that point will depend on how many fixture units were actually installed as part of the new building permit. New fixture units will be 
charged at the per fixture rate identified on the City’s sewer connection charge worksheet.
Non-Residential hospitals, lodges and clubs, rest, residential care, convalescent homes, and schools are charged at the per fixture unit rate identified on the City’s 
sewer connection charge worksheet.
The assessment of the sewer connection charge is based on the Uniform Plumbing Code in conjunction with the plumbing fixtures identified on the City’s sewer 
connection charge worksheet. The City charges a minimum connection charge for Residential, Churches and Golf Courses. This minimum charge is based on an 
average number of fixture units per dwelling unit or entity.
Equipment rate based on the most recent State "Labor Surcharge and Equipment Rental Rates" book published by 
Caltrans Publications.
Page 10.5
205 of 282

--- page 206 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL  COMPLIANCE FEES
A. CLASS A WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$504.49 $499.00
B. CLASS B WASTE DISCHARGE PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$348.80 $345.00
C. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERMIT ANNUAL FEE
Each
$263.87 $261.00
D. POLLUTION PREVENTION INSPECTION FEE
Per Hour
$147.61 $146.00
E. INSPECTION/INVESTIGATION FEE
Per Hour
$131.43 $130.00
Per Hour OT
$197.15 $195.055
F. SAMPLING FEE
Per Hour
$131.43 $130.00
Per Hour OT
$197.15 $195.055
G. ANALYTICAL SERVICES FEE
Each
Cost
H. HYDRAULIC LOADING CHARGE
Per 100 Cu. Ft.
Basic Sewer Service 
Charge rate
I.
DEFICIENCY RESULTING IN “SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE”
Each
$435.74 $431.00
J. FAILURE TO CONDUCT SELF-MONITORING
Per Hour
$131.43 $130.00
K.
Each
$270.95 $268.00
L. ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP/ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
1. Labor
Per Hour
$131.43 $130.00
Per Hour OT
$197.15 $195.055
2. Material And Equipment
Each
Cost
3. Contract Services
Each
Cost
M. APPEAL - of decision to issue permit, levy fees, or finding of noncompliance
$263.00 $260.00
N.
Each Case
$2,651.00 $2,622.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH OFFICIAL NOTICE TO CORRECT VIOLATION
VIOLATIONS REQUIRING INSPECTION WARRANT, OR COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL 
LITIGATION PROCEEDINGS
Page 10.6
206 of 282

--- page 207 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
NOTES:
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE FEES
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I.
J.
K.
L.
M.
N.
Stormwater Management Permit. A property that is required to install, operate, and maintain stormwater treatment facilities, or maintain parking lots, storm drain 
inlets, or other facilities for stormwater pollution prevention as specified in project conditions, shall obtain a Stormwater Management (SWM) permit from the 
Director of Public Works. (7.39.235). Cost based on 2 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Failure to Comply with Official Notice to Correct Violation. When an authorized enforcement official finds that a user has violated or is violating this Chapter, or a 
permit or order issued hereunder, the official may serve upon said user a Notice of Violation which enumerates the violations found, and orders compliance by a date 
certain. (7.38.460, 7.39.270); any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and 
welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance. (7.38.470, 7.39.280)
Failure to Conduct Self-monitoring. The Director may require that the user conduct a sampling and analysis program of the user’s waste or stormwater discharge of a 
frequency and type required by the Director to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. (7.38.360, 7.39.160).
Deficiency Resulting in “Significant Noncompliance”. At least annually, the Director shall provide public notice in the largest local daily newspaper a list of those 
significant industrial users that, during the previous twelve (12) months, were found in significant noncompliance, as defined in the pretreatment regulations and this 
Chapter. (7.38.420). Cost based on administrative time and cost of publication for 3 days in San Mateo County Times.
The following fees are intended to help recover the cost of implementation and enforcement of SMMC Chapter 7.38
Hydraulic Loading Charge. The Director may impose upon the user a hydraulic loading charge for discharge of groundwater or other waters in cases where 
conventional sewer service charges applied by the City or District do not account for said flows or uses. User discharges which exceed 10,000 gallons per batch 
discharge or users undertaking long term discharges of groundwater to the sanitary sewer shall be metered and levied a hydraulic loading charge based upon the basic 
sewer service charge rate. (7.38.260)
Analytical Services Fee. Cost based in service provider cost of service.
Pollution Prevention Inspection Fee. The Director is authorized to conduct all inspection, surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to assure compliance 
with this Chapter. The Director may enter without unreasonable delay, during facility hours of operation, any premises of any user in which a potential pollutant 
discharge source exists or in which facility discharge and materials and waste records are kept. Records shall be made available to the Director for inspection and 
copying. Reasonable times for inspection and sampling may include times that are unannounced. (7.38.350, 7.39.140) Cost based on 0.5- hour admin and inspection 
time per year at standard labor rate.
Violations Requiring Inspection Warrant or Commencement of Civil Litigation Proceedings. In the event that the user refuses the Director entry to the premises, 
inspection may be made only upon the issuance of a search warrant by a duly authorized magistrate. In the event that the user refuses entry after the request has been 
made, the Director is hereby empowered to seek assistance from the court in obtaining such entry; Any person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions 
of this Chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be subject to the imposition of civil penalties pursuant to Chapter 1.11 of this Code. (7.38.350, 
7.39.140, 7.38.410, 7.39.200, 7.38.480, 7.39.290)
Appeal of Decision to Issue Permit, Levy fees, or Finding of Noncompliance. Any person affected by any decision, action or determination, including administrative 
remedies, made in interpreting or implementing the provisions of this Chapter may appeal therefrom to the City of San Mateo Public Works Commission. (7.39.200). 
Fee is refunded if appellant prevails.
Environmental Cleanup/Abatement of Public Nuisance. City may impose a charge upon the user to reimburse the City or District for the cost of cleaning and/or 
repair of City facilities, including mitigation of waste discharge to the storm drainage system; any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the 
provisions of this Chapter is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance., and may be summarily abated and/or restored 
by the City. The cost of such abatement and restoration shall be borne by the owner of the property. (7.38.180, 7.38.470, 7.39.280).
Class B Discharge Permit. A Class B permit shall be issued, at the discretion of the Director, to any user who is not a significant industrial user, yet requires periodic 
inspection and/or monitoring to verify compliance with this Chapter. A Class B permit may be required for discharge of industrial waste from stationary sources, 
trucked wastes, contaminated groundwater, and other industrial wastes approved by the Director for discharge to the sanitary sewer. (7.38.260). Cost based on 1.5 
hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Class A Discharge Permit. A Class A permit shall be issued to all significant industrial users (SIU). Class A permit holders are regulated in accordance with the 
requirements specified in the pretreatment regulations, 40 CFR Part 403 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, as amended, and this Chapter. 
(7.38.260) Cost based on 4 hours admin and inspection time per year at standard labor rate.
Inspection/Investigation Fee. Applies to inspection and investigation activities not covered in D. or K. Cost based on standard labor rate.
Sampling Fee. The Director shall have the right to establish on any property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering operations. During all 
inspections as provided herein, the official may take any samples deemed necessary to aid in the pursuit of the inquiry or in the recording of activities on the  site. 
(7.38.350, 7.39.140). Cost based standard labor rate.
Page 10.7
207 of 282

--- page 208 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
IX. DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
A. WWTP PHASE II EXPANSION FEE 
Gallon/ADF
$2.34
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Residential
a. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,003.76 $4,760.95
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,071.42 $2,992.38
2. Commercial and Industrial
a. Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,605.20 $8,187.63
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,592.98 $4,370.10
c. Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$2,992.33 $2,847.13
C. SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Single-family dwelling
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,264.00 $5,009.00
2. Multi-family dwelling, 1 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$2,632.00 $2,504.00
3. Multi-family dwelling, 2 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,948.00 $3,756.00
4. Multi-family dwelling, 3 bedroom
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,264.00 $5,009.00
5. Hotels or motels
Per Room
$2,632.00 $2,504.00
6. Non-residential
Per Fixture Unit
$263.00 $250.00
D.
Per Space
$52,550.00 $50,000.00
X. NEWSRACK ORDINANCE VIOLATION
A. ABATEMENT FEE
failure to abate violation for Chapter 17.12 of the S.M.M.C.
Per Violation
$67.00 $66.00
B. APPEAL OF ABATEMENT ORDER FEE 
(Fee refunded if appellant prevails).
Per Violation
$130.00 $129.00
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Developer Impact Fee to pay for the increase of 1.5 Million Gallons a Day of treatment capacity for
biological demand and solids in the Waste Water Treatment Plant. This increase is needed to 
accommodate the loading from future development and connections.
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-LIEU FEE
Page 10.8
208 of 282

--- page 209 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
UNIT
FEE
XI. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
A. PLANS AND SPECS
Per Set
Varies at cost
B. ENGINEERING PHOTOCOPIES - large sizes
24" x 36"
Per Print
$3.74 $3.70
36" x no. of feet
Per Print
$3.74 $3.70
C. PHOTOCOPIES
8.5" x 11"
Per Copy
$0.15
8.5" x 14"
Per Copy
$0.20
11" x 17"
Per Copy
$0.30
D. PLOT COPY FEE – subdivision / parcel map
24" x 36"
Per Copy
$40.00
E. HANG BANNER
Per Request
$260.00 $258.00
+ certificate of insurance
F. STREET LIGHT BANNER
Per Pole/ Per Banner
$66.00 $65.00
G. CURB PAINTING:
Red Tipping
Per Request
$177.00 $168.00
Initial installation (covers two years)
Maintenance Fee (covers two years) is 1/2 of initial installation fee.
Blue Curb (Disabled)
 Per Request 
$210.00
Yellow Curb (Loading Zone) 
Per Request
$210.00
White Curb (Passenger Loading) 
Per Request
$210.00
Green Curb (Limited-Time) 
Per Request
$210.00
Non-Critical Red Zones
Per Request
$210.00
H.
Each
$431.70 $427.00
I. WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILTIES PERMIT
1. Minor and Major Permits
Min Deposit Per Location 
$7,500.00
2. Section 6409 Permit 
Min Deposit Per Location
$4,000.00
J.
Each
$5,000.00
(Note: Nonprofit organizations may contract with a vendor of their choice to install their banners but an 
encroachment permit is required.)
ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT FEE to be charged when assignment is not required as a condition of 
construction; charge for non-essential address changes only.
Request to place a new facility or substantial modification of an existing facility in the public ROW.  
This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-application phase. The deposit will cover field 
visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, inspections during construction, the 
cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or expert knowledge in connection with 
wireless facilities, including, but not limited to:  permit application completeness and/or accuracy, 
compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative sites analysis, inspection during 
construction, and administrative time to process the permit application. At the time of permit 
issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the deposit if the deposit balance is less 
than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion not expended by the City is refundable.  
Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
Request to modify an existing facility in the public ROW.  If modifications are deemed substantial, 
applicant shall apply for a Minor or Major Permit.  This minimum deposit listed is required at the pre-
application phase and will cover field visits, engineering review of the existing or proposed facilities, 
inspections during construction, the cost of hiring an independent consultant with specialized or 
expert knowledge in connection with wireless facilities, including, but not limited to: permit 
application completeness and/or accuracy, compliance with RF emissions, gap in services, alternative 
sites analysis, inspections during construction, and administrative time to process the permit 
application. At the time of permit issuance, additional funds may be required to be added to the 
deposit if the deposit balance is less than estimated, as determined by the City.  Any portion not 
expended by the City is refundable.  Account must be paid in full prior to final sign-off.
SHARED MOBILITY PERMIT APPLICATION FEE
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
Page 10.9
209 of 282

--- page 210 ---
PUBLIC WORKS
SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION FEES
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
SPECIAL EVENT FEES FOR SERVICE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
UNIT
FEE
I. USE FEES -
PUBLIC STREETS AND RIGHT OF WAYS
Daily Use Fees:
Per Day
$100.00
Per Day
$200.00
Television Series/Movies/Pilot and Feature Films
Per Day
$300.00
CIVIC FACILITIES, PARKS, SPECIAL USE AREAS (for all uses)
Per Hour
$50.00
II. SUPPORT SERVICES FEES
III. DEPOSIT
All businesses shall submit a refundable deposit in the amount of $1,000.00 at the time fees are due and payable to cover any unanticipated support services 
fees, property damage repair, etc.
Videos/Travel/Documentary/Still Photography/Industrial Commercials
Regular rates for personnel who may be required to prepare specialized logistic plans in support of the event
Actual costs for consumable supplies, e.g. parking meter signs, garbage bags, etc., used in support of the event
Actual cost for specialized services contracted by the City that are required to support the event
$230 - For High Impact events sponsored by non-profits. A high impact event means a special event meeting two or more of the following criteria: 1) Being held for 
the first time; 2) expected to draw more than 500 participants; 3) held on a recurring basis; 4) requiring the support of 2 or more city departments; 5) following a 
route with a   different start and finish; 6) requiring a street closure; or 7) requiring interagency coordination.
$500 – For Low Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
$1,000 – For High Impact events sponsored by a commercial or for profit business. See above for definition of a High Impact event.
Depending on the nature of the special event, applicable fees may include some or all of the following:
Filming fees shall apply to commercial businesses desiring to film on public streets, right of ways or within city owned facilities, including parks, civic facilities and 
buildings or special use areas, such as Poplar Creek Golf Course.  Prior to the granting of a permit, all businesses shall comply with all applicable policies and procedures, 
including, but not limited to, evidence of insurance, permits and licenses, and appropriate hold harmless language.
Any filming use that requires any of the following, shall be billed in accordance with the guidelines outlined within the Special Community Events Permit Fee 
section, Category C designation; i.e. for-profit businesses or non-tax exempt organizations:
Fees for use of City equipment, consumable supplies, preparation of specialized logistic plans, specialized contracted services and on-duty personnel will be 
billed at cost, plus a 25% administrative overhead fee.
Fees for use of overtime personnel shall be calculated at the top step prevailing overtime rate for the classification(s) utilized plus a 25% administrative 
SPECIAL COMMUNITY EVENTS PERMIT
COMMERCIAL FILMING FEES
FEE CATEGORY
Overtime rates for personnel not regularly on duty who are required to work the event
Fair market value charges for utilization of City equipment and/or vehicles used in support of the event
No Fee-For events open to the general public, sponsored by a non-profit organization that are not for fundraising purposes, where no registration or admission fee is 
charged, no donations or contributions are solicited or where no money exchanges hands.
$100 - For Low Impact events sponsored by a non-profit. A low impact event means any event other than a high impact event.
Page 10.10
210 of 282

--- page 211 ---
Page 11.1 
Chapter 3.64 
FEES 
Sections: 
3.64.010 
Fees. 
3.64.020 
Penalties & Interest 
3.64.030 
Fees for Code Enforcement 
3.64.010 - FEES.  
Prior to submittal of the annual budget, the City Manager shall submit to the City Council the fees proposed 
for the next fiscal year. The prior year’s fees shall continue if the City Manager does not submit new 
proposed fees. If the proposed fees do not represent a percentage increase exceeding the percentage 
increase for the preceding twelve (12) month period as shown by the San Francisco Bay Area Consumer 
Price Index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, under the heading All 
Items, or any index substituted by the Department of Labor therefor, the proposed fees shall become 
effective on the following July 1, unless a different date is set forth in the submission, provided however that 
the Council may amend the fees before the effective date. If the proposed fees represent a percentage 
increase exceeding the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index, they must be approved by the 
Council before becoming effective. Notwithstanding the above, the Council may amend any fee at any time. 
(Ord. 1994-12 § 1, 1994; Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989; Ord. 1986-26 § 1, 1986). 
3.64.020 - PENALTIES AND INTEREST.  
Any fee imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable within thirty days after the bill is mailed by the 
City. The fees shall be delinquent if not paid within said thirty days. Any person who fails to remit any fee 
within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the amount due, per month to a maximum of 
three months, plus interest at the rate of 1-1/2 percent per month, or fraction thereof, computed from the 
delinquent date of the fee until and including the date of payment. (Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989). 
3.64.030 - FEES FOR CODE ENFORCEMENT. 
(a)
Nuisances. The Council is authorized to adopt fees for administrative costs incurred in the
enforcement of Title 7. No fee shall be charged if a property owner or agent abates the nuisance or
violation within thirty (30) days after first notification of the violation is mailed by the City.
(b)
Other Violations. The City shall be authorized to adopt fees for costs incurred in the enforcement of
Municipal Code violations which result in a requirement for a planning application or building permit, if such
application is made or permit applied for more than thirty days after notification of the violation is mailed.
(Ord. 1990-5 § 4, 1990; Ord. 1989-8 § 1, 1989).
211 of 282

--- page 212 ---
UNIT
FEE
I.
A. WWTP PHASE II EXPANSION FEE
Gallon/ADF
$2.34
Developer Impact Fee to pay for the increase of 1.5 Million Gallons a Day of 
treatment capacity for biological demand and solids in the Waste Water 
Treatment Plant. This increase is needed to accommodate the loading from 
future development and connections.
B. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Residential
a. Single-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$5,003.76 $4,760.95
b. Multi-family
Per Dwelling Unit
$3,071.42 $2,992.38
2. Commercial and Industrial
a. Retail
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$8,605.20 $8,187.63
b. Office
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$4,592.98 $4,370.10
c. Industrial
Per 1,000 Sq. Ft.
$2,992.33 $2,847.13
C. SOUTH TRUNK AREA SEWER IMPROVEMENT FEE
1. Single-family dwelling
$5,264.00 $5,009.00
2. Multi-family dwelling, 1 bedroom
$2,632.00 $2,504.00
3. Multi-family dwelling, 2 bedroom
$3,948.00 $3,756.00
4. Multi-family dwelling, 3 bedroom
$5,264.00 $5,009.00
5. Hotels or motels
$2,632.00 $2,504.00
6. Non-residential
$263.00 $250.00
D.
Per Space
$52,550.00 $50,000.00
II.
Each
0.5% of valuation
III.
Per Tree
$740.00 $475.00
IV.
Per Residential Unit Type:
A.
Single Family
$29,598.00 $26,973.00
Multi-family 2-4 Units
$27,172.00 $16,906.00
Multi-family 5+ Units
$20,476.00 $19,470.00
Mobile Homes
$17,564.00 $18,995.00
V. CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE
Per Sq. Ft.
$1.09 $1.08
Projects over 10,000 sq. ft. that are one or more of the following:
A. NEW COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF SUPERSTRUCTURE
B. ADDITION OF SQUARE FOOTAGE TO EXISTING COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT
C. COMMERCIAL TENANT IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRING PLANNING
APPROVAL
VI. COMMERCIAL LINKAGE FEE
(City Council  adopted September 16, 2016 - effective November 16, 2016)
New commercial construction in excess of 5,000 sq. ft.
Exempts public uses such as hospitals, nonprofit and government facilities, 
churches, schools and child care centers.
A. HOTELS
Per Sq. Ft.
$11.35 $10.79
B. RETAIL, RESTAURANTS, AND SERVICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$5.68 $5.40
C. OFFICE, RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT USES, AND MEDICAL
OFFICES
Per Sq. Ft.
$28.36 $26.99
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK AND LANDSCAPE RESOURCES
PARK IN-LIEU FEE / PARK IMPACT FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL 
PLANNING APPLICATION PROJECTS INVOLVING PARCEL MAPS, 
SUBDIVISION AND OTHER MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL 
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
ART IN PUBLIC PLACE FEE
The fee is applicable to commercial and multi-family residential projects 
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES (subject to annual review)
CENTRAL PARKING IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT PER SPACE IN-
LIEU FEE
Page 12.1
212 of 282

--- page 213 ---
UNIT
FEE
IMPACT, IN-LIEU, AND LINKAGE FEES
DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES
VII.
A. In Lieu Fees for Fractional Units
1. Rental
0.1 Housing Unit
$27,352.00  $25,962.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$54,704.00 $51,924.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$82,056.00 $77,887.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$109,408.00 $103,849.00
2. Owner
0.1 Housing Unit
$23,737.00 $22,478.00
0.2 Housing Unit
$47,473.00 $44,956.00
0.3 Housing Unit
$71,210.00 $67,434.00
0.4 Housing Unit
$94,947.00 $89,912.00
B. In Lieu Fee for Projects Less than 11 Units
1. Rental
5 Unit Project
$136,760.00 $129,811.00
6 Unit Project
$164,112.00 $155,773.00
7 Unit Project
$191,464.00 $181,735.00
8 Unit Project
$218,816.00 $207,698.00
9 Unit Project
$246,168.00 $233,660.00
10 Unit Project
$273,520.00 $259,622.00
2. Owner
5 Unit Project
$118,683.00 $112,390.00
6 Unit Project
$142,420.00 $134,868.00
7 Unit Project
$166,156.00 $157,346.00
8 Unit Project
$189,893.00 $179,824.00
9 Unit Project
$213,630.00 $202,302.00
10 Unit Project
$237,366.00 $224,780.00
BELOW MARKET RATE HOUSING FEE
A fee in lieu of constructing affordable housing units onsite per Below Market Rate 
program:
Page 12.2
213 of 282

--- page 214 ---
Att ‐ 4
I
II
ANNUAL GENERAL FUND
ANNUAL OTHER FUNDS
New Fees
New Fees
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy
-
$                               
Library Link + Service Fees
-
$                               
Library Logo Tote Bags
-
$                               
Priorty 2 Field Per Player Fee 
-
$                               
Tree replacement cost 15 gallon
-
$                               
 Tree replacement cost 36 inch box
-
$                               
Tree replacement cost 48 inch box
-
$                               
Commemorative Tree
-
$                               
Community Gardens - Per Square foot charge 
-
$                               
Memorial Bench Program
-
$                               
Heritage Tree appeals 
-
$                               
Membership Subscription
-
$                               
Increase in Excess of CPI
Increase in Excess of CPI
Police- Outside Detail Rates 
Vehicle Abatement Officer (Category B)
Vehicle Abatement Officer (Category C)
-
$                               
Below Market Rate Housing
100,000.00
$         
Beresford Picnic Shelter (entire)
-
$                               
Commerical Linkage Fees
300,000.00
$         
Ryder Park Picnic Shelter (entire
-
$                               
Harborview Park, Central Park A4, Indian Springs
-
$                               
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
-
$                               
Heritage Tree Permit Fee
-
$                               
Park In-Lieu/Park Impact Fee
-
$                               
Single-Family
-
$                               
Multi-Family 2-4 Units
-
$                               
Multi-Family 5+ Units
-
$                               
Mobile Homes
-
$                               
Transportation Improvement Fees
-
$                               
Residential
-
$                               
Single-Family
-
$                               
Multi-Family
-
$                               
Commercial and Industrial
-
$                               
Retail
-
$                               
Office
-
$                               
Industrial
-
$                               
General Fund Total:
‐
$                              
Other Funds Total:
400,000
$             
SUMMARY OF FISCAL IMPACTS
&nbsp;
214 of&nbsp;282

--- page 215 ---
Proposed Fee
or Deposit
Cost Methodology
Annual Revenue 
Estimate
CDD
CDD restructured many fees
N/A
CDD conducted a fee study with Matrix Consulting Group. As a result, 
their sections of the fee schedule underwent some restructuring. 
They reported and reviewed their findings at the regular City 
Council meeting on 2/16/21.
N/A
438.00
$                 
The City does not currently recoup the costs associated with the 
issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy (TCO). The 
management and issuance of TCOs require staff time, and staff 
recommends the City recover the costs for those expenses. This was 
included as a recommendation in the fee study report reviewed with 
Council on 2/16/21.
 N/A 
Library
 $1.00
$15.00
$115.00
$25.00 
Added as cost recovery for the services provided by being a part of 
the Peninsula Library System
-
$                           
Parks & Recreation
 $                   8.00 In the past, sports were seasonal. Sports now operate year round 
and make requests for field space in Jan & July.
-
$                           
 $              483.00 Actual cost recovery for tree purchase and installation
-
$                           
 $           1,480.00 Actual cost recovery for tree purchase and installation
-
$                           
 $           2,960.00 Actual cost recovery for tree purchase and installation
-
$                           
 $           1,000.00 Actual cost recovery for tree purchase and installation
-
$                           
 $                   0.28  Calculated cost for water and city provided supplies
-
$                           
 $           2,500.00 Actual cost recovery for bench purchase and installation
-
$                           
 $                80.00 Appeal fees to partially recover staff time related to processing 
appeals to Commission and City Council.  N/A to Applicant. 
-
$                           
 $                29.99 Pilot Program with monthly membership dues offering access to 
advanced tee time reservations, special access to facilty, discounted 
range card prices, and monthly specials for VIP members only.  No 
green fee discounts are being proposed initially
-
$                           
Estimated Annual Revenue:
‐
$                           
Membership Subscription
Heritage Tree appeals 
Memorial Bench Program
Community Gardens - Per Square foot charge 
Commemorative Tree
Item
SUMMARY OF NEW FEES:  2021‐2022
Link + Service - Overdue Items
Link + Service - Maximum Fine
Link + Service - Replacement Charges
Library Logo Tote Bags
Tree replacement cost 48 inch box
Tree replacement cost 36 inch box
Tree replacement cost 15 gallon
Priorty 2 Field Per Player Fee 
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy
&nbsp;
215 of&nbsp;282

--- page 216 ---
Item
Current Fee
Proposed Fee
or Deposit
Cost Methodology
Annual Revenue 
Estimate
CDD
Below Market Rate Housing
Various
Various Per resolution 12 (2020) Council approved increased BMR fees on 2/3/20 based on 
updated economic analysis prepared by Economic and Planning Systems, Inc. EPS has 
provided a formula to use to update these fees for future years starting in 2021 based on 
change in construction costs using Engineering News Record, and changes in affordable 
housing pricing which is based on  median income, since CPI will not be an appropriate 
index. The fee is now seperated for rental housing and ownership housing which 
 
increased from the current fee by 5.4% and 5.6% respectively.  ( Special Fund 30)
 $      100,000.00 
Commerical Linkage Fee
Hotels
10.79
$                  
11.35
$            
Retail, Restaraunts, and Services
5.40
$                    
5.68
$              
Office, Research & Development
26.99
$                  
28.36
$            
Parks & Recreation
Beresford Picnic Shelter (entire)
180.00
$                
200.00
$         
The increase brings our pricing more in line, though still below, our neighboring cities 
for facilities with a similar number of tables. It will also allow us to have more uniform 
pricing for our shelter picnic rentals and encourage people to only reserve what they 
will use.
Ryder Park Picnic Shelter (entire
175.00
$                
200.00
$         
The increase brings our pricing more in line, though still below, our neighboring cities 
for facilities with a similar number of tables. It will also allow us to have more uniform 
pricing for our shelter picnic rentals and encourage people to only reserve what they 
will use.
Harborview Park, Central Park A4, Indian Springs
65.00
$                  
85.00
$            
Tree Replacement Cost (24" Box Tree)
475.00
$                
740.00
$         
Actual cost recovery for tree purchase and installation
Heritage Tree Permit Fee
80.00
$                  
100.00
$         
Partial recover of staff cost associated with processing the permit applications.
Park In-Lieu/Park Impact Fee
Single-Family
26,973.00
$          
29,598.00
$   
Multi-Family 2-4 Units
16,906.00
$          
27,172.00
$   
Multi-Family 5+ Units
19,470.00
$          
20,476.00
$   
Mobile Homes
18,995.00
$          
17,564.00
$   
Public Works
Transportation Improvement Fees
Residential
Single-Family
$4,760.95
$5,003.76
Multi-Family
$2,922.38
$3,071.42
Commercial and Industrial
Retail
$8,187.63
$8,605.20
Office
$4,370.10
$4,592.98
Industrial
$2,847.13
$2,991.33
Police
Outside Detail Rates 
Vehicle Abatement Officer (Category B)
Vehicle Abatement Officer (Category C)
$51.20
$63.99
$52.22
$65.27
Increased outside detail rate for Vehicle Abatement Officer position by 2% to reflect 
known, negotiated salary increases which will be effective on July 1, 2021.
 Activity 
Unknown 
Estimated Revenues:
400,000.00
$     
Fees are higher than the previous year due to both an increase in the value of land and 
changes in the census data using the 2019 ACS 5 Year Estimates Tables B25032 & 
B25033 which are factors that determine the population per dwelling unit types.  The 
fee calculation is explained in item VII.
 Activity 
Unknown 
SUMMARY OF FEES IN EXCESS OF CPI:  2021‐2022
 Activity 
Unknown 
The current Transportation Improvement Fee (TIF) has an annual cost increase 
(escalator) based off the Engineering News Records (ENR) Construction Cost Index 
(CCI). The CCI increase from the national average to the San Francisco Bay Area, 
represents a 5.1% increase for FY21-22.
Per resolution 84 (2016) Council may review and revise this fee from time to time. In 
absence of Council action,  the fee shall be adjusted annually based on the % increase in 
Construction Cost Index (CCI) for San Francisco as reported in Engineering News 
 
Record. The CCI increase for this period is 5.1%.  Special Fund 34
 $      300,000.00 
&nbsp;
216 of&nbsp;282

--- page 217 ---
Department
Fee
Reason for Elimination/Reduction
Eliminated Fees
Library
Passport Photo
Service Eliminated
Police
Outside Detail Rates - Parking Enforcement Rep
This position is no longer utilized and there are no longer staff 
holding this classification.
Public Works
Map Copy Fee
Service Eliminated
SUMMARY OF ELIMINATED/REDUCED FEES:  2021‐2022
&nbsp;
217 of&nbsp;282

--- page 218 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-4396
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Ordinance Introduction – Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit Updates
RECOMMENDATION:
Introduce an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior 
Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones” in accordance with changes to state law and “Junior accessory dwelling unit” 
definition.
BACKGROUND:
On March 2, 2020, staff presented the City Council an outline of the changes to ADU and JADU state legislation which 
came into law on January 1, 2020, and discussed the areas of regulation which remain under local agency discretion for the 
purpose of informing a planned update to San Mateo Municipal Code (SMMC) Chapter 27.19 – “Accessory Dwelling Unit 
and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential Zones.” The Council provided feedback on specific questions posed by 
staff regarding those limited areas of discretion and directed staff to conduct community outreach to solicit feedback to 
better understand how residents want future ADU and JADU development in San Mateo to look. The administrative report 
from the March 2, 2020 meeting and comprehensive summary of the ADU and JADU state legislation which became 
effective January 1, 2020, provided by the Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) are provided in this 
report.
Shortly thereafter, the County of San Mateo issued a shelter-in-place order due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic 
which disrupted planned outreach efforts, resulting in a delay of the update to the local ordinance. In the absence of 
having an updated ordinance in place, staff has defaulted to the state regulations in practice regarding those areas where 
our current local ordinance conflicts with state law or is silent regarding new regulations. Existing provisions in the local
ordinance which do not conflict with state law remain enforced.
Staff is currently developing virtual outreach strategies to move forward with the process of collecting community input. 
Staff is also developing a review schedule for ordinance development comprised of two phases:
Phase 1

Formal review and adoption of initially proposed ADU and JADU code update to conform with state regulations 
(Government Code § 65852.2 and § 65852.22)

Introduction and adoption of initial ordinance to occur in March/April
Phase 2

Community outreach efforts to engage residents, homeowner associations, architects/designers, and builders to 
help inform development of second ordinance update
218 of 282

--- page 219 ---

Development of a second, more comprehensive ordinance update reflective of community’s input in remaining 
areas under local control

Return to both the Planning Commission and City Council to present the second ordinance update with a targeted 
adoption date before the end of summer 2021
Special Provisions of the State ADU Ordinance
To maximize opportunities to retain available housing stock, the state included the following special provisions which are 
included in this initial, Phase 1 update to our local ordinance:
Deferred Enforcement
The state requires, upon application and approval, a local agency to delay enforcement against a qualifying substandard 
ADU for five (5) years to allow the owner to correct the violation, so long as the violation is not a health and safety issue, 
as determined by the enforcement agency (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (n); Health & Safety Code, § 17980.12). 
Moratorium for Owner-Occupancy Requirement
The City’s existing ordinance includes a provision that requires owner-occupancy for either the primary dwelling or ADU, as 
permitted by state law. The new state legislation places a five-year moratorium restricting local agencies from enforcing 
owner-occupancy requirements on ADUs approved between January 1, 2020, to December 31, 2024. As such, staff 
proposes to retain the existing owner-occupancy requirement in the proposed ordinance. Should the state move to extend 
the moratorium or remove it entirely in the future, the ordinance can be updated to reflect the new legislation 
accordingly.
Proposed Code Amendments
While the new state legislation has expressly limited the ability of local agencies to regulate the creation of ADUs and 
JADUs, local agencies may still apply development and design standards, including but not limited to, parking, building 
height, setback, landscape, architectural review, and maximum unit size standards, provided the requirements do not 
conflict with the minimum provisions established by Gov. Code § 65852.2 and § 65852.22. Due to the comprehensive 
changes to the state legislation the proposed local ordinance update to SMMC 27.19 incorporates the state provisions 
primarily as-is, however, staff proposes the following standards to expedite the local ordinance update and proactively 
address any potential issues that might occur between now and when Phase 2 is completed:
Required Parking for ADUs
State law specifies required off-street parking associated with ADU development shall not exceed one parking space per 
ADU or per bedroom, whichever is less. The state ordinance also allows local agencies to determine where the required 
parking can be located on the property. Staff proposes to maintain the City’s existing requirement that permits required 
ADU parking to be located in the rear one-third of the property, including the rear yard setback and a portion of the 
required side and street yard setback areas. This parking can be either covered, uncovered, or in tandem configuration. In 
consultation with the Housing and Community Development Department (HCD) it was determined the City’s existing ADU 
parking requirements are more permissive than off-street parking requirements for the primary residence and therefore in 
compliance with state regulations. It should also be noted the new state legislation now eliminates replacement parking 
when a garage or covered parking structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU, or conversion of 
that parking structure into an ADU as was previously required.
By-Right Provision
Consistent with new state legislation, the proposed code amendment establishes that a property owner may construct 
either an attached or detached ADU of at least 800 square-feet (sq. ft.) in size and of at least 16 feet in height with four-
foot side and rear setbacks “by-right” regardless of any development standard based on the percentage of the proposed or 
existing primary dwelling, lot coverage, floor area ratio, open space, or minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude its 
construction. 
219 of 282

--- page 220 ---
Maximum Unit Size
The City has defaulted to the maximum unit sizes (i.e. floor area) specified in state law for both detached and attached 
ADUs. Detached ADUs are permitted to be up to 1,200 sq. ft. while attached ADUs are permitted to be up to 50 percent of 
the floor area of the primary dwelling. It should be noted that staff provided HCD a draft of the proposed ordinance for 
preliminary review. Consistent with HCD’s interpretation of state law, the proposed code amendment specifies that 
notwithstanding the noted 50 percent threshold, local agencies must allow an attached ADU to be of at least 850 sq. ft. for 
a studio or one-bedroom unit, or at least 1,000 sq. ft. for an ADU of two bedrooms or more when converting a portion of 
an existing residence. 
Architectural Standards for Detached Units
HCD found an issue with an architectural standard specified in SMMC 27.19.050 (I)(2)(b) that requires detached ADUs “Be 
designed to minimize the visibility of the accessory dwelling unit from the street(s), with the exception that corner lots are 
excluded from this requirement.” The concern related to the whether the requirement could be objectively enforced, as 
well as serve as a potential encumbrance (i.e. impacts to site planning and size of ADU) for property owners developing 
ADUs on their lots. Staff agrees with HCD’s contention that the requirement leaves room for subjectivity and can no longer 
be enforced given the provisions of the new legislation. As such, the proposed code amendment removes the requirement 
from the list of architectural standards for detached ADUs.
ADU Building Height
As previously noted, a local agency cannot establish a maximum building height lower than 16-feet for both attached and 
detached ADUs. Building height as defined in the municipal code is measured from existing grade to top of the building 
plate, rather than to the tallest roof ridge. Given that ADUs can be created from conversions of existing accessory 
structures or on top of these structures which are commonly built within setback areas close to or on shared property 
lines, staff proposes a modified definition for ADU building height to not to exceed 16-feet as measured from existing or 
finished grade (whichever is lower) from any point along the building’s perimeter to the highest roof peak. The restricted 
detached ADU building height would mitigate some of the potential privacy and view impacts of ADU development to 
adjacent properties while still allowing for design flexibility. Attached ADUs which expand the footprint of the primary 
residence more than 150 sq. ft. (exempted floor area per state law to accommodate ingress/egress to the ADU) are subject 
to the development standards specified by the underlying zoning district provided those requirements do not preclude the 
construction of a 800 sq. ft. ADU of at least 16 feet in height with four-foot side and rear setbacks (i.e. a “by-right” ADU). 
Required Address Assignments
Staff proposes that all new ADU and JADU building permits include an application for a separate address assignment for 
the purpose of assisting the Police and Fire Departments locate these types of dwelling units more efficiently when 
responding to emergencies. It should be noted that the current (FY 20/21) address assignment fee of $427 is waived when 
assignment is required as a condition for construction. As such, the address assignment can be enforced without additional 
cost to the property owner. 
SMMC 27.04.165 (c) – “Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit”
Consistent with the changes to state law, SMMC 27.04.165 (c) “Junior accessory dwelling unit” definition has been 
amended to indicate that JADUs can now be constructed within the walls of an existing or proposed single-family 
residence and no longer require the inclusion of an existing bedroom. It should be noted that attached garages are 
considered part of the residence and can therefore be converted into a JADU. 
DISCUSSION ITEMS:
ADUs in the Front Yard Setback
State law does not address whether ADUs can be located in the front yard setback of a parcel and specifies only that new 
ADU construction provide for four-foot side and rear setbacks and allows local agencies to impose setback standards in 
conformance with state law per Gov. Code Section 65852.2 (a)(1)(B). HCD has interpreted the exclusion of a front yard 
setback standard to mean that ADUs are permitted within front yard areas without restriction for the aforementioned by-
right ADUs. However, the City Attorney’s Office reads Government Code Section 65852.2(a)(1)(B) to say that the City can 
220 of 282

--- page 221 ---
impose a front yard setback requirement. Front yard setbacks serve many purposes, including maintaining adequate sight 
distances around structures located near driveways and sidewalks to enhance vehicle and pedestrian safety. As such, staff 
recommends retaining the existing limitation on front yard setbacks for now and have provided draft findings outlining 
health and safety concerns per the requirements of Gov. Code Section 65852.2 (h)(2)(B)(ii) which are included in the draft 
ordinance attached to this report. 
Planning Commission Recommendation
On February 9, 2021, the Planning Commission reviewed the proposed draft ordinance update and recommended 
adoption of the ordinance to City Council by 4-1 vote. The majority of the Commission were specifically supportive of staff 
recommendations to restrict building height for detached ADUs to a maximum of 16 feet (measured to tallest roof ridge), 
and the proposal to not permit ADUs in front yard setbacks, including the required health and safety findings drafted by 
the City Attorney’s Office. However, one Commissioner did not support treating ADUs differently from other types of 
development regarding how building height would be measured and was not comfortable with the proposal to restrict 
detached building height 16 feet without additional analysis and information. Additionally, the Commissioner did not agree 
with the proposal to restrict locating ADUs in front yard setbacks as a blanket policy. These topics, as well as several 
others, will be covered during the public outreach planned for Phase 2. Any proposed Ordinance revisions will reflect 
community input and again be presented to the Planning Commission for a recommendation prior to City Council review. 
Required State Review
Upon adoption of the ADU/JADU ordinance, the City will be required to submit a copy of the adopted ordinance to the 
state Housing and Community Development Department (HCD) within 60 days after the adoption per Government Code § 
65852.2 (h)(1). After the adoption of the ordinance, HCD may review and submit written findings to the local agency as to 
whether the ordinance complies with state regulations. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
Costs associated with necessary Code amendments, including staff time are covered under the Community Development 
Department’s existing operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The proposed ordinance is statutorily exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
pursuant to Section 21080.17 of the Public Resources Code and Section 15282(h) of the CEQA Guidelines because it is an 
accessory dwelling unit ordinance that is implementing the provisions of Government Code § 65852.2 and 65852.22.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
One public comment has been formally submitted since the March 2, 2020, City Council meeting.
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance 
Att 2 – Administrative Report to City Council (March 2, 2020)
Att 3 – Summary of State ADU/JADU Legislation Effective January 1, 2020
Att 4 – Public Comment
STAFF CONTACT
Phillip Brennan, AICP, Associate Planner
pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org 
(650) 522-7218
221 of 282

--- page 222 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
Amend Section 27.04.165 “Dwelling” to add a definition for “Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit,” and Amend 
Various Sections of Chapter 27.19, “Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit – Residential 
Zones,” of the San Mateo Municipal Code.
WHEREAS, an existing ordinance addressing accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units 
is codified at Chapter 27.19; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Sections 65852.2 and 65852.22 govern accessory dwelling units and junior 
accessory dwelling units and were recently amended; and
WHEREAS, these changes in state law necessitate amendments to Chapter 27.19; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(a)(1)(B) authorizes cities to impose standards on 
accessory dwelling units in conformance with state law that include, but are not limited to, parking, height, 
setback, landscape, architectural review, maximum unit size, and standards that prevent adverse impacts on any 
real property that is listed in the California Register of Historic Resources; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(h)(A) provides that the state Department of Housing and 
Community Development (HCD) is to make findings regarding local agency ordinance compliance with Section 
65852.2; and
WHEREAS, The City reads Government Code Section 65852.2 to authorize cities to regulate ADUs within 
the required front setback area; and
WHEREAS, HCD has reviewed the City’s proposed ordinance and believes that Government Code Section 
65852.2 authorizes the location of accessory dwelling units in required front setback areas and that the City is 
required to permit accessory dwelling units within required front setback areas; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Section 65852.2(h)(B)(ii) provides that, in the event that the City disagrees 
with an HCD finding, the City may adopt findings explaining why the ordinance is in compliance with Section 
65852.2; and
WHEREAS, The City wishes to prohibit accessory dwelling units within required front setback areas 
based on health and safety concerns;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Legislative Findings.  The City Council of the City of San Mateo finds:
(a) Government Code Section 65852.2(a)(1)(B) authorizes cities to impose parking and setback standards 
in conformance with state law.
222 of 282

--- page 223 ---
(b) Government Code Section 65852.2(e) limits side and rear setbacks for accessory dwelling units to 
four feet, but does not address front setbacks.
(c) The City wishes to limit the location of accessory dwelling units to locations outside of the required 
front setback to address the following health and safety concerns:
(1) The City’s required front setback areas range from 15 feet to 25 feet.
(2) Given the size of these required front setback areas, it is necessary to preserve visibility to 
the street from driveways and parking spaces for vehicles exiting the property in order to protect both 
pedestrians and passing vehicles.
Section 2. Subsection (c) of Section 27.04.165 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
(c) "Junior accessory dwelling unit" means an additional, independent living unit constructed within the 
walls of a proposed or legally existing single-family residence, including attached garages.
Section 3. Section 27.19.010 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.010 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit accessory dwelling units (ADUs) in 
accordance with state law.
Section 4. Section 27.19.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.020 Prohibition on Subdivision
Properties with approved ADUs may not be subdivided at the time the units are approved or thereafter.
Section 5. Section 27.19.030 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.030 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental
(a) An ADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.
(b) If an ADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar 
days.
Section 6. Section 27.19.040 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.040 Ministerial Permit Required
An ADU permit application for either an attached or a detached ADU is required in order to demonstrate 
that a unit is in compliance with the provisions of this Article. If the ADU is in full compliance with the provisions 
of this Article, a ministerial, non-discretionary permit will be issued.
223 of 282

--- page 224 ---
Section 7. Section 27.19.050 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.050 Development Standards
An ADU, as defined in Section 27.04.165, shall comply with the following development standards:
(a) Permitted Zoning Districts. ADUs shall only be constructed on property zoned to allow residential 
use.
(b) Number of Units. No more than the number of ADUs allowed by state law may be constructed on 
any site. 
(c) “By Right” ADUs. A property may construct either an attached or detached ADU of at least 800 
square-feet in size and of at least 16 feet in height with four-foot side and rear setbacks regardless of any 
development standard based on the percentage of the proposed or existing primary dwelling, lot coverage, floor 
area ratio, open space, or minimum lot size that would otherwise preclude its construction. The floor area of any 
new ADU which exceeds 800 square feet shall be applied to the maximum floor area allowance of the subject lot 
as prescribed by the underlying zoning district. 
(d) Maximum Unit Size.
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. New ADUs attached to either an existing primary 
residence or accessory structure are subject to the development standards of the underlying zoning 
district provided those requirements do not preclude the construction of a 800 sq. ft. attached ADU of 
at least 16 feet in height with four-foot side and rear setbacks (i.e. a “by-right” ADU).
(2) Accessory Dwelling Unit Conversions. An ADU conversion within the walls of an existing 
primary residence or accessory structure may convert up to a maximum of 50 percent of the existing 
floor area, but in no event shall the size be restricted to be less than 850 square feet for a one-bedroom 
ADU or 1,000 square feet for an ADU of two bedrooms or more, provided the maximum overall floor 
FAR for the parcel is not exceeded. ADU conversions may be expanded up to 150 square feet beyond the 
existing footprint provided the expansion is used to accommodate ingress and egress to the ADU. 
(3) Detached Accessory Dwelling Units.  The floor area of a detached ADU shall not exceed 1,200 
square feet. Existing accessory structures larger than 1,200 square-feet that are being converted into an 
ADU are exempt from the 1,200 square-foot maximum.
(4) Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit and Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit. One new detached  
ADU may be constructed on a lot with a junior accessory dwelling unit (JADU), however, in such 
instances the ADU will be restricted to 800 square feet in floor area and a height limit of 16 feet.
(e) Setbacks. An ADU must provide a setback of at least four feet from both the side and rear yard 
setbacks and outside of any required front setback except that:
224 of 282

--- page 225 ---
(1) No setback shall be required for an existing legally permitted garage or accessory structure 
that is converted to an ADU which is constructed in the same location and to the same dimensions as 
the existing structure.
(2) A minimum setback of four feet shall be required from the side and rear lot lines for all new 
ADU construction not meeting the criteria set forth in subsection (1) above, including ADUs constructed 
above an existing legally permitted garage.
(f) The ADU, whether attached or detached, shall provide a separate exterior entrance, cooking 
facility/kitchen, and bathroom/shower facility.
(g) Location of Accessory Dwelling Unit. The ADU may be within, attached to, or detached from the 
primary dwelling unit. ADUs shall be accessory to the primary residence and are permitted in the same locations 
on the parcel as the primary residence as specified in the underlying zoning district provided that only a four 
foot side and rear setback will be required for an ADU.
(h) Number and Type of Required Parking Spaces.
(1) General Requirements. There shall be a minimum of one standard size off-street parking 
space for each ADU or bedroom, whichever is less. All required parking spaces shall be a minimum of 10 
feet wide by 18 feet long without any obstructions. The required ADU parking may be located in a 
garage, carport, uncovered, or in a tandem orientation. The required parking for the primary residential 
dwelling unit must comply with current standards, as specified by the underlying zoning district.
(2) Location of Required Parking for Accessory Dwelling Unit.  The required parking for the 
accessory dwelling unit may be located on the rear one-third of the property, including the required rear 
yard setback and a portion of the required side yard and street side yard setback areas. The required 
parking shall not be located within the required front, interior side yard, or street side yard setback 
areas outside of the rear one-third of the property.
(3) Replacement off-street parking is not required when a garage, carport, or covered parking 
structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU or converted to an ADU. 
(4) Parking Exemptions.  No additional parking shall be required for an ADU in the following 
instances:
(A) The ADU is located within one-half (1/2) mile walking distance of public transit; or
(B) The ADU is located within an architecturally and historically significant historic 
district; or
(C) The ADU is in part of the proposed or existing legally permitted primary residence or 
an existing legally permitted accessory structure; or
(D) In an area requiring on-street parking, permits are required but not offered to the 
occupant of the ADU; or
225 of 282

--- page 226 ---
(E) When the ADU is located within one block of a car sharing pick-up/drop-off location.
(i) Architectural Standards. New ADUs and conversions of an existing legally permitted structure shall be 
designed to comply with the following standards:
(1) Attached Accessory Dwelling Units. ADUs that are attached to the primary residential 
dwelling unit shall:
(A) Locate the primary entrance to the ADU so that it is not directly facing the street 
unless precluded by existing site conditions as determined by the City; 
(B) Be of the same architectural style as the primary structure;
(C) Be constructed of the similar exterior materials, finishes, and family of colors as the 
primary residential dwelling unit; and
(D) Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy.
(2) Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit. An ADU that is detached from the primary residential 
dwelling unit shall:
(A) Comply with the architectural standards listed above for attached ADUs;
(B) Not exceed 16 feet measured from grade to highest roof peak; and
(C) Offset windows from neighbor's windows to maximize privacy.
(j) Utility Service. If an ADU is constructed within existing space, a separate water connection, a sewer 
service connection, or power connection is not required for an ADU. If an ADU is not constructed within existing 
space, the City may require a new or separate utility connection.
(k) Utility Fees. For an ADU located within an existing structure, payment of a connection fee or capacity 
charge is not required. For an ADU that is separate from an existing structure, the City will require payment of a 
connection fee or capacity charge that is proportionate to the ADU’s burden.
(l) Address Assignment.  An application for a building permit for an ADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment.
(m) Other Requirements. All other zoning requirements shall be complied with unless an authorized 
variance is approved.
Section 8. Section 27.19.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.060 Recordation of Deed Restriction
(a) A deed restriction shall be recorded to run with the land and submitted to the City prior to building 
permit issuance which indicates the following:
226 of 282

--- page 227 ---
(1) Only one unit may be occupied solely by persons other than the owner or owners of record. 
This requirement is not applicable to ADUs approved between January 1, 2020, and December 31, 2024, 
per California Gov. Code (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(6)).
(2) If an ADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days.
(3) Sale of the ADU separately from the sale of the single-family residence is prohibited.
(4) The approved size and attributes of the ADU.
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant.
Section 9. Section 27.19.070 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.070 Purpose
The purpose of this Article is to set forth regulations to permit junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs).
Section 10. Section 27.19.080 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.080 Prohibition on Subdivision
Properties with approved JADUs may not be subdivided at the time the JADU is approved or thereafter.
Section 11. Section 27.19.090 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.090 Prohibition on Sale and Limitation on Rental
(a) A JADU shall not be sold separately from the primary residence.
(b) If a JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive calendar 
days.
Section 12. Section 27.19.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.100 Ministerial Permit Required
A JADU permit application is required in order to demonstrate that the unit is in compliance with the 
provisions of this Article. If the JADU is in full compliance with the provisions of this Article, a ministerial, non-
discretionary permit shall be issued.
Section 13. Section 27.19.110 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
227 of 282

--- page 228 ---
27.19.110 Development Standards
A "junior accessory dwelling unit," as defined in Section 27.04.165, must comply with the following 
development standards:
(a) Permitted Zoning Districts. JADUs shall only be constructed on properties zoned to allow single-
family residential use, and for which a single-family residence exists, or is proposed to be built. The residential 
property shall not be part of a condominium, townhouse, or other multi-family development.
(b) Limit to the Number of Junior Accessory Dwelling Units. The number of JADUs is limited to one per 
residential lot with a single-family residence. Lots with multi-family housing or more than one detached single-
family dwelling are not eligible for JADUs.
(c) Setback and Other Zoning Regulations. For purposes of setbacks and other zoning regulations, the 
JADU shall be considered to be a part of the principal use of subject site and shall be subject to the same 
requirements of the underlying zoning district.
(d) Maximum Unit Size. The floor area of a JADU shall not exceed 500 square feet, including attic and 
basement areas as defined in Section 27.04.200 for the applicable zoning district, provided that the total floor 
area for the parcel or lot does not exceed the maximum allowable floor area.
(e) Construct within Existing Structure. The JADU shall be constructed within the walls of the proposed 
or legally existing single-family dwelling unit, including an attached garage. Detached accessory structures, 
including detached garages or carports, are not permitted to be converted into JADUs.
(f) Unit Access.  A JADU must include:
(1) A separate exterior entry from the main entrance to the one-family dwelling, which shall be 
provided to serve the JADU only; and
(2) An interior entry access between the JADU and the one-family dwelling. This interior entry 
access may be a door equipped with a double lock. A permitted JADU may include a second interior door 
for sound attenuation.
(g) Efficiency Food Preparation Area. A JADU shall include an efficiency kitchen that includes the 
following components:
(1) Cooking facility with appliances; and
(2) Food preparation counter and storage with cabinets that are of reasonable size in relation to 
the size of the JADU.
(h) Sanitation Facilities. A JADU may include its own separate sanitation facilities, or may share 
sanitation facilities with the primary dwelling unit.
(i) Building and Fire Requirements.
228 of 282

--- page 229 ---
(1) No fire wall separation or noise attenuation measures are required between the main 
dwelling and the JADU. No fire sprinklers are required for the JADU, unless the associated improvements 
meet the threshold for a "substantial remodel" as defined by Chapter 23, Building and Construction, of 
the San Mateo Municipal Code. The JADU shall have an adjoining door connected to the main living area 
for fire separation. A smoke alarm shall be required in the JADU and shall be connected to the smoke 
alarm in the main residence.
(2) The JADU shall be equipped with a carbon monoxide detector.
(j) Utility Service. A separate water connection, a separate sewer service connection, and power 
connection as water, sewer, and power service is not required for a JADU.
(k) Parking. No additional off-street parking is required for a JADU.
(l) Address Assignment. An application for a building permit for a JADU must include application for a 
separate address assignment.
Section 14. Section 27.19.120 of the San Mateo Municipal Code is amended as follows:
27.19.120 Recordation of Deed Restriction
(a) A deed restriction shall be recorded to run with the land and submitted to the City prior to building 
permit issuance which indicates the following:
(1)  The property owner must occupy either the single-family residence or the junior accessory 
unit.
(2) If a JADU is rented, the unit shall not be rented for a period of less than 30 consecutive 
calendar days.
(3) Sale of the JADU separately from the single-family residence is prohibited.
(4) The approved size and attributes of the JADU.
(b) A copy of this deed restriction must be given to each prospective occupant.
Section 15. Environmental Determination. In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21080.17 and 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines, section 15282(h), the portion of this ordinance 
addressing accessory dwelling units is statutorily exempt from CEQA, because it relates to second units in a 
single family or multifamily residential zone.  In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3), the 
portion of this ordinance addressing junior accessory dwelling units is exempt from CEQA, because it can be 
seen with certainty that there is no possibility that amending the City’s Zoning Code to comply with state law 
requirements pertaining to junior accessory dwelling units within existing residences will have a significant effect 
on the environment.
229 of 282

--- page 230 ---
Section 16. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 17. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 18. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
230 of 282

--- page 231 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number: 10
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 21-4396
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 2, 2020 
SUBJECT:
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)/Junior Accessory Dwelling Unit (JADU) Ordinance Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Discuss changes to State law associated with ADU and JADU development and consider areas of regulation which remain 
under local agency discretion.  
BACKGROUND:
In recent years (2016 and 2017), the California legislature passed several reforms (AB 2299, SB 1069, and AB 2406) 
intended to reduce regulations related to ADUs and JADUs to spur construction of these types of dwellings, with the 
broader goal of helping address the state housing crisis. ADU’s are also known as second units, guest houses, casitas, 
“granny” units or in-law units.  
In the spring of 2019, the City did extensive outreach aimed at helping the San Mateo community talk more constructively 
about the shared challenge of housing.  The City hosted two events in conjunction with Home for All, a San Mateo County 
collaborative, aimed at creating an inclusive environment for community members to discuss and build a shared 
understanding of how housing challenges affect the entire community and to broaden participation in the discussion.  The 
City held two events, the first on April 27, 2019 and the second on May 18, 2019. The second conversation was built upon 
the feedback and input that was received from the first gathering. The need for more information and feasibility of ADUs 
and JADUs were voiced by the community during these community conversations, as well as during the City’s General Plan 
community workshops. Please see Attachment 1 and Attachment 2 for summaries of these community conversation 
events.
Additionally, the City Council, at its annual 2019-20 goal setting meeting, directed staff to study ADUs and JADUs with 
regard to the City’s current regulations and opportunities to streamline the permitting process. 
New ADU/JADU State Legislation
On January 1, 2020, six ADU and JADU related housing bills signed into law by Governor Newsom became effective. Three 
of the six Assembly and Senate Bills (AB 68, AB 881, and SB 13) took direct aim at easing local zoning controls, reducing 
associated development fees, and expediting permit processing associated with ADU and JADU development. The primary 
changes resulting from these bills are summarized below:
AB 68 & AB 881 (Overlapping bills):

Prohibits minimum lot size requirements for ADUs;

Prohibits the imposition of side and rear setbacks greater than 4-feet for an ADU;

Ensures by-right an ADU of at least 800 square feet, 16 feet in height with 4-foot side and rear setbacks;

Limits floor area ratio, lot coverage, and other zoning requirements as impediments to ADU development; 
231 of 282

--- page 232 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO

Local agencies must ministerially approve a permit within 60 days of deeming application complete;

Prohibits requiring replacement parking for demolished or converted garages or parking structures (i.e. carports);

Allows a new or converted ADU in the same location and footprint as the existing accessory structure;

Multi-family buildings may add ADUs up to 25% of the existing unit count (or at least one) and up to two detached; 
and

Single-family zoned lots can be developed with a JADU and ADU in addition to the primary residence (effectively 
allowing three (3) separate living units on each parcel zoned for single-family).
SB 13:

Property owner no longer must occupy the primary dwelling or the ADU (remains requirement for JADUs);

No impact fees for ADUs less than 750 square feet; otherwise fees are proportional to the size of primary dwelling; 

Cannot require correction of non-conforming zoning conditions as condition of approval; and

Allows owner to delay enforcement of certain building standards up to five years for building requirements that do 
not violate the Health and Safety Code.
Remaining Areas of Discretion for Local Agencies
The new state legislation has expressly limited the ability of local agencies to regulate ADUs and JADUs. Local agencies that 
haven’t already adopted an ordinance compliant with Government Code Section 65852.2 are required to default to the 
standards specified in state law for permitting ADUs. As of January 1, 2020, any local ordinance that conflicts with the 
existing and updated requirements specified in state law is rendered null and void. Local agencies can simply default to the 
state regulations or elect to adopt by local ordinance more permissive requirements than specified by the state.
Given the sweeping changes the new legislation brings, San Mateo is left with only a few remaining areas of discretion. 
Staff describes those areas of discretion and provides recommendations for City Council consideration and direction to 
staff in the seven discussion points below:
Building Size Limitations
State law provides a property owner the right to construct an attached or detached ADU of at least 800 square feet in size, 
and of at least 16 feet in height with four-foot side and rear yard setbacks regardless of any local ordinance related to: 
minimum or maximum ADU size, proportionality to the proposed or existing primary dwelling, limits on lot coverage, floor 
area ratio, open space, or minimum lot size. This means a small 5,000 square-foot lot with a floor area ratio (FAR) of .50 
could have a maximum build-out of 3,300 square feet (2,500 square-foot house plus an 800 square-foot ADU), or .66 FAR 
as a result of this “by-right” provision. 
A local agency can establish by ordinance a maximum building size for attached or detached ADUs provided it is not less 
than 850 square feet for a studio or one bedroom, or 1,000 square feet for an ADU with two or more bedrooms. ADUs 
attached to an existing primary residence cannot exceed more than 50 percent of the existing primary dwelling’s floor 
area. Detached ADUs are permitted to be up to 1,200 square feet provided there is adequate floor area allowance on the 
lot. In specific scenarios when an existing or proposed single-family residence is being developed with both a JADU and a 
detached ADU, state regulations specify a local agency “may impose” conditions that limit that detached ADU to no more 
than 800 square feet in size and 16 feet in height. Should the aforementioned provisional conditions not be adopted, it 
would mean that a 5,000 square foot R1-C (single-family) lot has the potential to be developed with a 1,200 square-foot 
primary residence, of which 500 square-feet can be converted into a JADU, and up to a 1,200 square-foot detached ADU. 
Presuming the primary residence and ADU in this scenario are occupied by at least two to three adults in each dwelling, 
and one to two adults in the JADU, there is a realistic possibility of having at least five to eight adults with accompanying 
vehicles living on the same lot. 
Building Height
The new state law establishes that a local agency must allow a minimum building height of at least 16 feet for either an 
attached or detached ADU. It should be noted building height as defined in the municipal code is measured from existing 
grade to top of the building plate, rather than to the tallest roof ridge. Since ADUs can be created from conversions of 
232 of 282

--- page 233 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
existing accessory structures that sometimes may be built close to shared property lines (including no setbacks), the City 
may want to consider establishing ADU height restrictions or other objective standards to limit potential view and privacy 
impacts on neighboring properties given the new reduced side and rear yard setback requirements of four feet. 
Additionally, the City can consider whether to allow two-story detached ADUs as long as we allow a minimum height of 16 
feet.  
Parking Requirements
State requirements for off-street parking associated with ADU development has become increasingly lax with each update. 
State law specifies required off-street parking shall not exceed one parking space per ADU or per bedroom, whichever is 
less. However, a local agency can elect to reduce or eliminate parking requirements for any ADU located within its 
jurisdiction. It should be noted that state law now eliminates replacement parking when a garage or covered parking 
structure is demolished in conjunction with the construction of an ADU, or conversion of that parking structure into an 
ADU as was previously required. Additionally, Government Code Section 65852.2 (d)(1) exempts ADUs located within one-
half mile walking distance of any fixed-route bus stop or other transit stop from any imposed parking requirement. Given 
this exemption, the vast majority of residential zoned parcels in San Mateo would be exempt from providing the required 
off-street parking space due to the availability of public transit across the city. There is no parking requirement for JADUs. 
See Attachment 3 – Half-mile Walking Distance to Transit Proximity Map. 
Development/Impact Fees
SB 13 reduces impact fees associated with ADU development, and eliminates impact fees associated with JADU 
development, by creating a more equitable tiered fee structure that eliminates impact fees for ADUs less than 750 square 
feet and requires fees on larger ADUs to be charged proportionately in relation to the square footage of the primary 
dwelling. In order to charge proportional impact fees, the City would need to conduct a nexus fee study to determine the 
appropriate impact fee to charge for the ADU. In the absence of a fee nexus study, San Mateo does not currently apply 
traffic impact fees (TIF), park in-lieu fees, or water or sewer hook-up fees associated with ADU/JADU development.  The 
state Mitigation Fee Act requires that all new development pay its fair share so that the impacts of these ADUs on the 
need for public facilities (if any) will need to be studied.  If there are any unfunded impacts, other developments cannot be 
required to subsidize them and the City will need to make up the difference out of its General Fund. 
However, the City does charge a flat building permit fee of $2,819 for each ADU $1,275 for each JADU based on the actual 
cost of plan review and inspections. Should the City want to further incentivize ADU development, state law does not limit 
the authority of local agencies to adopt less restrictive requirements related to impact fees or project review fees. 
Objective Standards
Local agencies still have the limited ability to adopt objective standards as part of the ADU/JADU development 
requirements provided it does not conflict with state law. Examples of such objective development standards would be 
requiring matching exterior architectural materials and color patterns between the main house and the ADU, obscured 
glazing for windows along the side and rear facing elevations of two-story ADUs which are located within 20 feet of a 
neighboring dwelling on an abutting lot to ensure privacy, or requiring address markers for each ADU and JADU to be 
located along a street facing frontage for fire and safety purposes.
Prohibit Short-Term Rentals 
SB 13 prohibits short-term rentals (i.e. rental terms less than 30 days) of ADUs in the following scenarios: when an ADU is 
located within an existing or proposed single-family dwelling; when a city has adopted a condition that limits a detached 
ADU to 800 square feet when a JADU exists; or for ADUs in multi-family developments. However, state law does provide 
local agencies discretion to prohibit short-term rentals for all other ADU types (i.e. new or converted detached ADUs). The 
City may want to consider continuing the prohibition of short-term rentals for all ADUs, requiring the rental of an ADU be 
for a term longer than 30 days, as currently required in our local ordinance.  
Enforcement delay of existing unpermitted ADUs/JADUs
In addition to the waiver of impact fees, SB 13 also provides a provision where the property owner can request a five-year 
enforcement delay for unpermitted ADUs as long as the ADU meets health and safety standards. This statute is being 
233 of 282

--- page 234 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
interpreted as only applicable to violations of the building code (Title 23) and not to violations of the zoning code (Title 27). 
As of February 14, 2020, there are a total of 19 active cases for unpermitted ADUs in San Mateo. Fourteen (14) of these 
cases do not have health and safety concerns nor nonconforming zoning conditions, and therefore can be permitted or are 
eligible for the five-year deferral to bring the structure into building code compliance. Three (3) of the cases appear to 
have nonconforming zoning conditions such as setback or FAR violations but are otherwise also eligible for the code 
enforcement deferral. Two (2) of the cases have health and safety violations (e.g. no heat), but are eligible for the code 
enforcement deferral once the health and safety violations are resolved.  The City may want to consider provisions for 
permanent amnesty to allow the existing ADUs to remain in perpetuity, regardless of non-compliance to zoning and 
building code standards provided the ADUs meet health and safety considerations. 
Staff Efforts 
Staff recognizes informing and educating the public are fundamental components of encouraging ADU/JADU development.  
This was also provided as feedback from the Home for All Community Conversations.  Staff has been examining 
opportunities to incorporate new technology and refine processes to help make information and permitting more 
accessible and easier for homeowners. These efforts are classified into three general categories described below:
Technology
Staff has been working with Symbium, a company that develops software that makes it easier to visualize land use and 
zoning regulations. Staff is currently testing a beta version of Symbium’s BUILD for ADUs software specific to San Mateo. 
This is a highly intuitive web platform that provides interactive mapping and simplifies complicated regulations, including 
the state’s new ADU/JADU housing laws that will help citizens navigate the permitting process.  Once a new Ordinance is 
adopted, Symbium will update the application to meet San Mateo’s updated requirements. 
Information
Staff assessed existing ADU/JADU handout materials and related web pages to determine how the information could be 
more accessible and intuitively presented to the public. As a result, the previously separate ADU and JADU submittal 
checklists have been consolidated and combined with the standard building permit guide to provide an easy to read 
format of all the information necessary to submit a complete Building Permit application for an ADU or JADU in one 
document. 
Additionally, staff has refreshed its ADU/JADU one-stop webpage, which is now featured on the City’s homepage. The 
webpage summarizes key Planning, Building, Fire, and Public Works requirements associated with ADU/JADU 
development, as well as a property zoning look-up tool, development fees, and handout materials. 
Programs
Staff is looking into the possibility of developing innovative programs intended to provide homeowners a range of benefits, 
including expediting design and permitting timelines, and financial assistance for qualifying projects. The City may explore 
the possibility of working with architects and home builders on developing pre-approved ADU designs that meet general 
development standards and building code requirements. The pre-approved designs provide the homeowner with savings 
of both time and money by avoiding the sometimes lengthy plan review process and costs associated with architectural 
design and engineering drawings. 
The City may also study the feasibility of offering financial/funding assistance programs that would make building an ADU 
or JADU a more accessible option for homeowners, as well as a tool to add affordable housing stock in San Mateo. The City 
may study offering a fee waiver incentive whereby building permit and plan check fees (and other development impact 
fees) would be completely waived for units offering qualifying low-income households. The City may also investigate 
developing a loan program to qualifying residents that would help provide homeowners with necessary funding.
Upcoming 2020 State Law Changes
There are two bills that attempt to clean up some of the 2019 legislation (AB 953 and SB 773). As of February 6, 2020, the 
changes clarify that 1) if a jurisdiction has not acted on a completed application in 60 days, it is deemed approved; and 2) a 
homeowner can have both an ADU and a JADU under a wider range of special provisions. It also fixes a typo that said 
234 of 282

--- page 235 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
jurisdictions "may shall" approve multifamily ADUs, clarifying that jurisdictions shall approve them. Finally, it clarifies that 
the ADU rules are of state-wide concern. All of the other rules are unchanged.
Staff Recommendations for City Council
Staff will be preparing amendments to the Zoning Code consistent with the mandatory requirements of state law.  
However, as noted above, there remain some limited areas in which the City may exercise discretion in determining these 
requirements. Staff requests City Council direction on the following questions and options for Council’s consideration: 
1.
Should the City increase the exempted minimum “by-right” ADU square footage provision from 800 square feet 
up to 1,200 square feet? Staff recommends defaulting to the state specified “by-right” exemption of 800 square 
feet, or studying a tiered increase up to 1,200 square feet and limiting all ADUs to a maximum of two bedrooms. 
2.
Should the City limit the size of an ADU to 800 square feet when both an ADU and JADU would exist on the same 
lot? Staff recommends the City Council adopt this provisional condition to limit the size of ADUs on any single 
parcel that also has a JADU. 
3.
Should the City refer to the State statute for maximum building height of 16 feet, or study alternative building 
height restrictions or other objective standards? Staff recommends developing ADU building height maximums 
and objective standards compliant with the State requirements to help mitigate potential view, shade, and privacy 
impacts on neighboring properties. 
4.
Should the City consider amending the Zoning Code to accommodate more flexible off-street parking standards 
(i.e. wider driveways) for lots with an ADU or JADU? Staff recommends considering exemptions to parking 
requirements and front yard paving to account for additional parking needs associated with ADU/JADU 
development. 
5.
Should the City consider impact fees for ADU/JADU’s and conduct a nexus study? Given the limited scope of 
charging impact fees and the goal to further incentivize ADU/JADU construction, staff recommends codifying that 
no impact fees be charged for ADU’s, regardless of size, and continue to charge the flat fee building permit to 
cover the cost of plan review and inspections. 
6.
Should the City develop objective design standards for ADU/JADUs? Staff recommends that objective design 
standards related to architectural materials, reducing privacy impacts, and addressing fire and safety concerns be 
incorporated into the ADU/JADU Ordinance. 
7.
Does the City Council want to continue prohibiting short-term rentals for all ADU’s? Staff recommends continuing 
to prohibit short-term rentals by requiring the rental terms for all new or converted detached ADUs to be no less 
than 30 days as already required by local ordinance.
8.
Does the City Council want to consider provisions for permanent amnesty to allow existing illegal non-conforming 
ADU’s to remain in perpetuity? Staff recommends preparing provisions for permanent amnesty to allow the 
existing ADUs to remain in perpetuity, regardless of non-compliance to zoning and building code standards 
provided the ADUs meet health and safety considerations.
BUDGET IMPACT:
Costs associated with necessary Code amendments, including staff time and Symbium’s BUILD, are covered under the 
Community Development Department’s existing operating budget.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a 
physical change in the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
235 of 282

--- page 236 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – April 27, 2019 Community Conversation 
Att 2 – May 18, 2019 Community Conversation 
Att 3 – Half-mile Walking Distance to Transit Proximity Map
Att 4 – Public Comments Received
STAFF CONTACT
Phillip Brennan, Associate Planner
pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7218
Kohar Kojayan, Community Development Director
kkojayan@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7207
236 of 282

--- page 237 ---
4 
Summary of Recent Changes to Accessory 
Dwelling Unit Laws 
In Government Code Section 65852.150, the 
California Legislature found and declared that, among 
other things, allowing accessory dwelling units 
(ADUs) in zones that allow single-family and 
multifamily uses provides additional rental housing, 
and is an essential component in addressing 
California’s housing needs. Over the years, ADU law 
has been revised to improve its effectiveness at 
creating more housing units. Changes to ADU laws 
effective January 1, 2020, further reduce barriers, 
better streamline approval processes, and expand 
capacity to accommodate the development of ADUs 
and junior accessory dwelling units (JADUs).  
ADUs are a unique opportunity to address a variety of 
housing needs and provide affordable housing 
options for family members, friends, students, the elderly, in-home health care providers, people with disabilities, 
and others. Further, ADUs offer an opportunity to maximize and integrate housing choices within existing 
neighborhoods.  
Within this context, the California Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) has prepared this 
guidance to assist local governments, homeowners, architects, and the general public in encouraging the 
development of ADUs. Please see Attachment 1 for the complete statutory changes. The following is a summary of 
legislation since 2019 that amended ADU law and became effective as of January 1, 2020. 
AB 68 (Ting), AB 881 (Bloom), and SB 13 (Wieckowski) 
Chapter 653, Statutes of 2019 (Senate Bill 13, Section 3), Chapter 655, Statutes of 2019 (Assembly Bill 68, 
Section 2) and Chapter 659 (Assembly Bill 881, Section 1.5 and 2.5) build upon recent changes to ADU and JADU 
law (Government Code Sections 65852.2, 65852.22 and further address barriers to the development of ADUs and 
JADUs) (Attachment A includes the combined ADU statute updates from SB 13, AB 68 and AB 881.) 
This recent legislation, among other changes, addresses the following: 
• 
Prohibits local agencies from including in development standards for ADUs requirements on minimum lot 
size (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(1)(B)(i)). 
• 
Clarifies areas designated by local agencies for ADUs may be based on the adequacy of water and sewer 
services as well as impacts on traffic flow and public safety (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(1)(A)). 
• 
Eliminates all owner-occupancy requirements by local agencies for ADUs approved between January 1, 
2020 and January 1, 2025 ((Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(6)). 
• 
Prohibits a local agency from establishing a maximum size of an ADU of less than 850 square feet, or 
1,000 square feet if the ADU contains more than one bedroom and requires approval of a permit to build 
an ADU of up to 800 square feet ((Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (c)(2)(B) & (C)). 
237 of 282

--- page 238 ---
5 
• 
Clarifies that when ADUs are created through the conversion of a garage, carport or covered parking 
structure, replacement off-street parking spaces cannot be required by the local agency (Gov. Code, § 
65852.2, subd. (a)(1)(D)(xi)). 
• 
Reduces the maximum ADU and JADU application review time from 120 days to 60 days (Gov. Code, § 
65852.2, subd. (a)(3) and (b)). 
• 
Clarifies that “public transit” includes various means of transportation that charge set fees, run on fixed 
routes and are available to the public (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (j)(10)). 
• 
Establishes impact fee exemptions and limitations based on the size of the ADU. ADUs up to 750 square 
feet are exempt from impact fees (Government Code Section 65852.2, Subdivision (f)(3)); ADUs that are 
750 square feet or larger may be charged impact fees but only such fees that are proportional in size (by 
square foot) to those for the primary dwelling unit (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (f)(3)). 
• 
Defines an “accessory structure” to mean a structure that is accessory or incidental to a dwelling on the 
same lot as the ADU (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (j)(2)). 
• 
Authorizes HCD to notify the local agency if HCD finds that their ADU ordinance is not in compliance with 
state law (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (h)(2)). 
• 
Clarifies that a local agency may identify an ADU or JADU as an adequate site to satisfy RHNA housing 
needs (Gov. Code § 65583.1, subd. (a), and § 65852.2, subd. (m)). 
• 
Permits JADUs even where a local agency has not adopted an ordinance expressly authorizing them 
(Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (a)(3), (b), and (e)). 
• 
Allows a permitted JADU to be constructed within the walls of the proposed or existing single-family 
residence and eliminates the required inclusion of an existing bedroom or an interior entry into the single-
family residence (Gov. Code § 65852.22, subd. (a)(4); Former Gov. Code § 65852.22, subd. (a)(5)). 
• 
Requires, upon application and approval, a local agency to delay enforcement against a qualifying 
substandard ADU for five (5) years to allow the owner to correct the violation, so long as the violation is not 
a health and safety issue, as determined by the enforcement agency (Gov. Code, § 65852.2, subd. (n); 
Health and Safety Code § 17980.12). 
 
AB 587 (Friedman), AB 670 (Friedman), and AB 671 (Friedman) 
In addition to the legislation listed above, AB 587 (Chapter 657, Statutes of 2019), AB 670 (Chapter 178, Statutes 
of 2019), and AB 671 (Chapter 658, Statutes of 2019) also have an impact on state ADU law, particularly through 
Health and Safety Code Section 17980.12. These recent pieces of legislation, among other changes, address the 
following: 
• 
AB 587 creates a narrow exemption to the prohibition for ADUs to be sold or otherwise conveyed 
separately from the primary dwelling by allowing deed-restricted sales to occur if the local agency adopts 
an ordinance. To qualify, the primary dwelling and the ADU are to be built by a qualified nonprofit 
corporation whose mission is to provide units to low-income households (Gov. Code § 65852.26). 
• 
AB 670 provides that covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) that either effectively prohibit or 
unreasonably restrict the construction or use of an ADU or JADU on a lot zoned for single-family 
residential use are void and unenforceable (Civil Code Section 4751). 
238 of 282

--- page 239 ---
6 
• 
AB 671 requires local agencies’ housing elements to include a plan that incentivizes and promotes the 
creation of ADUs that can offer affordable rents for very low, low-, or moderate-income households and 
requires HCD to develop a list of state grants and financial incentives in connection with the planning, 
construction and operation of affordable ADUs. (Gov. Code § 65583; Health and Safety Code § 50504.5) 
 
 
239 of 282

--- page 240 ---
From:
T T
To:
Phillip Brennan
Subject:
ADU Ordinance - community input
Date:
Monday, August 03, 2020 3:40:21 PM
Attachments:
image009.png
Hi Philip -
Thank you for your work spearheading the ADU ordinance update. You mentioned that you were seeking community input on
the direction of the ordinance so I wanted to provide you with our input. 
The addition of ADU units should benefit San Mateo City and its' residents in multiple ways:
1) Increase in housing stock = greater supply, lower overall rental pricing = more affordable units across the City / Bay Area
2) Increase in property values for homeowners
3) Increase in property tax revenue for the City
The state of California has clearly identified ADUs as a positive opportunity, if San Mateo deems it so as well, then the goal
should be to remove unnecessary challenges to the completion of ADUs. 
In our conversations thus far, there have been 2 issues that have come to my attention as potential stumbling blocks and that I
would like to see modified in the new ordinance.
1) Architectural style requirements - the current code requires the ADU to be of the same architectural style of the main house.
I have no issue with a desire to have the ADU complement the design of the main house, but I do think it would allow for
better design to at least loosen this requirement so that the design is complementary and not necessarily exactly the same.
Having buildings that speak to each other and play off design concepts is architecturally intriguing and can lead to better
design.  
However, my main issue with the architectural style requirement is one of timing. We were looking to build an ADU and live
in it while we remodel the main house. Per the current code, we need to design the ADU to look like our existing 60's house.
This doesn't make sense since we would then remodel the main house and then it would not match with the ADU? Or we then
have to spend tens of thousands extra on renting out a house during construction even though building the ADU first would
solve that? We have been told that we can not apply for both the ADU and main house remodel concurrently to solve this
requirement. This seems like an unnecessary barrier when the end result would be a remodeled main house and ADU that are
of the same architectural style.
I would propose that this requirement be removed completely or, at least, modified to allow for construction of an ADU and a
subsequent house remodel.  
2) Location of the ADU: the current code requirement says that the entrance to the ADU cannot be located closer to the street
than the primary residence. For houses that wish to convert a garage to a J-ADU (where some garages may be in front of the
front door) and for atypical lots, this may prohibit ADUs / J-ADUs that would otherwise fit the parcel and neighborhood well.
I believe that the location of the main house front door and ADU front door is not a factor in whether the design is
aesthetically appealing or appropriate for a parcel or neighborhood. An ADU door could be designed to be unobtrusive even if
it were in front of the main door. On a deep lot with a house set far back, an ADU could be located in front of a house but be
placed to minimize visibility from the street and not impact a neighborhood at all. As such, I would like to see this requirement
removed. 
Thanks again for your time and stay safe!
Cheers,
Tracy
On Wed, Jul 8, 2020 at 5:13 PM Phillip Brennan <pbrennan@cityofsanmateo.org> wrote:
240 of 282

--- page 241 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  12
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4424
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
COVID-19 Update
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive update on operational impacts and other City efforts related to COVID-19 and confirm rules and regulations issued 
by the City Manager acting as the Director of Emergency Services in response to declared emergency.
BACKGROUND:
On March 4, 2020, the Governor proclaimed a state of emergency in response to the outbreak of respiratory illness due to 
a novel coronavirus now referred to as COVID-19. As a consequence of this proclamation the City Manager, acting as the 
City’s Director of Emergency Services, was authorized to make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably 
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency. 
The City Council declared a local health emergency on March 16, 2020. In addition to positioning the City for potential 
mutual aid and cost recovery opportunities, the emergency proclamation also provides the City Manager broader 
authority to be able to expeditiously address issues related to the emergency. With that said, actions taken by the City 
Manager outside of the general authority of the duties provided for in the City Charter are subject to confirmation by 
Council as soon as practicable. 
State and local emergency proclamations are still in effect, and currently the State is under the “Blueprint for a Safer 
Economy” framework for determining restrictions on businesses and activities. San Mateo County has been in the red tier 
(substantial COVID-19 transmission) since February 24th. In the red tier, some non-essential indoor business operations 
are closed and/or have capacity restrictions.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for receiving this informational report. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
241 of 282

--- page 242 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
242 of 282

--- page 243 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  13
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4371
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Markers for Places of Public Interest in the Public Right of Way – Resolution and Ordinance Introduction 
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Resolution to adopt a policy on Markers for Places of Public Interest in the Public Right of Way and introduce an 
Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.08.020 "Placing Certain Objects in the Public Right of Way" 
to allow for public markers and making other necessary minor revisions to the chapter. 
BACKGROUND:
In March 2020, the City Council moved to support a proposal from the nonprofit San Mateo Parks Foundation to 
commemorate the former Ching Lee Laundry with a marker in the public right of way at First Avenue and Claremont 
Street. At that time, the Council delayed a decision on adopting a policy that would establish a clear process and objective 
criteria regarding markers in the public right of way. 
Since then, staff has worked with the Parks Foundation to proceed with accepting a donated marker in the form and 
location as proposed. While that work is underway, staff recommends the Council reconsider a policy on Markers for 
Places of Public Interest in the Public Right of Way to formalize the process for approving privately-financed markers and 
address First Amendment considerations. Staff has adjusted the previous proposed policy to incorporate Council’s 
feedback by removing preferred design guidelines while maintaining objective review criteria. A proposed resolution and 
the draft policy are included as Attachment 1.
Staff also identified a municipal code amendment for Chapter 17.08.020 “Placing Certain Objects in the Public Right of 
Way” to support installation of such markers. Staff recommends including in the ordinance other general code clean up 
and provisions to allow for restaurant seating areas, as approved by Council resolution, as is currently in place with the 
Temporary Outdoor Dining Guidelines.
Proposed Policy on Markers for Places of Public Interest in the Public Right of Way
The City has an interest in acknowledging and commemorating San Mateo’s culture and history by recognizing places of 
significant interest. The proposed policy covers markers in the public right of way, such as on streets or sidewalks. This 
policy does not affect art installations or markers in City parks, on City buildings, or on private property. Whenever 
feasible, those interested in commemorating a site of public interest are encouraged to install a marker within the 
property being recognized and not within the public right of way. Markers affixed directly to a building are covered under 
the City’s sign ordinance.
Because City streets and sidewalks are a traditional public forum, First Amendment considerations are implicated when 
decisions are made regarding signage in the public right of way and those decisions are subject to “strict scrutiny” 
pursuant to the Free Speech clause of the First Amendment.   However, there is an exception for “government 
243 of 282

--- page 244 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
speech.”(Pleasant Grove City v. Summum 555 U.S. 460 (2009).)  The Summum court held that acceptance and installation 
of permanent monuments on public property is a form of “government speech” that is immune from First Amendment 
review.  The Summum court noted that objective selection criteria are helpful to establishing that a city council has final 
approval authority over a marker and that the marker is therefore a form of “government speech.” The proposed policy 
includes draft selection criteria for the Council’s consideration. 
The draft policy outlines five qualifying criteria proposals must meet:
(1) The site is a place of public interest or represents a person or organization whose contributions were significant to 
San Mateo’s heritage.
(2) The site is not currently marked and would likely not be eligible for the state or national registry.
(3) The proposed marker is within the public right of way controlled by the City. 
(4) The marker is within public view and its placement conforms with the Americans with Disability Act standards.
(5) The marker is privately funded or the Council is willing to commit pubic funds.  
If Council agrees with these selection criteria, staff recommends adoption of the proposed Resolution establishing this 
policy identifying the parameters under which the installation of privately-financed monuments within the City’s public 
right of way will be considered. A policy would provide Council with the final decision about what to commemorate in the 
public right of way and would help to establish this signage as “government speech.”
Municipal Code Amendments
Staff has prepared an Ordinance to amend the San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 17.08.020 "Placing Certain Objects in 
the Public Right of Way." The proposed amendments include adding a section to allow signs placed by the City to identify a 
place of public interest in the public right of way. In addition, the Ordinance cleans up some outdated references in this 
code section; replacing reference to “Superintendent of Streets” and “City Engineer” with “Public Works Director or 
Designee,” and including a provision in the restaurant seating section to reference outdoor dining guidelines as adopted by 
City Council resolution. This change is being proposed now in reference to the City’s existing Temporary Outdoor Dining 
Guidelines. Any future policy changes regarding outdoor dining will be considered at a later date. An ordinance and 
proposed Municipal Code amendments are included as Attachment 2.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact for taking this action.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it can be seen with certainty that it will not cause a physical change in 
the environment. (Public Resources Code Section 21065.)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution 
Att 2 – Proposed Ordinance 
STAFF CONTACT
Samantha Weigel, Communications Manager 
sweigel@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7005
244 of 282

--- page 245 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
APPROVING A POLICY REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF MARKERS FOR PLACES OF PUBLIC INTEREST IN THE 
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
WHEREAS, the City Council has an interest in acknowledging and commemorating San Mateo’s culture 
and history by recognizing places of significant public interest; and
WHEREAS, the City has received a proposal for installation of marker signifying a place of public interest 
in the public right of way; and
WHEREAS, streets and sidewalks are generally considered to be traditional public forums subject to First 
Amendment jurisprudence; and
WHEREAS, markers and other messages installed by the City on public property constitute “Government 
Speech” and are therefore not subject to First Amendment considerations; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to adopt objective criteria for the consideration of installation of public 
markers in the right of way as “Government Speech;” and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The attached San Mateo City Council Policy on Markers for Places of Public Interest in the Public 
Right of Way is approved.
245 of 282

--- page 246 ---
San Mateo City Council Policy on
Markers for Places of Public Interest in the Public Right of Way
Approved by the San Mateo City Council on _____, 2021.
Introduction
The City may, from time to time, decide to install permanent outdoor markers in City right of way to 
commemorate persons or events of note (“Government Speech”).  By placing markers in City right of way, the 
City intends to engage in Government Speech and does not intend to open a public forum for free speech 
activity.  The San Mateo City Council is responsible for approving markers commemorating places of public 
interest in the public right of way. The purpose of this Policy is to establish criteria and guidelines for the 
installation of permanent outdoor markers in the public right of way.  
Policy
The City Council has an interest in acknowledging and commemorating San Mateo’s culture and history by 
recognizing places of significant public interest.  Marker programs are designed to be selective and based upon 
objective criteria, while still allowing a measure of flexibility.  The City may decide, in its sole discretion, to reject 
proposals and reserves the right to determine appropriate sites.
A. Evaluation Criteria
The City Council will review all complete applications and allow an applicant to make a presentation 
at a regularly scheduled meeting.
Qualifying Criteria (Applications must meet all five of the following):
1.
Site is one of the following:
i.
A place of public interest, such as a historic property, area of cultural significance, or 
location of a historically significant event. 
ii.
Represents an organization or person whose contributions were significant to the 
historical heritage of San Mateo. 
2.
Site is not currently marked by any other marker or any other program, either public or 
private. Site would probably not be eligible for the state or national registry.
3.
Proposed marker location is in the City’s public right of way. If in the State right of way, the 
State’s approval will be required before installation.
4.
Proposed marker must be in public view and comply with the Americans with Disability Act 
standards.
5.
Proposed marker is privately funded or the Council is willing to commit public funds 
contingent on availability. 
B.
Inscriptions and Design
All final marker designs will be reviewed and considered by Council for approval. City staff will work with 
the applicant on the proposed draft inscription and design to ensure significant information has been 
included. The inscriptions should not editorialize or speculate; and shall only include widely-
acknowledged historical facts. Additionally, space limitations due to the size and configuration of the 
markers require concise statements. Appropriate images or graphics may be included. 
246 of 282

--- page 247 ---
C.
Approval Process
1.
Sponsors must submit an application to the City Manager’s Office. City staff will work with 
the applicant to ensure the proposed marker is in conformance with the Council’s policy. 
Applicant must provide estimated costs for manufacturing and installation of marker, and 
information on how it will be funded.
2.
The City Council will consider the application during a regularly scheduled meeting and 
sponsors may make a 5-minute presentation. 
3.
A simple majority approval by City Council is required to approve a marker. 
D. Property and Maintenance 
Upon installation, a marker in the City of San Mateo public right of way immediately becomes property 
of the City. The City will be responsible for overseeing the installation and reasonable maintenance 
including graffiti removal of the marker. The City may remove or relocate, and shall otherwise have sole 
control over, any marker in the public right of way. A replacement marker, if any, must be funded by the 
donor.
247 of 282

--- page 248 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2021)
APPROVING A POLICY REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF MARKERS FOR PLACES OF PUBLIC INTEREST IN THE 
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
WHEREAS, the City Council has an interest in acknowledging and commemorating San Mateo’s culture 
and history by recognizing places of significant public interest; and
WHEREAS, the City has received a proposal for installation of marker signifying a place of public interest 
in the public right of way; and
WHEREAS, streets and sidewalks are generally considered to be traditional public forums subject to First 
Amendment jurisprudence; and
WHEREAS, markers and other messages installed by the City on public property constitute “Government 
Speech” and are therefore not subject to First Amendment considerations; and
WHEREAS, the City wishes to adopt objective criteria for the consideration of installation of public 
markers in the right of way as “Government Speech;” and
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that: 
1.
The attached San Mateo City Council Policy on Markers for Places of Public Interest in the Public 
Right of Way is approved.
248 of 282

--- page 249 ---
San Mateo City Council Policy on
Markers for Places of Public Interest in the Public Right of Way
Approved by the San Mateo City Council on _____, 2021.
Introduction
The City may, from time to time, decide to install permanent outdoor markers in City right of way to 
commemorate persons or events of note (“Government Speech”).  By placing markers in City right of way, the 
City intends to engage in Government Speech and does not intend to open a public forum for free speech 
activity.  The San Mateo City Council is responsible for approving markers commemorating places of public 
interest in the public right of way. The purpose of this Policy is to establish criteria and guidelines for the 
installation of permanent outdoor markers in the public right of way.  
Policy
The City Council has an interest in acknowledging and commemorating San Mateo’s culture and history by 
recognizing places of significant public interest.  Marker programs are designed to be selective and based upon 
objective criteria, while still allowing a measure of flexibility.  The City may decide, in its sole discretion, to reject 
proposals and reserves the right to determine appropriate sites.
A. Evaluation Criteria
The City Council will review all complete applications and allow an applicant to make a presentation 
at a regularly scheduled meeting.
Qualifying Criteria (Applications must meet all five of the following):
1.
Site is one of the following:
i.
A place of public interest, such as a historic property, area of cultural significance, or 
location of a historically significant event. 
ii.
Represents an organization or person whose contributions were significant to the 
historical heritage of San Mateo. 
2.
Site is not currently marked by any other marker or any other program, either public or 
private. Site would probably not be eligible for the state or national registry.
3.
Proposed marker location is in the City’s public right of way. If in the State right of way, the 
State’s approval will be required before installation.
4.
Proposed marker must be in public view and comply with the Americans with Disability Act 
standards.
5.
Proposed marker is privately funded or the Council is willing to commit public funds 
contingent on availability. 
B.
Inscriptions and Design
All final marker designs will be reviewed and considered by Council for approval. City staff will work with 
the applicant on the proposed draft inscription and design to ensure significant information has been 
included. The inscriptions should not editorialize or speculate; and shall only include widely-
acknowledged historical facts. Additionally, space limitations due to the size and configuration of the 
markers require concise statements. Appropriate images or graphics may be included. 
249 of 282

--- page 250 ---
C.
Approval Process
1.
Sponsors must submit an application to the City Manager’s Office. City staff will work with 
the applicant to ensure the proposed marker is in conformance with the Council’s policy. 
Applicant must provide estimated costs for manufacturing and installation of marker, and 
information on how it will be funded.
2.
The City Council will consider the application during a regularly scheduled meeting and 
sponsors may make a 5-minute presentation. 
3.
A simple majority approval by City Council is required to approve a marker. 
D. Property and Maintenance 
Upon installation, a marker in the City of San Mateo public right of way immediately becomes property 
of the City. The City will be responsible for overseeing the installation and reasonable maintenance 
including graffiti removal of the marker. The City may remove or relocate, and shall otherwise have sole 
control over, any marker in the public right of way. A replacement marker, if any, must be funded by the 
donor.
250 of 282

--- page 251 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  14
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4328
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
Housing Successor Agency and Housing Element Annual Progress Reports – Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Housing Successor Agency Report and the Housing Element Annual Progress Report as submitted to the State
Department of Housing and Community Development.
BACKGROUND:
Attached is a copy of the 2019-20 Housing Successor Annual Report, as well as the 2020 Housing Element Annual Progress 
Report. 
The Housing Successor Report has been prepared pursuant to California Health and Safety Code Section 34176.1(f). The 
report provides details of the housing funds, assets, and activities of the City of San Mateo acting as the Housing Successor 
Agency of the former Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Mateo (see Attachment 1).
The Housing Element Annual Progress Report has been prepared pursuant to California Government Code Section 65400 
and is presented as Attachment 2. This is the fifth annual report on the City’s 2015-2023 Housing Element. The report 
includes the following information:
Progress report on implementation of the Housing Element programs
Progress in meeting our share of regional housing needs assessment (RHNA) by income level
Information on the types of housing units that were issued building permits, as well as those that were completed
Information on number of planning applications submitted, as well as those that were approved.
Attachment 2 is the required State report form, which consists of numerous columns, making parts of it difficult to read, 
especially Table A-2. The table below summarizes the key data as to the number of housing units and their affordability 
levels included in planning applications submitted, deemed complete and/or approved in 2020, as well as building permits 
issued and/or completed. Planning applications submitted but not deemed complete are not included in this report.
The City did not have anything to report in Tables C, E, F, G, and H.
251 of 282

--- page 252 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Very Low 
Low
Moderate
Above 
Moderate 
Total
Report 
Table
Planning Applications
Proposed Units Submitted in 2020
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Units Submitted
180
145
0
1252
1577
A
  Units Disproved
0
0
0
0
0
A
Total Units Approved During 2020 
Regardless of Application Date 
(may also be included above) 
180
145
0
1155
1480
A-2
Building Permits
Permit Issued
3
1
0
92
96
A-2
Completed Cert of Occupancy
99
17
0
487
603
A-2
Tables A and A-2 also indicate what type of housing units are approved and built. This year 52 accessory dwelling units 
(ADU’S) were issued building permits and 35 ADU’s were completed. This is compared to 45 ADU permits issued and 
21 completed in 2019.
Table B of Attachment 2 shows the progress of housing units by affordability level as defined by issuance of building 
permits for the first 5 years of the 8-year Housing Element 2015-2023. The City has reached 59% of the goal for total 
housing units and 15% of its affordable housing allocation.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact for this item.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
These reports are not a project subject to CEQA, because they are an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – 2019-20 Housing Successor Annual Report
Att 2 – 2020 Housing Element Annual Progress Report
STAFF CONTACT
Sandra Council, Housing Manager
scouncil@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7223
252 of 282

--- page 253 ---
Page 1 of 4
Housing Successor Annual Report 2019-20
 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
HOUSING SUCCESSOR ANNUAL REPORT
LOW AND MODERATE INCOME HOUSING ASSET FUND 31
FISCAL YEAR 2019-2020
This Housing Successor Annual Report (Report) for the Fund 31 Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Fund 
(LMIHAF) has been prepared pursuant to California Health and Safety Code Section 34176.1(f). The purpose of 
this Report is to provide the governing body of the Housing Successor an annual report on the housing assets 
and activities of the City of San Mateo acting as the Housing Successor of the former Redevelopment Agency of 
the City of San Mateo under Part 1.85, Division 24 of the California Health and Safety Code, in particular sections 
34176 and 34176.1 (the Dissolution Law) for the fiscal year July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020. 
An independent financial audit of the Low and Moderate Income Housing Asset Fund for Fiscal Year 2019-20 was 
prepared by Badawi and Associates as part of the annual audit for the City of San Mateo. The financial audit was 
submitted and approved by the City Council at its December 7, 2020 meeting and is separate from this annual 
summary report. The following Report conforms with Sections 1 through 11, of Section 34176.1(f) of the 
Dissolution Law: 
1)
Amount Deposited into LMIHAF: Total amount of funds deposited into the LMIHAF during the Fiscal Year. 
Any amounts deposited for items listed on the Recognized Obligation Payment Schedule (ROPS) must be 
distinguished from the other amounts deposited. Also, loan repayments received to meet former obligations 
to the Supplemental Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund (SERAF) are listed separately.
Amount Deposited in LMIHAF
 
Interest Earnings
136,854
Misc Revenue
0
Loan Repayment Principal
147,763
Loan Repayment Interest
243,124
Sub total Revenues
527,741
Deposits Received for the Payment of ROPS Enforceable Obligations
N/A
SERAF Repayments
N/A
Total LMIHAF Deposits 7/1/19 to 6/30/20
527,741
2)
Ending Balance of LMIHAF: Statement of the balance in the LMIHAF as of the close of the Fiscal Year. Any 
amounts deposited for items listed on the ROPS must be distinguished from the other amounts deposited. 
Fund Balance
 
Fund Balance 6/30/20
3,420,999
Funds Reserved for ROPS Obligations
N/A
Funds Reserved for Executed Housing Commitments
860,924
Unrestricted Fund Balance 6/30/20
2,560,075
253 of 282

--- page 254 ---
Page 2 of 4
Housing Successor Annual Report 2019-20
3)
Statutory Value of Assets Owned by Housing Successor: The statutory value of real property owned by the 
Housing Successor, the value of loans and grants receivables, and the sum of these two amounts. 
Under the Dissolution Law and for purposes of this Report, the “statutory value of real property” means the 
value of properties formerly held by the former redevelopment agency prior to 2/1/2012 as listed on the 
housing asset transfer schedule approved by the Department of Finance (DOF) and the purchase price of 
properties purchased by the Housing Successor after 2/1/2012. 
Assets
 
Value of Real Property 
87,120 
Value of Loans and Grants Receivable
34,135,111
Statutory Value of Housing Assets
34,222,231
4)
Description of Expenditures from LMIHAF: Description of the expenditures made from the LMIHAF during 
the Fiscal Year by category.  Also describe any loan repayments of former RDA to City in accordance with 
Section 34191.4 (b)(3)9A)
Expenditures
 
Monitoring/Preserving Existing Affordable Housing /Administration 
100,161
Homeless Prevention/Rapid Rehousing 
0
Affordable Housing Development
0
Total LMIHAF Expenditures 7/1/2018 to 6/30/2019
100,161
 
Cap on Administration Expenditures 
(2% of Statutory Value of Assets or $220,400 whichever is greater)
684,445
Repayment of Loan between City and former RDA
N/A
Administrative expenses are well below the cap of $684,445. 
5)
Description of Transfers: Description of transfers, if any, to another housing successor agency made in 
previous fiscal year(s), including whether the funds are unencumbered and the status of projects, if any, for 
which the transferred LMIHAF will be used. 
The Housing Successor did not make any LMIHAF transfers to other housing successor(s) under Section 
34176.1(c)(2) during the Fiscal Year. 
6)
Project Descriptions: Description of any project for which the Housing Successor receives or holds property 
tax revenue pursuant to the ROPS and the status of that project. 
The Housing Successor has no further ROPS obligations or funds held.
7)
Description of Outstanding Obligations under Section 33413: Describes the outstanding inclusionary and 
replacement housing obligations, if any, under Section 33413 that remained outstanding prior to dissolution 
of the former redevelopment agency as of February 1, 2012, along with the Housing Successor’s progress in 
254 of 282

--- page 255 ---
Page 3 of 4
Housing Successor Annual Report 2019-20
meeting those prior obligations, if any, of the former redevelopment agency and how the Housing Successor 
plans to meet unmet obligations, if any. 
There are no unmet inclusionary or replacement housing obligations from the former redevelopment agency.
  
8)
Properties Acquired :The following provides a status update on the project(s) for properties that have been 
acquired by the Housing Successor using LMIHAF on or after February 1, 2012: 
No properties have been acquired by the Housing Successor after February 1, 2012. 
9)
Income Targeting: Description of LMIHAF expenditures by income restriction for a five-year period and 
whether the statutory thresholds have been met.
Development of housing funded by the LMIHAF must be affordable to and occupied by households earning 
80% or less of the Area Median Income (AMI).  

A minimum of 30% of the funds must be expended on the housing development for households 
earning 30% or less of AMI.

A maximum of 20% of the funds may be expended on housing development for households earning 
between 60-80% of AMI.
Five Year Income Targeting for LMIHAF Expenditures
Five Year Period
 30% AMI 
31-60% AMI
61-80% AMI
Total 
 7/1/15 to 6/30/16
0
147,500
442,500
590,000
 7/1/16 to 6/30/17
 0
0 
0 
0
 7/1/17 to 6/30/18
 0
0 
0 
0 
 7/1/18 to 6/30/19
320,000
1,680,000
2,000,000
 7/1/19 to 6/30/20
0
0
0
0
Total
320,000
1,827,500
442,500
2,590,000
% of Total 
12%
71%
17%
100%
Minimum Required %
30%
 
 
 
Maximum Allowed %
 
 
20%
 
The statutory threshold for LMIHAF expenditures for households less than 30% AMI has not yet been reached. 
However, LMIHAF funds will be used specifically for the 30% AMI units at the Downtown Opportunity Sites 
(Kiku Crossing) housing complex that will serve a range of incomes up to 80% AMI. The threshold that caps 
expenditures for households in the 60-80% AMI category is met and will remain so when the funds are spent 
for the DT Sites in FY 21-22.
255 of 282

--- page 256 ---
Page 4 of 4
Housing Successor Annual Report 2019-20
10) Senior Housing: Percentage of deed-restricted senior rental housing units assisted individually or jointly by 
the Housing Successor, its former Redevelopment Agency, and its host jurisdiction within the previous 10 
years in relation to the aggregate number of units of all deed-restricted rental housing assisted within the 
same time period cannot exceed 50%. 
Senior Housing Assisted by City of San Mateo RDA or LMIHAF
 
No of Senior Rental Units Assisted July 2010 to June 2020
0
No of Total Rental Units Assisted July 2010 to June 2020
270
Senior Housing Percentage
0%
11) Excess Surplus: This section provides the amount of excess surplus in the LMIHAF, if any, the length of time 
that the Housing Successor has had excess surplus, and the Housing Successor’s plan for eliminating the 
excess surplus. 
Excess Surplus is defined in Section 34176.1(d) as an unencumbered amount in the account that exceeds the 
greater of one million dollars ($1,000,000) or the aggregate amount deposited into the account during the 
Housing Successor’s preceding four fiscal years, whichever is greater.
Excess Surplus
 
LMIHAF Deposits 7/1/2016 - 6/30/2017
538,774
LMIHAF Deposits 7/1/2017- 6/30/2018
1,285,941
LMIHAF Deposits 7/1/2018- 6/30/2019
554,309
LMIHAF Deposits 7/1/2019- 6/30/2020
527,741
Total Deposits
2,906,765
 
Greater of $1,000,000 or previous four Fiscal Years Deposits
2,906,765
Available Unencumbered Balance 6/30/20
2,560,075
Excess Surplus
0
As of 6/30/20 there is no Excess Surplus.
12) Inventory of Homeownership Units:  Number of ownership units assisted with LMIHAF with covenants, the 
number of those lost to portfolio and the reason, and the amount of funds returned to fund as a result. 
Identify if an outside agency is contracted to manage ownership portfolio.
Ownership Units
 
Number of Units
76
Number of Units Lost to Portfolio
0
   
Reason:  
 
Funds returned to LMIHAF
0   
Housing Successor did not contract out management of ownership units to outside entity.  
256 of 282

--- page 257 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Reporting Year
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Date 
Application 
Submitted
Total 
Approved 
Units by 
Project
Total 
Disapproved 
Units by 
Project
Streamlining
Notes
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
10
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
Date 
Application 
Submitted 
(see 
instructions)
Very Low-
Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Very Low-
Income Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Low-
Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low-Income 
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate-
Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income   
Non Deed 
Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Total PROPOSED 
Units by Project
Total 
APPROVED 
Units by project
Total 
DISAPPROVED 
Units by Project
Was APPLICATION 
SUBMITTED 
Pursuant to GC 
65913.4(b)?  
(SB 35 
Streamlining)     
Notes+
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
180
0
145
0
0
0
1252
1287
1548
0
0
34183060
480 E 4TH AVE A
Kiku Crossing-City-
Owned Downtown 
Affordable Housing and 
Parking Garage
PA-2019-033
5+
R
6/22/2020
107
116
2
225
225
No
225-unit affordable housing 
project
035-243-090, -140, -
160, -170, -190, -
200, -210, -220
666 Concar Dr
Concar Passage Mixed 
Use Project
PA-2018-052
5+
R
7/16/2020
73
888
961
961
No
Total of 961 new units, 
including 73 affordable.
041-522-010, 041-
522-020, 041-521-
010, 041-521-020
2988 CAMPUS DR 
100
Peninsula Heights 
PA-2020-012
5+
O
11/12/2020
29
261
290
No 290 for-sale residential units. 
Tentative Map to merge four 
parcels into two.
33141040
146 N GRANT ST
146 N. Grant St, Duplex 
PA-2019-037
2 to 4
R
4/10/2020
1
1
1
No
Demo existing SFD; new 
duplex. Total of 1 net new unit.
33296030
711 S GRANT ST
711 S. Grant St, Duplex 
PA-2019-032
2 to 4
R
4/10/2020
1
1
1
No Demo existing SFD, construct 2
33145010
822 TILTON AVE
822 Tilton Ave. S
PA-2018-046
2 to 4
R
2/18/2020
1
1
1
No Add a new unit (SFD). Total of 
32092140
175 W. Bellevue Ave
175 Bellevue Ave.
PA-2020-031
ADU
R
10/30/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU
034286040
1120 PALM AVE
1120 PALM AVE
BD-2020-274568
ADU
R
1/6/2020
1
1
1
No Junior ADU conversion
032164080
421 VILLA TER
421 VILLA TER
BD-2020-274826
ADU
R
1/29/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
032132140
406 STATE ST
406 STATE ST
BD-2020-274822
ADU
R
1/29/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
035082100
810 GUILDFORD AVE
810 GUILDFORD AVE
BD-2020-274858
ADU
R
1/30/2020
1
1
0
No Legalize existing ADU conversio
033292210
807 S ELDORADO ST
807 S ELDORADO ST
BD-2020-274898
ADU
R
2/4/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
033134180
201 S HUMBOLDT ST
201 S HUMBOLDT ST
BD-2020-274950
ADU
R
2/7/2020
1
1
0
No New ADU conversion
039395230
137 30TH AVE
137 30TH AVE
BD-2020-274960
ADU
R
2/10/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
040053150
101 POINSETTIA AVE
101 POINSETTIA AVE
BD-2020-275013
ADU
R
2/14/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion of detached structu
040228170
4109 BRANSON DR
4109 BRANSON DR
BD-2020-275126
ADU
R
2/24/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion and addition to deta
040136050
309 CUPERTINO WAY
309 CUPERTINO WAY
BD-2020-275138
ADU
R
2/25/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
033354230
1417 HEMLOCK AVE
1417 HEMLOCK AVE
BD-2020-275237
ADU
R
3/3/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
035274220
1704 S NORFOLK ST
1704 S NORFOLK ST
BD-2020-275284
ADU
R
3/5/2020
1
1
1
No Legalize existing ADU conversio
033173200
1507 HURON AVE
1507 HURON AVE
BD-2020-275327
ADU
R
3/9/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
034383310
1305 MAPLE ST
1305 MAPLE ST
BD-2020-275360
ADU
R
3/11/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
029312120
1027 N IDAHO ST
1027 N IDAHO ST
BD-2020-275480
ADU
R
5/6/2020
1
1
1
No New detatched ADU
033023240
856 N IDAHO ST
856 N IDAHO ST
BD-2020-275510
ADU
R
5/7/2020
1
1
1
No New detatched ADU
033382020
1732 Nash Dr
1732 Nash Dr
BD-2020-275492
ADU
R
5/7/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion of detached structu
033314050
902 S FREMONT ST
902 S FREMONT ST
BD-2020-275538
ADU
R
5/11/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion of detached structu
035111020
1748 HEMLOCK AVE
1748 HEMLOCK AVE
BD-2020-275567
ADU
R
5/12/2020
1
1
1
No New detatched ADU
033045080
343 N HUMBOLDT ST
343 N HUMBOLDT ST
BD-2020-275554
ADU
R
5/12/2020
1
1
0
No New detatched ADU
032198060
257 N ELLSWORTH 
AVE
257 N ELLSWORTH AVE
BD-2020-275606
ADU
R
5/14/2020
1
1
0
No
New detached ADU
033382140
1856 NASH DR
1856 NASH DR
BD-2020-275616
ADU
R
5/14/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
040136140
3615 ORINDA DR
3615 ORINDA DR
BD-2020-275665
ADU
R
5/19/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
035401140
2338 S NORFOLK ST
2338 S NORFOLK ST
BD-2020-275721
ADU
R
5/22/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
033241560
1725 DOLAN AVE
1725 DOLAN AVE
BD-2020-275770
ADU
R
5/28/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
042165010
17 W 38TH AVE
17 W 38TH AVE
BD-2020-275783
ADU
R
5/29/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
033204170
1521 2ND AVE
1521 2ND AVE
BD-2020-275814
ADU
R
6/2/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
040103130
405 SANTA CLARA 
WAY
405 SANTA CLARA WAY
BD-2020-275865
ADU
R
6/8/2020
1
1
1
No
Legalize existing detached ADU
034211080
438 SONORA DR
438 SONORA DR
BD-2020-275882
ADU
R
6/9/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
033267090
638 RAND ST
638 RAND ST
BD-2020-275926
ADU
R
6/10/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
032100180
87 W POPLAR AVE
87 W POPLAR AVE
BD-2020-275914
SFD
R
6/10/2020
1
1
1
No NEW SFR
033267090
638 RAND ST
638 RAND ST
BD-2020-275926
ADU
R
6/10/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
035282140
1634 BORDEN ST
1634 BORDEN ST
BD-2020-275962
ADU
R
6/13/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
035364190
1777 HAMLET ST
1777 HAMLET ST
BD-2020-275966
ADU
R
6/13/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
040073170
54 E 40TH AVE
54 E 40TH AVE
BD-2020-275998
ADU
R
6/16/2020
2
2
2
No Conversion and addition for two
033111040
16 IRIS CT
16 IRIS CT
BD-2020-276012
ADU
R
6/17/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
034285080
137 12TH AVE
137 12TH AVE
BD-2020-276005
ADU
R
6/17/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion of detached structu
034224020
228 SONORA DR
228 SONORA DR
BD-2020-276097
ADU
R
6/26/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
034063150
544 VIRGINIA AVE
544 VIRGINIA AVE
BD-2020-276107
ADU
R
6/26/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
032033040
631 COSTA RICA AVE
631 COSTA RICA AVE
BD-2020-276121
ADU
R
6/28/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion of detached structu
034276070
119 10TH AVE
119 10TH AVE
BD-2020-276124
ADU
R
6/28/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
040402120
1804 EL PARQUE CT A
1804 EL PARQUE CT A
BD-2020-276174
ADU
R
7/6/2020
1
1
0
No
New attached ADU
033321110
926 S HUMBOLDT ST
926 S HUMBOLDT ST
BD-2020-276160
ADU
R
7/6/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
035255010
646 EDNA WAY
646 EDNA WAY
BD-2020-276208
ADU
R
7/8/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
033365290
1009 S NORFOLK ST
1009 S NORFOLK ST
BD-2020-276219
ADU
R
7/9/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
Housing Development Applications Submitted
Table A
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation formulas
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
5
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
Proposed Units - Affordability by Household Incomes 
 Page 1 of 2
257 of 282

--- page 258 ---
040392080
1548 LAGO ST
1548 LAGO ST
BD-2020-276269
ADU
R
7/13/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
035255010
646 EDNA WAY
646 EDNA WAY
BD-2020-276298
ADU
R
7/15/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
033363280
933 ANNA ST
933 ANNA ST
BD-2020-276319
ADU
R
7/16/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
033352450
1081 NORTON ST
1081 NORTON ST
BD-2020-276348
ADU
R
7/20/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion of detached structu
035415180
2649 HOLLAND ST
2649 HOLLAND ST
BD-2020-276347
ADU
R
7/20/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion of detached structu
033034160
600 N IDAHO ST
600 N IDAHO ST
BD-2020-276429
ADU
R
7/29/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
039141020
417 22ND AVE
417 22ND AVE
BD-2020-276448
ADU
R
7/29/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU to existing d
034289080
25 13TH AVE
25 13TH AVE
BD-2020-276482
ADU
R
7/30/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
033145010
822 TILTON AVE
822 TILTON AVE
BD-2020-276513
2 to 4
R
7/31/2020
2
2
0
No New duplex
034275190
54 9TH AVE 1
54 9TH AVE 1
BD-2020-276525
ADU
R
8/3/2020
1
1
1
No Junior ADU conversion
032172040
449 HIGHLAND AVE
449 HIGHLAND AVE
BD-2020-276540
ADU
R
8/4/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
035066270
1221 CARLISLE DR
1221 CARLISLE DR
BD-2020-276563
ADU
R
8/5/2020
1
1
1
No New ADU conversion
033241190
1622 DOLAN AVE
1622 DOLAN AVE
BD-2020-276577
ADU
R
8/6/2020
1
1
0
No New detached ADU
032305120
103 N ELDORADO ST
103 N ELDORADO ST
BD-2020-276676
ADU
R
8/14/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion of detached structu
034211020
526 SONORA DR
526 SONORA DR
BD-2020-276686
ADU
R
8/16/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion of detached structu
034411230
1519 LOCUST ST
1519 LOCUST ST
BD-2020-276816
ADU
R
8/26/2020
1
1
1
No Conversion of detached structu
040025160
2309 KENT ST
2309 KENT ST
BD-2020-276850
ADU
R
8/28/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
032280040
210 GRAMERCY DR
210 GRAMERCY DR
BD-2020-276834
ADU
R
8/28/2020
1
1
1
No Junior ADU conversion
039210320
843 OVERLOOK CT
843 OVERLOOK CT
BD-2020-276932
ADU
R
9/2/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
033332030
716 HOWE ST
716 HOWE ST
BD-2020-276992
ADU
R
9/9/2020
1
1
1
No New detatched ADU
039151050
121 22ND AVE
121 22ND AVE
BD-2020-277046
ADU
R
9/14/2020
1
1
0
No New ADU conversion
040053170
108 E HILLSDALE BLVD
108 E HILLSDALE BLVD
BD-2020-277073
ADU
R
9/15/2020
1
1
0
No
New detached ADU
033102140
1519 TROLLMAN AVE
1519 TROLLMAN AVE
BD-2020-277111
ADU
R
9/17/2020
1
1
1
No Legalized existing ADU 
033342120
865 FALLON AVE
865 FALLON AVE
BD-2020-277207
ADU
R
9/23/2020
1
1
0
No New ADU conversion
032114160
229 STATE ST
229 STATE ST
BD-2020-277259
ADU
R
9/25/2020
1
1
1
No Legalized existing ADU convers
033212130
1713 CYPRESS AVE
1713 CYPRESS AVE
BD-2020-277258
ADU
R
9/25/2020
1
1
0
No New detached ADU
033274020
1726 SHOREVIEW AVE
1726 SHOREVIEW AVE
BD-2020-277284
ADU
R
9/28/2020
1
1
1
No
New detached ADU
032431100
21 DE SABLA RD
21 DE SABLA RD
BD-2020-277311
ADU
R
9/30/2020
1
1
0
No New detached ADU
032202080
320 RAMONA ST A
320 RAMONA ST A
BD-2020-277329
ADU
R
10/1/2020
1
1
0
No New ADU conversion
035291150
1756 WASHINGTON ST
1756 WASHINGTON ST
BD-2020-277416
ADU
R
10/8/2020
1
1
1
No
New detached ADU
042140030
205 W 39TH AVE
205 W 39TH AVE
BD-2020-277413
ADU
R
10/8/2020
1
1
0
No Legalize exisiting conversion of 
039151160
136 23RD AVE
136 23RD AVE
BD-2020-277428
ADU
R
10/8/2020
1
1
0
No New detached ADU
031051150
528 CLARK DR
528 CLARK DR
BD-2020-277453
ADU
R
10/9/2020
1
1
1
No Junior ADU conversion
033152090
112 S GRANT ST
112 S GRANT ST
BD-2020-277483
ADU
R
10/13/2020
1
1
0
No Legalize existing ADU conversio
042181230
4131 KINGRIDGE DR
4131 KINGRIDGE DR
BD-2020-277571
ADU
R
10/19/2020
1
1
0
No New detached ADU
033342100
856 OCEAN VIEW AVE
856 OCEAN VIEW AVE
BD-2020-277632
ADU
R
10/22/2020
1
1
0
No
New attached ADU
042094220
635 W 39TH AVE
635 W 39TH AVE
BD-2020-277708
ADU
R
10/28/2020
1
1
0
No New attached ADU
032135090
470 STUDIO CIR 1
470 STUDIO CIR 1
BD-2020-277764
ADU
R
11/2/2020
1
1
0
No New ADU conversion
033151010
106 S HUMBOLDT ST
106 S HUMBOLDT ST
BD-2020-277878
ADU
R
11/10/2020
1
1
1
No Legalize existing ADU conversio
034373240
1217 OAK ST
1217 OAK ST
BD-2020-277919
ADU
R
11/13/2020
1
1
0
No New ADU conversion
042171370
653 NEWLANDS AVE
653 NEWLANDS AVE
BD-2020-278018
ADU
R
11/23/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
033202160
1533 CYPRESS AVE
1533 CYPRESS AVE
BD-2020-278113
ADU
R
12/3/2020
1
1
0
No Convert exist detached structur
040103250
402 POINSETTIA AVE
402 POINSETTIA AVE
BD-2020-278129
ADU
R
12/3/2020
1
1
1
No New detached ADU
034045110
735 NEVADA AVE
735 NEVADA AVE
BD-2020-278160
ADU
R
12/8/2020
1
1
1
No New attached ADU
032031290
408 WARREN RD
408 WARREN RD
BD-2020-278178
ADU
R
12/9/2020
1
1
0
No New ADU conversion
039324200
432 28TH AVE
432 28TH AVE
BD-2020-278199
ADU
R
12/10/2020
1
1
0
No New detatched ADU
035293110
1756 PIERCE ST
1756 PIERCE ST
BD-2020-278254
ADU
R
12/15/2020
1
1
0
No New ADU conversion
032167280
612 N CLAREMONT ST
612 N CLAREMONT ST
BD-2020-278240
ADU
R
12/15/2020
1
1
0
No
New ADU conversion
033351250
1100 NORTON ST
1100 NORTON ST
BD-2020-278310
ADU
R
12/21/2020
1
1
0
No New attached ADU
034482140
801 MURPHY DR
801 MURPHY DR
BD-2020-278345
ADU
R
12/28/2020
1
1
0
No New detached ADU
0
 Page 2 of 2
258 of 282

--- page 259 ---
Table A2
Annual Building Activity Report Summary - New Construction, Entitled, Permits and Completed Units
2
3
5
6
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income   
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Entitlement
Date Approved
# of Units issued 
Entitlements
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
180
0
145
0
0
0
1155
1480
035255070
16 JODY CT
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-272797
ADU
R
0
032023010
201 W POPLAR 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272665
ADU
R
0
039395230
137 30TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274960
ADU
R
0
034161020
40 S ELDORADO 
ST
ADU
BD-2019-273242
ADU
R
0
035513440
540 FATHOM DR
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-272050
ADU
R
0
040071260
70 E 38TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-274083
ADU
R
0
040136050
309 CUPERTINO 
WAY
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275138
ADU
R
0
032133060
849 N DELAWARE 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272302
ADU
R
0
042223010
4007 BAYVIEW 
AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-274523
ADU
R
0
033331150
1325 JAMES CT
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272336
ADU
R
0
033382020
1732 Nash Dr
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275492
ADU
R
0
034383310
1305 MAPLE ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275360
ADU
R
0
035095090
1236 DIX ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-271737
ADU
R
0
035332300
476 FIESTA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-274351
ADU
R
0
033194150
121 S KINGSTON 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-273943
ADU
R
0
032132140
406 STATE ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274822
ADU
R
0
040136140
3615 ORINDA DR
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275665
ADU
R
0
032164080
421 VILLA TER
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274826
ADU
R
0
040053150
101 POINSETTIA 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275013
ADU
R
0
033314050
902 S FREMONT 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275538
ADU
R
0
034224020
228 SONORA DR
ADU 
BD-2020-276097
ADU
R
0
034276070
119 10TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276124
ADU
R
0
034063150
544 VIRGINIA AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276107
ADU
R
0
040073170
54 E 40TH AVE
2 ADU - Detached 
Units
BD-2020-275998
ADU
R
0
034211020
526 SONORA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276686
ADU
R
0
035111020
1748 HEMLOCK 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275567
ADU
R
0
033382140
1856 NASH DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275616
ADU
R
0
033151060
126 S HUMBOLDT 
ST
ADU
BD-2019-272209
ADU
R
0
029312120
1027 N IDAHO ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275480
ADU
R
0
040103130
405 SANTA 
CLARA WAY
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275865
ADU
R
0
033195160
131 LINDBERGH 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-273325
ADU
R
0
035415180
2649 HOLLAND ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276347
ADU
R
0
033363280
933 ANNA ST
Adu - Detached
BD-2020-276319
ADU
R
0
042165010
17 W 38TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275783
ADU
R
0
034275190
54 9TH AVE 1
JADU - Attached
BD-2020-276525
ADU
R
0
034289080
25 13TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276482
ADU
R
0
033195030
10 S NORFOLK ST
ADU
BD-2019-270236
ADU
R
0
033365290
1009 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276219
ADU
R
0
035274220
1704 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275284
ADU
R
0
033354230
1417 HEMLOCK 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275237
ADU
R
0
035401140
2338 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275721
ADU
R
0
033173200
1507 HURON AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275327
ADU
R
0
034285080
137 12TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276005
ADU
R
0
040392080
1548 LAGO ST
ADU
BD-2020-276269
ADU
R
0
033241560
1725 DOLAN AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275770
ADU
R
0
033352450
1081 NORTON ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276348
ADU
R
0
032172040
449 HIGHLAND 
AVE
ADU
BD-2020-276540
ADU
R
0
1
4
Project Identifier
Unit Types
Affordability by Household Incomes - Completed Entitlement
259 of 282

--- page 260 ---
Table A2
Annual Building Activity Report Summary - New Construction, Entitled, Permits and Completed Units
2
3
5
6
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income   
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Entitlement
Date Approved
# of Units issued 
Entitlements
1
4
Project Identifier
Unit Types
Affordability by Household Incomes - Completed Entitlement
035066270
1221 CARLISLE 
DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276563
ADU
R
0
033034160
600 N IDAHO ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276429
ADU
R
0
034211080
438 SONORA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275882
ADU
R
0
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD; Waters 
Park
BD-2020-277803
SFD
O
0
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD; Waters 
Park
BD-2020-277805
SFD
O
0
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277808
SFD
O
0
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277807
SFD
O
0
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277806
SFD
O
0
033151170
23 S GRANT ST
New SFD
BD-2019-272958
SFD
O
0
032153140
501 N SAN MATEO 
DR
New Condo
BD-2017-265443
2 to 4
O
0
032175020
345 ELM ST A
Demo/New Condo
BD-2019-273367/BD-
2019-271803
2 to 4
O
0
034182150
406 E 3RD AVE
Mixed-Use, Windy 
Hills
BD-2019-272038
5+
R
0
039142310
807 S DELAWARE 
ST
Convert SFD to 
Duplex
BD-2019-273612
SFA
O
0
35320450
2089 PACIFIC 
BLVD
Change of Use 
convert (8) 2bedrm 
units to (16) studio 
units
BD-2019-271849
5+
R
0
035200220
430 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
MU-1
BD-2015-255980
5+
R
0
035200230
400 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
RE-2
BD-2016-260075
5+
R
0
032151070
238 STATE St
Demo/New Condo
BD-2015-256511/BD-
2015-256511
2 to 4
O
0
035200210
410 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
RE-3
BD-2016-260882
5+
R
0
040030880
2775 S 
DELAWARE ST
Montara (Bridge 
Housing)  
Apartments
BD-2018-269405
5+
R
034412020
39 BARNESON 
AVE
New Duplex
BD-2016-260367
2 to 4
O
042050140
614 36TH AVE
New SFD
BD-2018-266696
SFD
O
042050140
612 36TH AVE
New SFD
BD-2018-266697
SFD
O
033151140
103 S GRANT ST
New SFD
BD-2018-269440
SFD
O
035415260
143 12TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2018-269904
ADU
R
040103130
2523 HOLLAND ST
ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-272174
ADU
R
040403080
1305 PALM AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-271063
ADU
R
033233070
3801 PACIFIC 
BLVD
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-271550
ADU
R
042151040
234 22ND AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-271604
ADU
R
0
039253150
1685 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-269983
ADU
R
0
034103060
240 N DELAWARE 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270453
ADU
R
0
034296110
4028 ALAMEDA 
DE LAS PULGAS
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-271102
ADU
R
0
042201190
20 EVA CT
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-268435
ADU
R
0
260 of 282

--- page 261 ---
Table A2
Annual Building Activity Report Summary - New Construction, Entitled, Permits and Completed Units
2
3
5
6
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income   
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Entitlement
Date Approved
# of Units issued 
Entitlements
1
4
Project Identifier
Unit Types
Affordability by Household Incomes - Completed Entitlement
033192200
1248 TERMINAL 
PL
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-273435
ADU
R
0
042181130
120 22ND AVE
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-270810
ADU
R
0
040413170
1434 2ND AVE
ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-269531
ADU
R
0
032215180
1963 PLAYA ST
ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-270313
ADU
R
0
040071170
150 N 
CLAREMONT ST
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-269661
ADU
R
0
032201120
32 N KINGSTON 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272054
ADU
R
0
040071260
371 
GEORGETOWN 
AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270724
ADU
R
0
033032100
149 N DELAWARE 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272158
ADU
R
0
035276130
704 27TH AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270145
ADU
R
0
032304210
409 TILTON AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2018-266390
ADU
R
0
042165010
3256 LOS 
PRADOS ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270426
ADU
R
0
032304020
205 N HUMBOLDT 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2017-262385
ADU
R
0
033382020
1888 SHOREVIEW 
AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272878
ADU
R
0
032305090
126 16TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272019
ADU
R
0
040136050
523 N IDAHO ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272957
ADU
R
0
032133060
320 N 
ELLSWORTH AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2017-265472
ADU
R
0
032303140
117 N ELDORADO 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270047
ADU
R
0
039060700
550 LA CASA AVE
ADU - Attached 
BD-2017-263680
ADU
R
0
032203150
311 N 
CLAREMONT St
ADU - Attached
BD-2015-255366
ADU
R
0
033303220
601 S HUMBOLDT 
ST
Convert SFD to 
Duplex (Attached)
BD-2019-271252
2 to 4
O
0
34183060
480 E 4TH AVE A
City-Owned 
Downtown Affordable 
Housing and Parking 
Garage, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP
PA-2019-033
5+
R
107
116
2
8/17/2020
225
035243090, -140, -
160, -170, -190, -
200, -210, -220
666 Concar Dr
Concar Passage 
Mixed Use Project
(SPAR, SDPA, 
Vesting Tentative 
Map, Development 
Agreement)
PA-2018-052
5+
R
73
888
8/17/2020
961
041522010, 
041522020, 
041521010, 
041521020
2988 CAMPUS DR 
100
Peninsula Heights 
(SUP + SPAR + 
SDPA + Vesting 
Tentative Map)
PA-2020-012
5+
O
29
261
12/8/2020
290
33141040
146 N GRANT ST
146 N. Grant St, 
Duplex SPAR
PA-2019-037
2 to 4
R
1
4/29/2020
1
33296030
711 S GRANT ST
711 S. Grant St, 
Duplex SPAR + 
SDPA
PA-2019-032
2 to 4
R
1
4/29/2020
1
33145010
822 TILTON AVE
822 Tilton Ave. 
SPAR + SDPA
PA-2018-046
2 to 4
R
1
3/10/2020
1
32092140
175 W. Bellevue 
Ave
SFD
PA-2020-031
ADU
R
1
10/30/2020
1
261 of 282

--- page 262 ---
Annual Buildin
2
3
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
035255070
16 JODY CT
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-272797
ADU
R
032023010
201 W POPLAR 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272665
ADU
R
039395230
137 30TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274960
ADU
R
034161020
40 S ELDORADO 
ST
ADU
BD-2019-273242
ADU
R
035513440
540 FATHOM DR
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-272050
ADU
R
040071260
70 E 38TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-274083
ADU
R
040136050
309 CUPERTINO 
WAY
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275138
ADU
R
032133060
849 N DELAWARE 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272302
ADU
R
042223010
4007 BAYVIEW 
AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-274523
ADU
R
033331150
1325 JAMES CT
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272336
ADU
R
033382020
1732 Nash Dr
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275492
ADU
R
034383310
1305 MAPLE ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275360
ADU
R
035095090
1236 DIX ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-271737
ADU
R
035332300
476 FIESTA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-274351
ADU
R
033194150
121 S KINGSTON 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-273943
ADU
R
032132140
406 STATE ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274822
ADU
R
040136140
3615 ORINDA DR
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275665
ADU
R
032164080
421 VILLA TER
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274826
ADU
R
040053150
101 POINSETTIA 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275013
ADU
R
033314050
902 S FREMONT 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275538
ADU
R
034224020
228 SONORA DR
ADU 
BD-2020-276097
ADU
R
034276070
119 10TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276124
ADU
R
034063150
544 VIRGINIA AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276107
ADU
R
040073170
54 E 40TH AVE
2 ADU - Detached 
Units
BD-2020-275998
ADU
R
034211020
526 SONORA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276686
ADU
R
035111020
1748 HEMLOCK 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275567
ADU
R
033382140
1856 NASH DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275616
ADU
R
033151060
126 S HUMBOLDT 
ST
ADU
BD-2019-272209
ADU
R
029312120
1027 N IDAHO ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275480
ADU
R
040103130
405 SANTA 
CLARA WAY
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275865
ADU
R
033195160
131 LINDBERGH 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-273325
ADU
R
035415180
2649 HOLLAND ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276347
ADU
R
033363280
933 ANNA ST
Adu - Detached
BD-2020-276319
ADU
R
042165010
17 W 38TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275783
ADU
R
034275190
54 9TH AVE 1
JADU - Attached
BD-2020-276525
ADU
R
034289080
25 13TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276482
ADU
R
033195030
10 S NORFOLK ST
ADU
BD-2019-270236
ADU
R
033365290
1009 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276219
ADU
R
035274220
1704 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275284
ADU
R
033354230
1417 HEMLOCK 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275237
ADU
R
035401140
2338 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275721
ADU
R
033173200
1507 HURON AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275327
ADU
R
034285080
137 12TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276005
ADU
R
040392080
1548 LAGO ST
ADU
BD-2020-276269
ADU
R
033241560
1725 DOLAN AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275770
ADU
R
033352450
1081 NORTON ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276348
ADU
R
032172040
449 HIGHLAND 
AVE
ADU
BD-2020-276540
ADU
R
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
Affordability 
by 
Household 
Incomes - 
Building
7
8
9
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income  
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Building Permits 
Date Issued
# of Units Issued 
Building Permits 
3
0
1
0
0
0
92
96
1
1/10/2020
1
1
1/13/2020
1
1
2/10/2020
1
1
3/2/2020
1
1
3/11/2020
1
1
5/12/2020
1
1
6/1/2020
1
1
6/2/2020
1
1
6/5/2020
1
1
6/19/2020
1
1
7/27/2020
1
1
7/27/2020
1
1
7/29/2020
1
1
7/29/2020
1
1
8/18/2020
1
1
8/21/2020
1
1
8/29/2020
1
1
9/9/2020
1
1
9/28/2020
1
1
10/5/2020
1
1
10/6/2020
1
1
10/7/2020
1
1
10/12/2020
1
2
10/14/2020
2
1
10/19/2020
1
1
10/20/2020
1
1
10/20/2020
1
1
10/20/2020
1
1
10/20/2020
1
1
10/21/2020
1
1
10/21/2020
1
1
10/23/2020
1
1
10/26/2020
1
1
10/26/2020
1
1
11/2/2020
1
1
11/5/2020
1
1
11/9/2020
1
1
11/17/2020
1
1
11/18/2020
1
1
11/24/2020
1
1
11/25/2020
1
1
11/25/2020
1
1
12/8/2020
1
1
12/9/2020
1
1
12/11/2020
1
1
12/15/2020
1
1
12/16/2020
1
262 of 282

--- page 263 ---
Annual Buildin
2
3
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
035066270
1221 CARLISLE 
DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276563
ADU
R
033034160
600 N IDAHO ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276429
ADU
R
034211080
438 SONORA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275882
ADU
R
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD; Waters 
Park
BD-2020-277803
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD; Waters 
Park
BD-2020-277805
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277808
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277807
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277806
SFD
O
033151170
23 S GRANT ST
New SFD
BD-2019-272958
SFD
O
032153140
501 N SAN MATEO 
DR
New Condo
BD-2017-265443
2 to 4
O
032175020
345 ELM ST A
Demo/New Condo
BD-2019-273367/BD-
2019-271803
2 to 4
O
034182150
406 E 3RD AVE
Mixed-Use, Windy 
Hills
BD-2019-272038
5+
R
039142310
807 S DELAWARE 
ST
Convert SFD to 
Duplex
BD-2019-273612
SFA
O
35320450
2089 PACIFIC 
BLVD
Change of Use 
convert (8) 2bedrm 
units to (16) studio 
units
BD-2019-271849
5+
R
035200220
430 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
MU-1
BD-2015-255980
5+
R
035200230
400 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
RE-2
BD-2016-260075
5+
R
032151070
238 STATE St
Demo/New Condo
BD-2015-256511/BD-
2015-256511
2 to 4
O
035200210
410 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
RE-3
BD-2016-260882
5+
R
040030880
2775 S 
DELAWARE ST
Montara (Bridge 
Housing)  
Apartments
BD-2018-269405
5+
R
034412020
39 BARNESON 
AVE
New Duplex
BD-2016-260367
2 to 4
O
042050140
614 36TH AVE
New SFD
BD-2018-266696
SFD
O
042050140
612 36TH AVE
New SFD
BD-2018-266697
SFD
O
033151140
103 S GRANT ST
New SFD
BD-2018-269440
SFD
O
035415260
143 12TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2018-269904
ADU
R
040103130
2523 HOLLAND ST
ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-272174
ADU
R
040403080
1305 PALM AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-271063
ADU
R
033233070
3801 PACIFIC 
BLVD
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-271550
ADU
R
042151040
234 22ND AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-271604
ADU
R
039253150
1685 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-269983
ADU
R
034103060
240 N DELAWARE 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270453
ADU
R
034296110
4028 ALAMEDA 
DE LAS PULGAS
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-271102
ADU
R
042201190
20 EVA CT
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-268435
ADU
R
Affordability 
by 
Household 
Incomes - 
Building
7
8
9
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income  
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Building Permits 
Date Issued
# of Units Issued 
Building Permits 
1
12/21/2020
1
1
12/22/2020
1
1
12/28/2020
1
1
11/16/2020
1
1
11/16/2020
1
1
11/23/2020
1
1
11/23/2020
1
1
11/23/2020
1
1
12/8/2020
1
2
2/28/2020
2
2
5/28/2020
2
3
22
4/14/2020
25
1
5/18/2020
1
1
7
12/10/2020
8
0
0
0
0
0
0
263 of 282

--- page 264 ---
Annual Buildin
2
3
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
033192200
1248 TERMINAL 
PL
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-273435
ADU
R
042181130
120 22ND AVE
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-270810
ADU
R
040413170
1434 2ND AVE
ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-269531
ADU
R
032215180
1963 PLAYA ST
ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-270313
ADU
R
040071170
150 N 
CLAREMONT ST
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-269661
ADU
R
032201120
32 N KINGSTON 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272054
ADU
R
040071260
371 
GEORGETOWN 
AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270724
ADU
R
033032100
149 N DELAWARE 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272158
ADU
R
035276130
704 27TH AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270145
ADU
R
032304210
409 TILTON AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2018-266390
ADU
R
042165010
3256 LOS 
PRADOS ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270426
ADU
R
032304020
205 N HUMBOLDT 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2017-262385
ADU
R
033382020
1888 SHOREVIEW 
AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272878
ADU
R
032305090
126 16TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272019
ADU
R
040136050
523 N IDAHO ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272957
ADU
R
032133060
320 N 
ELLSWORTH AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2017-265472
ADU
R
032303140
117 N ELDORADO 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270047
ADU
R
039060700
550 LA CASA AVE
ADU - Attached 
BD-2017-263680
ADU
R
032203150
311 N 
CLAREMONT St
ADU - Attached
BD-2015-255366
ADU
R
033303220
601 S HUMBOLDT 
ST
Convert SFD to 
Duplex (Attached)
BD-2019-271252
2 to 4
O
34183060
480 E 4TH AVE A
City-Owned 
Downtown Affordable 
Housing and Parking 
Garage, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP
PA-2019-033
5+
R
035243090, -140, -
160, -170, -190, -
200, -210, -220
666 Concar Dr
Concar Passage 
Mixed Use Project
(SPAR, SDPA, 
Vesting Tentative 
Map, Development 
Agreement)
PA-2018-052
5+
R
041522010, 
041522020, 
041521010, 
041521020
2988 CAMPUS DR 
100
Peninsula Heights 
(SUP + SPAR + 
SDPA + Vesting 
Tentative Map)
PA-2020-012
5+
O
33141040
146 N GRANT ST
146 N. Grant St, 
Duplex SPAR
PA-2019-037
2 to 4
R
33296030
711 S GRANT ST
711 S. Grant St, 
Duplex SPAR + 
SDPA
PA-2019-032
2 to 4
R
33145010
822 TILTON AVE
822 Tilton Ave. 
SPAR + SDPA
PA-2018-046
2 to 4
R
32092140
175 W. Bellevue 
Ave
SFD
PA-2020-031
ADU
R
Affordability 
by 
Household 
Incomes - 
Building
7
8
9
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income  
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Building Permits 
Date Issued
# of Units Issued 
Building Permits 
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
11/10/2020
1
264 of 282

--- page 265 ---
Annual Buildin
2
3
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
035255070
16 JODY CT
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-272797
ADU
R
032023010
201 W POPLAR 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272665
ADU
R
039395230
137 30TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274960
ADU
R
034161020
40 S ELDORADO 
ST
ADU
BD-2019-273242
ADU
R
035513440
540 FATHOM DR
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-272050
ADU
R
040071260
70 E 38TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-274083
ADU
R
040136050
309 CUPERTINO 
WAY
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275138
ADU
R
032133060
849 N DELAWARE 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272302
ADU
R
042223010
4007 BAYVIEW 
AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-274523
ADU
R
033331150
1325 JAMES CT
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272336
ADU
R
033382020
1732 Nash Dr
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275492
ADU
R
034383310
1305 MAPLE ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275360
ADU
R
035095090
1236 DIX ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-271737
ADU
R
035332300
476 FIESTA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-274351
ADU
R
033194150
121 S KINGSTON 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-273943
ADU
R
032132140
406 STATE ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274822
ADU
R
040136140
3615 ORINDA DR
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275665
ADU
R
032164080
421 VILLA TER
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274826
ADU
R
040053150
101 POINSETTIA 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275013
ADU
R
033314050
902 S FREMONT 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275538
ADU
R
034224020
228 SONORA DR
ADU 
BD-2020-276097
ADU
R
034276070
119 10TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276124
ADU
R
034063150
544 VIRGINIA AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276107
ADU
R
040073170
54 E 40TH AVE
2 ADU - Detached 
Units
BD-2020-275998
ADU
R
034211020
526 SONORA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276686
ADU
R
035111020
1748 HEMLOCK 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275567
ADU
R
033382140
1856 NASH DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275616
ADU
R
033151060
126 S HUMBOLDT 
ST
ADU
BD-2019-272209
ADU
R
029312120
1027 N IDAHO ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275480
ADU
R
040103130
405 SANTA 
CLARA WAY
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275865
ADU
R
033195160
131 LINDBERGH 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-273325
ADU
R
035415180
2649 HOLLAND ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276347
ADU
R
033363280
933 ANNA ST
Adu - Detached
BD-2020-276319
ADU
R
042165010
17 W 38TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275783
ADU
R
034275190
54 9TH AVE 1
JADU - Attached
BD-2020-276525
ADU
R
034289080
25 13TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276482
ADU
R
033195030
10 S NORFOLK ST
ADU
BD-2019-270236
ADU
R
033365290
1009 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276219
ADU
R
035274220
1704 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275284
ADU
R
033354230
1417 HEMLOCK 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275237
ADU
R
035401140
2338 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275721
ADU
R
033173200
1507 HURON AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275327
ADU
R
034285080
137 12TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276005
ADU
R
040392080
1548 LAGO ST
ADU
BD-2020-276269
ADU
R
033241560
1725 DOLAN AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275770
ADU
R
033352450
1081 NORTON ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276348
ADU
R
032172040
449 HIGHLAND 
AVE
ADU
BD-2020-276540
ADU
R
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
Affordability 
by 
Household 
Incomes - 
Certificates
Streamlining
10
11
12
13
14
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income 
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Certificates of 
Occupancy or other 
forms of readiness         
(see instructions)    
Date Issued
# of  Units 
issued 
Certificates of 
Occupancy or 
other forms of 
readiness
How many of the 
units were 
Extremely Low 
Income?+
Was Project    
APPROVED using 
GC 65913.4(b)?  
(SB 35 Streamlining) 
Y/N
99
0
17
0
0
0
487
603
57
0
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
1
6/19/2020
1
N
1
9/14/2020
1
N
1
8/10/2020
1
N
1
10/22/2020
1
N
0
N
0
N
1
11/16/2020
1
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
1
11/10/2020
1
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
1
12/7/2020
1
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
265 of 282

--- page 266 ---
Annual Buildin
2
3
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
035066270
1221 CARLISLE 
DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276563
ADU
R
033034160
600 N IDAHO ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276429
ADU
R
034211080
438 SONORA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275882
ADU
R
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD; Waters 
Park
BD-2020-277803
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD; Waters 
Park
BD-2020-277805
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277808
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277807
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277806
SFD
O
033151170
23 S GRANT ST
New SFD
BD-2019-272958
SFD
O
032153140
501 N SAN MATEO 
DR
New Condo
BD-2017-265443
2 to 4
O
032175020
345 ELM ST A
Demo/New Condo
BD-2019-273367/BD-
2019-271803
2 to 4
O
034182150
406 E 3RD AVE
Mixed-Use, Windy 
Hills
BD-2019-272038
5+
R
039142310
807 S DELAWARE 
ST
Convert SFD to 
Duplex
BD-2019-273612
SFA
O
35320450
2089 PACIFIC 
BLVD
Change of Use 
convert (8) 2bedrm 
units to (16) studio 
units
BD-2019-271849
5+
R
035200220
430 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
MU-1
BD-2015-255980
5+
R
035200230
400 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
RE-2
BD-2016-260075
5+
R
032151070
238 STATE St
Demo/New Condo
BD-2015-256511/BD-
2015-256511
2 to 4
O
035200210
410 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
RE-3
BD-2016-260882
5+
R
040030880
2775 S 
DELAWARE ST
Montara (Bridge 
Housing)  
Apartments
BD-2018-269405
5+
R
034412020
39 BARNESON 
AVE
New Duplex
BD-2016-260367
2 to 4
O
042050140
614 36TH AVE
New SFD
BD-2018-266696
SFD
O
042050140
612 36TH AVE
New SFD
BD-2018-266697
SFD
O
033151140
103 S GRANT ST
New SFD
BD-2018-269440
SFD
O
035415260
143 12TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2018-269904
ADU
R
040103130
2523 HOLLAND ST
ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-272174
ADU
R
040403080
1305 PALM AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-271063
ADU
R
033233070
3801 PACIFIC 
BLVD
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-271550
ADU
R
042151040
234 22ND AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-271604
ADU
R
039253150
1685 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-269983
ADU
R
034103060
240 N DELAWARE 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270453
ADU
R
034296110
4028 ALAMEDA 
DE LAS PULGAS
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-271102
ADU
R
042201190
20 EVA CT
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-268435
ADU
R
Affordability 
by 
Household 
Incomes - 
Certificates
Streamlining
10
11
12
13
14
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income 
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Certificates of 
Occupancy or other 
forms of readiness         
(see instructions)    
Date Issued
# of  Units 
issued 
Certificates of 
Occupancy or 
other forms of 
readiness
How many of the 
units were 
Extremely Low 
Income?+
Was Project    
APPROVED using 
GC 65913.4(b)?  
(SB 35 Streamlining) 
Y/N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
N
N
N
N
0
N
0
N
12
109
6/16/2020
121
N
20
179
6/17/2020
199
N
2
4/24/2020
2
N
17
155
6/16/2020
172
N
50
17
1
11/17/2020
68
14
N
2
6/15/2020
2
N
1
1/2/2020
1
N
1
1/15/2020
1
N
1
9/14/2020
1
N
1
1/8/2020
1
N
1
1/13/2020
1
N
1
1/16/2020
1
N
1
1/17/2020
1
N
1
1/17/2020
1
N
1
1/24/2020
1
N
1
2/3/2020
1
N
1
2/4/2020
1
N
1
2/5/2020
1
N
266 of 282

--- page 267 ---
Annual Buildin
2
3
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
033192200
1248 TERMINAL 
PL
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-273435
ADU
R
042181130
120 22ND AVE
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-270810
ADU
R
040413170
1434 2ND AVE
ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-269531
ADU
R
032215180
1963 PLAYA ST
ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-270313
ADU
R
040071170
150 N 
CLAREMONT ST
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-269661
ADU
R
032201120
32 N KINGSTON 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272054
ADU
R
040071260
371 
GEORGETOWN 
AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270724
ADU
R
033032100
149 N DELAWARE 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272158
ADU
R
035276130
704 27TH AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270145
ADU
R
032304210
409 TILTON AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2018-266390
ADU
R
042165010
3256 LOS 
PRADOS ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270426
ADU
R
032304020
205 N HUMBOLDT 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2017-262385
ADU
R
033382020
1888 SHOREVIEW 
AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272878
ADU
R
032305090
126 16TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272019
ADU
R
040136050
523 N IDAHO ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272957
ADU
R
032133060
320 N 
ELLSWORTH AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2017-265472
ADU
R
032303140
117 N ELDORADO 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270047
ADU
R
039060700
550 LA CASA AVE
ADU - Attached 
BD-2017-263680
ADU
R
032203150
311 N 
CLAREMONT St
ADU - Attached
BD-2015-255366
ADU
R
033303220
601 S HUMBOLDT 
ST
Convert SFD to 
Duplex (Attached)
BD-2019-271252
2 to 4
O
34183060
480 E 4TH AVE A
City-Owned 
Downtown Affordable 
Housing and Parking 
Garage, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP
PA-2019-033
5+
R
035243090, -140, -
160, -170, -190, -
200, -210, -220
666 Concar Dr
Concar Passage 
Mixed Use Project
(SPAR, SDPA, 
Vesting Tentative 
Map, Development 
Agreement)
PA-2018-052
5+
R
041522010, 
041522020, 
041521010, 
041521020
2988 CAMPUS DR 
100
Peninsula Heights 
(SUP + SPAR + 
SDPA + Vesting 
Tentative Map)
PA-2020-012
5+
O
33141040
146 N GRANT ST
146 N. Grant St, 
Duplex SPAR
PA-2019-037
2 to 4
R
33296030
711 S GRANT ST
711 S. Grant St, 
Duplex SPAR + 
SDPA
PA-2019-032
2 to 4
R
33145010
822 TILTON AVE
822 Tilton Ave. 
SPAR + SDPA
PA-2018-046
2 to 4
R
32092140
175 W. Bellevue 
Ave
SFD
PA-2020-031
ADU
R
Affordability 
by 
Household 
Incomes - 
Certificates
Streamlining
10
11
12
13
14
Very Low- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Very Low- 
Income   Non 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income 
Deed 
Restricted
Low- Income 
Non Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Deed 
Restricted
Moderate- 
Income Non 
Deed Restricted
Above
Moderate-
Income
Certificates of 
Occupancy or other 
forms of readiness         
(see instructions)    
Date Issued
# of  Units 
issued 
Certificates of 
Occupancy or 
other forms of 
readiness
How many of the 
units were 
Extremely Low 
Income?+
Was Project    
APPROVED using 
GC 65913.4(b)?  
(SB 35 Streamlining) 
Y/N
1
2/18/2020
1
N
1
3/5/2020
1
N
1
3/5/2020
1
N
1
3/6/2020
1
N
1
3/10/2020
1
N
1
4/13/2020
1
N
1
5/26/2020
1
N
1
6/5/2020
1
N
1
6/9/2020
1
N
1
6/15/2020
1
N
1
6/19/2020
1
N
1
6/23/2020
1
N
1
7/1/2020
1
N
1
7/10/2020
1
N
1
8/11/2020
1
N
1
10/12/2020
1
N
1
11/17/2020
1
N
1
12/21/2020
1
N
1
11/5/2020
1
N
1
12/1/2020
1
N
0
43
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
0
N
267 of 282

--- page 268 ---
Annual Buildin
2
3
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
035255070
16 JODY CT
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-272797
ADU
R
032023010
201 W POPLAR 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272665
ADU
R
039395230
137 30TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274960
ADU
R
034161020
40 S ELDORADO 
ST
ADU
BD-2019-273242
ADU
R
035513440
540 FATHOM DR
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-272050
ADU
R
040071260
70 E 38TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-274083
ADU
R
040136050
309 CUPERTINO 
WAY
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275138
ADU
R
032133060
849 N DELAWARE 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272302
ADU
R
042223010
4007 BAYVIEW 
AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-274523
ADU
R
033331150
1325 JAMES CT
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272336
ADU
R
033382020
1732 Nash Dr
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275492
ADU
R
034383310
1305 MAPLE ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275360
ADU
R
035095090
1236 DIX ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-271737
ADU
R
035332300
476 FIESTA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-274351
ADU
R
033194150
121 S KINGSTON 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-273943
ADU
R
032132140
406 STATE ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274822
ADU
R
040136140
3615 ORINDA DR
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275665
ADU
R
032164080
421 VILLA TER
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-274826
ADU
R
040053150
101 POINSETTIA 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275013
ADU
R
033314050
902 S FREMONT 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275538
ADU
R
034224020
228 SONORA DR
ADU 
BD-2020-276097
ADU
R
034276070
119 10TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276124
ADU
R
034063150
544 VIRGINIA AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276107
ADU
R
040073170
54 E 40TH AVE
2 ADU - Detached 
Units
BD-2020-275998
ADU
R
034211020
526 SONORA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276686
ADU
R
035111020
1748 HEMLOCK 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275567
ADU
R
033382140
1856 NASH DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275616
ADU
R
033151060
126 S HUMBOLDT 
ST
ADU
BD-2019-272209
ADU
R
029312120
1027 N IDAHO ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275480
ADU
R
040103130
405 SANTA 
CLARA WAY
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275865
ADU
R
033195160
131 LINDBERGH 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-273325
ADU
R
035415180
2649 HOLLAND ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276347
ADU
R
033363280
933 ANNA ST
Adu - Detached
BD-2020-276319
ADU
R
042165010
17 W 38TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275783
ADU
R
034275190
54 9TH AVE 1
JADU - Attached
BD-2020-276525
ADU
R
034289080
25 13TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276482
ADU
R
033195030
10 S NORFOLK ST
ADU
BD-2019-270236
ADU
R
033365290
1009 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-276219
ADU
R
035274220
1704 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275284
ADU
R
033354230
1417 HEMLOCK 
AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275237
ADU
R
035401140
2338 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275721
ADU
R
033173200
1507 HURON AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275327
ADU
R
034285080
137 12TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276005
ADU
R
040392080
1548 LAGO ST
ADU
BD-2020-276269
ADU
R
033241560
1725 DOLAN AVE
ADU - Attached
BD-2020-275770
ADU
R
033352450
1081 NORTON ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276348
ADU
R
032172040
449 HIGHLAND 
AVE
ADU
BD-2020-276540
ADU
R
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
Infill
Housing with 
Financial 
Assistance and/or 
Deed Restrictions
Housing without Financial 
Assistance or Deed 
Restrictions
Term of Affordability 
or Deed Restriction
Demolished/D
estroyed Units
Notes
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
Infill Units?
Y/N+
Assistance Programs 
for Each Development  
(see instructions)
Deed Restriction 
Type
(see instructions)
For units affordable without 
financial assistance or deed 
restrictions, explain how the 
locality determined the units 
were affordable
(see instructions)
Term of Affordability or 
Deed Restriction (years) 
(if affordable in perpetuity 
enter 1000)+ 
Number of 
Demolished/Dest
royed Units+
Demolished or 
Destroyed Units+
Demolished/De
stroyed Units   
Owner or 
Renter+ 
Notes+
13
0
0
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
268 of 282

--- page 269 ---
Annual Buildin
2
3
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
035066270
1221 CARLISLE 
DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276563
ADU
R
033034160
600 N IDAHO ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-276429
ADU
R
034211080
438 SONORA DR
ADU - Detached
BD-2020-275882
ADU
R
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD; Waters 
Park
BD-2020-277803
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD; Waters 
Park
BD-2020-277805
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277808
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277807
SFD
O
035401450
1 WATERS PARK 
DR
New SFD, Water 
Park
BD-2020-277806
SFD
O
033151170
23 S GRANT ST
New SFD
BD-2019-272958
SFD
O
032153140
501 N SAN MATEO 
DR
New Condo
BD-2017-265443
2 to 4
O
032175020
345 ELM ST A
Demo/New Condo
BD-2019-273367/BD-
2019-271803
2 to 4
O
034182150
406 E 3RD AVE
Mixed-Use, Windy 
Hills
BD-2019-272038
5+
R
039142310
807 S DELAWARE 
ST
Convert SFD to 
Duplex
BD-2019-273612
SFA
O
35320450
2089 PACIFIC 
BLVD
Change of Use 
convert (8) 2bedrm 
units to (16) studio 
units
BD-2019-271849
5+
R
035200220
430 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
MU-1
BD-2015-255980
5+
R
035200230
400 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
RE-2
BD-2016-260075
5+
R
032151070
238 STATE St
Demo/New Condo
BD-2015-256511/BD-
2015-256511
2 to 4
O
035200210
410 STATION 
PARK CIR
Station Park Green 
RE-3
BD-2016-260882
5+
R
040030880
2775 S 
DELAWARE ST
Montara (Bridge 
Housing)  
Apartments
BD-2018-269405
5+
R
034412020
39 BARNESON 
AVE
New Duplex
BD-2016-260367
2 to 4
O
042050140
614 36TH AVE
New SFD
BD-2018-266696
SFD
O
042050140
612 36TH AVE
New SFD
BD-2018-266697
SFD
O
033151140
103 S GRANT ST
New SFD
BD-2018-269440
SFD
O
035415260
143 12TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2018-269904
ADU
R
040103130
2523 HOLLAND ST
ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-272174
ADU
R
040403080
1305 PALM AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-271063
ADU
R
033233070
3801 PACIFIC 
BLVD
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-271550
ADU
R
042151040
234 22ND AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-271604
ADU
R
039253150
1685 S NORFOLK 
ST
ADU - Attached
BD-2019-269983
ADU
R
034103060
240 N DELAWARE 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270453
ADU
R
034296110
4028 ALAMEDA 
DE LAS PULGAS
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-271102
ADU
R
042201190
20 EVA CT
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-268435
ADU
R
Infill
Housing with 
Financial 
Assistance and/or 
Deed Restrictions
Housing without Financial 
Assistance or Deed 
Restrictions
Term of Affordability 
or Deed Restriction
Demolished/D
estroyed Units
Notes
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
Infill Units?
Y/N+
Assistance Programs 
for Each Development  
(see instructions)
Deed Restriction 
Type
(see instructions)
For units affordable without 
financial assistance or deed 
restrictions, explain how the 
locality determined the units 
were affordable
(see instructions)
Term of Affordability or 
Deed Restriction (years) 
(if affordable in perpetuity 
enter 1000)+ 
Number of 
Demolished/Dest
royed Units+
Demolished or 
Destroyed Units+
Demolished/De
stroyed Units   
Owner or 
Renter+ 
Notes+
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
1
Y
2
Y
1
Demolished
O
3
Y
INC
1000
25
Y
1
Y
INC
1000
8
Demolished
R
Converted 8 2 BR units 
into 16 studios
Y
INC
1000
121
Y
INC
1000
199
Y
1
Demolished
O
3
Y
INC
1000
172
Y
AHP, HOME, LIHTC, 
RDA, Other
Other, DB
99
Contribution of Land
Y
2
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
269 of 282

--- page 270 ---
Annual Buildin
2
3
Prior APN+
Current APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Unit Category   
(SFA,SFD,2 to 
4,5+,ADU,MH)
Tenure
R=Renter
O=Owner
1
Project Identifier
Unit Types
033192200
1248 TERMINAL 
PL
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-273435
ADU
R
042181130
120 22ND AVE
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-270810
ADU
R
040413170
1434 2ND AVE
ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-269531
ADU
R
032215180
1963 PLAYA ST
ADU - Attached 
BD-2019-270313
ADU
R
040071170
150 N 
CLAREMONT ST
 ADU - Attached 
BD-2018-269661
ADU
R
032201120
32 N KINGSTON 
ST
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272054
ADU
R
040071260
371 
GEORGETOWN 
AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270724
ADU
R
033032100
149 N DELAWARE 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272158
ADU
R
035276130
704 27TH AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270145
ADU
R
032304210
409 TILTON AVE
ADU - Detached 
BD-2018-266390
ADU
R
042165010
3256 LOS 
PRADOS ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270426
ADU
R
032304020
205 N HUMBOLDT 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2017-262385
ADU
R
033382020
1888 SHOREVIEW 
AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272878
ADU
R
032305090
126 16TH AVE
ADU - Detached
BD-2019-272019
ADU
R
040136050
523 N IDAHO ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-272957
ADU
R
032133060
320 N 
ELLSWORTH AVE
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2017-265472
ADU
R
032303140
117 N ELDORADO 
ST
 ADU - Detached 
BD-2019-270047
ADU
R
039060700
550 LA CASA AVE
ADU - Attached 
BD-2017-263680
ADU
R
032203150
311 N 
CLAREMONT St
ADU - Attached
BD-2015-255366
ADU
R
033303220
601 S HUMBOLDT 
ST
Convert SFD to 
Duplex (Attached)
BD-2019-271252
2 to 4
O
34183060
480 E 4TH AVE A
City-Owned 
Downtown Affordable 
Housing and Parking 
Garage, SPAR (2) + 
SDPA + SUP
PA-2019-033
5+
R
035243090, -140, -
160, -170, -190, -
200, -210, -220
666 Concar Dr
Concar Passage 
Mixed Use Project
(SPAR, SDPA, 
Vesting Tentative 
Map, Development 
Agreement)
PA-2018-052
5+
R
041522010, 
041522020, 
041521010, 
041521020
2988 CAMPUS DR 
100
Peninsula Heights 
(SUP + SPAR + 
SDPA + Vesting 
Tentative Map)
PA-2020-012
5+
O
33141040
146 N GRANT ST
146 N. Grant St, 
Duplex SPAR
PA-2019-037
2 to 4
R
33296030
711 S GRANT ST
711 S. Grant St, 
Duplex SPAR + 
SDPA
PA-2019-032
2 to 4
R
33145010
822 TILTON AVE
822 Tilton Ave. 
SPAR + SDPA
PA-2018-046
2 to 4
R
32092140
175 W. Bellevue 
Ave
SFD
PA-2020-031
ADU
R
Infill
Housing with 
Financial 
Assistance and/or 
Deed Restrictions
Housing without Financial 
Assistance or Deed 
Restrictions
Term of Affordability 
or Deed Restriction
Demolished/D
estroyed Units
Notes
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
Infill Units?
Y/N+
Assistance Programs 
for Each Development  
(see instructions)
Deed Restriction 
Type
(see instructions)
For units affordable without 
financial assistance or deed 
restrictions, explain how the 
locality determined the units 
were affordable
(see instructions)
Term of Affordability or 
Deed Restriction (years) 
(if affordable in perpetuity 
enter 1000)+ 
Number of 
Demolished/Dest
royed Units+
Demolished or 
Destroyed Units+
Demolished/De
stroyed Units   
Owner or 
Renter+ 
Notes+
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Y
1
Demolished
O
1
Y
RDA, HOME, Other, 
LHTF
Other, DB
99
City Forgiveness of 
Bldg/Planning Fees, 
Contribution of Land
Y
INC, DB
1000
Y
INC
45
Y
1
Demolished
O
From 1 to 2
Y
1
Demolished
O
From 1 to 2
Y
Y
270 of 282

--- page 271 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Reporting Year
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Date of Rezone
Type of Shortfall
2
4
5
6
7
9
10
11
APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local 
Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Date of Rezone
Very Low-Income
Low-Income
Moderate-Income
Above Moderate-
Income
Type of Shortfall
Parcel Size
(Acres)
General Plan 
Designation
Zoning
Minimum    
Density Allowed 
Maximum    
Density Allowed
Realistic 
Capacity
Vacant/Nonvacant
Description of Existing 
Uses
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation formulas
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
8
3
Project Identifier
RHNA Shortfall by Household Income Category
Sites Description
1
Sites Identified or Rezoned to Accommodate Shortfall Housing Need
Table C
271 of 282

--- page 272 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Reporting Year
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
1
2
3
4
Name of Program
Objective
Timeframe in H.E
Status of Program Implementation
H 1.1 Residential 
Protection
Consider policy during the Special Use 
Permit process with respect to the 
intrusion of incompatible uses and  
overconcentration of non-residential 
uses, during the Site Plan and 
Architectural Review process in regards 
to adequate buffers,  and during design 
review of developments during design 
review process.
Ongoing
The City has adopted zoning code amendments which limit the over 
concentration of non-residential uses in residential zoning districts while at the 
same time allowing for provision of Special Use Permit request to provide for case 
by case review of facilities which meet identified community needs.Case by case 
evaluation of the impact of non-residential land uses has occurred with all Special 
Use Permits. Adequate buffers between residential and non residential uses are 
reviewed during the initial plan check.  Zoning Code provisions require 
quantitative setbacks and buffers to ensure that both the residential and non 
residential uses are protected.
H 1.2 Single Family 
Preservation
Consider potential impacts on intact 
single family neighborhoods during the 
review of land use changes and special 
use permits for proposed development 
other than single family dwellings and 
consider buffering prvosions during 
design review process.
Ongoing
Review of Special Use Permits for development near single-family neighborhoods 
are reviewed for land use compatibility including findings that the granting of 
such permit would not adversely affect the general health, safety or welfare of the 
community. Multi-family Dwelling Design Guidelines and Zoning Code 
requirements include provisions to ensure new multifamily developments are 
designed to transition to nearby single-family residences through tiered building 
heights and massing.  In multifamily zoned properties that abut single family 
zones, there are increased setbacks and buffers to ensure that the impact to 
single family neighborhoods are reduced. Additional buffering above and beyond 
the quantitative requirements outlined in the Zoning Code is considered during 
the design review process.  
H 1.3 Housing 
Rehabilitation
125 Minor Home Repairs for Low Income 
Households
16 projects per year
2015: Rehabs = 38 2016: Rehabs = 53 2017: Rehabs = 38 2018: Rehabs = 30 2018: 
Rehabs= 36 2019: Rehabs =  2020: Rehabs =  Running Total: Rehabs = 215
H 1.4 Code Enforcement
Continue code enforcement efforts and 
provide staff as needed to improve 
residential areas.  Continue use of 
administrative citations and fees, civil 
penalties, and civil and criminal 
litigation to bring about compliance. 
Ongoing
The City continues its enforcement efforts and provides staff to improve 
residential areas through abatement, administrative citations and fees, civil 
penalties, and civil litigation to bring about compliance. The City also uses court 
ordered inspection and abatement warrants to enter, inspect, and clean up 
hoarders and residential junkyards that present immediate health and safety 
violations. 
H 1.5 Building Bulk
Through plan check review of single-
family dwellings and duplex buildings, 
ensure compliance with both the single 
family and duplex regulations and 
design guidelines that control the bulk 
of and height of buildings.  
Ongoing
Plan checking of single-family dwellings is ongoing.  Second story additions to 
single family dwellings and new single-family dwellings, and duplexes require 
design review.  The adopted Single Family Design guidelines help to control the 
bulk and height of second story additions and new single family dwellings.  These 
guidelines help to protect against the over-sized additions and new construction 
in R-2 zoning districts.
H 1.6 Variances and Lot 
Divisions
Consider existing neighborhood 
character during variance and 
subdivision review.
Ongoing
Existing neighborhood character continues to be considered in the review of all 
variance and lot spit applications. Property and building characteristics of 
properties in the vicinity of any variance or lot split application become the basis 
of findings and recommendations for these types of applications.
H 1.7 Retention of Existing 
Lower Income Units
1) Monitor Lesly Park Towers to ensure 
refinance to ensure affordability upon 
expiration of exsisting covenants. 2) 
Coordinate extension of existing City 
Loan terms and affordabililty 
requirements  for Humboldt House. 3) 
Support regional and local efforts to 
address renter displacement.  Examine 
issues for City Council review and 
establish strategies as warranted.
1) 2015 2) 2020 3) 2016
1) Lesley Towers was able to secure a loan from HUD to complete full upgrades of 
the building and to preserve the building as senior affordable housing for an 
additional 40 years. 2) Affordability extension for Humboldt House for 2021-2041 
approved . 3) The City continues communications with the County Housing 
Authority and Department of Housing for ongoing opportunities. During Spring 
2016 the City's Housing Task Force finalized its report to Council. The task force 
was not able to agree on recommending any specific renter displacement policies 
to Council. During November 2016, City voters rejection Measure Q - a rent 
stabilization and just cause for eviction measure on the ballot. In November 2017 
City adopted its Assessment of Fair Housing., In 2019 City adopted Relocation 
Assistance Ordiance for tenants displaced due to unsafe conditions determined 
by Code Enforcement.  City also budgeted funds to front relocation assistance in 
urgent situations.
H 1.8 Condominium 
Conversion
Continue the existing policy of 
protecting existing residents by offering 
purchase opportunities, long-term 
leases and relocation assistance.
Ongoing
There were zero (0) condo conversions in 2018. There were two (2) condo 
conversions in 2019. There were zero (0) condo conversions in 2020.
H 1.9 Demolitions
Prohibit demolition of existing 
residences until a building permit for 
new construction has been issued, 
unless health and safety problems exist. 
Prevent housing stock from becoming 
health and safety problems through 
code enforcement efforts.
Ongoing
Demolition ordinance will continue to be implemented.
Housing Programs Progress Report  
Describe progress of all programs including local efforts to remove governmental constraints to the maintenance, improvement, and development of housing as identified in the housing 
element.
Table D
Program Implementation Status pursuant to GC Section 65583
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Housing Element Implementation
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Table D  1 of 3 pages
272 of 282

--- page 273 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Reporting Year
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
1
2
3
4
Name of Program
Objective
Timeframe in H.E
Status of Program Implementation
Housing Programs Progress Report  
Describe progress of all programs including local efforts to remove governmental constraints to the maintenance, improvement, and development of housing as identified in the housing 
element.
Table D
Program Implementation Status pursuant to GC Section 65583
H 2.1 Fair Share Housing
 Monitor housing production against 
ABAG Fair Share Allocation. (Regional 
Housing Need Allocation-RHNA)
Annual
See Tables  B and  LEAP of the San Mateo Annual Progress Report
H 2.2 Jobs/Housing 
Balance
Monitor housing production against 
new job creation.
Annual
The City continues to work toward addressing the jobs-housing balance. The 
jobs housing ratio is based upon number of jobs per employed resident and is 
considered balanced the closer the ratio is to 1.00. 
H 2.3 Public Funding of 
Low/Moderate Income 
Housing
1) Set aside 20% of general fund 
property tax revenues from former RDA 
areas aka "Boomerang Funds". 2) 
Assist 50 Extremely Low units. 3) 85 
Very Low units. 4) 10 Low and 60 
Moderate income units.
1) 60 units, July 2015. 2) 
60 units, July 2017. 3) 60 
Units, July 2019. 4) 25 
Units, July 2022. 
City set aside  "boomerang funds" for housing in years 2015-19, but not in 2020 
due to fiscal constrainst of General fund. 1)The lease-up of 60 units of moderate 
units was completed at the 2000 S. Delaware project in 2015. 2) City exectuted 
Development Agreement with BRIDGE Housing to construct 68 family rental units 
targeted to households 30-60% AMI.  Planning approvals were obtained Jan 2018, 
project closed escrow in December 2018, project completd in August 2020, and 
move-ins began in September 2020. 3)The City has also entered into 
adevelopment agreement wtih MidPen for 225 units of affordable housing in 
downtown San Mateo. Entitlements were granted in 2020 with construction 
estimated to start in December 2021. 
H 2.4 Private Development 
of Affordable Housing
1) Maintain Inclusionary Housing 
Requirements on ownership and rental 
residentail developments. 2) Implement 
Commercial Linkage Fee. 
Ongoing
1) City increased the minimum inclusionary requirement from 10% to 15% for its 
BMR program inFebruary  2020.  2)The City participated in a Coutywide Nexus 
study that was completed in September 2015.  City Council  adopted a 
Commercial Linkage Fee ordinance in 2016. All non-housing projects with net 
new construction of 5,000SF or greater are required to pay the fee.
H 2.5 Distribution of 
Low/Mod Housing
Consider during review of applications 
for funding of affordable housing 
projects.
Ongoing
The City’s current Below Market Rate program ensures that affordable housing is 
developed throughout the City rather than in specific areas since it is applied on 
all new housing projects that contain 11 or more units.  Additionally, staff tries to 
avoid concentration of new affordable housing in any given neighborhood. 
H 2.6 Rental Housing
Consider during review of applications 
for multi-family housing.
Ongoing
The decision to develop rental vs. for-sale units in multifamily projects varies with 
the market.  Some developers don't decide whether to sell or rent their units until 
the units are under construction and the market is evaluated at that time.  
H 2.7 Secondary Units
Ensure compliance with regulations, 
architectural standards, and design 
guidelines that promote design 
compatibility with the principle 
residence and the neighborhood, 
provide required parking on-site, and 
minimize privacy impacts on adjoining 
properties.
Ongoing
Consistent with 2016 state housing legislation, the City Council adopted a new 
Accessory Dwelling Unit ordinance in March 2017, which allows for one 
Accessory Dwelling Unit (aka secondary units) as of right within residential 
zoning districts.  Prior to the 2017 ordinance, an average of 2-3 permits were 
issued each year. Between April and December 2017, a total of 16 applications for 
ADU permits were submitted, of which seven projects have been issued building 
permits and the remaining are pending review. In 2018 the City issued building 
permits for 8 ADU and Certificates of Occupancy for 8.   In 2019 , 45 were issued 
permits and 21 were completed. In 2020, 52 were issued permits and 35 were 
completed. The city is working on another revision of the ADU Ordinace to further 
streamline production in 2020. A One-stop webpage was designed to provide a 
user friendly resource  regarding development standards and City developed a 
flat fee for ADU planning applications to limit costs.
H 2.8 Single Room 
Occupancy
Adopt a Single Room Occupancy 
ordinance to allow the development of 
new SRO projects.
2018
The City does not have a Single Room Occupancy ordinance. There were no 
applications for SRO developments during this reporting period. An SRO 
ordinance will be developed in conjunction with any request for development of 
an SRO project.
H 2.9 Multi-Family 
Location
Maintain multi-family zoning on 
specified sites consistent with the Land 
Use Map or Land Use Element policies.
Ongoing
The locations designated in this policy have been designated as multi-family 
residential on the Land Use Map and have been reclassified to a multi-family 
zoning designation.  The City has maintained existing land zoned for multi-family 
use. Multi-family projects have been developed at Bay Meadows and throughout 
the Rail Corridor Plan area.
H 2.10 Housing Densities
Consider policy during the development 
review process.
Ongoing
Regulations to provide for greater density upon provision of public benefits and 
comprehensive multi-family guidelines have not yet been developed.  Both the 
Measure H (1991), Measure P (2004) and Measure Y (2020) voter initiatives 
established density ranges in the City. Project specific amenities are analyzed on 
a case by case basis during the public review process. 
H 2.11 Senior Project 
Location
Consider during review of 
reclassification applications to the 
Senior Citizen Overlay district and 
Residential Care Facility Special Use 
Permits.
Ongoing
The City allows Senior Projects within multi-family and commercially zoned 
properties.   The City continues to promote the development of senior housing 
through its use of the Senior Citizen Overlay District.  The Kimochi Senior Care 
Facility, approved in 2013, was completed during 2016.  
H 2.12 Mixed Use
Permit the construction of housing or 
mixed-use projects in commercial areas. 
Encourage mixed use in specific area 
plans, the El Camino Real Master Plan, 
and the San Mateo Rail Corridor Transit-
Oriented Development Plan. Consider 
designation in future plans for 42 
Avenue. 
Ongoing
Construction of mixed use buildings are permitted in all commercial zoning 
districts.  Applicants developing in specific areas such as the El Camino Real 
Master Plan and San Mateo Corridor Plan areas are encouraged to develop mixed-
use buildings.
Table D  2 of 3 pages
273 of 282

--- page 274 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Reporting Year
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
1
2
3
4
Name of Program
Objective
Timeframe in H.E
Status of Program Implementation
Housing Programs Progress Report  
Describe progress of all programs including local efforts to remove governmental constraints to the maintenance, improvement, and development of housing as identified in the housing 
element.
Table D
Program Implementation Status pursuant to GC Section 65583
H 2.13 Transportation 
Oriented Development
Encourage TOD in locations near transit 
notdes. Ensure that  proposals conform 
to the TODand the San Mateo Rail 
Corridor TOD Plan. 
Ongoing
The San Mateo Rail Corridor Plan Transit-Oriented Development Plan, and a 
subsequent TOD ordinance, was adopted by the City Council in 2005. This 
document and the subsequent specific plan and design guidelines have regulated 
development in the rezoned Transit Oriented Development (TOD) properties. As of 
2020, Bay Meadows has completed 927 units with 218 in the pipeline, Station Park 
Green has built 492 units with 107 under construction. Other projects have 
produced 231 units with 73 unders cosntruction, and 961 have been approved at 
Concar Passage project.
H 2.14 The Homeless
1) Continue support where feasible for 
programs and facilities to prevent 
homelessness. 2) Allow shelters a 
permitted uses in Regional/Community 
Comercial zones. Review Buffer zone 
and amend code if necessary. 3) 
Support home sharing as alternative to 
homelessness.
Ongoing
1) City provides continuous representation and participation on the County 
Continuum of Care focusing on programs for prevention of homelessness and 
services to homeless families & individuals.  City actively participated in 
development of HOPE San Mateo County, the 10-year plan to end homelessness.  
The HOT Program (Housing Outreach Team) started as a first year pilot project in 
2006 focused on developing a Housing First model for chronically homeless 
persons in Downtown San Mateo and has been replicated now throughout the 
county.  The Vendome located downtown,  provides 16 units of permanent 
supportive housing for the most chronic formerly homeless individuals.  First 
Step for Families provide 39 units for emergency and transitional shelter for 
families with children.  2) Zoning Code was amended in 2009 to allow emergency 
shelters in C2 and C3 Districts as a permitted use.  Emergency shelters were also 
made a permitted use for religious institutions located in residential zoned areas. 
The City's Zoning Code designates a 300ft buffer from parks and schools which 
will be removed during this Housing Element, in coordination with the next 
update to the City's Zoning Code. 3) The City supports home sharing through 
funding HIP (Human Investment Project) Housing, a local non-profit whose main 
service is matching home seekers with those offering space for home sharing. 
H 2.15 Open Choice
Continue implementation of the Fair 
Housing Resolution, affirmative 
marketing of city-subsidized housing 
projects, and provision of available 
funding for private nonprofit 
organizations that monitor and provide 
assistance to those experiencing 
discrimination in housing choice.
Ongoing
The City contracts with Project Sentinel to provide Fair Housing services,  
monitoring and investigation.  All housing related projects or services funded by 
the City include affirmative marketing guidelines and are monitored on a regular 
basis. The City began the Assessment of Fair Housing process alongside San 
Mateo County and other entitlement Cities within the county in 2016. The report 
was completed and approved in 2017. 
H 2.16 Special Need 
Groups
1) Continue to support programs 
particularly designed to accommodate 
special needs groups.  2) Consider 
requests for Reasonable 
Accommodations to City zoning code in 
accordance with ordinance.
Ongoing
1) 2015: The City provided financial assitance to 3 nonprofit organizations that 
provided housing, rental assistance and/or housing related servies to variety of 
special needs populations. 2) Reasonable Accommodation Ordinance was 
adopted on 6/16/14.
H 3.1 Sustainable Housing 
Development
Ensure future housing developed in 
sustainable manner.
Ongoing
The City has had a Green Building Ordinance since 2009 and adopted the latest 
state Cal-Green code effective January 2020. It also adopted new reach codes 
effective January 2021 that go beyond the state building codes.  In 2020, the City 
updated its 10 yer Climate Action Plan to implement programs to increase 
energy/water efficiency and decrease auto use to lower green house gas 
emissions.
H 4.1 Energy and Water 
Effeciency
Coordiante countywide marketing 
efforts to promote Property Assessed 
Clean Energy  financing programs to 
residents.
7/1/2015
The City joined 5 PACE programs including California First, HERO, Figtree, 
Ygrene, and Open PACE to provide financing options to homeowners. Information 
about the PACE programs is being promoted through local contractors.
Table D  3 of 3 pages
274 of 282

--- page 275 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Reporting Period
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Description of Commercial 
Development Bonus
Commercial Development Bonus 
Date Approved
3
4
APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Very Low
Income
Low
Income
Moderate
Income
Above Moderate
Income
Description of Commercial 
Development Bonus
Commercial Development Bonus 
Date Approved
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
Units Constructed as Part of Agreement
 Commercial Development Bonus Approved pursuant to GC Section 65915.7
Table E
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Project Identifier
1
2
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation 
formulas
Annual Progress Report  
January 2020
275 of 282

--- page 276 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Reporting Period
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Housing Element Implementation
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation formulas
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Extremely Low-
Income
+
Very Low-Income
+
Low-Income
+
TOTAL UNITS
+
Extremely Low-
Income
+
Very Low-
Income
+
Low-Income
+
TOTAL UNITS
+
Rehabilitation Activity
Preservation of Units At-Risk
Acquisition of Units
Mobilehome Park Preservation
Total Units by Income
Table F 
Please note this table is optional: The jurisdiction can use this table to report units that have been substantially rehabilitated, converted from non-affordable to affordable by acquisition, and preserved, including mobilehome park preservation, consistent with 
the standards set forth in Government Code section 65583.1, subdivision (c). Please note, motel, hotel, hostel rooms or other structures that are converted from non-residential to residential units pursuant to Government Code section 65583.1(c)(1)(D) are 
considered net-new housing units and must be reported in Table A2 and not reported in Table F.
Activity Type
Units that Do Not Count Towards RHNA
+
Listed for Informational Purposes Only
Units that Count Towards RHNA 
+
Note - Because the statutory requirements severely limit what can be 
counted, please contact HCD to receive the password that will enable you 
to populate these fields.
The description should adequately document how each 
unit complies with subsection (c) of Government Code 
Section 65583.1
+
Units Rehabilitated, Preserved and Acquired for Alternative Adequate Sites pursuant to Government Code section 65583.1(c) 
Annual Progress Report  
January 2020
276 of 282

--- page 277 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Reporting Period
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Housing Element Implementation
2
3
4
APN
Street Address
Project Name+
Local Jurisdiction 
Tracking ID+
Realistic Capacity 
Identified in the 
Housing Element
Entity to whom the site 
transferred
Intended Use for Site
1
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
Note: "+" indicates an optional field
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation 
formulas
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Table G
Locally Owned Lands Included in the Housing Element Sites Inventory that have been sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of
Project Identifier
NOTE: This table must only be filled out if the housing element sites 
inventory contains a site which is or was owned by the reporting 
jurisdiction, and has been sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of 
during the reporting year.
277 of 282

--- page 278 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Note: "+" indicates 
an optional field
Reporting Period
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 
31)
Cells in grey contain 
auto-calculation 
formulas
Designation
Size
Notes
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
APN
Street Address/Intersection
Existing Use
Number of 
Units
Surplus 
Designation
Parcel Size (in 
acres)
Notes
Summary Row: Start Data Entry Below
Parcel Identifier
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Housing Element Implementation
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Table H
Locally Owned Surplus Sites
278 of 282

--- page 279 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Reporting Year
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Current Year
Deed Restricted
3
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
1
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
0
Non-Deed Restricted
0
92
96
0
1,480
1,480
0
0
0
0
0
Income 
Rental
Ownership
Total
Very Low
0
0
0
Low
0
0
0
Moderate
0
0
0
Above Moderate
0
0
0
Total
0
0
0
Cells in grey contain auto-calculation formulas
Very Low
Low
Moderate
Above Moderate
Units Constructed - SB 35 Streamlining Permits
Number of Streamlining Applications Approved
Total Developments Approved with Streamlining
Total Units Constructed with Streamlining
Total Housing Applications Submitted:
Number of Proposed Units in All Applications Received:
Total Housing Units Approved:
Total Housing Units Disapproved:
Total Units
Housing Applications Summary
Use of SB 35 Streamlining Provisions
Note: Units serving extremely low-income households are included in the very low-
income permitted units totals
Number of Applications for Streamlining
Building Permits Issued by Affordability Summary
Income Level
279 of 282

--- page 280 ---
Jurisdiction
San Mateo
Reporting Year
2020
(Jan. 1 - Dec. 31)
Total Award Amount
Total award amount is auto-populated based on amounts entered in rows 15-26.
Task
 $ Amount Awarded
$ Cumulative Reimbursement 
Requested
Other 
Funding
Notes
Summary of entitlements, building permits, and certificates of occupancy (auto-populated from Table A2)
Current Year
Deed Restricted
180
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
145
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
0
Non-Deed Restricted
0
1155
1480
Current Year
Deed Restricted
3
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
1
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
0
Non-Deed Restricted
0
92
96
Current Year
Deed Restricted
99
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
17
Non-Deed Restricted
0
Deed Restricted
0
Non-Deed Restricted
0
487
603
Moderate
Above Moderate
Total Units
Completed Entitlement Issued by Affordability Summary
Income Level
Very Low
Low
Moderate
Above Moderate
Total Units
Building Permits Issued by Affordability Summary
Income Level
Very Low
Low
Total Units
Certificate of Occupancy Issued by Affordability Summary
Income Level
Very Low
Low
Moderate
Above Moderate
ANNUAL ELEMENT PROGRESS REPORT
Local Early Action Planning (LEAP) Reporting
(CCR Title 25 §6202)
Please update the status of the proposed uses listed in the entity’s application for funding and the corresponding impact on housing within the region or jurisdiction, as applicable, categorized based on the eligible uses specified in Section 
50515.02 or 50515.03, as applicable.
-
$                                                                                                                                      
Task Status
280 of 282

--- page 281 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  15
Section Name: NEW BUSINESS
File ID: 21-4430
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 15, 2021 
SUBJECT:
County of San Mateo Homelessness Initiatives
RECOMMENDATION:
Receive an informational report on the County of San Mateo's strategic initiatives to address homelessness and its 
consideration of the purchase of two motels in San Mateo.
BACKGROUND:
The County of San Mateo is committed to reaching a functional zero level of homelessness, where every unsheltered 
person in San Mateo County who chooses assistance can be sheltered in an emergency shelter or in temporary or 
permanent housing.  Having sufficient shelter capacity is a critical part of reaching functional zero, as well as having 
sufficient and effective housing-focused supports (housing-focused case management at shelters, housing locator support, 
homeless outreach services, rapid rehousing, permanent supportive housing, etc.). The County’s acquisitions of hotels to 
create new shelter/housing programs will make significant strides toward reaching functional zero.
The County is currently in the due diligence process for the purchase of two motels in San Mateo on El Camino Real.  An 
appraisal of the value of the properties is currently underway, and the Planning Commission will be holding a hearing on 
conformance with the City’s General Plan on March 23rd.  Should the sale proceed, the next step would be for the County 
to host a community meeting to provide detail on its plan for the use of the properties, both in the short and long term.
Further, the Coordinated Entry System (CES) is designed to ensure streamlined access to San Mateo County’s homeless 
crisis response system for people experiencing homelessness and to ensure they are matched to an appropriate 
intervention to end their homelessness, based on their vulnerability and housing barriers and based on available 
resources.  CES was adopted as part of the County’s strategic plan to end homelessness to serve as the “front door” of the 
homeless crisis response system.  People experiencing homelessness can contact one of the eight Core Service Agencies 
located throughout the County in order to be connected to CES for diversion/housing problem solving, assessment, and if 
needed, referrals to shelter and other resources. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact from receiving this informational report.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This informational report is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
281 of 282

--- page 282 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
None
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
282 of 282