source: packet.pdf
sha256: cac0daf61044efdd9c77467a7cdf8f4b33b1d188b6deecc8ee3fafcb540ca3f1
pages: 247
ocr_pages: 17
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
City Council Regular Meeting
March 6, 2023
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
 
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING. 
To join via Zoom – click here: March 6, 2023
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968      
Webinar ID: 858 6440 1233      Passcode: 991086
The City Council meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by council vote. 
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting. 
Council Member Lisa Diaz Nash will teleconference into this meeting from:
364-1, Naoshima, Kagawa District, Kagawa 761-3110, Japan
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
CONSENT CALENDAR
All matters listed under the Consent Calendar are considered by the Council to be routine and will be enacted by one motion without
discussion. If discussion is desired, that item may be removed and considered separately.
 
1.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council special and regular meetings of February 21, 2023.
CEQA: This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
2.
Youth Commissioners to the Park and Recreation Commission – Ordinance Adoption
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.27 “Park and Recreation Commission” to
provide for Council appointment of two non-voting youth advisory members.
CEQA: This ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
1 of 247

--- page 2 ---
3.
Peninsula Clean Energy Public EV Fleets Program – Customer Participation Agreement
Approve a Customer Participation Agreement with Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) for participation in PCE’s Public
Electric Vehicle Fleets Program at no cost to the City and authorize the Public Works Director to enter into the
agreement.
CEQA: This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
4.
Stormwater Funding Analysis – Agreement
Approve an agreement with SCI Consulting Group for professional services for Stormwater Funding Analysis in an
amount not to exceed $205,949; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $20,000; and authorize the
Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders
within the contingency amount.
CEQA: This Stormwater Funding Analysis project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational
or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
5.
Collaborative Solutions, LLC, Workday Lean-On Services Support – Budget Appropriation and Statement of Work
Approval
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of unassigned fund balance in the General
Fund of $112,650 to increase the Finance Department’s 2022-23 operating budget, and to approve the Statement
of Work for the Master Services Agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for Workday Lean-On Services
Support in the amount of $112,650, for a new agreement total of $2,979,545. Approval of the Statement of Work
and a separate agenda item with Collaborative Solutions, LLC will result in a new agreement total of $3,381,765.
CEQA: Approval of the Statement of Work for Workday Lean-On Services Support and adoption of a resolution
increasing the Finance Department’s 2022-23 operating budget is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an
organizational or administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the
environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
6.
Collaborative Solutions, LLC Enterprise Planning System Implementation Services – Supplemental Budget
Appropriation and Change Order
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $325,852 of unassigned fund balance
from the Equipment Replacement Fund, $59,517 of unassigned fund balance from the Sewer Fund, and $16,851
of unassigned fund balance from the Construction Services Fund to increase the budget for the Enterprise
Resource Planning Software Project, and to approve Change Order No. 4 to the master services agreement with
Collaborative Solutions, LLC for enterprise resource planning system implementation services in the amount of
$402,220, for a new agreement total of $3,269,115. Approval of Change Order No. 4 and a separate agenda item
with Collaborative Solutions, LLC will result in a new agreement total of $3,381,765.
CEQA: This change order is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity
that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)
(5).)
7.
E-Verify for Web Services Employers – Memorandum of Understanding
Approve the Department of Homeland Security‘s E-Verify Memorandum of Understanding for Web Services
Employers, and authorize the Human Resources Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form
2 of 247

--- page 3 ---
presented.
CEQA: This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
8.
​Police Department Serological Expenses for Forensic DNA Testing of Evidence – Change Order
Approve a change order to the San Mateo Police Department’s purchase order with Serological Research Institute
for an additional $20,900 to cover the estimated remaining cost of service through June 2023 for forensic DNA
testing of evidence for investigation purposes, bringing the total amount authorized for fiscal year 2022-23 to
$110,900.
CEQA: This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
9.
Congressionally Directed Spending Request For 19th Avenue/Fashion Island Boulevard Class IV Bikeway Project –
Letters of Support
Authorize the Mayor to sign letters of support on behalf of the City of San Mateo to Senator Dianne Feinstein,
Senator Alex Padilla, and Representative Kevin Mullin for the San Mateo County Transportation Authority's
request for congressionally directed spending for the 19th Avenue/Fashion Island Boulevard Class IV Bikeway
Project.
CEQA: Authorizing these letters of support is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA
Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
10.
Congressionally Directed Spending Projects/Community Funded Projects – Letters of Support
Authorize letters of support signed by Mayor Lee to be submitted to Senator Feinstein, Senator Padilla, and
Representative Mullin for Congressionally Directed Spending/Community Funded projects in San Mateo.
CEQA: This administrative action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section
15378(b)(5).)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Members of the public wishing to comment on any item not appearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this time. State
law prevents Council from taking action on any matter not on the agenda; your comments may be referred to staff for follow up.
Public comment is limited to a total of 15 minutes; however, an opportunity for additional public comment may be provided later in
the agenda.
 
OLD BUSINESS
11.
General Plan Update – Land Use Heights and Densities and Measure Y
Provide direction on: 1) The densities and heights that should be incorporated into the General Plan Update’s
Land Use Element; 2) How Measure Y should be incorporated into the General Plan Update; and 3) Additional
land use and housing policy revisions that should be incorporated into the General Plan Update.
CEQA: This study session is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty that this activity
will not cause a physical change in the environment.
 
3 of 247

--- page 4 ---
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members report on their various assignments and liaison roles and Council requests for
scheduling future items.
 
ADJOURNMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Council Meeting and can be viewed on the City's
website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Council after the posting of the agenda will be made part of the
official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.
For transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099. For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday,
8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: clerk@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the City Clerk’s Office at (650) 522-7040 or clerk@cityofsanmateo.org . Notification 48 hours prior to the meeting will
enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.
4 of 247

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1111
File ID: 23-7266
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the minutes of the City Council special and regular meetings of February 21, 2023.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This minutes approval is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Minutes 2023-02-21 Special
Att 2 - Minutes 2023-02-21 Regular
STAFF CONTACT
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
polds@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7042
5 of 247

--- page 6 ---
City Council Special Meeting Minutes – 2/21/2023
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Special Meeting Minutes
City Council
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
 
February 21, 2023
City Hall Council Chambers 5:30 PM
Special Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 5:30 p.m.
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Council Member: Loraine
Council Member Hedges teleconferenced from: 2405 Kalanianaole Avenue – PH-11 Hilo, Hawaii 96720
Council Member Newsom arrived at 5:41 p.m.
CLOSED SESSION
Following the opportunity for public comment, there were no speakers, the City Council convened into Closed Session to 
consider:
1.
Conference with Legal Counsel – Existing Litigation, Worker’s Compensation
(Paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Government Code Section 54956.9. Name of claimant: Brian Hedley.
The City Council reconvened at 5:39 p.m.
STUDY SESSION
2.
Campaign Contribution Limits Review
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk, provided a presentation on the charter requirement to review Charter 
section 2.80 within 90 days of certification of a candidate election. Presentation also included review of the 
updated Campaign Dashboard and a discussion around the potential impacts of AB1439. Council asked questions 
of staff.
Public comment – there were no speakers.
The majority of the Council agreed with keeping existing limits; and expressed an interest in looking at other 
campaign finance models in the future.
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 6:25 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Amourence Lee, Mayor                      
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
6 of 247

--- page 7 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/21/2023
Page 1
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Amourence Lee, Mayor
Lisa Diaz Nash, Deputy Mayor
Rich Hedges
Adam Loraine
Rob Newsom Jr.
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Regular Meeting Minutes
City Council Meeting
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
February 21, 2023
City Hall Council Chambers 7:00 PM
Regular Meeting
 
CALL TO ORDER at 7:00 p.m.
Pledge of Allegiance
Roll Call
Present:
Mayor Lee, Deputy Mayor Diaz Nash, Council Members: Loraine and Newsom
Council Member Rich Hedges teleconferenced from: 2405 Kalanianaole Avenue – PH-11 Hilo, Hawaii 96720
CEREMONIAL
1.
Black History Month – Proclamation – Rev. Lorrie Carter Owens, President, NAACP San Mateo Branch #1068, 
received the proclamation.
2.
HIP Housing (Human Investment Project, Inc.) – Calendar Presentation – HIP Housing outlined the annual calendar 
program, and recognized Eberson as a youth student artist from San Mateo. 
CONSENT CALENDAR
The following items, 3 through 5 and 7 through 12, were considered to be routine by the City Council. Item 6 was 
removed to be considered separately. After the titles of the items were read by the Deputy City Clerk, the public was 
invited to comment and there were no speakers. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved:
Hedges, Seconded: Diaz Nash
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
3.
City Council Meeting Minutes - Approval
Approve the minutes of the City Council special and regular meeting of February 6, 2023 and special 
meeting of February 11, 2023.
4.
Fiesta Meadows Park Restroom Remodel – Contract
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure to award a construction contract to 
Newton Construction & Management, Inc. to remodel the public restrooms at Fiesta Meadows Park in 
the amount of $198,780.47; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $30,000; and authorize 
the Public Works Director to execute the contract in substantially the form presented and issue change 
orders within the contingency amount.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 16 (2023)
7 of 247

--- page 8 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/21/2023
Page 2
5.
Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project – Agreement
Approve an agreement with GSW Construction, Inc. for the Poplar at Golf Course Trash Capture Project 
in the amount of $519,938; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $52,000; and authorize the 
Public Works Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change 
orders within the amount of the contingency reserve.
7.
General Plan Update – Supplemental Budget Appropriation and Contract Amendment
Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $79,340 from the Advance Planning Fund to the General Plan Update 
project; approve Amendment No. 4 to the agreement with PlaceWorks Inc. for the General Plan Update 
to modify the scope of work and increase the contract amount by $79,340 for a total not to exceed of 
$2,617,410 for the purpose of completing a Climate Action Plan Technical Update for General Plan 
consistency; and authorize the City Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form 
presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 17 (2023)
8.
360 1st Avenue – Second Lease Amendment
Approve the second amendment for the lease at 360 1st Avenue in the Main Street Garage with A+ 
Mailboxes & More to allow additional rent concessions due to water damage and authorize the City 
Manager to execute the amendment in substantially the form presented.
9.
Borel Park – Deed Restriction
Adopt a Resolution to approve and authorize recordation of a deed restriction, satisfying the Land 
Water Conservation Fund grant application requirements enabling the City to receive $673,000 towards 
reimbursement for construction costs for the creation of Borel Park, and authorize the Mayor to sign the 
deed restriction in substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 18 (2023)
10.
Personal Computer Replacements – Purchase
Adopt a Resolution to approve an alternative purchasing procedure and approve a Master Purchasing 
Agreement with Lenovo Inc. for the purchase of personal computers in an amount not-to-exceed 
$231,632.78; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $34,744.92, for a total amount of 
$266,377.70; and authorize the Director of Information Technology to execute the agreement in 
substantially the form presented.
Enactment:  Resolution No. 19 (2023)
11.
Fiscal Year 2021-22 Single Audit – Acceptance
Accept the Single Audit for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022.
12.
1654 S. Grant St. Unit #2 – Property Owner Appeal of Permanent Relocation Benefits
Adopt a Statement of Decision denying the appeal and upholding the notice to reimburse the City for 
permanent relocation benefits to a tenant who resides at 1654 S. Grant Street, Unit #2.
END OF CONSENT CALENDAR
REMOVED FROM CONSENT CALENDAR
8 of 247

--- page 9 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/21/2023
Page 3
6.
US 101/State Route 92 Interchange and Multimodal Improvements Project – Letter of Support
Council Member Hedges pulled this item for a public highlighting of the project. Public Works Director 
Mitch provided highlights.
Motion to Authorize the Mayor to sign a letter of support on behalf of the City of San Mateo to Secretary 
of Transportation Pete Buttigieg for the San Mateo County Transportation Authority's requests for grant 
funding. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved: Hedges, Seconded: Lee
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
PUBLIC COMMENT
Henry Jason, Jr. stated concern with building code updates needed for earthquake concerns.
OLD BUSINESS
13.
Youth Commissioners to the Park and Recreation Commission – Ordinance Introduction
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk, provided a presentation on the Council priorities request for two 
non-voting youth seats on the Park and Recreation Commission. He outlined the code changes and 
requirements of at least 13 years old and no more than 17 years old at time of appointment. Must have 
parental or guardian consent. Council asked questions of staff.
Public Comment – Owen Day is in favor of uplifting the voices of young people in support. Isabelle 
Escobar, college student, requested more youth voices on other Boards and Commissions.
Motion to Introduce an ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.27 “Park and 
Recreation Commission” to provide for Council appointment of two non-voting youth advisory 
members. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved: Lee, Seconded: Hedges
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
14
Winter Storm Flood Relief Fund – Appropriation and Agreement
Drew Corbett, City Manager, provided a presentation outlining actions taken in response to Council 
direction from the February 6, 2023 Council meeting to include $150,000 contribution, administration 
of the fund by Samaritan House, and up to $5,000 of relief funds available per household/business. He 
described the proposed tier program including waiver of permit fees in certain situations. Council asked 
questions of staff.
Public Comment – there were no speakers.
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to appropriate $150,000 from the General Fund's unassigned fund 
balance to the City Manager's Office operating budget to fund the City's contribution to a winter storm 
flood disaster relief fund; to authorize the waiver of related permitting fees; and authorize the City 
Manager to amend as necessary and enter into an agreement with Samaritan House to review relief 
request applications and distribute funding in substantially the form presented.
Moved: Lee, Seconded: Hedges
9 of 247

--- page 10 ---
City Council Regular Meeting Minutes – 2/21/2023
Page 4
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 20 (2023)
NEW BUSINESS
15.
City Manager, City Attorney, Department Head and Deputy Director Compensation Plan – Amendment
Mayor Lee provided a brief presentation stating that as required by California Government Code Section 
54953(c)(3), the following is a summary of the recommended final action on changes to the salaries, salary 
schedules, and fringe benefit compensation for the City’s department heads and deputy directors effective March 
5, 2023. The salary ranges for Department Head and Deputy Director classifications shall be increased by four 
percent. Department Head classifications and the City Attorney shall accrue 48 hours per year of executive leave. 
There were no questions by Council.
Public Comment - Danielle Cwirko-Godycki expressed that no Department Heads should receive a salary increase. 
City Manager Corbett and Human Resources Director Abrahamsohn responded.
Motion to Adopt a Resolution to amend the Compensation Plan to include salary increases for department heads 
and deputy directors and add the Executive Leave benefit to accrue forty-eight (48) hours per year of executive 
leave for department heads, effective March 5, 2023. Motion passed 5-0.
Moved: Loraine, Seconded: Newsom
Ayes: 
Lee, Diaz Nash, Hedges, Loraine, and Newsom
Noes: 
None
Enactment:  Resolution No. 21 (2023)
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
City Manager, City Attorney and Council Members reported on their various assignments and liaison roles. City Manager 
Corbett informed of recent storm matters and how the City responded. Fire Chief Kent Thrasher also expressed on the 
Fire Departments responses. Council Member Loraine gave his updates, highlights, and his appointment to C/CAG. Mayor 
Lee wanted a tally among the Council Members of who was interested in attending the NAACP Gala on 3/12/23 and 
suggested the City of San Mateo take out a one-page ad in the program for $300 – majority supported this. 
ADJOURNMENT –The meeting adjourned at 8:22 p.m.
APPROVED BY:                                                        
SUBMITTED BY:
Amourence Lee, Mayor                                           
Patrice Olds, City Clerk
10 of 247

--- page 11 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1511
File ID: 23-7161-01
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Clerk's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Youth Commissioners to the Park and Recreation Commission – Ordinance Adoption
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt an Ordinance to amend San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.27 “Park and Recreation Commission” to provide for 
Council appointment of two non-voting youth advisory members. 
BACKGROUND:
On February 21, 2023, the City Council introduced the attached proposed ordinance (Attachment 1) to amend San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 2.27 “Park and Recreation Commission” to provide for Council appointment of two non-voting 
youth advisory members. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budget impact associated with this administrative action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This ordinance adoption is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will 
not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Ordinance
STAFF CONTACT
Martin McTaggart, Deputy City Clerk
mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7044
11 of 247

--- page 12 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
DRAFT ORDINANCE
An Ordinance amending San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.27 to amend the organization of the Park and 
Recreation Commission to include two non-voting youth advisory members (youth commissioners).
WHEREAS, San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 2.27 establishes that the San Mateo Park and Recreation 
Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the City Council; and
WHEREAS, the City Council Strategic Plan for fiscal year 2022-23 included exploring the expanding of 
youth participation and representation on Boards and Commissions; and
WHEREAS, on October 3, 2022, the City Council provided direction during a special meeting to add non-
voting youth members to the Park and Recreation Commission. 
NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Section 2.27.010 and Section 2.27.020 of the San Mateo Municipal Code are amended as follows:
Chapter 2.27
PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION
2.27.010
ORGANIZATION.
A park and recreation commission shall continue as heretofore established in and for the City, to be 
known and designated as the "San Mateo park and recreation commission." It shall consist of five members 
appointed by the Council, and two non-voting youth advisory members who must be at least 13 years old, and 
no more than 17 years old at the time of appointment (“Youth Commissioners”). Youth Commissioners must 
present written documentation of parental or guardian consent to be considered for appointment. Youth 
commissioners shall serve only in an advisory capacity and shall not count towards a quorum of the commission.  
Each member of the commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Council for a term of four years and 
until the appointment and qualification of a successor.  Each Youth Commissioner shall serve at the pleasure of 
the Council for a term of one year and until the appointment and qualification of a successor. Youth 
Commissioners may be reappointed for one additional one-year term.
2.27.020
MEETINGS.
The commission shall meet monthly at a time and place to be fixed by it, shall elect a chair and vice-
chair, and may adopt rules for its proceedings. It may hold special meetings upon call of the chair or two 
members upon written notice as required by the public meeting law.
Section 2. Environmental Determination. In accordance with California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
Guidelines, section 15378(b)(5).), this action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment.
12 of 247

--- page 13 ---
Section 3. Severability. In the event any section, clause or provision of this ordinance shall be determined 
invalid or unconstitutional, such section, clause or provision shall be deemed severable and all other sections or 
portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 4. Publication. This Ordinance shall be published in summary in a newspaper of general circulation, 
posted in the City Clerk's Office, and posted on the City's website, all in accord with Section 2.15 of the City 
Charter.
Section 5. Legislative History and Effective Date. This ordinance was introduced on Clerk to complete., and 
adopted on Clerk to complete., and shall be effective 30 days after its adoption.
Place attachments here
13 of 247

--- page 14 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  3
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 82-4683
File ID: 23-7200
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Peninsula Clean Energy Public EV Fleets Program – Customer Participation Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a Customer Participation Agreement with Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) for participation in PCE’s Public Electric 
Vehicle Fleets Program at no cost to the City and authorize the Public Works Director to enter into the agreement.
BACKGROUND:
Peninsula Clean Energy (PCE) has developed the Public Electric Vehicle (EV) Fleets Program to provide public fleets in San 
Mateo County with fleet electrification transition services at no cost to public agencies. The City was selected as one of 
four cities to participate in PCE’s Public EV Fleets Program. 
The goal of the program is to provide technical assistance, project planning, and funding to public agencies for both new 
electric vehicles and charging infrastructure for their fleets. The EV Fleets Program will offer: 1) a vehicle replacement plan; 
2) an energy needs assessment; 3) a charging infrastructure plan; 4) permit-ready site designs; 5) a charging schedule and 
optimization plan; and 6) identification of relevant funding streams. 
This program aligns with the City’s goal to electrify the City Fleet by 2030, and these technical services will assist the City in 
strategizing and planning for the transition for both vehicles and infrastructure. Based on the above, staff recommends 
entering into the Customer Participation Agreement with PCE.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact for participation in the EV Fleets Program. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This agreement is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Customer Participation Agreement
14 of 247

--- page 15 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
STAFF CONTACT
Jimmy Vo, Senior Engineer
jvo@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7319
Andrea Chow, Sustainability Analyst
achow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7007
Sydney Chow, Assistant Engineer
schow@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7331
15 of 247

--- page 16 ---
PUBLIC EV FLEETS PROGRAM 
 
 
1 of 2 
 
 
11.01.22 
 
Public EV Fleets 
Customer Participation Agreement  
CUSTOMER PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT 
The Public EV Fleets Program (“Program”), offered by Peninsula Clean Energy Authority (“PCE”) and PCE-selected 
contractors will provide public fleets with fleet electrification transition services and/or funding, as described further below.  
Specific Terms and Conditions 
 
Eligibility: To participate in the Program, customers must: 1) be a PCE customer, 2) be a public agency such as a city, 
county, special district, joint-powers authority, school district, etc., and 3) have customer-owned fleet vehicles domiciled in 
Peninsula Clean Energy service territory. 
 
Minimum Commitment: To participate in the Program, customers must also commit to a project scope that plans to 
replace a minimum of 5 fossil-fuel vehicles with electric vehicles (EVs) and/or install a minimum of 5 EV charging ports 
within one year from the initial kick off meeting with PCE and the customer.  
 
Program Services Offered: The Program is offering the following services at no cost to customers. Customers may 
receive all or a subset of these services, at PCE’s discretion. 1) vehicle replacement plan, 2) energy needs assessment, 
3) charging infrastructure plan for 1 or more locations, 4) permit-ready site designs, 5) charging schedule and optimization 
plan, 6) funding package overview, and 7) PCE-identified energy management system and ongoing services. Note, 
warranties and operations support for equipment and energy management system will be the responsibility of the 
customer as arranged with the specific vendors of those systems. 
 
Program Funding Offered: Funding is available for customers, subject to the additional terms outlined below, at the 
amounts outlined herein. Funding amounts from PCE in this Program are based on the remaining Project costs after other 
funding such as grants and rebates are applied, as follows: Local agencies (city, county, special district, etc.) may receive 
funding up to 25% of remaining project costs, after other grants and incentives are applied, or an amount not to exceed 
$25,000 (whichever is less). School districts may receive funding up to 50% of project costs, after other grants and 
incentives are applied, or an amount not to exceed $50,000 (whichever is less) for projects with a remaining project cost 
of less than $100,000 and up to 50% of project costs, after grants and incentives are applied, or an amount not to exceed 
$100,000 (whichever is less) for projects with a remaining cost greater than $100,000.  
 
Eligible Expenses for Funding: Measures eligible for funding in this Program include: 1) electric vehicles (only the cost 
difference between a fossil fuel vehicle and its comparable electric alternative, as applicable), 2) EV charging equipment, 
including warranties, service contracts, and/or subscription fees, 3) installation costs for EV infrastructure, and 4) energy 
management subscription costs. Additional eligible expenses and all determinations of Program eligibility are determined 
and approved at PCE’s sole discretion.  
 
Stacked Funding: Customers are allowed to combine funding from PCE and other organizations such as investor-owned 
utilities, Air Districts, state rebates, etc. In no event shall the combined funding from PCE and third parties exceed 100% 
of total project costs. PCE funding may be reduced to avoid customer’s receipt of an excess of 100% of total project cost.  
 
No Double Dipping: Customers receiving other funding from PCE, including, but not limited to the EV Ready Program, 
for the same project locations that are included in the Public EV Fleets Program are not eligible to receive additional 
funding from the Public EV Fleets Program.   
 
Dedicated Point of Contact: Customer agrees to provide a dedicated point of contact to PCE and its contractors for 
coordination purposes throughout the project.  
 
Access: Customer agrees to coordinate visits to its facilities with PCE and its contractors, as needed, to collect 
information to prepare EV charging infrastructure installation plans.  
 
Fleet Composition, Facilities Information, and Energy Data: Customer agrees to share information with PCE and its 
contractors regarding fleet composition and usage, including asset inventories, fueling records, duty cycles, mileage 
readings, etc., as available, facilities information such as-builts or architectural designs, panel schedules, single-line 
diagrams, as available, and historical energy data for facilities that may install charging in this Program.  
 
Ownership of Information: PCE may provide the customer with project deliverables in this Program, such as fleet 
analyses, charging assessments, project plans, energy optimization schedules, etc., but PCE shall have all ownership 
rights, including exclusive copyright ownership, for all work products from these services, data, reports, research results, 
16 of 247

--- page 17 ---
PUBLIC EV FLEETS PROGRAM 
 
 
2 of 2 
 
 
11.01.22 
 
Public EV Fleets 
Customer Participation Agreement  
CUSTOMER PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT 
summaries, information, or other written, recorded, photographic, or visual materials (hereinafter “information”) produced 
and collected during the term of this Agreement. This information may be used in further marketing of the program or as 
case study information to educate other stakeholders on fleet electrification strategies. 
 
Ongoing Data: Customer agrees to provide PCE access to EV charging data through the charging operator’s online 
portal or other system to be determined and share EV charging data with PCE for a minimum of three (3) years.  
 
General Terms and Conditions 
 
Release of Claims Against, and Hold Harmless of, Peninsula Clean Energy Authority and Contractors: Customer 
discharges and releases PCE, its contractors and their officers, employers, employees, and agents from and against any 
and all claims, demands, liabilities, obligations, damages or chose in action, legal or equitable, of whatever kind or nature, 
including negligence by PCE, its contractors, in which Customer, and Customer’s successors in interest, heirs, estates or 
personal representatives, or family members, now may have or assert, or may have had in the past or may have in the 
future, against PCE, its contractors as the result of, based upon, arising out of, or connected with PCE, its contractor’s 
involvement with the Program. Customer is on notice of and hereby specifically and expressly waives the provisions of 
California Civil Code § 1542, which provides that a “general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not 
know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially 
affected his settlement with the debtor.” Customer also agrees to indemnify and hold harmless PCE, its contractors from 
any and all claims, actions, suits, procedures, costs, expenses, damages, and liabilities, including attorney’s fees and 
costs, brought as a result of PCE, its contractor’s involvement with the Program, and to reimburse Peninsula Clean 
Energy Authority, its contractors for any such expenses incurred. 
 
Incidental and Consequential Damages: BOTH PARTIES AGREE NEITHER PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE TO THE 
OTHER FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES. 
 
Compliance with Laws: Customer shall comply with all federal, state, and municipal laws, ordinances, rules, orders, and 
regulations which apply to its actions. 
 
No Obligation:  Customer is not obligated to purchase any service or other service not funded by this Program, through 
Peninsula Clean Energy Authority. 
 
Availability of Funds: This program is available at PCE’s discretion, until allocated funds are depleted. This Program 
may be modified or terminated without notice. 
 
Customer:  
I CERTIFY THAT I have read and understood the Participation Agreement. I certify that the information I have 
provided is true and correct.  
 
Customer Name: ______________________________ Customer Signature: __________________________   
Date: _____________ 
Customer Address: ___________________________________________ City: _______________________ 
Zip Code: ___________ 
Customer Phone:  ______________________________   Customer Email: ___________________________ 
 
 
17 of 247

--- page 18 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  4
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4679
File ID: 23-7229
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 6, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Stormwater Funding Analysis – Agreement
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve an agreement with SCI Consulting Group for professional services for Stormwater Funding Analysis in an amount 
not to exceed $205,949; establish a contingency reserve in the amount of $20,000; and authorize the Public Works 
Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented and issue change orders within the contingency 
amount.
BACKGROUND:
On October 19, 2019, Public Works entered into a professional services agreement with SCI Consulting Group (SCI) for the 
development of a Stormwater Funding Analysis. The term of the original agreement was specified as ending on December 
31, 2020. The original agreement has had two approved amendments since, as described below. It was recently discovered 
that during the amendment process the term of the agreement was not extended as part of Amendment No. 1 or 
Amendment No. 2; although additional scope of work and funding were approved. Staff is recommending Council approve 
a new agreement with SCI, with a contract term through December 31, 2024, and with the same terms and conditions for 
the previously approved scope of work and funds. No new scope of work or funds are being requested with this approval; 
although it is expected that contingency money will be needed to complete this project. 
The original agreement authorized three tasks: 1) evaluation of projected financial needs; 2) evaluation of potential 
funding sources; and 3) revenue options and recommendations. The original scope of work was for $54,907. The Public 
Works Director authorized Amendment No. 1 on March 9, 2021 in the amount of $5,490 for additional consulting time. 
The City Council approved Amendment No. 2 to the agreement on August 16, 2021, adding $145,552, for a new agreement 
total of $205,949; and authorized a contingency of $20,000. Amendment No. 2 included community polling, a Proposition 
218-compliant property-related fee engineering and nexus/justification report (Fee Report), and assistance with public 
information and educational outreach strategies. 
The work within this agreement scope has been ongoing since October 2019. Staff presented an overview of stormwater 
activities to the Sustainability and Infrastructure Commission (SIC) in December 2020; and continued to work with SCI 
Consulting Group on the funding analysis. At the February 2021 SIC meeting, staff presented a draft Stormwater Funding 
Analysis Report. The Stormwater Funding Analysis Report, along with feedback from the SIC, were presented to the City 
Council during the May 17, 2021, study session. A community polling survey and initial community outreach were 
completed in December 2021. Staff presented the survey results to the SIC on March 9, 2022, and to City Council on May 
21, 2022. Staff will be presenting a detailed overview of the Stormwater Funding Analysis project, a status update, and 
next steps to City Council on March 20, 2023. 
18 of 247

--- page 19 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
Sufficient funding is available in the Storm System Dredging Project (468005) for this agreement amendment.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This Stormwater Funding Analysis project is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Agreement
STAFF CONTACT
Sarah Scheidt, Regulatory Compliance Manager - Engineering Division
sscheidt@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7385
19 of 247

--- page 20 ---
Signing In Process
Professional Services 
Rev 9/22 
AGREEMENT WITH SCI CONSULTING GROUP 
FOR PROFESSIONAL CONSULTANT SERVICES 
FOR STORMWATER FUNDING ANALYSIS 
This Agreement, made and entered into this day of ____________________, by and between 
the CITY OF SAN MATEO, a municipal corporation existing under the laws of the State of California 
(“CITY”), and SCI Consulting Group, a corporation (“CONSULTANT”), whose address is 4745 Mangels 
Blvd., Fairfield, CA 94534. 
RECITALS: 
A. CITY desires certain professional consulting services hereinafter described.
B. CITY desires to engage CONSULTANT to provide these professional consulting
services by reason of its qualifications and experience for performing such services and CONSULTANT 
has offered to provide the required services on the terms and in the manner set forth herein. 
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS AGREED as follows: 
SECTION 1 - SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The scope of services to be performed by CONSULTANT under this Agreement is as described in 
Exhibit A and A1 to this Agreement, attached and incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 2 - DUTIES OF CONSULTANT 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for the professional quality, technical accuracy and 
coordination of all work furnished by CONSULTANT under this Agreement.  CONSULTANT shall, without 
additional compensation, correct or revise any errors or deficiencies in its work. 
CONSULTANT represents that it is qualified to furnish the services described under this 
Agreement. 
CONSULTANT shall be responsible for employing or engaging all persons necessary to perform 
the services of CONSULTANT. 
CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the City’s minimum wage ordinance as codified in 
Municipal Code Chapter 5.92, which differs from the state minimum wage and includes a Consumer 
Price Index escalator. 
SECTION 3 - DUTIES OF CITY 
CITY shall provide pertinent information regarding its requirements for the project. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
20 of 247

--- page 21 ---
Signing In Process
Professional Services 
Rev 9/22 
CITY shall examine documents submitted by CONSULTANT and shall render decisions pertaining 
thereto promptly, to avoid unreasonable delay in the progress of CONSULTANT's work. 
SECTION 4 - TERM 
The services are to commence upon execution of the agreement, and be completed on 
December 31, 2024. 
SECTION 5 - PAYMENT 
Payment shall be made by CITY only for services rendered and upon submission of a payment 
request upon completion and CITY approval of the work performed.  In consideration for the full 
performance of the services set forth in Exhibit A and A1, CITY agrees to pay CONSULTANT a fee in an 
amount of $205,949, pursuant to rates stated in Exhibit B and B1 to this Agreement, attached and 
incorporated by reference. 
SECTION 6 - TERMINATION 
Without limitation to such rights or remedies as CITY shall otherwise have by law, CITY shall have 
the right to terminate this Agreement or suspend work on the Project for any reason, upon ten (10) days' 
written notice to CONSULTANT.  CONSULTANT agrees to cease all work under this Agreement upon 
receipt of said written notice. 
Upon termination and upon CITY's payment of the amount required to be paid, documents 
become the property of CITY, and CONSULTANT shall transfer them to CITY upon request without 
additional compensation. 
SECTION 7 - OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS 
All documents prepared by CONSULTANT in the performance of this Agreement, although 
instruments of professional service, are and shall be the property of CITY, whether the project for 
which they are made is executed or not. 
SECTION 8 - CONFIDENTIALITY 
All reports and documents prepared by CONSULTANT in connection with the performance of 
this Agreement are confidential until released by CITY to the public.  CONSULTANT shall not make any 
such documents or information available to any individual or organization not employed by 
CONSULTANT or CITY without the written consent of CITY before any such release. 
SECTION 9 - INTEREST OF CONSULTANT 
CONSULTANT covenants that it presently has no interest, and shall not acquire any interest, 
direct or indirect, financial or otherwise, which would conflict in any manner or degree with the 
performance of the services under this Agreement. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
21 of 247

--- page 22 ---
Signing In Process
Professional Services 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 10 - CONSULTANT'S STATUS 
It is expressly agreed that in the performance of the professional services required under this 
Agreement, CONSULTANT shall at all times be considered an independent contractor as defined in 
Labor Code Section 3353, under control of the CITY as to the result of the work but not the means by 
which the result is accomplished.  Nothing herein shall be construed to make CONSULTANT an agent or 
employee of CITY while providing services under this Agreement. 
SECTION 11 - INDEMNITY 
CONSULTANT agrees to hold harmless and indemnify CITY, its elected and appointed officials, 
employees, and agents from and against any and all claims, loss, liability, damage, and expense arising 
out of CONSULTANT’s performance of this Agreement, except those claims arising out of CITY’s sole 
negligence or willful misconduct.  CONSULTANT agrees to defend City, its elected and appointed 
officials, employees, and agents against any such claims. The CONSULTANT’S duty to indemnify shall 
survive expiration or early termination of this Agreement. 
SECTION 12 - INSURANCE 
CONSULTANT shall procure and maintain for the duration of the contract and three years 
thereafter (five years for building or major improvements) the insurance specified in Exhibit C to this 
Agreement. 
SECTION 13 - NON-ASSIGNABILITY 
Both parties hereto recognize that this Agreement is for the personal services of CONSULTANT 
and cannot be transferred, assigned, or subcontracted by CONSULTANT without the prior written 
consent of CITY. 
SECTION 14 - RELIANCE UPON PROFESSIONAL 
SKILL OF CONSULTANT 
It is mutually understood and agreed by and between the parties hereto that CONSULTANT is 
skilled in the professional calling necessary to perform the work agreed to be done under this 
Agreement and that CITY relies upon the skill of CONSULTANT to do and perform the work in the most 
skillful manner, and CONSULTANT agrees to thus perform the work.  The acceptance of CONSULTANT's 
work by CITY does not operate as a release of CONSULTANT from said obligation. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
22 of 247

--- page 23 ---
Signing In Process
Professional Services 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 15 - WAIVERS 
The waiver by either party of any breach or violation of any term, covenant, or condition of this 
Agreement or of any provisions of any ordinance or law shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such 
term, covenant, condition, ordinance or law or of any subsequent breach or violation of the same or of 
any other term, condition, ordinance, or law.  The subsequent acceptance by either party of any fee or 
other money which may become due hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding 
breach or violation by the other party of any term, covenant, or condition of this Agreement or of any 
applicable law or ordinance. 
SECTION 16 - SEVERABILITY 
If any term or portion of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or otherwise 
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect. 
SECTION 17 - COSTS AND ATTORNEY FEES 
Attorney fees in total amount not exceeding $5000, shall be recoverable as costs (by the filing 
of a cost bill) by the prevailing party in any action or actions to enforce the provisions of this 
Agreement.  The above $5000 limit is the total of attorney fees recoverable whether in the trial court, 
appellate court, or otherwise, and regardless of the number of attorneys, trials, appeals, or actions.  It 
is the intent of this Agreement that neither party shall have to pay the other more than $5000 for 
attorney fees arising out of an action, or actions to enforce the provisions of this Agreement. 
SECTION 18 - NON-DISCRIMINATION 
CONSULTANT warrants that it is an Equal Opportunity Employer and shall comply with 
applicable regulations governing equal employment opportunity.  Neither CONSULTANT nor any of its 
subcontractors shall discriminate in the employment of any person because of race, color, national 
origin, ancestry, physical handicap, medical condition, marital status, sex, or age, unless based upon a 
bona fide occupational qualification pursuant to the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. 
SECTION 19 - MEDIATION 
Should any dispute arise out of this Agreement, any party may request that it be submitted to 
mediation.  The parties shall meet in mediation within 30 days of a request.  The mediator shall be 
agreed to by the mediating parties; in the absence of an agreement, the parties shall each submit one 
name from mediators listed by either the American Arbitration Association, the State Mediation and 
Conciliation Service, or other agreed-upon service.  The mediator shall be selected by a blind draw. 
The cost of mediation shall be borne equally by the parties.  Neither party shall be deemed the 
prevailing party.  No party shall be permitted to file a legal action without first meeting in mediation 
and making a good faith attempt to reach a mediated settlement.  The mediation process, once 
commenced by a meeting with the mediator, shall last until agreement is reached by the parties but 
not more than 60 days, unless the maximum time is extended by the parties. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
23 of 247

--- page 24 ---
Signing In Process
Professional Services 
Rev 9/22 
SECTION 20 - LITIGATION 
CONSULTANT shall testify at CITY'S request if litigation is brought against CITY in connection 
with CONSULTANT's services under this Agreement.  Unless the action is brought by CONSULTANT, or 
is based upon CONSULTANT's wrongdoing, CITY shall compensate CONSULTANT for preparation for 
testimony, testimony, and travel at CONSULTANT's standard hourly rates at the time of actual 
testimony. 
SECTION 21 - NOTICES 
All notices hereunder shall be given in writing and mailed, postage prepaid, addressed as 
follows: 
To CITY: 
Sarah Scheidt 
City of San Mateo 
1949 Pacific Blvd. 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
To CONSULTANT: 
SCI Consulting Group 
Attn:  John Bliss 
4745 Mangels Blvd. 
Fairfield, CA 94534 
SECTION 22 - AGREEMENT CONTAINS ALL 
UNDERSTANDINGS; AMENDMENT 
This document represents the entire and integrated agreement between CITY and 
CONSULTANT and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, and agreements, either written 
or oral. 
This document may be amended only by written instrument, signed by both CITY and 
CONSULTANT. 
SECTION 23 - AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENT 
CONSULTANT has all requisite power and authority to conduct its business and to execute, 
deliver, and perform the Agreement.  Each party warrants that the individuals who have signed this 
Agreement have the legal power, right, and authority to make this Agreement and to bind each 
respective party. 
SECTION 24 - GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE 
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California and, in the event of 
litigation, venue will be in the County of San Mateo. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
24 of 247

--- page 25 ---
Signing In Process
Professional Services 
Rev 9/22 
[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
25 of 247

--- page 26 ---
Signing In Process
Professional Services 
Rev 9/22 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CITY OF SAN MATEO and SCI Consulting Group have executed this 
Agreement the day and year first above written. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
CONSULTANT 
Azalea Mitch  
Public Works Director 
John Bliss 
President 
Attachments: 
Exhibit A: 
Exhibit A1:
Exhibit B:   
Exhibit B1: 
Exhibit C: 
Original Scope of Services 
Additional Scope of Services 
Original Fee Rates  
Additional Fee Rates 
Insurance Requirements 
Linh Nguyen
Assistant City Attorney
APPROVED AS TO FORM
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
26 of 247

--- page 27 ---
Signing In Process
Exhibit A - Original Scope of Services
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
27 of 247

--- page 28 ---
Signing In Process
PROJECT APPROACH AND  SCOPE OF SERVICES 
Task 1: Evaluation of Projected Financial Needs 
The SCI Team will analyze current and projected City expenditures and sources of funding for 
meeting the existing and anticipated storm system activity needs such as compliance with the 
Municipal Regional Permit (MRP), developing a capital improvement program master plan, storm 
system operations and maintenance, and dredging activities for creeks and Marina Lagoon. The 
key work efforts include the following: 
Kick-off Meeting 
 Team 
Leader: 
SCI 
The SCI Team will meet with City staff to clarify and establish project communication, goals 
timelines, and deliverables.  
Data Collection 
 Team Leader: LWA 
The SCI Team will identify, request and review relevant plans, engineering documents and other 
information to identify regulatory/contractual requirements as well as revenues and 
expenditures, related to storm drainage in the City.  (This includes the current and future master 
planning studies and efforts, Marina Lagoon Preliminary Dredging Assessment (2017); Green 
Infrastructure Workplan and Plan; operating budgets for storm system operation and 
maintenance, stormwater compliance, and capital improvement projects; Trash Management 
Plans; California State Auditor Report and the Regional Water Quality Control Boards’ storm 
sewer system permits.) The SCI Team will interview key City staff to identify the range of the 
regulatory requirements, the current revenues and fees assessed, and costs for implementation 
and operations and maintenance.  
Revenue Requirement and Cost of Service Analysis 
 Team 
Leader: 
LWA 
The SCI Team has comprehensive experience estimating existing (current fiscal year) and future 
stormwater program costs (up to five years) and have completed similar analyses for other 
municipal clients. Based on the data collection effort, the SCI Team will develop projected future 
stormwater program annual costs and sources of funding and will include an estimate of the total 
costs required to fully implement the stormwater program.  To the extent requested by the City, 
the analysis may include a quantitative estimate of existing resources vs. projected needs and a 
detailed breakdown of expected funding gaps.  We understand the City’s concerns about 
potentially being “under-resourced” and will work to quantify the resources needed to address 
this concern.  
EXHIBIT A
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
28 of 247

--- page 29 ---
Signing In Process
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                                                                     
       PAGE 2 OF 3 
SCOPE FOR CONTRACT (FULL IMPLEMENTATION) 
BY SCIConsultingGroup and Larry Walker Associates, July 2019 
The SCI Team will assess the current and projected revenues and costs to implement the 
stormwater program and anticipated storm system activities. The SCI Team will work with the 
City to identify, to the extent feasible, the major capital and operation and maintenance costs for 
the program. While the SCI Team will aim to consider the critical costs, it may be necessary to 
make estimates rather than conduct detailed accounting for smaller expenditures.   
Deliverables: 
•
Coordination and participation in Kick-off meeting
•
Brief summary of key discussion items, decisions, and findings from kickoff meeting
•
Spreadsheet summary of current stormwater program revenues and expenditures
(current fiscal year) and future, projected revenues and expenditures (up to five
years)
•
Brief Technical Memorandum summary of revenues and expenditures
•
Develop Powerpoint summary
Task 2: Evaluation of Potential Funding Sources 
Based upon our research in the previous tasks, input from City staff and other stakeholders, and 
our experience with numerous similar efforts, the SCI Team will prepare and present a Funding 
Analysis Memorandum including pros and cons of funding options (including political, legal 
administrative, cost, scheduling, sustainability and reliability, revenue generation, etc.) 
Funding Analysis 
 Team Leader: SCI 
The SCI Team will consider and evaluate other studies including those listed in the RFP document, 
and will specifically address funding options for potential projects at Marina Lagoon and San 
Mateo creeks.   
As part of this review, the SCI Team will evaluate and make recommendations regarding existing 
non-balloted funding sources which may more effectively fund storm drain services, including 
water, sewer and refuse collection services as well as other fees such as for plan checks and 
inspections, with special emphasis on SB 231 opportunities.  
Deliverables 
•
Funding Analysis Memorandum  (including Task 1 and Task 2 results)
•
Develop Powerpoint summary
Task 3: Preparation of Scope of Work, Preliminary Rate Structure and Presentation 
The SCI Team will work closely with the City to establish a clear scope of work for the potential 
implementation of a dedicated funding mechanism including scope for community polling, 
revenue report and implementation action plan, implementation assistance (including balloting) 
Exhibit A - continued
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
29 of 247

--- page 30 ---
Signing In Process
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                                                                     
       PAGE 3 OF 3 
SCOPE FOR CONTRACT (FULL IMPLEMENTATION) 
BY SCIConsultingGroup and Larry Walker Associates, July 2019 
and community outreach.  The SCI Team will present the Task 1 and Task 2 results to the City 
along with the Task 4-7 Scope of Work and receive input and direction on next steps.
Additionally, based on the scenarios and the potential services and improvements developed in 
the previous 2 sections, the SCI Team will develop a preliminary storm drain fee/tax structure.   
This preliminary rate structure will allow the City to better evaluate the opportunity to move 
forward with polling (future optional task). 
(If the City moves forward with the optional polling, the preliminary rate to will allow the SCI 
Team to assign each parcel an actual fee or tax amount to be tested in the survey phase. This is 
important because Proposition 218 requires the City to inform property owners about what fees 
they will be voting on. Unlike storm drainage, sewer and solid waste fees that have relatively 
simple fee structures, storm drain fees can often be based on the proportion of impervious area 
related to parcel size for the various land use classes that result in unique fees for many 
properties.  Therefore, an effective survey should show the same information in order to be 
predictive of the ultimate balloting. By developing a preliminary fee/tax structure and printing 
the individual fee/tax on each survey form, the SCI Team will ensure that the opinion research 
accurately measures support from all types of property owners and is based on the specific fee 
or tax they may be asked to support for their property, instead of an average rate that may have 
no relation to their proposed fee. )  
Deliverables 
•
Develop Scope of Work
•
Develop preliminary rate structure (for potential use in Task 4 polling)
•
Present Powerpoint summary, including Task 1 and Task 2 results, and scope of
work to City Council – (Up to three City Council meetings)
Exhibit A - continued
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
30 of 247

--- page 31 ---
Signing In Process
Exhibit A1 - Additional Scope of 
Services
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
31 of 247

--- page 32 ---
Signing In Process
SCOPE OF SERVICES 
The following Scope of Services assumes the City will pursue a property-related fee as the primary 
revenue mechanism for its stormwater program.  However, the community polling work will also 
evaluate the support for commensurate rates for a special tax measure and/or benefit 
assessment.  If the City chooses to pursue one of those other mechanisms instead, SCI will gladly 
adjust its scope of work, timeline, and fees accordingly. 
Task 4: Community Polling 
A community poll and opinion research phase will provide the City with a highly accurate 
projection of the level of support for a new storm drain fee or tax and, just as importantly, a clear 
insight to the community’s priorities to enable the City to finalize a set of services and 
improvements that will best meet the community’s needs. This insight will support the 
refinement of branding and communication with the community.   
Recommended Methodology 
The SCI Team has developed a sophisticated research methodology for identifying the priorities 
of registered voters and property owners, their support for a local funding measure and how best 
to package the measure for success. One of the primary strengths of the recommended approach 
is its proven ability to most accurately identify support from different types of property owners, 
such as single family residential, business, industrial, apartment, and investment property 
owners.  Moreover, this approach and methodology have proven to provide accurate and reliable 
research findings in a wide range of social and economic environments such as rural areas and 
urban communities, ranges of income, and a variety of ethnic backgrounds.  
The elections environment, legal and logistical considerations, as well as the campaign 
opportunities for property-owner mailed-ballot proceedings, are quite different from registered 
voter elections for special taxes (such as bonds or parcel taxes) – so it is important that the 
research methodology take these differences into account in order to ensure reliable results.  The 
methodology developed by SCI does exactly that, and it has proven to be materially more 
accurate than traditional “phone” surveys of registered voters in predicting actual ballot results 
for property related fees. In addition, our methodology also accurately captures the registered 
voter’s position on the surveyed topics. 
For special tax revenue measures (e.g., parcel tax, general obligation bond, sales tax), all 
registered voters who are likely to participate in the election of interest represent the 
appropriate sampling universe.  In a mailed ballot proceeding, however, all property owners are 
eligible to participate instead of just registered voters.  This participant “universe” includes 
owners of apartment, commercial, industrial, and vacant properties. Our methodology also 
Exhibit A1
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
32 of 247

--- page 33 ---
Signing In Process
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                                                                     
       PAGE 2 OF 9 
SCOPE FOR CONTRACT (FULL IMPLEMENTATION) 
BY SCIConsultingGroup, June 2021 
accounts for the potential impact of owners of multiple properties such as commercial or newly 
developed land (who get a separate vote for each parcel). 
Due to the demonstrated higher level of accuracy and improved ability to reach all types of 
property owners and voters, the SCI Team recommends a mailed survey approach specifically 
tailored to account for the unique aspects of the potential property-related fee, or special tax, 
services and other specifics.   
Work Plan 
The SCI Team will work closely with the City to develop messaging strategies to test, design 
mailed survey informational items and associated questionnaires, compile data sets, etc.  Once 
approved, the survey will be mailed to a randomized, stratified sampling, representative of City 
of San Mateo voters and property owners.  Each survey will be individually printed to include the 
proposed fee, based upon the preliminary rate structure developed in Task 3. After the period 
allowed for the mailing and postage-paid return of the surveys, the SCI Team will conduct a 
complex analysis and modeling of the survey results for the City as they relate to the expected 
property owner ballot participant profile and balloting scenario.  
After completing this detailed modeling and analysis, the SCI Team will prepare a comprehensive 
community public opinion report that summarizes the opinion research findings and makes 
recommendations regarding residents’ and owners’ storm drain improvement and service 
priorities, as well as the feasibility of moving forward with a ballot measure to fund such 
priorities.  The report will also include additional value-added elements such as the 
recommended ballot measure alternatives and services to be funded, an outline of the 
recommended action plan for proceeding with local funding measures, profiles of likely 
supporters and opponents, service priorities, support by geographic area, and key messaging 
elements and strategies.  The SCI Team recommends mailing 9,000 survey questionnaires to 
achieve a +/-3% margin of error. 
Deliverables: 
•
Develop a detailed approach for opinion research
•
Design information piece and survey instrument
•
Conduct statistically valid mailed community survey
•
Provide printing, addressing, mailing, return postage for 9,000 surveys
•
Analyze responses and present community public opinion report results to
City Council
In-Person Meetings: 
•
One Presentation to City Council
Exhibit A1 - continued
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
33 of 247

--- page 34 ---
Signing In Process
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                                                                     
       PAGE 3 OF 9 
SCOPE FOR CONTRACT (FULL IMPLEMENTATION)  
BY SCIConsultingGroup, June 2021 
Task 5: Stormwater Fee Report 
A Building on the information developed in the Stormwater Funding Analysis (January 2021) and 
the community survey (Task 4), the SCI Team will prepare a comprehensive Proposition 218-
compliant property-related fee engineering and nexus/justification report (“Fee Report”) for the 
proposed programs and improvements to be funded. The preliminary work will include at least 
four (4) rate structure options incorporating all necessary revenues, costs, fund balance targets, 
reserves, debt service considerations, and capital improvement scenarios. The Final Report will 
include a detailed description of the programs and improvements to be funded as well as the 
rationale used for the fee apportionment (likely to be based on impervious area) and calculation 
of the specific proposed fee amount for each parcel in the City. 
The Fee Report may also include rate credit provisions to incentivize on-site runoff abatement 
that could apply to traditionally impervious large sites such as commercial, industrial and 
institutional parcels as well as newly developed sites to help the City implement structural BMPs 
and hydrograph modification practices.  Additionally, the Report will include legal considerations 
and issues for the fee methodology, appeal processes, and alternative revenue enhancement 
options. The process will build on the data gathered in previous tasks, including parcel data, 
community priorities, and budgets, cost estimates, and multi-year proforma for all services and 
improvements.  The Fee Report will also include storm drainage rate levels for various similar and 
nearby municipalities. 
The first step would be to update the financial information developed for the Stormwater 
Funding Analysis.  The second part of this task will be the compilation of the parcel attributes.  In 
particular, SCI will need to perform an audit of parcel lot coverage of impervious surfaces for the 
various land classes. The parcel audit is a time-consuming task that will require looking at all our 
data sources, viewing aerial photos, and possibly some site visits. The data generated in this effort 
will be the backbone of the analysis that follows, where the nexus of parcel attributes to the fee 
structure is developed. This analysis uses many layers of statistical work and a reasoned and stout 
rationale for the resulting nexus. 
The Fee Report’s development is an iterative process and will be interwoven with the early 
stakeholder outreach, findings from the Community Survey, and critical input from City staff. This 
process varies depending on the community and will be tailored to fit the City’s situation. SCI will 
present these fiscal plans, data review and analysis, and various fee scenarios to the City in up to 
three review sessions.  Issues uncovered by the reviews will be highlighted and remedies 
suggested. Depending on the iterative path followed, new scenarios may be presented to internal 
(and possibly selected external) stakeholders to help refine the rate structure and incorporate 
the community’s priorities.  
Once City staff (and possibly the City’s legal counsel) have reviewed the data and information, 
we will prepare a Draft Fee Report for a consolidated review by City staff of the recommended 
rate structure and fee levels.  After that review, SCI will prepare the Final Fee Report that satisfies 
Exhibit A1 - continued
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
34 of 247

--- page 35 ---
Signing In Process
2 These public hearings are prescribed by Proposition 218, and commonly called “protest hearing” because if 
protests are received from owners of a majority of parcels, the rate implementation process is blocked. 
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                                                                     
       PAGE 4 OF 9 
SCOPE FOR CONTRACT (FULL IMPLEMENTATION) 
BY SCIConsultingGroup, June 2021 
the requirements of Articles XIIIC and XIIID of the California Constitution (Proposition 218), the 
Government Code, and other relevant code sections. The Report will be prepared and signed by 
Jerry Bradshaw, PE, a registered Civil Engineer with extensive experience in this field.  The Report 
will include a detailed description of the proposed fee structure for the programs and 
improvements, future capital and facility improvement needs, a detailed cost estimate, the 
rationale used for the fee apportionment, calculation of the specific proposed fee amount for 
each parcel in the City, any necessary maps or diagrams, and other elements. 
Deliverables: 
•
Preliminary Rate Scenarios – Spreadsheet & PowerPoint level
•
Draft Stormwater Fee Report
•
Final Draft Stormwater Fee Report1 and supporting PowerPoint for City
Council Study Session
•
Final Fee Report for City Council Approval
In-Person Meetings: 
•
One Presentation to Senior Staff (possibly in virtual format)
•
One Study Session with City Council
Task 6: Proposition 218-Complaint Fee Implementation 
Implementation of a property-related fee includes several steps: 
a. City Council approval of the Fee Report, setting a public hearing2 date and time,
and authorizing the mailing of notices.
b. Printing and mailing of notices.
c.
Conduct a public hearing no less than 45 days after the mailing of notices.
d. City Council authorization of mailing of ballots (if no majority protest is formed).
e. Printing and mailing of ballots.
f.
Tabulation of ballots after close of ballot period (at least 45 days after public
hearing).
1 Recent Examples of SCI’s Stormwater Fee Report can be found at the three following locations: 
•
City of Davis):
http://documents.cityofdavis.org/Media/Default/Documents/PDF/Stormwater/Stormwater-Utility-Cost-
of-Service-Rate-Study-ATT1-Fee-Report.pdf
•
City of Alameda (2019):  https://www.alamedaca.gov/files/sharedassets/public/public-
works/misc/exhibit-1-draft-stormwater-fee-report.pdf
•
City of Cupertino (2018):  https://www.cupertino.org/home/showdocument?id=23893
Exhibit A1 - continued
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
35 of 247

--- page 36 ---
Signing In Process
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                                                                     
       PAGE 5 OF 9 
SCOPE FOR CONTRACT (FULL IMPLEMENTATION)
BY SCIConsultingGroup, June 2021 
g. City Council certification of results of the balloting, authorizing the fee structure
if support is over 50%.
h. Roll out of fees into utility billing system or County property tax bill system.
As noted above, the Proposition 218 process for stormwater fees included a ballot proceeding. 
The final step is the tabulation of ballots, and the City Clerk will be designated as the official 
tabulator. Since State law does not prescribe a detailed procedure for conducting the proceeding, 
one of the first actions of this task is to develop a Proposition 218 Procedures resolution to be 
adopted by the City Council. This kicks off a stream of documents that will require input and 
review by the City Clerk, City Attorney, Finance Director, and other senior staff.  SCI recognizes 
that this process is new for each of our clients, so we will bring our extensive experience in this 
regard to draft documents and advise (and, in many cases, train) City staff on these procedures. 
The SCI Team will draft all notices, resolutions, ordinances, and staff reports required for each 
step in the process as well as the final ballot packet. City staff, including the City Clerk and legal 
counsel, will review and finalize all these documents.  We will also assist the City and its legal 
counsel with a public hearing script for the Mayor and responses to property owner testimony at 
the public hearing. 
The design of the official notices, ballot, and supporting informational items and mailers is one 
of the most important elements of a successful ballot outcome.  The SCI Team will utilize its 
unmatched expertise and track record to design these items that clearly and concisely explain 
the reason for the stormwater fee while meeting all legal requirements.   
After the designs of the notices and ballots are finalized, the SCI Team will oversee the printing, 
addressing and mailing of the notices and then the ballot packets. (This work will be performed 
by our reliable mail house, Admail West, a printing and mailing firm with industry-leading 
experience with registered voter elections and mail ballot proceedings.)  Throughout the noticing 
and balloting periods, the SCI Team will also field and respond to property owner inquiries, will 
research and confirm new owners that are not reflected on the official county property 
ownership records, and will issue replacement ballots upon request.   
Tabulation is required by law to be done either by an impartial third party (the statute defines 
the City Clerk as such), or in public view.  For a tabulation of this size (estimated at up to 8,500 
ballots returned), SCI recommends the City hire an outside auditing or accounting firm. The SCI 
Team will provide all necessary training to that firm for managing SCI’s bar scan system and 
tabulation software. Alternately, if the City chooses to perform the tabulation in-house under the 
direction of the City Clerk (or in public view, or both), SCI will provide the same training for City 
staff.  For a modest extra fee, a Senior SCI Consultant would be provided to oversee the tabulation 
process.  This will require approximately 50 person-hours of City staff over a two- or three-day 
time span. 
Exhibit A1 - continued
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
36 of 247

--- page 37 ---
Signing In Process
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                                                                     
       PAGE 6 OF 9 
SCOPE FOR CONTRACT (FULL IMPLEMENTATION)
BY SCIConsultingGroup, June 2021 
Deliverables: 
•
Management of noticing and balloting process
•
Designing, printing, mailing of Fee Notices (Approx. 28,300)
•
Designing, printing, mailing of Fee Ballots (Approx. 28,300)
•
Supporting resolutions and staff reports
•
Property owner support throughout process
•
Training tabulation consultant on balloting process and tabulation
In-Person Meetings: 
•
Tabulation Training
•
Two City Council meetings (Fee Report Approval and Public Hearing)
Task 7: Public Outreach 
SCI will assist with public informational and educational outreach strategies and property owner 
informational services.  Our informational outreach efforts, which will continue up to and 
throughout the ballot proceeding, include tasks necessary to ensure the property owners are 
adequately informed about the assessment ballot proceeding and the proposed services and/or 
improvements in their area prior to the mailing of ballots.  Throughout this process, the SCI Team 
will work closely with volunteers, City staff and other stakeholders. 
Informational and Education Outreach Strategies 
The SCI Team understands that basic message components will need to be simple, clear and 
transparent, and need to be well supported with detailed and substantive information and tested 
with primary stakeholders throughout the project.   
However, storm drain infrastructure, maintenance and operations are not well known, and not 
well understood by the general public, and as a result, the general public is commonly hesitant 
to invest in local storm drain infrastructure.  Accordingly, answers to the following questions must 
be effectively provided to the rate payers: 
➢What is the purpose of storm drain infrastructure?
➢Why is the storm drain system important to the San Mateo residents?
➢Why is the additional funding / revenue needed?
➢Has the City done all it can to reduce costs prior to increasing the rates?
➢What protections are there that this additional funding will be spent wisely?
More recently, communities have demanded greater detail and explanation for these questions, 
particularly the fourth and fifth questions. We recommend, from our experience providing 
Exhibit A1 - continued
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
37 of 247

--- page 38 ---
Signing In Process
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                                                                     
       PAGE 7 OF 9 
SCOPE FOR CONTRACT (FULL IMPLEMENTATION)
BY SCIConsultingGroup, June 2021 
community outreach throughout the State, that the outreach material and approach combine 
straightforward, plain-language explanations with detailed, substantive information.  Credibility 
is the most important factor in this outreach. 
Develop Communication Infrastructure 
Next, the SCI Team will carefully evaluate and develop the potential communication 
infrastructure. Working with City staff (i.e., Public Information Officer, etc.), we will evaluate and 
ultimately coordinate existing communication infrastructure, including stakeholder contacts, 
print media, website, social media, print publications, neighborhood groups and newsletters, 
etc., and will prioritize and integrate the various methods as appropriate. We will also look at e-
mail contacts with HOA and neighborhood leaders, as well as web-based platforms. We will 
develop a schedule for the dates of community stakeholder meetings, due dates for local group 
newsletters, etc. Our extensive experience has shown that the most effective communication 
mechanisms for this type of infrastructure are small, local, and neighborhood-based, with a 
personal communication or face-to-face element.   
Develop Communication Messaging  
The development of the messaging and supporting information is an iterative process with City 
staff, the SCI Team, and members of the public, and with considerable input from the Task 4 
opinion research. Throughout the process, the SCI Team will analyze and refine messaging 
associated with storm drain infrastructure. In this task, the SCI Team will develop draft 
communications of various types.  These may include Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) 
documents, camera-ready mailers and brochures, PowerPoint presentations, and emails, scripts, 
and other adaptable messages.   
Rollout and Implementation 
Once the outreach plan is well-vetted, reviewed and refined, the SCI Team will coordinate the 
rollout and implementation of the plan. This work is not expensive, but requires a considerable 
time commitment from City Staff, and is very effective when well-executed.  SCI staff will attend 
community meetings to provide technical support and evaluate public response. 
Deliverables: 
•
Develop outreach plan
•
Develop outreach material including FAQs, Talking Points, scripts, e-mail and
social media
•
Develop and refine PowerPoint presentations for public meetings
•
Coordinate implementation of outreach efforts
In Person Meetings: 
•
Three (3) Community Meetings
Exclusions: This scope and pricing do not include the printing, mailing, or media 
buy for any outreach material. 
Exhibit A1 - continued
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
38 of 247

--- page 39 ---
Signing In Process
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                                                                     
       PAGE 8 OF 9 
SCOPE FOR CONTRACT (FULL IMPLEMENTATION) 
BY SCIConsultingGroup, June 2021 
Timeline 
The following timeline is compressed somewhat to bring the stormwater fee ballot period into 
the early summer months of 2022 and avoid competition from the fall elections. In order to 
achieve this, the Fee Report (Task 5) would proceed somewhat concurrently with the Survey 
(Task 4). This compressed timeline will also constrain the Public Outreach efforts (Task 7).  Results 
from the survey (Task 4) may reveal that a more extensive public outreach effort is warranted, 
and the timeline may need to be altered.  
- -
Strategy Review
4
Community Survey
5
Fee Report
6
Fee Implementation
7
Community Outreach 
Legend:
Task Work
Ballot Period
Council (SIC..??)
Primary or General Elections
Tenative Timeline
Aug 21
Sep 21
Oct 21
Nov 21
Dec 21
Jan 22
Feb 22
Mar 22
Apr 22
May 22
Jun 22
Jul 22
Exhibit A1 - continued
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
39 of 247

--- page 40 ---
Signing In Process
4
Community Survey
Tracker 
?
5
Fee Report
80%
6
Fee Implementation
Fall ballot
7
Community Outreach 
Pre‐survey outreach
Post‐survey outreach
Legend:
Task Work
Task Work
Ballot Period
Council (SIC..??)
Primary or General Elections
Jan 24
City of San Mateo
Stormwater Fee Implementation
Tenative Timeline
Updated Nov 2022
Jan 23
Nov 22
Dec 22
Sep 23
Oct 23
Nov 23
Dec 23
Feb 23
Mar 23
Apr 23
May 23
Jun 23
Jul 23
Exhibit A1 - continued
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
&nbsp;
40 of&nbsp;247

--- page 41 ---
Signing In Process
Exhibit B - Original Fee Rates  
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
41 of 247

--- page 42 ---
Signing In Process
John 
Bliss
Jerry 
Bradshaw
Susan 
Barnes
Karen 
Ashby
Airy Krich-
Brinton
Rachel Warren
Support 
Staff
President & 
Senior 
Engineer
Fee  
Engineer
Senior 
Consultant
Fully Loaded Hourly Rate:
$245
$205
$180
$291
$206
$239
$65
Subcontractor Markup
10%
10%
10%
Total 
Hours
 Total 
Costs 
1
4
4
36
44
44
132
34,602
$   
   
2
2
24
10
4
40
8,490
$   
  
3
1
24
30
55
10,565
$   
   
TOTAL DIRECT HOURS
3
52
44
40
44
44
227
53,657
$   
   
Units
Cost
 Total Cost 
Data & Documents
1 
$1,250
1,250
$   
  
54,907
$   
   
Totals
Tasks 1, 2 & 3*
Core Tasks
Incidental Cost allowance for Tasks 1-3 
 Incidental expenses (travel, property data, maps , etc., actual costs reimbursed) -Tasks 1-3
Task Number/Description
Hours
Evaluation of Projected Financial Needs
Evaluation of Potential Funding Sources
Preparation of Scope of Work, Preliminary Rate Structure and Presentation
Exhibit B - Fee Rates
SCI TEAM
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Storm System Activities Funding Analysis 
Assigned staff:
Classification:
Financial/ Regulatory
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
42 of 247

--- page 43 ---
Signing In Process
Exhibit B1 - Additional Fee Rates
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
&nbsp;
43 of&nbsp;247

--- page 44 ---
Signing In Process
_____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
                                                                     
       PAGE 9 OF 9 
SCOPE FOR CONTRACT (FULL IMPLEMENTATION)
BY SCIConsultingGroup, June 2021 
Fees 
Exhibit B1 – Fee Rates
John
Bliss
Jerry
Bradshaw
Kyle
Tankard
Karen
Ashby
Support
Staff
President & 
Senior 
Engineer
Fee    Engineer
Senior 
Consultant
Fully Loaded Hourly Rate:
$275
$255
$195
$299
$75
Subcontractor Markup
10%
Total 
Hours
 Total 
Costs 
4
Community Polling
1
16
16
16
49
8,675
$
 
5
Fee Report
8
60
32
12
10
122
28,437
$ 
  
6
Prop 218 Implementation
4
24
40
8
76
15,620
$ 
  
7
Public Outreach
8
12
50
4
74
15,310
$ 
  
21
112
138
12
38
321
68,042
$ 
  
Units
Cost
 Total
Cost
Incidentals
1 
4,000.00
$  
4,000
$
 
Mailed Survey
 9,000
$
1 .25
11,250
$ 
  
Prop 218 Notice
 28,300
$
0 .95
26,885
$ 
  
Prop 218 Ballots
 28,300
$
1 .25
35,375
$ 
  
77,510
$ 
  
145,552
$ 
  
TOTALS
TOTAL PROJECT COST
Task 6b: Printing, Addressing, Mailing, Return Postage
Task 6a: Printing, Addressing, Mailing, Return Postage
STORMWATER SURVEY || FEES || IMPLEMENTATION || OUTREACH
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SCI TEAM
Task 4: Printing, Addressing, Mailing, Return Postage
Assigned staff:
Classification:
Financial/ 
Regulatory
TOTALS
Task Number/Description
Hours
Direct Costs 
Travel, property data, maps , etc., actual costs reimbursed
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
44 of 247

--- page 45 ---
Signing In Process
Professional Services 
Rev 9/22 
EXHIBIT C 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
MINIMUM SCOPE OF INSURANCE  
Coverage shall be at least as broad as: 
1. Commercial General Liability (CGL):  Insurance Services Office (ISO) Form CG 00 01 12 07
covering CGL on an “occurrence” basis, including products-completed operations, personal &
advertising injury, with limits no less than $2,000,000 per occurrence. If a general aggregate
limit applies, either the general aggregate limit shall apply separately to this project/location or
the general aggregate limit shall be twice the required occurrence limit.
2. Automobile Liability:  ISO Form Number CA 00 01 covering any auto (Code 1), or if
CONSULTANT has no owned autos, hired, (Code 8) and non-owned autos (Code 9), with limit no
less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
3. Workers’ Compensation: as required by the State of California, with Statutory Limits, and
Employer’s Liability Insurance with limit of no less than $1,000,000 per accident for bodily
injury or disease.
4. Professional Liability (Errors and Omissions): Insurance appropriate to the CONSULTANT’s
profession, with limit no less than $1,000,000 per occurrence or claim, $2,000,000 aggregate
If the CONSULTANT maintains higher limits than the minimums shown above, the City requires and 
shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits maintained by the CONSULTANT. 
Other Insurance Provisions 
The insurance policies are to contain, or be endorsed to contain, the following provisions: 
Additional Insured Status 
The City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents are to be covered as insureds on 
the auto policy for liability arising out of automobiles owned, leased, hired or borrowed by or on behalf 
of the CONSULTANT; and on the CGL policy with respect to liability arising out of work or operations 
performed by or on behalf of the CONSULTANT including materials, parts or equipment furnished in 
connection with such work or operations. General liability coverage can be provided in the form of an 
endorsement to the CONSULTANT’s insurance (at least as broad as ISO Form CG 20 10, 11 85 or both 
CG 20 10 and CG 20 37 forms if later revisions used). 
Primary Coverage 
For any claims related to this contract, the CONSULTANT’s insurance coverage shall be primary 
insurance as respects the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents. Any 
insurance or self-insurance maintained by the City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, or 
agents shall be excess of the CONSULTANT’s insurance and shall not contribute with it. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
45 of 247

--- page 46 ---
Signing In Process
Professional Services 
Rev 9/22 
Notice of Cancellation 
Each insurance policy required above shall provide that coverage shall not be canceled, except after 
thirty (30) days’ prior written notice (10 days for non-payment) has been given to the City. 
Waiver of Subrogation 
CONSULTANT hereby grants to City a waiver of any right to subrogation which any insurer of said 
CONSULTANT may acquire against the City by virtue of the payment of any loss under such insurance.  
CONSULTANT agrees to obtain any endorsement that may be necessary to effect this waiver of 
subrogation, but this provision applies regardless of whether or not the City has received a waiver of 
subrogation endorsement from the insurer.   
Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions 
Any deductibles or self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by the City. The City may 
require the CONSULTANT to purchase coverage with a lower deductible or retention or provide proof 
of ability to pay losses and related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses within 
the retention.   
Acceptability of Insurers 
Insurance is to be placed with insurers with a current A.M. Best’s rating of no less than A:VII, unless 
otherwise acceptable to the City. 
Verification of Coverage 
CONSULTANT shall furnish the City with original certificates and amendatory endorsements or copies 
of the applicable policy language effecting coverage required by this clause.  All certificates and 
endorsements are to be received and approved by the City before work commences.  However, failure 
to obtain the required documents prior to the work beginning shall not waive the CONSULTANT’s 
obligation to provide them.  The City reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all 
required insurance policies, including endorsements required by these specifications, at any time. 
DocuSign Envelope ID: CF09D3CA-7EC8-4E7D-BCF4-978D963CF0BA
46 of 247

--- page 47 ---
Signing In Process
Certificate Of Completion
Envelope Id: CF09D3CA7EC84E7DBCF4978D963CF0BA
Status: Sent
Subject: PW - SCI Consulting Group - Agreement - Stormwater Funding Analysis
Source Envelope: 
Document Pages: 27
Signatures: 1
Envelope Originator: 
Certificate Pages: 5
Initials: 0
Alonso Barahona
AutoNav: Enabled
EnvelopeId Stamping: Enabled
Time Zone: (UTC-08:00) Pacific Time (US & Canada)
330 W. 20th Avenue
City Clerk's Office
San Mateo, CA  94403
abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
IP Address: 76.14.0.98     
Record Tracking
Status: Original
             3/2/2023 12:15:42 PM
Holder: Alonso Barahona
             abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
Location: DocuSign
Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
John Bliss
john.bliss@sci-cg.com
President
SCI Consulting Group
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Signature Adoption: Pre-selected Style
Using IP Address: 73.158.254.219
Sent: 3/2/2023 12:16:22 PM
Viewed: 3/2/2023 12:28:00 PM 
Signed: 3/2/2023 12:28:09 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 3/2/2023 12:28:00 PM
      ID: 312f4970-ef83-4504-a7b6-115a8a4c2cd7
Alonso Barahona
abarahona@cityofsanmateo.org
Management Analyst
City of San Mateo
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Sent: 3/2/2023 12:28:14 PM
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Linh Nguyen
lnguyen@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 3/1/2023 5:29:07 PM
      ID: b7af34eb-0e09-4e61-9de9-9d69dd78b375
Azalea Mitch
amitch@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 3/2/2023 8:36:46 AM
      ID: ceea9ea6-63c1-44ee-9a1a-64ae0a774f41
In Person Signer Events
Signature
Timestamp
Editor Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Agent Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
47 of 247

--- page 48 ---
Signing In Process
Intermediary Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Certified Delivery Events
Status
Timestamp
Carbon Copy Events
Status
Timestamp
Erin Fellers
efellers@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Alesha Boyd
aboyd@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
PW Email Chron
pwemailchron@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Not Offered via DocuSign
Sarah Scheidt
sscheidt@cityofsanmateo.org
Security Level: Email, Account Authentication 
(None)
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure: 
      Accepted: 8/24/2022 4:34:11 PM
      ID: e7e9ef85-b53c-4de2-b20b-8b521f3e749a
Witness Events
Signature
Timestamp
Notary Events
Signature
Timestamp
Envelope Summary Events
Status
Timestamps
Envelope Sent
Hashed/Encrypted
3/2/2023 12:16:22 PM
Payment Events
Status
Timestamps
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure
48 of 247

--- page 49 ---
Signing In Process
CONSUMER DISCLOSURE
From time to time, Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo (we, us or Company) may be required by
law to provide to you certain written notices or disclosures. Described below are the terms and
conditions for providing to you such notices and disclosures electronically through the
DocuSign, Inc. (DocuSign) electronic signing system. Please read the information below
carefully and thoroughly, and if you can access this information electronically to your
satisfaction and agree to these terms and conditions, please confirm your agreement by clicking
the ‘I agree’ button at the bottom of this document. 
Getting paper copies
At any time, you may request from us a paper copy of any record provided or made available
electronically to you by us. You will have the ability to download and print documents we send
to you through the DocuSign system during and immediately after signing session and, if you
elect to create a DocuSign signer account, you may access them for a limited period of time
(usually 30 days) after such documents are first sent to you. After such time, if you wish for us to
send you paper copies of any such documents from our office to you, you will be charged a
$0.00 per-page fee. You may request delivery of such paper copies from us by following the
procedure described below. 
Withdrawing your consent 
If you decide to receive notices and disclosures from us electronically, you may at any time
change your mind and tell us that thereafter you want to receive required notices and disclosures
only in paper format. How you must inform us of your decision to receive future notices and
disclosure in paper format and withdraw your consent to receive notices and disclosures
electronically is described below. 
Consequences of changing your mind
If you elect to receive required notices and disclosures only in paper format, it will slow the
speed at which we can complete certain steps in transactions with you and delivering services to
you because we will need first to send the required notices or disclosures to you in paper format,
and then wait until we receive back from you your acknowledgment of your receipt of such
paper notices or disclosures. To indicate to us that you are changing your mind, you must
withdraw your consent using the DocuSign ‘Withdraw Consent’ form on the signing page of a
DocuSign envelope instead of signing it. This will indicate to us that you have withdrawn your
consent to receive required notices and disclosures electronically from us and you will no longer
be able to use the DocuSign system to receive required notices and consents electronically from
us or to sign electronically documents from us. 
All notices and disclosures will be sent to you electronically
Unless you tell us otherwise in accordance with the procedures described herein, we will provide
electronically to you through the DocuSign system all required notices, disclosures,
authorizations, acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or
made available to you during the course of our relationship with you. To reduce the chance of
you inadvertently not receiving any notice or disclosure, we prefer to provide all of the required
notices and disclosures to you by the same method and to the same address that you have given
us. Thus, you can receive all the disclosures and notices electronically or in paper format through
the paper mail delivery system. If you do not agree with this process, please let us know as
described below. Please also see the paragraph immediately above that describes the
consequences of your electing not to receive delivery of the notices and disclosures
Electronic Record and Signature Disclosure created on: 6/13/2017 8:08:23 AM
Parties agreed to: John Bliss, Linh Nguyen, Azalea Mitch, Sarah Scheidt
49 of 247

--- page 50 ---
Signing In Process
electronically from us. 
How to contact Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo:
You may contact us to let us know of your changes as to how we may contact you electronically,
to request paper copies of certain information from us, and to withdraw your prior consent to
receive notices and disclosures electronically as follows:
 To contact us by email send messages to: cravi@cityofsanmateo.org
To advise Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo of your new e-mail address 
To let us know of a change in your e-mail address where we should send notices and disclosures
electronically to you, you must send an email message to us at cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in
the body of such request you must state: your previous e-mail address, your new e-mail address.  
We do not require any other information from you to change your email address..  
In addition, you must notify DocuSign, Inc. to arrange for your new email address to be reflected
in your DocuSign account by following the process for changing e-mail in the DocuSign system. 
To request paper copies from Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To request delivery from us of paper copies of the notices and disclosures previously provided
by us to you electronically, you must send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the
body of such request you must state your e-mail address, full name, US Postal address, and
telephone number. We will bill you for any fees at that time, if any.
To withdraw your consent with Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo
To inform us that you no longer want to receive future notices and disclosures in electronic
format you may:
i. decline to sign a document from within your DocuSign session, and on the subsequent
page, select the check-box indicating you wish to withdraw your consent, or you may;
ii. send us an e-mail to cravi@cityofsanmateo.org and in the body of such request you
must state your e-mail, full name, US Postal Address, and telephone number. We do not
need any other information from you to withdraw consent..  The consequences of your
withdrawing consent for online documents will be that transactions may take a longer time
to process.. 
Required hardware and software
Operating Systems: 
Windows® 2000, Windows® XP, Windows
Vista®; Mac OS® X 
Browsers: 
Final release versions of Internet Explorer® 6.0
or above (Windows only); Mozilla Firefox 2.0
or above (Windows and Mac); Safari™ 3.0 or
above (Mac only) 
PDF Reader: 
Acrobat® or similar software may be required
to view and print PDF files 
Screen Resolution: 
800 x 600 minimum 
Enabled Security Settings: 
Allow per session cookies
 
** These minimum requirements are subject to change. If these requirements change, you will be
asked to re-accept the disclosure. Pre-release (e.g. beta) versions of operating systems and
browsers are not supported. 
Acknowledging your access and consent to receive materials electronically
50 of 247

--- page 51 ---
Signing In Process
To confirm to us that you can access this information electronically, which will be similar to
other electronic notices and disclosures that we will provide to you, please verify that you were
able to read this electronic disclosure and that you also were able to print on paper or
electronically save this page for your future reference and access or that you were able to e-mail
this disclosure and consent to an address where you will be able to print on paper or save it for
your future reference and access. Further, if you consent to receiving notices and disclosures
exclusively in electronic format on the terms and conditions described above, please let us know
by clicking the ‘I agree’ button below. 
By checking the ‘I agree’ box, I confirm that: 
•
I can access and read this Electronic CONSENT TO ELECTRONIC RECEIPT OF
ELECTRONIC CONSUMER DISCLOSURES document; and
 
•
I can print on paper the disclosure or save or send the disclosure to a place where I can
print it, for future reference and access; and
 
•
Until or unless I notify Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo as described above, I consent to
receive from exclusively through electronic means all notices, disclosures, authorizations,
acknowledgements, and other documents that are required to be provided or made
available to me by  Carahsoft OBO City of San Mateo during the course of my
relationship with you.
 
51 of 247

--- page 52 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  5
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2031
File ID: 23-7231
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
March 6, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Collaborative Solutions, LLC, Workday Lean-On Services Support – Budget Appropriation and Statement of Work Approval
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of unassigned fund balance in the General Fund of 
$112,650 to increase the Finance Department’s 2022-23 operating budget, and to approve the Statement of Work for the 
Master Services Agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for Workday Lean-On Services Support in the amount of 
$112,650, for a new agreement total of $2,979,545. Approval of the Statement of Work and a separate agenda item with 
Collaborative Solutions, LLC will result in a new agreement total of $3,381,765.
BACKGROUND:
In February 2022, the City Council awarded a contract to Collaborative Solutions, LLC (Collaborative) as a part of the 
enterprise resource planning (ERP) system replacement project in the amount of $2,527,160. Implementation of the 
Workday ERP is in phases, with Phase 1 covering the core financial elements, including accounting, accounts payable, 
accounts receivable, and financial reporting. Phase 1 began in March 2022 and went live on November 1, 2022. The 
Council previously approved change orders that added scope, time, and materials to the agreement. 
Currently, the agreement total is $2,866,895. There is an additional consent calendar agenda item scheduled for the March 
6, 2023 regular meeting for Change Order No. 4 in the amount of $402,220. If both the Statement of Work for Workday 
Lean-On Services Support and Change Order No. 4 are approved, the new agreement total will be $3,381,765. 
The Statement of Work (SOW) for Workday Lean-On Services Support, which is a contract amendment to the Master 
Services Agreement for additional services, primarily provides the City and San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (SMC 
Fire) with critical support services during the first year of being in a production environment, which primarily include: 
1. Support for system updates, including new features. 
2. Reporting and integrations, including custom reporting and new integrations with other systems used by operating 
departments beyond what was incorporated into the original implementation. 
3. Optimization of the Workday ERP, including modifications to business processes and security settings to meet the City 
and SMC Fire's needs. 
The one-year term of the SOW dovetails with the expiration of the extended post-production support of Phase I (Workday 
Financials) to ensure that the subject matter experts and staff that administer the Workday ERP have the support that is 
required to ensure the City and SMC Fire's growing and evolving business needs are met and realize the organizational 
efficiencies and benefits of the Workday ERP.  Based on the above, staff recommends approval of the SOW for Workday 
Lean-On Services Support and to adopt a resolution appropriating $112,650 of unassigned fund balance from the General 
Fund to the Finance Department’s 2022-23 operating budget.
52 of 247

--- page 53 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
BUDGET IMPACT:
The ERP replacement capital improvement project does not have sufficient budget to absorb the additional cost of the 
SOW for Workday Lean-On Services Support. As such, approval of a supplemental budget appropriation of unassigned fund 
balance in the General Fund in the amount of $112,650 is required in order to increase the Finance Department’s 2022-23 
operating budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Approval of the Statement of Work for Workday Lean-On Services Support and adoption of a resolution increasing the 
Finance Department’s 2022-23 operating budget is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or 
administrative activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines 
Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Statement of Work Workday Lean-On Services Support
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
53 of 247

--- page 54 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
RESOLUTION APPROVING A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION OF $112,650 OF UNASSIGNED FUND 
BALANCE FROM THE GENERAL FUND TO INCREASE THE FINANCE DEPARTMENT’S 2022-23 OPERATING 
BUDGET, AND APPROVING THE STATEMENT OF WORK FOR AN AGREEMENT WITH COLLABORATIVE 
SOLUTIONS, LLC IN THE AMOUNT OF $112,650 FOR A NEW AGREEMENT TOTAL OF $3,381,765
WHEREAS, the City Council awarded a master services agreement to Collaborative Solutions, LLC in 
February 2022 for enterprise resource planning (ERP) system implementation services (Agreement); and
WHEREAS, a proposed a change order for a Statement of Work to the Agreement in the amount of 
$112,650 is related for Workday Lean-On Services Support for the Workday enterprise resource planning (ERP) 
system; and
WHEREAS, these support services are critical to ensure that the evolving business needs of the City of 
San Mateo (City) and San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department (SMC Fire) are met with the Workday ERP; and 
WHEREAS, the Finance Department requires an increase in its 2022-23 operating budget to cover the 
costs of these support services; and
WHEREAS, there is a separate agenda item scheduled for the March 6, 2023 Regular Meeting for Change 
Order No. 4 to the Agreement in the amount of $402,220. If both the Statement of Work for Workday Lean-On 
Services Support and Change Order No. 4 are approved, the new agreement total will be $3,381,765.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This Council action is not subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity which does not 
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially significant physical 
impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.
A supplemental budget appropriation of $112,650 of the unassigned fund balance from the General 
Fund to increase the Finance Department’s 2022-23 operating budget is approved.
3.
The Statement of Work for the Master Services Agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for 
Workday Lean-On Services Support in the amount of $112,650 is approved.  If the Council separately 
approves Change Order No. 4 to the Agreement in the amount of $402,220, the new agreement 
total will be $3,381,765.
54 of 247

--- page 55 ---
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC.                                                                                                      
1 
Prepared For:
City of San Mateo
Preparation Date: January 17, 2023
Statement of Work 
Workday Lean-On Services Support
55 of 247

--- page 56 ---
City of San Mateo and Collaborative Solutions, LLC Statement of Work                    
March 6, 2023
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC.                                                                                                      2 
STATEMENT OF WORK
FOR
WORKDAY LEAN-ON SERVICES SUPPORT
This Statement of Work (“SOW”) is made effective on the 6th day of March 2023 (the “SOW Effective Date”) by 
and between City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation (“Client”), having its principal place of business at 330 
West 20th Avenue, San Mateo, CA 94403 and Collaborative Solutions, LLC, a limited liability company (“CSLLC”), 
an Affiliate of Cognizant Worldwide Limited (“Cognizant”), having its principal place of business at 11190 Sunrise 
Valley Drive, Suite 110, Reston, VA 20191 for Services scheduled to begin on March 6, 2023 (“Start Date”) and 
expected to end on March 31, 2024.   
This SOW, together with the Agreement, sets out the terms pursuant to which CSLLC will provide certain 
Services, as further described below. This SOW is being entered into in connection with and subject to the terms 
and conditions contained in the Master Services Agreement by and between Cognizant and Client dated as of 
February 1, 2022 (the “Agreement”). All capitalized terms used herein that are not otherwise defined shall have 
the same meaning as ascribed to such terms in the Agreement.
1.0 
Scope of Work (“Scope”) for Consulting Services 
1.1
Functionality Scope: Workday On-Demand Services Support
CSLLC will provide support or advisory Services for both planned and unplanned tasks, such as those 
representative activities listed in the table below, on behalf of the Client and covering the generally 
available Workday functionality license.
Activity
Functionality Scope/Support Activity Detail
Workday Support and Troubleshooting
Assistance with support activities may include, but is not limited to, 
troubleshooting issues, guidance and other day-to-day activities 
including assisting the team with support requests. 
New Functionality Review
CSLLC reviews new features and functions not yet implemented. 
CSLLC assists with new functionality reviews, which may include, 
but are not limited to, support and guidance for making decisions 
regarding the implementation of new functionality, such as 
employee/manager self-service, benefits, performance and absence 
management. 
CSLLC can also provide sample testing scenarios, if available, or can 
help support Client in creating new sample test scenarios on an as-
requested basis. 
Reporting and Integrations
Based on Client requirements, CSLLC may provide technical support 
including integrations, custom reporting, and business form layouts 
via the Business Intelligence Reporting Tools (BIRT) 
framework. Integration assistance may include the configuration 
and supports the testing of Workday packaged integrations and the 
development of Client integrations. 
Workday Solution Optimization
CSLLC is able to help improve the utilization of Client’s Workday 
solution, as well as the Client’s experience. Such optimization may 
include, but is not limited to, updating business processes, revising 
56 of 247

--- page 57 ---
City of San Mateo and Collaborative Solutions, LLC Statement of Work                    
March 6, 2023
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC.                                                                                                      3 
Activity
Functionality Scope/Support Activity Detail
organization structures, or modifying rules for security, business 
process, and organization for the full Workday platform. 
Knowledge Transfer
As agreed to by Client and CSLLC, CSLLC on-demand support may 
include knowledge transfer pertaining to the resolution of an issue 
and providing insight on how Client may troubleshoot similar issues 
in the future and advisory support including guidance on new 
feature sets, impact considerations, and solution guidance.  
Organizational Change & Training Post-
Production Services
CSLLC offers in-production Workday customers Services related to 
Organizational Change Management, Communications, and 
Training. If requested this can be a part of the Lean-On Service. 
1.2
Enhanced Managed Services
Managed Services are included for all CSLLC Continuous Value Services (“CVS”) customers. Enhanced 
Managed Services will be provided to Client and is supported by a Workday certified Engagement 
Manager. 
Managed Services (All CVS customers)
Enhanced Managed Services
•
Service delivery project management
•
Access to full platform Squad consulting team
•
Access and use of cloud-based ticketing system
•
Proactive periodic Workday communications
•
Periodic “one-to-many” webinars
•
Metric reporting
•
Ticket and Escalation management
•
Change Orders & New existing project scoping 
needs
•
Monthly Status Call
•
Workday certified Engagement Manager
•
High touch personalized engagement mutually 
defined with Client
•
Bi-weekly status meetings
•
Quarterly initiative check-ins
•
Semi-annual account reviews
•
Collaboration on projects
•
Ongoing Leadership Oversight
•
Partnership for future initiatives and road-
mapping
•
Bi-weekly Financial Reporting
2.0
Support Process
2.1
Ticketing System
Client’s primary contacts will submit all service requests via CSLLC’s ticketing system which will enable 
involvement by CSLLC support personnel for resolution. 
Requests will be managed depending upon the type as outlined below.  
2.2
Issue Resolution Support for Existing Configuration: As issue requests are received, CSLLC will:
a.
Provide Tier Zero (0), Tier One (1) & Two (2) support, which will be provided by CSLLC’s 
Global Delivery Center (“GDC”) located in India and Manila, Philippines. Tier Three (3) and 
Tier Four (4) support will be provided regionally in Europe, the Middle East and Africa 
(EMEA), North America, and Asia-Pacific (APAC) or by CSLLC's GDC located in India and 
57 of 247

--- page 58 ---
City of San Mateo and Collaborative Solutions, LLC Statement of Work                    
March 6, 2023
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC.                                                                                                      4 
Manila, Philippines on an as needed basis. Appendix A provides details on the tier support 
levels. 
b.
Acknowledge the request within twenty-four (24) hours of the Client’s normal business 
hours. Definition of normal business hours will be mutually agreed upon between the Client 
and the CSLLC Engagement Manager (“CSLLC EM”). If Severity One (1) emergency assistance 
is needed, Client will log a case with Workday. Examples of emergency assistance include a 
system down issue or business critical function such as payroll not processing correctly. In 
non-emergency cases where urgent assistance is required, Client will submit a request via 
the ticketing system indicating the nature of the urgent request and contact the CSLLC EM. 
The CSLLC EM will work with Client to outline a plan of action to address the urgent issue in 
a timely manner. This may involve after hours support for Tier Three (3) or Tier Four (4) 
support, if mutually agreed upon between both Parties. Support ticket requests initiated 
outside of standard hours of operation (i.e., Saturday and Sunday) will receive an initial 
response when the window of standard hours of operation becomes available.
c.
Request details on the configuration impacted, if not already provided.  
d.
Within forty-eight (48) hours of standard issue requests, determine a plan of action to 
support resolution of the issue. 
e.
Review configuration changes required with Client and request Client’s approval to apply 
fix.  
f.
If Client submits a request for assistance outside of the CSLLC ticketing system via any 
communication mechanism such as email, voice mail, text, or instant message, CSLLC is not 
subject to standard response times. 
 
2.3
New Configuration Enhancement Requests: As new modification requests are received, CSLLC 
will:  
a.
Receive the modification request in the ticketing system.
b.
Gather information on the requirements and systems involved.  
c.
Estimate the Scope of effort.  
d.
Request approval from Client, through ticketing system, to begin work via the ticket.  
•
If level of effort is expected to exhaust available hours or is estimated to take more 
than forty (40) hours, a separate Change Order or SOW may be prepared.  
•
The CSLLC EM will request resource(s) upon signature of the Change Order and can 
take up to ten (10) business days from date of signature. Schedule the work with 
Client as determined between Client’s Project Manager and CSLLC’s EM.  
e.
Complete configuration and unit testing. 
f.
Provide the change for user acceptance testing in Client’s sandbox or implementation 
tenant. CSLLC can assist with providing testing guidance, if requested. 
3.0
Services and Responsibilities 
This section identifies the Services to be performed by CSLLC and the Responsibilities of the Client.
58 of 247

--- page 59 ---
City of San Mateo and Collaborative Solutions, LLC Statement of Work                    
March 6, 2023
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC.                                                                                                      5 
Stage
CSLLC Services
Client Responsibilities
Transition|Plan - 
(Occurs prior to 
Support Services)
•
The CSLLC EM will participate and 
support the project kickoff meeting 
for the engagement
•
Create the work plan for identified 
support requests based upon current 
roadmap
•
Assemble the CSLLC project team 
based on planned work efforts
•
Jointly schedule workstream 
meetings 
•
Schedule recurring project meetings 
and status reporting 
•
Work with Client to set up CSLLC’s 
secure transfer site for sharing 
confidential/private employee data
•
Complete any Client required 
onboarding documents  
•
Gather and review preliminary 
documentation  
•
Configuration of ticketing system for 
CSLLC and Client  
•
Provide overview of ticketing system  
•
Participate in Project Kickoff Meeting
•
Request tenant access for CSLLC consultants 
identified for planned work
•
Identify and provide project team and project 
Subject Matter Experts (“SMEs”)
•
Provide input into the work plan based upon 
roadmap
•
Approve and sign off on work plan
•
Provide Client’s Tenant Management Strategy
•
Work with CSLLC to set up CSLLC’s secure 
transfer site for sharing confidential/private 
employee data
•
Sign off on stage
Support Services
•
Manage the work plan for support 
requests as identified in Section 1.1
•
Update the Client roadmap for 
planned support needs 
•
Participate in project status meeting 
in a time agreed upon by CSLLC EM 
and Client 
•
Conduct weekly workstream meetings 
between CSLLC functional/technical 
consultants and SMEs, on an as-
needed basis  
•
Provide knowledge transfer 
documents, on an as-requested basis 
•
Prepare, reconcile, and provide 
financial summaries to the Client 
•
Support Client’s Project Manager with 
issue resolution, and additional 
resourcing requests for unplanned 
needs 
•
Provide engagement artifacts 
•
Providing guidance in developing high 
level deployment plan(s), as 
requested  
•
Manage the Tenant Management Strategy
•
Inform CSLLC of changes to the Tenant 
Management Strategy  
•
Inform CSLLC of tenant refreshes two (2) 
weeks prior to scheduled date 
•
Provide input to the work plan 
•
Provide input into the Client roadmap 
•
Participate in weekly project and workstream 
meetings 
•
Provide SMEs for support requests   
•
Provide requirements for any support request 
•
Review and sign off on initial functional or 
technical design changes  
•
Define and document test plan and test 
scenarios (end-to-end, user acceptance, and 
regression)  
•
Create/Maintain defect tracking log 
•
Execution of all test scenarios (end-to-end, 
user acceptance and regression) 
•
Manage and sign off on all test results (end-
to-end, user acceptance and regression)  
59 of 247

--- page 60 ---
City of San Mateo and Collaborative Solutions, LLC Statement of Work                    
March 6, 2023
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC.                                                                                                      6 
Stage
CSLLC Services
Client Responsibilities
•
Provide sign-off documents, as 
required for support requests
•
Conduct sandbox and production migrations 
of configuration, unless requested in writing in 
advance per Section 2.2  
•
Conduct change management  
•
Sign off on any support request
4.0
Schedule
 
5.0
Assumptions & Dependencies
The Services, labor estimates, and Pricing presented in this SOW are dependent on the following assumptions 
being true:
a.
Client timely completes each item listed as a Client Responsibility in Section 3.0. 
b.
The Client will provide applicable SMEs in Client’s business processes, functional leads, and technical 
lead resources with whom to collaborate during the engagement. 
c.
The Client will have the necessary project and executive management support to review and make 
timely decisions as well as coordinate the activities of this project with other Client projects which 
may be occurring simultaneously. 
d.
Services will be provided during the normal business hours agreed upon between the Client and 
CSLLC EM and will be as closely aligned to the Client’s time zone as possible. Off-hours support can 
be provided and pre-scheduled in advance.
e.
CSLLC resources will provide their own laptops. 
f.
Unless otherwise agreed by CSLLC’s internal security organization, the Client shall use CSLLC’s secure 
transfer site for the secure exchange of sensitive employee data with the CSLLC support personnel. 
Client will agree to limit use for data conversion or production support purposes only for the 
duration of the activities required. CSLLC will inactivate the secure transfer site within thirty 
(30) days after the support activities are completed. Client will not use CSLLC’s site for the 
transmission of any integration files for third-party vendors. CSLLC is not responsible for back up, 
archiving, or maintenance of files stored on the secure transfer site. In the event CSLLC utilizes its 
internal “Daytona” tool for data conversion (“Daytona”), Daytona and all of its components must be 
installed on the CSLLC secure cloud server and utilized solely within CSLLC’s secure transfer site. 
Further, Daytona IP addresses must be added to the tenant whitelist. Daytona uses its own 
implementer account that must be excluded from multi-factor authentication.   
g.
If needed, CSLLC can provide Client access to its SharePoint site to maintain non-sensitive project 
artifact data for project or engagement support activities only. The CSLLC EM will provide access to 
assigned project team members employed by CSLLC.   
h.
If a data migration requires iLoad support by CSLLC, Client agrees that a tenant lockout will be 
performed.   
60 of 247

--- page 61 ---
City of San Mateo and Collaborative Solutions, LLC Statement of Work                    
March 6, 2023
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC.                                                                                                      7 
i.
Client will provide CSLLC consultants with implementer access in Production, Sandbox, and 
Implementation tenants in a timely manner. Any Client delays will impact issue resolution times as 
identified in Section 2.2.  
j.
Client will be solely responsible for testing and any move-to-production activities, which shall 
include configuration, business processes, data, reports and integrations. Client will provide written 
acceptance of test results to CSLLC prior to any move-to-production.   
k.
In the event CSLLC is required to assist Client with move-to-production activities, Client will provide 
written approval if CSLLC’s assistance is required during Client’s move-to-production activities. Upon 
completion of move-to-production activities, Client will verify production results and shall be solely 
responsible for production accuracy. Client shall provide written acceptance to CSLLC after such 
move-to-production activities have been completed. 
6.0
Term and Termination
a.
This SOW shall commence on the Start Date identified above and shall continue through March 31, 
2024 (the “Term”), unless terminated sooner by providing CSLLC ninety (90) days’ prior written 
notice. Upon termination of this SOW, which shall be in accordance with the Agreement, Client shall 
pay to CSLLC all amounts due and payable hereunder. Any unused hours will be forfeited. 
 
7.0
Pricing
 
Lean-On Service Subscription
a.
The Enhanced Managed Services are applied in conjunction with the Consulting Services of this 
SOW. If additional Consulting Services are requested pursuant to the Change Order process, 
Enhanced Managed Services will also be included.
b.
Flexibility exists to use hours for resource needs not listed above in the pricing matrix. This includes 
requests for new resources or an increase in resource hours. 
c.
Hours will roll over from quarter to quarter. Any unused hours at the end of the Term must be used 
within the first quarter of any mutually agreed upon renewal term.
d.
Any Services provided beyond the Scope of this SOW must be approved by Client pursuant to a 
Change Order.
61 of 247

--- page 62 ---
City of San Mateo and Collaborative Solutions, LLC Statement of Work                    
March 6, 2023
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC.                                                                                                      8 
e.
CSLLC will assign Client to a team support model comprised of CSLLC cross-functional and technical 
consultants with a built-in redundancy/backup. The team will support the areas outlined in this 
SOW. The CSLLC EM will communicate about the team as a part of the onboarding process. 
f.
Billing will occur prior to the start of each period for the hours indicated for each service period.   
g.
In the event Client exceeds the quarterly bucket of hours, CSLLC will promptly issue the following 
quarter’s invoice upon the overage, which shall be due and payable in accordance with the 
Agreement. Client can use the hours associated with the following quarter once the invoice is 
issued. 
h.
If Client exceeds the annual estimated fees associated in the pricing table set forth herein, CSLLC will 
prepare a Change Order.  
i.
Any and all fees associated with Client’s e-invoicing, portal, or payment solution will be the 
responsibility of Client without dispute. CSLLC will provide all necessary documents or invoices to 
confirm the fees, if such fees are incurred.
j.
Invoices will be emailed to the following address: rlee@cityofsanmateo.org. 
Any other mailed correspondence will be delivered as follows: 
City of San Mateo
Attention: Rich Lee, Finance Director
330 West 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
k.
Client will provide to CSLLC the Purchase Order Number created in connection with this SOW 
promptly following signature by the Parties.
8.0
Expenses
It is expected Services will be provided primarily on a remote basis. If travel is required, all reasonable travel 
expenses incurred by CSLLC related to the performance of the Services defined herein, shall be invoiced to 
Client. All such travel will comply with CSLLC’s Travel and Expense Policy, which shall be made available to the 
Client upon request. All fees or penalties incurred due to cancellations or changes of travel at Client’s request 
shall be invoiced to Client.
9.0
Signatures
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have duly executed this SOW by their respective authorized representatives 
as of the SOW Effective Date.
Collaborative Solutions, LLC
City of San Mateo
Authorized Signature
Authorized Signature
62 of 247

--- page 63 ---
City of San Mateo and Collaborative Solutions, LLC Statement of Work                    
March 6, 2023
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC.                                                                                                      9 
Name
Name
Job Title
Job Title
Date
Date
63 of 247

--- page 64 ---
City of San Mateo and Collaborative Solutions, LLC Statement of Work                    
March 6, 2023
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC.                                                                                                      10 
Appendix A 
Note: The location of support using CSLLC’s GDC or Global Squad will be determined by the level of complexity of 
the issue based upon the assessment of the CSLLC consultant in charge of triaging and servicing the ticket 
regardless of Tier level.   
 
64 of 247

--- page 65 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  6
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2031
File ID: 23-7267
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Finance Department
MEETING DATE:
March 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Collaborative Solutions, LLC Enterprise Planning System Implementation Services – Supplemental Budget Appropriation 
and Change Order
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution to approve a supplemental budget appropriation of $325,852 of unassigned fund balance from the 
Equipment Replacement Fund, $59,517 of unassigned fund balance from the Sewer Fund, and $16,851 of unassigned fund 
balance from the Construction Services Fund to increase the budget for the Enterprise Resource Planning Software Project, 
and to approve Change Order No. 4 to the master services agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for enterprise 
resource planning system implementation services in the amount of $402,220, for a new agreement total of $3,269,115.  
Approval of Change Order No. 4 and a separate agenda item with Collaborative Solutions, LLC will result in a new 
agreement total of $3,381,765.
BACKGROUND:
In February 2022, the City Council awarded a contract to Collaborative Solutions, LLC (Collaborative) as a part of the 
enterprise resource planning (ERP) system replacement project in the amount of $2,527,160.  The ERP supports 
administration of the City’s core functions, including administration of the Sewer Fund and Construction Services Fund.  
Implementation of the Workday ERP is in phases, with Phase 1 covering the core financial elements, including accounting, 
accounts payable, accounts receivable, and financial reporting. Phase 1 began in March 2022 and went live on November 
1, 2022. The Council previously approved change orders that added scope, time, and materials to the agreement.  
Currently, the agreement total is $2,866,895. There is an additional consent calendar agenda item scheduled for the March 
6, 2023 regular meeting relating to a Statement of Work for Collaborative Lean-on Support Services in the amount of 
$112,650, and if approved, the agreement total will be $2,979,545.  This Change Order No. 4 request is for the amount of 
$402,220 and if approved would result in an agreement total of $3,269,115, not counting the Statement of Work.  
Approval of both the Statement of Work and Change Order No. 4 will result in a new agreement total of $3,381,765.  
Phase 2 of the Workday ERP implementation began in October 2022, and has completed the Plan and Architect stages. Of 
the Configure & Prototype stage, the Customer Confirmation Sessions (CCS) have been completed. Change Order No. 4 
proposes critical configuration needs that were identified during the CCS that principally relate Human Capital 
Management onboarding documents, additional core compensation allowance plans, additional payroll earnings codes, 
and custom reports that include but are not limited to:
a.
State Controller’s Reports (mandatory compliance);
b.
Verification of Employment; 
c.
Library hours worked;
d.
Compensation Ranges and Salary Schedule;
e.
Workers’ Compensation Wages;
65 of 247

--- page 66 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
As reflected in Attachment 2, the additional scope will cost $112,460 and require an additional 13 weeks to the overall 
project timeline. The additional consultant time will cost $329,760 based on the number of hours required from the 
specific functional staff lead from Collaborative and an hourly rate of $180. Collaborative has reduced the change order by 
$50,000 to reflect its investment in the project and commitment to a successful ERP implementation.
Approval of Change Order No. 4 will increase the project timeline by 13 weeks, primarily consisting of 9 additional weeks in 
the testing stage, and move the go live date to December 24, 2023, which is the first day of the pay period that will have a 
pay date of January 12, 2024, which will be the first pay date for tax year 2024. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
The cost of Change Order No. 4 will be allocated between the City of San Mateo and the San Mateo Consolidated Fire 
Department (SMC Fire) as shown in Attachment 3 based on the proportional share of Full Service Equivalent (FSE), which is 
consistent with the allocation methodology used for Workday ERP implementation and ongoing subscription costs. 
However, since the Master Service Agreement is between the City and Collaborative, the City will pay for the full cost of 
Change Order No. 4, and SMC Fire will reimburse the City for its share. 
The proposed resolution, included as Attachment 1, approves supplemental budget appropriations of unassigned fund 
balances as shown in the table below:
Fund
Amount
Equipment Replacement Fund
$325,852
Sewer Fund
$59,517
Construction Services Fund
$16,851
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This change order is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not 
result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Proposed Resolution
Att 2 - Change Order No. 4
Att 3 – Cost Allocation for Change Order No. 4
STAFF CONTACT
Rich Lee, Director, Finance
rlee@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7102
66 of 247

--- page 67 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
RESOLUTION NO. ____ (2023)
RESOLUTION APPROVING A SUPPLEMENTAL BUDGET APPROPRIATION OF $325,852 OF UNASSIGNED FUND 
BALANCE FROM THE EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT FUND, $59,517 OF UNASSIGNED FUND BALANCE FROM THE 
SEWER FUND, AND $16,851 OF COMMITTED FUND BALANCE FROM THE CONSTRUCTION SERVICES TO 
INCREASE THE BUDGET FOR THE ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING SOFTWARE PROJECT (PROJECT NO. 
200001) BY $402,220, AND APPROVING CHANGE ORDER NO. 4 TO AN AGREEMENT WITH COLLABORATIVE 
SOLUTIONS, LLC IN THE AMOUNT OF $402,220 FOR A NEW AGREEMENT TOTAL OF $3,381,765
WHEREAS, the City Council awarded a master services agreement to Collaborative Solutions, LLC in 
February 2022 for enterprise resource planning (ERP) system implementation services; and
WHEREAS, Implementation Phase I, which brought Workday Financials to fruition, began in March 2022 
and went live on November 1, 2022; and
WHEREAS, Implementation Phase II, which primarily consists of Workday Human Capital Management 
(HCM) and Payroll, began in October 2022 and with City Council approval of Change Order No. 4, will go live on 
December 24, 2023, and have post-production support through January 21, 2024; and
WHEREAS, additional needs were determined as a result of the Customer Confirmation Sessions (CCS) of 
the Configuration & Prototype stage, including HCM onboarding documents, additional core compensation 
allowance plans, additional payroll earnings codes, and custom reports; and
WHEREAS, the cost of Change Order No. 4 will be split proportionately between the City of San Mateo 
and the San Mateo Consolidated Fire Department based on the Full Service Equivalent (FSE); and
WHEREAS, a separate agenda item is scheduled for the March 6, 2023 Regular Meeting relating to a 
Statement of Work for Collaborative Lean-on Support Services with Collaborative Solutions, LLC (Statement of 
Work) in the amount of $112,650. Approval of both the Statement of Work and Change Order No. 4 will result in 
a new agreement total of $3,381,765.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY RESOLVES 
that:
1.
This City Council action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is a government fiscal activity 
which does not involve any commitment to any specific project which may result in a potentially 
significant physical impact on the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4).)
2.
A supplemental budget appropriation of $325,852 of unassigned fund balance from the Equipment 
Replacement Fund, $59,517 of unassigned fund balance from the Sewer Fund, and $16,851 of 
unassigned fund balance from the Construction Services Fund to increase the budget for the 
Enterprise Resource Planning Software Project (Project No. 200001) by $402,220 is approved.
3.
Change Order No. 4 to the master services agreement with Collaborative Solutions, LLC for 
enterprise resource planning system implementation services in the amount of $402,220 is 
approved. If the Council separately approves a Statement of Work for the same master services 
agreement in the amount of $112,650, the new agreement total will be $3,381,765.  
67 of 247

--- page 68 ---
Project Change Order 
February 13, 2023 
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC   
 
 
1 
 
Project Change Order 
This Change Order form is used for requesting, documenting and approving changes to the Workday 
deployment or other applicable service offering, including, but not limited to, changes to the project’s 
Scope, changes for a major configuration element, project timeline/schedule changes, integration 
specifications changes, addition of resources or any other deliverable change from the originally planned 
Workday deployment or applicable service offering.  
Summary 
Client: 
City of San Mateo 
SOW/Project Name: 
PROJ_54648/ City of San Mateo, CA – HCM/Pay - Phase 2 
Change Order #: 
C04 
Project Manager (Client): 
Stacey Mansker-Young, Plante Moran 
Project Sponsor (Client): 
Rich Lee, Finance Director   
Engagement Manager 
(CSLLC): 
Silviu Nedea, Collaborative Solutions, LLC (“CSLLC”) 
Acceptance Due Date: 
2/24/2023 
Change Type: 
Change in Scope (additional hours added) 
 
Impact Assessed by: 
Ryan Roberts, Jane Davis, Gaurav Sethi, Hector de Zayas, Clay Gordon, Neil 
Brosnan, Amber Martin, Sarah Gardner, Dan Hann, Silviu Nedea 
Priority: 
Medium 
Billing: 
Bill under current project 
Contract Line Type: 
Fixed Fee Installment/Milestone  
Is new PO# required? 
No new PO# needed 
Request Description 
Post CCS Scope  
Business Purpose / Reason for Change 
• 
Scope adjustments as a result of the conclusion of CCS.   
• 
Break out earnings into several allowance plans, resulting in 12 new plans and codes 
• 
Additional 23 custom reports 
• 
Additional boomerang integration to zero out Gross and Subject Wage related calculations on OASDI 
EE and ER deductions 
• 
Project Go-Live moved to 12/24/2023 with post production support until 1/21/2024 
68 of 247

--- page 69 ---
Project Change Order 
February 13, 2023 
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC   
 
 
2 
 
 
Impact Assessment 
Project Activities 
Affected: 
Scope and Timeline affected as a result of this change order  
Deliverables 
Affected: 
As per Appendix A and B 
Project Schedule 
Impact: 
Schedule impact will include:  
• 
Project extension of 13 weeks 
• 
Current Go-Live Date 9/24/2023 
• 
New Go-Live Date 12/24/2023 
• 
Additional hours to account for the extended schedule as detailed in 
Appendix B 
 
Current Timeline 
Total 58 weeks 
 
4 
12 
13 
14 
7 
4 
4 
Current 
Plan Stage 
Architect 
Stage 
Configuration 
& Prototype  
Testing 
Payroll 
Parallel 
Deploy 
Post 
Production 
Start 
9/12/2022 
10/10/2022 
1/2/2023 
4/3/2023 
7/10/2023 
8/28/2023 
9/25/2023 
End 
10/7/2022 
1/1/2023 
4/2/2023 
7/9/2023 
8/27/2023 
9/24/2023 
10/22/2023 
 
Revised Timeline  
Total 71 weeks  
 
4 
12 
16 
23 
8 
4 
4 
Current 
Plan Stage 
Architect 
Stage 
Configuration 
& Prototype  
Testing 
Payroll 
Parallel 
Deploy 
Post 
Production 
Start 
9/12/2022 
10/10/2022 
1/2/2023 
4/24/2023 
10/1/2023 
11/27/2023 
12/25/2023 
End 
10/7/2022 
1/1/2023 
4/23/2023 
9/30/2023 
11/26/2023 
12/24/2023 
1/21/2024 
Change 
0 
0 
3 
9 
1 
0 
0 
 
 
Pricing Matrix 
The following is the change in effort and cost estimate: 
Scope Option 2 + Timeline Extension Option High  
Area 
CO #04 
Appendix  
Cost 
Scope Increase 
 
 
1) 
HCM, PATT, Integrations, Reporting & 
Integrations (Option 2) 
A 
$122,460 
2) 
Timeline Extension (High)  
B 
$329,760 
3) 
Collaborative Investment  
 
(-$50,000) 
Total for this Change Order (#04)  
 
$402,220 
69 of 247

--- page 70 ---
Project Change Order 
February 13, 2023 
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC   
 
 
3 
 
 
Payment Terms  
The total amount of CO4 will be split amongst the milestone payment beginning on 1/1/2022 and ending on 
8/27/2023. Payments for this change order will be made according to the milestone payment schedule below: 
 
Fixed Fee and Invoicing 
 
 
Event 
Invoice 
Date 
Invoice 
Amount  
 
CO4 
Revised 
Amount (After 
C04) 
Plan Stage:  Delivery of Plan Artifacts 
10/7/2022 
$124,314 
$0 
$124,314 
Architect Stage:  Sign off 
1/1/2023 
$251,529.75 
$0 
$251,529.75 
Configure Stage:  Delivery of End to End 
Tenant  
4/23/2023 
$251,529.75 $134,073.34 
$385,603.09 
Test Stage:  Completion of End to End 
Test  
7/9/2023 
$251,529.75 
 
$134,073.34 
$385,603.09 
Test Stage: Completion of Parallel Test 
8/27/2023 
$251,529.75 $134,073.32 
$385,603.09 
Deploy Stage:  Completion of Push to 
Production (Go Live)  
9/24/2023 
$310,785 
$0 
$310,785 
Post Production Support:  Completion of 
Project 
10/22/2023 
$62,157 
$0 
$62,157 
Total Payments 
  
 $       1,503,375 
$402,220 
$1,905,595 
Estimated Expenses 
  
$0 
 
 
Grand Total 
  
 $       1,503,375 
 
$1,905,595 
 
 
 
 
70 of 247

--- page 71 ---
Project Change Order 
February 13, 2023 
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC   
 
 
4 
 
Assumptions 
• 
All Assumptions from the SOW dated 21 February 2022 apply to this Change Order 
Authorization 
 
 
City of San Mateo Authorization Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
Collaborative Solutions, LLC Authorization 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
Name 
 
 
 
 
 
Name 
Job Title 
 
 
 
 
Job Title 
Date 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
 
71 of 247

--- page 72 ---
Project Change Order 
February 13, 2023 
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC   
 
 
5 
 
Appendix A – HCM, Integrations and Reporting 
 
Function 
Functionality Scope 
Quantity to 
Configure 
Hours 
Rate 
Cost 
HCM  
Onboarding Documents 
30 
60 
$180 
$10,800 
Core 
Compensation 
(Option 2) 
Break out the earnings into several 
allowance plans with as many 
earnings 
55+ new 
Allowance 
Plans  
100  
$180 
$18,000 
Payroll 
(Option 2) 
25-30 new Earning Codes: 30hrs 
30 
30 
$180 
$5,400 
Payroll 
Removal of Pay History from Scope 
 
-60 
$180 
($10,800) 
Reporting 
23 custom reports and alert 
configurations (as noted with ‘*’) 
High Priority Reports:  
RPT016 – State Controllers' Report 
Data (16 hours) 
RPT018 – No Pay Time Entry (8 
hours) 
RPT021 - Total Cost of 
Compensation (12 hours) 
RPT022 - Transparent California 
Reports (2 hours) 
RPT024 - Verification of 
Employment (20 hours) 
RPT038 - Payroll Accounting 
Distribution Detail (16 hours) 
RPT039 - Payroll Results Detail (4 
hours) 
RPT048 – Library Hours Worked (24 
hours) 
RPT054 – Position Vacancies (8 
hours) 
23 custom 
reports; 7 with 
alert 
configurations 
252  
$180 
$45,360 
72 of 247

--- page 73 ---
Project Change Order 
February 13, 2023 
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC   
 
 
6 
 
RPT059 - Compensation Ranges 
and Salary Schedules (16 hours) 
 
Medium Priority Reports: 
RPT002 – Vaccine Tracking* (8 
hours) 
RPT004 – Service Awards Program 
(6 hours) 
RPT005 – Work Authorization 
Expiration* (8 hours) 
RPT006 – Work Permit Expiration* 
(8 hours) 
RPT007 – DMV Frequent Driver 
Details (6 hours) 
RPT010 – DOT License and Medical 
Expiration* (8 hours) 
RPT019 - Multiple Worksite Report 
(8 hours) 
RPT023 - Workers Compensation 
Wages (16 hours) 
RPT045 - Performance Evaluation 
Due Dates* 16 hours) 
RPT052 - Per Diem Average 
Monthly Hours (12 hours) 
RPT061 - Acting Assignment Log (8 
hours) 
RPT062 - AOCP Reporting for PERS 
(16 hours) 
RPT066 - Expiring Fixed Term 
Contracts* (6 hours) 
Benefits 
4 additional medical plans for City. 
Plans are not currently in use, but 
workers are eligible. Best practice is 
to configure all plans for which a 
worker is eligible: 
Anthem BCBS HMO Del Norte City 
Anthem BCBS HMO Del Norte City 
Special Rate 
Blue Shield EPO Access+ City 
Blue Shield EPO Access+ City 
Special Rate 
 
1 additional EAP plan to support 
the two different rates for City first 
responders vs. non-safety: 
Concern EAP City Non-Safety 
 
7 Benefit Plans 
56 
$180 
$10,080 
73 of 247

--- page 74 ---
Project Change Order 
February 13, 2023 
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC   
 
 
7 
 
2 additional RHSA plans to support 
a ‘pool replacement’ plan for some 
workers hired before 12/31/2016: 
Voya City 0% EE 0.5% ER 
Voya City 0% EE 0.6% ER 
Security 
Addition of custom security groups 
to support workflow. 
7 Security 
Groups 
35 
$180 
$6,300 
Integrations 
2 IRS/ACA Connector Integrations  
2 Integrations 
25 
$180 
$4,500 
1 Boomerang integration to zero 
out Gross and Subject Wages 
related calculation on OASDI EE 
and ER deductions  
1 Boomerang 
Integration  
90 
$180 
$16,200 
Recruiting 
SMC Fire External Questionnaire 
- 
4 hours 
 
2 Custom Objects for Candidate 
Grid (Hiring Manager Review, 
Recruiter Review) 
- 
0 hours (completed during 
CCS) 
 
2 New Documents (SMC Fire Live 
Scan, SMC Fire Reference Check 
Authorization) 
- 
5 hours 
 
2 Additional Security groups to 
account for PD’s ability to create 
job reqs and route candidates 
through job application flow: 
- 
Hiring Sergeant Role (Role 
based security group 
available for Sup Org)  - 10 
hours 
- 
Primary Hiring Sergeant 
Role (Role based security 
group available for Job 
Requisitions)  - 10 hours 
 
29 
$180 
$5,220 
Talent & 
Performance 
RPT-068 –  Custom Performance 
Review Report with BIRT Layout, to 
remove employee comments from 
printed version  
 
Create 30 additional competencies  
1 Report  
1 BIRT Layout 
 
15  
+ 
15 
 
(30 Total) 
$180 
$5,400 
Time Tracking 
1 additional time entry template 
 
10  
$150 
 
$1,500 
Absence 
3 new leave types, 3 time offs.  
 
30  
$150 
$4,500 
74 of 247

--- page 75 ---
Project Change Order 
February 13, 2023 
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC   
 
 
8 
 
 
 
Total (Option 2) 
687 
 
$122,460 
 
 
 
75 of 247

--- page 76 ---
Project Change Order 
February 13, 2023 
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC   
 
 
9 
 
Appendix B – Timeline Extension – High  
Function 
Scope 
Hours 
Rate 
Amount 
WD Integrations Associate 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
13 
$180  
$2,340  
WD HCM Core Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
86 
$180  
$15,480  
MS 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
52 
$180  
$9,360  
WD HCM Functional Architect 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
0 
$180  
$0  
WD Reporting Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
26 
$180  
$4,680  
WD Data Conversion Principal 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
25 
$180  
$4,500  
WD Integrations Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
39 
$180  
$7,020  
WD Integrations Principal 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
0 
$180  
$0  
WD Payroll Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
347 
$180  
$62,460  
WD Data Conversion Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
26 
$180  
$4,680  
WD Benefits Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
102 
$180  
$18,360  
WD Integrations Principal 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
13 
$180  
$2,340  
WD Recruiting Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
148 
$180  
$26,640  
WD Talent Management Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
96 
$180  
$17,280  
WD Data Conversion Associate 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
25 
$180  
$4,500  
WD Change Management Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
57 
$180  
$10,260  
WD Absence Management Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
110 
$180  
$19,800  
WD Time Tracking Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
142 
$180  
$25,560  
WD Absence Management Associate 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
178 
$180  
$32,040  
WD Compensation Core Principal 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
86 
$180  
$15,480  
WD HCM Core Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
76 
$180  
$13,680  
WD Engagement Manager 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
87 
$180  
$15,660  
76 of 247

--- page 77 ---
Project Change Order 
February 13, 2023 
This agreement is proprietary and confidential to Collaborative Solutions, LLC   
 
 
10 
 
WD Learning Lead 
13 weeks timeline 
extension 
98 
$180  
$17,640  
  
Total (High) 
1,832   
$329,760  
 
 
77 of 247

--- page 78 ---
Cost Allocation
Total Cost of Change Order No. 4
402,220
                     
Entity / Fund
%
Amount
Basis
SMC Fire
22.99%
92,450.57
$                
Full Service Equivalent (FSE)
Remaining cost to be distributed to City operating funds:
309,769.43
$             
Sewer Fund
19.21%
59,516.54
$                
Fund's proportional share of total 2022-23 adopted operating budget
Construction Services Fund
5.44%
16,851.02
$                
Fund's proportional share of total 2022-23 adopted operating budget
Remaining cost to come from Equipment Replacement Fund
233,401.88
$             
Plus SMC Fire's share (that will be paid for by the ERF but reimbursed by SMC Fire)
325,852.44
$             
78 of 247

--- page 79 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  7
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-2313
File ID: 23-7233
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Human Resources Department
MEETING DATE:
March 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
E-Verify for Web Services Employers – Memorandum of Understanding
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve the Department of Homeland Security‘s E-Verify Memorandum of Understanding for Web Services Employers, 
and authorize the Human Resources Director to execute the agreement in substantially the form presented.
BACKGROUND:
New hires are required to complete a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Employment of Eligibility Verification form 
(I-9) and submit to their employer on the first day of employment. The employer must complete Section 2 of the I-9 
(“Employer or Authorized Representative Review and Verification”) within 3 business days of the employee's first day of 
employment. This includes physically examining employee's proof of identity and employment authorization. Currently 
this step is done in paper form.  
E-Verify is a program that electronically confirms a newly hired employee’s authorization to work in the United States after 
completion of the I-9 form. This Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) explains certain features of the E-Verify program 
and describes specific responsibilities of the Web Services Employer, DHS, and the Social Security Administration (SSA). 
A Web Services Employer is an employer who verifies employment authorization for its newly hired employees using a 
Web Services interface. 
The City is implementing Workday Human Capital Management (HCM), the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system 
that will replace the current ERP system. Workday provides integration with E-Verify that will allow the new hire to 
complete the I-9 form electronically as well as for Human Resource staff to verify employee's proof of identity and 
employment authorization. In order to utilize E-Verify and its web services, the City must agree to the E-Verify MOU. 
Pursuant to City Policy IV.G.3 – Authorization to Execute Contracts and Agreements, City Council must approve the MOU 
because it is an intergovernmental agreement.
BUDGET IMPACT:
The Memorandum of Understanding does not impact the budget, as there is no cost to use E-Verify services. Workday 
HCM implementation costs are included in the fiscal year 2022-23 budget. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This item is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
79 of 247

--- page 80 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - E-Verify Memorandum of Understanding for Web Services Employers
STAFF CONTACT
Teresa Abrahamsohn, Director of Human Resources
tabrahamsohn@cityofsanmateo.org
650.522.7276
80 of 247

--- page 81 ---
Company ID Number: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5-Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF DHSAND SSA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE E-VERIFY  
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 
FOR WEB SERVICES EMPLOYERS 
ARTICLE I 
PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY 
The parties to this Agreement are the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and 
 
(Web Services Employer). The purpose of this agreement is to set forth terms and conditions which the Web 
Services Employer will follow while participating in E-Verify. 
A Web Services Employer is an Employer who verifies employment authorization for its newly hired employees 
using a Web Services interface.    
E-Verify is a program that electronically confirms a newly hired employee’s authorization to work in the United 
States after completion of the Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification (Form I-9). This MOU explains 
certain features of the E-Verify program and describes specific responsibilities of the Web Services Employer, 
DHS, and the Social Security Administration (SSA).
For purposes of this MOU, the “E-Verify browser” refers to the website that provides direct access to the E-Verify 
system: https://E-Verify.uscis.gov/emp/. You may access E-Verify directly free of charge via the E-Verify 
browser.  
Authority for the E-Verify program is found in Title IV, Subtitle A, of the Illegal Immigration Reform and 
Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA), Pub. L. 104-208, 110 Stat. 3009, as amended (8 U.S.C. § 1324a 
note). The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 22.18, “Employment Eligibility Verification” and 
Executive Order 12989, as amended, provide authority for Federal contractors and subcontractors (Federal 
contractor) to use E-Verify to verify the employment eligibility of certain employees working on Federal 
contracts. 
Before accessing E-Verify using Web Services access, the Web Services Employer must meet certain technical 
requirements. This will require the investment of significant amounts of resources and time. If the Web 
Services Employer is required to use E-Verify prior to completion and acceptance of its Web Services interface, 
then it must use the E-Verify browser until it is able to use its Web Services interface. The Web Services 
Employer must also maintain ongoing technical compatibility with 
E-Verify.
DHS accepts no liability relating to the Web Services Employer’s development or maintenance of any Web 
Services access system.   
Page 1 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
81 of 247

--- page 82 ---
-Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
ARTICLE II 
RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
 
 
 
 
A. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE WEB SERVICES EMPLOYER
1. By enrolling in E-Verify and signing the applicable MOU, the Web Services Employer asserts that it is a
legitimate company which intends to use E-Verify for legitimate purposes only and in accordance with the
laws, regulations, and DHS policies and procedures relating to the use of E-Verify.
2. The Web Services Employer agrees to display the following notices supplied by DHS in a prominent place
that is clearly visible to prospective employees and all employees who are to be verified through the system:
a. Notice of E-Verify Participation
b. Notice of Right to Work
3. The Web Services Employer agrees to provide to the SSA and DHS the names, titles, addresses, and
telephone numbers of the Web Services Employer representatives to be contacted about E-Verify. The Web
Services Employer also agrees to keep such information current by providing updated information to SSA and
DHS whenever the representatives’ contact information changes.
4. The Web Services Employer agrees to grant E-Verify access only to current employees who need E-Verify
access.  Web Services Employers must promptly terminate an employee’s E-Verify access if the employer is
separated from the company or no longer needs access to E-Verify.
5. The Web Services Employer agrees to become familiar with and comply with the most recent version of the
E-Verify User Manual.  The Web Services Employer will ensure that outdated manuals are promptly replaced
with the new version of the E-Verify User Manual when it becomes available.
6. The Web Services Employer agrees that any person accessing E-Verify on its behalf is trained on the most
recent E-Verify policy and procedures.
7. The Web Services Employer agrees that any of its representatives who will create E-Verify cases will
complete the E-Verify Tutorial before creating any cases.
a. The Web Services Employer agrees that all of its representatives will take the refresher tutorials when
prompted by E-Verify in order to continue using E-Verify.  Failure to complete a refresher tutorial will
prevent the Employer Representative from continued use of E-Verify.
8. The Web Services E-Verify Employer Agent agrees to obtain the necessary equipment to use E- Verify as
required by the E-Verify rules and regulations as modified from time to time.
9. The Web Services E-Verify Employer Agent agrees to, consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and
policies, commit sufficient personnel and resources to meet the requirements of this MOU.
10.
The Web Services Employer agrees to comply with current Form I-9 procedures, with two exceptions:
Page 2 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
82 of 247

--- page 83 ---
-Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
a. If an employee presents a "List B" identity document, the Web Services Employer agrees to only
accept "List B" documents that contain a photo. (List B documents identified in 8 C.F.R. § 274a.2(b)(1)
(B)) can be presented during the Form I-9 process to establish identity.) If an employee objects to the
photo requirement for religious reasons, the Web Services Employer should contact E-Verify at
888-464-4218.
b. If an employee presents a DHS Form I-551 (Permanent Resident Card), Form I-766
(Employment Authorization Document), or U.S. Passport or Passport Card to complete Form I-9, the
Web Services Employer agrees to make a photocopy of the document and to retain the photocopy with
the employee’s Form I-9. The Web Services Employer will use the photocopy to verify the photo and to
assist DHS with its review of photo mismatches that employees contest. DHS may in the future
designate other documents that activate the photo screening tool.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Subject only to the exceptions noted previously in this paragraph, employees still retain the right 
to present any List A, or List B and List C, document(s) to complete the Form I-9.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. The Web Services Employer agrees to record the case verification number on the employee's Form I-9 or
to print the screen containing the case verification number and attach it to the employee's Form I-9.
12. The Web Services Employer agrees that, although it participates in E-Verify, the Web Services Employer
has a responsibility to complete, retain, and make available for inspection Forms I-9 that relate to its
employees, or from other requirements of applicable regulations or laws, including the obligation to comply
with the anti-discrimination requirements of section 274B of the INA with respect to Form I-9 procedures.
a. The following modified requirements are the only exceptions to a Web Services Employer’s obligation
to not employ unauthorized workers and comply with the anti-discrimination provision of the INA: (1) List
B identity documents must have photos, as described in paragraph 6 above; (2) When a Web Services 
Employer confirms the identity and employment eligibility of newly hired employee using E-Verify
procedures, it establishes a rebuttable presumption that it has not violated section 274A(a)(1)(A) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) with respect to the hiring of that employee; (3) If the Web Services 
Employer receives a final nonconfirmation for an employee, but continues to employ that person, the 
Web Services Employer must notify DHS and the Web Services Employer is subject to a civil money
penalty between $550 and $1,100 for each failure to notify DHS of continued employment following a
final nonconfirmation; (4) If the Web Services Employer continues to employ an employee after receiving
a final nonconfirmation, then the Web Services Employer is subject to a rebuttable presumption that it
has knowingly employed an unauthorized alien in violation of section 274A(a)(1)(A); and (5) no E-Verify
participant is civilly or criminally liable under any law for any action taken in good faith based on
information provided through the E-Verify.
b. DHS reserves the right to conduct Form I-9 compliance inspections, as well as any other enforcement
or compliance activity authorized by law, including site visits, to ensure proper use of E-Verify.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13  
83 of 247

--- page 84 ---
-Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
13. The Web Services Employer is strictly prohibited from creating an E-Verify case before the employee has
been hired, meaning that a firm offer of employment was extended and accepted and Form I-9 was 
completed.  The Employer agrees to create an E-Verify case for new employees within three Employer
business days after each employee has been hired (after both Sections 1 and 2 of Form I-9 have been
completed), and to complete as many steps of the E-Verify process as are necessary according to the E-Verify
User Manual. If E-Verify is temporarily unavailable, the three-day time period will be extended until it is again
operational in order to accommodate the Employer's attempting, in good faith, to make inquiries during the
period of unavailability. If, however, the Web Services interface is unavailable due to no fault of E-Verify, then
the three day time period is not extended.  In such a case, the Web Services Employer must use the E-Verify
browser during the outage.
14. The Web Services Employer agrees not to use E-Verify for pre-employment screening of job applicants, in
support of any unlawful employment practice, or for any other use that this MOU or the E-Verify User Manual
does not authorize.
15. The Web Services Employer must use E-Verify for all new employees.  The Web Services Employer will not
verify selectively and will not verify employees hired before the effective date of this MOU.  Employers who
are Federal contractors may qualify for exceptions to this requirement as described in Article II.B of this MOU.
16. The Web Services Employer agrees to follow appropriate procedures (see Article III below) regarding
tentative nonconfirmations.  The Web Services Employer must promptly notify employees in private of the
finding and provide them with the notice and letter containing information specific to the employee’s E-Verify
case.   The Web Services Employer agrees to provide both the English and the translated notice and letter for
employees with limited English proficiency to employees.  The Web Services Employer agrees to provide
written referral instructions to employees and instruct affected employees to bring the English copy of the
letter to the SSA.  The Web Services Employer must allow employees to contest the finding, and not take
adverse action against employees if they choose to contest the finding, while their case is still pending.
Further, when employees contest a tentative nonconfirmation based upon a photo mismatch, the Employer
must take additional steps (see Article III.B below) to contact DHS with information necessary to resolve the
challenge.
17. The Web Services Employer agrees not to take any adverse action against an employee based upon the
employee's perceived employment eligibility status while SSA or DHS is processing the verification request
unless the Employer obtains knowledge (as defined in 8 C.F.R. § 274a.1(l)) that the employee is not work
authorized. The Web Services Employer understands that an initial inability of the SSA or DHS automated
verification system to verify work authorization, a tentative nonconfirmation, a case in continuance (indicating
the need for additional time for the government to resolve a case), or the finding of a photo mismatch, does
not establish, and should not be interpreted as, evidence that the employee is not work authorized. In any of
such cases, the employee must be provided a full and fair opportunity to contest the finding, and if he or she
does so, the employee may not be terminated or suffer any adverse employment consequences based upon
the employee’s perceived employment eligibility status (including denying, reducing, or extending
Page 4 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
84 of 247

--- page 85 ---
-Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF DHSAND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
work hours, delaying or preventing training, requiring an employee to work in poorer conditions, withholding 
pay, refusing to assign the employee to a Federal contract or other assignment, or otherwise assuming that he 
or she is unauthorized to work) until and unless secondary verification by SSA or DHS has been completed and a 
final nonconfirmation has been issued. If the employee does not choose to contest a tentative nonconfirmation 
or a photo mismatch or if a secondary verification is completed and a final nonconfirmation is issued, then the 
Web Services Employer can find the employee is not work authorized and terminate the employee’s 
employment. Employers or employees with questions about a final nonconfirmation may call E-Verify at 
1-888-464-4218 (customer service) or 1-888-897-7781 (worker hotline).
18. The Web Services Employer agrees to comply with Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and section 274B of
the INA as applicable by not discriminating unlawfully against any individual in hiring, firing, employment
eligibility verification, or recruitment or referral practices because of his or her national origin or citizenship
status, or by committing discriminatory documentary practices. The Web Services Employer understands that
such illegal practices can include selective verification or use of E-Verify except as provided in part D below, or
discharging or refusing to hire employees because they appear or sound “foreign” or have received tentative
nonconfirmations. The Web Services Employer further understands that any violation of the immigration-
related unfair employment practices provisions in section 274B of the INA could subject the Web Services 
Employer to civil penalties, back pay awards, and other sanctions, and violations of Title VII could subject the
Web Services Employer to back pay awards, compensatory and punitive damages. Violations of either section
274B of the INA or Title VII may also lead to the termination of its participation in E-Verify. If the Web Services 
Employer has any questions relating to the anti-discrimination provision, it should contact OSC at
1-800-255-8155 or 1-800-237-2515 (TDD).
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19. The Web Services Employer agrees that it will use the information it receives from E-Verify only to confirm
the employment eligibility of employees as authorized by this MOU. The Web Services Employer agrees that it
will safeguard this information, and means of access to it (such as PINS and passwords), to ensure that it is not
used for any other purpose and as necessary to protect its confidentiality, including ensuring that it is not
disseminated to any person other than employees of the Web Services Employer who are authorized to
perform the Web Services Employer's responsibilities under this MOU, except for such dissemination as may be
authorized in advance by SSA or DHS for legitimate purposes.
20. The Web Services Employer agrees to notify DHS immediately in the event of a breach of personal
information. Breaches are defined as loss of control or unauthorized access to E-Verify personal data. All
suspected or confirmed breaches should be reported by calling 1-888-464-4218 or via email
at E-Verify@uscis.dhs.gov. Please use “Privacy Incident – Password” in the subject line of your email when
sending a breach report to E-Verify.
21. The Web Services Employer acknowledges that the information it receives from SSA is governed by the
Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. § 552a(i)(1) and (3)) and the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1306(a)). Any person who obtains
this information under false pretenses or uses it for any purpose other than as provided for in this MOU may be
subject to criminal penalties.
Page 5 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
85 of 247

--- page 86 ---
-Verify 
E-VERIFY ISA SERVICE OF DHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
22. The Web Services Employer agrees to cooperate with DHS and SSA in their compliance monitoring and
evaluation of E-Verify, which includes permitting DHS, SSA, their contractors and other agents, upon
reasonable notice, to review Forms I-9 and other employment records and to interview it and its employees
regarding the Employer’s use of E-Verify, and to respond in a prompt and accurate manner to DHS requests for
information relating to their participation in E-Verify.
a. The Web Services Employer agrees to cooperate with DHS if DHS requests information about the Web
Services Employer’s interface, including requests by DHS to view the actual interface operated by the Web
Services Employer as well as related business documents.  The Web Services Employer agrees to
demonstrate for DHS the functionality of its interface to E-Verify upon request.
23. The Web Services Employer shall not make any false or unauthorized claims or references about its
participation in E-Verify on its website, in advertising materials, or other media.  The Employer shall not
describe its services as federally-approved, federally-certified, or federally-recognized, or use language with a
similar intent on its website or other materials provided to the public.  Entering into this MOU does not mean
that E-Verify endorses or authorizes your E-Verify services and any claim to that effect is false.
24. The Web Services Employer shall not state in its website or other public documents that any language
used therein has been provided or approved by DHS, USCIS or the Verification Division, without first obtaining
the prior written consent of DHS.
25. The Web Services Employer agrees that E-Verify trademarks and logos may be used only under license by
DHS/USCIS (see M-795 (Web)) and, other than pursuant to the specific terms of such license, may not be used
in any manner that might imply that the Employer’s services, products, websites, or publications are
sponsored by, endorsed by, licensed by, or affiliated with DHS, USCIS, or E-Verify.
26. The Web Services  Employer  agrees  to complete  its  Web Services  interface no later  than  six months  after
the date the Web Services Employer signs this MOU.  E-Verify considers the interface to be complete once it has
bee n built purs uant to th e  Interface Control Agre ement (ICA ), sub mitted to E-Ve
 
rify for t est ing, and  approved
for system ac cess.
 
27. The Web Services Employer agrees to perform sufficient maintenance on the Web Services interface in
accordance with the requirements listed in the ICA.  These requirements include, but are not limited to,
updating the Web Services interface to ensure that any updates or enhancements are incorporated no later
than six months after the issuance of an ICA.  Web Services Employers should be aware that this will require
the investment of time and resources.  Compliance with the requirements of the ICA must be carried out to the
satisfaction of DHS and or its assignees.
28. The Web Services Employer agrees that any system or interface it develops will follow the steps for
creating E-Verify cases and processing tentative nonconfirmations, as laid out in the ICA, this MOU and the
User Manual, including but not limited to allowing an employer to close an invalid case where appropriate,
allowing an employer to refer a tentative nonconfirmation only when an employee chooses to contest a
tentative nonconfirmation (no automatic referrals), and referring a tentative nonconfirmation
Page 6 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
86 of 247

--- page 87 ---
-Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company ID Number: 
to the appropriate agency at the time the employer prints the referral letter and provides the letter to the 
employee. The Web Services Employer understands that any failure to make its system or interface consistent 
with proper E-Verify procedures can result in DHS terminating the Web Services Employer’s agreement and 
access. 
29. The Web Services Employer understands that if it uses E-Verify procedures for any purpose other than as 
authorized by this MOU, the Web Services Employer may be subject to appropriate legal action and termination 
of its participation in E-Verify according to this MOU.
B. EMPLOYERS THAT ARE FEDERAL CONTRACTORS WITH THE FAR E-VERIFY CLAUSE
NOTE: If you do not have any Federal contracts at this time, this section does not apply to your company. In the 
future, if you are awarded a Federal contract that contains the FAR E-Verify clause, then you must comply with 
each provision in this Section. See 48 C.F.R. 52.222.54 for the text of the FAR E-Verify clause and the E-Verify 
Supplemental Guide for Federal Contractors for complete information.  
1. If  the  Web  Services  Employer  is  a Federal  contractor  with the FAR  E-Verify  clause subject  to  the
employment  verification  terms  in Subpart  22.18  of  the  FAR,  it  will  become familiar  with and comply  with the
most  current  version of  the E-Verify  User  Manual  for Federal  Contractors  as  well  as  the E-Verify Supplemental
Guide for Federal  Contractors.
2. In addition  to  the  responsibilities  of  every  employer  outlined in this  MOU,  the Web Services Employer
understands  that  if  it  is  a Federal  contractor  subject  to  the  employment  verification terms  in Subpart  22.18  of
the  FAR  it  must  verify  the employment  eligibility  of  any  “employee assigned  to  the contract”  (as  defined  in FAR
22.1801). Once  an employee has  been verified through E-Verify by the Web Services  Employer,  the  Employer
may  not  create a  second  case for  the employee through E-Verify.
a. A  Web  Services  Employer  that  is  not  enrolled in E-Verify  as  a  Federal  contractor  at  the  time of  a
contract  award must  enroll  as  a Federal  contractor  in the E-Verify  program  within 30 calendar  days of 
contract  award and,  within 90 days  of  enrollment,  begin to  verify employment  eligibility  of  new hires  using 
E-Verify.   The  Web Services  Employer  must  verify  those  employees  who are working in the United  States,
whether  or  not  they  are assigned to  the  contract.  Once the Web Services Employer  begins  verifying new
hires,  such verification of  new  hires  must  be initiated within three business  days  after  the  hire  date.  Once
enrolled in E-Verify  as a  Federal  contractor,  the Web Services  Employer  must  begin  verification  of
employees  assigned to  the  contract  within 90 calendar  days  after  the  date of  enrollment  or  within 30  days
of  an  employee’s  assignment  to the contract,  whichever  date is  later.
b. Web Services  Employers  enrolled in E-Verify  as  a Federal  contractor  for  90 days  or more at  the time of  a
contract  award must  use  E-Verify  to begin  verification  of  employment  eligibility  for  new hires  of  the
Employer  who are  working  in the United States,  whether  or  not  assigned  to  the contract,  within three
business  days  after  the  date  of  hire.  If  the Web Services  Employer  is  enrolled in  E-Verify  as  a  Federal
contractor  for  90  calendar  days  or  less  at  the  time  of  contract  award,  the Web Services  Employer  must,
within 90 days  of  enrollment,  begin to use E-Verify  to  initiate  verification of new hires
Page 7 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
87 of 247

--- page 88 ---
-Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
of the contractor who are working in the United States, whether or not assigned to the contract. Such 
verification of new hires must be initiated within three business days after the date of hire. A Web Services 
Employer enrolled as a Federal contractor in E-Verify must begin verification of each employee assigned 
to the contract within 90 calendar days after date of contract award or within 30 days after assignment to 
the contract, whichever is later.  
c.
Federal contractors that are institutions of higher education (as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a)), state or
local governments, governments of Federally recognized Indian tribes, or sureties performing under a
takeover agreement entered into with a Federal agency under a performance bond may choose to only
verify new and existing employees assigned to the Federal contract. Such Federal contractors may,
however, elect to verify all new hires, and/or all existing employees hired after November 6, 1986.  Web 
Services Employers in this category must begin verification of employees assigned to the contract within 90
calendar days after the date of enrollment or within 30 days of an employee’s assignment to the contract,
whichever date is later.
d.
Upon enrollment, Web Services Employers who are Federal contractors may elect to verify
employment eligibility of all existing employees working in the United States who were hired after
November 6, 1986, instead of verifying only those employees assigned to a covered Federal contract. After
enrollment, Web Services Employers must elect to verify existing staff following DHS procedures and begin 
E-Verify verification of all existing employees within 180 days after the election.
e.
The Web Services Employer may use a previously completed Form I-9 as the basis for creating an E-Verify
case for
  an  employee 
 
assigned to a con
 
tract
 
 as long  as :
 
i.
That Form I-9 is complete (including the SSN) and complies with Article II.A.6,
ii.
The employee’s work authorization has not expired, and
iii. The Web Services Employer has reviewed the Form I-9 information either in person or in
communications with the employee to ensure that the employee’s Section 1, Form I-9 attestation
has not changed (including, but not limited to, a lawful permanent resident alien having become a
naturalized U.S. citizen).
f.
The Web Services Employer shall complete a new Form I-9 consistent with Article II.A.10 or update the
previous Form I-9 to provide the necessary information if:
i.
The Web Services Employer cannot determine that Form I-9 complies with Article
II.A.10,
ii.
The employee’s basis for work authorization as attested in Section 1 has expired or changed, or
iii. The Form I-9 contains no SSN or is otherwise incomplete.
Note:  If Section 1 of Form I-9 is otherwise valid and up-to-date and the form otherwise complies with 
Article II.A.10, but reflects documentation (such as a U.S. passport or Form I-551) that expired after 
completing Form I-9, the Web Services Employer shall not require the production of additional 
documentation, or use the photo screening tool described in Article II.A.5, subject to any additional or 
superseding instructions that may be provided on this subject in the E-Verify User Manual.  
Page 8 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
88 of 247

--- page 89 ---
-Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
g. The Web Services Employer agrees not to require a second verification using E-Verify of any assigned
employee who has previously been verified as a newly hired employee under this MOU or to authorize
verification of any existing employee by any Web Services Employer that is not a Federal contractor based
on this Article.
 
 
     
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. The Web Services Employer understands that if it is a Federal contractor, its compliance with this MOU is a 
performance requirement under the terms of the Federal contract or subcontract, and the Web Services 
Employer consents to the release of information relating to compliance with its verification responsibilities 
under this MOU to contracting officers or other officials authorized to review the Employer’s compliance with 
Federal contracting requirements.
C. RESPONSIBILITIES OF SSA
1. SSA  agrees  to allow  DHS  to compare data provided by  the Web Services  Employer  against  SSA’s
database.   SSA  sends  DHS  confirmation  that  the data sent  either matches  or  does  not  match the information
in  SSA’s  database.
2. SSA  agrees  to safeguard the information the Web Services  Employer  provides through E-Verify 
procedures.   SSA  also agrees  to limit  access  to such information,  as  is  appropriate  by  law,  to individuals
responsible for  the verification of  Social  Security  numbers  or  responsible for  evaluation of E-Verify or such
other persons or entities who may be authorized by SSA as governed by the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C.  § 552a), the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1306(a)), and SSA regulations (20 CFR Part 401).
3. SSA  agrees  to provide case results from  its database within three Federal  Government  work  days  of the
initial inquiry.   E-Verify  provides  the information to  the  Web Services  Employer.
4. SSA  agrees  to update  SSA  records  as  necessary  if  the  employee who contests  the SSA  tentative
nonconfirmation visits  an  SSA  field office and  provides  the required  evidence.   If  the employee visits  an SSA
field office  within the eight  Federal  Government  work  days  from  the date of  referral  to SSA,  SSA agrees  to
update SSA  records,  if  appropriate,  within the eight-day  period unless  SSA  determines  that more  than  eight
days  may  be necessary.   In such  cases,  SSA  will  provide additional  instructions  to  the employee.   If  the
employee does  not  visit  SSA  in the time  allowed,  E-Verify  may  provide a  final nonconfirmation to the
employer.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: If a Web Services Employer experiences technical problems, or has a policy question, the Web 
Services Employer should contact E-Verify at 1-888-464-4218. 
D. RESPONSIBILITIES OF DHS
1. After SSA  verifies  the accuracy  of  SSA  records  for  employees  through  E-Verify,  DHS  agrees  to provide the
Web  Services  Employer  access  to selected data from DHS  databases  to  enable the Web Services  Employer
to conduct,  to  the  extent  authorized by  this  MOU:
a. Automated verification  checks  on  employees  by  electronic  means,  and
b. Photo verification checks  (when available)  on  employees.
Page 9 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
89 of 247

--- page 90 ---
-Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF DHSAND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
2. DHS agrees to provide to the Web Services Employer appropriate assistance with operational problems that
may arise  during the Web
 
 Services
 
 Empl oyer's participati
 
on in the E-Verify program. 
 
DHS agrees
 
 to provide 
 
the
Web Services Employer
 
 names,
 
 titles,
  addresses,
 
 and
 
 telephone 
 
numbe
 
rs of DHS representatives
 
 
 to be
contacted during the E-Verify process.
 
3. DHS agrees to make available to the Web Services Employer at the E-Verify Web site
www.E-Verify.gov and on the E-Verify Web br owser 
 
(https://e-verify.uscis.gov/emp/), instructi
 
onal materials on
E-Verify policies,
 
 procedures
 
 and
 
 requirements
 
  for both SSA  and  DHS , inc luding rest rictions on the use of  E-
Verify.
 
 DHS
 
  agrees  to prov
 
ide tr aining materials on E-Verify.  
 
4. DHS agrees to provide to the Web Services Employer a notice that indicates the Web Services Employer's
participation in the E-Verify program. DHS also agrees to provide to the Web Services Employer anti-
discrimination notices issued by the Office of Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment
Practices (OSC), Civil Rights Division, U.S. Department of Justice.
5. DHS agrees to issue the Web Services Employer a user identification number and password that permits the
Employer to verify information provided by its employees with DHS.
6. DHS agrees to safeguard the information provided to DHS by the Web Services Employer, and to limit
access to such information to individuals responsible for the verification of employees’ employment eligibility
and for evaluation of the E-Verify program, or to such other persons or entities as may be authorized by
applicable law. Information will be used only to verify the accuracy of Social Security Numbers and
employment eligibility, to enforce the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) and Federal criminal or anti-
discrimination laws, and to administer Federal contracting requirements.
7. DHS agrees to provide a means of automated verification that is designed (in conjunction with SSA
verification procedures) to provide confirmation or tentative nonconfirmation of employees' employment
eligibility within three Federal Government work days of the initial inquiry.
8. DHS agrees to provide a means of secondary verification (including updating DHS records as necessary) for
employees who contest DHS tentative nonconfirmations and photo non-match tentative nonconfirmations
that is designed to provide final confirmation or nonconfirmation of the employees' employment eligibility
within 10 Federal Government work days of the date of referral to DHS, unless DHS determines that more than
10 days may be necessary.  In such cases, DHS will provide additional verification instructions.
9. DHS agrees to provide the Web Services Employer with an Interface Control Agreement (ICA).  This
document will provide technical requirements that the Web Services Employer must meet to create and
maintain a Web Services interface to the Verification Information System (VIS). VIS is a composite information
system that provides immigration status verification for government agencies and verification of employment
authorization for employers participating in E-Verify.
10. DHS  agrees  to provide periodic  system  enhancements  to  improve the  ease and accuracy  of E-Verify, as
needed.  DHS will also provide E-Verify enhancements to comply with applicable laws and regulations.  As
enhancements occur, Web Services Employers must update their Web Services interface to reflect
Page 10 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
90 of 247

--- page 91 ---
Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
system changes within the timelines specified in Article V.A.1. DHS will provide the Web Services Employer 
with an ICA to support the E-Verify release whenever system enhancements are required.  
11. DHS agrees to provide to the Web Services Employer guidance on breach notification and a means by
which the Web Services Employer can report any and all suspected or confirmed breaches of owned or used
systems or data spills related to E-Verify cases.  At this time, if the Employer encounters a suspected or
confirmed breach or data spill, it should contact E-Verify at 1-888-464-4218.
12. In the event the Web Services Employer is subject to penalties, DHS will issue a Notice of Adverse Action
that describes the specific violations if it intends to suspend or terminate the employer’s Web Services
interface access.  The Web Services Employer agrees that DHS shall not be liable for any financial losses to the
Web Services Employer, its employees, or any other party as a result of your account suspension or
termination and agrees to hold DHS harmless from any such claims.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE III 
REFERRAL OF INDIVIDUALS TO SSA AND DHS 
 
 
A. REFERRAL TO SSA
1. If the Web Services Employer receives a tentative nonconfirmation issued by SSA, the Web Services
Employer must print the notice and promptly provide it to the employee so that the employee may determine
whether he or she will contest the tentative nonconfirmation.  The Web Services Employer must review the
tentative nonconfirmation with the employee in private.  After the notice has been signed, the Web Services
Employer must give a copy of the signed notice to the employee and attach a copy to the employee’s Form I-9.
2. The Web Services Employer will refer employees to SSA field offices only as directed by the automated
system based on a tentative nonconfirmation, and only after the Web Services Employer records the case
verification number, reviews the input to detect any transaction errors, and determines that the employee
contests the tentative nonconfirmation.  The Web Services Employer will transmit the Social Security Number
to SSA for verification again if this review indicates a need to do so. The Web Services Employer will determine
whether the employee contests the tentative nonconfirmation as soon as possible after the Employer receives
it.
3. If the employee contests an SSA tentative nonconfirmation, the Web Services Employer will provide the
employee with a system-generated referral letter and instruct the employee to visit an SSA office within eight
Federal Government work days. SSA will electronically transmit the result of the referral to the Web Services
Employer within 10 Federal Government work days of the referral unless it determines that more than 10 days
is necessary. The Employer agrees to check the E-Verify system regularly for case updates.
4. The Web Services Employer agrees not to ask the employee to obtain a printout from the Social Security
Number database (the Numident) or other written verification of the Social Security Number from the SSA.
Page 11 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
91 of 247

--- page 92 ---
Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
 
 
B. REFERRAL TO DHS
1. If the Web Services Employer receives a tentative nonconfirmation issued by DHS, the Web Services
Employer must promptly notify employees in private of the finding and provide them with the notice and
letter containing information specific to the employee’s E-Verify case.  The Web Services Employer also agrees
to provide both the English and the translated notice and letter for employees with limited English proficiency
to employees. The Web Services Employer must allow employees to contest the finding, and not take adverse
action against employees if they choose to contest the finding, while their case is still pending.
2. The Web Services Employer agrees to obtain the employee’s response about whether he or she will contest
the tentative nonconfirmation as soon as possible after the Web Services Employer receives the tentative
nonconfirmation.  Only the employee may determine whether he or she will contest the tentative
nonconfirmation.
3. The Web Services Employer agrees to refer individuals to DHS only when the employee chooses to contest a
tentative nonconfirmation.
4. If the employee contests a tentative nonconfirmation issued by DHS, the Web Services Employer will
instruct the employee to contact DHS through its toll-free hotline (as found on the referral letter) within eight
Federal Government work days.
5. If the Web Services Employer finds a photo mismatch, the Web Services Employer must provide the photo
mismatch tentative nonconfirmation notice and follow the instructions outlined in paragraph 1 of this section
for tentative nonconfirmations, generally.
6. The Web Services Employer agrees that if an employee contests a tentative nonconfirmation based upon a
photo mismatch, the Web Services Employer will send a copy of the employee’s Form I-551, Form I-766, U.S.
Passport, or passport card to DHS for review by:
a. Scanning and uploading the document, or
b. Sending a photocopy of the document by express mail (furnished and paid for by the employer).
7. The Web Services Employer understands that if it cannot determine whether there is a photo match/
mismatch, the Employer must forward the employee’s documentation to DHS as described in the preceding
paragraph.  The Employer agrees to resolve the case as specified by the DHS representative who will
determine the photo match or mismatch.
8. DHS will electronically transmit the result of the referral to the Web Services Employer within 10 Federal
Government work days of the referral unless it determines that more than 10 days is necessary.
9. While waiting for case results, the Web Services Employer agrees to check the E-Verify system regularly for
case updates.
10.
DHS agrees to provide the Web Services Employer with an Interface Control Agreement (ICA).
Page 12 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
92 of 247

--- page 93 ---
Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Company ID Number: 
This document will provide technical requirements that the Web Services Employer must meet to create and 
maintain a Web Services interface to the Verification Information System (VIS). VIS is a composite information 
system that provides immigration status verification for government agencies and verification of employment 
authorization for employers participating in E-Verify. 
11. DHS agrees to provide periodic system enhancements to improve the ease and accuracy of
E-Verify, as needed. DHS will also provide E-Verify enhancements to comply with applicable laws and 
regulations. As enhancements occur, Web Services Employers must update their Web Services interface to 
reflect system changes within the timelines specified in Article V.A.1. DHS will provide the Web Services 
Employer with an ICA to support the E-Verify release whenever system enhancements are required.
ARTICLE IV 
SERVICE PROVISIONS 
A. NO SERVICE FEES
1. SSA and DHS will not charge the Employer or the Web Services E-Verify Employer Agent for verification 
services performed under this MOU. The Employer is responsible for providing equipment needed to make 
inquiries. To access E-Verify, an Employer will need a personal computer with Internet access.
ARTICLE V 
SYSTEM SECURITY AND MAINTENANCE 
A. DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
1. Software developed by Web Services Employers must comply with federally-mandated information
security policies and industry security standards to include but not limited to:
a. Public Law 107-347, "E-Government Act of 2002, Title III, Federal Information Security Management
Act (FISMA)," December 2002.
b. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Memorandum (M-10-15), "FY 2010 Reporting Instructions for
the Federal Information Security Management Act and Agency Privacy Management," April 2010.
c. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publication (SP) and Federal
Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS).
d. International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission
(ISO/IEC) 27002, Information Technology — Security Techniques — Code of Practice for Information
Security Management.
2. The Web Services Employer agrees to update its Web Services interface to the satisfaction of DHS or its
assignees to reflect system enhancements within six months from the date DHS notifies the Web Services
User of the system update. The Web Services User will receive notice from DHS in the form
Page 13 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
93 of 247

--- page 94 ---
Verify 
E-VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
of an Interface Control Agreement (ICA).  The Web Services Employer agrees to institute changes to its 
interface as identified in the ICA, including all functionality identified and all data elements detailed 
therein. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. The Web Services Employer agrees to demonstrate progress of its efforts to update its Web Services 
interface if and when DHS requests such progress reports.
4. The Web Services Employer acknowledges that if its system enhancements are not completed to the 
satisfaction of DHS or its assignees within six months from the date DHS notifies the Web Services Employer of 
the system update, then the Web Services Employer’s E-Verify account may be suspended, and support for 
previous releases of E-Verify may no longer be available to the Web Services Employer. The Web Services 
Employer also acknowledges that DHS may suspend its account after the six-month period has elapsed.
5. The Web Services Employer agrees to incorporate error handling logic into its development or software to 
accommodate and act in a timely fashion should an error code be returned.
6. The Web Services Employer agrees to complete the technical requirements testing which is confirmed 
upon receiving approval of test data and connectivity between the Web Services Employer and DHS.
7. DHS will not reimburse any Web Services Employer or software developer who has expended resources in 
the development or maintenance of a Web Services interface if that party is unable, or becomes unable, to 
meet any of the requirements set forth in this MOU.
8. Housing, development, infrastructure, maintenance, and testing of the Web Services applications may take 
place outside the United States and its territories, but testing must be conducted to ensure that the code is 
correct and secure.
9. Tf the Web Services Employer includes an electronic Form I-9 as part of its interface, then it must comply 
with the standards for electronic retention of Form I-9 found in 8 CFR 274a.2(e).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. INFORMATION SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
Web Services Employers performing verification services under this MOU must ensure that information that is 
shared between the Web Services Employer and DHS is appropriately protected comparable to the protection 
provided when the information is within the DHS environment [OMB Circular A-130 Appendix III]. 
To achieve this level of information security, the Web Services Employer agrees to institute the following 
procedures:  
1. Conduct periodic assessments of risk, including the magnitude of harm that could result from the 
unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of information and information 
systems that support the operations and assets of the DHS, SSA, and the Web Services Employer;
Page 14 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
94 of 247

--- page 95 ---
-Verify 
E•VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Develop policies and procedures that are based on risk assessments, cost-effectively reduce information 
security risks to an acceptable level, and ensure that information security is addressed throughout the life 
cycle of each organizational information system;
3. Implement subordinate plans for providing adequate information security for networks, facilities, 
information systems, or groups of information systems, as appropriate;
4. Conduct security awareness training to inform the Web Services Employer’s personnel (including 
contractors and other users of information systems that support the operations and assets of the 
organization) of the information security risks associated with their activities and their responsibilities in 
complying with organizational policies and procedures designed to reduce these risks;
5. Develop periodic testing and evaluation of the effectiveness of information security policies, procedures, 
practices, and security controls to be performed with a frequency depending on risk, but no less than once per 
year;
6. Develop a process for planning, implementing, evaluating, and documenting remedial actions to address 
any deficiencies in the information security policies, procedures, and practices of the organization;
7. Implement procedures for detecting, reporting, and responding to security incidents;
8. Create plans and procedures to ensure continuity of operations for information systems that support the 
operations and assets of the organization;
9. In information-sharing environments, the information owner is responsible for establishing the rules for 
appropriate use and protection of the subject information and retains that responsibility even when the 
information is shared with or provided to other organizations [NIST SP 800-37].
10.
DHS reserves the right to restrict Web Services calls from certain IP addresses.
11.
DHS reserves the right to audit the Web Services Employer’s application.
12.
Web Services Employers agree to cooperate willingly with the DHS assessment of information security 
and privacy practices used by the company to develop and maintain the software.
 
 
C. DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY REQUIREMENTS
1.
Web  Services  Employers  must  practice proper  Internet  security;  this  means  using  HTTP  over SSL/TLS
(also known as  HTTPS)  when accessing  DHS  information  resources  such as  E-Verify  [NIST SP 800-95].   Internet
security  practices  like  this  are necessary  because  Simple Object  Access  Protocol (SOAP),  which provides  a
basic  messaging  framework  on  which Web  Services  can be  built,  allows messages  to  be viewed or  modified by
attackers  as  messages  traverse  the Internet  and  is  not independently  designed with all  the necessary  security
protocols  for E-Verify  use.
2.
In  accordance  with DHS  standards,  the  Web  Services  Employer  agrees  to maintain physical, electronic,
and procedural  safeguards  to appropriately  protect  the information shared under  this  MOU
Page 15 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
95 of 247

--- page 96 ---
-Verify 
£•VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
against loss, theft, misuse, unauthorized access, and improper disclosure, copying use, modification or deletion.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Any data transmission requiring encryption shall comply with the following standards:
•
Products using FIPS 197 Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) algorithms with at least 256-bit 
encryption that has been validated under FIPS 140-2.
•
NSA Type 2 or Type 1 encryption.
4. User ID Management (Set Standard): All information exchanged between the parties under this MOU will 
be done only through authorized Web Services Employer representatives identified above.
5. The Web Services Employer agrees to use the E-Verify browser instead of its own interface if it has not yet 
upgraded its interface to comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) system changes. In addition, 
Web Services Employers whose interfaces do not support the Form I-9 from 2/2/2009 or 8/7/2009 agree to use 
the E-Verify browser until the system upgrade is completed.
6. The Web Services Employer agrees to use the E-Verify browser instead of its own interface if it has not 
completed updates to its system to the satisfaction of DHS or its assignees within six months from the date 
DHS notifies the Web Services Employer of the system update. The Web Services Employer can resume use of 
its interface once it is up-to-date, unless the Web Services Employer has been suspended or terminated from 
continued use of the system.
D. COMMUNICATIONS
1. The Web  Services  Employer  agrees to develop an electronic  system  that  is  not  subject  to any agreement  or
other requirement  that  would restrict  access  and  use  by  an agency  of  the United  States.
2. The  Web  Services  Employer  agrees  to develop effective controls  to  ensure the integrity,  accuracy and
reliability  of  its  electronic  system.
3. The  Web  Services  Employer  agrees  to develop an inspection and  quality  assurance program  that regularly
(at  least  once per  year) evaluates  the  electronic  system,  and  includes  periodic  checks  of electronically  stored
information.   The  Web  Services  Employer  agrees  to share the results  of  its  regular inspection and  quality
assurance program with DHS  upon request.
4. The  Web  Services  Employer  agrees  to develop an electronic  system  with the  ability  to produce legible
copies  of  applicable notices,  letters,  and  other written,  photographic  and graphic  materials.
5. All  information exchanged between the  parties  under  this  MOU  will  be in accordance  with applicable laws,
regulations,  and  policies,  including  but  not  limited to,  information security  guidelines  of  the sending  party
with respect  to any  information that  is  deemed Personally  Identifiable Information  (PII), including  but  not
limited to the  employee or applicant’s  Social  Security  number,  alien number,  date  of birth,  or  other
information that  may  be used  to  identify  the  individual.
6. Suspected and  confirmed information  security  breaches  must  be  reported to  DHS  according to Article
V.C.1.   Reporting such breaches  does  not  relieve the Web  Services  Employer  from  further
Page 16 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
96 of 247

--- page 97 ---
-Verify 
£•VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
 
 
Company ID Number: 
requirements as directed by state and local law. The Web Services Employer is subject to applicable state laws 
regarding data protection and incident reporting in addition to the requirements herein. 
E. SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTIONS
1. DHS  reserves  the right  to terminate the access  of  any  software developer  with  or  without  notice who creates  or 
uses  an  interface that  does  not  comply  with  E-Verify  procedures.
2. Employers  are prohibited  from  Web Services  Software development  unless  they  also create cases in E-Verify  to 
verify  their  new  hires’  work  authorization.  Those pursuing  software development  without intending to  use  E-Verify 
are  not  eligible to receive an  ICA.   At  this  time,  E-Verify  does  not  permit  Web Services  software  development  without 
also being a Web Services Employer  or Web Services E-Verify Employer Agent.
F. PENALTIES
1. The Web Services  Employer  agrees  that  any  failure on  its  part  to comply with the terms  of  the MOU may  result  in
account  suspension,  termination,  or  other  adverse action.
2. DHS  is  not  liable for  any  financial  losses  to Web Services  Employer,  its clients,  or  any  other  party  as a result  of 
account  suspension  or  termination.
 
 
 
ARTICLE VI 
MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION  
 
A. MODIFICATION 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. This MOU is effective upon the signature of all parties and shall continue in effect for as long as the SSA and 
DHS operates the E-Verify program unless modified in writing by the mutual consent of all parties.
2. Any and all E-Verify system enhancements by DHS or SSA, including but not limited to E-Verify checking 
against additional data sources and instituting new verification policies or procedures, will be covered under this 
MOU and will not cause the need for a supplemental MOU that outlines these changes.
 
B. TERMINATION
1. The Web Services  Employer  may  terminate this  MOU and  its  participation  in  E-Verify  at  any  time upon 30 days
prior  written notice  to  the  other  parties.
2. Notwithstanding Article V,  part  A  of  this  MOU,  DHS  may terminate this  MOU,  and thereby  the Web Services
Employer’s  participation  in  E-Verify,  with or  without  notice at  any  time if  deemed  necessary because of  the 
requirements  of  law  or  policy,  or  upon  a  determination  by  SSA  or  DHS  that  there has been  a breach  of  system 
integrity  or  security  by  the Web Services  Employer,  or  a failure on  the part  of either  party  to comply with 
established  E-Verify  procedures  and/or  legal  requirements.  The Web Services  Employer  understands  that  if  it  is a
Federal  contractor,  termination of  this  MOU  by  any  party  for any reason may negatively affect
Page 17 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
97 of 247

--- page 98 ---
-Verify 
£•VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
the performance of its contractual responsibilities.  Similarly, the Web Services Employer understands that if it is in a 
state where E-Verify is mandatory, termination of this by any party MOU may negatively affect the Web Services 
Employer’s business.   
3. A Web Services Employer that is a Federal contractor may terminate this MOU when the Federal contract that 
requires its participation in E-Verify is terminated or completed. In such cases, the Web Services Employer must provide 
written notice to DHS.  If the Web Services Employer fails to provide such notice, then that Web Services Employer will 
remain an E-Verify participant, will remain bound by the terms of this MOU that apply to non-Federal contractor 
participants, and will be required to use the E-Verify procedures to verify the employment eligibility of all newly hired 
employees.
4. The Web Services Employer agrees that E-Verify is not liable for any losses, financial or otherwise, if the Web Services 
Employer or the Employer is terminated from E-Verify.
ARTICLE VII 
PARTIES 
A. Some or all SSA and DHS responsibilities under this MOU may be performed by contractor(s), and SSA and DHS may 
adjust verification responsibilities between each other as necessary. By separate agreement with DHS, SSA has agreed to 
perform its responsibilities as described in this MOU.
B. Nothing in this MOU is intended, or should be construed, to create any right or benefit, substantive or 
procedural, enforceable at law by any third party against the United States, its agencies, officers, or employees, or 
against the Web Services Employer, its agents, officers, or employees.
C. The Web Services Employer may not assign, directly or indirectly, whether by operation of law, change of control or 
merger, all or any part of its rights or obligations under this MOU without the prior written consent of DHS, which 
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.  Any attempt to sublicense, assign, or transfer any of the 
rights, duties, or obligations herein is void.
D. Each party shall be solely responsible for defending any claim or action against it arising out of or related to E-Verify 
or this MOU, whether civil or criminal, and for any liability wherefrom, including (but not limited to) any dispute between 
the Web Services Employer and any other person or entity regarding the applicability of Section 403(d) of IIRIRA to any 
action taken or allegedly taken by the Web Services Employer.
E. The Web Services Employer understands that its participation in E-Verify is not confidential information and may 
be disclosed as authorized or required by law and DHS or SSA policy, including but not limited to, Congressional 
oversight, E-Verify publicity and media inquiries, determinations of compliance with Federal contractual 
requirements, and responses to inquiries under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
F. The individuals whose signatures appear below represent that they are authorized to enter into this MOU on 
behalf of the Web Services Employer and DHS respectively. The Web Services Employer understands that any inaccurate 
statement, representation, data or other information provided to DHS may subject the Web Services Employer, 
Page 18 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
98 of 247

--- page 99 ---
Verify 
E-VERIFV ISA SERVICE OF DH SAND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
its subcontractors, its employees, or its representatives to: (1) prosecution for false statements pursuant to 18 
U.S.C. 1001 and/or; (2) immediate termination of its MOU and/or; (3) possible debarment or suspension. 
G. The foregoing constitutes the full agreement on this subject between DHS and the Web Services Employer.
Approved by:  
Web Services Employer  
Name (Please Type or Print) 
Title 
Signature 
Date 
Department of Homeland Security – Verification Division 
Name (Please Type or Print) 
Title 
Signature 
Date 
Page 19 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
99 of 247

--- page 100 ---
Verify 
E-VERIFV ISA SERVICE OF DH SAND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
Information Required for the E-Verify Program 
Information relating to your Company: 
Company Name 
Company Facility Address 
Company Alternate Address 
County or Parish 
Employer Identification Number 
North American Industry 
Classification Systems Code 
Parent Company 
Number of Employees 
Number of Sites Verified for 
Page 20 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
100 of 247

--- page 101 ---
-Verify 
£•VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
Are you verifying for more than 1 site? If yes, please provide the number of sites verified for in each State: 
Page 21 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
101 of 247

--- page 102 ---
-Verify 
£•VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
Information relating to the Program Administrator(s) for your Company on policy questions or 
operational problems:  
Page 22 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
102 of 247

--- page 103 ---
5-Verify 
£•VERIFY IS A SERVICE OF OHS AND SSA 
Company ID Number: 
This list represents the first 20 Program Administrators listed for this company. 
Page 23 of 23 E-Verify MOU for Web Services Employers | Revision Date 06/01/13 
103 of 247

--- page 104 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  8
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-5141
File ID: 23-7243
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Police Department
MEETING DATE:
March 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Police Department Serological Expenses for Forensic DNA Testing of Evidence – Change Order
RECOMMENDATION:
Approve a change order to the San Mateo Police Department’s purchase order with Serological Research Institute for an 
additional $20,900 to cover the estimated remaining cost of service through June 2023 for forensic DNA testing of 
evidence for investigation purposes, bringing the total amount authorized for fiscal year 2022-23 to $110,900.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo Police Department regularly submits evidence for laboratory analysis. The collection and testing of 
evidence is crucial to solving crime, identifying suspects, strengthening criminal cases, and prosecuting offenders. Routine, 
non-DNA evidence such as analysis of fingerprints, firearms or drug testing is typically sent to the San Mateo County Crime 
Lab for processing. 
However, over the last year, there have been several high-profile homicide cases where processing of DNA forensic 
evidence with the utmost expediency was essential for both investigative as well as prosecutorial purposes. For these 
cases, evidence was sent to Serological Research Institute for processing. Serological is an accredited non-profit laboratory 
that offers biological testing services to law enforcement agencies. Their forensic DNA lab can expedite service to provide 
analysis results in as few as 48 hours. 
This fiscal year to date, evidence analysis conducted by Serological has exceeded $100,000 for a total of eight cases, which 
include homicides, attempted homicides, and gang shootings.  Funding for evidence analysis is included in the Police 
Department‘s operating budget. The City Council is the approving authority for purchases that exceed $100,000. Although 
the expansion of the purchase order requires City Council approval, the overall expenditures anticipated for evidence 
analysis are not anticipated to be significantly beyond the department’s budget allocation for this area.  
BUDGET IMPACT:
Funding for evidence analysis is included in the Police Department’s operating budget. There are sufficient funds in the 
2022-23 budget to fund this change order. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that will not result in 
direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
104 of 247

--- page 105 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 - Change Order 
STAFF CONTACT
Ed Barberini, Chief of Police
ebarberini@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7600
Dave Peruzzaro, Police Captain
dperuzzaro@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7684
105 of 247

--- page 106 ---
PROJECT   
 
P.O.  51-00657 
Serological Research 
Institute 
(#028249) 
CITY OF 
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA 
 
Contract Change Order No#1 
Distribution: Purchasing Division, 
Department File, Contractor. 
 
To  Purchasing 
 
Date:  
03/06/2023  
  
You are hereby directed to make the herein described changes from the plans and 
specifications or do the following described work not included in the plans and 
specifications on your contract. 
 
From  POLICE 
      
Description of work to be done, estimate of quantities, and prices to be paid.  Segregate between additional work at contract price, agreed price, and force account.  
Unless otherwise stated, rates for rental of equipment cover only such time as equipment is actually used and no allowance will be made for idle time. 
 
DESCRIPTION OF WORK 
 
Add additional $20,900 to cover the estimated remaining cost of service through June 2023 for 
forensic DNA testing of evidence for investigative purposes.    
 
 
Total cost of change not to exceed   
 
We, the undersigned contractor, have given careful consideration to the change 
proposed and hereby agree, if this proposal is approved, that we will provide all 
equipment, furnish all materials, except as may otherwise be noted above, and 
perform all services necessary for the work above specified, and will accept as full 
payment therefore for the prices shown above. 
 
By reason of this proposed change      days extension of time will be allowed. 
 
Accepted, Date            
Contractor 
 
By      
 
Title       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT 
 
Original Contract Price . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $90,000 
Previous Change Orders . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$       
 
          Total to date . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  
 
This Change Order . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . $20,900 
 
Revised Contract Price . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$110,900 
 
Approved By:                                        - Ed Barberini – Chief 
 
Approved By:                            - Drew Corbett – City Manager 
 
Department:    
Police_______ 
 
 
 
 
 
106 of 247

--- page 107 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  9
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-4666
File ID: 23-7263
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Public Works Department
MEETING DATE:
March 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Congressionally Directed Spending Request For 19th Avenue/Fashion Island Boulevard Class IV Bikeway Project – Letters of 
Support 
RECOMMENDATION:
Authorize the Mayor to sign letters of support on behalf of the City of San Mateo to Senator Dianne Feinstein, Senator Alex 
Padilla, and Representative Kevin Mullin for the San Mateo County Transportation Authority's request for congressionally 
directed spending for the 19th Avenue/Fashion Island Boulevard Class IV Bikeway Project.
BACKGROUND:
The San Mateo County Transportation Authority (TA) is seeking letters of support from the City in support of their request 
for congressionally directed spending for the 19th Avenue/Fashion Island Boulevard Class IV Bikeway project (Project). The 
Project is part of a joint effort between the City, TA, and SamTrans to design and construct multimodal improvements as 
part of the 101/92 Interchange Projects. The Project includes feasibility, design, and construction of Class IV separated 
bicycle lanes on 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Boulevard as identified in the City’s 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, including 
intersection improvements, and is expected to connect directly to a proposed Mobility Hub at the existing Caltrans Park 
and Ride location. 
The City and TA have jointly applied for and received grant funding from several programs to fund approximately $6 
million of the estimated $8 million total cost for the bikeway project. The TA is submitting a congressionally directed 
spending request of $2 million for the Project as part of the Fiscal Year 2024 appropriations process. If approved, these 
monies will close the funding gap to fully fund the Project through construction. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no fiscal impact associated with approving these letters of support. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
Authorizing these letters of support is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative 
activity that will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 
15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
107 of 247

--- page 108 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Letter of Support - Senator Dianne Feinstein
Att 2 - Letter of Support - Senator Alex Padilla
Att 3 - Letter of Support - Representative Kevin Mullin
STAFF CONTACT
Sue-Ellen Atkinson, Principal Transportation Planner
seatkinson@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7288
108 of 247

--- page 109 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
                                                                            
March 6, 2023
The Honorable Dianne Feinstein 
United States Senate 
331 Hart Senate Office Building 
Washington, D.C. 20510
Subject: LETTER OF SUPPORT FOR CONGRESSIONALLY DIRECTED SPENDING REQUEST FOR 19TH 
AVENUE/FASHION ISLAND BOULEVARD CLASS IV BIKEWAY PROJECT 
Dear Senator Feinstein:
On behalf of the City of San Mateo City Council I write in support of the San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority’s (TA) Congressionally Directing Spending Request of $2 million for the 19th Avenue/Fashion Island 
Boulevard Complete Street Class IV Bikeway as part of the Fiscal Year 2024 appropriations process. The 
Bikeway is located along 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Boulevard between the City of San Mateo and City 
of Foster City in San Mateo County, California. 
Your support will help complete the construction of a new mile long separated bikeway, connecting the 
Hayward Park Caltrain Station to residences and business centers in eastern San Mateo and Foster City that 
are currently separated by the US 101 Highway (US 101) and waterways. It will also provide access under the 
US 101 and State Route (SR) 92 Interchange (US 101/SR 92 Interchange), and improve pedestrian access at 
four intersections along the bikeway corridor.
The TA has partnered with the City of San Mateo as a co-sponsor to help deliver this project and bridge a 
significant transportation gap between the cities of San Mateo and Foster City. Currently, this high traffic 
corridor lacks safe and adequate facilities for bicycle, pedestrian, and transit users. Once completed, the 
new bikeway will provide access to a safe and affordable alternative mode of transportation through the US 
101/SR 92 Interchange, which has long been a physical transportation barrier between the two cities. By 
improving the intersections at highway entrance/exit ramps, transit-dependent pedestrians and bicyclists in 
both cities will have safe and comfortable access to additional transit options. 
According to the UC Berkeley Transportation Injury Mapping System, from January 2016 to December 2020 
there were a total of 14 vehicle, two pedestrian-involved, and one bicycle-involved collisions along this 
corridor. The bikeway will implement proven safety measures including: physical separation between the 
bicycle lanes and the highway, reduced crossing distances and high visibility crosswalk striping for 
pedestrians, and traffic calming features to slow car traffic. These unique features will help children, families 
and seniors using the corridor safely reach their destinations. Scaled lighting will also be installed along the 
bikeway to help enhance the visibility of bicyclists and pedestrians using the corridor at night.
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
    
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
    
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7000
109 of 247

--- page 110 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
We applaud the TA’s efforts to complete this transformative project and we hope you will prioritize it for 
funding as part of the Fiscal Year 2024 Department of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development 
Appropriations Bill. 
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely, 
Amourence Lee
Mayor
110 of 247

--- page 111 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
                                                                            
March 6, 2023
The Honorable Alex Padilla
United States Senate 
112 Hart Senate Office Building
Washington, DC 20510
Subject: LETTER OF SUPPORT FOR CONGRESSIONALLY DIRECTED SPENDING REQUEST FOR 19TH 
AVENUE/FASHION ISLAND BOULEVARD CLASS IV BIKEWAY PROJECT 
Dear Senator Padilla:
On behalf of the City of San Mateo City Council I write in support of the San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority’s (TA) Congressionally Directing Spending Request of $2 million for the 19th Avenue/Fashion Island 
Boulevard Complete Street Class IV Bikeway as part of the Fiscal Year 2024 appropriations process. The 
Bikeway is located along 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Boulevard between the City of San Mateo and City 
of Foster City in San Mateo County, California. 
Your support will help complete the construction of a new mile long separated bikeway, connecting the 
Hayward Park Caltrain Station to residences and business centers in eastern San Mateo and Foster City that 
are currently separated by the US 101 Highway (US 101) and waterways. It will also provide access under the 
US 101 and State Route (SR) 92 Interchange (US 101/SR 92 Interchange), and improve pedestrian access at 
four intersections along the bikeway corridor.
The TA has partnered with the City of San Mateo as a co-sponsor to help deliver this project and bridge a 
significant transportation gap between the cities of San Mateo and Foster City. Currently, this high traffic 
corridor lacks safe and adequate facilities for bicycle, pedestrian, and transit users. Once completed, the 
new bikeway will provide access to a safe and affordable alternative mode of transportation through the US 
101/SR 92 Interchange, which has long been a physical transportation barrier between the two cities. By 
improving the intersections at highway entrance/exit ramps, transit-dependent pedestrians and bicyclists in 
both cities will have safe and comfortable access to additional transit options. 
According to the UC Berkeley Transportation Injury Mapping System, from January 2016 to December 2020 
there were a total of 14 vehicle, two pedestrian-involved, and one bicycle-involved collisions along this 
corridor. The bikeway will implement proven safety measures including: physical separation between the 
bicycle lanes and the highway, reduced crossing distances and high visibility crosswalk striping for 
pedestrians, and traffic calming features to slow car traffic. These unique features will help children, families 
and seniors using the corridor safely reach their destinations. Scaled lighting will also be installed along the 
bikeway to help enhance the visibility of bicyclists and pedestrians using the corridor at night.
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
    
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
    
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7000
111 of 247

--- page 112 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
We applaud the TA’s efforts to complete this transformative project and we hope you will prioritize it for 
funding as part of the Fiscal Year 2024 Department of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development 
Appropriations Bill. 
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely, 
Amourence Lee
Mayor
112 of 247

--- page 113 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
                                                                            
March 6, 2023
The Honorable Kevin Mullin 
U.S. House of Representatives 
1404 Longworth House Office Building
Washington, DC  20515
Subject: LETTER OF SUPPORT FOR CONGRESSIONALLY DIRECTED SPENDING REQUEST FOR 19TH 
AVENUE/FASHION ISLAND BOULEVARD CLASS IV BIKEWAY PROJECT 
Dear Representative Mullin:
On behalf of the City of San Mateo City Council I write in support of the San Mateo County Transportation 
Authority’s (TA) Congressionally Directing Spending Request of $2 million for the 19th Avenue/Fashion Island 
Boulevard Complete Street Class IV Bikeway as part of the Fiscal Year 2024 appropriations process. The 
Bikeway is located along 19th Avenue and Fashion Island Boulevard between the City of San Mateo and City 
of Foster City in San Mateo County, California. 
Your support will help complete the construction of a new mile long separated bikeway, connecting the 
Hayward Park Caltrain Station to residences and business centers in eastern San Mateo and Foster City that 
are currently separated by the US 101 Highway (US 101) and waterways. It will also provide access under the 
US 101 and State Route (SR) 92 Interchange (US 101/SR 92 Interchange), and improve pedestrian access at 
four intersections along the bikeway corridor.
The TA has partnered with the City of San Mateo as a co-sponsor to help deliver this project and bridge a 
significant transportation gap between the cities of San Mateo and Foster City. Currently, this high traffic 
corridor lacks safe and adequate facilities for bicycle, pedestrian, and transit users. Once completed, the 
new bikeway will provide access to a safe and affordable alternative mode of transportation through the US 
101/SR 92 Interchange, which has long been a physical transportation barrier between the two cities. By 
improving the intersections at highway entrance/exit ramps, transit-dependent pedestrians and bicyclists in 
both cities will have safe and comfortable access to additional transit options. 
According to the UC Berkeley Transportation Injury Mapping System, from January 2016 to December 2020 
there were a total of 14 vehicle, two pedestrian-involved, and one bicycle-involved collisions along this 
corridor. The bikeway will implement proven safety measures including: physical separation between the 
bicycle lanes and the highway, reduced crossing distances and high visibility crosswalk striping for 
pedestrians, and traffic calming features to slow car traffic. These unique features will help children, families 
and seniors using the corridor safely reach their destinations. Scaled lighting will also be installed along the 
bikeway to help enhance the visibility of bicyclists and pedestrians using the corridor at night.
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
    
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
    
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7000
113 of 247

--- page 114 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
We applaud the TA’s efforts to complete this transformative project and we hope you will prioritize it for 
funding as part of the Fiscal Year 2024 Department of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development 
Appropriations Bill. 
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Sincerely, 
Amourence Lee
Mayor
114 of 247

--- page 115 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  10
Section Name: CONSENT CALENDAR
Account Number: 10-1311
File ID: 23-7264
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
City Manager's Office
MEETING DATE:
March 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
Congressionally Directed Spending Projects/Community Funded Projects – Letters of Support
RECOMMENDATION:
Authorize letters of support signed by Mayor Lee to be submitted to Senator Feinstein, Senator Padilla, and Representative 
Mullin for Congressionally Directed Spending/Community Funded projects in San Mateo.
BACKGROUND:
California Senators Padilla and Feinstein recently opened the process for submitting requests for Congressionally Directed 
Spending (CDS) projects, with a due date for submissions of March 3, 2023 and March 13, 2023, respectively. 
Representative Mullin is also expected to open his process for Community Funded Projects (CFP) projects soon. Working 
with our federal affairs consultant Smith, Dawson, and Andrews, staff has selected the King Pool rehabilitation project to 
submit and is requesting $1.5 million in funding.  In total, this project is estimated to cost approximately $6 million dollars, 
and the remaining amount will need to be funded by the City.  This project will be included in the forthcoming five-year 
Capital Improvement Program. 
BUDGET IMPACT:
There is no budgetary impact for submitting these letters of support. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
This administrative action is not a project subject to CEQA, because it is an organizational or administrative activity that 
will not result in direct or indirect physical changes in the environment. (CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(5).)
NOTICE PROVIDED
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Letter of Support – Padilla
Att 2 – Letter of Support – Feinstein
Att 3 – Letter of Support – Mullin
STAFF CONTACT
Drew Corbett, City Manager
dcorbett@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7002
115 of 247

--- page 116 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
                                                                            
March 7, 2023
 
The Honorable Alex Padilla
U.S. Senate
112 Hart Senate Office Building
Washington, DC 20510
RE: SUPPORT: City of San Mateo CDS Request – Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center Rehabilitation
Senator Padilla:
On behalf of the San Mateo City Council and our more than 105,000 residents, we endorse and strongly support the 
City of San Mateo’s CDS Request for $1,500,000 to renovate and rehabilitate the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Community 
Center (King Center).
The King Center is in the historic North Central neighborhood of San Mateo.  North Central is a densely populated, 
ethnically and racially diverse neighborhood that is home to the most underserved population in San Mateo.  The Dr. 
Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center and Pool is a critical resource to this community for services and 
programming.  The continued deterioration of both the Center and the King Pool threatens its ongoing viability.  Its 
closure would put hundreds of children and young adults at risk of being denied a critical life skill – learning to swim. 
Built in 1969, the Center has not had any significant renovations or upgrades since then.  In addition to being out of 
compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, there currently are several issues that threaten the City’s ability 
to continue to operate both the center and the pool. 
 
These issues include cracking and lifting of the pool deck, damage to the pool shell, an out-of-code single circulation 
system for two bodies of water, and a water turnover rate 50% lower than current standards.  Should the capital 
investment to modernize the pool and bring it up to code not be made, the pool is at risk of being inoperable.  This 
would have a devastating impact on the community and would create a significant life-safety issue, as each year the 
King Pool through the seasonal aquatics program offers over 900 children and young adults the opportunity to learn to 
swim. 
For all the aforementioned reasons, the San Mateo City Council supports the City of San Mateo’s CDS request for 
$1,500,000 to renovate and rehabilitate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center. 
Sincerely,
Amourence Lee
Mayor
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
MAYOR
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7522 ext. 6262
116 of 247

--- page 117 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
                                                                            
March 7, 2023
The Honorable Dianne Feinstein
U.S. Senate
331 Hart Senate Office Building
Washington, DC 20510
RE: SUPPORT: City of San Mateo CDS Request – Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center Rehabilitation
Senator Feinstein:
On behalf of the San Mateo City Council and our more than 105,000 residents, we endorse and strongly support the 
City of San Mateo’s CDS Request for $1,500,000 to renovate and rehabilitate the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Community 
Center (King Center).
The King Center is in the historic North Central neighborhood of San Mateo.  North Central is a densely populated, 
ethnically and racially diverse neighborhood that is home to the most underserved population in San Mateo.  The Dr. 
Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center and Pool is a critical resource to this community for services and 
programming.  The continued deterioration of both the Center and the King Pool threatens its ongoing viability.  Its 
closure would put hundreds of children and young adults at risk of being denied a critical life skill – learning to swim. 
Built in 1969, the Center has not had any significant renovations or upgrades since then.  In addition to being out of 
compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, there currently are several issues that threaten the City’s ability 
to continue to operate both the center and the pool. 
 
These issues include cracking and lifting of the pool deck, damage to the pool shell, an out-of-code single circulation 
system for two bodies of water, and a water turnover rate 50% lower than current standards.  Should the capital 
investment to modernize the pool and bring it up to code not be made, the pool is at risk of being inoperable.  This 
would have a devastating impact on the community and would create a significant life-safety issue, as each year the 
King Pool through the seasonal aquatics program offers over 900 children and young adults the opportunity to learn to 
swim. 
For all the aforementioned reasons, the San Mateo City Council supports the City of San Mateo’s CDS request for 
$1,500,000 to renovate and rehabilitate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center. 
Thank you,
Amourence Lee, Mayor
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
MAYOR
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7522 ext. 6262
117 of 247

--- page 118 ---
· Main Line (650) 522-7000 · 
                                                                            
March 7, 2023
The Honorable Kevin Mullin
House of Representatives
1404 Longworth House Office Building
Washington, DC 20515
RE: SUPPORT: City of San Mateo CPF Request – Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center Rehabilitation
Representative Mullin:
On behalf of the San Mateo City Council and the more than 105,000 residents in the City of San Mateo, we endorse 
and strongly support the City of San Mateo’s Community Project Funding (CPF) Request for $1,500,000 to renovate 
and rehabilitate the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center (King Center).
The King Center is in the historic North Central neighborhood of San Mateo.  North Central is a densely populated, 
ethnically and racially diverse neighborhood that is home to the most underserved population in San Mateo.  The Dr. 
Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center and Pool is a critical resource to this community for services and 
programming.  The continued deterioration of both the Center and the King Pool threatens its ongoing viability.  Its 
closure would put hundreds of children and young adults at risk of being denied a critical life skill – learning to swim. 
Built in 1969, the Center has not had any significant renovations or upgrades since then.  In addition to being out of 
compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, there currently are several issues that threaten the City’s ability 
to continue to operate both the center and the pool. 
 
These issues include cracking and lifting of the pool deck, damage to the pool shell, an out-of-code single circulation 
system for two bodies of water, and a water turnover rate 50% lower than current standards.  Should the capital 
investment to modernize the pool and bring it up to code not be made, the pool is at risk of being inoperable.  This 
would have a devastating impact on the community and would create a significant life-safety issue, as each year the 
King Pool through the seasonal aquatics program offers over 900 children and young adults the opportunity to learn to 
swim. 
For all the aforementioned reasons, the San Mateo City Council supports the City of San Mateo’s CPF request for 
$1,500,000 to renovate and rehabilitate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center. 
Thank you,
Amourence Lee, Mayor
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
MAYOR
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo, CA 94403
                                                     www.cityofsanmateo.org  
(650) 522-7522 ext. 6262
118 of 247

--- page 119 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Correction on page 3 to clerical error made on March 7, 2023. 
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  11
Section Name: OLD BUSINESS
Account Number: 25-3112
File ID: 23-7185
TO:
City Council
FROM:
Drew Corbett, City Manager
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
March 06, 2023 
SUBJECT:
General Plan Update – Land Use Heights and Densities and Measure Y
RECOMMENDATION:
Provide direction on: 1) The densities and heights that should be incorporated into the General Plan Update’s Land Use 
Element; 2) How Measure Y should be incorporated into the General Plan Update; and 3) Additional land use and housing 
policy revisions that should be incorporated into the General Plan Update.
BACKGROUND:
General Plan Update
The City’s comprehensive General Plan Update (GPU) began in fall 2018 with a series of visioning workshops and 
community meetings. In 2019 and 2020, the General Plan team held a series of community meetings and events to 
establish the ten General Plan study areas, which were selected based on their proximity to transit and/or were areas in 
transition (aging shopping centers or concentrations of underutilized buildings and sites). Subsequent community outreach 
and engagement was held to create a range of land use and circulation alternatives, confirm the draft alternatives, and 
select the preferred land use and circulation scenarios. In April 2022, the preferred land use and circulation scenarios were 
selected by the City Council, with the land use scenario subsequently confirmed in July 2022. Attachment 1 includes the 
Draft Citywide General Plan Land Use Map, and Attachment 2 shows the draft land uses for the Study Areas. 
Following selection of preferred land use and circulation scenarios, the GPU’s draft goals, policies and actions were 
published in July 2022, followed by community outreach and engagement (public meetings, workshops, and pop-up 
events, as well as an online survey) and public meetings with the General Plan Subcommittee (GPS) and Planning 
Commission in the summer and early fall.  In October and November 2022, the City Council provided direction on the 
goals, policies and actions that would be incorporated into the Draft General Plan.  Overarching direction on the GPU’s 
goals, policies and actions included a focus on sustainability and resilience, planning for sufficient housing to meet current 
and future needs, supporting a multimodal transportation system, expanding parks, open space and recreational 
amenities, and enhancing community outreach and engagement. More information about the General Plan update 
process, including technical reports, community input and meeting materials and recordings, is available online at 
www.StriveSanMateo.org.
2023-2031 Housing Element
The City’s Housing Element, which is a chapter in the General Plan, is required to be updated every eight years to fulfill the 
City’s Regional Housing Needs Allocation (RHNA) and comply with State law. To meet the State’s deadline for the 6th 
Housing Cycle (2023-2031), the City’s Housing Element was prepared through a separate process, with City Council 
adoption on January 24, 2023. Throughout the development of the Housing Element and General Plan Update, there was 
close coordination between the two teams to ensure the Draft General Plan appropriately aligned with the policies and 
119 of 247

--- page 120 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Correction on page 3 to clerical error made on March 7, 2023. 
programs in the Housing Element. However, because the General Plan’s draft land use map includes heights and densities 
that exceed the City’s voter approved growth limits (Measure Y) and will require voter approval before they could go into 
effect, the Housing Element’s housing sites inventory was prepared consistent with existing General Plan 2030 land use 
designations and densities, and with Measure Y. However, since over 90% of the Housing Element’s opportunity sites are 
within a Study Area, the housing production capacity of the sites inventory will significantly increase with adoption of the 
General Plan’s updated land use map. 
DISCUSSION:
The General Plan Update is planning for a 20-year time period and should plan for sufficient growth to meet current and 
future needs (i.e. future RHNA cycles) within this two-decade horizon.  Although the scale of future housing allocations is 
unknown, the City can rely upon regional growth projections, past allocations, and other forecasting tools to estimate 
likely future allocations. If the 7th Housing Cycle RHNA is in the same proportion to the existing number of homes as the 6th 
Cycle RHNA, it could call for 8,000+ new units, which means the City could be looking at a need of around 15,000 new 
housing units over the next 16 years.  If this General Plan Update does not designate adequate residential sites to meet 
both current and future RHNAs, future Housing Element updates will need to include a process to identify and rezone 
additional sites to meet future RHNAs beyond those identified in the current Housing Element that was just adopted. This 
process would likely need to begin in or around 2029 and would essentially re-open consideration of potential land use 
changes citywide to increase the amount of land designated for residential development. By planning for sufficient housing 
capacity in the ten GPU study areas that are most suitable and appropriate for growth and change, the City will be well 
positioned to meet future housing requirements within its adopted General Plan without the need for future rezonings. 
General Plan Land Use Designations
In order to finalize the draft land use map that will be a part of the General Plan, staff is seeking Council direction on the 
heights and densities associated with the updated land use designations. The land use designations identify the locations 
throughout the city where specific types of land uses may occur. The designations are meant to be broad enough to give 
the City flexibility, but also provide clear enough direction to achieve the vision of the General Plan. Staff recommends that 
the 2040 General Plan utilize land use designations that align with the Place Types Menu designations, which was shared 
with the community throughout the GPU’s alternatives process. The Place Types are similar to the existing General Plan 
Land Use designations, but utilize a slightly different and simplified naming convention, and propose different density 
ranges. In addition, the Place Types Menu introduced three new land use categories (i.e. Residential High, Mixed-Use High, 
and Office High) that would accommodate higher density and taller residential and non-residential structures than 
currently allowed in the General Plan or under Measure Y. It should also be noted that the high end of the density range 
for Residential Medium and Mixed-Use Medium in the Place Types Menu also exceeds current General Plan and Measure Y 
limits.  For reference, the Place Types Menu is included as Attachment 3. Building off of the Place Types Menu, community 
input and earlier City Council Direction, the General Plan team has prepared an updated set of land use designations for 
the draft General Plan’s land use map. A matrix that lists the proposed land use designations and how they correlate to the 
existing General Plan Land Use designations in terms of name, description, height, and density is included as Attachment 4.
In urban infill areas like San Mateo, there is a direct relationship between the height of a building  and the amount of open 
space that can be achieved through individual projects. If there is some flexibility in how tall a building can be, a project 
site can accommodate both the project density and floor area while allowing for open spaces such as plazas, pocket parks, 
and other public open space. However, lower height limits tend to result in less open space because applicants will want 
to, or need to, maximize the available floor area of the building in order to achieve an economically feasible project. Lower 
allowed heights will often mean that the building has to spread over more of the surface of the site. City staff developed 
the building height recommendations, in part, to help achieve the community’s priority of increasing parks and open space 
opportunities in the city as infill development continues.
The land use designations in the General Plan will establish allowable heights and densities throughout the City. The table 
below shows the proposed height and density ranges for each level of land use intensity. Specifically, staff is seeking City 
Council confirmation on the height ranges for the Low, Medium, and High designations to share with the community as 
120 of 247

--- page 121 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Correction on page 3 to clerical error made on March 7, 2023. 
part of the Draft General Plan. These intensities are associated with Residential, Mixed-Use, and Office land use 
designations.
•
Very Low – This land use designation aligns with the intensity of the existing General Plan’s Single-Family 
Residential designation, and the height range is proposed at 1 to 2 stories.
•
Low I – This land use designation aligns with the intensity of the existing General Plan’s Low Density Multi-Family 
designation, and the height range is proposed at 1 to 3 stories.
•
Low II – This land use designation aligns with the intensity of the existing General Plan’s Medium Density Multi-
Family designation, and the height range is proposed at 2 to 4 stories.
•
Medium I – This land use designation aligns with the intensity of the existing General Plan’s High Density Multi-
Family designation, and the height range is proposed at 3 to 5 stories.
•
Medium II – New land use designation with a density range of 51 to 99 units per acre, and a recommended height 
range of 4 to 6 stories. This height limit would allow for transitions between low and high density areas of the City.
•
High I – New land use designation with a density range of 100 to 130 units per acre, and a recommended height 
range of 5 to 8 stories. This height limit would allow for transitions between medium and high density areas.
•
High II – New land use designation with a density range of 100 to 200 units per acre, with a recommended height 
range of 6 to 10 stories. This land use designation is limited to areas in proximity to a Caltrain station, portions of 
the El Camino Real corridor and the Bridgepointe shopping center.
Through the General Plan Update outreach process, staff has heard from the community about the importance of 
introducing transitions between different levels of land use intensities. In response to this feedback, City staff recommends 
splitting the density of the Residential and Mixed-Use Medium and High designations into two categories each as shown in 
the table below. These designations would be applied to sites or blocks that are adjacent to lower densities to allow for a 
transition between each increasing density range. The densities at the lower end of the range would create more flexibility 
for height step-backs and open space or landscaped buffers as the height increases. 
Land Use Intensity
Height Range
Density Range
Consistent with Measure Y?
Very Low
1 to 2 stories 
1 to 9 units per acre
Yes
Low I
1 to 3 stories
10 to 19 units per acre
Yes
Low II
2 to 4 stories
20 to 35 units per acre
Yes
Medium I
3 to 5 stories
36 to 50 units per acre
Yes
Medium II
4 to 6 stories
51 to 99 units per acre
No
High I
5 to 8 stories
100 to 130 units per acre
No
High II
6 to 10 stories
100 to 200 units per acre
No
The land use designations with intensities that align with Very Low, Low I, Low II and Medium I are consistent with the 
height and density limits set by Measure Y. The land use designations with intensities that align with Medium II, High I and 
High II exceed height and density limits set by Measure Y and are only proposed within the ten Study Areas. It should also 
be noted that the Zoning Districts within each land use designation can set more specific height and density limits within 
the identified ranges.
Measure Y and the General Plan Update
Measure Y is a ballot measure that was passed by voters in November 2020. It retained existing height and density limits 
on new development that were originally adopted under Measure P and has a sunset date of 2030. Overall, the Measure Y 
height limit is set at up to 55 feet (five stories) and a density limit that allows up to 50 units per acre. The height limit 
allows for exceptions in certain locations and under certain circumstances, and State Density Bonus law allows projects to 
exceed both height and density limits when certain percentages of affordable units are provided. Measure Y also 
established floor area ratio (FAR) limits, with a maximum of up to 3.0. 
121 of 247

--- page 122 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Correction on page 3 to clerical error made on March 7, 2023. 
The Draft General Plan would continue to apply the requirements set by Measure Y, until the measure sunsets or voters 
provide different direction, but in the Public Review Draft General Plan, Measure Y text would no longer be woven into 
individual land use designations. The provisions and limits specified by Measure Y would continue to be implemented 
pursuant to the following policy:
•
Voter Approved Growth Limits. As required by law, for the duration that Measure Y is in effect, any inconsistency 
between the measure and other provisions of the General Plan’s Land Use Element shall default to the provisions 
specified in Measure Y. 
General Plan Options to Address Measure Y
The General Plan covers a wide range of topics essential to San Mateo’s livability, including sustainability, climate change, 
parks and recreation, pedestrian and bicycle improvements, utilities and infrastructure, and disaster preparedness and 
recovery. The majority of the content in the General Plan is separate from, and not determined by, Measure Y. 
Measure Y has a specific focus on heights and densities for the various land use designations in the current General Plan’s 
Land Use Element. Some of the land use designations in the Preferred Land Use Scenario approved by the City Council in 
April 2022, and confirmed in July 2022, include building heights and densities that exceed the limits set by Measure Y. Any 
compentents of the General Plan Update that are inconsistent with Measure Y will require voter approval before they can 
take effect. 
In order for City Council to place a measure on the ballot for voters to consider changes to Measure Y to align it with the 
adopted General Plan, the City will need to certify the General Plan Environmental Impact Report (EIR), adopt the General 
Plan, and submit a resolution and ballot measure to the San Mateo County Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder before the 
relevant election deadline. 
To better understand how the proposed land use designations align with Measure Y, a map that shows where the height 
limits would be exceeded, and by how much, is included as Attachment 5. The designations that exceed Measure Y limits 
include Residential Medium II, High I and High II, Mixed-Use Medium II, High I and High II, and Office High. These land use 
designations are only proposed within the Study Areas and are generally located in proximity to a Caltrain station, along 
the El Camino Real corridor and in the Bridgepointe shopping center area.  To address the land use designations and 
policies in the Draft General Plan that exceed the limits set by Measure Y, staff is recommending that City Council pursue a 
ballot measure that would remove Measure Y growth limits within the ten Study Areas.  This would allow for the full 
implementation of the adopted General Plan, since the Land Use Element would already be aligned with Measure Y for the 
portions of the City outside of the Study Areas.
In terms of timing, the target is to have a final version of the General Plan and final EIR ready for City Council adoption by 
the end of 2023 or, if necessary, beginning of 2024.  This would allow for the City Council to review and adopt a resolution 
and ballot language in winter/spring of 2024 and place the measure on the ballot in November of 2024.  Since there will be 
a period between General Plan adoption and a subsequent election to consider an updated ballot measure, or if the 
updated ballot measure is not successful, the “Voter Approved Growth Limits” policy outlined above would allow for all 
portions of the General Plan that are aligned with Measure Y to take effect.  For the portions of the General Plan that 
conflict with Measure Y, this policy specifies that the General Plan will abide by all applicable provisions of the measure 
until it is updated by the voters or sunsets in 2030.
Additional General Plan Policy Direction
In addition to the discission topics listed above, staff is seeking input from Council on if there are any other housing or 
development policies or programs/actions that should be addressed in the General Plan Update.  During the Housing 
Element adoption hearing, there were comments from Council about interest in including a policy or program related to 
supporting fair wages and local labor/hiring standards. While this topic came up in relation to the Housing Element, 
policies of this nature appear best suited to go in the Land Use Element to ensure that they apply to all new development, 
and not just housing related projects.  During the GPU public meetings last fall, Council provided staff with direction to 
include policies in the General Plan that supported fair wages and local hiring.  Based on this direction, and Council’s more 
recent the input during Housing Element adoption, staff has added four draft polices and actions to the Land Use Element 
122 of 247

--- page 123 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Correction on page 3 to clerical error made on March 7, 2023. 
for public consideration when the Draft General Plan is published this spring.  These draft policies/actions read as follows:
•
(Policy) Apprenticeship Programs. Encourage employers within San Mateo, especially building and construction 
companies, to evaluate implementing apprenticeship training programs that provide on-the-job training.  
•
(Policy) Local Hiring and a Living Wage. Encourage developers and contractors to evaluate hiring local labor and 
providing living wages within the City of San Mateo.
•
(Action) First Source Hiring. Explore the feasibility of establishing a First Source Hiring Program that encourages 
developers and contractors to make best efforts to hire new employees, workers, and subcontractors that are 
based in San Mateo County.  
•
(Action) Living Wage Incentives. Maintain provisions in the Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee that offer 
fee reductions to developers who voluntarily enter into Area Standard Wage Participation Agreements with the 
City. 
If there are other policy or program revisions that the Council would like to see incorporated into the General Plan Update 
or the Housing Element, staff would like to hear that input. While the City’s Housing Element has already been adopted by 
the City Council and submitted to the State Department of Housing and Community Development (HCD) for certification, 
this input would help guide revisions, if necessary, to achieve certification.
City Council Direction
Overall, the goal of this discussion item is to receive input and direction from the Council on the following three topics:
1.
Confirm that the proposed height ranges associated with each land use designation are appropriate to include in 
the Public Review Draft General Plan.  
2.
Confirm direction on General Plan alignment with Measure Y and a future ballot initiative to update Measure Y.
3.
Provide input, if desired, on other policies or programs/actions in the General Plan Update, including the Housing 
Element, that should be evaluated for potential updates or revisions.
NEXT STEPS:
Following this study session, the General Plan Team will incorporate the input and direction received into the Draft 
General Plan. Publication of the Draft General Plan is targeted for May 2023. The Draft General Plan will then be available 
for review and input from the community, the General Plan Subcommittee, the Planning Commission, and the City Council 
in late spring through fall 2023. No decisions are final until the City Council adopts the General Plan.
BUDGET IMPACT:
There are no direct budgetary impacts to taking this action. 
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with Public Resources Code section 21065, since this is a study session and the City Council is not taking any 
formal actions related to the General Plan Update, it is not a project subject to CEQA because it can be seen with certainty 
that this activity will not cause a physical change in the environment.  Preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Report 
(DEIR) for the General Plan Update is underway, with publication of the DEIR for public review anticipated in late spring of 
2023. The DEIR will have a 45-day public comment period once it is published. A Final EIR will be prepared prior to any 
formal decisions on the updated General Plan.
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
All written comments that have been submitted on the General Plan Update are available online at 
www.strivesanmateo.org/documents/publiccomments. This link also includes all comments that have been submitted 
since the beginning of the GPU effort in September 2018. 
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met.
123 of 247

--- page 124 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Correction on page 3 to clerical error made on March 7, 2023. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Citywide Land Use Map
Att 2 – Draft Land Uses by Study Area
Att 3 – Place Types Menu
Att 4 – Land Use Designation Matrix 
Att 5 – Land Use and Measure Y Alignment Map
STAFF CONTACT
City of San Mateo 
PlaceWorks
Zachary Dahl, AICP, Deputy Director 
Joanna Jansen, AICP, LEED AP, Principal
(650) 522-7207 
generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org
124 of 247

--- page 125 ---
Draft Citywide Land Use Map

0.5 1 Miles

0.25

BURLINGAME

SS

Nee oe ee

BELMONT

SAN FRANCISCO

AY

Se SE)

)
> -—FOSTER
CITY

ad

*,

F~"") City Limits
Co Sphere of Influence
£1 % Mile Radius Around Caltrain

© Caltrain Station

—— Caltrain
faaat Historic Districts
Residential Very Low (1-3 stories, 1-9 du/ac)

Residential Low I (1-3 stories, 10-19 du/ac)
{9 Residential Low II (2-4 stories, 20-35 du/ac)

GN Residential Medium I (3-5 stories, 36-50 du/ac)

I Residential Medium II (4-6 stories, 51-99 du/ac) [ummm Mixed-Use Medium I (3-5 stories, 36-50 du/ac)

HM Residential High I (5-8 stories, 100-130 du/ac)

HE Residential High II (6-10 stories, 100-200 du/ac) IE Mixed-Use High I (5-8 stories, 100-130 du/ac)

|| Service Commercial (1-2 stories)
(Regional Commercial (1-3 stories)
HE Neighborhood Commercial (1-2 stories)
(9) Office Low (1-2 stories)

(HE Office Medium (3-5 stories)

HME Office High (4-7 stories)

Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9-35 du/ac)
(Mixed-Use Medium II (4-6 stories, 51-99 du/ac)

WM Mixed-Use High II (6-10 stories, 100-200 du/ac
WM Parks/ Open Space
{9} Public Facilities
QE Quasi-Public

| Utilities

Source: City of San Mateo, 2022; ESRI, 2022; PlaceWorks, 2023

125 of 247


--- page 126 ---
Land Use Plan in Study Areas

i
(A) fe) 0.2 0.4 0.8 Miles i
SAN FRANCISCO BAY i
!
!
1
I
Noreyjn
»o* Ve l
i
we? a,
|
a NN H
} pve ga y |
| yo ge 4
wese™ Kehoe'‘Ave l
Ve H

of

r
|

(FOSTER
\CITY

———
.
1.
*
+

SI

Vy
g

PS

~
$Y
Wee

S

Los Prog, *e
2.

PENINSULA GOLF AND'
COUNTRY CLUB
(UNINCORPORATED)

oe
ae
7") City Limits
[J Sphere of Influence HM Residential Medium II (4-6 stories, 51-99 du/ac) Mixed-Use Low (1-3 stories, 9-35 du/ac)
ona V> Mile Radius Around Caltrain HM Residential High I (5-8 stories, 100-130 du/ac) [9 Mixed-Use Medium I (3-5 stories, 36-50 du/ac)
, ; HE Residential High II (6-10 stories, 100-200 du/ac) §§) Mixed-Use Medium II (4-6 stories, 51-99 du/ac)
© caliralny Staton Service Commercial (1-2 stories) MM Mixed-Use High I (5-8 stories, 100-130 du/ac)
— Caltrain MO Regional Commercial (1-3 stories) HM Mixed-Use High II (6-10 stories, 100-200 du/ac)
Residential Very Low (1-3 stories, 1-9 du/ac) [J Neighborhood Commercial (1-2 stories) HMM Parks/ Open Space
|| Residential Low I (1-3 stories, 10-19 du/ac) — [NN Office Low (1-2 stories) (9) Public Facilities
{)) Residential Low II (2-4 stories, 20-35 du/ac) (Office Medium (3-5 stories)  Quasi-Public
(Residential Medium I (3-5 stories, 36-50 du/ac) [J Office High (4-7 stories) |) Utilities

Source: City of San Mateo; 2022, ESRI, 2022; PlaceWorks, 2023

126 of 247


--- page 127 ---
PLACE TYPE MENU
The categories below present a “menu” of land use typologies that may be considered 
for development in San Mateo. These present a range of possible “Ideas” and not all 
typologies may be considered to be appropriate for San Mateo. The photographs are 
not intended to represent recommended architectural design styles, only their general 
scale and character. 
REF
CATEGORY
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION
RESIDENTIAL
Single Family 
– 1-2 story, 
detached homes 
including “in law” 
units (also known 
as ADU’s)
– Up to 9 units per 
acre
Residential  Low  
– 1-3 story, 
attached homes 
including 
townhomes, 
duplexes, 
triplexes, and 
fourplexes
– 9 to 39 units per 
acre
Residential  
Medium  
– 4-7 story 
buildings 
including 
condominiums 
and apartments
– 40 to 99 units 
per acre
Residential High   
– 8+ story 
buildings 
including 
multi-story 
condominiums 
and apartments.
– 100 to 200 units 
per acre
1 | DRAFT ALTERNATIVES | OPEN HOUSE
127 of 247

--- page 128 ---
REF
CATEGORY
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION
MIXED USE
Mixed-Use Low  
– 1-3 story 
buildings with a 
mix of commercial, 
office, and/
or residential 
integrated within 
the same site or 
the same building.
– 9 to 39 units per 
acre
– 0.25 FAR retail
– 1.0 FAR office
Mixed-Use 
Medium  
– 4-7 story 
buildings with a 
mix of commercial, 
office, and/
or residential 
integrated within 
the same site or 
the same building.
– 40 to 99 units 
per acre
– 0.25 FAR retail
– 3.0 FAR office
Mixed-Use High  
– 8+ story 
buildings with a 
mix of commercial, 
office, and/
or residential 
integrated within 
the same site or 
the same building.
– 100 to 200 units 
per acre
– 0.25 FAR retail
– 5.0 FAR office
2 | DRAFT ALTERNATIVES | OPEN HOUSE
128 of 247

--- page 129 ---
REF
CATEGORY
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION
COMMERCIAL
Commercial 
Neighborhood  
– 1-2 story 
buildings with 
small shops, 
restaurants, 
salons, gyms, 
or shopping 
centers that serve 
the immediate 
neighborhood.
– 1.0 FAR 
Commercial 
Service  
– 1-3 story 
buildings with 
businesses such 
as automotive 
repair, pet 
hospitals, or self-
storage. 
– 1.0 FAR 
Commercial 
Regional – 3+ 
story buildings 
with large 
shopping 
centers such as 
Hillsdale Mall 
and Bridgepointe 
Shopping Center.
– 1.0 to 2.5 FAR 
3 | DRAFT ALTERNATIVES | OPEN HOUSE
129 of 247

--- page 130 ---
INDUSTRIAL
Traditional Light 
Industrial   
– 1-2 story 
buildings 
with light 
manufacturing, 
warehousing, 
and distribution 
facilities.
– 1.0 FAR 
Research and 
Development  
– 3+ story build-
ings with profes-
sional office uses 
and manufactur-
ing, laboratories, 
makers’ spaces, 
and assembly pro-
cesses to support 
the development 
of new products.
– 1.0 to 2.0 FAR 
REF
CATEGORY
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION
OFFICE
Office Low  
– 1-3 story 
buildings with 
medical or 
professional 
offices.
– 1.0 FAR 
Office Medium  
– 4-7 story 
buildings with 
medical or 
professional 
offices.
– 3.0 FAR 
Office High  
– 8+ story buildings 
with medical 
or professional 
offices.
– 5.0 FAR 
4 | DRAFT ALTERNATIVES | OPEN HOUSE
130 of 247

--- page 131 ---
5 | DRAFT ALTERNATIVES | OPEN HOUSE
REF
CATEGORY
PHOTO/ILLUSTRATION
PARKS AND OPEN SPACE
Parklet – small 
park or gathering 
space.
Community Park 
– a larger park of 
1 to several acres 
that includes 
recreational 
or community 
amenities 
Privately-Owned 
Public Open 
Space - publicly 
accessible 
but privately 
maintained plazas 
and courtyards 
integrated 
within private 
development.
Civic Gathering 
Space – a plaza, 
amphitheater, or 
town square that 
can accommodate 
community events
131 of 247

--- page 132 ---
Land Use Designation Matrix
Proposed 2040 General Plan 
Land Use Designations
Existing General Plan 
Land Use Designations
Designation
Description
Designation
Description
Residential 
Very Low
1-2 story detached single-
family homes, duplexes, 
and ADUs; Up to 9 du/ac
Single-Family Residential
1-2 story, detached 
homes including ADUs; 
Up to 9 du/ac
Residential 
Low I
1-3 story townhomes, 
duplexes, triplexes, 
fourplexes, condominiums, 
and apartments; 10 to 19 
du/ac
Low Density Multi-Family 
Residential
1-2 story, attached units 
such as duplexes and 
townhouses; 9 to 17 
du/ac
Residential 
Low II
2-4 story townhomes, 
duplexes, triplexes, and 
fourplexes, condominiums, 
and apartments; 20 to 35 
du/ac
Medium Density Multi-
Family Residential
2-4 story buildings 
including condominiums 
and apartments; 18 to 
35 du/ac
Residential 
Medium I
3-5 story multi-family 
buildings, including 
townhomes, 
condominiums, and 
apartments; 36 to 50 du/ac
High Density Multi-Family 
Residential
3-5 story buildings 
including condominiums 
and apartments; 36 to 
50 du/ac
Residential 
Medium II
4-6 story multi-family 
condominium and 
apartment buildings; 51 to 
99 du/ac
N/A
N/A
Residential 
High I
5-8 story multi-family 
condominium and 
apartment buildings; 100 to 
130 du/ac
N/A
N/A
Residential 
High II
6-10 story multi-family 
condominium and 
apartment buildings; 100 to 
200 du/ac
N/A
N/A
Mixed-Use 
Low
1-3 story buildings with a 
mix of commercial, office, 
and/or residential 
integrated within the same 
site or the same building. 
10 to 35 du/ac; 0.25 FAR 
retail/commercial and 1.5 
FAR office/residential
Mixed-Use Incentive
A mix of commercial, 
office, and housing; 1.0 
to 3.0 FAR, 25 to 55 ft.
Some areas in the 
Downtown allow up to 
75 ft
Mixed-Use 
Medium I 
Density
3-5 story buildings with a 
mix of commercial, office, 
and/or residential 
integrated within the same 
site or the same building. 
36 to 50 du/ac; 0.25 FAR 
retail/commercial and 3.0 
FAR office/residential
Mixed-Use Incentive
A mix of commercial, 
office, and housing. 1.0 
to 3.0 FAR, 25 to 55 ft.
132 of 247

--- page 133 ---
Land Use Designation Matrix
Proposed 2040 General Plan 
Land Use Designations
Existing General Plan 
Land Use Designations
Designation
Description
Designation
Description
Mixed-Use 
Medium II
4-6 story buildings with a 
mix of commercial, office, 
and/or residential 
integrated within the same 
site or the same building. 
51 to 99 du/ac; 0.25 FAR 
retail/commercial and 4.0 
FAR office/residential
Mixed-Use Incentive
A mix of commercial, 
office, and housing.  1.0 
to 3.0 FAR, 25 to 55 ft.
Some areas in the 
Downtown allow up to 
75 ft
Mixed-Use 
High I
5-8 story buildings with a 
mix of commercial, office, 
and/or residential 
integrated within the same 
site or the same building. 
100 to 130 du/ac; 0.25 FAR 
retail/commercial and 4.5 
FAR office/residential
N/A
N/A
Mixed-Use 
High II
6-10 story buildings with a 
mix of commercial, office, 
and/or residential 
integrated within the same 
site or the same building. 
100 to 200 du/ac; 0.25 FAR 
retail/commercial and 5.0 
FAR office/residential
N/A
N/A
Neighborhood 
Commercial
1-2 story buildings with 
small shops, restaurants, 
salons, gyms, or shopping 
centers that serve the 
immediate neighborhood; 
residential uses are also 
allowed; 1.0 FAR
Neighborhood 
Commercial
25 to 45 ft buildings with 
commercial uses
such as supermarkets,
bakeries, drugstores, 
restaurants, 
delicatessens, barber 
shops, hair salons, 
laundromats, hardware
stores, dry cleaners, 
small offices and other 
personal services. 0.5 to 
1.0 FAR
Service Commercial
Up to 35 ft buildings that 
include uses such as 
automobile and truck 
repair, building material 
yards and animal 
hospitals. 1.0 FAR
Service 
Commercial
1-2 story buildings with 
businesses such as 
automotive repair, pet 
hospitals, self-storage, light 
manufacturing, 
warehousing, and/or 
distribution facilities. 1.0 
FAR
Manufacturing/Industrial
25 to 90 ft buildings that 
include light 
manufacturing, 
133 of 247

--- page 134 ---
Land Use Designation Matrix
Proposed 2040 General Plan 
Land Use Designations
Existing General Plan 
Land Use Designations
Designation
Description
Designation
Description
warehousing and 
distribution facilities.
FAR 1.0
Regional 
Commercial
1-3 story buildings with 
large shopping centers that 
attract customers from 
beyond San Mateo; hotels 
self-storage facilities, office 
and residential uses are 
also allowed; 1.0 to 2.5 FAR
Regional/Community 
Commercial
25 to 55 ft tall shopping 
centers that may include
department stores, 
banks, furniture stores, 
auto dealerships, 
appliance stores, toy 
stores, hotels, self-
storage, and
offices. 1.0 to 2.5 FAR
Office Low
1-2 story buildings with 
medical or professional 
offices; research and 
development can be 
allowed, depending on 
context and other factors;  
1.0 FAR
Executive Office
35 to 55 ft office 
buildings. Accessory uses
permitted include 
restaurants, personal 
services, travel agencies, 
printing, ticket outlets, 
clubs, and recreation 
facilities.0.62 to 1.0 FAR
Office Medium
3-5 story buildings with 
medical or professional 
offices; research and 
development can allowed, 
depending on context and 
other factors; 3.0 FAR
Executive Office
35 to 55 ft office 
buildings. Accessory uses
permitted include 
restaurants, personal 
services, travel agencies, 
printing, ticket outlets, 
clubs, and recreation 
facilities.0.62 to 1.0 FAR
Office High
4-7 story buildings with 
medical, professional, or 
research and development 
offices. 5.0 FAR
N/A
N/A
Public Facility
Facilities owned and/or 
operated by the City, 
other government 
agencies, and/or the 
public school districts
Public Facilities
Facilities owned and/or 
operated by the City, other 
government agencies, 
and/or the public school
districts
Major Institution/Special 
Facility
Private and public 
institutional, 
educational, 
recreational, and 
community service uses
Quasi Public
Facilities owned and/or 
operated by quasi-public 
agencies and organizations, 
such as schools and faith-
N/A
134 of 247

--- page 135 ---
Land Use Designation Matrix
Proposed 2040 General Plan 
Land Use Designations
Existing General Plan 
Land Use Designations
Designation
Description
Designation
Description
based organization 
facilities. Examples of these 
facilities include St. 
Matthew Catholic Church 
and the Nueva School.
Parks/Open 
Space
Public parks and City-
owned conservation lands 
and private open space or 
recreation facilities
Parks/Open Space
Public parks and City-
owned conservation 
lands and private open 
space or recreation 
facilities
Utilities
Public utilities such as 
electricity, gas, water, and 
communications
Utilities
Public utilities such as 
electricity, gas, water, 
and communications
There are three existing General Plan land use designations that are covered by multiple Proposed 2040 
General Plan Land Use designations:
•
Downtown Retail Core. This designation occurs in the Downtown area and is replaced with 
multiple Proposed 2040 General Plan Land Use designations: Mixed-Use Medium II, Mixed-Use 
High II, Public Facilities, or Quasi-Public.
•
Downtown Retail Core Support – This designation occurs in the Downtown area and is replaced 
with multiple Proposed 2040 General Plan Land Use designations: Residential High II, Mixed-Use 
Medium II, Mixed-Use High I, Mixed-Use High II, or Public Facilities.
•
Transit-Oriented Development – This designation primarily occurs around the Hayward Park 
and Hillsdale Caltrain stations and is replaced with multiple Proposed 2040 General Plan Land 
Use designations: Residential Low I, Residential Medium I, Residential Medium II, Mixed-Use 
Medium I, Mixed-Use Medium II, Mixed-Use High I, Mixed-Use High II, Office Medium, Public 
Facilities, Quasi-Public, or Parks/Open Space.
In addition, the Transportation Corridor designation under the existing General Plan was retired. This 
designation applied to the transportation right-of-way and was found to be unnecessary.
135 of 247

--- page 136 ---
Measure Y- Height and Density Conflicts

%
2.

SAN FRANCISCO BAY

(A) 0 0.17 0.35 0.7 Miles

G
x%

Kehoe Ave

ove

ao”
PENINSULA:‘GOLF“AND

| [__ City Limits Maximum Allowed Height Differences
between Existing General Plan Land Use
| Sph f Infl
| C BiaiS of Sens and Draft General Plan Land Use
| —— Caltrain

Oo Range of Height Conflict (ft.) <¢
| Study A
| udy Areas WN > 30"

Maximum Allowed FAR Differences ' \

between Existing General Plan Land Use |) 20' - 30 NN

and Draft General Plan Land Use [ 10' - 20'

MM o'- 10 |

Source: City of San Mateo; 2022, ESRI, 2022; PlaceWorks, 2023

136 of 247


--- page 137 ---
THE FOLLOWING PUBLIC 
COMMENTS WERE SUBMITTED 
FOLLOWING THE PUBLICATION 
OF THE AGENDA PACKET 
137 of 247

--- page 138 ---
From: Doug D'Anna 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 5:29 AM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: KEEP Meaure Y in Place  
 
To whom it may concern: 
 
I am writing to express my strong opposition to any attempts to remove or 
modify the height limits enshrined in Measure Y.  
 
While some may argue that its height limits limit new housing, it is important 
to note that City staff confirmed that the voter-approved measure meets 
state-mandated housing needs.  
 
As a result, there is no reasonable justification for allowing taller buildings 
when the voter-approved measure meets state-mandated housing needs.   
 
REMEMBER: San Mateans have voted three times in 30 years to keep height 
limits the way they are, and it is your job to respect that vote.  
 
For these reasons, I urge you to reject any attempts to modify or remove the 
height limits in Measure Y.  
 
Sincerely,  
 
Doug D’Anna  
36-year resident  
 
 
 
138 of 247

--- page 139 ---
From: ROB GIBSON 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 11:40 AM 
To: Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: up, up and away 
 
Dear members of the San Mateo city council, 
 
It really can't get more obvious than this. In today's Daily Journal (3/3/2023) David 
Bohannon is quoted as saying, "We think for a site like Hillsdale, Measure Y is not a 
good thing, and we are engaging with the public trying to have conversations about the 
benefits of height and density." 
It is plain to all that because of his own greed he is trying to negate the will of the voters 
and dismantle measure Y. There has been plenty of  'engagement'  in regard to heights 
and density and the the people voted their wishes. Mr. Bohannon doesn't like the result. 
If he is allowed special treatment others will soon follow. 
So now the cat is out of the bag and the council will have to make their bias public. Are 
you going to stand with democracy or with developers? 
 
Rob Gibson 
 
 
139 of 247

--- page 140 ---
From: 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 8:39 AM 
To: Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: re: March 6 City Council General Plan Update 
 
To Whom It May Concern, 
I am wriƟng to support the present height limits on development in San Mateo. Our city staﬀ has met 
state requirements to idenƟfy development possibiliƟes in San Mateo that will meet state RHNA 
requirements without having to override voters’ will.  Clearly, under present rules we can build housing 
up to seven stories, as in Kiku Crossing, in San Mateo. I would urge the Council to leave height limits in 
tact unƟl we have a beter sense of the long-term eﬀects of the pandemic and changes to the local 
workforce.  
I urge the Council to maintain focus on building AFFORDABLE housing and to push developers to meet 
and surpass the present minimum of 10% of new units priced as aﬀordable. We do not need more 
housing – we need more aﬀordable housing. And why not turn empty commercial buildings into 
housing? That would be a sustainable remedy that doesn’t require large amounts of energy/materials.  
As various threads on Nextdoor indicate, many of us are unhappy with losing the charm and character of 
San Mateo. It is what makes this city an atracƟve place to live.  
Thank you, 
Dennis Keane 
 
 
 
140 of 247

--- page 141 ---
From: Mia Maddalena 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 9:14 AM 
To: Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Big buildings everywhere! 
 
I understand the need for more housing I really do. But it’s not more office space we need now that so 
many businesses have their employees working from home! What is the need for more office space? 
There are thousands of vacant buildings and plenty of room for more small businesses downtown but 
why the large tall corporate buildings?  
Corporate buildings need to be built near the airport or out where people don’t want to live, we want 
our single family homes to be near a thriving downtown area. That isn’t a megalopolis. That’s why I 
moved out of SF. I didn’t want to look out my window only to see another giant building right there. 
Stop the hi-rise building downtown. Keep it quaint and safe. I miss trags!  
 
Mia Maddalena  
 
141 of 247

--- page 142 ---
From: Thomas Morgan <t
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 9:35 AM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Item 11 GP Measure Y 
 
Dear Council 
  
I am writing to request that the Council not act on its own to repeal any portions of Measure Y. I think the 
request is coming for the proposed redevelopment of Hillsdale Mall. In my opinion, the mall owner should 
work with the community and place create a ballot measure for the properties they are looking to 
redevelop, and not seek to focus on repealing Measure Y.  
 
If something in Measure Y should need to change there should be public out reach a measure be craft 
and the voters should vote on the measure. 
I can think of two large redevelopments the Sandhill project at Vallco Mall (had a ballot measure which 
lost, probably because they did not listen to the community) and the Lucas Studios proposals in Lucas 
Valley (Marin County) both resulted in a larger affordable housing component than required. The part of 
Measure Y I appreciate most is the affordable housing component. The market left to itself would choose 
not produce any affordable housing 
Mayor Lee has said on numerous occasions that we need to extract community benefits from the 
development and business community. Without Measure Y I struggle to see how the city is in a position 
do request community benefits. I think they will be in a worse place to demand community benefit. In 
addition, I think it would negate the efforts of AB1763 which provides up to two additional stories of height 
for affordable housing. 
I quickly glanced at the staff report. I have a couple of issues.  
First, the wording mentions state and density bonuses, but the table (see below) does not include the 
impact of the impact of State and other density bonuses. If included I think Medium II and High I could 
potentially change.  
 
 
 
Second, there should be an additional map to show Measure Y with the state and density bonuses.  
The report is too narrowly focused on Measure Y itself and do not consider other policies that supersede 
Measure Y. Which do allow for more height and density, and therefore do not portray a fair or accurate 
picture. 
142 of 247

--- page 143 ---
Further there is no mention of the possibility of going to 75 feet with community benefit.  
I am including a snippy of a recent development in San Francisco. What appears to be the trend is a 
tower with a shorter building as the affordable component. My Concern is the affordable components will 
stay at 5-7 stories (this is what pencils out) and the market rate will see all the benefit of increase in 
height. Affordable housing now is around 15% of a project I see this going down to 10% and community 
benefit will completely go away and/or only be accessible to the occupants of the building. 
 
 
 
 
Thank you, 
143 of 247

--- page 144 ---
Thomas Morgan 
 
 
144 of 247

--- page 145 ---
From: Storman Norman <
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 11:02 AM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y 
 
If this reaches you another copy was sent to council@cityofsanmateo.org . For some reason it wouldn't 
send a copy to you so I sent it this way. 
 
 
 To my Representatives, 
 
     I hope you are all having a good day. I know I am because I live where I was born in San Mateo county 
where living is at its best. 
Measure Y exists due to the voting voice of the people of myself and many other San Mateo voters so I 
don't appreciate your continued effort to fewart our votes. We have voted 3 times in the last 30 years to 
keep height limits the way they are. Why? Because this is what helps to keep San Mateo a great place to 
live. I stand by the truth that as part of the General Plan, Measure Y continues to allow substantial 
office, commercial and residential development while maintaining the community character and quality 
of life we all enjoy. 
Let the will of the people prevail.  There is no true reason to remove Measure Y. That is unless you are 
one of our many politicians who (Shall we say) stand to become wealthy if these heights are raised and 
who's campaigns receive large donations from the very people who will profit from their decisions. 
Don't think we all have our heads in the sand. Look at what has already taken place in San Mateo. It 
makes me ill. 
 
 
Thank You, 
Mark Norman, 
 
 
145 of 247

--- page 146 ---
From: Judith Paton <
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 8:37 AM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y 
 
Please retain Measure Y, which most of us voted for, and which helps maintain the attractive quality of 
San Mateo. We have the space to build more affordable housing at the present height limits if we insist 
that investor/builders build it, rather than yet more office space and high-end apartments. 
Currently we are leaning towards letting developers convince us that they can’t afford to build 
affordable units. But if that talk we offer, they will figure out a way to accommodate.  
Thank you 
Judith Paton 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
146 of 247

--- page 147 ---
From: Ivana Sebastian 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 11:51 AM 
To: Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Regarding Measure Y - let's keep it! 
 
Hello, 
  
I’d like to have our comments entered into City Council meeting notes.   
  
This is to state the feeling of thousands of resudents, and our own, * keep Measure Y.  
Regarding new housing, City staff has reached and exceeded housing goals all the while Measure Y 
existed. 
Evidence that we don’t need to plan for more housing, in the next 7 years, is seen throughout our 
city:  buildings meant for commercial purposes sit vacant, the existing new housing has large vacancies, 
let’s take a look at this again in a few year, to see what it looks like before proposing housing plans that 
affect all. 
  
As it stands with Measure Y, it continues to allow plenty of office, commercial and housing development 
while keeping the community characteristics, and quality of life peaceful and something we can enjoy 
with our families.  I strongly urge that the voices of the residents be heard, there is NO true reason to 
remove Measure Y.   
Keep Measure Y 
Kind Regards, 
Ivana E Sebastian 
Javier Sebastian 
Sara Sebastian  
 
147 of 247

--- page 148 ---
From: Connie Weiss <
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 9:53 AM 
To: Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom <rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam 
Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Richard Hedges <rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: March 6, 2023, Agenda Item 11: Measure Y 
 
Hello City Council, 
 
Measure Y has been under attack since it’s passing, and for Agenda Item 11 for the March 6, 
2023, meeting, it only seems fair to start with a clean slate and have a balanced discussion 
around how Measure Y does not impede what is needed for San Mateo in future housing plans, 
specifically: 
 
HOUSING ELEMENT 2023: City staff have reached/exceeded their housing goals with Measure 
Y intact. 
  
HOUSING ELEMENT 2030: Covid has changed our landscape completely. Commercial 
buildings sit empty.  We have new housing that sits empty. Let’s reexamine this later. 
  
COMPROMISE TO ADD HEIGHTS (MAYBE 8 TO 12 STORY BUILDINGS): Pick up any paper 
and read articles about new housing, even in San Francisco, being 5 to 7 stories. Council is 
aware that 5 story buildings here in San Mateo have an easy option for developers to make 
them 7 stories overnight, like Kiku Crossing.  
  
WE NEED MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING: Measure Y required at least 10% affordable 
housing before it was the thing to do. Council has recently made increases, but if there is ever 
an attempt to reduce the percentage, Y controls mean San Mateo could not go below 10% for 
affordability. And it has become evident we will never just build our way to affordability in this 
region. 
  
Why are we really talking about Measure Y?  
 
Let’s talk about Bohannon developers and Hillsdale Mall. Just after Measure Y passed, 
Bohannon attended a meeting hosted by the HLC (Housing Leadership Council), along with 
(then) Councilmember Lee, San Francisco Senator Scott Wiener, and (then) councilmembers 
Bonilla and Goethals. It was a coalition of those working against Measure Y to figure out a way 
around the voters’ decision.  
 
Some Important quotes below (and pay particular attention to what Bonilla said): 
  
Bohannon said, “We must continue the great work that brought us to the cusp of victory 
defeating Measure Y." 
  
148 of 247

--- page 149 ---
To which (then) Councilmember Lee said, “We will measure ourselves by the moments of joy 
and connection to our coalition...that is what is going to take us forward…I'm in this with you - 
the fight is not over." 
  
(then) Councilmember Bonilla applauded the coalition’s accomplishments and said, “That 
doesn't mean we don't have more to do…thanks for helping Amo get elected...That is going to 
help a LOT…We need now to turn our attention to organizing for the General Plan....So, we 
need to turn out activists and commenters - people need to speak at meetings and write 
letters..." 
  
Senator Wiener said, "We are making progress...We honestly need more action at the state 
level. These kinds of things [local controls like Measure Y] shouldn't exist." 
  
Then Wiener inserted himself into OUR city doings, creating a bill to specifically allow our 
Council to set aside the likes of Measure Y with a 4/5 vote.  We find this route around 
democracy to be despicable. 
  
Mayor Lee, your immersion in the fight against Measure Y, including your work for the counter 
measure, Measure R, coupled with your comment, “I’m in this with you, the fight is not over” at 
this HLC meeting should fully keep you from discussing or voting on anything that has to do with 
Measure Y.  The right and honorable thing to do is recuse yourself. 
   
The truth is that as part of the General Plan, Measure Y continues to allow substantial office, 
commercial and residential development while maintaining the community character and quality 
of life we all enjoy. Let the will of the people prevail.  There is no true reason to remove Measure 
Y.  
 
Thank you,  
 
Connie Weiss  
San Mateo Resident 
 
 
149 of 247

--- page 150 ---
From: Nancy Weller <
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 10:40 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Support Measure Y 
 
As I drive around my beloved San Mateo, I see high density building sprouting up throughout the city, 
yet there are “for lease” and “for rent” signs everywhere, including in newly constructed, completed 
buildings.  Covid-19 has changed the landscape of urban communities, and wise city planners and 
officials need to readjust future forecasting.  Measure Y has been supported through 3 election cycles—
residents have spoken they want to avoid the tall building big city density look, the wind tunnels created 
by such structures, the parking, infrastructure and traffic problems exacerated by a characterless “urban 
jungle.”  And, unoccupied buildings create hollow, blighted urban landscapes.   
 
Measure Y addresses San Mateans desire to NOT look like Redwood City,  Millbrae, the San Carlos 
corridor.  Measure Y insures at least 10% affordable housing in future developments.  We have met 
housing goals with Measure Y still intact.  There is no need to override the will of the people at this 
time.  Seven years from now, the needs of San Mateo will be reexamined.  There has been an 
unpredicted earthquake of change in the past 3 years.  Seven years from now, there may well have been 
another— Measure Y insures San Mateo will maintain the type of community atmosphere its citizens 
have repeatedly supported. 
 
I am counting on the City Council to support Measure Y and its height limits. 
 
Sincerely, 
Nancy Weller 
 
 
150 of 247

--- page 151 ---
From: Bill Williams 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 11:40 AM 
To: Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Hillsdale Mall Height and Density 
 
Does the city of San Mateo belong to residents or to Bohannon? Construction on any scale is a 
disruption to the surrounding community. The tall structures desired by Bohannon may take the 
entire seven year housing cycle to complete. I see many vacant rental properties in San Mateo. Do 
we really need more vacant buildings in San Mateo when our energy, water, and transportation 
infrastructures are already inadequate? The population of California is declining along with the 
birth rate. Don't sell out our city. 
x Billl Williams, San Mateo 
 
151 of 247

--- page 152 ---
From: Stephen & Susan Bell 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 3:18 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Keep Measure Y 
 
Height limits in San Mateo are the will of the people, as ascertained by the passage of Measure Y.  
Humongous office spaces are dominating our downtown area, but offices are becoming things of the 
past, as most workers are currently working from home — this has become the new work model, and 
these buildings will stand empty for years to come. 
Do not turn San Mateo into Manhattan West.  Respect Measure Y! 
— Susan and Stephen Bell 
 
 
152 of 247

--- page 153 ---
From: Michelle Byron 
  
Sent: Thursday, March 2, 2023 6:43 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Maintain Measure Y 
 
 
Measure Y’s reasonable height limits have resulted in reaching and even exceeding city 
housing goals. Please respect the voters, and do not infringe upon Measure Y. 
Thank you, 
Michelle Byron 
District 5 
 
153 of 247

--- page 154 ---
From: Devra Harris 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 1:29 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 3/6/23 Mtg.  
 
Dear Councilmembers, 
 
I’ve heard a lot of talk from fellow San Mateo residents that some of you on the Council plan on 
undermining Measure Y, by setting it aside in regards to the General Plan.   
We all had a chance at the ballot box to choose what we wanted for the future of San Mateo AND voters 
approved Measure Y.  
For shame, that you’d even consider using your Council seat to favor your own agenda! Just WHO are 
you representing??? 
I hope what I’ve heard are falsehoods, if not,  it would be despicable if you don’t protect Measure Y!!! 
Honor the outcome of the ballot box and protect Measure Y!!! 
 
Regards, 
Devra Harris  
San Mateo resident  
 
Cc: Patrice Olds 
 
 
154 of 247

--- page 155 ---
From: 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 2:27 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan 
 
Mayor and Councilmembers: 
In your consideration of the proposed height and density ranges for the Public Review Draft General 
Plan I have the following questions and comments: 
1. The staff report does not explicitly say the future RHNA numbers cannot be met with Measure Y 
in place. Can the predicted RHNA numbers (15K) be met with Measure Y? 
2. The data suggests that remote work is here to stay; Forbes says experts predict that by 2025 
there will be a 417% increase in remote work; how will that affect housing and office needs. Will 
RHNA numbers decrease? The taller and denser residential buildings typically comprise a 
majority of studio and 1-bdrm units for tech workers. Is this the housing we are encouraging? 
3. There is no map showing Measure Y heights with density bonuses heights or other maps that 
show where state law overrides Measure Y. The existing building heights/densities allowable are 
not reflected in the staff report. 
4. Measure Y allows some areas to build 7 stories with a substantial public benefit; will the 
substantial public benefit be removed when allowing increased heights? 
5. Measure Y was voted upon and passed by your constituents, the most democratic process. Days 
after Measure Y was certified certain members of the council vowed to dismantle it. This is not 
representing your constituents nor is approving any proposed measure intended to supersede 
what voters intended to be in place for 10 years. 
6. If the Council votes to approve the proposed heights and densities along with a future ballot 
measure to void Measure Y there should be reasonable 3D graphics of the possible new 
construction superimposed in each neighborhood so that residents can really see what is being 
proposed. Along with graphics, story poles should be installed in each area so residents can 
envision how tall 6-12 stories building are in the places they are proposed.  
Thank you, 
Lisa M. Maley 
 
155 of 247

--- page 156 ---
From: Jill McHale

Sent: Thursday, March 2, 2023 6:21 PM

To: Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Measure Y: We Voted on this Already

| am a home owner. And | support Measure Y. And | already voted to express my support.
Why are developers ignoring our vote? And why is City Council entertaining them?

| do not want to compromise on building heights. | do not want dark corridors caused by 5-,7-, 8-
, and 12-story high rises. And this is where the developers are going.

Measure Y also protects affordable housing with at least 10% included. So no, we don't need
more.

San Mateo is not San Francisco. Leave the high rises there, not here in the suburbs. Stay
strong and do not give in to developers. Protect our town.

Measure Y allows a ton of office, commercial and residential development while maintaining the
community character and quality of life we all enjoy here in San Mateo.

Jill McHale

156 of 247


--- page 157 ---
From: Ellen Miller <
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 3:02 PM 
To: Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y  
 
Dear Council Members: 
 
I have lived in San Mateo for 16 years. I live in the Central neighborhood, located near our great 
downtown. In recent years, it has been exciting to see things in our City improve and for more 
businesses to choose here to grow and thrive. On the other hand, some of the more recent 
development has become out of hand and the new buildings are too tall and cold in appearance. We’ve 
already lost one grocery store and many other local businesses. The number of new developments in 
our neighborhood is excessive. 
 
Several years ago I signed a petition to limit building heights. This is the only petition I took the time to 
sign because I do not think very tall buildings add value to our neighborhood. It thrilled me when many 
of our residents supported heigh limits. Today I look at a building near my home which exceeds these 
limits, with no concern for the wishes of the voters.  
 
Please think of what is best for the residents of the City and do whatever you can to protect our height 
limits.  
 
Best,  
 
Ellen Miller  
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
157 of 247

--- page 158 ---
From: Lynda Paffrath 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 1:22 PM 
To: Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Keep Measure Y 
 
City council members are legally elected by the people who serve in their district and represent them in 
important measures such as Measure Y. Somehow, overturning election results seems to be the new 
normal in San Mateo, and I think this current thinking that it’s fine not to act in the interests of your 
community is despicable. As a voter, I think we have made it clear that we want to keep height limits the 
way they are. 
 
Lynda Twyman Paffrath 
 
 
158 of 247

--- page 159 ---
From: John Penny 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 3:25 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y  
 
As a 35+ year tax paying resident of San Mateo I support what San Mateo residents approved for the amount 
of time they approved it.  Please leave Measure Y alone. 
 
159 of 247

--- page 160 ---
From: Dorothy Radyk

Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 1:42 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: Support Measure Y

San Mateo continues to be a fine city and deserves responsible government. The votes by the people in
a democracy must be honored. Continue to support Measure Y or resign.

Dorothy Radyk

Sent from my iPhone

160 of 247


--- page 161 ---
From: John Radyk <
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 1:57 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Support Measure Y 
 
Measure Y was approved by the people of San Mateo. Support Measure Y. 
 
John Radyk 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
161 of 247

--- page 162 ---
From: Nancy Schneider 
  
Sent: Thursday, March 2, 2023 4:51 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Agenda Item 11 - General Plan Update -Land Use Heights and Densities and Measure Y 
 
Dear Mayor Lee and Members of the San Mateo City Council: 
  
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 1, a member of the San Mateo Climate Action 
Team, and a housing advocate to address the matters under consideration at the Special Study 
Session on March 6th. With respect to heights and densities in the General Plan Update, here 
are some key relevant ideas: 
 
• High Density development near public transit reduces the need for auto ownership 
and trips. It decreases noise and pollution brought by automobile traffic and lowers 
overall distances traveled, critically reducing carbon emissions which contribute to 
global climate change. 
 
• High density transit-oriented development provides urgently needed housing to tamp 
down increasing home prices and rents and provides opportunities to groups that have 
been historically deprived of the opportunity to build intergenerational wealth. 
 
In recognition of the above, I believe the City Council should: 
1.     Increase height limits for residential building to 12 stories in the downtown core of 
San Mateo and within a half mile of Cal-Train stations. 
2.     Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino 
corridor. 
3.     Increase the allowable densities in both areas to at least 75 units/acre. 
 
The City has also requested input on Measure Y.  This measure, which stands in the way of the 
above recommendations, should be overturned at the earliest possible date. Furthermore, 
Measure Y’s height limits impose unavoidable roadblocks to meeting our RHNA and 
Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing obligations, thereby exposing our city to state sanctions 
including onerous fines and loss of its control over land use. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to participate in this discussion. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Nancy Schneider 
  
 
--  
162 of 247

--- page 163 ---
Nancy Schneider 
 
 
163 of 247

--- page 164 ---
From: Lisa Taner <
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 2:53 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y Discussions Monday Evening 
 
Dear City Councilmembers, 
 
With the public given a minute or two at the microphone against special interests and developers, 
Measure Y and its parent measures was the way to allow San Mateo residents to voice what they've 
wanted here for 30 years. 
 
With the most recent Yes on Y vote barely cooling off, it is being brought up Monday though it didn't 
inhibit us from meeting our RHNA housing needs.  Even those vocalizing that Y seemed a split vote can 
not deny that $1.5 million of developer money made a huge contribution to that.  The People have 
spoken. Y should remain, as it has been and currently is, woven into the General Plan. However, in 
introducing a new General Plan, one where the previous council maximized development options, it 
seems to force the hand to ask voters yet again to vote on Measure Y protections.  We can all expect 
millions more will be spent by special interests to promote their cause.  One might say that happily, YOU 
do not represent the special interests.  You represent the voting residents.  Correct? 
 
Over and above this, it's with a keen memory that Councilmember Lee worked closely with the Hillsdale 
mall developer and lobbied hard for Measure R, the measure to defeat Measure Y.  It was voted down 
handily, even after Lee rallied, but failed, to have Claire Mack attach her name to it. Councilmember Lee, 
just after Measure Y's victory was announced, you met with Bohannon who said, "We must continue the 
great work that brought us to the cusp of victory defeating Measure Y."  Your response? "I'm in this with 
you. The fight is not over."  I presume that you intend to recuse yourself from any discussions and 
decisions having to do with Measure Y?  If not, the residents will surely want to understand why, since it 
is the right and honorable thing to do. 
 
The voters have spoken.  You represent them.  Uphold Measure Y. 
 
Thank you, 
 
Lisa Taner 
San Mateo Resident  
 
164 of 247

--- page 165 ---
From: Ellen Wang

Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 2:06 PM

To: council@citofanmateo.org; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Be Wise Keep Measure Y

Be Wise Keep Measure Y

March 3, 2023

San Mateo City Council Members

council@cityofsanmateo.org
Patrice Olds, City Clerk

Polds@cityofsanmateo.org

Measure Y does not need a modification or be overridden in order to reach San
Mateo’s 6" cycle (2023-2031) RHNA number. Of course you know that Measure Y
includes affordable housing.

City staff, paid professionals, residents and property owners working separately and
together identified potential sites to build over 9900 housing units within the density
and height limits of Measure Y. This is well over the required 7015 housing units
required by RHNA.

Measure Y, passed in 2020, will be effective until 2030. Prior to that time, we will
know for certain if San Mateo is reaching its 6"® cycle RHNA requirement. Meanwhile
we seem to be building everywhere. There is always a crane in sight, a fence going
up with attached construction sign and the sounds of earth movers and hammers.

California is no longer the new frontier. The population has decreased for the first
time. It is too early to estimate or predict if this reduction is a slow outflow or the
start of a mass exodus. Let’s not overbuild.

Be Wise Keep Measure Y

Ellen and Jeffrey Wang

165 of 247


--- page 166 ---
From: Kristen Watts-Penny 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 3:31 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y 
 
I believe in democracy, which is to say that I support what San Mateo residents voted for - Measure Y.  The 
voice of the people should be stronger than the purse strings of the developers.  I hope the Council will have 
the integrity to follow the wishes of its constituents and not the wishes of the highest bidder. 
 
166 of 247

--- page 167 ---
From: San Mateans for Responsive Government SMRG <
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 3:37 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: SMRG Comments for 3/6/23 Study Session/Measure Y 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
Measure Y, the resident’s initiative for height and density limits, was passed by voters in 
2020 and is now part of the City’s General Plan; it is not a separate document. The 
Draft General Plan must continue to weave the language of Measure Y in individual 
land use designations so that the public can easily compare any proposed changes.  
For the third time in 30 years, the voters of San Mateo made it clear what kind of 
community they want to live in and what shape its future should take. Over and over 
again, San Mateo voters have “determined that high-rise developments threatened the 
viability of the valued suburban character of the community, do not have the support of 
San Mateo residents, would irrevocably change the character of San Mateo for the 
worse,” and “cause serious adverse impacts to its citizens and reduced quality of life.” 
Voters also recognized that future growth will occur. But they don’t believe it is 
necessary - nor are they willing - to sacrifice their homes, neighborhoods, quality of life, 
or character of their historic downtown in the process. As our elected representatives, 
democracy demands that the voter’s Measure Y initiative be at the core of the General 
Plan update. 
Yet, somehow the views and desires of the people of San Mateo have been distorted. 
They have been painted, not as an affirmation of a positive community vision, but as an 
obstacle that needed to be extinguished. The Draft General Plan proposed land uses 
push extreme densification and maximum building heights in every study area beyond 
Measure Y limits. Even so, the listed heights and densities do not identify the added 
heights and densities allowed by the State override of local land use control. This is 
misleading; the true maximum heights and densities must be identified in the Draft 
General Plan land use designations. 
There has been no compromise in this Draft General Plan 2040 beyond acknowledging 
that Measure Y limits are the law until 2030. There is no acknowledgment of the 
community’s vision, only the advancement of a special interest build-more agenda. The 
notion that a win-win solution exists and that San Mateo residents would be receptive to 
moderate changes to Measure Y is being ignored. That is certainly no way to approach 
the vote required to change height and density limits prior to 2030. 
Beyond 2030 there is no way to rely on current assumptions of future state housing 
requirements (RHNA) given the rise in remote work and the massive over-building of 
office space. After Measure Y expires in 2030, the City can revisit and amend the land 
use regulations given the then current economic and environmental realities. 
167 of 247

--- page 168 ---
San Mateans for Responsive Government (SMRG), the proponents of Measure Y, urge 
the Council to set up a workshop, similar to those being organized by Reimagine 
Hillsdale, where residents can see large-scale color maps of the proposed land uses 
and conflicts with Measure Y, with staff available to answer questions. This Study 
Session is not the way to responsibly get direction from your constituents given the 
short amount of time that the agenda packet has been available and the difficulty of 
reading the complicated maps on-line. Too much time and effort has been expended on 
the General Plan update to rush approvals without more public understanding of the 
proposals, when there is no deadline for change required until 2030. 
Specifically, we request 
1) continue to weave the language of Measure Y in individual land use designations so 
that the public can easily compare any proposed changes.  
2) add the true maximum heights and densities with state bonuses to the Draft General 
Plan land use designations. 
3) continue the Study Session until staff conducts a workshop where residents can see 
large-scale color maps of the proposed land uses and conflicts with Measure Y, and 
staff is available to answer questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
Michael Weinhauer 
San Mateans for Responsive Government 
 
168 of 247

--- page 169 ---
From: Sunny Zhang <
  
Sent: Thursday, March 2, 2023 10:36 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: [3/6 Special Study Session] High Density Development 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
  
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 2 and a member of the San Mateo Climate 
Action Team to address the matters under consideration at the Special Study Session on March 
6th. With respect to heights and densities in the General Plan Update, here are some key 
relevant ideas: 
 
• HIgh Density development near public transit decreases noise and pollution brought by 
automobile traffic and lowers overall distances traveled, critically reducing carbon 
emissions which contribute to global climate change. 
 
• High density transit-oriented development provides urgently needed housing to tamp 
down increasing home prices and rents and provides opportunities to groups that have 
been historically deprived of the opportunity to build intergenerational wealth. 
 
In recognition of the above, the City Council should: 
1. Increase height limits for residential building to 12 stories in the downtown core of San 
Mateo and within a half mile of Cal-Train stations 
2. Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino 
corridor. 
 
The City has also requested input on Measure Y.  This measure, which stands in the way of the 
above recommendations, should be overturned at the earliest possible date. Furthermore, 
Measure Y’s height limits impose unavoidable roadblocks to meeting our RHNA obligations, 
thereby exposing our city to state sanctions including onerous fines and loss of its control over 
land use. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to participate in this discussion. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sunny Zhang 
San Mateo Resident 
 
169 of 247

--- page 170 ---
From: Teri Whitehair 
  
Sent: Thursday, March 2, 2023 1:27 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Addressing matters under consideration at Special Study Session 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
  
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 1 and a member of the San Mateo Climate 
Action Team to address the matters under consideration at the Special Study Session on March 
6th. With respect to heights and densities in the General Plan Update, here are some key 
relevant ideas: 
 
• HIgh Density development near public transit decreases noise and pollution brought by 
automobile traffic and lowers overall distances traveled, critically reducing carbon 
emissions which contribute to global climate change. 
 
• High density transit-oriented development provides urgently needed housing to tamp 
down increasing home prices and rents and provides opportunities to groups that have 
been historically deprived of the opportunity to build intergenerational wealth. 
 
In recognition of the above, I would recommend that the City Council: 
1. Increase height limits for residential building to 12 stories in the downtown core of San 
Mateo and within a half mile of Cal-Train stations 
2. Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino 
corridor. 
 
The City has also requested input on Measure Y.  This measure, which stands in the way of the 
above recommendations, must be overturned as soon as possible. Furthermore, Measure Y’s 
height limits impose unavoidable roadblocks to meeting our RHNA obligations, thereby 
exposing our city to state sanctions including onerous fines and loss of its control over land use. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to address these matters with you. 
 
Sincerely, 
Teri Whitehair 
 
 
 
170 of 247

--- page 171 ---
From: b bta 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 5:52 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Uphold Measure Y  
 
Dear Council Members: 
 
The residents in San Mateo have voted to approve Measure Y.  I am requesting the Council 
members to respect the wishes of their constituents.  San Mateo is not San Francisco and 
should not have high rise buildings.  This is not the vision nor the wishes of our community. 
 
Thank you for your vote.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
barbara 
 
 
 
 
171 of 247

--- page 172 ---
From: Joe Daly 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 5:06 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Support for Measure Y 
 
Dear City Council: 
 
We are writing to you to express our concern that efforts by other entities are trying to undermine the 
integrity of 
Measure Y, which we have supported throughout its many appearances on our voting ballot. 
 
We support measured growth within the parameters voted on inherent in Measure Y. Construction 
can occur that addresses this goal as well as the need for 10% affordable housing. 
I do not want to see San Mateo turning into a suburban hellscape of towering concrete buildings 
dwarfing the charm of our town. 
 
Democracy asks that citizens get involved and participate in governance. It also 
EXPECTS that the will of the people will be followed who VOTE in a Democracy. 
 
Three times the voters have spoken. It time to LISTEN. 
 
Respectfully, 
 
Joe and Diane Daly 
 
 
 
 
172 of 247

--- page 173 ---
From: Ronnie Eaton <
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 5:12 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan and Measure Y 
 
To the San Mateo City Council: 
 
It is our right as citizens of this country and of this city, to democratically decide issues 
of concern to our community.  In 2020, voters passed Measure Y to provide for planned 
growth without excessive overdevelopment by eager developers who are not interested 
in affordable housing. 
 
Measure Y works because it allows for substantial office, commercial and residential 
development while providing for the quality of life we all enjoy and contributes to 
residential development that is not out of pace with infrastructure development.  It also 
requires a minimum percentage of affordable housing units be built, a minimum that the 
council has the ability to increase. 
 
It is apparent from the completion of our Housing Element Plan that healthy and well-
planned growth can be obtained under Measure Y as city staff have reached/exceeded 
their housing goals with Measure Y intact.  It is unclear how state law will change in the 
coming years due to concerns for limited resources, lack of infrastructure investment 
and a changing workplace environment and that will be a future conversation for all of 
us to work on together 
 
We have to expect that the people put into place by the voters of this community will 
serve their constituents first and not try to undo what those constituents have voted 
for.  San Mateo is not an urban center and should not be treated as such. Measure Y is 
a sensible answer to unreasonable development that is at the expense of those who 
cannot afford market rate prices.   
 
Ronnie and Bruce Eaton 
San Mateo 
 
 
173 of 247

--- page 174 ---
From: Michelle Hudson 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 2:09 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; 
General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments on General Plan 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
  
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 1 and a member of the San Mateo Climate 
Action Team to address the matters under consideration at the Special Study Session on March 
6th. With respect to heights and densities in the General Plan Update, here are some key 
relevant ideas: 
 
• 
High Density development near public transit decreases noise and pollution 
brought by automobile traffic and lowers overall distances traveled, critically 
reducing carbon emissions which contribute to global climate change. 
 
• 
High density transit-oriented development provides urgently needed housing to 
tamp down increasing home prices and rents and provides opportunities to 
groups that have been historically deprived of the opportunity to build 
intergenerational wealth. 
 
In recognition of the above, the City Council should: 
1. Increase height limits for residential building to 12 stories in the downtown core of 
San Mateo and within a half mile of Cal-Train stations 
2. Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino 
corridor. 
 
The City has also requested input on Measure Y.  This measure, which stands in the way of the 
above recommendations, should be overturned at the earliest possible date. Furthermore, 
Measure Y’s height limits impose unavoidable roadblocks to meeting our RHNA obligations, 
thereby exposing our city to state sanctions including onerous fines and loss of its control over 
land use. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to participate in this discussion. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Michelle Hudson 
 
 
174 of 247

--- page 175 ---
From: Peter Mandle 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 8:24 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Review of Measure Y 
 
To:  City Council Members  
 
This is to request that you allow Measure Y to remain unchanged. Measure Y was supported by the 
majority of those who voted. If it is to be changed, it should be changed by the City's voters, not through 
a well-funded effort by developers and their agents, many of whom do not live or work in our City. 
 
Measure Y allows sufficient housing to be developed in the City while achieving other community 
goals.  With Measure Y housing can and will be located in sites providing excellent access to transit. 
Voiding Measure Y and allowing higher buildings will change the character of our City.  
 
It is disheartening to see the opponents of Measure Y once again try to circumvent the democratic 
process.  
 
Two years ago the opponents were able to unfairly introduce Measure R with the aid of the then City 
Council members. The opponents spent millions opposing Measure Y, using TV advertisements, 
numerous slick mailings, and other media to publish their views. With the aid of high-paid consultants, 
they published lies about Measure Y, including implying that Measure R provided housing for First 
Responders, unlike Measure Y which was patently false. The efforts of the opponents were largely 
funded by developers and non-residents (e.g., the Zuckerbergs).  In comparison Measure Y was truly a 
grassroots effort, with supporters, who were local residents, walking door-to-door to hand out single 
page flyers and speak to their neighbors.  It was a David versus Goliath effort, and despite the odds 
David and the local residents won.  
 
I sincerely hope you do not overrule the residents who voted for Measure Y and side with the well-
funded developers and their slick agents and lobbyists.  
 
Thank you for considering these comments. 
 
Sincerely, 
Peter Mandle  
 
175 of 247

--- page 176 ---
From: Justin Alley 
  
Sent: Saturday, March 4, 2023 10:58 AM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org>; Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine 
<aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom 
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee <alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Richard Hedges 
<rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Addressing San Mateo's Height and Density Restrictions within the General Plan Update 
 
Dear Mayor Lee and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
  
We are grateful to have this opportunity within the context of the General Plan Update 
to provide input on the vital matter of San Mateo’s height and density restrictions. 
  
First, we would like to assert a basic principle: the city of San Mateo has both a moral 
and legal imperative to produce enough housing for all its citizens and at levels of 
affordability that a diverse range can attain. The failure to produce a sufficient range of 
housing has spurred on the dramatic rises in both home prices and rents we have all 
borne witness to. The result has been an attendant rise in the number of people who are 
housing-cost burdened, trapped on the brink of poverty, and, tragically, too often 
pushed into a precarious underhoused status. 
  
Yet San Mateo’s rigid and overly broad height and density restrictions stand staunchly at 
odds with the city’s ability to appropriately respond to the ever mounting housing crisis. 
It should also be noted that San Mateo’s height and density restrictions represent the 
modern-day extension of the explicitly racial lockout that accompanied the creation of 
most of San Mateo’s R-1 neighborhoods and which leads right to the doorstep of our 
present crisis. The situation has been a long time in the making, and it calls out for 
decisive course correction on behalf of policymakers. 
  
Given the above state of affairs, we would urge the city to pursue thoughtful and 
inclusive changes to the General Plan in order to allow for a more flexible range of 
heights and densities. In our view, the following specific changes are more than 
warranted: 
  
•         Increase height limits to 12 stories in the downtown core of San Mateo 
•         Increase height limits to 12 stories within a half mile of Caltrain 
stations 
•         Increase height limits to 8 stories along the El Camino corridor 
  
These recommendations are in line with a great deal of thinking on how to achieve more 
equitable and sustainable cities. Such changes are of critical necessity if the city is to 
make a good faith effort at achieving its state-mandated RHNA requirements and avoid 
losing local control over housing decisions. But higher density transit-oriented 
development, besides helping the city meet its housing needs, yields other positives, 
such as environmental preservation, healthier lifestyles, and enlivened neighborhoods. 
The city’s own polling shows broad support for higher density TOD.   
  
176 of 247

--- page 177 ---
We recognize that in order to make the changes necessary to meet the imperative of the 
day, the city must contend with the straight jacket imposed upon it by Measure Y. To put 
it plainly, Measure Y is of a bygone era and has directly pushed us into our current 
difficulties. However, the precipitous drop in voter support for Measure Y’s policies, as 
evidenced by their exceedingly narrow re-authorization in 2020, shows that the public 
can see the writing on the wall. The city needs to forge ahead now in crafting a more 
nuanced and nimble landscape for the production of housing. 
  
The very question of whether to allow San Mateo’s onerous height and density caps to go 
unchanged for yet another decade is part and parcel with the question of what manner 
of future San Mateo will have. Will it be a diverse, economically just, and 
environmentally sound future? Or will it be something else which those of us who care 
about this city dare not allow to come to pass? 
  
Sincerely, 
 
Justin Alley 
Secretary of Communications of One San Mateo 
 
177 of 247

--- page 178 ---
From: Maxine Terner 
  
Sent: Friday, March 3, 2023 4:10 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Study Session - General Plan Update 
 
1) Schedule a follow-up workshop so that staff can present large-scale maps and answer questions from 
the public. There is no way any resident can responsibly read the staff report & review the maps on-line 
in such a short time to give you the specific direction staff is requesting. What's the hurry when no 
changes to Measure Y can occur before 2030? 
 
2) Do not rely on "guesstimates" for future RHNA requirements post-2030. Everyone knows that you 
cannot rely on estimates based on boom-cycle projections that are no longer relevant. Maintain current 
General Plan land use designations in the draft 2040 plan with the understanding that they can be 
revised after Measure Y expires, if economic conditions change significantly. 
 
3) Identify and protect key community serving land uses that residents rely on by limiting up-zoning 
where grocery stores, car repair, small businesses, child care and service providers exist. Most existing 
small businesses along El Camino Real and within the Downtown study area will be displaced by allowing 
maximum development because the cost of new construction significantly raises rents. 
 
4) Do not maintain the provisions in the Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee that takes money 
away from affordable housing if union labor is used on commercial construction projects. Do you know 
and does the public know how much money has already been diverted from affordable housing? Please 
ask staff to provide this information.  
 
 
 
 
178 of 247

--- page 179 ---
From: William Cendak 
  
Sent: Saturday, March 4, 2023 8:56 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y and R 
 
Dear Council Members, 
The good people of the city of San Mateo voted for Measure Y and against Measure R 
for good reason. 
 
Now you folks, like a bunch of grammar school kids at the playground who lost at "Ro-
sham-bo" want a "do over. 
GROW UP. 
  
As citizens of the city of San Mateo we drive north on highway 101 and pass through 
Burlingame, Millbrae and South San Francisco and observe the grotesque buildings on 
the west side of the highway and we say "not in our fair city!" 
 
When you meet with the developers, YIMBY, a State Senator and others why do you 
listen to them? 
How many live in San Mateo? Or do they live in some rich enclave that is immune to 
this situation. 
 
How many of them would welcome a 7 story monstrosity next door to them? 
 
Your job is to listen to the will of the citizens of San Mateo, not veer off track with your 
whims. 
 
Thank you for your attention in this matter, 
 
William J. Cendak 
 
 
179 of 247

--- page 180 ---
From: Gary Germano

Sent: Saturday, March 4, 2023 2:38 PM

To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>

Subject: San Mateo Height Limits

Dear San Mateo City Council,

Ever since the original Measure H five story building height limit initiative was
written and passed by the people of San Mateo, it has been subsequently voted
on and passed again each time it sunsetted .

Clearly despite all the money spent by developers to promote what they wanted
our City to look like, it is very obvious that the residents in San Mateo are pleased
with the character and style we have achieved. The residents of San Mateo do
not want to destroy the suburban character of our City.

We elected you to represent our guidelines for development. We do not want our
elected officials to circumvent what we voted for.

Do not increase the five story maximum height limits for San Mateo.
Thank you very much.
Sincerely,

Gary and Janet Germano

180 of 247


--- page 181 ---
From: Bruce Hraba

Sent: Saturday, March 4, 2023 9:24 AM

To: Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Measure Y

Whose interest do you all represent? The silent majority
doesn't have the money to sway decisions but they do
have votes. Much has changed since the start of

Covid. The housing studies that were done prior to Covid
need to be updated before any decisions, affecting the
future of San Mateo, are made.

Thank you for keeping Measure Y intact.

Patricia & Bruce Hraba

Bruce C. Hraba

181 of 247


--- page 182 ---
From: linda lara 
  
Sent: Saturday, March 4, 2023 5:04 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y 
 
Dear Honorable Mayor Lee and San Mateo City Council Members, 
 
I am writing to encourage your vote to maintain Measure Y criteria as voted for by San Mateo residents. 
 
The people have spoken, they cast their votes to maintain the measure. 
 
It seems not only are federal, nationwide elections at risk in our country, apparently our local 
community elections and wishes of the people, your constituents, are at serious risk as well. Our 
democracy at risk right here locally. 
 
Why do we have city elections by the people if local government and leadership can overturn the 
results? 
 
I personally would be more supportive of all of this massive development going on if it was truly creating 
more "affordable" housing for normal, everyday, moderate income residents. If only the mandates were 
for a much larger percent than 10% "affordable". 
 
That 10% should be increased substantially higher to truly accommodate the need for average income 
citizens.  
 
It makes no sense to attempt to house people when hundreds of units are built, like 150 to 960 for 
example and only 15 of the 150 need to be available for average income...or 96 of 960. That is ridiculous 
and will not quickly resolve our housing shortage for average income earners that deserve a home of 
their own just as much as top income earners. 
 
These are people that work hard, pay taxes, raise their kids here, support our schools, serve and 
contribute to our community, yet they can't purchase a home here. 
 
The massive ongoing, constant developments being approved are not really making a path to ownership 
for these families, nor leveling out, or dropping the insanely exorbitant, highly exaggerated property 
values in this area. Two bedroom, 1 bath fixer uppers should not sell for a million plus dollars...this is 
craziness. 
 
Overbidding on homes should be outlawed. This being allowed falsely increases property values all the 
way around. If a house is for sale it should be sold for the list price or less, not hundreds of thousands of 
dollars above the list price just because a wealthier person has those funds and can beat out another 
buyer that actually has and can afford the asking price, but does not have the ability to overbid.  
 
This practice is quickly creating false property values and the wide divide in our community, and a 
society of haves and have nots.  
 
182 of 247

--- page 183 ---
Average income earners have been able to purchase their own home for decades in this country, but 
now are prohibited because of lopsided property values, asking prices and overbidding. 
 
For over 20 years San Mateo City leadership and planning commissions have been approving multiple, 
mixed use developments always with the promise that these developments will create an abundance of 
"affordable" (whatever the heck that is) housing. 
 
We as your constituents and long time residents have not seen the abundance of that yet. Just more and 
more and more development and now you're possibly willing to turn over the will of the people to boot. 
 
It would be really nice if you continue on this path of massive developments, especially in light of the 
Hillsdale Mall plans and the 900 plus units planned at Concar and Delaware, that you honor the height 
limits approved by your constituents you represent and also impose upon your developers that they 
must provide roof top grass, yards, play areas, gardens and maybe even pools and hot tubs, because all 
this development is eating up the real estate in this town which will prevent land available for more 
parks, recreation and entertainment. 
 
The allowing of squeezing people into cramped small areas on top of each other packed in like sardines 
makes for no outdoor freedom and recreation and peace.  
 
Our city will run out of park areas and nature and things for kids and people of all ages to do. 
We're losing our bowling alleys, skate parks, theaters, there is no live music downtown, no dance places 
etc.  
 
And then we wonder why our youth bury themselves in social media, video games or drugs. 
 
There's nothing for them to do and no where to go. Our parks and recreation facilities cannot handle it 
all, nor do many residents have access, either thru transportation or cost. 
 
Developers should be required to incorporate recreation and social activities into their developments as 
well as rooftop parks. 
 
Please maintain Measure Y as voted for by the public. 
 
Thank you for your time and attention. 
Respectfully, 
Linda Slocum Lara 
62 year resident of San Mateo 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
183 of 247

--- page 184 ---
From: Francie 
  
Sent: Saturday, March 4, 2023 6:36 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Measure Y 
 
I am a resident of San Mateo. Please respect the voters’ choice in passing Measure Y and respect the 
height limits that were established. Do not be pressured by developers in overriding the voices of the 
people in order to build more high rise buildings before holding another election.  
 
Our city planners put forth a housing plan to meet the state’s requirements and did it within Measure Y 
limits.  
 
Frances Souza 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
184 of 247

--- page 185 ---
From: Megan Strain 
  
Sent: Saturday, March 4, 2023 11:34 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Clerk <clerk@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Public Comment: General Plan 
 
Dear San Mateo City Council, 
  
I’m writing as a San Mateo Resident in District 2 and a member of the San Mateo Climate 
Action Team to address the matters under consideration at the Special Study Session on March 
6th. With respect to heights and densities in the General Plan Update, here are some key 
relevant ideas: 
 
• High-density development near public transit decreases noise and pollution brought by 
automobile traffic and lowers overall distances traveled, critically reducing carbon 
emissions which contribute to global climate change. 
• High-density transit-oriented development provides urgently needed housing to better 
moderate home prices and rents and provides opportunities to groups that have been 
historically deprived of the opportunity to build intergenerational wealth.  
• As a renter in San Mateo who has a hard time considering owning a home here, I worry 
about how home prices and rents have continued to be sky-high, even after COVID. 
As a young person, I worry about human-caused climate change affecting my 
generation and others after. We must make a change to combat housing and climate 
problems. 
 
In recognition of the above, I ask that the City Council: 
1. Increase height limits for residential building to 12 stories in the downtown core of San 
Mateo and within a half mile of Cal-Train stations; and 
2. Increase height limits for residential buildings to 8 stories along the El Camino 
corridor. 
 
The City has also requested input on Measure Y. This measure, which stands in the way of the 
above recommendations, should be overturned at the earliest possible date. Furthermore, 
Measure Y’s height limits impose unavoidable roadblocks to meeting our RHNA obligations, 
thereby exposing our city to state sanctions including onerous fines and loss of its control over 
land use. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to participate in this discussion, your leadership, and your 
commitment to our community. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Megan Strain 
San Mateo resident 
 
185 of 247

--- page 186 ---
From: Janet Cook 
 
Sent: Sunday, March 5, 2023 1:34:26 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: March 6 th Council Meeting  
  
I would like to voice my views against any more additions to the height in San Mateo housing or any 
more multi building structures.  You are not considering utility usages, traffic additional pollution.  You 
are changing the small town  landscape of San Mateo.  Stop going against the will of the people.  You 
have already increased housing way over what any residents would want.  Make us more like Half Moon 
Bay and keep our identity and protect our environment. 
 
Janet Cook 
 
  
 
 
 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
186 of 247

--- page 187 ---
On Sunday, March 5, 2023 at 03:05:09 PM PST, Angie Fuqua <n! wrote:

| am writing in regards to discussion surrounding changes to Measure Y. At a neighborhood meeting with
the Bohannon team recently to discuss the Hillsdale Shopping Center redevelopment, it was stated that
some desirable design scenarios for the neighborhood edge along Edison Street would only be possible
with changing measure Y. It was stated that the proposed change to Measure Y would only be for the
Hillsdale shopping center area, not the whole City of San Mateo.

Can someone please clarify this at the upcoming meeting?

Thank you!

Angie Fuqua

187 of 247


--- page 188 ---
From: 
<
  
Sent: Sunday, March 5, 2023 2:23 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: The 3/6/2023 Council meeting, item #11 - Measure Y, General Plan update 
 
To the Council, 
 
As you address the issue of how to deal with Measure Y in the General Plan update, 
there are several things to consider and remember. The bottom line is that Measure Y 
was put in place by a majority vote of the people not that long ago. People still feel very 
strongly about it and rightly resent any suggestion that the Council will not listen to the 
adopted will of the people. I know you have already heard from many of them. As you 
all know, based on my long involvement with Measures H, P and Y, I am one of those 
many people who urge you to support the results of the democratic process. If you 
believe your election is right and true, then you have no other position to take with 
Measure Y . 
 
First, Measure Y, the resident’s initiative for height and density limits, was passed by 
voters in 2020, making its wording and provisions part of the City’s General Plan. It is 
not a separate document, as if a person would read the General Plan and then also 
check what Measure Y says. Yet the entire approach of the staff report treats it that 
way. That approach is especially inaccurate and misleading when it suggests that the 
new Draft General Plan, which is to be presented to the public after this meeting, should 
omit wording that comes from Measure Y. It suggests, "...Measure Y text would no 
longer be woven into individual land use designations." The Draft General Plan must 
continue to 'weave' the language of Measure Y into individual land use designations, 
clearly identifying it, so that the public can easily compare any proposed 
changes.  Especially since the staff report then goes on to make it clear that the 
Measure Y provisions would continue to control General Plan implementation 
until/unless Measure Y is changed by the voters or sunsets.  
 
Second, It is getting harder and harder to engage the general public in these 
decisions, although most people will care deeply about the results. For one, 
the materials - available online - are impossible to follow and understand. 
Maps, which should make things clearer, are tiny on anyone's computer 
screen - with close color variations that are impossible to follow. People just 
give up trying to understand what is being proposed. Also, people who did try 
to stay engaged through all the disappointing and mostly useless workshops 
the city held, and the online surveys, got a slap in the face in last summer's 
Council decisions about the study areas. .Although more people weighed in to 
support the lowest development alternative (C), the council, area by area, 
chose the alternatives with the most impact and highest level of development. 
More and more people now say, why bother. The Council has already made 
up their mind and nothing we say matters. I won't share some of the very 
188 of 247

--- page 189 ---
pointed reason they believe that the majority ofthe 2022 Council acted that 
way. 
 
This March 6th discussion and direction about Measure Y, and where things 
stand with the draft General Plan right now, deserves another attempt to re-
engage the public. No, not another "tick off the boxes workshop". Sitting 
around tables trading often incorrect information and hoping that individual 
input will be properly recorded is a waste of time. I suggest another approach. 
Having just attended my third Reimagine Hillsdale open house, I point you to 
the process they are using. Content notwithstanding, having large full color 
displays of the information they want to convey, allowing people to review and 
digest and react to that information at their own pace, and staffing each area 
with knowledgeable planners always offering to clarify or answer questions 
and engage with attendees, is very effective. And with each person given 
plenty of opportunity to respond in their own words to each segment, with 
plenty of opportunity for open ended input, each participant feels included. 
This is a model you should adopt before any further direction is given to staff.  
 
I strongly urge the Council to honor and uphold Measure Y. I strongly urge the 
Council to adjourn this study session and hold meaningful open houses on the 
important issues before you tonight. 
 
Karen Herrel 
San Mateo resident for 60 years  
 
189 of 247

--- page 190 ---
From: Bobbi Maniscalco

Sent: Sunday, March 5, 2023 9:36 AM

To: Paul Council <council@cityofsanmateo.org>
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: Keep Measure Y

Measure Y exists due to the voting voice of the people of San Mateo, who voted 3 times in 30
years to keep height limits the way they are. Commercial buildings sit empty. We have new
housing that sits empty. People are moving out of San Mateo.

You are supposed to support and represent what the people of San Mateo Want.Let the desire
and will of the people prevail. There is no true reason to remove Measure Y.

Please Keep Measure Y
Sincerely,

Barbara & Paul Maniscalco

190 of 247


--- page 191 ---
From: Jennifer Martinez 
  
Sent: Sunday, March 5, 2023 6:17 PM 
To: General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: General Plan comments - March 6 
 
Dear Mayor Lee and Members of the San Mateo City Council, 
I am writing to express support for increased height and density in San Mateo's General Plan.  
 
I feel very fortunate to have lived in San Mateo for the past 9 years. However, I am acutely aware that 
were it not for significant luck and the fact that my household consists of 3 full-time working adults, we 
would not be able to afford to live here.  
 
So many others who serve our community - essential workers, teachers, service providers, childcare 
providers, seniors, to name a few - either live in unaffordable (and too often, unsafe) conditions or 
travel long distances to work or visit family here. This is because the city has blocked opportunities to 
build housing that would benefit people at a range of income levels - namely, multi-family housing 
across the city.  
 
Every piece of land in our city is precious and should be used efficiently and effectively to house people 
at all income levels, create economic opportunities, and protect our environment. Current R1 zoning 
and height and density limits prevent us from doing this. Current restrictions against high-density 
housing development are a remnant of old racial and classist belief systems that should be rejected on 
moral grounds and should also be rejected on practical grounds.  
 
I strongly encourage you to pursue changes to the General Plan that will allow for greater height and 
density so that we can adequately meet the housing and environmental challenges we face and so we 
can create the kind of vibrant, inclusive, sustainable San Mateo that so many current residents want and 
that future residents need.  
 
Thank you, 
Jennifer Martinez 
 
 
 
 
191 of 247

--- page 192 ---
From: Virginia McIsaac <
  
Sent: Sunday, March 5, 2023 11:18 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Height limit w/General Plan Housing Density 
 
I would like to advocate that we keep the Measure Y height limits intact.  As stated in the 
Housing element we are able to meet the RHNA housing numbers without changing the 
voter enacted height limit.   
The height limit is generous in my opinion and keeps our city with a modest footprint of 
cement buildings.  Please do not remove the height limit.  
Best Regards  
Virginia McIsaac  
Director San Mateo Park Neighborhood Association 
 
192 of 247

--- page 193 ---
From: Edward Evans <
  
Sent: Monday, March 6, 2023 9:56 AM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Please see attached letter for public comment 
 
Dear Mayor Lee and City Council, 
Please see Nor Cal Carpenters Union Local 217 attached letter for public 
comment on tonight's (3/6/23) agenda, item #11.  Thank you. 
 
All the best, 
  
Ed Evans 
Senior Field Representative/Financial Secretary-Treasurer 
Local 217, San Mateo County 
Nor Cal Carpenters Union 
1(650)377-0217   
 
"Any time you have an opportunity to make a difference in this world and you don't, then you 
are wasting your time on earth."    Roberto Clemente  
 
  
 
193 of 247

--- page 194 ---
_ CARPENTERS UNION LOCAL 217
SAN MATEO COUNTY

1153 CHESS DRIVE * SUITE 100 * FOSTER CITY, CALIFORNIA 94404-1197 © (650) 377-0217

March 6, 2023

Re: 3/6/23 Agenda Item #11 General Plan Update, “Additional General Plan Policy Direction”.

Dear Mayor Lee and City Council,

We would like to thank the City Council and City Staff for discussing the possibility of including
tangible labor standards policy in the Draft General Plan and the Carpenters Union stands in full
support of this effort. The Carpenters are honored to play a role in helping to push this issue to
the forefront of public discussion with you, as we feel it will benefit all of San Mateo’s current
hardworking tradespeople and will also serve to grow the vital construction labor force of
tomorrow that will build San Mateo’s future for decades to come.

The two policies and two actions that you will be considering tonight will not only create more
economic stability and sustainability within our city, but will provide opportunity, sustenance,
and dignity for thousands of households throughout San Mateo. I would like to address them
one by one:

e (Policy) Apprenticeship Programs. Every thriving city needs more than just jobs — they
need pathways to family sustaining careers. While Apprenticeship programs provide that
opportunity in general, be aware that not all Apprenticeship programs are equal. It is
important to note that there are many imposters masquerading as “Apprenticeship
programs” throughout California. Spotting these imposters is easy when you look at their
statewide enrollment and even more important, their statewide graduation rates. This is
why it is imperative that it should be specified that Apprenticeship programs should be
only those who are approved by the California Department of Apprenticeship Standards.
Adding that stipulation would be key toward ensuring that San Mateo’s Apprentice
tradespeople are receiving the best training in construction and safety in the state.
Another key factor of note is that Joint-Labor/Management Apprenticeship programs like
Carpenters Training Committee for Northern California (CTCNC), and those of the other
organized trades, are privately funded and they do not cost a dime of taxpayer money.
Better still, our Apprenticeship training programs do not cost the Apprentices anything
out of pocket either. We hope that you will consider this important distinction when you
finalize the language for the Draft General Plan.

e (Policy) Local Hiring and a Living Wage. Along with utilization of state approved
Apprenticeship programs, local hiring policies and payment of a “living wage” are vital
legs in the table of economic and social sustainability. Trade Unions like ours have
always believed this. This is why Union halls are referred to as “locals” — because, it is
these Union locals that provide a trained workforce that lives in San Mateo and
throughout the surrounding county. The concept of a “living wage” can be hard for some

194 of 247


--- page 195 ---
to quantify but again, Unions like the Carpenters can be used as a barometer as
“prevailing wage”, which by legal definition is the highest published wage within a
geographic area, is always based on Union wages plus fringe benefits. While these wages
are important for things like paying rents/mortgages, buying groceries, and raising happy
families, we cannot overlook the value of the fringe benefits which are amortized within
prevailing wage because they account for employer provided retirement plans and most
importantly, health care. We feel that the establishment of a local hiring policy and
basing a “living wage” on prevailing wage will allow San Mateo’s present and future
construction trades workforce to not only live, but thrive here. We also hope that you
will consider this when you finalize the language for the Draft General Plan.

e (Action) First Source Hiring. The idea of establishing a First Source Hiring program is
both laudable and feasible — after all, Unions created it and have perfected it. Through
community outreach to the San Mateo Union High School District, the San Mateo
County Community College District “Trades Introduction Program (TIP)”, and the
county-wide, community based JobTrain program, we are regularly bringing in new
members and Apprentices. We think that if the city were to partner with the local
school/college districts and consider reaching out to community-based organizations like
JobTrain, a viable first source hiring program would be relatively easy to establish, and of
course the Carpenters would be willing to participate.

e (Action) Living Wage Incentives. We laud and support the city’s maintenance of
provisions in the Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage Fee that offer fee reductions
to developers who voluntarily enter into Area Standard Wage Participation Agreements
with the city.

On behalf of Nor Cal Carpenters Union Local 217, I thank you for your time and consideration
and we look forward to working collaboratively with you to build a more economically
sustainable future for all San Mateo families.

Sincerely,

Edward Evans
Senior Field Representative

EE/em
OPEIU:29/afl-cio

195 of 247


--- page 196 ---
From: l watanuki <
 
Sent: Monday, March 6, 2023 12:09:49 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Item 11 - General Plan Update – Land Use Heights and Densities and Measure Y  
  
March 6, 2023 
 
RE: Item 11 - General Plan Update – Land Use Heights and Densities and Measure Y  
 
Dear Mayor Lee and Members of the City Council, 
 
These are comments for the General Plan update. 
 
1. Without Measure Y, we could have more luxury housing at 8 to 12 stories without affordable 
housing included within the project.  In the past, a proposal was made at the Versailles Sr. Housing 
project at a Planning Commission meeting to segregate the affordable Senior housing and market 
rate Senior housing into two buildings in 2 different locations.   A developer proposed to purchase an 
older existing apartment in a lower income area in San Mateo and bus the seniors to the market rate 
Senior housing building for their meals, activities, and use of the library.  This did not 
happened.  With Measure Y, the affordable housing is integrated into the new project and visibly you 
cannot distinguish from the exterior which unit is affordable and which is market rate.  Affordable 
housing is spread equitably around San Mateo with each new residential development and at least 
10 per cent affordable housing would be included.  Measure Y promotes social justice and needs 
your full support.  
 
2. We need a new map with the new densities and heights to reflect Measure Y + density bonuses 
projects.  There are over 18 projects which are in various stages in the Downtown with approved 
heights and densities.  The public needs to see all the new projects built, as well as those in the 
queue at various stages on a map with more details on densities and heights in Study Area 4.  
 
3. We have 2 new Kiku Crossing and BeSpoke affordable housing projects built on City Parking lots 
which are joint projects between the City other developers.  Residents have asked who is 
responsible for the maintenance of these affordable projects?   We need more transparency on what 
financial responsibilities the tax-payers will incur in the future with the maintenance and upkeep of 
joint projects with City, County, State and Federal grants on City-owned properties.  
 
4. Measure Y and its predecessors have worked well for the last 3 decades and has not hindered 
development.  The City has met its housing requirements without rezoning for the Housing 
Element.  The voters have spoken three times, so please listen to the voice of the people and 
support Measure Y over the outside groups which are trying to undermine what the voters have 
already approved.  
 
Thanks for your consideration.  
 
Laurie Watanuki 3-6-23 GP comments 
 
196 of 247

--- page 197 ---
From: Lisa Vande Voorde <f
 
Sent: Monday, March 6, 2023 2:09:03 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: MEASURE Y AND THE GENERAL PLAN: It's a Wonderful Life, Or Is It?  
  
I urge each and every one of you to look deep within 
yourselves, and remember the oath you took when you 
joined the City Council.  You represent us, the residents 
the City of San Mateo, yet some of you continue to 
undermine those for which you serve. 
 
Because here you are at tonight's City Council meeting, 
discussing undoing Measure Y in vast swaths across San 
Mateo.  Excuse me?  Measure Y is THE LAW in our city 
limits until 2030.  I know some of you don't like it, and it's 
been in your crosshairs from the start.  It's in the 
crosshairs of developers too. Bohannon doesn't like it.  So 
you buckle to the silver knife that puts the butter on your 
bread, instead of the majority of residents that you 
represent.  
 
I'm asking you to adhere to Measure Y guidelines as you 
move to finalization of the General Plan. The General Plan 
already meets RHNA targets within the existing 
height/density limits offered by Measure Y.  Affordable 
housing targets can also be met via Measure Y.  So 
obviously, there's an ulterior motive.  And looking at the 
documents in the packet tonight, it's because Bohannon 
needs Measure Y out of the way to make his 10 story 
mixed-use housing a reality in Hillsdale Mall.  And 
interesting those maps staff provided?  Because there is 
no word about the density bonuses.  So, you say they will 
197 of 247

--- page 198 ---
be 10 stories, but won't they will really be 12 stories? And
the colors of those maps?? Readers like me cannot
discern the different shades of blue, the key ones that
exceed the limits of Measure Y. Between the ambiguity of
ACTUAL heights INCLUDING density bonuses AND the
hard-to-read map color gradients, | ask if the City is
purposely trying to obfuscate??

Please think hard about where you are going with

this. We are on a slippery slope to the ruination of all that
makes San Mateo a beautiful and wonderful place to

live. Reminds me of Bedford Falls before

Potterville. Sadly, | now see Bohannon as the Mr. Potter
of San Mateo. City Council members, who among you will
be the George Bailey that saves us?

Lisa Vande Voorde
168 Arbor Lane

Lisa Vande Voorde
LIKE ME ON FACEBOOK:

198 of 247


--- page 199 ---
From: 
 
Sent: Monday, March 6, 2023 1:29:59 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 'Jon Mays' 
 
Subject: March 6 Agenda Item 11  
  
RE:  City Council Regular Meeting Mar 06, 2023, Agenda Item 11 - General Plan Update – Land Use 
Heights and Densities and Measure Y  
Mayor and Council Members, 
You, the members of the San Mateo City Council, once again have an opportunity to demonstrate, to 
prove, your allegiance to the City Charter and commitment to abide by your oath of office. 
Measure Y was passed by a majority of voters. It was the will of the people to give residents of the city a 
true voice in plans for development in their city. 
As I viewed the YouTube video of the Housing Leadership Coalition’s virtual “celebration” 
(  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Myfw6AnY6lI  ) held after the November 2020 election, it 
became clear that our elected officials had nothing but contempt for the rights of the voters and the 
law. (Then) Councilmember Lee, by proclaiming, “We will measure ourselves by the moments of joy and 
connection to our coalition...that is what is going to take us forward…I'm in this with you - the fight is 
not over" tells us that our (now) Mayor is aligned with developers and organizations advocating 
unbridled growth. 
  
Now our ‘new’ city council appears to want to use a need to “Provide direction” regarding Measure Y 
and the General Plan Update as a vehicle to once again “fight” the will of the people. 
Mayor Lee must recuse herself from any discussions, actions or votes regarding this matter. She has 
clearly stated, in the video, her inability to act on the behalf of her constituents and voters on this 
matter. We know where her allegiances lay. 
The recently submitted Housing Element contains a determination that the city can meet housing goals 
without violating Measure Y. Although some on the Planning Commission actively, and some perhaps 
improperly, opposed the submission of the plan, council wisely and timely submitted it. 
Rather than plotting ways to get around Measure Y, a voter mandate, council should, nay – MUST, act 
in good faith to their obligations to the residents of San Mateo and to uphold the provisions of 
Measure Y.  
Any other act is outright malfeasance. 
Regards, 
Dave Cohen 
Resident of the City of San Mateo 
NOT a paid lobbyist  
  
 
199 of 247

--- page 200 ---
From: Larry Garnick <
  
Sent: Monday, March 6, 2023 3:19 PM 
To: Martin McTaggart <mmctaggart@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Fwd: Measure Y 
 
 
From: Larry Garnick <Larry@garnick.com> 
Date: March 6, 2023 at 3:17:18 PM PST 
To: polds@cityofsanmateo.org 
Subject: Measure Y 
 It is my understanding that the city is considering disregarding Measure Y as it relates to the General 
Plan land use.   
 
I voted for Measure Y and I fully expect that the City will respect and comply with all provisions in voter 
approved Measure Y. 
 
As a 30 year homeowner in San Mateo, I request that the City refrains from disregarding Measure Y. 
Larry Garnick 
 
200 of 247

--- page 201 ---
From: Laurie Hietter 
 
Sent: Monday, March 6, 2023 1:53:08 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; Patrice Olds 
<polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; Lisa Diaz Nash <ldiaznash@cityofsanmateo.org>; Rob Newsom 
<rnewsom@cityofsanmateo.org>; Richard Hedges <rhedges@cityofsanmateo.org>; Amourence Lee 
<alee@cityofsanmateo.org>; Adam Loraine <aloraine@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: Comments on General Plan and Measure Y  
  
Dear Council Members and Mayor Lee: 
You are being asked to provide direction on:  
1. The densities and heights that should be incorporated into the General Plan Update’s Land 
Use Element;  
2.  How Measure Y should be incorporated into the General Plan Update; and  
3.  Additional land use and housing policy revisions that should be incorporated into the General 
Plan Update. 
Please do not vote to overturn Measure Y. 
1.       Densities and Heights 
The residents of San Mateo live here because of the beauty, amenities, and relative lack of congestion. 
The previous City Council worked hard to change that by adding 18 projects to our downtown, several of 
which exceed Measure Y height limits due to density bonuses. 
City residents voted three times to limit heights and density in our city. Please explain, in simple terms, 
why the City Council is considering overriding the height and density limits defined in Measure Y (and 
its predecessors) when the Housing Element indicates that there are adequate housing sites available, 
with a substantial buffer, without exceeding the limits in Measure Y. The state density bonuses already 
provide for exceeding Measure Y limits. Do not exacerbate the situation by allowing 10-12 story 
buildings. 
The City of San Mateo has grown at 1% or less in most years. The General Plan contemplates 50% 
population increase in 10 years, which is completely unrealistic, especially given the mass exodus from 
California. Indeed, San Mateo lost 3.3% of its population from July 2021 to July 2022. It is not necessary 
to eliminate the protections of Measure Y, which has already allowed substantial increases in housing 
and office space (over 850,000 square feet of office space).  
How to Address Measure Y in the General Plan 
The General Plan should not be changed to remove the thorough discussion of Measure Y. There is no 
guarantee that a vote to repeal Measure Y would succeed.  
The General Plan is misleading in terms of height and density because it does not reflect the state 
density bonuses that will be applied to those 6,  8, and 10 story buildings with 100-200 units per acre 
(Measure Y allows 50 units per acre). Please make sure the graphics clearly show the heights and 
densities allowed under the density bonuses. 
201 of 247

--- page 202 ---
The General Plan allows for a significant amount of office, commercial, and residential development 
without overturning the will of the citizens and Measure Y. Please do not take this step to substantially 
erode our quality of life by allowing such enormous increases in height and density.  
We support the comments by Lisa Maley and Dave Cohen, who call on the council members to vote for 
the will of the residents, rather than “the coalition” that wants unrestrained building without paying for 
any infrastructure improvements. Mayor Lee and the previous City Council made decisions that benefit 
the YIMBY Coalition (actually yes in YOUR backyard), builders, the unions, and Big Tech. Please make 
your decisions based on the wishes of San Mateo residents, rather than special interests.  
Sincerely, 
Laurie and Randy Hietter 
 
202 of 247

--- page 203 ---
From: Andrew Sevillia 
  
Sent: Monday, March 6, 2023 2:30 PM 
To: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; City Council (San Mateo) 
<CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org>; General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: 
 
Subject: General Plan Update – Land Use Heights and Densities and Measure Y 
 
Dear Councilmembers, 
 
The following is clearly stated regarding the Agenda Report dated March 06, 2023, prepared by the 
Community Development Department and City Manager, Drew Corbett.  
 
"Measure Y is a ballot measure that was passed by voters in November 2020. It retained existing height 
and density limits on new development that were originally adopted under Measure P and has a sunset 
date of 2030. Overall, the Measure Y height limit is set at up to 55 feet (five stories) and a density limit 
that allows up to 50 units per acre."  
 
Mr. Corbett states, "...the State Density Bonus law allows projects to exceed both height and density 
limits when certain percentages of affordable units are provided."  
 
In April 2022 and again in July 2022, you approved the Preferred Land Use Scenario, which "...includes 
building heights and densities that exceed the limits set by Measure Y." I urge you to remember that 
"Any components of the General Plan Update that are inconsistent with Measure Y will require voter 
approval before they can take effect." 
 
Mr. Corbett also makes it clear that the City Council will need to "...submit a resolution and ballot 
measure to the San Mateo County Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder before the relevant election 
deadline." and that "...staff is recommending that City Council pursue a ballot measure that would 
remove Measure Y growth limits within the ten Study Areas." 
 
Before the ballot deadline for November 2024, you need to review the final version of the General Plan 
and final Environmental Impact Report (EIR) and adopt a resolution and ballot language to overturn 
Measure Y. 
 
While I understand that growth is inevitable in a location like San Mateo, I would advise you to follow 
Mr. Corbett's guidance. Pushing for height and density changes without putting the matter on the ballot 
for voters to decide will likely result in an abrupt conclusion to your political aspirations in San Mateo. 
 
Regards, 
  
Andrew Sevillia 
 
203 of 247

--- page 204 ---
From: Karen S 
  
Sent: Monday, March 6, 2023 1:36 PM 
To: City Council (San Mateo) <CityCouncil@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Cc: Patrice Olds <polds@cityofsanmateo.org>; General Plan <generalplan@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 3/6/23 City Council Meeting - General Plan feedback 
 
Dear City Council, 
 
Please consider the following as you make your General Plan decisions and approach 
Measure Y: 
 
I believe it's unnecessary to skirt Measure Y to meet housing goals. You have been able 
to meet housing goals (and more) under the guidelines of Measure Y. 
 
We don't need the same amount of building that we once did due to Covid. People are 
working differently and not necessarily living near their work due to the expansion of 
work-from-home programs and Zoom meetings, etc. We need to take all that into 
consideration before powering ahead to meet a need that may not be there. 
 
If we expand height limits, density bonuses will push them up even farther. Please do 
not allow our city to go in that direction. 
 
Measure Y protections help ensure the minimum amount of affordable housing is built. 
Skirting Measure Y will enable skirting this minimum as well. 
 
A majority of the city voted for Measure Y. Even though state law has attempted to 
curtail local measures, it's critical that you as our city representatives attend to local 
concerns as we are your constituency that you took an oath to serve. It's critical that the 
city attends to the needs of current San Mateo residents and homeowners as that is 
who you are representing, not residents of other cities who voice their concerns or 
future residents. 
 
Please take measures to ensure that Measure Y will be protected and adhered to in the 
General Plan. 
 
Thank you. 
 
Respectfully, 
Karen Sid 
 
 
 
 
204 of 247

--- page 205 ---
Land Use Heights and Densities, 
and Measure Y
March 6, 2023
205 of 247

--- page 206 ---
2
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan Team
»
City of San Mateo
• Zachary Dahl, Deputy Director
• Manira Sandhir, Planning Manager
• Somer Smith, Associate Planner
• Vinson Kwan, Assistant Planner
• Bethany Lopez, Senior Engineer
• Mary Way, Administrative Assistant
»
Technical Advisory Committee
• Over 40 staff members from all City 
departments and SMCFD
»
Consultants
• Joanna Jansen, PlaceWorks
• Carey Stone, PlaceWorks
• Angelica Garcia, PlaceWorks
• Evelia Chairez, PCRC
• Sabina Mora, Good City Co
• Nelson\Nygaard
• Kittelson Associates, Inc.
• Economic & Planning Systems (EPS)
• BKF Engineers
206 of 247

--- page 207 ---
3
StriveSanMateo.org
Tonight’s Agenda Discussion
» Presentation
» Clarifying Questions
» Public Comment
» Council Discussion and Direction
207 of 247

--- page 208 ---
4
StriveSanMateo.org
Objectives for Tonight 
» Overview of:
• General Plan Update densities and heights
• Measure Y alignment with General Plan Update
• Land use policy or program revisions that should be incorporated into the General Plan 
Update
» Receive public comments
» City Council discussion and direction on:
• General Plan Update height ranges
• How Measure Y is incorporated in the General Plan Update and a future ballot initiative to 
update Measure Y
• Other policies or programs/actions that should be considered for the General Plan Update
208 of 247

--- page 209 ---
Project Overview
209 of 247

--- page 210 ---
6
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan: Vision Statement
210 of 247

--- page 211 ---
7
StriveSanMateo.org
General Plan Milestones
Timeframe
Task
Fall - Winter 2018 
Establish communitywide vision for 2040
Spring - Summer 2019 
Identify study areas
•
Developed with an awareness of Measures P and Y
•
Study areas did not include any Single-Family Residential areas
Fall 2019 
Create a range of land use alternatives
Winter 2019 - Summer 2021
Finalize draft land use alternatives
Fall 2021 - Summer 2022
Select a preferred land use and circulation scenario
Summer - Fall 2022
Prepare draft goals, policies, and actions (GoPAs)
211 of 247

--- page 212 ---
8
StriveSanMateo.org
Where Are We Now and What’s Next? 
We are here
212 of 247

--- page 213 ---
Community Outreach and 
Engagement
213 of 247

--- page 214 ---
10
StriveSanMateo.org
Community Engagement
» Outreach events from 2018 to 2022 
include:
•
23 community workshops

2 youth events

3 Spanish language events
•
26 pop-up events
•
5 online activities
•
2 newsletters mailed to every San Mateo household
•
16+ Staff presentations to community groups
•
Focused outreach by PCRC at: Beresford Community Center, Mi Rancho Market, 
Los Primos Taqueria, Video Loco, North B Street, bus stops, food distribution 
sites, churches, laundromats, COVID testing sites, etc.
214 of 247

--- page 215 ---
11
StriveSanMateo.org
2022 Communitywide Survey
» Too little housing is available that is affordable to middle-income and low-
income families 
» Important planning factors: adequate water supply, preserving open space 
and creating new parks, minimizing vehicle trips and traffic congestion, 
creating pedestrian-friendly areas, and minimizing pollution and 
greenhouse gas emissions
» Least important planning factors: keeping building heights low and 
minimizing the number of new units added to single-family neighborhoods
» Support for buildings up to 8 or 12 stories to reserve more land for parks, 
recreation areas, and community amenities and minimize change to 
existing neighborhoods
215 of 247

--- page 216 ---
12
StriveSanMateo.org
» Fall 2023 – Draft General Plan
• Three City Council meetings
» Late 2023/early 2024 – Adoption Hearings
• Up to three City Council meetings
Future City Council Meetings on General Plan
216 of 247

--- page 217 ---
2040 Proposed General 
Plan Heights and Densities
217 of 247

--- page 218 ---
14
StriveSanMateo.org
Draft Land Use Map
218 of 247

--- page 219 ---
15
StriveSanMateo.org
Draft Land Use Map 
by Study Area
219 of 247

--- page 220 ---
16
StriveSanMateo.org
Proposed Land Use Heights and Densities 
Land Use Intensity Height Range
Density Range
Consistent with 
Measure Y?
Very Low
1 to 2 stories 
1 to 9 units per acre
Yes
Low I
1 to 3 stories
10 to 19 units per acre
Yes
Low II
2 to 4 stories
20 to 35 units per acre
Yes
Medium I
3 to 5 stories
36 to 50 units per acre
Yes
Medium II
4 to 6 stories
51 to 99 units per acre
No
High I
5 to 8 stories
100 to 130 units per acre
No
High II
6 to 10 stories
100 to 200 units per acre
No
220 of 247

--- page 221 ---
17
StriveSanMateo.org
Density and Height Range Recommendations
» Started with the Place Types Menu 
•
Tool to facilitate discussion during the 
Alternatives Evaluation – a menu of land use 
typologies that could be considered for 
development in the City
» Presented a range of possible 
densities, heights and scales
» Transitioning Place Types to Land Use 
Designations
•
Defining parameters for height and density
221 of 247

--- page 222 ---
18
StriveSanMateo.org
Density Range Recommendations
» Increased land use categories
•
Increase categories from 3 to 7 to allow for density/intensity transitions between areas 
and neighborhoods
» Very Low range: 1-9 units/acre
• Aligns with R1 neighborhoods
» Low range: 10-19 and 20-35 units/acre
•
Aligns with R2 and R3 zones
» Medium range: 36-50 and 51-99 units/acre
•
Medium I aligns with Measure Y and provides transitions from Low
•
Medium II only located in study areas
» High range: 100-130, and 100-200 units/acre
•
Only located in proximity to transit or in key areas identify by community/Council
222 of 247

--- page 223 ---
19
StriveSanMateo.org
Height Range Recommendations 
» Very Low range: 1-2 stories
• Adjusted to 1-3 stories to better align with existing conditions
» Low II/Medium I range: 2-5 stories
•
New transitional category to avoid any density reductions
» Medium II range: 4-6 stories
•
Adjusted to align with community input while still ensuring density range is 
feasible and achievable
» High range: 5-10 stories
•
No max identified in Alternatives Evaluation
•
2022 Community Survey asked about buildings up to 12 stories
223 of 247

--- page 224 ---
20
StriveSanMateo.org
Relationship Between Site Design and Height
224 of 247

--- page 225 ---
21
StriveSanMateo.org
Basis for Recommendations
» Increased density within the Study Areas allows for:
•
Increased amount of affordable housing that can be produced in San Mateo
•
Ability for City to meet current and future RHNAs with few sites 
•
Focuses growth around transit and reduces Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT)

Limits traffic and circulation impacts to local neighborhood streets 
•
Avoids the need to upzone low density (R1) neighborhoods
» Increased height within the Study Areas allows for:
•
Increased opportunities for open space with new development
•
Improved building design by increasing design flexibility and avoiding the need 
to fill an entire site to achieve needed density
225 of 247

--- page 226 ---
22
StriveSanMateo.org
Zoning Code Update
» City will update Zoning Code 
following General Plan 
adoption
» Zoning Code districts will 
further refine the allowed 
densities, FAR, and height
» Not all Districts need to allow 
the max height allowed by 
the General Plan
Existing General Plan 
Existing Zoning Code
226 of 247

--- page 227 ---
23
StriveSanMateo.org
Zoning Code Update - Timing
» Following adoption of the General Plan, Zoning Code will 
need to be updated
• Includes Zoning Code amendments and updated Zoning Map to align 
with General Plan
• Could take 1-2+ years to complete, depending on final version of 
General Plan
• Will include community outreach and engagement and direction from 
Planning Commission before City Council consideration
• General Plan Implementation Plan will be developed following adoption 
227 of 247

--- page 228 ---
24
StriveSanMateo.org
Density Bonus
»
Land Use Designations 
•
Set the ranges and maximums
»
Zoning Code
•
Sets specific densities, height limits and other site standards within the ranges 
established by the General Plan
»
State Density Bonus Allows for projects that provide certain amounts of 
affordable housing to build more units and exceed limits set by Zoning
•
Density Bonus – projects can, if requested, exceed density limit by up to 50%
•
Concessions/Incentives – projects can request height increases, setback reductions, 
FAR increases, or other Zoning Code relief
»
Density Bonus does not directly apply to the General Plan
228 of 247

--- page 229 ---
25
StriveSanMateo.org
Density Bonus (cont.)
» Height ranges in the General Plan were reduced to account for 
Density Bonus and Community Benefits
» Place Types Menu
•
Medium – 4-7 stories 
•
High 8+ stories (Community Survey polled on 8-12 stories)
» Recommended Land Use Designations
•
Medium I – 3-5 stories 
•
Medium II – 4-6 stories
•
High I – 5-8 stories 
•
High II – 6-10 stories 
229 of 247

--- page 230 ---
Measure Y Alignment
230 of 247

--- page 231 ---
27
StriveSanMateo.org
Relationship to Measure Y
» Measure Y is a ballot measure passed by the voters in November 2020
» Retained the height and density limits from Measure P
• Sunset date of 2030
» Measure Y includes a height limit of up to 55 feet and a density limit up 
to 50 dwelling units per acre
• Height limit allows for exceptions in certain locations and under certain circumstances
• State Density Bonus law allows projects to exceed both limits when affordable units are 
provided
» Any components within the updated General Plan that are inconsistent 
with Measure Y will require voter approval before they could take effect
231 of 247

--- page 232 ---
28
StriveSanMateo.org
Draft General Plan and 
Measure Y Alignment
»
Designations that exceed Measure Y limits: 
Residential and Mixed Use Medium II, High I 
and High II and Office High
• Only occurs within study areas
• Generally located near Caltrain stations, El 
Camino Real corridor, and Bridgepointe 
Shopping Center
232 of 247

--- page 233 ---
|
oo : *
Wee”

Range of Height conf (ft. i
Dy > 30' \
| 20'- 30
) 10'- 20 a
Me 0-10 J

ai
io x
KUN Ly a | a

&

2 9
8,
Serre r nMateo.org

29



--- page 234 ---
a Kehoe Ave ;

Range of Height Conflict (ft.)
Dy > 30'

| 20'- 30!

)) 10'- 20'

Me 19,,



--- page 235 ---
he An
Oves

OLFAND
CLUB
IRATED)ie
pou"

“tee

Range of Height Conflict (ft.)

\ ¥e Mea [I > 30
Maximum Allowed Height Differences ON yr oe J) 20'- 30
between Existing General Plan Land Use xX ) 10'- 20
and Draft General Plan Land Use \ | eto


--- page 236 ---
32
StriveSanMateo.org
Measure Y Alignment with Draft General Plan
» Draft General Plan would continue to apply Measure Y requirements 
until:
• Measure sunsets; or
• Voters provide different direction
» Public Review Draft General Plan would include Measure Y as an 
appendix, but specific text would not be incorporated into the Land 
Use Element
» Measure Y would be implemented by this policy:
Voter Approved Growth Limits. As required by law, for the duration that Measure Y is in 
effect, any inconsistency between the measure and other provisions of the General Plan’s 
Land Use Element shall default to the provisions specified in Measure Y.
» Reference to Measure Y will be added to each land use designation
236 of 247

--- page 237 ---
33
StriveSanMateo.org
Measure Y Alignment Timeline
» January 2024 – Council considers Final EIR and General 
Plan for adoption
» Spring 2024 – Council reviews ballot language and 
resolution
» November 2024 – voters consider Measure Y related ballot 
measure
237 of 247

--- page 238 ---
Other Draft General Plan 
Policies or Programs/Actions
238 of 247

--- page 239 ---
35
StriveSanMateo.org
Additional General Plan Policy Direction
»
Council input from last fall (GoPAs) and this past January (Housing Element 
adoption) resulted in following additions:
• (Policy) Apprenticeship Programs. Encourage employers within San Mateo, especially building and 
construction companies, to evaluate implementing apprenticeship training programs that provide on-
the-job training.
• (Policy) Local Hiring and a Living Wage. Encourage developers and contractors to evaluate hiring 
local labor and providing living wages within the City of San Mateo.
• (Action) First Source Hiring. Explore the feasibility of establishing a First Source Hiring Program that 
encourages developers and contractors to make best efforts to hire new employees, workers, and 
subcontractors that are based in San Mateo County.
• (Action) Living Wage Incentives. Maintain provisions in the Affordable Housing Commercial Linkage 
Fee that offer fee reductions to developers who voluntarily enter into Area Standard Wage Participation 
Agreements with the City.
»
These policies/actions are draft and can be revised and/or updated
»
Other topics to address?
239 of 247

--- page 240 ---
36
StriveSanMateo.org
Council Meeting Public Comments
» 72 written comments received between March 2nd and 
6th (as of 2pm)
» Expressions of support to maintain Measure Y height and 
density limits and to revise Measure Y to allow for increased 
housing production
» Interest in more community outreach and engagement on 
this topic
240 of 247

--- page 241 ---
City Council Discussion 
and Direction
241 of 247

--- page 242 ---
38
StriveSanMateo.org
City Council Discussion and Direction 
» Confirm that the proposed height ranges associated with each land 
use designation are appropriate to include in the Public Review Draft 
General Plan.  
» Confirm direction on General Plan alignment with Measure Y and a 
future ballot initiative to update Measure Y.
» Provide input, if desired, on other policies or programs/actions in the 
General Plan Update, including the Housing Element, that should be 
evaluated for potential updates or revisions.
242 of 247

--- page 243 ---
STRIVE SAN MATEO

GENERAL PLAN 2040



--- page 244 ---
Clarifying Questions?
244 of 247

--- page 245 ---
Public Comment
245 of 247

--- page 246 ---
City Council Discussion
246 of 247

--- page 247 ---
43
StriveSanMateo.org
City Council Discussion and Direction
» Confirm that the proposed height ranges associated with 
each land use designation are appropriate to include in the 
Public Review Draft General Plan.  
» Confirm direction on General Plan alignment with Measure Y 
and a future ballot initiative to update Measure Y.
» Provide input, if desired, on other policies or 
programs/actions in the General Plan Update, including the 
Housing Element, that should be evaluated for potential 
updates or revisions.
247 of 247