Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Marin County CA SO
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Thu Aug 06 2026

Overview

Marin County County Sheriff's Office uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Marin County County Sheriff's Office utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Marin County County Sheriff's Office utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

29

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

530,188

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

229

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

California SVS, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

1,396

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Marin County CA SO data.

Belvedere CA PD
Benicia CA PD
California Highway Patrol
Central Marin CA PD
Citrus Heights CA PD
Delano CA PD
Hayward CA PD
Manteca CA PD
Mill Valley CA PD
Novato CA PD
Palo Alto CA PD
Rohnert Park Department of Public Safety (CA)
San Francisco CA PD
San Luis Obispo CA PD
San Rafael CA PD
Sausalito CA PD
Solano County CA SO
Tehachapi CA PD
Tiburon CA PD
Turlock CA PD
Williams CA PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Marin County County Sheriff's Office and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
More Info

Marin County Sheriff's Office Policy

https://marinsheriff.gov/assets/pdf/policy-426.pdf

Provided by Flock Safety