source: packet.pdf
sha256: d224805a9ceb58cce9def11da82ead37cddc3f0fd8c919c066a70bab671b5114
pages: 612
ocr_pages: 29
---
--- page 1 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Planning Commission Regular
Meeting
February 10, 2026
7:00 PM
City Hall Council Chamber
Entrance is on O’Farrell Street
 
COMMISSION MEMBERS
Seema Patel, Chair
Adam Klafter, Vice Chair
Caiti Busch
Maxwell Schaumkel
Margaret Williams
AGENDA
THIS MEETING CAN BE ATTENDED IN PERSON OR REMOTE BY JOINING ZOOM – SEE CODES BELOW.
PUBLIC COMMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED BOTH IN PERSON AND REMOTELY.
SEE END OF AGENDA FOR OPTIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MEETING.
To join via Zoom – click here: February 10, 2026
To join via telephone:  (408) 638-0968     
Webinar ID: 835 4745 5691      Passcode:613521
The Planning Commission meeting will conclude by 11:00 p.m. unless otherwise extended by commission vote.
Any unheard items will automatically move forward to the next regular meeting.
CALL TO ORDER
Pledge Allegiance
Roll Call 
PUBLIC COMMENT
During the public comment period, members of the public may speak on general items of interest within the Commission's
jurisdiction that are not on the agenda.  Each member of the public may speak for a maximum of three minutes with a maximum of
15 minutes for the entire public comment period. The Chair shall determine whether the matter is within the Commission's
jurisdiction. The Commission shall not act on or discuss any matters raised during the public comment period, which are not on the
agenda, but shall refer such matters to staff for review and/or request such matters be placed on a future agenda.
PUBLIC HEARING
Planning Commission decisions are final unless appealed to the City Council in accordance with Section 27.08.090 and Section
27.08.060 of the San Mateo Municipal Code. The time within which judicial review of any final decision may be sought is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6. If any person challenges a Planning action in court, they may be limited to raising only those
issues raised at the public hearing or in written correspondence delivered to the City of San Mateo, at or prior to, the public hearing.
Some public hearings will be automatically referred to City Council and those will be indicated below.
 
1.
668 E. 3rd Avenue – New Multi-Family Residential Development (PA-2025-025)​
Recommend that the City Council adopt a resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR),
and Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for the construction of a new multi-family residential building
with 128 units and associated site improvements at 668 East 3rd Avenue, and find that the Project is Statutorily
Exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to Assembly Bill 130, based on the
findings for approval and subject to the conditions of approval.

--- page 2 ---
CEQA: 
The project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act pursuant to Public Resource Code 21080.66.
2.
1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard - Multi-Family Residential Development (PA-2025-029)
Adopt a Resolution approving the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), Site Development Planning
Application (SDPA), and Vesting Tentative Map (VTM) for the construction of 256 multi-family residential units
located at 1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard, and find that the project is exempt from the California
Environmental Quality Act pursuant to Public Resource Code 21080.66, based on the Findings for Approval and
subject to Conditions of Approval.
CEQA: 
The project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act pursuant to Public Resource Code 21080.66.
REPORTS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS
Commission Members and Staff report on their various assignments and Commission requests for scheduling future items.
ADJOURNMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGENDAS: Agendas and material are posted on the City’s website on the Friday preceding each Planning Commission Meeting and can be viewed
on the City's website at www.cityofsanmateo.org . Any supplemental material distributed to the Commission after the posting of the agenda will be
made part of the official record.
WATCHING A MEETING ON TV: City Council meetings are broadcast live on Comcast/channel 27, Wave/channel 26, or AT&T/channel 99.For
transmission problems during the broadcast, please call (650) 522-7099.
For all other broadcast comments, call (650) 522-7040, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
WATCHING A MEETING ON A COMPUTER: There are three ways to stream.
1) Public Meeting Portal www.cityofsanmateo.org/publicmeetings
2) City YouTube channel and stream it on YouTube: http://youtube.com/CityofSanMateo
3) Watch TV live stream: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/193/Channel-San-Mateo-Live-Stream 
PUBLIC COMMENTS/REQUEST TO SPEAK
Prior to the Meeting 
Send comments to: planningcommission@cityofsanmateo.org until 4 p.m. the day of the meeting.
During the meeting
By computer: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of
interest is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
By telephone: Call (408) 638-0968 and enter the conference ID found at the top of the meeting agenda. When the item of interest is open for
consideration, select *9 to raise your hand. When called upon, press *6 to unmute, state your name and provide your comments.
By Zoom: Click the link at the top of the agenda and you’ll be added to the meeting. All attendees are muted by default. When the item of interest
is open for consideration, select the “Raise Your Hand” icon and you will be called on at the appropriate time.
In Person: At the meeting complete a “Request to Speak” form, submit a request at the speaker kiosk or scan the QR code.
ACCESSIBILITY: In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, those with disabilities requiring special accommodations to participate in
this meeting may contact the Planning Division Office at (650) 522-7212 or planning@cityofsanmateo.org. Notification 48 hours prior to the
meeting will enable the City to make reasonable arrangements to ensure accessibility to this meeting.

--- page 3 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  1
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
Account Number: 
File ID: 25-10742
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 10, 2026 
SUBJECT:
668 E. 3rd  Avenue – New Multi-Family Residential Development (PA-2025-025)
RECOMMENDATION
Recommend that the City Council adopt a resolution to approve the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), and Site 
Development Planning Application (SDPA) for the construction of a new multi-family residential building with 128 units and 
associated site improvements at 668 East 3rd Avenue, and find that the Project is Statutorily Exempt from the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to Assembly Bill 130, based on the findings for approval and subject to the 
conditions of approval.  
BACKGROUND:
On April 2, 2025, Prometheus Real Estate Group (applicant) submitted a Planning Application (PA-2025-025) to demolish the 
existing one-story commercial shopping center known as Gateway Crossing (13,650 square feet) and construct a new multi-
family residential building (“Project”). The proposed residential building will be eight stories tall, with one level of below 
grade parking (73 spaces), be approximately 169,750 square feet in size and include 128 residential units. Of the 128 
residential units, 20 are proposed to be provided as below market rate (BMR) affordable housing units (10 at the very low-
income affordability level and 10 at the moderate-income affordability level). The proposed unit mix includes studio, one-
bedroom, two-bedroom and three-bedroom units. This application follows the submittal of a Preliminary Application (PA-
2024-065) made under the Housing Crisis Act (Senate Bill 330) which was submitted on November 13, 2024. A Neighborhood 
Informational Meeting was held by the applicant on March 19, 2025.
Project Site
The Project site is located at 668 East 3rd Avenue, bounded by South Eldorado Street on the east, East 3rd Avenue on the 
north, and South Delaware Street on the west. The site is 0.64 acres (28,387 square feet) in size, has a General Plan Land 
Use designation of Mixed-Use Medium II, and is zoned CBD/S (Central Business District Support). The site is also within the 
Downtown Area Plan Gateway Sub-Area. The existing site is developed with a one-story 13,650 square-foot commercial 
building with surface parking. Adjacent uses include a gas station and office/commercial buildings on the same block just 
south of the Project site, the four-story Metropolitan Apartments complex across South Eldorado Street to the east, a 
currently vacant lot with an approved entitlement for a six-story mixed-use building across South Delaware Street (known 
as “Block 21”) to the west, and a two-story commercial building and gas station/car wash across East 3rd Avenue to the 
north. The downtown San Mateo Caltrain stop is approximately 0.3 miles walking distance from the site to the northwest. 
A location map showing the Project site is included as Attachment 2.
Project Description
The Project includes an eight-story multi-family residential building with 128 residential units and 73 off-street covered 
parking stalls. Of the total 128 units, 20 units are provided as Below Market Rate (BMR) affordable units (10 of which will be

--- page 4 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
provided at the very-low income affordability level, and the other 10 will be at the moderate income affordability level). The 
unit mix is shown in Table 1 below. The BMR units are distributed throughout each story of the building. 
Table 1  - Proposed Units
Unit Type
BMR Units 
(Very-Low)
BMR Units 
(Moderate)
Market Rate 
Units
Total 
Units
Studio
0
1
0
1
Urban 1-bed1
4
2
46
52
1-bed
3
4
30
37
2-bed
2
3
28
33
3-bed2
1
0
4
5
Total Units
10
10
108
128
The main pedestrian and street access to the building is at the corner of South Delaware St. and East 3rd Avenue, with 
pedestrian access to the townhouses along East 3rd Avenue.  The parking garage is three levels, with 43 stalls below-grade, 
12 on the ground floor, and 18 on the second story. Bicycle parking facilities include 140 long-term secured bicycle storage 
racks located within the parking areas, and exterior bike racks to accommodate the required 10 short-term bicycle parking 
spaces are provided along South Delaware Street. The Project proposes a variety of residential amenities, including a fitness 
room with a sauna and strength studio, dog washing area, amenity deck on the third floor, and a common room and amenity 
deck with a barbeque area on the eighth floor. 
The building design and context are discussed further below. Project plans showing the proposed site plan, floor plans, 
elevations, and architectural renderings are included as Attachment 3.
APPLICABLE CODE AND POLICY REVIEW:
General Plan and Zoning Code
The  General Plan 2040 Land Use Designation for the Project site is Mixed Use Medium II, which allows for medium-density 
mixed-use buildings that provide a mix of commercial, office, and/or residential uses within the same site or building.  This 
Land Use Designation allows for a mix of uses near other mixed-use, commercial, or residential areas, and within Downtown. 
The Mixed-Use Medium II designation allows for residential densities of up to 99 dwelling units per acre. For this 0.64-acre 
site, the base density allows up to 64 units. (The calculation of 63.36 units that is rounded up to 64 units in accordance with 
State housing law requiring fractional units be rounded up to the nearest whole number). To achieve the total of 128 units, 
which is double the maximum density, the applicant is requesting a density bonus under State law, which is further discussed 
below. A list of applicable General Plan policies, and discussion of how the Project is consistent with these policies is included 
in the Resolution (Attachment 1).
The Project site is zoned Central Business District Support (CBD/S), which is subject to development standards outlined in 
San Mateo Municipal Code (“SMMC”) Chapter 27.39. The CBD/S district allows for a variety of uses (both commercial and 
residential) and is intended to encourage opportunities for businesses that support the downtown core, and residential uses 
to support housing opportunities close to the downtown. A Project Data Table listing the applicable Zoning Code standards 
and the Project’s conformance to them Is included as Attachment 4. As noted in the table, where there is an inconsistency 
between the Zoning Code and the General Plan 2040, the General Plan shall control (per Government Code Section 
65860(c)(2)(B) and SMMC Section 27.02.220). Additionally, the applicant has not requested any concessions, but is seeking 
waivers to certain development standards in accordance with State Density Bonus Law (Government Code Section 65915). 
These waivers are discussed in greater detail below. 
Parking Standards
The Project is located within the City’s Central Parking Improvement District, which was established to set specific parking 
1 “Urban 1-bed” are designed to be a type of studio unit, with a partial wall separating the living and sleeping areas. Since the separation is not a full wall, this is not 
counted as a bedroom.
2 Of the five 3-bedroom units, one is a 3-bedroom apartment unit with one level, and the other four are the 3-bedroom “townhome” style units, which have two levels 
of living area and are accessible by separate entrances at the ground level. The one very-low income 3-bed BMR unit is a townhome style unit.

--- page 5 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
regulations for projects located within the Downtown Specific Plan Area.  However, the site is also located within 0.5-miles 
of the Downtown San Mateo Caltrain station, which is a major transit stop. Pursuant to Government Code Section 65863.2 
(AB 2097), the Project is not subject to minimum parking requirements or parking in-lieu fees. Despite the fact that no 
parking is required, the proposed Project does include 73 off-street parking stalls for the residents.  
Downtown Area Plan
The Project site is located within the Downtown Plan Area, in the Gateway Sub-Area. The Downtown Area Plan, adopted in 
2009, provides a vision for Downtown San Mateo that is pedestrian-friendly and serves as a focal point of the community, 
including a blend of historical buildings and new development, with retail, entertainment, and housing opportunities. The 
Gateway Sub-Area serves as the primary entry point to Downtown from U.S. Highway 101. The vision of the Gateway Sub-
Area includes an emphasis on multi-family residential uses, with design guidelines aimed at promoting new development 
that is compatible with existing neighborhoods. The Downtown and Gateway design guidelines have been adapted to 
enforceable objective standards reflected in the City’s Multifamily and Residential Mixed-Use Objective Design Standards 
(ODS), discussed further below. 
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
The Project requires a Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval for construction of a new building in accordance 
with SMMC Section 27.08.030. Staff have reviewed the Project for compliance with the Objective Design Standards and 
worked with the applicant to revise portions of the design for greater compatibility with these standards and the surrounding 
neighborhood context. Detailed findings for approval of the SPAR are included in the Resolution (Attachment 1). 
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)
The Project requires a Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) for removal of major vegetation in conjunction with 
the redevelopment. The Project is exempt from the SDPA requirements related to grading activities per SMMC Section 
23.40.030(d)(1), as the excavations below finished grade proposed for this Project are for building footings and a basement 
level parking structure within the footprint of the building. “Major vegetation” is defined as live vegetation consisting of tree 
growth with a trunk diameter of six inches or greater measured at 54-inches above natural grade. Additionally, the Municipal 
Code defines a “Protected Tree” as any heritage tree or street tree. Heritage trees include any oak tree with a minimum 
diameter of 10 inches measured at 54-inches above natural grade, as well as any other tree species with a minimum diameter 
of 15 inches measured at 54-inches above natural grade. 
On the Project site there are a total of nine existing trees, four of which qualify as protected trees. As a part of the Project 
plans, all of the existing trees are proposed to be removed. Per SMMC Section 27.71, the Project is required to provide the 
equivalent landscape unit (LU) value of the removed trees, either by planting new trees, paying an in-lieu fee, or providing 
some combination of both new tree planting and in-lieu fee payment. The Project proposes to plant 16 new trees along the 
Project frontages, and will pay an in-lieu fee into the City’s Tree Planting Fund for the difference between the loss of LU 
value and tree replacement credit. Additional details on the SDPA findings for approval are included in the Resolution 
(Attachment 1). 
APPLICABLE HOUSING LAWS:
State Density Bonus Law
The Project utilizes the provisions of State Density Bonus Law in accordance with Government Code Section 65915 and as 
locally adopted in SMMC Chapter 27.15 Density Bonus. To comply with Density Bonus regulations, the City must allow for 
increased residential density, reduced parking standards, and “concessions” and “waivers” from development standards for 
residential projects that provide a certain percentage of units as affordable units.
The Project site’s General Plan Land Use Designation of Mixed-Use Medium II, with a density of 99 units per acre, allows for  
a base of 64 units. The Project includes 15 percent (10 units) at the very low-income level, and another 15 percent (10 units) 
at the moderate-income level. Pursuant to AB 1287 (Government Code Section 66915(v)), a project can receive a 50 percent 
density bonus when 15 percent of the units are proposed at very low-income levels and another 50 percent density bonus 
when an additional 15 percent moderate rate units are added. This would afford the Project a “stacked” density bonus of 
up to 100 percent, which allows for a maximum of 128 units.

--- page 6 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Concession and Waiver Requests
For this Project, State Density Bonus Law also allows the applicant to request up to three concessions and unlimited waivers 
from development standards. Generally speaking, a concession (or incentive) is a reduction or modification of a development 
standard that results in identifiable or actual cost reductions to provide for affordable housing costs, helping to make the 
Project financially feasible. (A concession also includes a reduction in site development standards or a modification of zoning 
code requirements that exceed minimum building standards, as specified.)  A waiver is a modification of a standard that 
would otherwise physically preclude the construction of the Project at the allowed density. The Project application does not 
identify any concession requests under State Density Bonus Law. However, the Project is seeking several waivers for aspects 
of the Project that do not meet various City development standards. The applicant has also included a summary of the 
Project waivers in a density bonus request letter (Attachment 5), as well as waiver diagrams on Sheets G010 and G011 of 
the Project plans (Attachment 3). A complete list of the Project waivers is included in Attachment 1, Exhibit B.
Staff have evaluated the waivers and concluded that the waivers identified are necessary to allow construction of the Project 
at the densities permitted under the City’s General Plan and State Density Bonus Law. 
Other Applicable State Laws
In addition to State Density Bonus Law, there are several other State Laws that regulate housing development projects. For 
this Project, these include, but are not necessarily limited to the following:
•
The Housing Crisis Act (Senate Bill 330)
o
Under Senate Bill 330 (SB 330), the Project vests the ordinances, policies, and standards adopted and in 
effect when a preliminary application was submitted to the City. This Project submitted a Preliminary 
Application under SB 330 on November 13, 2024, and is therefore vested to the ordinances, policies, and 
standards in place as of this date. 
•
The Housing Accountability Act (HAA) 
o
The HAA limits a local agency’s ability to deny, reduce the density of, or render housing development 
projects infeasible if objective standards are met. As proposed, this Project meets all applicable objective 
standards in the General Plan, Zoning Code, and other local policy documents that were in effect at the time 
the preliminary application was submitted under SB330.
•
Assembly Bill 130
o
Assembly Bill 130 (AB 130) was signed into law and became effective immediately on June 20, 2025. AB130 
included numerous changes related to housing laws, including the addition of a new statutory exemption 
from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for housing development projects on sites under 20 
acres that meet specific qualifying criteria. In addition to the CEQA exemption, AB130 requires the Project 
to be processed on an expedited timeline.  
Inclusionary Housing Requirements
The City’s Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program requires rental projects of 11 or more units to provide a minimum of 
15 percent of the proposed units to be designated low-income units. The applicant proposes to designate 10 units (15 
percent of the base density) as affordable at the very low-income level, which meets the City’s Inclusionary Program 
requirements. These affordable units are required to be distributed throughout the development, have access to all on-site 
amenities, generally be of comparable size to similar market rate units, and have an exterior design and appearance 
compatible with similar market rate units.
DESIGN REVIEW – OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS:
The Project was reviewed for consistency with the City’s Multi-family and Residential Mixed-Use Objective Design Standards 
(ODS). The Project’s architectural style includes influences of Mediterranean and Spanish Revival styles, expressed in a 
contemporary manner. Features such as arches and decorative tile around the entryway, balconies, pergolas in open space 
areas, as well as materials such as stucco, metal railings, and terra-cotta roof tiles are incorporated into the design, which 
also features more modern window openings and massing.
The building is eight stories in height, which is considered a high-rise building per the City’s ODS. The Project includes a

--- page 7 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
parking structure, with one basement level and parking integrated into the building on the first two levels. The parking area 
is fully enclosed, with one garage entry from South Eldorado Street proposed. The frontage includes public open space with 
landscape planters and a seating bench incorporated into the design, as well as ground-level residential entries for four 
townhome units along East 3rd Avenue, contributing to a pedestrian-friendly environment at the street level. The structure’s 
massing follows the rule of thirds, with three primary horizontal elements, as well as a distinct base, body, and top to provide 
vertical massing breaks. The Project also requests several waivers from the ODS, specifically related to blank walls, and 
standards derived from the Downtown Plan Area and Vision of the Gateway related to façade design, residential entries, 
massing and articulation, setbacks, step backs, height, and architectural styles and materials. 
TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS:
The Project is exempt from Vehicle Miles Travelled (VMT) analysis pursuant to AB 130, which establishes a statutory 
exemption for qualifying infill projects from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The Project’s eligibility under 
this exemption is discussed further below. 
The project was reviewed by staff, consistent with the General Plan, for compliance with the City’s Local Transportation 
Analysis Guidelines to address potential impacts to traffic operations. Trip generation data was provided by the applicant 
and peer reviewed by staff. The existing land use, including the convenience store and restaurants on site generates an 
estimated 124 trips in the AM peak hour, whereas the proposed residential creates an estimated 47 trips in the AM peak 
hour. For the PM peak hour, the existing land uses generate an estimated 140 trips, whereas the proposed residential use is 
estimated to generate only 50 trips5. Therefore, based on the difference between the existing and proposed land uses, the 
project will result in a net decrease in both AM and PM peak hour trips. Based on this analysis, the project is not expected 
to have significant impacts to local traffic operations. 
The initial Project submittal included two driveway entrances, one on South Delaware Street and another on South Eldorado 
Street. In accordance with Zoning Code Section 27.64.025, new driveway access on arterial streets is prohibited unless no 
other means of access is available. Therefore, the Project was redesigned to adjust the vehicular access to one driveway off 
of South Eldorado Street, which is a local street.
NOTICE PROVIDED:
All meeting noticing requirements were met. The Project was noticed per Section 27.08.050 of the Zoning Code, with mailed 
notices sent to owners and residents within 1,000 feet of the Project site, and City placards posted on the Project site 10 
days prior to the public hearing. In addition to the required noticing, public hearing information for the Project was included 
in an issue of the bi-weekly Planning E-newsletter circulated prior to the hearing date. 
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held a formal Neighborhood Informational Meeting on March 19, 2025, which was attended by approximately 
40 participants. The discussion and comments at the Neighborhood Informational Meeting included clarifying questions 
about the Project, which were answered by the developer, as well as public comments focused on concerns about parking 
adequacy, traffic and construction impacts, and the loss of existing businesses/retail. During the formal application review, 
no additional public comments were submitted to staff. Any public comments received after the publication of this report 
will be forward to the Planning Commission for review and consideration and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & 
Minutes Public Meeting Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.” 
FISCAL IMPACT:
As a new housing project filed under SB 330, the Project would be subject to several impact and in-lieu fees in effect at the 
time of the application filing date, including the ones listed below, which are assessed and collected prior to the issuance of 
building permits or occupancy6: 
 
5 Trip generation rates estimated from ITE 11th Edition.
6 The fees provided are estimates only. Actual fees paid may be higher or lower based on any permissible fee increase at the time of 
fee collection or credits the Project maybe eligible for.

--- page 8 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
Child Care Development Fee of approximately $432,000 to offset the impact on the need for future childcare space 
needs by new development
•
Park Impact Fee of approximately $2.37 million to offset the increased demands on park and recreation facilities 
serving new developments. 
•
Wastewater Capacity Charge of approximately $920,000 to recover a proportionate share of costs for existing and 
future wastewater system facilities and assets from new or expanded connections to City wastewater systems. 
•
School Impact Fees, charged at $4.94 per sq. ft. of residential area, to offset the increased demands on school 
facilities caused by new development. This is collected by the San Mateo Union High School District for all schools 
in San Mateo. 
•
Landscape Unit In-Lieu Fee of approximately $11,750, which is assessed for each Landscape Unit value not physically 
planted on-site or along street frontages. 
•
Public Art Fee in the amount of 1.19% of the total building valuation (excluding land acquisition and off-site 
improvement cost) in-lieu of providing on-site public art.
•
Transportation Improvement Fee of approximately $479,000 to fund citywide traffic improvements.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
In accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the Project meets the criteria to be statutorily exempt 
from further environmental review pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 21080.66. This exemption was enacted as a 
part of Assembly Bill 130 (AB130), effective as of June 30, 2025. The applicant has provided a memo detailing the Project’s 
qualification under AB130, included as Attachment 6. Staff have reviewed the eligibility criteria and determined that the 
Project meets the qualifying criteria under AB 130.
In accordance with Public Resources Code Section 21080.66(b)(1)(A), the City formally noticed Native American tribes for 
consultation regarding the Project and its potential impacts on tribal cultural resources. One tribe responded to the City’s 
notice to request consultation. The Project Conditions of Approval (Attachment 1, Exhibit A) include conditions required to 
satisfy requirements of AB 130 to avoid impacts to tribal cultural resources. In addition, consistent with Public Resources 
Code 21080.66(c), the Project Conditions of Approval include a requirement for the applicant to complete a phase I 
environmental assessment, and to mitigate any hazards as required per the statute. 
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Resolution with Findings
Att 1 Exhibit A – Conditions of Approval
Att 1 Exhibit B – Density Bonus Waivers
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans
Att 4 – Factual Data Sheet
Att 5 – Density Bonus Request Letter
Att 6 – AB130 CEQA Exemption Memo
STAFF CONTACT
Elizabeth Gagliardi, Associate Planner
egagliardi@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7206

--- page 9 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. 
 (2026)
A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO RECOMMEND THAT THE CITY COUNCIL APPROVE A 
PLANNING APPLICATION TO CONSTRUCT 128 RESIDENTIAL UNITS AND ASSOCIATED SITE IMPROVEMENTS, 
AND DETERMINE THAT THE PROJECT IS EXEMPT FROM FURTHER ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW UNDER 
CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT
WHEREAS, Prometheus Real Estate Group (herein referred to as the “Applicant”) submitted a Planning 
Application No. PA-2025-025 for a Site Plan and Architectural Review and Site Development Planning Application 
for construction of a new multi-family development with 128 rental residential units and associated off-street 
parking, landscaping and open space areas located 668 E 3rd Ave (collectively referred to as “Project”) in the City 
of San Mateo (“City”);
WHEREAS, the proposed Project is designated as Mixed-Use Medium II in the General Plan Land Use Plan, 
Zoned Central Business District Support (CBD/S) in the Zoning Ordinance, and located within Downtown Area Plan 
– Gateway Sub Area planning area;
WHEREAS, in fulfillment of the City’s Below Market Rate requirement pursuant to SMMC Section 
27.16.050, the Project is providing ten (10) rental units affordable to very-low income households, of which four 
are “urban one-bedroom" units, three are one-bedroom units, two are two-bedroom units, and one is a three-
bedroom unit. The project is additionally providing ten (10) rental units affordable to moderate income 
households pursuant to Government Code Section 65915 et. seq;
WHEREAS, the San Mateo Municipal Code (“SMMC”) Section 27.06.050 authorizes the City Council to take 
final action on Site Plan and Architectural Review for buildings that exceed the height limit in the General Plan;
WHEREAS, the Project is exempt from CEQA under Public Resource Code 21080.66, based on the findings 
listed below;
WHEREAS, the Project is consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 and other 
applicable policies;
WHEREAS, the Project is providing 15 percent of the units affordable to very-low income households, 
which allows the applicant to request up to three concessions and unlimited waivers from development 
standards pursuant to Government Code Section 65915(d). The Project does not request any concessions. A list 
of Project waivers is included as Exhibit B; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on February 10, 2026, duly 
noticed, at which all public comments were considered.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that:

--- page 10 ---
1.
The Planning Commission recommends approval of the Project to the City Council.
2.
The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the Project will not 
have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore statutory exempt from the 
provisions of CEQA under Public Resource Code Section 21080.66 (AB 130), as follows:
a.
The Project is consistent with the General Plan land use designation and all applicable General 
Plan policies as well as the applicable zoning designation of CBS/S;
b.
The Project site is located within the City of San Mateo on a Project site less than 20 acres 
(0.64 acres) that is surrounded by urban uses;
c.
The site has been previously developed with an urban use;
d.
The Project provides 200 dwelling units per acre, which exceeds one-half of the Housing 
Element’s default density threshold of 99 dwelling units per acre for accommodating lower-
income households.
e.
The Project is not located within a coastal zone, prime farmland or farmland of statewide 
importance, wetland, very high fire hazard severity zone, hazardous waste site, delineated 
earthquake fault zone, special flood hazard area, regulatory floodway, lands identified for 
conservation in an adopted natural community conservation plan, or habitat for protected 
species;
f.
The Project does not involve the demolition of a historic structure listed on a national, state, 
or local register prior to the application submittal;
g.
No portion of the Project is designated for use as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or 
other transient lodging;
h.
The Project is not located within 500 feet of the freeway;
i.
The Project completed tribal consultation pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 
21080.66(b)(1), with one tribe participating in the consultation process. Appropriate 
conditions are included in the Conditions of Approval to ensure the avoidance of impacts to 
cultural resources.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA AS 
FOLLOWS:
General Plan Conformance
3.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Land Use Element.
a.
Policy LU 1.1 Equitable Development. Prioritize development projects that meet social and 
economic needs of the economically vulnerable populations to address and reverse the 
underlying socioeconomic factors in the community that contribute to residential and social 
segregation in the city. Provide a range of housing types, sizes, and affordability levels in all 
San Mateo neighborhoods.
b.
Policy LU 3.1 Housing Diversity. Promote safe, attractive, and walkable residential 
neighborhoods with diverse types and sizes of homes for individuals, families, and households 
of all income levels.

--- page 11 ---


--- page 12 ---
The Project is consistent with the above Land Use Element policies by providing a diverse set of 
units ranging from studio to three-bedrooms, including 108 market-rate units and 20 affordable 
units for (10 for very-low income households and 10 for moderate income households), within 
one-half mile of the Downtown San Mateo Caltrain Station. The Project replaces a one-story 
commercial building with high-quality residential development that incorporates on-site 
amenities and open spaces. It also includes a range of bedroom configurations that support 
family-oriented living, including two- and three-bedroom units.
4.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Circulation Element.
a.
Policy C 3.2 Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development. Require new development 
projects to provide sidewalks and pedestrian ramps and to repair or replace damaged 
sidewalks, in addition to right-of-way improvements identified in adopted City master plans. 
Encourage new developments to include pedestrian-oriented design to facilitate pedestrian 
path of travel.
b.
Policy C 4.5 Bicycle Improvements. Require new developments to construct or contribute to 
improvements that enhance the cyclist experience, including bicycle lanes and bicycle 
parking.
The Project is consistent with the above Circulation Element policies by providing sidewalks and 
pedestrian path of travel in accordance with the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan. The Project 
incorporates street-level landscaping as well as a public open space with bench seating near the 
entry of the building. In addition, the Project provides both short-term and long-term bicycle 
parking.
5.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of Housing Element 2023-02031.
a.
Policy H 1.5 Encourage Family Housing. Prioritize creation of housing that addresses the 
needs of large families, providing greater housing choice.
b.
Policy H1.3 Increase Affordable Housing Production. Adopting an updated Density 
Bonus/Community Benefit Program that provides additional incentives and/or streamlining 
option for housing projects that provide additional affordable units or the most needed unit 
types (including those with special needs) beyond minimum State requirements.
c.
Policy H 1.12 Encourage Development of Missing Middle Housing.
The Project is consistent with the applicable Housing Element policies by providing family-sized 
housing, including units with two- and three-bedroom floor plans. The Project increases 
affordable housing production by providing 20 affordable units for (10 for very-low income 
households and 10 for moderate income households). In addition, the Project includes 128 total 
units, expanding housing options for a range of household sizes and income levels.
6.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Community Design and 
Historic Resources Element.
a.
Policy CD 3.2 Replacement Planting. Require appropriate replacement planting or payment 
of an in-lieu fee when protected trees on public or private property are removed.
b.
Policy CD 4.3 Tribal Consultation. Consult with Native American representatives, including 
through early coordination, to identify locations of importance to Native Americans, including 
archaeological sites, sacred sites, traditional cultural properties, and other types of tribal 
cultural resources. Respect tribal concerns if a tribe has a religious prohibition against 
revealing information about specific practices or locations.
c.
Policy CD 6.7 Public Open Space Design. Seek opportunities to establish public open spaces 
in new developments and new public buildings, and promote innovative and creative designs

--- page 13 ---


--- page 14 ---
to create exceptional, unique, and functional spaces. Require signage that clearly delineates 
these spaces as publicly accessible.
d.
Policy CD 7.3 Multifamily Design. Encourage architectural design of new multifamily 
developments that enhances a neighborhood’s visual and architectural character by providing 
context sensitive building and pedestrian-scale elements, high-quality materials and 
construction, open space, and resident amenities.
The Project provides in-lieu fees for protected trees proposed for removal and includes the 
installation of replacement trees in accordance with City requirements. Tribal consultation for the 
Project was completed, and appropriate conditions are included in the Conditions of Approval to 
ensure the avoidance of impacts to cultural resources. The Project incorporates on-site open 
space areas with amenities, including a ground level entry plaza, private balconies per unit, 
common open space amenity decks at the third and eighth stories, a fitness center, common 
room, and bicycle parking. In addition, the Project proposes a contemporary Mediterranean and 
Spanish-inspired architectural style that enhances neighborhood character and includes 
pedestrian-scale elements such as a seating area and landscaping, as well as resident-serving 
amenities.
Downtown Area Plan
a.
In conformance with Policy I.3, the Project proposes a well-designed contemporary building 
influenced by Mediterranean and Spanish Revival styles at an appropriate building scale and 
massing, which serves as a landmark entrance to the downtown core along 3rd Avenue from 
east of the railroad corridor. The Project also integrates sidewalks, street trees, landscaping 
and a public seating area to further enhance pedestrian activity along 3rd Avenue, Delaware 
Street, and Eldorado Street.
b.
In conformance with Policies II.7 and III.8, the Project includes pedestrian-scale improvements 
through new landscaping, bicycle parking, and street trees consistent with the Street Tree 
Master Plan.
c.
The Project conforms to Policy II.0, Housing in the Retail Core, by creating new housing units 
within close proximity to the downtown area and Caltrain station.
d.
The reduced setbacks, increased building height, and varied stepbacks the Project 
incorporates are allowed as waiver requests under State Density Bonus Law (California 
Government Code Section 665915).
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
1.
The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application and 
associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a.
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that:
i.
The design and massing of the proposed buildings are appropriately scaled and 
compatible with the existing surrounding uses, which include an existing four-story 
multifamily apartment building to the east, a proposed six-story mixed use building 
to the west, and commercial/office buildings to the south and north.
ii.
The Project proposes a high-quality, contemporary Mediterranean and Spanish-
Revival inspired design, incorporating materials and details emblematic of these

--- page 15 ---


--- page 16 ---
architectural styles that positively enhance the existing character of the 
neighborhood and surrounding area.
iii.
The Project provides site plan and landscape improvements that contribute to a 
welcoming and comfortable pedestrian experience, serving as an entry point to 
Downtown.
b.
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City in 
that:
i.
The Project has voluntarily included 76 off-street parking spaces, despite being 
exempted from minimum parking standards under State law, to accommodate 
expected demand for residential parking, in addition to implementing Transportation 
Demand Management measures through the C/CAG checklist.
ii.
The Project is consistent with the General Plan, Zoning Code, Downtown Area Plan, 
and the Multi-Family and Residential Mixed-Use Objective Design Standards, except 
where modifications are allowed under the State Density Bonus Law.
iii.
The Project is in conformance with the Bicycle Master Plan and the Citywide 
Pedestrian Master Plan.
c.
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that:
i.
The Project provides additional housing opportunities including affordable housing 
units and, as conditioned, would not result in any significant impacts to public health, 
safety, or welfare.
ii.
The Project will be constructed in compliance with all applicable building codes, fire 
codes, and the City’s building security requirements.
d.
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site, in that:
i.
The Project complies with applicable General Plan, Zoning Code, Downtown Area 
Specific Plan, and Objective Design Standards, subject to approval of the identified 
waivers under State Density Bonus Law. No violations of the Zoning Ordinance or 
Building Code were identified on the site. Therefore, the development meets all 
applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and City Council, 
conforms with the General Plan and other applicable plans and policies.
e.
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be 
required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of Approval, 
in that:

--- page 17 ---


--- page 18 ---
i.
The Project complies with the City’s Security Ordinance by providing a physical 
security plan and a site lighting plan through the Conditions of Approval, which are 
intended to promote crime prevention.
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)
The project grading activities are exempt from the requirements for Site Development Planning 
Application per San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.40.030(d)(1), as the excavations below finished 
grade proposed for this project are for building footings and a basement level parking structure within the 
footprint of the building. Therefore, the Site Development Planning Application review is limited to the 
major vegetation removal proposed.
All concerns regarding major vegetation removal have been addressed and the Site Development Planning 
Application (SMMC Section 23.40.040) and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the 
following findings and factors:
a.
Whether the natural landscape and major vegetation is unnecessarily scarred through the 
proposed grading or removal of vegetation;
i. The Project will not scar the natural landscape or major vegetation as a result of the 
proposed grading or vegetation removal.
b.
The report from the Project Arborist with respect to Protected Trees pursuant to SMMC 
Chapters 27.71 and 13.40;
i.
The Project will result in the removal of nine existing trees, of which four are 
considered protected trees. The removal of these trees is necessary to accommodate 
the development of the proposed Project. All trees will be removed and replaced with 
appropriate landscaping to both enhance the site and create necessary buffers 
between surrounding properties.
ii.All concerns regarding tree removal on the site have been addressed as conditions of 
approval requiring conformance to the City's landscape regulations, through the 
provision of new tree planting as shown on the project plans, and/or through the 
payment of a fee to the City’s tree planting fund.

--- page 19 ---


--- page 20 ---
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL 
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
620 E 3RD AVE, SAN MATEO, CA 94401-3305 
PARCEL # 034188140
AS APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of approval 
are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance. Additional 
language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of Building 
permits   include   Demolition,   Shoring/Excavation,   Foundation,   and   Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first, 
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE – All building permit plans, details, 
and subsequent construction shall substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and 
other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any proposed 
modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the 
Community Development Director, or their designee, prior to construction of the 
proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, or their designee, shall 
determine whether the proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved 
planning application, or whether a planning application modification is required to be 
submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section
27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)
2 BELOW MARKET RATE (BMR) AGREEMENT – Prior to the issuance of the building permit 
and in accordance with Municipal Code Section 27.16.050 and Resolution 131 (2010), the 
applicant shall enter into and record a BMR Affordability Restriction Agreement to provide 
BMR unit(s). The BMR unit(s) shall conform to all of the standards in Section VII of the 
BMR Guidelines as follows:
A. Have exterior design and appearance compatible with and substantially the same 
as market rate units within the project, including landscaping;
B. Be distributed throughout the development project as approved by the City;
C. Have similar access to the unit from the exterior as market rate units;
D. Contain proportionately the same number of bedrooms as market rate units;
E. Generally be of comparable size of similar market rate units;

--- page 21 ---


--- page 22 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 2 of 30
F.  Have access to all on-site amenities;
G. In phased development projects, be constructed proportionately in each phase; 
and
H. Interior unit amenities shall be, at minimum, UL or AGA-listed if amenities such as 
floor covering, appliances, and other fixtures differ from market rate units. The 
BMR Affordability Restriction Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction of the 
Housing Manager, or their designee.
The BMR unit distribution and locations shall be in conformance with the BMR unit 
exhibit included on Sheet G041 of the project plans, or as modified and approved at 
the discretion of the Community Development Director, or their designee. (PLANNING)
3 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be 
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING)
4 CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT PLAN - Prior to issuance of any permits, the applicant 
shall submit a Construction Management Plan (CMP) for review and approval by the 
Community Development Director or their designee. The CMP shall be implemented 
throughout all phases of construction and shall include, at a minimum, the following 
components:
•
Construction timeline (estimated) including major milestones
•
Construction Phasing Plan
•
Project 24-Hour Liaison and Disturbance Coordinator Name and Contact 
Information
•
Construction Sign as required in Pre-Construction Meeting Guide
•
Construction Hours Acknowledgment and Work Hour Waiver Requirements for 
Extended Operations (e.g. large concrete pours, crane hoists, etc.)
•
Winterization Plan (if excavation/grading will occur in wet season)
•
Documentation of Adjacent Street Condition (when applicable)
•
Traffic Control and Logistic Plan
•
Road or Sidewalk Closure Plan
•
Construction Hauling Routes
•
Construction Worker Parking Location and Agreements
•
Construction Materials and Equipment Staging Plan
•
Construction Equipment List including compliance with applicable Air Quality and 
Emission Regulations
•
Erosion and Dust Control Plan
•
Vibration Monitoring Plan
•
Construction Noise Mitigation Plan

--- page 23 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 2 of 30

--- page 24 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 3 of 30
•
Vector Control Plan
A full list of requirements for this document can be found within the construction 
management plan guide available on the City website. Any modification to the 
approved CMP throughout the construction process shall be subject to review and 
approval by the Community Development Director or their designee (PLANNING)
5 EXCAVATED SOILS – The applicant shall submit a compliance letter from San Mateo 
County Environmental Health Services to the Planning Division subject to the satisfaction 
of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. The compliance letter shall 
indicate that site soils have been tested prior to disposal to confirm that the concentration 
of constituents present in site soils do not exceed hazardous waste criteria of local, state 
and federal regulations. If the concentration of constituents in the project site soils exceed 
hazardous waste criteria, the letter shall also confirm that the soils will be disposed of in 
accordance with local, state, and federal regulations. (PLANNING)
6 PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay all 
outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING)
7 PHASE I ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT - Pursuant to Government Code Section 
21080.66(c)(1)(A), the development proponent shall complete a Phase I environmental 
assessment, as defined in Section 78090 of the Health and Safety Code.
a. If a recognized environmental condition is found, the development proponent shall 
complete a preliminary endangerment assessment, as defined in Section 78095 of 
the Health and Safety Code, prepared by an environmental assessor to determine 
the existence of any release of a hazardous substance on the site and to determine 
the potential for exposure of future occupants to significant health hazards from 
any nearby property or activity.
b. If a release of a hazardous substance is found to exist on the site, the release shall 
be removed, or any effects of the release shall be mitigated to levels required by 
current federal and state statutory and regulatory standards before the local 
government issues a certificate of occupancy.
c.
If a potential for exposure to significant hazards from surrounding properties or 
activities is found to exist, the effects of the potential exposure shall be mitigated 
to levels required by current federal and state statutory and regulatory standards
before the local government issues a certificate of occupancy. (PLANNING)

--- page 25 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 3 of 30

--- page 26 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 4 of 30
8 SACRED LANDS INVENTORY - Prior to issuance of any construction permit, a Sacred Lands
Inventory request shall be submitted to the Native American Heritage Commission, at the 
expense of the project applicant. (PLANNING)
9 TRIBAL CULTURAL RECORDS SEARCH - Prior to issuance of any construction permit, a 
California Historical Resources Information System archaeological records search and a 
tribal cultural records search shall be completed for the project site, at the expense of the 
project applicant. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
10 ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT – The applicant shall submit an address assignment application for 
the proposed project, subject to the review and approval by the Building Division. The 
Address Assignment Form is available at 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/98206/CDD-Address-
Assignment-Application-Form  (BUILDING)
11 APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans shall 
demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes and local 
amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the building permit 
application. (BUILDING)
12 BAAQMD JOB NUMBER – The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and 
renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management District. 
(BAAQMD). (BUILDING)
13 PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE FOR LARGE PROJECTS- A pre-construction conference 
shall be held at a time and location agreed upon by the City and applicant for the purpose 
of reviewing Conditions of Approval and construction-site procedures. The applicant shall 
be represented by his design and construction staffs, which include any sub-contractors. 
Departments having conditions of approval for the project will represent the City. This 
meeting shall be held prior to issuance of the Demolition Permit, Building Permit or Site 
Development Permit, and shall be satisfied prior to issuance of whichever permit is issued
first. (BUILDING)

--- page 27 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 4 of 30

--- page 28 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 5 of 30
14 SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a Land
Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be limited to: 
location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and easements, existing 
buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other structures. (BUILDING)
15 SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, 
signed, and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and 
integrate recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the 
Building Official or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped and 
signed by the Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and specifications 
substantially conform to the recommendations in the soil report, subject to the 
satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
16 FIRE FLOW – The applicant shall provide fire flow information to the Fire Plan Checker, 
which is subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)
Public Works Department (PA)
17 CHARGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS SERVICES – Prior to plan checking, the applicant shall be 
required to pay associated fees per the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
Public Works plan checking of the plans submitted with the building permit plans cannot 
proceed until the fee is paid. (PUBLIC WORKS)
18 ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – For any work within the Public 
Right of Way or Public Easement, the applicant shall obtain an encroachment permit, 
posting the required bonds and insurance prior to any work being done. Encroachment 
Permit fees shall be paid prior to review of the encroachment permit plans and based on 
the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule.. (PUBLIC WORKS)
19 GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – The project plans shall include grading and drainage 
plans that identify the vertical elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading 
plans shall show existing topo and features at least 20’ beyond the project boundary. Plan 
shall show existing topography, label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, 
slopes, and all other property encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 29 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 5 of 30

--- page 30 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 6 of 30
20 POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) SCREENING ASSESSMENT FORM – As per
Stormwater Municipal Regional Permit requirements and San Mateo Municipal Code 
Chapter 7.39, Demolition Permit Applicants shall complete the PCBs Screening Assessment 
Form located here: https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/160/Demolition-Requirements The 
Form shall be reviewed and approved by the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
21 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PERMIT – The applicant shall comply with the 
Stormwater Pollution Prevention (STOPPP), per SMMC Section 7.39.170. The project plans 
shall include an erosion and sediment control plan. The first STOPPP inspection shall occur 
prior to starting any work. The applicant shall pay STOPPP fees in effect at the time of 
building permit submittal. (PUBLIC WORKS)
22 TIE-BACK AGREEMENT – If the shoring system required to perform the excavation for the 
project includes tie-backs that encroach into the public right-of-way, the Applicant shall 
execute and record the City's standard tie-back agreement prior to the issuance of the 
shoring building permit. (PUBLIC WORKS)
CDD Arborist (PA)
23 LANDSCAPE UNIT IN LIEU FEES - Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the applicant 
shall pay in-lieu fees for existing trees to be removed as evaluated in the Tree Evaluation 
Schedule and Required Tree Planting form during the planning application.
Existing trees to be removed shall be replaced on-site, or a fee shall be paid in lieu of 
planting trees at the rate established in the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
(CDD Arborist)
24 STREET TREES – The landscape plans shall specify installation of street trees in accordance 
with the City of San Mateo Street Tree Master Plan. In accordance with Municipal Code 
Section 27.71.120, street trees shall be planted at a spacing not to exceed thirty (30) feet 
except to allow for utilities, street furnishings, driveways, or other features necessary to 
ensure public safety, as approved by the City Arborist.
24-inch box shall be the minimum size for street trees planted along public streets and
shall include tree grates and root barriers as specified by the City Standard Drawings 3-1-
847 and 3-1-933.

--- page 31 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 6 of 30

--- page 32 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 7 of 30
The landscape plans shall be subject to the review and approval of the Community
Development Director or their designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE.
Planning Division (PA)
25 CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE – (use for projects with new dwelling units and/or new 
commercial floor area) The applicant shall pay a Child Care Development Fee subject to 
the rate established in the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. (PLANNING)
26 EXTERIOR ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS - In compliance with General Plan Policy N 1.3, the 
applicant shall provide an acoustical analysis prepared by a qualified acoustical consultant 
for new multifamily common open space for residents that have an exterior noise level of 
60 dBA (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure N-2 of the General Plan. The applicant
shall incorporate necessary mitigation measures into residential project design to 
minimize common open space noise levels. Maximum exterior noise should not exceed 65 
dBA (Ldn) for residential uses.(PLANNING)
27 INTERIOR ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS - In compliance with General Plan Policy N 1.2, the 
applicant shall provide an acoustical analysis prepared by a qualified acoustical consultant 
which shall contain recommendations to ensure the building’s interior noise levels comply 
with the levels established in the General Plan or Building Code, whichever is more 
restrictive, subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. (PLANNING)
28 LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT – All
screening for any ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related 
operational/utility devices shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial 
conformance with the approved planning application. All above ground utilities and 
equipment shall be screened with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or their designee. (PLANNING)
29 MECHANICAL VENTILATION – All exterior mechanical ventilation designs for subterranean 
garages shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the 
approved planning application. All mechanical ventilation shall be incorporated into the

--- page 33 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 7 of 30

--- page 34 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 8 of 30
building design or landscaped areas and be screened to the satisfaction of the Community
Development Director, or their designee. (PLANNING)
30 SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical equipment 
shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the approved 
planning application. All equipment shall be painted and/or screened by a solid enclosure 
or parapet wall with materials compatible with the building design subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or their designee. (PLANNING)
31 SIGNAGE – Preliminary signage shown in the approved planning application plans are for 
information only. Final signage shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with Title 25 
of the Municipal Code. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
32 CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen Checklist 
noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in accordance with the 
California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo Reach Codes subject to 
the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her designee. Current City of San 
Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building Division webpage or will be provided 
by Community Development Department staff, if requested. (BUILDING)
33 WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed Water 
Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates the project is 
subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant to Municipal Code 
Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the screening form shall also 
be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water Conservation in Landscaping 
forms are located on Building Division webpage. The applicant shall submit the required 
landscape documentation package with building permit application subject to the review 
and satisfaction of the Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
34 CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that all 
construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit submittal. 
The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or
his/her designee. (FIRE)

--- page 35 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 8 of 30

--- page 36 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 9 of 30
35 FIRE CONTROL ROOM – The plans shall show a fire control room with direct access from
the exterior of the building subject to the requirements listed in the Fire Department’s 
local Ordinance and subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE)
36 FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire 
systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in 
conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. The 
plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)
37 REMOTE POWER DISCONNECT – The plans shall show a key switch/shunt trip to 
disconnect the building electrical power and/or solar photovoltaic system by Fire 
Department personnel. The key switch/shunt trip location(s) shall be subject to the review 
and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
38 PARK IN-LIEU/IMPACT FEES – The applicant shall pay a Park Impact fee SMMC (13.05.070) 
or a fee in-lieu of dedicating lands for park and recreation purposes (park In-Lieu fee 
(SMMC 26.64). The final fee shall be determined by applying factors per dwelling 
structure type as outlined in the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. [PARKS].
Police Department (PA)
39 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS – The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show compliance with Security Code SMMC “23.54.020 CITY 
COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS – HIGH RISE BUILDINGS”, by providing for the following 
allowances for the placement of emergency communications equipment on the building 
permit plans:
A. Enough enclosed space for the equivalent of one dedicated server rack in a locked 
server room that is clean, dry, and well-ventilated (this does not need to be a fire 
control room);
B. One 4” conduit from the designated server rack through the roof. The conduit 
shall be provided with wide radius bends, a weatherhead on the roof, and a pull
string and ring;

--- page 37 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 9 of 30

--- page 38 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 10 of 30
C. Authorization to mount antennas on the roof. The maximum allowable distance
from the designated server rack to the antenna mounting location shall be 100 
feet;
D. One 20 amp, 120 VAC dedicated electrical circuit on the building's emergency 
generator. An uninterruptable power supply (UPS) may be installed by the City if 
the building is not provided with an emergency generator;
E. 12 copper cable pairs to the building's main telephone terminal; and,
F. Ground buss bar bonded to the building grounding system.
This requirement is in addition to the requirement of the California Fire Code to 
supply a functional emergency responder radio coverage system. (POLICE)
40 RESIDENTIAL PARKING GARAGE SECURITY – The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show:
A. Restricted access to the parking garage with electrically operated closures to allow 
passage of motor vehicles at all times. The closures, whether overhead, sliding or 
swinging shall be provided with reopening devices which will function to stop and 
reopen the closure in case the closure is obstructed when closing. Openings into 
the garage which are not for vehicular or human passage shall be provided with 
security grilles or screens.
B. Digital keypads shall be provided to allow for entry by services and emergency 
services vehicles into the garages at all times. Exterior doors or gates providing 
access into the secure areas of the parking garage shall remain locked at all times, 
and shall only be accessible through the use of keys, key fob or remote keyless 
entry system devices furnished to the building residents. Pedestrian access points 
exiting out of garage shall also be accessible through the use of keys furnished to 
the building residents and shall be equipped with self-closing devices. All storage, 
maintenance, and trash rooms within parking garages shall have doors which 
cannot be locked from the inside, and that close and lock quickly and automatically 
upon exit.
C. Parking spaces shall not be numbered to coincide with interior unit numbers.
D. Lighting in the parking garage shall be in conformance with the Security Ordinance 
as it applies to SITE LIGHTING. No dark areas shall exist inside the parking garage 
(POLICE)
41 SECURED BUILDING ACCESS BY EMERGENCY PERSONNEL – The building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show the detailed specifications for and the installation of 
telephone entry pads (TEPs) and/or wireless “click to enter” systems at the main exterior

--- page 39 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 10 of 30

--- page 40 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 11 of 30
building entrance(s) and parking garage entrance(s) for secured buildings. These access
systems must allow emergency personnel to access all levels of the interior of the building. 
The access systems must also be installed at exterior gate locations that lead to secured 
areas of the site, such as interior courtyards. Access system placement location is subject 
to the review and approval of the Chief of Police or his/her designee, prior to the approval 
of the first building permit for the project. Police access codes shall be as provided by the 
Chief of Police or his/her designee at the time of installation. (POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
42 DEDICATIONS – The applicant or owner shall dedicate a 4.5 foot wide strip of land along 
the frontage of Delaware Street for pedestrian access purposes. (PUBLIC WORKS)
43 DRAINAGE – The building permit plans show drainage designed into landscaping with the 
purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to the extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard Drawings shall be 
provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and through the curb. No increase to the 
peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge shall conform to any 
non point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality Control Board. Drainage 
improvements made on-site shall conform to standard engineering practices and shall not 
allow any site drainage to impact adjacent properties. All drainage capacity calculations 
shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall 
appear on the calculations sheets and shall be submitted to the City for review and 
approval with the project civil plans submitted as part of the building permit for the 
superstructure. Projects that include permanent structural controls for stormwater 
treatment, shall comply with requirements of Section C.3 of the Municipal Regional 
Stormwater Permit for San Mateo County (MRP). The O&M (operation and maintenance) 
procedures for such control features shall be submitted for review and approval prior to 
occupancy and specify the owner’s responsibility to ensure their ongoing effective 
operation and maintenance. Such O&M responsibility requirements shall be recorded with 
the County of San Mateo Recorder’s Office. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show drainage. (PUBLIC WORKS)
44 GARBAGE/RECYCLE/COMPOSTING STORAGE AND SERVICE – The applicant shall provide an 
adequate area for the purposes of storing garbage, recycling, composting collection 
containers for scheduled servicing by the franchise solid waste collection service. The 
containers shall be placed at the service location allowing enough room for the truck to

--- page 41 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 11 of 30

--- page 42 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 12 of 30
safely approach the containers. The collection containers shall be brought to the service
area and returned to the storage enclosure by the property owner. The containers are not 
to be in public view or in the public right-of-way prior to, or beyond the scheduled service 
times. An approved letter from the City’s franchise solid waste collection service provider 
stating that service is available to the project as designed has been received. Any revisions 
made to the approved letter shall be reflected in the building permit plans. The building 
permit plans for the superstructure shall show garbage and recycling areas. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
45 INITIAL STORM AND SANITARY SEWER ASSESSMENT – The applicant shall perform an 
initial inspection (via remote TV camera) of the mainline storm and sanitary sewer from 
the nearest upstream structure to the nearest downstream structure of the project’s point 
of connections. During the initial inspection, any damage must be reported to the 
Department of Public Works. The applicant shall perform the same inspection once 
construction is completed. Damage in result of this project’s construction shall be repaired 
by the applicant at their expense. (PUBLIC WORKS)
46 PARKING STALLS OR LOTS – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall include 
all required off street parking stalls or lots, showing proper grading, drainage, ramps 
profile, and parking dimensions in conformance with City parking standards. Drainage 
should be directed to adjacent landscaping wherever possible. (PUBLIC WORKS)
47 PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall not locate any foundations, fences, walls, 
stairs, railings, ramps, or other permanent structures within the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
48 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public improvements shall be 
completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for removal 
and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of developer's 
operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works Construction 
Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions.
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right of 
way or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear

--- page 43 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 12 of 30

--- page 44 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 13 of 30
on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure building 
permit submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning application. Any 
changes to the improvements shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee at their sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria shall be submitted. 
Project specifications shall be included for review. All work shown on the improvement 
plans shall be inspected and approved by Public Works.
The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show the following public 
improvements in the public right of way:
a. STREET MARKINGS – The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a 
material and design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and 
replace any that are damaged during construction. These include but are not 
limited to all pavement markings, painted curbs and handicap markings. All 
permanent pavement markings shall be thermoplastic. Color and location of 
painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject to approval by the Director 
of Public Works or designee. Any existing painted curb or pavement markings no 
longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, sand blasting if in 
paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews to mark any 
red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City seal.
b. SIDEWALK – The applicant shall replace all sidewalk fronting the project site with
A.5. Sidewalk Standards – Residential Type C New Development from the City’s 
Pedestrian Master Plan. Sidewalk replacement shall be constructed per current 
City Standard. Sidewalks fronting the project property must comply to Americans 
with Disabilities Act (ADA) standards.
c.
CURB RAMPS – The applicant shall construct curb ramp(s) in accordance with 
CalTrans Standard Plan A88A at Delaware Street & 3rd Avenue and Eldorado Street 
& 3rd Avenue. The actual ramp "Case" shall be identified on the plans and shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee.
d. CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all curb 
and gutter surrounding the project site. New curb and gutter shall be constructed 
per current City Standard, or as otherwise shown on the approved plan set.
e. VALLEY GUTTER – The applicant shall remove and replace to existing City standards 
any valley gutter that is damaged now or during construction of this project. New 
valley gutter shall be constructed per current City Standard. Doweling shall be 
provided, to prevent vertical deflection, into any abutting curb and gutter sections.

--- page 45 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 13 of 30

--- page 46 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 14 of 30
f.
DRIVEWAY APPROACH – The applicant shall install City Standard (Commercial or 
Residential) driveway approach(es) as shown on the approved plans.
g. SEWER LATERAL – The applicant shall install as a minimum a six (6) inch City 
Standard sewer lateral connection from the property line to the sewer main 
located in the street right of way. The installation shall be done in accordance with 
City Standard Drawings.
h. SANITARY SEWER MANHOLES – The applicant shall install standard sanitary sewer 
manholes on Delaware Street, per approved plans and in accordance with City 
Standard Drawings.
i.
STORM MANHOLES – The applicant shall install standard storm manholes on 
Delaware Street, per approved plans and in accordance with City Standard 
Drawings.
j.
STORM WATER CATCH BASIN(S) – Where applicable, the applicant shall install 
standard storm water catch basins, per approved plans and in accordance with City 
Standard Drawings.
k. SIDEWALK UNDERDRAIN(S) – Where applicable, the applicant shall install standard 
sidewalk underdrains in accordance with City Standard Drawings.
l.
GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE – In accordance with SMMC Chapter 7.39, the applicant 
shall install and maintain green infrastructure (GI) improvements. The 
improvements shall be in accordance with the guidance and specifications 
provided by San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program or City of 
San Mateo GI Plan design and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee. Drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a 
licensed Civil Engineer, whose signed Engineer’s stamp shall appear on the 
calculations sheets, and shall be submitted to the City for review and approval with 
the project superstructure plans. GI improvements shall be maintained by the 
adjacent property owner and included in the stormwater treatment O&M 
(operation and maintenance) agreement that is recorded with the County of San 
Mateo Recorder’s Office. (PUBLIC WORKS)
Applicant shall provide green infrastructure to the maximum extent as determined by the 
Public Works Director or designee at their sole direction, to treat storm water runoff from 
frontage and public ROW. Sizing and design shall conform to San Mateo Countywide

--- page 47 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 14 of 30

--- page 48 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 15 of 30
Water Pollution Prevention Program City of San Mateo GI Plan design templates and 
technical guidance and be approved by the Director. Single family homes that are not part 
of a subdivision may be exempt. Frontages on State ROW are also excluded.
m. TRAFFIC SIGNAL INFRASTRUCTURE – The applicant shall be responsible for 
updating the traffic signal at the easterly corner of the Delaware Street & 3rd 
Avenue intersection to the latest standards and requirements. The applicant shall 
submit all necessary traffic signal design plans, including pole and conductor 
schedules where necessary, to the Director of Public Works or designee for review 
and approval as part of the Building Permit for the Superstructure. The plans shall 
show all traffic signal equipment upgrades to comply with latest California Manual 
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD), Caltrans, and City standards 
requirements. Improvements shall include, but are not limited to accessible 
pedestrian signals (APS) and pushbuttons (PPB), emergency vehicle preemption 
signal equipment, video detection equipment, 12” LED signal diodes, intersection 
PTZ camera, signal head backplates, internally illuminated street name signs, traffic 
signal interconnect or fiber optic communications. APS upgrades shall be installed 
on all corners of the Delaware Street & 3rd Avenue intersection.
During construction, the applicant shall provide equipment submittals, signal 
timing and/or configuration changes, and testing documentation to the Director of 
Public Works or designee or designee for review and approval prior to installation. 
The developer shall be responsible for development and implementation of any 
new required signal timing. Where traffic signals within the City of San Mateo 
right-of-way are owned by other agencies, the developer shall be responsible for 
obtaining all necessary approvals and permits and pay all fees associated with 
bringing the traffic signal up to latest standards and requirements.
n. STREET LIGHT(S) AND INFRASTRUCTURE – The applicant shall furnish and install 
necessary infrastructure in accordance with the photometric analysis prepared as 
part of the approved planning application. The streetlight and electrical plans shall 
show all electrical conduits, pull boxes, service connections, fuse holders, bus fuses 
and all other electrical components necessary to construct the improvements. The 
plans shall be submitted as part of the Building Permit for the Superstructure.
If any changes to streetlight locations or quantities are proposed during the 
building permit phase, a new photometric analysis shall be prepared by the 
applicant for review and approval by the Director of Public Works or designee and

--- page 49 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 15 of 30

--- page 50 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 16 of 30
the lighting shall be furnished and installed in accordance with the new
photometric analysis as approved. (PUBLIC WORKS)
49 SEPARATE WATER METERS – When a development includes multiple uses, there shall be a 
separate water meter for each development use. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show the separate water meters. (PUBLIC WORKS)
50 STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans shall show the 
marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, on all storm inlets 
surrounding and within the project site using methods approved by the City standards, 
consistent with the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program’s C.3 
requirements (PUBLIC WORKS)
51 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT FEE – The applicant shall pay a fee proportional to the 
project's share of transportation improvements needed to serve cumulative development 
within the City of San Mateo, as established by San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 27.13. 
The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of 
the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the City’s adopted 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule. . (PUBLIC WORKS)
52 TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The building permits shall show installation of trash capture 
devices in storm drain systems that lead directly to the off-site storm drain system or 
outfall. Devices shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee. 
Trash capture devices are required on site consistent with the State Water Resources 
Control Board definition of Full Capture System. All on-site trash capture devices shall be 
cleaned routinely and maintained by the Owner per the Stormwater Treatment Facilities 
Maintenance Agreement. The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show 
trash capture devices. (PUBLIC WORKS)
53 TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – Per the approved plan set, the building permit plans for 
the superstructure shall show 6' red curb on both sides of the driveway. The building 
permit plans for the superstructure shall show that the installation of landscaping and 
permanent structures located within the 25’ triangular area of visibility at any project 
corner meets the requirements of a minimum vertical clearance of 7', and/or are less than 
3' in height. This includes all PG&E above ground structures and other utility facilities.
(PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 51 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 16 of 30

--- page 52 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 17 of 30
54 UNDERGROUND (OR COVERED) PARKING GARAGE DRAINAGE – The building permit plans
for the superstructure shall show that water from the underground (or covered) parking 
garage shall not be discharged onto the public street. The applicant shall direct discharge 
from covered or underground garage to the City's sanitary sewer system. Stormwater 
runoff from the roof or other exposed areas of the project shall not discharge to these 
garage drains. The design shall be done by a licensed Civil Engineer who shall provide 
hydraulic calculations and drawings subject to the approval of the Director of Public Works 
or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)
55 UNDERGROUND UTILITY SERVICES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, 
electric power, and other communications lines underground to the building in 
accordance with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and switch 
gear cabinets shall be placed in accordance with the approved plan set. (PUBLIC WORKS)
56 UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different type 
of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both existing and proposed public and private 
utilities.
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground electrical, 
gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables including the 
size, location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility service stubs and 
meters and placements or arrangements of junction structures.
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic rated 
boxes and lids.
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the project 
frontage by potholing. Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an encroachment 
permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval. Developer shall provide 
the pothole results to the Director of Public Works or designee or designee prior to final 
design. Any utility conflicts shall be the responsibility of the developer to rectify. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)

--- page 53 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 17 of 30

--- page 54 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 18 of 30
57 WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE – A wastewater capacity charge, as established by San
Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.065, is imposed on all new development to recover a 
proportionate share of costs for existing and future wastewater system facilities and 
assets from new or expanded connections to City wastewater systems. The applicable 
wastewater capacity charge is determined by use, wastewater flow, and wastewater 
strength loadings and the amount shall be established by City Council resolution. The fee 
shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior to issuance of the first 
superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the City’s adopted 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule. (PUBLIC WORKS)
58 WILL SERVE LETTER FOR WATER – A Will Serve Letter from the water company shall be 
supplied to the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY,
whichever occurs first.
Planning Division (PA)
59 ACOUSTICAL COMPLIANCE LETTER – The applicant shall submit an acoustical compliance 
letter to the Project Planner written and signed by the project acoustical consultant 
indicating all recommendations incorporated into the project to reach compliance with 
the noise limits listed in Tables N-1 of the Noise Element and in compliance with Policies 
N1.2 and N 1.3 of the General Plan. This letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the 
Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING)
60 ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall meet all requirements of SMMC Section 23.60 
for art in public places by providing artwork approved by the Civic Arts Commission in a 
manner satisfactory to the Community Development Director, and/or by paying an in lieu 
fee to the Art in Public Places Fund as described in SMMC Section 23.60.060. (PLANNING)
61 LANDSCAPE VERIFICATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a landscape verification 
letter to the Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the project landscape 
architect indicating that all on-site and off-site landscape improvements (including on-site 
trees, street trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been installed in compliance with 
the approved landscape plans. This letter shall be submitted prior to scheduling the 
Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING)

--- page 55 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 18 of 30

--- page 56 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 19 of 30
62 PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, the
applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final inspection for 
verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. The applicant shall 
contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in 
advance of the requested inspection. (PLANNING)
Fire Department (PA)
63 EMERGENCY RESPONDER RADIO COVERAGE – An Emergency Responder Radio Coverage 
system may be required for this project. Testing shall occur during construction due to 
circuit protection requirements that will affect building design. The applicant shall provide 
a third-party testing grid report to the Fire Department subject to the review and approval 
by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE)
64 FIRE HYDRANTS – The applicant shall install the approved number of public/private fire 
hydrant(s) spaced as per the Fire Department’s local Ordinance. All fire hydrants used for 
fire flow for the project site shall be upgraded to a Clow model 960 or equivalent 
consisting of (2) 2-½ inch and (1) 4-½ inch outlets. Each hydrant shall be capable of 
providing a minimum fire flow of 1500 gpm at 20 psi residual pressure. Water supply for 
fire protection is required to be installed in accordance with water purveyor’s 
specifications. The water supply shall be tested, flushed and approved operable prior to 
any combustible construction materials being placed on the site. Staged construction shall 
ensure that the necessary water supply is maintained from stage to stage in the 
construction planning. The letter shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee for review and approval prior to the Fire Final Inspection. (FIRE)
Public Works Department (PA)
65 RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit one full set of original record drawings 
and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the Department of Public 
Works. All underground facilities shall be shown on the record drawings as constructed in 
the field. The applicant shall also provide the City with an electronic copy of the as-builts 
in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the City at the time of completion of the 
work. (PUBLIC WORKS)
66 RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – Due to the anticipated project’s truck traffic, the applicant 
shall grind and overlay with 2 inches of asphalt concrete of the roadways anticipated to be 
damaged as a result of construction activities within the general area of the project or

--- page 57 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 19 of 30

--- page 58 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 20 of 30
along the designated haul route. If the street abutting the property has been classified as
being in a failed condition or a Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of 50 or below, the 
applicant shall reconstruct the street. Limits of the roadway repair shall be subject to the 
review and approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)
67 STORM WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The applicant shall
execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of Public Works or designee as 
specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39 of the Stormwater Management and 
Discharge Control ordinance and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program C.3 Program Technical Guidance. The agreement shall outline the continuous 
operation and maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent storm water treatment 
facilities including irrigation and landscape maintenance of Green Infrastructure elements 
constructed in the public right-of-way and shall be recorded with the County Recorder’s 
Office. This agreement shall be executed prior to the first occupancy of the building. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
68 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) CHECKLIST – The property owner shall 
ensure compliance with the San Mateo County Congestion Management Program Land 
Use Implementation Policy (C/CAG TDM Policy). Specifically, the property owner shall 
ensure that the measures identified in the approved C/CAG TDM Checklist appended to 
this application are implemented over the life of the project, and that the property owner 
and tenants acknowledge the requirement to participate in the periodic monitoring and 
reporting requirements identified in the C/CAG TDM Policy. Accordingly, it is 
recommended that the property owner and/or developer clearly identify these TDM 
provisions and responsibilities in any sales and/or lease or sublease transactions. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT.
Planning Division (PA)
69 CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT PLAN COMPLIANCE - The applicant shall implement and 
remain in full compliance with the approved Construction Management Plan throughout 
all phases of construction. All construction activities shall be conducted in a manner 
consistent with the approved plan. Any deviation from, or modification to the approved 
Construction Management Plan shall require prior review and approval by the Community 
Development Director or their designee. Consistent with the requirements of the CMP,
construction disturbances reports shall be submitted monthly to provide timely updates

--- page 59 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 20 of 30

--- page 60 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 21 of 30
on project impacts.
Violations of any portion of the approved Construction Management Plan or other 
applicable construction management requirement may result in the issuance of a “Stop 
Work Order”. (PLANNING)
70 FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to the 
installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the Project 
Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not limited to, 
window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact the Project 
Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested 
inspection. (PLANNING)
71 PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of paleontological 
resources (fossils) whether on-site or in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall halt all 
construction activities within 50 feet of the discovery, notify the Planning Manager and/or 
Project Planner, and retain a qualified paleontologist to determine the significance of the 
discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of the find, prepare a written 
report documenting the find and recommending further courses of action, and submit a 
summary of findings to the Project Planner. The applicant shall incorporate the 
recommendations of the paleontologist when continuing construction. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
72 CONSTRUCTION WORK HOURS – Construction shall occur only between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on 
Saturday, and between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. on Sundays and holidays. These hours 
do not apply to construction that takes place inside a completely enclosed building and 
does not exceed the exterior ambient noise level as measured 10 feet from the exterior 
property lines. The applicant shall conform to the construction work hours to control 
traffic congestion, noise, and dust unless an exemption is granted in accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 23.06.061. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
73 ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each 
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access road. 
(FIRE)

--- page 61 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 21 of 30

--- page 62 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 22 of 30
74 BARRICADES ACROSS EMERGENCY ACCESS ROADS – Prior to the installation or use of
barricades, fences, or gates across emergency vehicle access roads during construction, 
the applicant submit plans to the Fire Plan Checker subject to the review and approval of 
the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)
75 DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 during 
all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)
76 EGRESS – The applicant shall maintain required egress for all adjacent 
buildings/properties. (FIRE)
77 STANDPIPES – For projects that require standpipes by California Fire Code Section 905.3.1, 
the applicant shall provide not less than one standpipe for use during construction or 
demolition. (FIRE)
Public Works Department (PA)
78 ARCHITECTURAL COPPER – Per the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program’s requirements, the applicant shall follow the specific best management practices 
for the installation of the Architectural Copper. For detailed information please distribute 
the flyer to all construction personnel involved in the fabrication and installation of the 
Architectural Copper that is located at: https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-
stormwater-pollution/with-new-redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ (PUBLIC 
WORKS/BUILDING)
79 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – The applicant shall perform all construction 
activities in accordance with the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control 
Rules and Regulations (SMMC 7.39), and the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution 
Prevention Plan (SMCWPPP) by reference. Detailed information can be located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ (PUBLIC WORKS)
80 CONSTRUCTION WORKER PARKING – The applicant shall provide a construction-parking 
plan that minimizes the effect of construction worker parking in the neighborhood and 
shall include an estimate of the number of workers that will be present on the site during

--- page 63 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 22 of 30

--- page 64 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 23 of 30
the various phases of construction and indicate where sufficient off-street parking will be
utilized and identify any locations for off-site material deliveries. Said plan shall be 
approved by the Director of Public Works or designee prior to issuance of City permits and 
shall be complied with at all times during construction. Failure to enforce the parking plan 
may result in suspension of the City permits. (PUBLIC WORKS)
81 GROUND WATER DISCHARGE – In accordance with the Director of Public Works 
Groundwater Discharge Policy, discharge of contaminated groundwater to the sanitary 
sewer is only allowed on a temporary basis and will not be permitted for a period greater 
than 6 months. Discharges for longer than 6 months shall obtain an NPDES permit from 
the State Water Board to discharge to the storm drain system. Discharge of 
uncontaminated groundwater to the storm drain is permissible if the applicant can 
provide analytical data to support the claim. No discharge to the storm drain shall be 
allowed without prior approval from the Public Works Department. All discharges to the 
sanitary sewer (contaminated and uncontaminated) require a Waste Discharge Permit and 
shall comply with the City’s discharge limits. (PUBLIC WORKS)
82 HOLIDAY CONSTRUCTION MORATORIUM – Due to concerns for businesses within the 
vicinity of Hillsdale Mall and within the Downtown area during the holiday season 
(Monday prior to Thanksgiving to January 1), there shall be no construction activities 
within the right-of-way which would create lane closures, eliminate parking, create 
pedestrian detours, or other activities that may create a major disturbance as determined 
by the Director of Public Works or designee. Exceptions to this condition shall be made in 
writing to the Public Works Director or designee. For Hillsdale Shopping Center, the 
construction prohibition streets shall include Hillsdale Boulevard between U.S. 101 and SR 
92, 31st Avenue between El Camino Real and Hacienda Street, and Edison Street and 
Hacienda Street in the vicinity of the shopping center. For purposes of this condition, the 
limits of the Downtown area shall be defined as: between El Camino Real on the west and 
Delaware Street on the east, Tilton Avenue on the north, and Fifth Avenue on the south. 
The prohibition shall also include the 3rd and 4th Avenue corridors between Delaware 
Street and U.S. 101. (PUBLIC WORKS)
83 MATERIAL HAULING – For material delivery vehicles equal to, or larger than two-axle, six-
tire single unit truck (SU) size or larger as defined by FHWA Standards, the applicant shall 
submit a truck hauling route that conforms to SMMC Section 11.28.040 for the approval of 
the Director of Public Works or designee. The project sponsor shall require contractors to 
prohibit trucks from using “compression release engine brakes” on residential streets. The

--- page 65 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 23 of 30

--- page 66 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 24 of 30
haul route for this project shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee.
A letter from the applicant confirming the intention to use this hauling route shall be 
submitted to the Department of Public Works, and approved, prior to the issuance of any 
City permits. All material hauling activities including but not limited to, adherence to the 
approved route, hours of operation, staging of materials, dust control and street 
maintenance shall be the responsibility of the applicant. All storage and office trailers will 
be kept off the public right-of-way. Tracking of dirt onto City streets and walks will not be 
allowed. Entry and exit from the site will use rock or rumble strips to prevent tracking.
The applicant shall provide an approved method of cleaning tires and trimming loads on 
site. Any job related dirt and/or debris that impacts the public right of way shall be 
removed immediately. No wash down of dirt into storm drains will be allowed. Use of a 
sweeper is permissible as long as it operates dry (no water used, only vacuum). All 
material hauling activities shall be done in accordance with applicable City ordinances and 
conditions of approval. Violation of such may be cause for suspension of work. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
84 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES – The following provision to control traffic 
congestion, noise, and dust shall be followed during site excavation, grading and 
construction:
(A) Construction activities related to the issuance of any Public Works permit shall be 
restricted to the weekday between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Please note, however, that no 
work shall be allowed to take place within the City right-of-way after 5:00 p.m. In addition, 
no work being done under the issuance of a Public Works encroachment permit may be 
performed on the weekend unless prior approvals have been granted by Public Works. 
Earth haul and materials delivery to and from the site, including truck arrivals and 
departures to and from the site, will be prohibited between the weekday hours of 4:00
p.m. 5:30 p.m. Signs outlining these restrictions shall be posted at conspicuous locations 
on site. The signs shall be per the City Standard Drawing for posting construction hours. 
The sign shall be kept free of graffiti at all times. Contact the Public Works Department to 
obtain sample City Standard sign outlining hours of operation.
The allowed hours of Public Works construction activities may be waived or modified 
through an exemption, for limited periods, if the Director of Public Works or designee 
finds that:
(i) The following criteria are met:

--- page 67 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 24 of 30

--- page 68 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 25 of 30
(a) Permitting extended hours of construction will decrease the total time needed to 
complete the project thus mitigating the total amount of noise associated with the project 
as a whole; or
(b) Permitting extended hours of construction are required to accommodate design or 
engineering requirements, such as a large concrete pour. Such a need would be 
determined by the project's design engineer and require approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee.
(c) An emergency situation exists where the construction work is necessary to correct an 
unsafe or dangerous condition resulting in obvious and eminent peril to public health and 
safety. If such a condition exists, the City may waive any of the remaining requirements 
outlined below.
(ii) The exemption will not conflict with any other condition of approval required by the 
City to mitigate significant impacts.
(iii) The contractor or owner of the property will notify residential and commercial 
occupants of property adjacent to the construction site of the hours of construction 
activity which may impact the area. This notification shall be provided three days prior to 
the start of the extended construction activity.
(iv) The approved hours of construction activity will be posted at the construction site in a 
place and manner that can be easily viewed by any interested member of the public.
The Director of Public Works or designee may revoke the exemption at any time if the 
contractor or owner of the property fails to abide by the conditions of exemption or if it is 
determined that the peace, comfort and tranquility of the occupants of adjacent 
residential or commercial properties are impaired because of the location and nature of 
the construction. The waiver application shall be submitted to the Public Works 
Construction Inspector ten (10) working days prior to the requested date of waiver.
(B) All construction vehicles shall be properly maintained and equipped with exhaust 
mufflers that meet State standards.
(C) Newly disturbed soil surfaces shall be watered down regularly by a water trucks or by 
other approved method maintained on site during all grading operations. Construction 
grading activity shall be discontinued in wind conditions that in the opinion of the Public 
Works Construction Inspector cause excessive neighborhood dust problems. Wash down

--- page 69 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 25 of 30

--- page 70 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 26 of 30
of dirt and debris into storm drain systems will not be allowed.
(D) Construction activities shall be scheduled so that paving and foundation placement 
begin immediately upon completion of grading operation, if and when practical.
(E) All aggregate materials transported to and from the site shall be covered in accordance 
with Section 23114 of the California Vehicle Code during transit to and from the site.
(F) Prior to issuance of any permit, the applicant shall submit any applicable pedestrian or 
traffic detour plans, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or designee, for any 
lane or sidewalk closures. The detour plan shall comply with Part 6, Temporary Traffic 
Control, of the State of California Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), 
2012, and standard construction practices. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
85 APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved planning 
application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning application occupies 
the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning application. This includes 
but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, and other items submitted as 
part of the approved planning application. Any proposed modifications to the approved 
planning application shall be reviewed and approved by the Community Development 
Director, or his/her designee, prior to construction of the proposed modifications. The 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee shall determine whether the 
proposed modifications substantially conform with the approved planning application, or 
whether a planning application modification is required to be submitted to permit the 
proposed modifications, as required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications. 
(PLANNING)
86 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS FOR DISCOVERY OF HUMAN REMAINS - The project
shall comply with Section 7050.5 of the Health and Safety Code and Public Resources 
Code Section 5097.98, including immediate work stoppage upon discovery of
human remains or burial grounds, and treatment in accordance with applicable law and in
consultation with the affected California Native American tribe. (PLANNING)

--- page 71 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 26 of 30

--- page 72 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 27 of 30
87 DOCUMENTATION OF TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES - All treatment and documentation
of tribal cultural resources shall be conducted in a culturally appropriate manner, as 
required by AB130 (PLANNING)
88 GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE – Unless otherwise approved through the entitlement 
process, the project shall be designed, constructed, and operated in a manner that is 
consistent with all applicable goals, policies, land use designations, and development 
standards of the City’s adopted General Plan 2040. (PLANNING)
89 LABOR CODE - The provisions of Section 218.8 of the Labor Code shall extend to the 
development proponent in addition to the direct contractor or subcontractor. The 
development proponent for this project is Prometheus Real Estate Group, Inc. 
(PLANNING)
90 LABOR STANDARDS - The labor standards of paragraph (8) of subdivision (a) of Section 
65913.4 of the Government Code shall apply to buildings over 85 feet in height above 
grade. (PLANNING)
91 TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES - Tribal cultural resources shall be avoided
where feasible, in accordance with subdivision (a) of Public Resources Code Section 
21084.3. In furtherance of this requirement, where feasible, the project applicant shall 
provide deference to tribal preferences regarding access to spiritual, ceremonial, and 
burial sites, and incorporate tribal traditional knowledge in the protection and sustainable 
use of tribal cultural resources and landscapes. (PLANNING)
92 TRIBAL ECOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE - An application of tribal ecological knowledge into any 
habitat restoration efforts shall be undertaken by the project proponent as applicable to 
the specific environmental context and conditions of the project. (PLANNING)
93 TRIBAL MONITOR - The project shall include tribal monitoring during all ground-disturbing
activities, as follows:
a.  One monitor as designated by the Muwekma Oholone Tribe shall be present 
during all ground-disturbing activities and for all mechanical ground-
disturbing/subsurface excavations that have the potential to affect native soils that 
could potentially contain Tribal cultural deposits within the entire construction 
project area, including off-site related improvements.

--- page 73 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 27 of 30

--- page 74 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 28 of 30
b. The tribal monitor shall comply with applicant’s site access and workplace safety
requirements.
c.
The applicant shall compensate the tribal monitor at a rate provided in Muwekma 
rate sheet, determined in good faith, that aligns with customary compensation for 
cultural resource monitoring, taking into account factors such as the scope and 
duration of the project, as well as the tribal monitor's actual time spent on the 
project site during ground-disturbing activities . (PLANNING)
City Attorney (PA)
94 INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of 
San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and against 
any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning application, 
including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result from third party 
challenge. If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall retain the right to 
select the counsel who shall defend the City. (CITY ATTORNEY)
95 PENALTY – In accordance with San Mateo Municipal Code section 27.02.210-Violations of 
Planning Application Conditions, any violation of any of the conditions of approval is 
unlawful and will subject the applicant to the penalties set forth in Chapter 1.04-General 
Penalty of the San Mateo Municipal Code as well as any other available legal remedies. 
(CITY ATTORNEY)
Police Department (PA)
96 BUILDING SECURITY CODE COMPLIANCE – The building permit plans shall comply with the 
City’s Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54). (POLICE)
97 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS FOR TALL BUILDINGS, ACCESS AND SECURITY – The
applicant shall allow 24 hour, 7 day per week access to the dedicated public safety 
communications radio server rack and antenna(s) for maintenance purposes at all times 
that the use permitted by this planning application occupies the premises. If the City 
installs radio equipment, applicant shall take reasonable measures to secure and 
safeguard City equipment from theft or vandalism. (POLICE)
98 SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS – Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building 
Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 23.54.060)

--- page 75 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 28 of 30

--- page 76 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 29 of 30
shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use permitted by this planning
application occupies the premises. (POLICE)
99 VIDEO SURVEILLANCE STANDARDS – To the extent permitted by applicable law, the 
applicant shall install and operate for the life of the project a video surveillance system 
subject to the following requirements:
(A) The information shall be maintained and retrievable for a minimum of 30 days. The 
captured video material shall be accessible to investigating police personnel through some 
form of facility management during regular business hours. The applicant shall provide 
proof of registration of the video surveillance camera system with the City through the 
City’s Neighborhood Eyes Security Team web form (https://sanmateoconnect.org/).
(B) Cameras shall be placed and maintained to view common areas of the property 
accessible to the public such as lobbies, parking lots, parking garages and entrances and 
exits to all parking garages, gates dividing different uses inside mixed-use parking garages, 
driveways, circulation areas, aisles, passageways, recesses, and grounds contiguous to all 
buildings. This condition is not intended to require Applicant to install pole mount 
cameras on the property, cameras to view these areas may be installed on the building 
facing out.
(C) The cameras in this system shall be megapixel or better CCTV cameras that shall be 
capable of operating in all lighting conditions anticipated at project completion. Cameras 
viewing locations intended to allow routine vehicle passage onto the sites and/or garages 
shall additionally be capable of capturing the front and rear of all entering and exiting 
vehicles that use the sites and/or garages, and be of sufficient quality to identify the make 
and model of vehicles accessing the site, clearly read both front and rear license plates of 
vehicles, and clearly depict faces of occupants through the front windshield. (POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
100 POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with the
City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations, San Mateo 
Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater Management 
Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant shall:
(A) Owner/occupant shall inspect private stormwater treatment devices and GI features in 
the public right-of-way at least two (2) times per year and sweep parking lots immediately

--- page 77 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 29 of 30

--- page 78 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 30 of 30
prior to and once during the storm season.
(B) The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but not limited 
to, City inspection of the private stormwater treatment facilities, emergency maintenance 
needed to protect public health or watercourses, and facility replacement or repair in the 
event that the treatment facility is no longer able to meet performance standards or has 
deteriorated. The fee shall be based upon the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee 
Schedule.
(C) Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – Drains 
to Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water and to prevent direct 
discharge of pollutants into the storm drain. Template ordering information is available 
from the Department of Public Works.
(D) All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and similar 
chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and grease planned for 
storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at all times. (PUBLIC WORKS)
101 TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT (TDM) Checklist – Once implemented, the 
Transportation Demand Management Checklist shall be monitored and assessed annually 
for the occupied life of the development. The checklist shall be recorded with the County. 
The assessment of compliance with the Transportation Demand Management Checklist 
shall be submitted to Public Works by the end of every calendar year (December 31st). 
(PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 79 ---
PA-2025-025, GATEWAY
As approved on 
Page 30 of 30

--- page 80 ---
EXHIBIT B
SUMMARY OF PROJECT WAIVERS
The waivers to the following standards have been identiﬁed, to be applied pursuant to State Density Bonus
Law:
1)
Loading Berth – Per SMMC Section 27.64.390, the project requires a minimum loading zone berth 
of 10’x25’. The proposed loading zone is 8’x25’.
2)
Turning Radii – Per SMMC Section 27.64.130, turning aisles or ramps with two-way traﬃc shall 
have radii and aisle widths suﬃcient for 2 or more automobiles to pass on the turn. The proposed 
project includes turning radii that are less that the code requirements. The applicant has provided 
a turning diagram to demonstrate functionality of the proposed ramp.
3)
Building Height – Per the San Mateo General Plan 2040, the Mixed Use Medium II land use 
designation allows for residential buildings up to 6 stories. The proposed project is 8 stories.
4)
Blank Walls – Per ODS Section 4.1.1, “Blank walls shall be limited to a maximum of twenty (20) 
feet in length on all stories”. The application includes a blank wall area exceeding 20 feet in length 
along the ﬁrst two ﬂoors of the building where parking and utility areas are provided.
5)
Massing Breaks – Per ODS Standard Section 4.4.7.A.3.b, the top of the building shall be 
diﬀerentiated from the base and the body by at least 2 of the following: building material, wall 
plane breaks (minimum of 2 feet in depth and 5 feet in length), stepback (minimum of 10 feet 
along all building facades), color, eaves, projected roof overhang (minimum of 18 inches), stepped 
parapets, or roof cornice/distinguishing architectural elements such as overhangs, pergolas, etc. 
on the uppermost ﬂoor). The applicant has partially met this standard by providing a deﬁned top 
along portions of the building, thought some portions of the top are not diﬀerentiated with at 
least 2 of the listed items as required.
6)
Façade Design – Per ODS Section 7.1.1.B, building façade design shall include a change in the 
street-fronting façade through the use of vertical recesses or projections, building height, and/or 
colors and materials at intervals of twenty-ﬁve (25) to ﬁfty (50)-feet. The project does not include 
the speciﬁed changes in street-fronting facades at the intervals speciﬁed.
7)
Setbacks – The proposed project is located within the Vision of the Gateway Speciﬁc Plan Area, 
which includes speciﬁc setback requirements that supersede those required for the zoning district 
in which the project is located.
i.
Per ODS Section 7.7.1.A.2, along the south side of Third Avenue, a minimum setback of 20 feet 
from the Third Avenue property line is required. The project has a setback of 3.1 feet along 
Third Avenue.
ii.
Per ODS Section 7.7.1.A.3, along neighborhood streets, a minimum setback between Fifteen
(15) to a maximum of twenty (20) feet from the property line is required. The project has 
setbacks of 2.5 feet along Eldorado St., and 9 feet along S Delaware St.
8)
Stepbacks – The proposed project is located within the Vision of the Gateway Speciﬁc Plan Area, 
which includes speciﬁc stepback requirements that supersede those required for the zoning

--- page 81 ---


--- page 82 ---
district in which the project is located.
i.
Per ODS Section 7.7.1.B.1, along the south side of Third Avenue, an additional 8-foot minimum 
stepback shall be provided along the right of way face for the portion of the building above 30 
feet in height. The project has identiﬁed a waiver for a reduced stepback along Third Avenue.
ii.
Per ODS Section 7.7.1.B.2, along neighborhood streets, an additional 8-foot minimum 
stepback shall be provided along the right of way face for the portion of the building above 25 
feet in height. The project proposes a waiver for reduced stepbacks along Eldorado St. and S 
Delaware St.
9)
Residential Entries – Per ODS Section 7.7.3.A.1, along the south Side of Third Avenue and along 
neighborhood streets, front door entries shall be located at intervals of at least every 25 to 30 
feet. Where residential entries to townhome units are proposed along Third Ave., they are 
provided with 28-foot spacing, in compliance with this standard. However, residential entries are 
not proposed at regular intervals along S Delaware St. or Eldorado St.
i.
Additionally, Per ODS Section 7.7.3.A.3.b, along the south side of Third Avenue, porches shall 
be allowed within the front setback area up to within 10 feet of the property line. The porches 
for four townhome units fronting Third Ave. are located less than 10 feet from the property 
line.
10) Ground Floor Residential Entries – Per ODS Section 4.2.1, entries to ground ﬂoor residential units 
shall be located 18 to 42 inches above or below the grade of the adjacent public sidewalk. The 
ground ﬂoor entries to four townhome units along Third Ave. are proposed from 10 to 21 inches 
above exterior grade.
11) Architectural Styles and Materials – Per ODS Section 7.7.1.D at least one of the following are 
required per unit on all street-facing facades (porches, bay windows, decorative walls up to a max. 
height of three feet, or window boxes). There are units provided that do not include one of the 
elements speciﬁed. The project has identiﬁed a waiver to this standard, and has proposed other 
architectural features, such as Juliet balconies and recessed balconies/terraces on units at upper 
levels

--- page 83 ---
ATTACHMENT 2 – LOCATION MAP
PA-2025-025
668 E 3rd, “Gateway” SPAR & SDPA for Multifamily Residential Development
Address:
668 E 3rd Ave., San Mateo, CA 94401
Parcel Number:
034-188-140

--- page 84 ---
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
MARCH 25, 2025
FORMAL PLANNING APPLICATION
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G000
COVER
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 85 ---
ABBREVIATIONS
JONES ARCHITECTURE
120 NW 9TH AVE., SUITE 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
TEL: 503.477.9165
CONTACT: ALAN JONES
EMAIL: ajones@jonesarc.com
PROJECT TEAM
OWNER / DEVELOPER
PROMETHEUS REAL ESTATE GROUP
1 NORTH B STREET, SUITE 4000
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
TEL: 650.931.3569
CONTACT: JONATHAN STONE
ARCHITECT
GENERAL NOTES
1.   THESE CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS SET MINIMUM STANDARDS.  THE DRAWINGS SHALL GOVERN
OVER GENERAL NOTES TO THE EXTENT SHOWN. DO NOT SCALE THE DRAWINGS, NOTED DIMENSIONS
GOVERN. ALL DIMENSIONS ARE TO FACE OF SHEATHING OR ROUGH OPENING UNLESS OTHERWISE
NOTED.
2.    ALL WORK PERFORMED, INCLUDING MATERIALS FURNISHED, WORKMANSHIP, MEANS AND METHODS
OF CONSTRUCTION SHALL CONFORM TO THE APPLICABLE AND LATEST REQUIREMENTS OF THE
NATIONAL, STATE AND LOCAL BUILDING CODES, ALL LOCAL AND STATE HANDICAP ACCESS AND USE
REGULATIONS, ANY FIRE DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS, UTILITY COMPANY REQUIREMENTS AND
LANDLORD'S RULES AND REGULATIONS, AND GENERAL CONDITIONS OF APPLICABLE
OWNER/CONTRACTOR AGREEMENT.
3.   BEFORE COMMENCING WORK, THE CONTRACTOR SHALL FILE ALL REQUIRED CERTIFICATES  OF
INSURANCE WITH THE OWNER, LANDLORD AND THE DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS, OBTAIN ALL REQUIRED
PERMITS, AND PAY ALL FEES REQUIRED BY THE GOVERNING AGENCIES. NAME JONES ARCHITECTURE
AND THEIR AGENTS AS ADDITIONAL INSURED.
4.   DRAWINGS INDICATE LOCATION, DIMENSIONS, REFERENCE, AND TYPICAL DETAIL FOR
CONSTRUCTION.  MINOR DETAILS NOT USUALLY SHOWN OR SPECIFIED, BUT NECESSARY FOR PROPER
CONSTRUCTION OF ANY PART OF THE WORK SHALL BE INCLUDED AS IF THEY WERE INDICATED IN THE
DRAWINGS. FOR CONDITIONS NOT ILLUSTRATED, NOTIFY  ARCHITECT FOR CLARIFICATION AND/OR
SIMILAR DETAIL.
5.   CONTRACTOR SHALL EMPLOY ADEQUATE NUMBER OF SKILLED WORKMEN WHO ARE THOROUGHLY
TRAINED AND EXPERIENCED IN THE NECESSARY CRAFTS AND WHO ARE COMPLETELY FAMILIAR WITH
THE SPECIFIED REQUIREMENTS AND THE METHODS NEEDED FOR PROPER PERFORMANCE OF THE
WORK.  ALL WORK SHALL BE PERFORMED BY DULY  LICENSED TRADESMEN AND AS REQUIRED BY STATE
AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS FOR EACH APPLICABLE TRADE, (PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL, ETC), WHO SHALL
ARRANGE FOR AND OBTAIN REQUIRED INSPECTIONS AND SIGN OFFS.
6.  THESE DRAWINGS ARE DIVIDED INTO SECTIONS FOR CONVENIENCE ONLY. CONTRACTOR,
SUBCONTRACTORS, VENDORS AND MATERIAL SUPPLIERS SHALL REFER TO ALL RELEVANT SECTIONS IN
BIDDING AND PERFORMING THEIR WORK AND SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL ASPECTS OF THEIR
WORK REGARDLESS OF WHERE THE INFORMATION OCCURS ON THE DRAWINGS.
7.   CONTRACTOR SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE TO COORDINATE WORK OF ALL TRADES AND SHALL PROVIDE
ALL DIMENSIONS REQUIRED FOR OTHER TRADES. SUBCONTRACTORS SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
COORDINATION OF THEIR WORK WITH THE WORK OF OTHERS, AND SHALL VERIFY THAT ANY WORK
RELATING TO THEM WHICH MUST BE PROVIDED BY OTHERS, HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND IS ADEQUATE
PRIOR TO COMMENCING THEIR WORK.
8.  CONTRACTOR SHALL PROVIDE STRUCTURAL BACKING/BLOCKING FOR ALL WALL MOUNTED FIXTURES,
FINISHES AND EQUIPMENT, AND FOR ALL HANGING FIXTURES, BLINDS, ETC.
9.  CONTRACTOR SHALL INSTALL ALL MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT AS PER MANUFACTURER'S WRITTEN
INSTRUCTIONS AND/OR RECOMMENDATIONS.
10.  CONTRACTOR SHALL AT ALL TIMES DURING THE COURSE OF THE CONTRACT KEEP THE ADJOINING
PREMISES, INCLUDING STREETS AND OTHER AREAS ASSIGNED TO, OR USED BY THE CONTRACTOR, FREE
FROM ACCUMULATIONS OF WASTE MATERIALS AND RUBBISH  CAUSED BY CONTRACTOR'S EMPLOYEES,
SUBCONTRACTORS OR THEIR WORK.
11.  CONTRACTOR SHALL ASSIST WITH DELIVERY AND STORAGE OF OWNER SUPPLIED ITEMS, AND
DISPOSE OF ANY RESULTING TRASH.
12.  CONTRACTOR SHALL VERIFY WITH OWNER AND IMPLEMENT ALL LANDLORD CONSTRUCTION AND
DESIGN CRITERIA, SHOWN ON THIS SET OF DRAWINGS OR NOT SHOWN.
13.   THE CONTRACTOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL MEANS AND METHODS OF TEMPORARY SHORING,
BRACING, OR OTHERWISE PROTECTING ANY PORTION OF THE EXISTING STRUCTURE AND UTILITIES
FROM DAMAGE DURING CONSTRUCTION. THE ENGINEER IS SPECIFYING THE FINISHED CONDITION ONLY.
WITHOUT ASSUMING KNOWLEDGE NOR RESPONSIBILITY FOR HOW THE CONTRACTOR WILL ACHIEVE THIS
RESULT.
TYP DOOR DIMENISONS
DIMENSIONING LEGEND
1
A
EXTERIOR GRID LOCATION
CENTERLINE OF 
PARTITION, TYP.
INTERIOR GRID LOCATION
4" TYP U.N.O
FACE OF 
SHEATHING, TYP.
INTERIOR DIMENSIONS
ARE TO FACE OF STUD,
UNLESS NOTED
OTHERWISE
A
DOORS IN FRAMED
PARTITION WALLS
TO BE 4" FROM DOOR
OPENING TO FINISH
FACE OF PERPENDICULAR
WALL, U.N.O.
1
INTERIOR DIMENSIONS
15
OFFICE
200
S-1
115
1
A
A100
1
A1.2
1
A100
0'-0"
ROOM NAME & NO. TARGET
DOOR TAG
WALL TAG
CEILING HEIGHT TAG
SYMBOL LEGEND
WINDOW TAG
PLUMBING FIXTURE TAG
INTERIOR ELEVATION TAG
STRUCTURAL GRID
VERTICAL ELEVATION
LINE TYPES
CENTERLINE
PROP. LINE
BREAKLINE
DETAIL TAG
BUILDING SECTION TAG
00' - 00"
W4
WALL TYPE NUMBER
6
STUD SIZE
1
2
1
A1.2
WALL SECTION TAG
PLUMBING 
FIXTURE
NUMBER
CEILING HT
ABOVE
FINISH FLR
WINDOW NUMBER
DOOR NUMBER
ROOM NAME
ROOM NUMBER
EXTERIOR ELEVATION TAG
SHEET NUMBER
SHEET NUMBER
DRAWING NUMBER
DRAWING NUMBER
SHEET NUMBER
DRAWING NUMBER
SHEET NUMBER
DRAWING NUMBER
1
A100
SHEET NUMBER
DRAWING NUMBER
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
CIVIL ENGINEER
PLACE
4311 11TH AVE
SEATTLE, WA  98105
TEL: 206.228.2421
CONTACT: PHOEBE BOGERT
EMAIL: phoebe.bogert@place.la
BFK ENGINEERS
1730 N FIRST ST, SUITE #600
SAN JOSE, CA 95112
TEL: 408.467.9126
CONTACT: KYLE CHRISTY
EMAIL: kchristy@bkf.com
AFF
ACOUST
ACP
ACT
ADJ
AL
AB
APPROX
ARCH
ASPH
B
BM
BITUM
BLK
BLKG
BD
BTM
BC
BW
BLDG
CPT
CAB
CI
CIP
CLG
CEM
CTR
CT
CLR
CLO
COL
CONC
CMU
COND
CONSTR
CONT
CONTR
CJ
CORR
Above Finish Floor
Acoustical
Acoustical Ceiling Panel
Acoustical Ceiling Tile
Adjust, Adjustable
Aluminum
Anchor Bolt
Approximately
Architectural
Asphalt
Base
Beam
Bituminous
Block
Blocking
Board
Bottom
Bottom of Curb
Bottom of Wall
Building
Carpet
Cabinet
Cast Iron
Cast In Place
Ceiling
Cement
Center
Ceramic Tile
Clear
Closer
Column
Concrete
Conc. Masonry Units
Condition
Construction
Continuous
Contractor
Control Joint
Corridor
CNTR
CTSK
DET
DIA
DIM
DR
DBL
DN
DS
DWR
DWG
DF
EA
ELEC
EL
ELEV
EMER
ENCL
EQ
EQPT
EXIST
EXP
EJ
EXPO
EXT
F
FOC
FOF
FOM
FOS
F.FIN
FIN
FF
FFE
FL
FD
FT
FTG
FDN
Counter
Countersink
Detail
Diameter
Dimension
Door
Double
Down
Downspout
Drawer
Drawing
Drinking Fountain
Each
Electrical
Elevation
Elevator
Emergency
Enclosure
Equal
Equipment
Existing
Expansion
Expansion Joint
Exposed
Exterior
Fabric
Face of Concrete
Face of Finish
Face of Masonry
Face of Sheathing
Factory Finish
Finish
Finish Floor
Finish Floor Elevation
Floor
Floor Drain
Foot or Feet
Footing
Foundation
FS
FOIC
FURR
FUT
G
GALV
GI
GA
GLULAM
GLB
GL
GB
GR
GND
GWB
GWB/WR
GYP
HDWE
HT
HC
HM
HORIZ
HB
HR
IN
ID
INSUL
INT
IRG
JAN
JT
KD
LAV
LT
M
MFR
MO
MAX
Full Size, Scale
Furnished by Owner,
Installed by Contractor
Furring
Future
Grout
Galvanized
Galvanized Iron
Gauge
Glu-Laminated
Glu-Laminated Beam
Glass
Grab Bar
Grade
Ground
Gypsum Wallboard
Water Resistant
Gypsum
Hardware
Height
Hollow Core
Hollow Metal
Horizontal
Hose Bib
Hour
Inch(es)
Inside Diameter (Dim.)
Insulation
Interior
Impact Resistant GWB
Janitor
Joint
Knock Down
Lavatory
Light
Mortar
Manufacturer
Masonry Opening
Maximum
MECH
MDO
MEMB
MTL
MIN
MISC
MTD
MUL
NOM
NIC
NTS
NO
OC
OPNG
OPP
OH
OD
P
PTD
PART BD
PERF
PLAS
PL
PLAM
PLWD, PLY
PT
PP
PRCST
PREFIN
PT
P/L
R or RAD
REFR
REF
FEINF
REQ
RES
R
RD
Mechanical
Medium Density Overlay
Membrane
Metal
Minimum
Miscellaneous
Mounted
Mullion
Nominal
Not in Contract
Not to Scale
Number
On Center
Opening
Opposite
Opposite Hand
Outside Diameter (Dim.)
Paint
Paper Towel Dispenser
Particle Board
Perforated
Plaster
Plate
Plastic Laminate
Plywood
Point
Power Pole
Precast Concrete
Prefinished
Pressure Treated
Property Line
Radius
Refrigerator
Reference
Reinforced
Requirements
Resilient
Riser(s)
Roof Drain
RM
RO
SECT
SHG
SHT
SH
SHWR
SIM
SOG
SC
SQ
SF
SS
STD
STL
STOR
STRUC
SV
SYM
SYS
T
THK
T&G
T.O.
TYP
UNF
UNO
VG
VCT
WC
WP
WT
W
WDW
W/
W/O
WD
WWF
WR
Room
Rough Opening
Section
Sheathing
Sheet
Shelf
Shower
Similar
Slab on Grade
Solid Core
Square
Square Feet
Stainless Steel
Standard
Steel
Storage
Structural
Sheet Vinyl
Symmetrical
System
Tile
Thick
Tongue and Groove
Top of
Typical
Unfinished
Unless Noted Otherwise
Vertical Grain
Vinyl Composition Tile
Water Closet
Waterproof
Weight
West
Window
With
Without
Wood
Woven Wire Fabric
Water Resistant
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
WAIVER SUMMARY
A NEW 8-STORY BUILDING WITH 5-STORIES OF MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL TYPE III-A STRUCTURE OVER 
A 3-STORIES TYPE I-A STRUCTURE WHICH INCLUDE PARKING, BUILDING AMENITIES, AND RESIDENTIAL 
UNITS. THE PROPOSED BUILDING IS APPROXIMATELY 165,634 SF AND WILL PROVIDE 128 RESIDENTIAL 
UNITS.
THE PROPOSED 8 STORY, 128-UNIT RESIDENTIAL BUILDING EMBODIES A REFINED BLEND OF SPANISH 
REVIVAL AND MEDITERRANEAN ARCHITECTURAL STYLES. THE PROPOSAL INCLUDES FOR-RENT UNITS 
AND ASSOCIATED AMENITIES; IT DOES NOT INCLUDE SUBDIVISIONS OF THE LOTS OR CONDOMINIUMS. 
THE BUILDING AND ITS SITE ARE DESIGNED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS 
AS WELL AS THE STANDARDS SET FORTH BY EACH OF THE SPECIFIC PLAN AREAS WHICH INCLUDE BUT 
ARE NOT LIMITED TO FAÇADE MODULATION, WINDOW/BALCONY ALIGNMENTS, LIGHT COLORED STUCCO 
FACADES, WEATHERED BRICK FACADES, VARIED ROOF LINES, AND SIMULATED RED TILE ROOFS AND 
PARAPETS. ADDITIONALLY, THE OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS FOR BOTH SPECIFIC PLAN AREAS 
PRESCRIBE 13 ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS, 7 OF WHICH ARE TO BE INCLUDED. THE PROPOSED 
PROJECT IMPLEMENTS MULTI-LEVEL ROOFS, ASYMMETRICAL MASSING, ARCHES, ORNAMENTAL 
DETAILS, MULTI-PANE WINDOWS, DECORATIVE TILES, ORNAMENTAL DETAILS, AND DEEP RECESSED 
OPENINGS AT THE GROUND STORY LOBBY. THE DETAILING AND MATERIALITY OUTLINED HERE OFFER A 
MODERN INTERPRETATION ON TRADITIONAL CRAFTSMANSHIP, ESTABLISHING A DIALOGUE WITH THE 
REGION’S ARCHITECTURAL HERITAGE AND CREATING A VIBRANT COMMUNITY HUB BY BLENDING 
CONTEMPORARY LIVING WITH CULTURAL RICHNESS TO FOSTER ENGAGEMENT AND ENRICH THE URBAN 
LANDSCAPE.
PROJECT INFORMATION
PROJECT APN:
   
034-188-140
LEGAL DESCRIPTION:
LEGAL DESCRIPTION PER THE COMMITMENT FOR TITLE INSURANCE ISSUED BY FIRST AMERICAN TITLE 
COMPANY, FILE NO. NCS-996396-CC, DATED JUNE 18, 2020.
THE LAND REFERRED TO HEREIN BELOW IS SITUATED IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, COUNTY OF SAN 
MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AND IS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS: 
PARCEL LETTERED “A”, AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN MAP ENTITLED, “PARCEL MAP NO. 176 OF A 
RESUBDIVISION OF PORTION OF BLOCK 26, “MAP OF THE TOWN OF SAN MATEO, SAN MATEO COUNTY, 
CAL”, FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
ON NOVEMBER 6, 1978 IN BOOK 44 OF MAPS AT PAGE(S) 20.
FOR CONVEYANCING PURPOSES ONLY:  
APN 034-188-140
JPN: 034-018-188-02A, 034-018-188-03A, 
034-018-188-013A
SITE INFORMATION
ADDRESS: 
LOT AREA:
LOT COVERAGE:
BUILDING HEIGHT
2040 GENERAL PLAN, CHAPTER 2
4-6 STORIES (DESIGNATION: MIXED-USE MEDIUM II)
BLANK WALLS
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 4.1.1
BLANK WALLS SHALL BE LIMITED TO A MAXIMUM OF TWENTY (20) FEET IN LENGTH ON ALL STORIES.
STEPBACKS
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 7.7.1.B.1 & 7.7.1.B.2
B.1. ALONG THE SOUTH SIDE OF THIRD AVENUE AND ALL OF FOURTH AVENUE: ABOVE THIRTY (30) FEET 
OF BUILDING HEIGHT, AN ADDITIONAL EIGHT (8)-FOOT MINIMUM STEPBACK SHALL BE PROVIDED ALONG 
THE RIGHT-OF-WAY FACADE
B.2. ALONG NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS: ABOVE TWENTY-FIVE (25) FEET BUILDING HEIGHT, AN ADDITIONAL 
EIGHT (8)-FOOT MINIMUM STEPBACK SHALL BE PROVIDED ALONG THE RIGHT-OF-WAY FACADE
RESIDENTIAL ENTRIES
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 7.7.3.2.B & 7.7.3.3A
2.B. ON NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS OPEN PORCHES MAY EXTEND INTO THE FRONT SETBACK AREA UP TO 
WITHIN TEN (10) FEET OF THE PROPERTY LINE.
3.A. ALONG THE SOUTH SIDE OF THIRD AVENUE AND ALL OF FOURTH AVENUE PORCHES SHALL BE 
ALLOWED WITHIN THE FRONT SETBACK AREA UP TO WITHIN TEN (10) FEET OF THE PROPERTY LINE.
SETBACKS
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 7.7.1.A.2 & 7.7.1.A.3
SETBACKS. THE FOLLOWING SETBACKS SHALL SUPERSEDE THOSE REQUIRED FOR THE ZONING DISTRICT 
IN WHICH THE PROJECT IS LOCATED:
A.2. ALONG THE SOUTH SIDE OF THIRD AVENUE AND ALL OF FOURTH AVENUE: FIFTEEN (15) TO TWENTY 
(20) FEET FROM THE PROPERTY LINE 
A.3. ALONG NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS: FIFTEEN (15) TO TWENTY (20) FEET FROM THE PROPERTY LINE 
GROUND FLOOR REQUIREMENTS : RESIDENTIAL
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 4.2.1
ENTRIES TO GROUND-FLOOR RESIDENTIAL UNITS SHALL BE LOCATED EIGHTEEN (18) TO FORTY-TWO (42) 
INCHES ABOVE OR BELOW THE GRADE OF THE ADJACENT PUBLIC SIDEWALK.
LAND USE (2040 GENERAL PLAN) DESIGNATION : 
MIXED USE MEDIUM II
SPECIFIC PLAN AREA OVERLAYS (OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS) : 
DOWNTOWN SPECIFIC PLAN  & VISION OF GATEWAY SPECIFIC PLAN 
DENSITY
BASE ZONE : 51-00 DU/AC (2040 GENERAL PLAN) 
MAXIMUM PARCEL COVERAGE = 100%
SITE AREA = 0.65 ACRES
99DU/AC x 0.65AC = 64 UNITS 
DENSITY BONUS : 100% BONUS
15% VERY LOW INCOME UNITS = 50% BONUS
15% MODERATE INCOME UNITS = ADDITIONAL 50% BONUS 
99DU/AC x 100% BONUS = 197 DU/AC
197DU/AC x .65AC = 128 UNITS 
PROVIDED DENSITY : 128 UNITS 
(128 UNITS / .065 ACRES = 197 DU/AC)
BUILDING HEIGHT:
  
MAX : 4-6 STORIES (2040 GENERAL PLAN) 
PROVIDED : 8 STORIES, 85'-0"
RESIDENTIAL UNITS:
128 UNITS
PARKING:
73 COVERED PARKING STALLS
0 UNCOVERED PARKING STALLS
BICYCLE PARKING:
SHORT TERM BIKE PARKING: 
REQUIRED: 8
PROVIDED: 8
LONG TERM BIKE PARKING: 
REQUIRED: 140 
PROVIDED: 140
ZONING SUMMARY
668 E 3RD STREET
SAN MATEO, CA 94401
VICINITY MAP
668 E 3RD STREET, SAN MATEO, CA
28,387 SF
EXISTING: 13,650 SF +/-
PROPOSED: 24,755 SF +/-
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA INFORMATION
SITE ADDRESS:
APN:
ZONING CLASSIFICATION:
OCCUPANCY GROUP(S):
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION:
LOT SIZE (SF):
PERMITTED FLOOR AREA RATIO:
MAXIMUM PERMITTED FLOOR AREA (SF):
FLOOR AREA (SF):
MAIN STRUCTURE(S):
P1:
GROUND STORY:
2ND STORY:
3RD STORY:
4TH STORY:
5TH STORY:
6TH STORY:
7TH STORY:
8TH STORY:
TOTAL FLOOR AREA:
PROPOSED BUILDING HEIGHT: (TABLE 504.3)
NUMBER OF STORIES: (TABLE 504.4)
NUMBER OF PROPOSED VS EXISTING RESIDENTIAL UNITS:
PROPOSED NUMBER OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS (BY BEDROOM COUNT):
EXISTING INTERIOR FLOOR AREA TO BE REMODELED:
TOTAL COVERED PARKING STALLS:
TOTAL UNCOVERED PARKING STALLS:
EXISTING:
PROPOSED:
EXISTING:
PROPOSED:
668 E 3RD STREET, SAN MATEO, CA
034-188-140
MIXED USE MEDIUM II
R-2, S-2
R-2: TYPE IIIA, FULLY SPRINKLERED
28,387 SF
N/A 
N/A
21,190 SF
23,009 SF
20,035 SF
21,050 SF
195,950 SF
85'-0"
8 STORIES
128
171
N/A
73
N/A
S-2: TYPE IA, FULLY SPRINKLERED
R-2: TYPE IA, FULLY SPRINKLERED
195,950 SF
26,186 SF
N/A, NO EXISTING RESIDENTIAL
UNITS
PARKING STALLS: 
STANDARD: 
REQUIRED: 0
PROVIDED: 73
COMPACT: 
REQUIRED: 0
PROVIDED: 0 
VISITOR:
REQUIRED: 0
PROVIDED: 0
ASSIGNED:
REQUIRED: 0
PROVIDED: 73
UNASSIGNED: 
REQUIRED: 0
PROVIDED: 0
LVL 2 EVCS, 40 AMP (15% STALLS)
LVL 2 EVCS STANDARD (NON-ADA)
REQUIRED: 9
PROVIDED: 9
LVL 2 EVCS ADA VAN:
REQUIRED: 1
PROVIDED: 1
LVL 2 EVCS ACCESSIBLE AISLE (1:25 STALLS)
REQUIRED: 1
PROVIDED: 1
LVL 2 EVCS TOTAL STALLS:
REQUIRED: 11
PROVIDED: 11
LVL 2 EV-READY W/ RECEPTACLE, 20 AMP (85% STALLS)
LVL 2 RECEPTACLE STANDARD (NON-ADA)
REQUIRED: 56
PROVIDED: 56 [EXCLUDES 4 TANDEM STALLS]
LVL 2 RECEPTACLE ADA STANDARD
REQUIRED: 1
PROVIDED: 1
LVL 2 RECEPTACLE ADA VAN
REQUIRED: 1
PROVIDED: 1
LVL 2 RECEPTACLE TOTAL STALLS:
REQUIRED: 58
PROVIDED: 58
TOTAL STALLS: 
REQUIRED: 0
PROVIDED: 73
PARKING SUMMARY
FACADE DESIGN
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 7.1.1.B
BUILDING FAÇADE DESIGN SHALL INCLUDE A CHANGE IN THE STREET-FRONTING FAÇADE THROUGH THE 
USE OF VERTICAL RECESSES OR PROJECTIONS, BUILDING HEIGHT, AND/OR COLORS AND MATERIALS AT 
INTERVALS OF TWENTY-FIVE (25) TO FIFTY (50)-FEET.
MASSING BREAKS
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 4.1.7.A.3.B
B.  THE TOP SHALL BE DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE BASE AND BODY BY AT LEAST TWO (2) OF THE 
FOLLOWING: 
I. BUILDING MATERIAL
II. WALL PLANE BREAK (MINIMUM OF TWO [2] FEET IN DEPTH AND FIVE [5] FEET IN LENGTH)
III. STEPBACK (MINIMUM TEN [10] FEET ALONG ALL BUILDING FACADES)
IV. COLOR
V. EAVES
VI. PROJECTED ROOF OVERHANG (MINIMUM EIGHTEEN [18] INCHES)
VII. STEPPED PARAPETS
VIII. ROOF CORNICE OR DISTINGUISHING ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENT(S) SUCH AS OVERHANGS, 
PERGOLAS, ETC. ON THE UPPERMOST FLOOR
MASSING AND ARTICULATION
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 7.7.1.D
ARCHITECTURAL STYLES AND MATERIALS. BUILDINGS SHALL INCORPORATE AT LEAST ONE (1) OF THE 
FOLLOWING PER UNIT ON ALL STREET-FACING FACADES:
1. PORCH(ES)
2. BAY WINDOW(S)
3. DECORATIVE WALL(S) UP TO A MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF THREE (3) FEET
4. WINDOW BOX(ES)
CODE SUMMARY
MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT
85'-0" TO AVG ROOF HEIGHT MEASURED FROM GRADE PLANE
OCCUPANCY GROUPS 
RESIDENTIAL : 
R-2
STORAGE (GARAGE) : S-2
CONSTRUCTION TYPE 
R-2
: TYPE IIIA, FULLY SPRINKLERED
S-2
: TYPE IA, FULLY SPRINKLERED
R-2
: TYPE IA, FULLY SPRINKLERED
THE BUILDING SHALL COMPLY WITH THE 2022 CFC SECTION 510 FOR ERCCS COVERAGE 
BASE ALLOWABLE GROSS FLOOR AREA / HEIGHTS / CONSTRUCTION TYPES
BASE ALLOWABLE AREA PER FLOOR PER TABLE 506.2 FOR TYPE I-A:
S-2 
UNLIMITED SF
R-2 
UNLIMITED SF
BASE ALLOWABLE HEIGHT & STORIES PER TABLE 504.3 & 504 FOR TYPE I-A:
S-2
UNLIMITED SF
R-2 
UNLIMITED SF 
BASE ALLOWABLE HEIGHT & STORIES W/OUT AREA INCREASE W/ AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
R-2 
65 FEET / 4 STORIES 
R-2 
85 FEET / 5 STORIES W/OUT AREA INCREASE W/ AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
SEE G021 FOR AREA INCREASE CALCULATION PER CBC 506.2 FOR TYPE III-A CONSTRUCTION
FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS : 
3 HOUR HORIZONTAL SEPARATION BETWEEN TYPE I-A & TYPE III-A REQUIREMENTS PER STRUCTURAL 510.2  
HORIZONTAL BUILDING SEPARATION ALLOWANCE 
TYPE I-A CONSTRUCTION : FIRE RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS PER TABLE 601 : 
STRUCTURAL FRAME 
3 HR
REDUCE TO 2 HR FOR ROOF SUPPORT
EXTERIOR BEARING WALLS 
3 HR 
INTERIOR BEARING WALLS 
3 HR 
REDUCED TO 2 HR FOR ROOF SUPPORT 
INTERIOR NONBEARING WALLS 
0 HR
FLOOR CONSTRUCTION 
2 HR 
ROOF CONSTRUCTION 
1 1/2 HR 
TYPE III-A CONSTRUCTION : FIRE RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING ELEMENTS PER TABLE 601 :
STRUCTURAL FRAME 
1 HR
EXTERIOR BEARING WALLS 
2 HR 
INTERIOR BEARING WALLS 
1 HR 
EXTERIOR BEARING WALLS & PARTITIONS 
SEE BELOW
INTERIOR NONBEARING WALLS & PARTITIONS
0 HR
FLOOR CONSTRUCTION (BEAMS & JOISTS)
1  HR 
ROOF CONSTRUCTION 
(BEAMS & JOISTS)
2 HR
SHAFT / STAIRWAY ENCLOSURES 
2 HR
FIRE-RESISTANCE RATING REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTERIOR WALLS BASED ON FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE FOR TYPE 
I-A & III-A CONSTRUCTION AND OCCUPANCY PER TABLE 602 : 
FIRE SEP DIST.
OCCUPANCIES GROUP R-2 & S-2
X < 5
1 HR 
5 </= X <10
1 HR
10 </= X <30 
1 HR
X >/= 30
0 HR
ACCESSIBILITY
100% OF UNITS SHALL BE ADAPTABLE, PER 2022 CBC CHAPTER 11A.
ALL COMMON USE AREAS SHALL BE ACCESSIBLE PER 2022 CBC CHAPTER 11A
ALL PUBLIC AREAS SHALL BE ACCESSIBLE PER 2022 CBC CHAPTER 11B
21,120 SF
21,120 SF
21,120 SF
21,120 SF
LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS
SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE, SEC. 27.64.390A
SCHEDULE OF LOADING REQUIREMENTS
REQUIRED: THE REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-STREET LOADING BERTHS MAY BE MODIFIED BY ONE OF THE 
FOLLOWING MEANS:
(A) APPROVAL OF A SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR) BY THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR, 
BASED ON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS:
(1) ADEQUATE ON-STREET PARKING IS AVAILABLE ALONG A PARCEL FRONTAGE TO ACCOMMODATE 
A LOADING BERTH;
(2) THE ON-STREET PARKING INTENDED FOR TEMPORARY LOADING PURPOSES IS LOCATED AT 
LEAST 50 FEET FROM ANY INTERSECTIONS, AND PROVIDES CONVENIENT ACCESS TO BUILDING 
ENTRANCES; AND
(3) THE STREET WIDTH IS ADEQUATE TO ACCOMMODATE LOADING VEHICLES WITHOUT IMPEDING 
USE OF THE SIDEWALK OR LOCAL TRAFFIC CIRCULATION OR OTHERWISE BE DETRIMENTAL TO 
PUBLIC SAFETY; OR
(B) APPROVAL OF A VARIANCE APPLICATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH CHAPTER 27.78.
TURNING RADII
SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE, SEC. 27.64.130
27.64.130 TURNING RADII AND TURNAROUND REQUIREMENTS.
REQUIRED: (E) TURNING AISLES OR RAMPS WITH TWO-WAY TRAFFIC SHALL HAVE RADII AND AISLE 
WIDTHS SUFFICIENT FOR TWO (2) AUTOMOBILES TO PASS ON THE TURN. RAMP WIDTHS ON TURNS SHALL 
BE AS FOLLOWS:
MINIMUM TWO-WAY RAMP WIDTH
CURB TO CURB:   24′
WALL TO WALL:    28′
MINIMUM TWO-WAY RADIUS
TO INSIDE WALL: 16'
TO INSIDE CURB: 18'
PROPOSED: THE DIMENSIONS OF THE PROPOSED TWO-WAY TRAFFIC RAMP ARE FEASIBLE BASED ON 
VEHICLE TURN STUDIES SHOWING THAT PASSENGER VEHICLES AT SLOW SPEEDS COMMON INSIDE A 
GARAGE CAN SAFELY  MANEUVER. INCREASING THE SIZE OF THE PROPOSED RAMP WOULD REQUIRE A 
LARGER GARAGE AND WOULD RESULT IN THE LOSS OF ALL OF THE GROUND STORY TOWNHOME UNITS. 
MASSING BREAKS
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 4.1.7.B.2
2. VERTICAL WALL PLANE BREAKS. ARTICULATION SHALL BE PROVIDED ON ALL BUILDING FACADES. THIS 
SHALL BE
ACCOMPLISHED BY INCORPORATING AT LEAST THREE (3) OF THE FOLLOWING:
A. ROOF CORNICE ON THE TOP FLOOR
B. A STEPBACK OR PROJECTION OF A MINIMUM OF FIVE (5) FEET IN DEPTH BETWEEN THE BASE AND THE
BODY OF THE BUILDING, MEANING THE BODY CAN BE RECESSED OR PROJECTED RELATIVE TO THE BASE.
ALONG THE PRIMARY AND SECONDARY FRONTAGES, PROJECTIONS FROM THE BASE SHALL ONLY OCCUR 
ON THE
BODY OF THE BUILDING. NO WALL PLANE SHALL EXTEND INTO THE REQUIRED SETBACK OR PUBLIC 
RIGHT-OFWAY.
C. CHANGE IN BUILDING MATERIAL OR COLOR BETWEEN THE BASE AND BODY CHARACTERIZED BY A 
MINIMUM
TWELVE (12)-INCH OFFSET FROM THE SURROUNDING BUILDING WALL
D. A STEPBACK OF A MINIMUM TEN (10)-FEET IMMEDIATELY ABOVE THE BUILDING BASE OR FOR THE TOP
FLOOR
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G002
PROJECT
INFORMATION
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
SHEET INDEX - FORMAL LAND USE
Sheet Number
Sheet Name
LAND USE 
REVISION 01
REVISION 02
REVISION 03
GENERAL
G000
COVER
X
X
X
X
G002
PROJECT INFORMATION
X
X
X
G003
SURVEY / EXISTING SITE PLAN
X
X
X
X
G004
SITE CONTEXT
X
X
X
X
G010
WAIVER DIAGRAMS
X
X
X
X
G011
WAIVER DIAGRAMS
X
X
X
G015
SHADOW STUDIES
X
X
X
G020
ALLOWABLE AREA PLANS
X
X
X
G021
ALLOWABLE AREA PLANS
X
X
X
G030
EGRESS PLANS
X
X
X
X
G031
EGRESS PLANS
X
X
X
X
G032
EGRESS PLANS
X
X
X
X
G033
EGRESS PLANS
X
X
X
X
G034
EGRESS PLANS
X
X
X
X
G035
EGRESS PLANS
X
X
X
X
G036
EGRESS PLANS
X
X
X
X
G037
EGRESS PLANS
X
X
X
X
G038
EGRESS PLANS
X
X
X
X
G040
ALLOWABLE OPENING / MECH SCREEN DIAGRAMS
X
X
X
G041
AFFORDABLE UNIT LOCATIONS
X
X
X
G100
RENDERINGS
X
X
X
X
G101
RENDERINGS
X
X
X
X
G102
RENDERINGS
X
X
X
X
G103
RENDERINGS
X
X
X
X
G104
RENDERINGS
X
X
X
X
G105
RENDERINGS
X
X
X
X
G106
RENDERINGS
X
X
X
CIVIL
C1.0
EXISTING CONDITIONS
X
X
X
X
C2.0
PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN
X
X
X
X
C2.1
STREET SECTIONS
X
X
X
X
C3.0
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN
X
X
X
X
C4.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN
X
X
X
X
C5.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
X
X
X
X
LANDSCAPE
L0.01
ARBORIST REPORT & TREE FORM
X
X
X
L0.02
ARBORIST REPORT & TREE FORM
X
X
X
L0.03
ARBORIST REPORT & TREE FORM
X
X
X
L1.01
LANDSCAPE PLAN LEVEL 1
X
X
X
X
L1.02
LANDSCAPE PLAN LEVEL 3
X
X
X
X
L1.03
MATERIAL PLAN LEVEL 8
X
X
X
L2.01
PLANTING PLAN SITE
X
X
X
L2.02
PLANTING PLAN LEVEL 3
X
X
X
L2.03
PLANTING PLAN LEVEL 8
X
X
X
L3.01
IRRIGATION PLAN SITE
X
X
X
L3.02
IRRIGATION PLAN LEVEL 3
X
X
X
L3.03
IRRIGATION PLAN LEVEL 8
X
X
X
L5.01
SITE FURNISHINGS
X
X
X
ARCHITECTURAL
A010
CONTEXT SITE PLAN
X
X
X
A011
SITE PLAN
X
X
X
X
A100
P1 FLOOR PLAN
X
X
X
X
A101
GROUND STORY PLAN
X
X
X
X
A102
2ND STORY PLAN
X
X
X
X
A103
3RD STORY PLAN
X
X
X
X
A104
4TH STORY PLAN
X
X
X
X
A105
5TH STORY PLAN
X
X
X
X
A106
6TH STORY PLAN
X
X
X
X
A107
7TH STORY PLAN
X
X
X
X
A108
8TH STORY PLAN
X
X
X
X
A109
ROOF PLAN
X
X
X
X
A200
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
X
X
X
X
A201
EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
X
X
X
X
A220
BUILDING MATERIALS
X
X
X
X
A300
BUILDING SECTIONS
X
X
X
X
A500
EXTERIOR DETAILS
X
X
A501
EXTERIOR OPENING DETAILS
X
X
X
A701
PRELIMINARY LIGHTING AND SIGNAGE PLANS
X
X
X
A702
PRELIMINARY LIGHTING AND SIGNAGE PLANS
X
X
X
A703
PRELIMINARY LIGHTING AND SIGNAGE PLANS
X
X
X
A708
PRELIMINARY LIGHTING AND SIGNAGE PLANS
X
X
X
A900
WINDOWS
X
X
X
X
TRASH
TR0.1
SITE PLAN
X
X
X
TR1.0
TRASH ROOMS
X
X
X
NOTE: GROSS AREA MEASUREMENTS ARE MEASURED TO RENTABLE AREA STANDARD, NOT CBC STANDARDS.
FOR SPECIFIC AREA MEASUREMENTS RELATED TO CHAPTER 5, SEE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA INFORMATION ON G002.  
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 86 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G003
SURVEY / EXISTING
SITE PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 87 ---
2 3
1
4
6
7
8
9
5
10
11
12
13
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G004
SITE CONTEXT
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
9-BLOCK AERIAL 
2. NORTH INTERSECTION (S Eldorado St & 3rd Ave)
3. NORTH INTERSECTION (S Eldorado St & 3rd Ave)
1. NORTH INTERSECTION (S Eldorado St & 3rd Ave)
4. METROPOLITAN WEST ENTRANCE (S Eldorado St)
6. WEST INTERSECTION (S Delaware St & 3rd Ave)
7. WEST INTERSECTION (S Delaware St & 3rd Ave)
5. WEST INTERSECTION (S Delaware St & 3rd Ave)
8. “BLOCK 21” APPROVED (S Delaware St)
9. “BLOCK 20” UNDER REVIEW (S Delaware St)
10. ELEVATION AT S ELDORADO ST
12. ELEVATION AT S DELAWARE ST
11. ELEVATION AT 4TH AVE
13. ELEVATION AT 3RD AVE
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 88 ---
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
STOP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
STOP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
STOP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
STOP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
SHOP
UNIT
83' - 9"
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
STAIR
CORR.
CORR.
CORR.
CORR.
CORR.
CORR.
CORRIDOR
CORR.
CORR.
CORR.
CORR.
CORR.
CORR.
UTILITY
MAX HEIGHT LIMIT: 
(PER 2040 GENERAL PLAN)
PL
PL
PROPOSED: 8 STORY BUILDING
4 - 6 STORIES
UTILITY
UTILITY
UTILITY
UTILITY
UTILITY
TRASH
LOBBY
AMENITY
CORR.
STAIR
P1
90' - 2"
UTILITY
PARKING
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
BIKES
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
LOBBY & LEASING
CORRIDOR
ELEVATORS
TOWNHOME
TRANSFORMER
115' - 6"
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
14' - 5 1/4"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
14' - 2 1/2"
6' - 0"
5' - 0"
PL
30' - 0"
STEPBACK PER ODS
8' - 0" REQ'D
AMENITY
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
LOBBY
PARKING
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
30' - 0"
PL
STEPBACK PER ODS
8' - 0" REQ'D
P1
90' - 2"
PARKING
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
PL
25' - 0"
STEPBACK PER ODS
8' - 0" REQ'D
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
TRASH / 
MOVE IN
UNIT
P1
90' - 2"
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
5
G010
6
G010
8
G010
11
G010
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
P1
90' - 2"
UNIT
UNIT
4' - 8"
RESTRICTED CLEARANCE 
AT CORRIDOR 
6' - 8"
RESTRICTED 
CLEARANCE AT UNIT 
18" x 42" REQUESTED UNIT ENTRY ZONE 
5' - 6"
RESTRICTED CLEARANCE 
HEIGHT AT GARAGE 
1' - 6"
3' - 6"
1' - 6"
3' - 6"
3
G010
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
APPOX GRADE: 
99.89'
APPOX GRADE: 
99.72'
APPOX GRADE: 
99.55'
APPOX GRADE: 
99.22'
F.F. : 100.72'
(+10")
F.F. : 100.72'
(+12")
F.F. : 100.72'
(+14")
F.F. : 100.72'
(+18")
ACCESSIBILE CORRIDOR
APPOX GRADE: 
99.16'
SLOPE
PL
25' - 0"
STEPBACK PER ODS
8' - 0" REQ'D
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
UNIT
COURTYARD
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G010
WAIVER DIAGRAMS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1/32" = 1'-0"
G010
1
BUILDING SECTION - E/W
1/32" = 1'-0"
G010
2
GROUND STORY PLAN - BLANK WALL DIAGRAM
1/32" = 1'-0"
G010
4
GROUND STORY PLAN - SETBACKS DIAGRAM
1/16" = 1'-0"
G010
6
SECTION - 3RD AVE
1/16" = 1'-0"
G010
5
SECTION - 3RD AVE
1/16" = 1'-0"
G010
8
SECTION - S ELDORADO ST
1/32" = 1'-0"
G010
7
GROUND STORY PLAN - RESIDENTIAL ENTRIES DIAGRAM
BUILDING HEIGHT
SETBACKS
RESIDENTIAL ENTRIES
GROUND FLOOR
STEPBACKS
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 4.2.1
GROUND FLOOR REQUIREMENTS: RESIDENTIAL
REQUIRED: ENTRIES TO GROUND-FLOOR RESIDENTIAL UNITS SHALL BE LOCATED EIGHTEEN (18) TO FORTY-TWO (42) INCHES ABOVE OR BELOW THE GRADE OF THE ADJACENT PUBLIC SIDEWALK. 
PROPOSED: UNITS ENTRIES RANGE FROM 10" - 21" ABOVE EXTERIOR GRADE. ANY ADDITIONAL HEIGHT AT THE ENTRIES WOULD CREATE HEAD CLEARANCE RESTRICTIONS AT THE ACCESSIBLE CORRIDOR AND UNITS. 
ADDITIONALLY, LOCATING THE UNIT ENTRIES 18" - 42" BELOW EXTERIOR GRADE WOULD CREATE CLEARANCE RESTRICTIONS AT THE UNDERGROUND PARKING LEVEL. 
3 IMPACTED UNITS 
2040 GENERAL PLAN, CHAPTER 2: TABLE LU-1 LAND USE DESIGNATIONS
DESIGNATION: MIXED USE MEDIUM II
REQUIRED: 4-6 STORIES 
NET LOSS OF 39 UNITS ON 7TH & 8TH STORIES
21 UNITS ON 7TH STORY; 18 UNITS ON 8TH STORY
PROPOSED: 8 STORIES
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 7.7.1.B.1 & 7.7.1.B.2
MASSING & ARTICULATION: STEPBACKS
REQUIRED: 7.7.1.B.2 ALONG NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS: ABOVE TWENTY-FIVE (25) FEET BUILDING HEIGHT, AN ADDITIONAL EIGHT (8)-FOOT MINIMUM STEPBACK SHALL BE PROVIDED ALONG THE RIGHT-OF-WAY FACADE  
PROPOSED : THE BUILDING FEATURES VARIED MASSING WITH PORTIONS STEPPING BACK ABOVE THE SECOND STORY AND OTHERS EXTENDING CLOSER TO THE RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW). THIS MODULATION MAXIMIZES 
THE DENSITY BONUS ALLOWED UNDER SB330 WHILE MAINTAINING ADAQUATE CLEARANCES ALONG DELAWARE FROM THE OVERHEAD POWER LINES. THE ELDORADO FRONTAGE, AS A RESULT OF THE POWERLINE 
CLEARANCES, IS REQUIRED TO BE AS SHONW IN ORDER TO PROVIDE ADEQUATE SQUARE FOOTAGE FOR THE THREE UNITS AT EACH STORY OF THE BUILDING.
23 UNITS IMPACTED
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 7.7.3.2.B & 7.7.3.3A
WINDOWS, DOORS, AND ENTRY DESIGN: RESIDENTIAL ENTRIES
REQUIRED: 2.B. ON NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS OPEN PORCHES MAY EXTEND INTO THE FRONT SETBACK AREA UP TO WITHIN TEN (10) FEET OF THE PROPERTY LINE.
3.A. ALONG THE SOUTH SIDE OF THIRD AVENUE AND ALL OF FOURTH AVENUE PORCHES SHALL BE ALLOWED WITHIN THE FRONT SETBACK AREA UP TO WITHIN TEN (10) FEET OF THE PROPERTY LINE. 
PROPOSED : PORCHES PROVIDE A BUFFER AND PRIVACY TO BEDROOMS LOCATED DIRECTLY BEHIND. LOCATING PORCHES PER THE ODS (10' FROM THE PL) LIMITS THE DEPTH AND VIABILITY OF THE GROUND STORY 
UNITS. 
4 UNITS IMPACTED
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 7.7.1.A.2 & 7.7.1.A.3
MASSING & ARTICULATION: SETBACKS
REQUIRED: THE FOLLOWING SETBACKS SHALL SUPERSEDE THOSE REQUIRED FOR THE ZONING DISTRICT IN WHICH THE PROJECT IS LOCATED:
A.2. ALONG THE SOUTH SIDE OF THIRD AVENUE AND ALL OF FOURTH AVENUE: FIFTEEN (15) TO TWENTY (20) FEET FROM THE PROPERTY LINE 
A.3. ALONG NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS: FIFTEEN (15) TO TWENTY (20) FEET FROM THE PROPERTY LINE 
PROPOSED: PROVIDING THE REQUIRED SETBACKS ON THE GROUND STORY WOULD IMPACT THE VIABILITY OF THE UNITS BY REDUCING THEIR DEPTH TO AN UNOCCUPIABLE SIZE. FURTHERMORE, A SETBACK ON THE 
GROUND STORY INCREASES THE STEPBACK REQUIRED ON THE UPPER LEVELS FURTHER LIMITING THE PROJECT'S ABITILITY TO PROVIDE ADEQUATELY DEEP UNITS AND TO MEET THE ALLOWED UNIT DENSITY PER 
DENSITY BONUS LAW.
4 UNITS IMPACTED
PROPOSED:   
AREA WITHIN MIN SETBACK
   
AREA BEYOND MAX SETBACK 
  
(UTILIZED FOR PUBLIC ACCESSIBLE OPEN SPACE)
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 7.7.1.B.1 & 7.7.1.B.2
MASSING & ARTICULATION: STEPBACKS
REQUIRED: 7.71.B.1 ALONG THE SOUTH SIDE OF THIRD AVENUE AND ALL OF FOURTH AVENUE: ABOVE THIRTY (30) FEET OF BUILDING HEIGHT, AN ADDITIONAL EIGHT (8)-FOOT MINIMUM STEPBACK SHALL BE PROVIDED 
ALONG THE RIGHT-OF-WAY FACADE 
PROPOSED : THE BUILDING FEATURES VARIED MASSING WITH PORTIONS STEPPING BACK ABOVE THE SECOND STORY. THE STEPBACKS PROVIDED ALONG 3RD AVENUE ALLOW FOR THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF UNITS 
ALLOWED BY DENSITY BONUS LAW. FURTHER REDUCING THE DEPTH OF THE UNITS WITH GREATER SETBACKS IMPACTS THE VIABILITY OF THE DWELLING UNITS DUE TO THE SHALLOW UNIT DEPTH
34 UNITS IMPACTED
BLANK WALLS
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC 4.1.1
MASSING & ARTICULATION: BLANK WALLS
REQUIRED: BLANK WALLS SHALL BE LIMITED TO A MAXIMUM OF TWENTY (20) FEET IN LENGTH ON ALL STORIES. 
BLANK WALL: A GROUND-FLOOR WALL OR PORTION OF A GROUND-FLOOR WALL OVER TEN (10) FEET IN HEIGHT AND A HORIZONTAL LENGTH GREATER THAN TWENTY (20) FEET AND DOES NOT INCLUDE A TRANSPARENT 
WINDOW OR DOOR.
PROPOSED: UTILITIES ARE GROUPED ON STREET FRONTAGE PER PG&E REQUIREMENTS
1/16" = 1'-0"
G010
3
SECTION - 3RD AVE TOWNHOME
STEPBACKS
N
N
N
RESTRICTED HEAD CLEARANCE
UNIT ENTRY REQUIRED HEIGHT ZONE (18"-42" ABV OR BEOLW GRADE)
1/16" = 1'-0"
G010
11
SECTION - S DELAWARE ST
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 89 ---
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
STOP
PROPERTYLINE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
STOP
PROPERTYLINE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
22' - 8"
49' - 4"
5' - 0"
19' - 7"
24' - 6"
22' - 9"
36' - 0"
20' - 9"
CL
CL
CL
CL
CL
PRIMARY BUILDING 
MODULATION LINES
RECESSED BALCONY LINES
5' - 2"
10' - 0"
PORCHES
BALCONIES
JULIET BALCONIES
BALCONIES
JULIET BALCONIES
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
LOADING ZONE & TRASH STAGING
PARKING 
ENTRY
38' - 7"
25' - 0"
8' - 0"
UP
DN
1' - 0"
24' - 0"
1' - 0"
R 14' - 7"
R 13' - 0"
R 39' - 7"
R 38' - 7"
1' - 0"
24' - 0"
1' - 0"
26' - 0"
27' - 2 1/2"
26' - 0"
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G011
WAIVER DIAGRAMS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
FACADE DESIGN
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC. 7.1.1.B
REQUIRED: BUILDING FAÇADE DESIGN SHALL INCLUDE A CHANGE IN THE STREET-FRONTING FAÇADE THROUGH THE USE OF VERTICAL RECESSES OR PROJECTIONS, BUILDING HEIGHT, AND/OR COLORS AND 
MATERIALS AT INTERVALS OF TWENTY-FIVE (25) TO FIFTY (50)-FEET.
PROPOSED: FURTHER MODULATING THE FACADE PUSHES THE HIGHLIGHTED STACK OF UNITS FURTHER INTO THE BUILDING. BECAUSE OF THE NARROW 'L' SHAPED SITE, SHIFTING UNITS INTO THE BUILDING PUSHES 
THE UNITS TOO CLOSE TO THE SHARED PROPERTY LINE (SEE PLAN DIMENSION CALLOUT) TO ALLOW ADEQUATE OPENINGS PER CBC TABLE 705.8. THE DESIGN ACHIEVES THE INTENT OF THE OBJECTIVE STANDARD 
WITH THE RECESSED BALCONIES AT THE REQUIRED INTERVALS. A WAIVER IS PREEMPTIVELY REQUESTED TO ADDRESS FEEDBACK FROM PLANNERS TO FURTHER MODULATE THE FACADE.
29 UNITS IMPACTED
N
1/32" = 1'-0"
G011
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTHWEST
MASSING BREAKS
MASSING AND ARTICULATION
1/32" = 1'-0"
G011
2
LEVEL 04 FLOOR PLAN
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC. 7.7.1.D
REQUIRED:
ARCHITECTURAL STYLES AND MATERIALS. BUILDINGS SHALL INCORPORATE AT LEAST ONE (1) OF THE FOLLOWING PER UNIT ON ALL STREET-FACING FACADES:
1. PORCH(ES)
2. BAY WINDOW(S)
3. DECORATIVE WALL(S) UP TO A MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF THREE (3) FEET
4. WINDOW BOX(ES)
PROPOSED: THE PROJECT IS DESIGNED IN THE SPANISH REVIVAL/CALIFORNIA MEDITERRANEAN STYLE, WITH CONSISTENT DETAILING ACROSS ALL FAÇADES. DUE TO THE SITE'S LOCATION WITHIN OVERLAPPING 
SPECIFIC PLAN AREAS, SOME RESIDENTIAL-SCALE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FROM SECTION 7.7.1.D OF THE THE VISION OF THE GATEWAY PLAN AREA ARE NOT APPROPRIATE FOR A BUILDING SIZED FOR THE 
DOWNTOWN SPECIFIC PLAN. THEREFORE, THE DESIGN TEAM REQUESTS A WAIVER OF SECTION 7.7.1.D. DESPITE THIS, THE DESIGN IMPLEMENTS DETAILS THAT WE FEEL MEET THE INTENT OF BOTH PLAN AREAS, 
SPECIFICALLY 7.7.1.D, BY INCORPORATING:
•4 PORCHES AT TOWNHOMES
•72 RECESSED BALCONIES/TERRACES FOR UPPER-LEVEL UNITS
•52 JULIET BALCONIES AT URBAN 1-BED UNITS
THE RECESSED BALCONIES MEET THE INTENT FOR PORCHES AND JULIET RAILINGS MEET THE INTENT FOR DECORATIVE PARTIAL HEIGHT WALLS. NEITHER A PORCH, OR PARTIAL HEIGHT WALL IS FEASIBLE AT UPPER 
LEVEL UNITS. ADDITIONALLY, IN RESPONSE TO SECTIONS 7.1.2.A & 7.7.2.A, WE NOTE THAT REQUIRING EACH UNIT TO HAVE A BAY WINDOW OF A DIFFERENT MATERIAL WOULD RESULT IN AN EXCESSIVE USE OF ACCENT 
MATERIALS, CONFLICTING WITH THE INTENDED DESIGN HIERARCHY. FINALLY, WINDOW BOXES—WHICH ARE NOT CLEARLY DEFINED IN CHAPTER 8 BUT ASSUMED TO MEAN WINDOW PLANTER BOXES—WHICH WOULD BE 
LOCATED AT THE FLOOR LINE WHERE THE WINDOW SILL IS LOCATED, ARE IMPRACTICAL AND UNSAFE AT UPPER LEVELS, POSE MAINTENANCE CHALLENGES FOR PROPERTY MANAGERS, AND ARE UNLIKELY TO BE 
PROPERLY MAINTAINED BY RESIDENTS. WE BELIEVE THE PROPOSED DESIGN MEETS THE SPIRIT AND INTENT OF THE APPLICABLE GUIDELINES, WHILE ADDRESSING SCALE, FEASIBILITY, AND LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE.
1/32" = 1'-0"
G011
4
LEVEL 01 FLOOR PLAN
1/32" = 1'-0"
G011
5
LEVEL 03 FLOOR PLAN
1/32" = 1'-0"
G011
6
LEVELS 04-07 TYPICAL
N
N
N
1/32" = 1'-0"
G011
3
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTHWEST
OBJECTIVE DESIGN STANDARDS, SEC. 4.1.7.A.3.b
REQUIRED:
B.  THE TOP SHALL BE DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE BASE AND BODY BY AT LEAST TWO (2) OF THE FOLLOWING: 
I. BUILDING MATERIAL
II. WALL PLANE BREAK (MINIMUM OF TWO [2] FEET IN DEPTH AND FIVE [5] FEET IN LENGTH)
III. STEPBACK (MINIMUM TEN [10] FEET ALONG ALL BUILDING FACADES)
IV. COLOR
V. EAVES
VI. PROJECTED ROOF OVERHANG (MINIMUM EIGHTEEN [18] INCHES)
VII. STEPPED PARAPETS
VIII. ROOF CORNICE OR DISTINGUISHING ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENT(S) SUCH AS OVERHANGS, PERGOLAS, ETC. ON THE UPPERMOST FLOOR
PROPOSED: THE PROJECT TEAM HAS RESPONDED TO DIRECT FEEDBACK FROM STAFF AND FROM THE PUBLIC FROM THE TIME OF THE INITIAL SUBMITTAL THROUGH THIS RESUBMITTAL. AT THE 8TH STORY, THE 
BUILDING DESIGN PROPOSES AT LEAST TWO OF THE FOLLOWING ON EACH FAÇADE:
•BUILDING MATERIAL SHIFT
•A WALL PLANE BREAK (2FT IN DEPTH, 5FT IN WIDTH)
•A STEPBACK (AT LEAST 10FT)
•PROJECTED ROOF OVERHANG (MINIMUM OF 18 IN)
•ROOF CORNICE OR DISTINGUISHING ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENT SUCH AS OVERHANGS, PERGOLAS, ETC. ON THE UPPERMOST FLOORS.
ADDITIONALLY, THE PROPOSED BUILDING MASS DIRECTLY ADDRESSES TWO STANDARDS OUTLINED IN THE SPECIFIC PLAN AREAS WHICH THIS SITE IS LOCATED WITHIN. 7.1.2.B & 7.7.2.B PRESCRIBE THAT STRUCTURES 
SHALL INCLUDE 7 OF 13 DESIGN ELEMENTS, TWO OF WHICH ARE MULTI-LEVEL ROOFS AND ASYMMETRICAL MASSING. THE DESIGN ADDRESSES THE INTENT OF THIS STANDARD ON ALL FACADES AS WELL AS 
ADDRESSES THE STANDARDS OF THE SPECIFIC PLAN AREAS WHICH ACCORDING TO 2.2.D SUPERSEDE CITY-WIDE REQUIREMENTS. THIS WAIVER IS REQUESTED PREEMPTIVELY TO ADDRESS FEEDBACK FROM 
PLANNERS BOTH VERBALLY AND IN THE ODS RESPONSES ISSUED FOLLOWING THE FORMAL SUBMITTAL IN MARCH.
LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS
SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE, SEC. 27.64.390A
SCHEDULE OF LOADING REQUIREMENTS
REQUIRED: THE REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-STREET LOADING BERTHS MAY BE MODIFIED BY ONE OF THE FOLLOWING MEANS:
(A) APPROVAL OF A SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW (SPAR) BY THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR, BASED ON THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS:
(1) ADEQUATE ON-STREET PARKING IS AVAILABLE ALONG A PARCEL FRONTAGE TO ACCOMMODATE A LOADING BERTH;
(2) THE ON-STREET PARKING INTENDED FOR TEMPORARY LOADING PURPOSES IS LOCATED AT LEAST 50 FEET FROM ANY INTERSECTIONS, AND PROVIDES CONVENIENT ACCESS TO BUILDING ENTRANCES; AND
(3) THE STREET WIDTH IS ADEQUATE TO ACCOMMODATE LOADING VEHICLES WITHOUT IMPEDING USE OF THE SIDEWALK OR LOCAL TRAFFIC CIRCULATION OR OTHERWISE BE DETRIMENTAL TO PUBLIC SAFETY; OR
(B) APPROVAL OF A VARIANCE APPLICATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH CHAPTER 27.78.
PROPOSED: DUE TO A DRIVE ENTRY BEING PROHIBITED OFF OF 3RD AVE OR DELAWARE ST, AND DUE TO THE NATURE OF THE SITE AND THE NARROW WIDTH FROM THE 3RD AVE CURB TO THE PROPERY LINE, WE ARE LIMITED 
TO THE CURRENT PARKING ENTRY LOCATION AND LOADING ZONE LOCATION ON ELDORADO ST. THE CURRENT PARKING ENTRY LOCATION DOES NOT ALLOW THE 50' REQUIRED DISTANCE FROM THE PROPOSED LOADING ZONE 
AND TRASH STAGING AREA TO THE INTERSECTION AT 3RD AND ELDORADO ST. 
TURNING RADII
1/16" = 1'-0"
G011
7
LEVEL 01 FLOOR PLAN
1/16" = 1'-0"
G011
8
LEVEL 01 FLOOR PLAN
SAN MATEO MUNICIPAL CODE, SEC. 27.64.130
27.64.130 TURNING RADII AND TURNAROUND REQUIREMENTS.
REQUIRED: (E) TURNING AISLES OR RAMPS WITH TWO-WAY TRAFFIC SHALL HAVE RADII AND AISLE WIDTHS SUFFICIENT FOR TWO (2) AUTOMOBILES TO PASS ON THE TURN. RAMP WIDTHS ON TURNS SHALL BE AS FOLLOWS:
MINIMUM TWO-WAY RAMP WIDTH
CURB TO CURB:   24′
WALL TO WALL:    28′
MINIMUM TWO-WAY RADIUS
TO INSIDE WALL: 16'
TO INSIDE CURB: 18'
PROPOSED: THE DIMENSIONS OF THE PROPOSED TWO-WAY TRAFFIC RAMP ARE FEASIBLE BASED ON VEHICLE TURN STUDIES SHOWING THAT PASSENGER VEHICLES AT SLOW SPEEDS COMMON INSIDE A GARAGE CAN SAFELY  
MANEUVER. INCREASING THE SIZE OF THE PROPOSED RAMP WOULD REQUIRE A LARGER GARAGE AND WOULD RESULT IN THE LOSS OF ALL OF THE GROUND STORY TOWNHOME UNITS. 
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 90 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G015
SHADOW STUDIES
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
SITE PLANS - SPRING EQUINOX - 1" = 100'
9:00 AM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
SITE PLANS - SUMMER SOLSTICE - 1" = 100'
9:00 AM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
SITE PLANS - FALL EQUINOX - 1" = 100'
9:00 AM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
SITE PLANS - WINTER SOLSTICE - 1" = 100'
9:00 AM
ELEVATIONS - SPRING EQUINOX - 1" = 40'
NW ELEVATION
SW ELEVATION
ELEVATIONS - SUMMER SOLSTICE - 1" = 40'
NW ELEVATION
SW ELEVATION
ELEVATIONS - FALL EQUINOX - 1" = 40'
NW ELEVATION
SW ELEVATION
ELEVATIONS - WINTER SOLSTICE - 1" = 40'
NW ELEVATION
SW ELEVATION
9:00 AM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
9:00 AM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
N
N
N
N
9:00 AM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
9:00 AM
9:00 AM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
9:00 AM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
9:00 AM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
9:00 AM
12:00 PM
3:00 PM
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 91 ---
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
STOP
PROPERTYLINE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
3RD AVENUE
S ELDORADO ST
S DELAWARE ST
Area
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G020
ALLOWABLE AREA
PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1" = 20'-0"
G020
1
P1
1" = 20'-0"
G020
2
GROUND STORY
1" = 20'-0"
G020
3
2ND STORY
1" = 20'-0"
G020
4
3RD STORY
*SEE 3/G021 FOR
AREA CALC
FC-3 (X)
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
TYPE III-A
24,000
50.00%
 24,000
12,000
 36,000
2
 72,000
5
5 STORIES /85 FT
5
 8,570
 42,850
 29,150
FC-2 (X)
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
TYPE III-A
24,000
50.00%
 24,000
12,000
 36,000
2
 72,000
5
5 STORIES /85 FT
5
 12,555
 62,775
 9,225
FC-1
A-2, B, S-1, S-2
MIX
OCCUPANCY
TYPE I-A
UL
-
 -
-
UL
3
UL
3
-
3
(X) WITH HEIGHT INCREASE
 FIRE COMPARTMENTS (FC) (X)
A t for SM
(I f)
NS
(NS x I f )
Equation 5-2
CHAPTER 3
TABLE 1004.1.2
TABLE 506.2
SEC. 506.3
SEC. 506.2.3
SEC. 506.2.3
SEC. 506.2.3
SEC. 506.2.3
SEC. 506.2.3
TABLE 504.4
TABLE 506.2
OCCUPANCY
USE
CONSTRUCTION
TYPE
ALLOWABLE
TABULAR AREA
FRONTAGE
ALLOWED %
ALLOWABLE
AREA FACTOR
FRONTAGE
ALLOWED SF
ALLOWABLE
FLOOR AREA
MULTI-STORY
ALLOWABLE
ALLOWABLE
AREA
ALLOWABLE NO.
STORIES
SPR. INCREASE
STORIES / HT.
NO. STORIES
*AREA PER
FLOOR (SQ FT)
PROPOSED*
TOTAL SF
PROPOSED
OVER / UNDER
STATUS
NOTE:
ALL BUILDINGS ARE FULLY SPRINKLERED PER NFPA 13
CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE:
2022
LATEST UPDATE: JUNE 25, 2025
GATEWAY, SAN MATEO CALIFORNIA
PROMETHEUS
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA CALCULATIONS
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 92 ---
FC-2
FC-3
FC-2
FC-3
FC-3
FC-2
COMPARTMENT 1 (FC-1)
(CONCRETE LEVELS) COMPLIANT
COMPARTMENT 2 (FC-2)
12,630 SF - LEVEL 4-7 (CALCULATED PER CBC 202 AREA, BUILDING)
12,480 - LEVEL 8 (CALCULATED PER CBC 202 AREA, BUILDING)
62,775 SF TOTAL AREA (5 FLOORS)
24,000 SF BASE ALLOWABLE AREA
EQUATION 5-2 Section 506.2.1: 72,000 SF ALLOWED
72,000 SF > 62,775 SF COMPLIANT
502'- 11" TOTAL PERIMETER
*256'-0 1/2" 25 OR GREATER OPEN SPACE
(*DIMENSIONS USED TO CALCULATE ALLOWABLE PERIMETER LENGTH)
51% OF BUILDING PERIMETER
0.50 30 OR GREATER OPEN SPACE
50% FRONTAGE INCREASE FACTOR TO ALLOW FOR 63,400 SF
COMPARTMENT 3 (FC-3)
8,570 SF - LEVEL 4-8 (CALCULATED PER CBC 202 AREA, BUILDING)
42,850 SF TOTAL AREA (5 FLOORS)
24,000 SF BASE ALLOWABLE AREA
EQUATION 5-2 Section 506.2.1: 72,000 SF ALLOWED
72,000 SF > 42,850 SF COMPLIANT
381'-4 1/2” TOTAL PERIMETER
**193’-2 3/4" 30 OR GREATER OPEN SPACE 
(**DIMENSIONS USED TO CALCULATE ALLOWABLE PERIMETER LENGTH)
50.6% OF BUILDING PERIMETER
0.50 30 OR GREATER OPEN SPACE
50% FRONTAGE INCREASE FACTOR TO ALLOW FOR 42,850 SF
144' - 2 1/4"
5' - 2 1/2"
24' - 1"
79' - 10 1/2"
9' - 10 1/4"
5' - 0 3/4"
87' - 9 1/2"
7' - 1 3/4"
101' - 2 1/2"
99' - 5 1/4"
9' - 11 3/4"
3RD AVENUE
S ELDORADO ST
S DELAWARE ST
15'-7 1/4"
55'-6"
**4'-11"
47'-6 3/4"
**87'-9 1/2"
**56'-9 1/4"
**1'-1"
**42'-8"
*24'-2"
*7'-7 3/4"
*77'-0 1/2"
*50'-8"
*1'-6"
*42'-10"
*1'-6"
*50'-8 1/4"
79'-10 1/2"
50'-8 1/4"
1'-11"
22'-6"
13'-4"
6'-3"
2'-10"
34'-7 1/2"
3'-3 1/2"
31'-6 3/4'
PERCENTAGE OF 
BUILDING PERIMETER
0 TO LESS THAN 25
25 TO LESS THAN 50
50 TO LESS THAN 75
75 TO 100
0
0
0
0
0 TO LESS
THAN 20
0
0.17
0.33
0.50
20 TO LESS
THAN 25
0
0.21
0.42
0.63
25 TO LESS
THAN 30
0
0.25
0.50
0.75
30 OR
GREATER
OPEN SPACE (FEET)
TABLE 506.3.3 FRONTAGE INCREASE FACTOR*
* INTERPOLATION IS PERMITTED.
COMPARTMENT 3 (FC-3) ALTERNATE PER CITY COMMENTS
8,570 SF - LEVEL 4-8 (CALCULATED PER CBC 202 AREA, BUILDING)
42,850 SF TOTAL AREA (5 FLOORS)
24,000 SF BASE ALLOWABLE AREA
EQUATION 5-2 Section 506.2.1: 60,000 SF ALLOWED
60,000 SF > 42,850 SF COMPLIANT
381'-4 1/2” TOTAL PERIMETER
**187'-0" 30 OR GREATER OPEN SPACE PER CITY COMMENT
(**THIS NUMBER WAS CITED IN THE CITY COMMENTS TO USE AS OUR PERIMETER LENGTH)
49% OF BUILDING PERIMETER
0.25 30 OR GREATER OPEN SPACE
25% FRONTAGE INCREASE FACTOR TO ALLOW FOR 42,850 SF
FC-2
FC-3
FC-2
FC-3
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G021
ALLOWABLE AREA
PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1" = 20'-0"
G021
1
4TH STORY
1" = 20'-0"
G021
2
5TH STORY
1" = 20'-0"
G021
3
6TH STORY
1" = 20'-0"
G021
4
7TH STORY
1" = 20'-0"
G021
5
8TH STORY
*SEE 3/G021 FOR
AREA CALC
FC-3 (X)
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
TYPE III-A
24,000
50.00%
 24,000
12,000
 36,000
2
 72,000
5
5 STORIES /85 FT
5
 8,570
 42,850
 29,150
FC-2 (X)
R-2
RESIDENTIAL
TYPE III-A
24,000
50.00%
 24,000
12,000
 36,000
2
 72,000
5
5 STORIES /85 FT
5
 12,555
 62,775
 9,225
FC-1
A-2, B, S-1, S-2
MIX
OCCUPANCY
TYPE I-A
UL
-
 -
-
UL
3
UL
3
-
3
(X) WITH HEIGHT INCREASE
 FIRE COMPARTMENTS (FC) (X)
A t for SM
(I f)
NS
(NS x I f )
Equation 5-2
CHAPTER 3
TABLE 1004.1.2
TABLE 506.2
SEC. 506.3
SEC. 506.2.3
SEC. 506.2.3
SEC. 506.2.3
SEC. 506.2.3
SEC. 506.2.3
TABLE 504.4
TABLE 506.2
OCCUPANCY
USE
CONSTRUCTION
TYPE
ALLOWABLE
TABULAR AREA
FRONTAGE
ALLOWED %
ALLOWABLE
AREA FACTOR
FRONTAGE
ALLOWED SF
ALLOWABLE
FLOOR AREA
MULTI-STORY
ALLOWABLE
ALLOWABLE
AREA
ALLOWABLE NO.
STORIES
SPR. INCREASE
STORIES / HT.
NO. STORIES
*AREA PER
FLOOR (SQ FT)
PROPOSED*
TOTAL SF
PROPOSED
OVER / UNDER
STATUS
NOTE:
ALL BUILDINGS ARE FULLY SPRINKLERED PER NFPA 13
CALIFORNIA BUILDING CODE:
2022
LATEST UPDATE: JUNE 25, 2025
GATEWAY, SAN MATEO CALIFORNIA
PROMETHEUS
ALLOWABLE BUILDING AREA CALCULATIONS
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 93 ---
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
UP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL
EXIT DISCHARGE
0
OCCUPANCY
MAXIMUM OCCUPANT 
LOAD OF SPACE
Without Sprinkler System (feet)
With Sprinkler System 
(feet)
Occupant Load
OL≤30
OL≥30
A, E, M
49
75
75
75
B
49
100
75
100
R-2
20
NP
NP
125
S
29
100
75
100
[CBC 2022] TABLE 1006.2.1
SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
[CBC] TABLE 1017.2
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
A, E, F-1, M, R, S-1
200
250
B
200
300
F-2, S-2, U
300
400
AREA NAME
150 SF
XXX OCC
XX
XX
LEGEND
EXIT
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR (TABLE 1004.1.2)
AREA
OCCUPANCY TYPE (SECTION 302.1)
1 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
2 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
3 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
EGRESS AREA
60 OCC
36"
44"
44"
29"
OCCUPANT LOAD
REQ'D DOOR WIDTH (.15*OCC);
PROVIDED DOOR WIDTH
REQ'D STAIR WIDTH (.2*OCC); 
PROVIDED STAIR WIDTH
19,842 SF
100 OCC
PARKING
200
S-2
ACCESSORY
359 SF
2 OCC
LOBBY
200
S-2
175 SF
1 OCC
UTILITY
200
S-2
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
11.6"
8.7"
STAIR
58 OCC
36"
48"
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
11.4"
8.6"
STAIR
57 OCC
36"
48"
1
61
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE
260' - 9 1/2"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 139' - 7 7/8"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 109' - 4 3/4"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 236' - 1 1/8"
ACCESSORY
125 SF
1 OCC
MUDDY PAW
200
S-2
637 SF
13 OCC
SHOP
50
S-2
376 SF
2 OCC
ELEC
300
S-2
2
15
1
2
1
ACCESSORY
418 SF
3 OCC
BIKE STORAGE
200
S-2
3
61
EXIT SEPARATION (79' 10" REQUIRED)
110' - 10"
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G030
EGRESS PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
OCCUPANCY SCHEDULE - P1
NAME
AREA
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
OCCUPANCY LOAD
FACTOR - TABLE 1004.5
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
LOBBY
359 SF
S-2
200
2
PARKING
19,842 SF
S-2
200
100
UTILITY
175 SF
S-2
200
1
MUDDY PAW
125 SF
S-2
200
1
SHOP
637 SF
S-2
50
13
ELEC
376 SF
S-2
300
2
BIKE STORAGE
418 SF
S-2
200
3
LEVEL TOTAL:
21,931 SF
122
1" = 10'-0"
G030
1
EGRESS PLAN - P1
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 94 ---
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
STOP
DN
UP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL
EXIT DISCHARGE
0
OCCUPANCY
MAXIMUM OCCUPANT 
LOAD OF SPACE
Without Sprinkler System (feet)
With Sprinkler System 
(feet)
Occupant Load
OL≤30
OL≥30
A, E, M
49
75
75
75
B
49
100
75
100
R-2
20
NP
NP
125
S
29
100
75
100
[CBC 2022] TABLE 1006.2.1
SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
[CBC] TABLE 1017.2
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
A, E, F-1, M, R, S-1
200
250
B
200
300
F-2, S-2, U
300
400
AREA NAME
150 SF
XXX OCC
XX
XX
LEGEND
EXIT
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR (TABLE 1004.1.2)
AREA
OCCUPANCY TYPE (SECTION 302.1)
1 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
2 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
3 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
EGRESS AREA
60 OCC
36"
44"
44"
29"
OCCUPANT LOAD
REQ'D DOOR WIDTH (.15*OCC);
PROVIDED DOOR WIDTH
REQ'D STAIR WIDTH (.2*OCC); 
PROVIDED STAIR WIDTH
11,340 SF
57 OCC
PARKING
200
S-2
1,772 SF
119 OCC
LOBBY
15
A-3
330 SF
2 OCC
ELEC
200
S-2
689 SF
3 OCC
TRANSFORMER
300
S-2
788 SF
4 OCC
BIKE STORAGE
200
R-2
180 SF
1 OCC
TRASH
200
R-2
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
14.6"
11"
STAIR
73 OCC
36"
48"
1
2
1
2
4
64
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE PARKING
193' - 5 1/2"
29
448 SF
3 OCC
TRASH
200
R-2
3
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 179' - 10 1/2"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 31' - 3 5/8"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 167' - 9 5/8"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 45' - 6 3/8"
63
29
3,653 SF
19 OCC
RESIDENTIAL
200
R-2
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (LOBBY)
90' - 4"
EXIT SEPARATION (31' - 3" REQUIRED)
31' - 4"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 62' - 5 3/8"
EXIT SEPARATION (65' - 0 3/4" REQUIRED)
117' - 6 1/2"
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
15"
11.3"
STAIR
75 OCC
36"
48"
42
213
143
199
41
EXIT ACCESS
EXIT PASSAGEWAY
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
45' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 6"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
59' - 1"
CENTERLINE OF E 3RD AVE
CENTERLINE OF S ELDORADO ST
CENTERLINE OF S DELAWARE ST
249
330 SF
2 OCC
ELEC
300
S-2
327 SF
2 OCC
GENERATOR
300
S-2
2
2
109 SF
1 OCC
DOMESTIC WATER
300
S-2
207 SF
1 OCC
MECHANICAL
300
S-2
2
PARCEL
ACCESSORY
261 SF
2 OCC
MAIL ROOM (THE POST)
150
R-2
305 SF
2 OCC
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL
ROOM
300
S-2
ACCESSORY
175 SF
1 OCC
AMAZON
300
R-2
2
1
2
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
3' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
1' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
2' - 5"
EXIT ACCESS
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
1' - 3"
EXTERIOR EXIT DOOR
(.15 x 214 OCC =  32.1") REQ DOOR SIZE.
36" PROVIDED.
EXTERIOR EXIT DOOR
(.15 x 64 OCC =  9.6") REQ DOOR SIZE.
36" PROVIDED.
EXTERIOR EXIT DOOR
(.15 x 249 OCC =  37.35") REQ DOOR SIZE.
42" PROVIDED.
4
ACCESSORY
89 SF
1 OCC
TRASH
200
R-2
1
RESTROOM
ACCESSORY
68 SF
1 OCC
PARCEL
300
R-2
1
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G031
EGRESS PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1" = 10'-0"
G031
1
EGRESS PLAN - GROUND STORY
N
OCCUPANCY SCHEDULE - GROUND STORY
NAME
AREA
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
OCCUPANCY LOAD
FACTOR - TABLE 1004.5
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
RESTROOM
69 SF
LOBBY
1,772 SF
A-3
15
119
BIKE STORAGE
788 SF
R-2
200
4
TRASH
180 SF
R-2
200
1
TRASH
448 SF
R-2
200
3
RESIDENTIAL
3,653 SF
R-2
200
19
PARCEL
68 SF
R-2
300
1
MAIL ROOM (THE
POST)
261 SF
R-2
150
2
AMAZON
175 SF
R-2
300
1
TRASH
89 SF
R-2
200
1
PARKING
11,340 SF
S-2
200
57
MECHANICAL
207 SF
S-2
300
1
DOMESTIC WATER
109 SF
S-2
300
1
19,159 SF
210
EGRESS TO EXTERIOR
ELEC
330 SF
S-2
200
2
TRANSFORMER
689 SF
S-2
300
3
ELEC
330 SF
S-2
300
2
GENERATOR
327 SF
S-2
300
2
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL
ROOM
305 SF
S-2
300
2
EGRESS TO EXTERIOR
1,980 SF
11
LEVEL TOTAL:
21,139 SF
221
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 95 ---
DN
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL
EXIT DISCHARGE
0
OCCUPANCY
MAXIMUM OCCUPANT 
LOAD OF SPACE
Without Sprinkler System (feet)
With Sprinkler System 
(feet)
Occupant Load
OL≤30
OL≥30
A, E, M
49
75
75
75
B
49
100
75
100
R-2
20
NP
NP
125
S
29
100
75
100
[CBC 2022] TABLE 1006.2.1
SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
[CBC] TABLE 1017.2
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
A, E, F-1, M, R, S-1
200
250
B
200
300
F-2, S-2, U
300
400
AREA NAME
150 SF
XXX OCC
XX
XX
LEGEND
EXIT
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR (TABLE 1004.1.2)
AREA
OCCUPANCY TYPE (SECTION 302.1)
1 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
2 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
3 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
EGRESS AREA
60 OCC
36"
44"
44"
29"
OCCUPANT LOAD
REQ'D DOOR WIDTH (.15*OCC);
PROVIDED DOOR WIDTH
REQ'D STAIR WIDTH (.2*OCC); 
PROVIDED STAIR WIDTH
855 SF
57 OCC
STUDY
15
R-2
ACCESSORY
1,488 SF
30 OCC
STRENGTH STUDIO
50
R-2
8,370 SF
42 OCC
PARKING
200
S-2
4,993 SF
25 OCC
RESIDENTIAL
200
R-2
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
15"
11.3"
STAIR
75 OCC
36"
48"
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
14.6"
11"
STAIR
73 OCC
36"
48"
118 SF
1 OCC
TRASH
200
R-2
30
29
3
1
59
59
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 88' - 2 5/8"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 127' - 1"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 208' - 7"
EXIT SEPARATION (74' 6" REQUIRED)
117' - 4"
BUILDING TRAVEL DISTANCE (R-2)
223' - 5"
21
21
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
44' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 6"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
37' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
59' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
38' - 1"
CENTERLINE OF E 3RD AVE
CENTERLINE OF S ELDORADO ST
CENTERLINE OF S DELAWARE ST
538 SF
3 OCC
BIKE STORAGE
200
R-2
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (S-2)
185' - 1 1/2"
28
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 180' - 1 5/8"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 55' - 10 1/2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
3' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
1' - 4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
1' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
2' - 5"
EXIT ACCESS
89 SF
1 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
1
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G032
EGRESS PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1" = 10'-0"
G032
1
EGRESS PLAN - 2ND STORY
OCCUPANCY SCHEDULE - 2ND STORY
NAME
AREA
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
OCCUPANCY LOAD
FACTOR - TABLE 1004.5
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
STUDY
855 SF
R-2
15
57
STRENGTH STUDIO
1,488 SF
R-2
50
30
RESIDENTIAL
4,993 SF
R-2
200
25
TRASH
118 SF
R-2
200
1
BIKE STORAGE
538 SF
R-2
200
3
UTILITY
89 SF
R-2
200
1
PARKING
8,370 SF
S-2
200
42
16,450 SF
159
LEVEL TOTAL:
16,450 SF
159
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 96 ---
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL
EXIT DISCHARGE
0
OCCUPANCY
MAXIMUM OCCUPANT 
LOAD OF SPACE
Without Sprinkler System (feet)
With Sprinkler System 
(feet)
Occupant Load
OL≤30
OL≥30
A, E, M
49
75
75
75
B
49
100
75
100
R-2
20
NP
NP
125
S
29
100
75
100
[CBC 2022] TABLE 1006.2.1
SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
[CBC] TABLE 1017.2
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
A, E, F-1, M, R, S-1
200
250
B
200
300
F-2, S-2, U
300
400
AREA NAME
150 SF
XXX OCC
XX
XX
LEGEND
EXIT
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR (TABLE 1004.1.2)
AREA
OCCUPANCY TYPE (SECTION 302.1)
1 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
2 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
3 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
EGRESS AREA
60 OCC
36"
44"
44"
29"
OCCUPANT LOAD
REQ'D DOOR WIDTH (.15*OCC);
PROVIDED DOOR WIDTH
REQ'D STAIR WIDTH (.2*OCC); 
PROVIDED STAIR WIDTH
ACCESSORY
990 SF
20 OCC
STRENGTH STUDIO
50
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
TRASH
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
291 SF
2 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE
257' - 3 1/4"
20,805 SF
105 OCC
RESIDENTIAL
200
R-2
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
12"
9"
STAIR
60 OCC
36"
48"
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
12"
9"
STAIR
60 OCC
36"
48"
1
2
1
10
60
60
EXIT SEPARATION (85' 9" REQUIRED)
119' - 0"
DEAD END CORRIDOR
49' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
38' - 4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
59' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
44' - 10"
CENTERLINE OF E 3RD AVE
CENTERLINE OF S ELDORADO ST
CENTERLINE OF S DELAWARE ST
10
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 124' - 5 1/4"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 133' - 5 7/8"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 55' - 2 7/8"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 126' - 1 5/8"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
 
 
10' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
10' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 1"
EXIT ACCESS
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
60' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
25' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
40' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
32' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 4"
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G033
EGRESS PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1" = 10'-0"
G033
1
EGRESS PLAN - 3RD STORY
OCCUPANCY SCHEDULE - 3RD STORY
NAME
AREA
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
OCCUPANCY LOAD
FACTOR
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
TRASH
69 SF
R-2
200
1
UTILITY
69 SF
R-2
200
1
STRENGTH STUDIO
645 SF
R-2
50
13
RESIDENTIAL
20,805 SF
R-2
200
105
UTILITY
291 SF
R-2
200
2
STRENGTH STUDIO
990 SF
R-2
50
20
LEVEL TOTAL:
22,869 SF
142
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 97 ---
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL
EXIT DISCHARGE
0
OCCUPANCY
MAXIMUM OCCUPANT 
LOAD OF SPACE
Without Sprinkler System (feet)
With Sprinkler System 
(feet)
Occupant Load
OL≤30
OL≥30
A, E, M
49
75
75
75
B
49
100
75
100
R-2
20
NP
NP
125
S
29
100
75
100
[CBC 2022] TABLE 1006.2.1
SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
[CBC] TABLE 1017.2
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
A, E, F-1, M, R, S-1
200
250
B
200
300
F-2, S-2, U
300
400
AREA NAME
150 SF
XXX OCC
XX
XX
LEGEND
EXIT
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR (TABLE 1004.1.2)
AREA
OCCUPANCY TYPE (SECTION 302.1)
1 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
2 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
3 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
EGRESS AREA
60 OCC
36"
44"
44"
29"
OCCUPANT LOAD
REQ'D DOOR WIDTH (.15*OCC);
PROVIDED DOOR WIDTH
REQ'D STAIR WIDTH (.2*OCC); 
PROVIDED STAIR WIDTH
ACCESSORY
251 SF
2 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
TRASH
200
R-2
11,598 SF
58 OCC
RESIDENTIAL - A
200
R-2
8,099 SF
41 OCC
RESIDENTIAL - B
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (AREA B)
132' - 5 1/2"
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (AREA A)
168' - 3 1/2"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 93' - 2 7/8"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 91' - 7 3/4"
1
1
1
31
21
30
21
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
4.2"
3.2"
STAIR
21 OCC
36"
48"
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
6.2"
4.7"
STAIR
31 OCC
36"
48"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 88' - 11 1/4"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 67' - 4 1/4"
EXIT SEPARATION (44' - 2" REQUIRED)
68' - 11 1/4"
EXIT SEPARATION ( 56' - 1" REQUIRED)
60' - 2 1/4"
CENTERLINE OF E 3RD AVE
CENTERLINE OF S ELDORADO ST
CENTERLINE OF S DELAWARE ST
DEAD END CORRIDOR
49' - 11"
EXIT ACCESS
EXIT ACCESS
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
38' - 4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
43' - 3"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
10' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
60' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
25' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
59' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
32' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
41' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
34' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
32' - 5"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
8"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
7' - 2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
57' - 5"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
57' - 10"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
 
 
10' - 0"
FC-2
FC-3
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G034
EGRESS PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1" = 10'-0"
G034
1
EGRESS PLAN - 4TH STORY
OCCUPANCY SCHEDULE - 4TH STORY
NAME
AREA
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
OCCUPANCY LOAD
FACTOR
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
AREA A
UTILITY
69 SF
R-2
200
1
UTILITY
251 SF
R-2
200
2
RESIDENTIAL - A
11,598 SF
R-2
200
58
AREA A
11,918 SF
61
AREA B
TRASH
69 SF
R-2
200
1
RESIDENTIAL - B
8,099 SF
R-2
200
41
AREA B
8,168 SF
42
LEVEL TOTAL:
20,086 SF
103
N
1" = 30'-0"
G034
2
FIRE COMPARTMENT DIAGRAM - 4TH STORY
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 98 ---
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL
EXIT DISCHARGE
0
OCCUPANCY
MAXIMUM OCCUPANT 
LOAD OF SPACE
Without Sprinkler System (feet)
With Sprinkler System 
(feet)
Occupant Load
OL≤30
OL≥30
A, E, M
49
75
75
75
B
49
100
75
100
R-2
20
NP
NP
125
S
29
100
75
100
[CBC 2022] TABLE 1006.2.1
SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
[CBC] TABLE 1017.2
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
A, E, F-1, M, R, S-1
200
250
B
200
300
F-2, S-2, U
300
400
AREA NAME
150 SF
XXX OCC
XX
XX
LEGEND
EXIT
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR (TABLE 1004.1.2)
AREA
OCCUPANCY TYPE (SECTION 302.1)
1 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
2 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
3 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
EGRESS AREA
60 OCC
36"
44"
44"
29"
OCCUPANT LOAD
REQ'D DOOR WIDTH (.15*OCC);
PROVIDED DOOR WIDTH
REQ'D STAIR WIDTH (.2*OCC); 
PROVIDED STAIR WIDTH
ACCESSORY
251 SF
2 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
TRASH
200
R-2
11,598 SF
58 OCC
RESIDENTIAL - A
200
R-2
8,099 SF
41 OCC
RESIDENTIAL - B
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (AREA B)
132' - 5 1/2"
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (AREA A)
168' - 3 1/2"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 93' - 2 7/8"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 91' - 7 3/4"
1
1
1
31
30
21
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
4.2"
3.2"
STAIR
21 OCC
36"
48"
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
6.2"
4.7"
STAIR
31 OCC
36"
48"
EXIT SEPARATION (44' - 2" REQUIRED)
68' - 7"
EXIT SEPARATION ( 56' - 1" REQUIRED)
60' - 2 1/4"
DEAD END CORRIDOR
49' - 11"
CENTERLINE OF E 3RD AVE
CENTERLINE OF S ELDORADO ST
CENTERLINE OF S DELAWARE ST
EXIT ACCESS
EXIT ACCESS
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
38' - 4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
10' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
60' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
25' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
43' - 3"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
59' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
32' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
41' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
57' - 10"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
57' - 4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
7' - 2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
 
 
10' - 0"
21
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 88' - 11 1/4"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 67' - 4 1/4"
FC-2
FC-3
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G035
EGRESS PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1" = 10'-0"
G035
1
EGRESS PLAN - 5TH STORY
OCCUPANCY SCHEDULE - 5TH STORY
NAME
AREA
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
OCCUPANCY LOAD
FACTOR
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
AREA A
UTILITY
69 SF
R-2
200
1
UTILITY
251 SF
R-2
200
2
RESIDENTIAL - A
11,598 SF
R-2
200
58
AREA A
11,918 SF
61
AREA B
TRASH
69 SF
R-2
200
1
RESIDENTIAL - B
8,099 SF
R-2
200
41
AREA B
8,168 SF
42
LEVEL TOTAL:
20,086 SF
103
N
1" = 30'-0"
G035
2
FIRE COMPARTMENT DIAGRAM - 5TH STORY
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 99 ---
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL
EXIT DISCHARGE
0
OCCUPANCY
MAXIMUM OCCUPANT 
LOAD OF SPACE
Without Sprinkler System (feet)
With Sprinkler System 
(feet)
Occupant Load
OL≤30
OL≥30
A, E, M
49
75
75
75
B
49
100
75
100
R-2
20
NP
NP
125
S
29
100
75
100
[CBC 2022] TABLE 1006.2.1
SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
[CBC] TABLE 1017.2
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
A, E, F-1, M, R, S-1
200
250
B
200
300
F-2, S-2, U
300
400
AREA NAME
150 SF
XXX OCC
XX
XX
LEGEND
EXIT
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR (TABLE 1004.1.2)
AREA
OCCUPANCY TYPE (SECTION 302.1)
1 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
2 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
3 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
EGRESS AREA
60 OCC
36"
44"
44"
29"
OCCUPANT LOAD
REQ'D DOOR WIDTH (.15*OCC);
PROVIDED DOOR WIDTH
REQ'D STAIR WIDTH (.2*OCC); 
PROVIDED STAIR WIDTH
ACCESSORY
251 SF
2 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
TRASH
200
R-2
11,602 SF
59 OCC
RESIDENTIAL - A
200
R-2
8,113 SF
41 OCC
RESIDENTIAL - B
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (AREA B)
132' - 5 1/2"
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (AREA A)
168' - 3 1/2"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 93' - 2 7/8"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 91' - 7 3/4"
1
1
1
31
30
21
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
4.2"
3.2"
STAIR
21 OCC
36"
48"
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
6.2"
4.7"
STAIR
31 OCC
36"
48"
EXIT SEPARATION (44' - 2" REQUIRED)
68' - 7"
EXIT SEPARATION ( 56' - 1" REQUIRED)
60' - 2 1/4"
DEAD END CORRIDOR
49' - 11"
CENTERLINE OF E 3RD AVE
CENTERLINE OF S ELDORADO ST
CENTERLINE OF S DELAWARE ST
EXIT ACCESS
EXIT ACCESS
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
38' - 4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
 
 
10' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
10' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
60' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
25' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
32' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
43' - 3"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
41' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
7' - 2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
57' - 10"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
59' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
57' - 6"
21
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 88' - 11 1/4"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 67' - 4 1/4"
FC-2
FC-3
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G036
EGRESS PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1" = 10'-0"
G036
1
EGRESS PLAN - 6TH STORY
OCCUPANCY SCHEDULE - 6TH STORY
NAME
AREA
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
OCCUPANCY LOAD
FACTOR - TABLE 1004.5
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
AREA A
UTILITY
69 SF
R-2
200
1
UTILITY
251 SF
R-2
200
2
RESIDENTIAL - A
11,602 SF
R-2
200
59
AREA A
11,922 SF
62
AREA B
TRASH
69 SF
R-2
200
1
RESIDENTIAL - B
8,113 SF
R-2
200
41
AREA B
8,181 SF
42
LEVEL TOTAL:
20,103 SF
104
N
1" = 30'-0"
G036
2
FIRE COMPARTMENT DIAGRAM - 6TH STORY
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 100 ---
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL
EXIT DISCHARGE
0
OCCUPANCY
MAXIMUM OCCUPANT 
LOAD OF SPACE
Without Sprinkler System (feet)
With Sprinkler System 
(feet)
Occupant Load
OL≤30
OL≥30
A, E, M
49
75
75
75
B
49
100
75
100
R-2
20
NP
NP
125
S
29
100
75
100
[CBC 2022] TABLE 1006.2.1
SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
[CBC] TABLE 1017.2
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
A, E, F-1, M, R, S-1
200
250
B
200
300
F-2, S-2, U
300
400
AREA NAME
150 SF
XXX OCC
XX
XX
LEGEND
EXIT
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR (TABLE 1004.1.2)
AREA
OCCUPANCY TYPE (SECTION 302.1)
1 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
2 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
3 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
EGRESS AREA
60 OCC
36"
44"
44"
29"
OCCUPANT LOAD
REQ'D DOOR WIDTH (.15*OCC);
PROVIDED DOOR WIDTH
REQ'D STAIR WIDTH (.2*OCC); 
PROVIDED STAIR WIDTH
ACCESSORY
251 SF
2 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
TRASH
200
R-2
11,598 SF
58 OCC
RESIDENTIAL - A
200
R-2
8,113 SF
41 OCC
RESIDENTIAL - B
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (AREA B)
132' - 5 1/2"
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (AREA A)
168' - 3 1/2"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 93' - 2 7/8"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 91' - 7 3/4"
1
1
1
31
30
21
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
4.2"
3.2"
STAIR
21 OCC
36"
48"
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
6.2"
4.7"
STAIR
31 OCC
36"
48"
EXIT SEPARATION (44' - 2" REQUIRED)
68' - 7"
EXIT SEPARATION ( 56' - 1" REQUIRED)
60' - 2 1/4"
DEAD END CORRIDOR
49' - 11"
CENTERLINE OF E 3RD AVE
CENTERLINE OF S ELDORADO ST
CENTERLINE OF S DELAWARE ST
EXIT ACCESS
EXIT ACCESS
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
38' - 4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
 
 
10' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
10' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
60' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
25' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
41' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
32' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
57' - 10"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
7' - 2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
43' - 3"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
59' - 1"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
57' - 4"
21
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 88' - 11 1/4"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 67' - 4 1/4"
FC-2
FC-3
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G037
EGRESS PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1" = 10'-0"
G037
1
EGRESS PLAN - 7TH STORY
OCCUPANCY SCHEDULE - 7TH STORY
NAME
AREA
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
OCCUPANCY LOAD
FACTOR - TABLE 1004.5
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
AREA A
UTILITY
69 SF
R-2
200
1
UTILITY
251 SF
R-2
200
2
RESIDENTIAL - A
11,598 SF
R-2
200
58
AREA A
11,918 SF
61
AREA B
TRASH
69 SF
R-2
200
1
RESIDENTIAL - B
8,113 SF
R-2
200
41
AREA B
8,181 SF
42
LEVEL TOTAL:
20,100 SF
103
N
1" = 30'-0"
G037
2
FIRE COMPARTMENT DIAGRAM - 7TH STORY
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 101 ---
UP
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL
EXIT DISCHARGE
0
OCCUPANCY
MAXIMUM OCCUPANT 
LOAD OF SPACE
Without Sprinkler System (feet)
With Sprinkler System 
(feet)
Occupant Load
OL≤30
OL≥30
A, E, M
49
75
75
75
B
49
100
75
100
R-2
20
NP
NP
125
S
29
100
75
100
[CBC 2022] TABLE 1006.2.1
SPACES WITH ONE EXIT OR EXIT ACCESS DOORWAY
[CBC] TABLE 1017.2
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE
OCCUPANCY
WITHOUT SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
WITH SPRINKLER SYSTEM 
(feet)
A, E, F-1, M, R, S-1
200
250
B
200
300
F-2, S-2, U
300
400
AREA NAME
150 SF
XXX OCC
XX
XX
LEGEND
EXIT
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
OCCUPANCY LOAD FACTOR (TABLE 1004.1.2)
AREA
OCCUPANCY TYPE (SECTION 302.1)
1 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
2 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
3 HR RATED ASSEMBLY
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
EGRESS AREA
60 OCC
36"
44"
44"
29"
OCCUPANT LOAD
REQ'D DOOR WIDTH (.15*OCC);
PROVIDED DOOR WIDTH
REQ'D STAIR WIDTH (.2*OCC); 
PROVIDED STAIR WIDTH
8,043 SF
41 OCC
RESIDENTIAL B
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
69 SF
1 OCC
TRASH
200
R-2
ACCESSORY
251 SF
2 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
743 SF
50 OCC
AMENITY
15
R-2
439 SF
30 OCC
AMENITY DECK
15
R-2
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (AREA A)
167' - 9 1/2"
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE (AREA B)
130' - 3 1/2"
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 115' - 6 3/4"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 112' - 6 1/4"
1
1
1
90
90
21
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
4.2"
3.2"
STAIR
21 OCC
36"
48"
PROV
REQ'D
STAIR
DOOR
17.2"
12.9"
STAIR
86 OCC
36"
48"
25
75
30
743 SF
50 OCC
AMENITY DECK
15
R-2
BUILDING DIAGONAL DISTANCE
50' - 11 3/4"
EXIT SEPARATION (44' - 2" REQUIRED)
68' - 7"
EXIT SEPARATION (56' - 1" REQUIRED)
60' - 2 1/4"
DEAD END CORRIDOR
49' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
42' - 2 3/4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
38' - 3 3/4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
60' - 6 1/2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
43' - 2 3/4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
66' - 2 3/4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
76' - 8 1/4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
32' - 0 1/4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
55' - 6 1/4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
38' - 11 1/2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
55' - 6"
CENTERLINE OF E 3RD AVE
CENTERLINE OF S ELDORADO ST
CENTERLINE OF S DELAWARE ST
ACCESSORY
30 SF
1 OCC
UTILITY
200
R-2
25
9,288 SF
47 OCC
RESIDENTIAL A
200
R-2
EXIT ACCESS
EXIT ACCESS
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
1' - 5"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 2 1/2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 1 1/2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
 
 
10' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
6' - 3 1/4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
9' - 11 3/4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
5' - 0 3/4"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
1' - 10 1/2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
25' - 7"
21
EXIT ACCESS TRAVEL DISTANCE: 88' - 11 1/4"
COMMON PATH OF TRAVEL: 67' - 4 1/4"
FC-2
FC-3
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G038
EGRESS PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1" = 10'-0"
G038
1
EGRESS PLAN - 8TH STORY
OCCUPANCY SCHEDULE - 8TH STORY
NAME
AREA
OCCUPANCY
TYPE
OCCUPANCY LOAD
FACTOR - TALBE 1004.5
NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS
UTILITY
30 SF
R-2
200
1
AMENITY
743 SF
R-2
15
50
774 SF
51
AREA A
UTILITY
251 SF
R-2
200
2
RESIDENTIAL A
9,288 SF
R-2
200
47
AMENITY DECK
439 SF
R-2
15
30
AMENITY DECK
743 SF
R-2
15
50
AREA A
10,721 SF
129
AREA B
TRASH
69 SF
R-2
200
1
RESIDENTIAL B
8,043 SF
R-2
200
41
AREA B
8,112 SF
42
LEVEL TOTAL:
19,606 SF
222
N
1" = 30'-0"
G038
2
FIRE COMPARTMENT DIAGRAM - 8TH STORY
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 102 ---
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: GREATER THAN 30' [ENTIRE ELEVATION]
MAX ALLOWABLE OPENING AREA: UNLIMITED
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: 5' - 2"
TOTAL WALL AREA: 5039.5 SF
MAX ALLOWABLE OPENING AREA: 25% [1259.9 SF]
ACTUAL OPENING AREA: 24.9% [1257.6 SF]
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: 10'
TOTAL WALL AREA: 5029.3 SF
MAX ALLOWABLE OPENING AREA: 45% [2,263.5 SF]
ACTUAL OPENING AREA: 35.7% [1797.7 SF]
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: 5' - 1"
TOTAL WALL AREA: 2980.1 SF
MAX ALLOWABLE OPENING AREA: 25% [745 SF]
ACTUAL OPENING AREA: 24.9% [742.8 SF]
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: 12' - 1"
TOTAL WALL AREA: 192 SF
MAX ALLOWABLE OPENING AREA: 45% [86.4 SF]
ACTUAL OPENING AREA: 23.4% [20.2 SF]
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: 0'-3'
OPENINGS NOT PERMITTED
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: GREATER THAN 30' [ENTIRE ELEVATION]
MAX ALLOWABLE OPENING AREA: UNLIMITED
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: GREATER THAN 30'
MAX ALLOWABLE OPENING AREA: UNLIMITED
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: 10'
TOTAL WALL AREA: 3189.8 SF
MAX ALLOWABLE OPENING AREA: 45% [1435.4 SF]
ACTUAL OPENING AREA: 31.6% [1009 SF]
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: GREATER THAN 20'
MAX ALLOWABLE OPENING AREA: UNLIMITED
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: 0'-3'
OPENINGS NOT PERMITTED
DELAWARE ST
SIGHT LINE
ROOF MECHANICAL 
EQUIPMENT
3RD AVE
SIGHT LINE
ROOF MECHANICAL 
EQUIPMENT
ELDORADO ST
SIGHT LINE
ROOF MECHANICAL 
EQUIPMENT
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G040
ALLOWABLE
OPENING / MECH
SCREEN DIAGRAMS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1/16" = 1'-0"
G040
3
ALLOWABLE OPENING DIAGRAM - NORTHWEST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
G040
1
ALLOWABLE OPENING DIAGRAM - SOUTHEAST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
G040
4
ALLOWABLE OPENING DIAGRAM - SOUTHWEST ELEVATION
1/16" = 1'-0"
G040
2
ALLOWABLE OPENING DIAGRAM - NORTHEAST ELEVATION
EXTERIOR WALL OPENING ANALYSIS - NORTHWEST ELEVATION [3RD AVE]
(ALL OPENINGS ARE UNPROTECTED, SPRINKLERED. SEE EGRESS PLAN SHEETS FOR FIRE SEPARATION DIMENSIONS.)
EXTERIOR WALL OPENING ANALYSIS - SOUTHEAST ELEVATION [4TH AVE]
(ALL OPENINGS ARE UNPROTECTED, SPRINKLERED. SEE EGRESS PLAN SHEETS FOR FIRE SEPARATION DIMENSIONS.)
EXTERIOR WALL OPENING ANALYSIS - SOUTHWEST ELEVATION [DELAWARE ST]
(ALL OPENINGS ARE UNPROTECTED, SPRINKLERED. SEE EGRESS PLAN SHEETS FOR FIRE SEPARATION DIMENSIONS.)
EXTERIOR WALL OPENING ANALYSIS - NORTHEAST ELEVATION [EL DORADO ST]
(ALL OPENINGS ARE UNPROTECTED, SPRINKLERED. SEE EGRESS PLAN SHEETS FOR FIRE SEPARATION DIMENSIONS.)
1/16" = 1'-0"
G040
7
MECHANICAL SCREENING DIAGRAM - DELAWARE ST
1/16" = 1'-0"
G040
6
MECHANICAL SCREENING DIAGRAM - 3RD AVE
1/16" = 1'-0"
G040
5
MECHANICAL SCREENING DIAGRAM - ELDORADO ST
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 103 ---
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
STOP
PROPERTYLINE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
TOTAL # UNITS = 128
TOTAL # AFFORDABLE UNITS = 20
TOTAL # MARKET RATE UNITS = 108
AFFORDABLE UNIT COUNT
STUDIO / URBAN
8
COUNT
TOTAL
1 BEDROOM
NAME
2 BEDROOM
6
5
20
INTERIOR FINISHES AND AMENITIES OF AFFORDABLE UNITS WILL EQUAL TO 
THAT OF THE MARKET RATE UNITS.
AFFORDABLE UNITS WILL HAVE THE SAME ACCESS AND ENJOYMENT OF 
COMMON SPACE, PARKING, STORAGE, AND OTHER FACILITIES IN THE 
RESIDENTIAL PROJECT.
THE PROJECT IS LOCATED WITHIN THE MIXED USE MEDIUM II LAND USE 
DISTRICT OF THE SAN MATEO GENERAL PLAN, WHICH ALLOWS A MAXIMUM OF 
99 DU/AC, AND WHICH EQUATES TO A MAXIMUM RESIDENTIAL DENSITY OF 64 
UNITS ON THE PROJECT SITE. THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTS THE DBL TO 
INCLUDE 15% VERY LOW INCOME UNITS (10 UNITS) TO RECEIVE A 50% 
DENSITY BONUS (32 UNITS), AND FURTHER PROVIDES 15% MODERATE UNITS 
(10 UNITS) TO RECEIVE AN ADDITIONAL 50% DENSITY BONUS (32 UNITS), 
WHICH EQUATES TO A TOTAL UNIT COUNT OF 128 UNITS. (GOV. CODE § 
65915(F)(2))
TYPE
1 BEDROOM / 1 BATH
1 BEDROOM / 1 BATH
2 BEDROOM / 2 BATH
TOWNHOUSE
3 BEDROOM / 3 BATH
1
COLOR
SF
5,385.1
4,324.7
5,779.5
17,156.9
1,667.6
AFFORDABILITY LEVELS:
VERY LOW (VLOW) UNITS: 10
MODERATE (MOD) UNITS: 10
VLOW #
MOD #
4
3
4
3
2
1
3
-
10
10
TOWNHOUSE A
1,667.6 SF
VLOW
STUDIO A
489.8 SF
MOD
URBAN A
784.8 SF
MOD
2-BED D
1072.4 SF
VLOW
2-BED B
1227.7 SF
VLOW
1-BED E
632.7 SF
MOD
URBAN A
689.1 SF
VLOW
2-BED E
1222.5 SF
MOD
1-BED F
718.1 SF
VLOW
URBAN C
695.6 SF
VLOW
1-BED A
837.6 SF
VLOW
1-BED C
714.7 SF
MOD
URBAN B
669 SF
VLOW
2-BED A
1181.4 SF
MOD
2-BED D
1075.6 SF
MOD
1-BED B
789 SF
VLOW
URBAN A
689.1 SF
MOD
1-BED E
632.7 SF
MOD
URBAN A
692.7 SF
VLOW
URBAN B
675 SF
MOD
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G041
AFFORDABLE UNIT
LOCATIONS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
3/64" = 1'-0"
G041
1
AFFORDABLE UNIT LOCATIONS - GROUND STORY
3/64" = 1'-0"
G041
2
AFFORDABLE UNIT LOCATIONS - 2ND STORY
3/64" = 1'-0"
G041
3
AFFORDABLE UNIT LOCATIONS - 3RD STORY
3/64" = 1'-0"
G041
4
AFFORDABLE UNIT LOCATIONS - 4TH STORY
3/64" = 1'-0"
G041
5
AFFORDABLE UNIT LOCATIONS - 5TH STORY
3/64" = 1'-0"
G041
6
AFFORDABLE UNIT LOCATIONS - 6TH STORY
3/64" = 1'-0"
G041
7
AFFORDABLE UNIT LOCATIONS - 7TH STORY
3/64" = 1'-0"
G041
8
AFFORDABLE UNIT LOCATIONS - 8TH STORY
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 104 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G100
RENDERINGS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
NTS
G100
1
3D - 3RD AVENUE  AND S DELAWARE STREET
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 105 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G101
RENDERINGS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
NTS
G101
1
3D - 3RD AVENUE
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 106 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G102
RENDERINGS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
NTS
G102
1
3D - 3RD AVENUE & S DELAWARE ST - LOBBY
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 107 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G103
RENDERINGS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
NTS
G103
1
3D - S DELAWARE STREET
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 108 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G104
RENDERINGS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
NTS
G104
1
3D - 3RD AVENUE - TOWNHOMES
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 109 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G105
RENDERINGS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
NTS
G105
1
3D - 3RD AVENUE - TOWNHOMES VIGNETTE
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 110 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
G106
RENDERINGS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
NTS
G106
1
3D - 3RD & ELDORADO - TOWNHOMES CORNER
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 111 ---
SS
SS
C
C
C
C
C
SS
SS
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
2024-1869
1730 N. FIRST STREET
SUITE 600
SAN JOSE, CA 95112
(408) 467-9100
www.bkf.com
12-31-27
C1.0
EXISTING
CONDITIONS
MARCH 25, 2025
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 112 ---
ELEVATORS
LOBBY & LEASING
TRANSFORMER
STAIR-02
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
BIKES
STAIR-01
CORRIDOR
TRASH
TRASH
CORRIDOR
ND OFFICE
WORK ROOM
PARCEL
AMAZON
DOMESTIC
WATER
THE POST
ELEC
ELEC
GENERATOR
MECH
CORRIDOR
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL ROOM
TRASH
CORRIDOR
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
2024-1869
1730 N. FIRST STREET
SUITE 600
SAN JOSE, CA 95112
(408) 467-9100
www.bkf.com
12-31-27
C2.0
PRELIMINARY
SITE PLAN
MARCH 25, 2025
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 113 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
2024-1869
1730 N. FIRST STREET
SUITE 600
SAN JOSE, CA 95112
(408) 467-9100
www.bkf.com
12-31-27
C2.1
STREET
SECTIONS
MARCH 25, 2025
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 114 ---
ELEVATORS
LOBBY & LEASING
TRANSFORMER
STAIR-02
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
BIKES
STAIR-01
CORRIDOR
TRASH
TRASH
CORRIDOR
ND OFFICE
WORK ROOM
PARCEL
AMAZON
DOMESTIC
WATER
THE POST
ELEC
ELEC
GENERATOR
MECH
CORRIDOR
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL ROOM
TRASH
CORRIDOR
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
2024-1869
1730 N. FIRST STREET
SUITE 600
SAN JOSE, CA 95112
(408) 467-9100
www.bkf.com
12-31-27
C3.0
PRELIMINARY
GRADING PLAN
RESPONSIBILITY TO INDEPENDENTLY ESTIMATE
APPROXIMATE.  IT SHALL BE THE CONTRACTOR'S
NOTE:  EARTHWORK QUANTITIES SHOWN ARE
EARTH WORK QUANTITIES
FILL (ON & OFF SITE):
CUT (ON & OFF SITE):
QUANTITIES FOR HIS/HER OWN USE. 
100 CY
10,857 CY
NET (ON & OFF SITE):10,757 CY (EXPORT)
MARCH 25, 2025
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 115 ---
C
C
C
C
C
SS
SS
SS
SS
ELEVATORS
LOBBY & LEASING
TRANSFORMER
STAIR-02
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
BIKES
STAIR-01
CORRIDOR
TRASH
TRASH
CORRIDOR
ND OFFICE
WORK ROOM
PARCEL
AMAZON
DOMESTIC
WATER
THE POST
ELEC
ELEC
GENERATOR
MECH
CORRIDOR
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL ROOM
TRASH
CORRIDOR
C
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
2024-1869
1730 N. FIRST STREET
SUITE 600
SAN JOSE, CA 95112
(408) 467-9100
www.bkf.com
12-31-27
C4.0
PRELIMINARY
UTILITY PLAN
MARCH 25, 2025
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 116 ---
ELEVATORS
LOBBY & LEASING
TRANSFORMER
STAIR-02
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
BIKES
STAIR-01
CORRIDOR
TRASH
TRASH
CORRIDOR
ND OFFICE
WORK ROOM
PARCEL
AMAZON
DOMESTIC
WATER
THE POST
ELEC
ELEC
GENERATOR
MECH
CORRIDOR
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL ROOM
TRASH
CORRIDOR
FT-1
A-1
A-2
MF-2
A-3
A-4
A-5a
A-5b
SC-5
A-#
SC-#
FT-#
MF-#
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVENUE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
2024-1869
1730 N. FIRST STREET
SUITE 600
SAN JOSE, CA 95112
(408) 467-9100
www.bkf.com
12-31-27
C5.0
PRELIMINARY
STORMWATER
CONTROL PLAN
MARCH 25, 2025
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 117 ---
L0.01
ARBORIST REPORT &
TREE FORM
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 118 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L0.02
ARBORIST REPORT &
TREE FORM
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 119 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L0.03
ARBORIST REPORT &
TREE FORM
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 120 ---
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
DELAWARE STREET
3RD AVENUE
ELDORADO STREET
Q2
P2
P1
H1
H1
P2
1
1
3
3
2
T1
T1
T1
T2
T2
A1
T2
T2
G1
G1
P2
P3
G2
G1
P1
P1
P1
G1
P2
A1
A1
B1
P1
A1
P2
B3
B3
P2
A1
G1
G1
T2
A2
A2
A2
A1
G1
A1
T1
T1
Q1
B2
B1
P2
P2
B3
B3
B3
B3
P2
H1
H1
H1
H1
G3
J1
J1
J1
J1
Q2
Q2
Q2
Q2
4
P2
P2
5
P1
P3
P2
P2
PAVEMENTS
CONCRETE PAVING - PEDESTRIAN, SEE CIVIL.
CONCRETE PAVING - VEHICULAR, SEE CIVIL.
SPECIALTY PAVING_ TYPE 1 3RD + DELAWARE ROW + PLAZA
- CITY STD BRICK, TANGIERS, HERRINGBONE PATTERN
SPECIALTY PAVING_TYPE 2  3RD + DELAWARE PLAZA
- CITY STD BRICK, TANGIERS, STACKED PATTERN
SPECIALTY PAVING_3 AT 3RD FRONTAGE
- CONCRETE UNIT PAVER, ROMAN, 8 X 24.
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
A1
A2
B1
B2
WALLS, CURBS & FENCES
RAISED METAL PLANTER
- WEATHERING STEEL, 24" HT
- GAP W/ GRAVEL AT EDGE OF PAVING FOR DRAINAGE
RAISED CONCRETE PLANTER
- INTEGRAL COLOR, 48" HT
FREESTANDING PLANTER
- FIBERGLASS, COLOR TO MATCH ARCH.
- 36" SQ.
METAL MESH VINE ARMATURE
-2"X2" GRID, PAINTED STEEL (BURNT SIENNA/OCHRE COLOR)
STAIRS AND  HANDRAILS
- CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS
- PAINTED STEEL HANDRAIL - TO MATCH ARCH.
SITE BENCH, WOOD ON CONCRETE BASE
- 18' LENGTH, BACKED W/ARMREST
BIKE RACK (CITY STD.)
- WELLE CIRCULAR TUBE, INGROUND
- STAINLESS STEEL
- 5 RACKS (10 SPACES TOTAL) PROVIDED. (2) DELAWARE, (2) 3RD AND (1) ELDORADO
STREET LIGHT (CITY STD) - REFER TO CIVIL
SITE FURNISHINGS
G1
G2
H1
Q1
Q2
CURB RAMP, CITY STD. (SEE CIVIL)
NEW PARKING STALL / STRIPING (SEE CIVIL)
PROPERTY LINE
PUBLIC PLAZA
PUBLIC SEATING PROVIDED - 18' LINEAR FEET PER 455' BUILDING FRONTAGE, ARMRESTS PROVIDED, 100%; BACKREST PROVIDED, OVER 50%
1
KEY NOTES
2
3
PLANTING
AT GRADE PLANTING AREA
RAISED PLANTING AREA
STORMWATER PLANTING AREA
STREET TREE TYPE.1
STREET TREE TYPE.2
P1
P2
P3
Q3
T1
T2
G3
B3
J1
4
5
20
5
0
SCALE:  1" = 10'
10
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L1.01
LANDSCAPE PLAN
LEVEL_1
TRUE NORTH
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 121 ---
DN
UP
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
684 SF
STRENGTH STUDIO
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
STAIR-02
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
533 SF
AMENITY DECK
E.1
TRASH
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
G4
H2
G4
H2
H2
G4
H2
A1
A1
C1
C1
A1
C1
G4
G4
H2
G4
H2
G4
G4
H2
H2
H2
H2
H2
G4
G4
H2
G4
P2
P2
P2
P2
P2
P2
H2
A1
PAVEMENTS
PEDESTAL UNIT PAVERS
- 2 X 2, PORCELAIN
- ADJUSTABLE PEDESTAL
STONE BALLAST
MATERIALS SCHEDULE - LEVEL 3
FREESTANDING PLANTER, FIBERGLASS
- 24" W X 24" HT, LENGTH VARIES
PRIVACY SCREEN, 2" X 2" WIRE MESH, 72" HEIGHT
A1
G4
H2
WALLS, CURBS & FENCES
RAISED PLANTING AREA
P2
PLANTING
C1
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L1.02
LANDSCAPE PLAN
LEVEL_3
20
5
0
SCALE:  1" = 10'
10
TRUE NORTH
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 122 ---
UP
871 SF
THE DEN
658 SF
AMENITY DECK
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
3-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
TRASH
RESTROOM
BBQ
614 SF
AMENITY DECK
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
STAIR-02
G1
Q3
Q2
Q1
Q4
Q5
G1
X
PAVEMENTS
PEDESTAL UNIT PAVERS
- 2 X 2, PORCELAIN
- ADJUSTABLE PEDESTAL
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
A1
WALLS, CURBS & FENCES
FIBERGLASS PLANTER, 24" AND 36" DIA. 36" HT.
BASIS OF DESIGN: TOURNESOL
BAR + STOOLS
- CUSTOM BUILT-IN
FAMILY TABLE & CHAIR
BASIS OF DESIGN: LANDSCAPE FORMS
ARM CHAIR
SOFA + TABLE
STANDING/LEAN BAR
- CUSTOM/BUILT-IN
SITE FURNISHINGS
G1
Q1
Q2
RAISED PLANTING AREA
P2
Q3
PLANTING
Q4
Q5
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L1.03
MATERIAL PLAN
LEVEL_8
20
5
0
SCALE:  1" = 10'
10
TRUE NORTH
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 123 ---
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
DELAWARE STREET
3RD AVENUE
ELDORADO STREET
SALE (2)
LIPE (4)
HECA (3)
HEPA (1)
SALE (1)
LIPE (5)
HECA (4)
HEPA (3)
HECA (2)
LIPE (6)
HEPA (1)
OPJA (5)
SALE (3)
ANGO (3)
HECA (6)
LIPE (10)
PITO (2)
SALE (2)
ANGO (2)
SALE (1)
ROHU (2)
CIPU (3)
HEPA (4)
OPJA (4)
HEPA (4)
OPJA (4)
HEPA (4)
OPJA (4)
HEPA (4)
OPJA (4)
HEPA (4)
OPJA (4)
HEPA (4)
OPJA (4)
HEPA (4)
OPJA (4)
PHTE (8)
CIPU (2)
ROHU (4)
DIBI (1)
ANGO (2)
PHTE (3)
PUGR (4)
LIPE (9)
PITO (2)
DIBI (1)
MUCO (2)
BOCO (1)
OPJA (5)
LAVE (7)
HECA (2)
V
V
V
V
ROHU (2)
LAVE (2)
BOCO (1)
ANGO (1)
LAVE (3)
BOCO (1)
HAHE (5)
BOCO (1)
MUCO (2)
V
LAVE (2)
BOCO (1)
ANGO (3)
LIPE (3)
V
V
V
V
V
CUSE (9)
PHLO (3)
PHLO (4)
BOCO (1)
BOCO (1)
BOCO (1)
BOCO (2)
PHTE (3)
PITO (3)
PHTE (11)
PHTE (9)
HEPA (6)
CYRE (2)
ECFA (3)
PHTE (3)
PHLO (12)
PHLO (4)
PHLO (6)
ECFA (3)
ECFA (3)
PHTE (3)
PHTE (3)
ROHU (3)
ROHU (2)
DIBI (1)
MUCO (3)
ECFA (1)
LIPE (2)
HEPA (2)
PHLO (1)
HECA (4)
PICH (8)
HAHE (3)
ROHU (3)
PHTE(2)
MUCO (1)
HEPA (2)
MUCO (4)
OPJA (5)
OPJA (3)
GARDEN PLANTING: GROUND COVERS, PERENNIALS, GRASSES & VINES
SYMBLE
KEY
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
MINIMUM SIZE
(SPRD.X HEIGHT.)
CONTAINER
CLASS
WUCLOS
NOTES
ANGO
ANIGOZANTHOS VAR.
DWARF KANGAROO PAW
1.5' X 1.5'
CG  # 1,2
VERY LOW
ARPA
ARCTOSTAPHYLOS
'PACIFIC MIST'
PACIFIC MIST MANZANITA
4' x 3'
CG  # 3
LOW
BOCO
BOUGAINVILLEA COMM.
BOUGAINVILLEA
3' x 3'
CG  # 5
LOW
TROS
TRACHELOSPERMUM
JASMINOIDES
STAR JASMINE
3' x 3'
CG  # 5
LOW
CIPU
CISTUS PURPUREUS
PURPLE ROCK ROSE
4' x 4'
CG  # 1,2
LOW
CYRE
CYCAS REVOLUTA
SAGO PALM
3' x 3'
CG  # 2,3
LOW
DIBI
DIETES BICOLOR
FORTNIGHT LILY (YELLOW)
3' x 3'
CG  # 1,2
LOW
ECFA
ECHIUM FASTUOSUM
DWARF ESCALLONIA
5' x 8'
CG  # 5
LOW
HECA
HEUCHERA 'CANYON
DUET'
CORAL BELLS
1' X 1'
CG  # 1,2
LOW
HEPA
HEUCHERA 'PALACE
PURPLE'
PALACE PURPLE CORAL
BELLS
1.5' X 1.5'
CG  # 1,2
LOW
LAVE
LAVENDULA X
INTERMEDIA
'PROVENCE'
FRENCH LAVENDER
2.5' X 2.5'
CG  # 2
LOW
LIPE
LIMONIUM PEREZII
SEA LAVENDER
2' X 1.5'
CG  # 2
LOW
MUCO
MUHLENBERGIA
CAPILLARIS
PINK MUHLY GRASS
3' X 6'
CG  # 2
LOW
OPJA
OPHIOPOGON
PLANISCAPUS
'NIGRESCENS'
BLACK MONDO GRASS
1' X 0.75'
CG  # 1
MODERATE
PITO
PITTOSPORUM TOBIRA
'WHEELER'S DWARF'
WHEELER'S DWARF
PITTOSPORUM
5' x 5'
CG  # 5
LOW
PHTE
PHORMIUM TENAX
VAR.
NEW ZEALAND FLAX
5' X 5'
CG  # 5
LOW
PHTE
PHORMIUM TENAX
"PEE".
DWARF NEW ZEALAND
2' X 2'
CG  # 3
LOW
PHLO
PHILODENDRON
'XANADU'
WINTERBOURN
4' x 4'
CG  # 3
MODERATE
PUGR
PUNICA GRANATUM
'NANA'
DWARF POMEGRANATE
3' x 3'
CG  # 3
LOW
ROHU
ROSMARINUS OFFIC.
'HUNTINGTON'
PROSTRATE ROSEMARY
4' X 1'
CG  # 3
LOW
SALE
SALVIA LEUCANTHA
'SANTA BARBARA'
MEXICAN SAGE
3' X 3'
CG  # 3
LOW
TUVI
TULBAGHIA VIOLACEA
'SILVER LACE'
VARIEGATED SOCIETY
GARLIC
1' X 1'
CG  # 1
LOW
V
STREET TREE SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
KEY
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
MINIMUM SIZE
(HT.X SPRD.)
SPACING
QUANTITY
MATURE SIZE
(HT.X SPRD.)
WUCLOS
PICH
PISTACIA CHINENSIS
CHINESE PISTACHE
2.5" CAL.;
10'-12' HT; 36"
BOX
AS SHOWN
8
30' HT. x 30' SPRD.
LOW
HAHE
HANDROANTHUS
HEPTAPHYLLUS
TRUMPET TREE
2.5" CAL.;
10'-12' HT; 36"
BOX
AS SHOWN
8
40' HT. x 30' SPRD.
LOW
LANDSCAPE TREE SCHEDULE
SYMBOL
KEY
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
MINIMUM SIZE
(HT.X SPRD.)
SPACING
QUANTITY
MATURE SIZE
(HT.X SPRD.)
NOTES
WUCLOS
CUSE
CUPRESSUS
SEMPERVIRENS
'MONSHEL'
TINY TOWER
ITALIAN CYPRESS
1.25" CAL MIN;
8' HT; 24" BOX
MIN
AS SHOWN
9
10' HT. x 2' SPRD.
VERY LOW
V
STORM FACILITY PLANTING SCHEDULE (INCLUDE ROW STORMWATER AREAS)
SYMBOL
%
mve
MINIMUM SIZE
SPACING
CALIFORNIA NATIVE (CA)
NATIVE ADAPTED (N)
25
CAREX
OBNUPTA
#1 CONT.
1.5' O.C.
A
25
CHONDRAPETA
LUM
TECHTORUM
#1 CONT.
1.5' O.C.
A
25
JUNCUS
PATENS 'ELK
BLUE'
#1 CONT.
1.5' O.C.
CA
25
DESCHAMPSIA
CESPITOSA
#1 CONT.
1.5' O.C.
CA
AREA CALCULATION
TOTAL LANDSCAPE AREA
2398 SF
STREETSCAPE PLANTING -
3RD, DELAWARE, ELDORADO
1466 SF
RASIED PLANTERS
897 SF
STORMWATER PLANTING
35 SF
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L2.01
PLANTING PLAN _ SITE
20
5
0
SCALE:  1" = 10'
10
TRUE NORTH
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 124 ---
DN
UP
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
684 SF
STRENGTH STUDIO
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
STAIR-02
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
533 SF
AMENITY DECK
E.1
TRASH
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(4)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(1)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(1)
BOCO(2)
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
V
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(4)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(1)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(2)
BOCO(1)
BOCO(2)
GARDEN PLANTING: GROUND COVERS, PERENNIALS, GRASSES & VINES
SYMBLE
KEY
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
MINIMUM SIZE
(SPRD.X HEIGHT.)
CONTAINER
CLASS
WUCLOS
NOTES
BOCO
BOUGAINVILLEA
COMM.
BOUGAINVILLEA
2' x 2'
CG  # 3
LOW
V
GARDEN PLANTING: GROUND COVERS, PERENNIALS, GRASSES & VINES
SYMBLE
KEY
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
MINIMUM SIZE
(SPRD.X HEIGHT.)
CONTAINER
CLASS
WUCLOS
NOTES
BOCO
BOUGAINVILLEA
COMM.
BOUGAINVILLEA
2' x 2'
CG  # 3
LOW
V
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L2.02
PLANTING PLAN
LEVEL_3
20
5
0
SCALE:  1" = 10'
10
TRUE NORTH
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 125 ---
UP
BBQ
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
LAVE ( 1 )
LAVE ( 1 )
LAVE ( 1 )
LAVE ( 1 )
ANGO ( 1 )
ANGO ( 1 )
HEPA ( 1 )
HEPA ( 2 )
ANGO ( 1 )
LAVE ( 1 )
OPJA ( 16 )
GARDEN PLANTING: GROUND COVERS, PERENNIALS, GRASSES & VINES
SYMBLE
KEY
BOTANICAL NAME
COMMON NAME
MINIMUM SIZE
(SPRD.X HEIGHT.)
CONTAINER
CLASS
WUCLOS
NOTES
ANGO
ANIGOZANTHOS
VAR.
DWARF KANGAROO PAW
1.5' X 1.5'
CG  # 1,2
VERY LOW
FULL SUN |
PARTIALLY
SHADE
TOLERANCE
HECA
HEUCERA
'CANYON DUET'
CORAL BELLS
1' X 1'
CG  # 1,2
LOW
HEPA
HEUCHERA
'PALACE PURPLE'
PALACE PURPLE CORAL
BELLS
1.5' X 1.5'
CG  # 1,2
LOW
LAVE
LAVENDULA X
INTERMEDIA
'PROVENCE'
FRENCH LAVENDER
2.5' X 2.5'
CG  # 2
LOW
LIPE
LIMONIUM PEREZII
SEA LAVENDER
2' X 1.5'
CG  # 2
LOW
OPJA
OPHIOPAGAN
JAPONICUS 'NIGRO'
BLACK MONDO GRASS
1' X 0.75'
CG  # 1
MODERATE
AREA CALCULATION
LANDSCAPE AREA
48 SF
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L2.03
PLANTING PLAN
LEVEL_8
20
5
0
SCALE:  1" = 10'
10
TRUE NORTH
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 126 ---
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
DESIGN-BUILD IRRIGATION SHALL MEET THE FOLLOWING REQUIREMENTS
1.
ALL LANDSCAPE AREAS WILL BE PERMANENTLY IRRIGATED USING A FULLY
AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION SYSTEM.
2.
SYSTEM WILL BE  100%SUB-SURFACE DRIP IRRIGATION WITH A
COMBINATION OF DRIP EMITTERS AND EMITTER RINGS.
3.
ALL IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENTS WILL UTILIZE HIGH EFFICIENCY DESIGN
AND EQUIPMENT COMPONENTS IN CONFORMANCE WITH CITY OF SAN
MATEO STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
4.
THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM DESIGN WILL COMPLY WITH ABA  1881
REQUIREMENTS .FOLLOW THE STATEWIDE MODEL ORDINANCE GUIDELINE
AND CITY REQUIREMENTS WITH THE USE OF WATER-EFFICIENCY
LANDSCAPE AND LOW WATER USE PLANTS.
5.
IRRIGATION SYSTEM PLANS AND DESIGN WILL BE PROVIDED AT A LATER
DATE
6.
INSTALL WEATHER BASED IRRIGATION TIMER AND FLOW SENSOR.
SPECIFIED CONTROLLER NEEDS A MONTHLY FEE TO BE ACTIVE. CONSIDER
A WEATHER BASED CONTROLLER THAT EITHER COLLECTS WEATHER DATA
ON SITE OR IS CONNECTED TO INTERNET TO COLLECT WEATHER DATA.
7.
IRRIGATION CONTROLLERS SHALL BE OF A TYPE WHICH DOES NOT LOSE
8.
PROGRAMMING DATA IN THE EVENT THE PRIMARY POWER SOURCE IS
INTERRUPTED.
9.
PRESSURE REGULATORS SHALL BE INSTALLED ON THE IRRIGATION
SYSTEM TO ENSURE THE DYNAMIC PRESSURE OF THE SYSTEM IS WITHIN
THE MANUFACTURERS RECOMMENDED PRESSURE RANGE.
10. MANUAL SHUT-OFF VALVES (SUCH AS A GATE VALVE ,BALL VALVE ,OR
BUTTERFLY VALVE )SHALL BE INSTALLED AS CLOSE AS POSSIBLE TO THE
POINT OF CONNECTION OF THE WATER SUPPLY.
11. ALL IRRIGATION EMITTER DEVICES MUST MEET THE REQUIREMENTS SET IN
THE ANSI STANDARD ,ASABE/ICC " .802-2014LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION
SPRINKLER AND EMITTER STANDARD ",ALL SPRINKLER HEADS INSTALLED
IN THE LANDSCAPE MUST DOCUMENT A DISTRIBUTION UNIFORMITY LOW
QUARTER OF  0.65OR HIGHER USING THE PROTOCOL DEFINED IN
ASABE/ICC .802-2014
12. AREAS LESS THAN TEN FEET IN WIDTH IN ANY DIRECTION SHALL BE
IRRIGATED WITH SUBSURFACE IRRIGATION OR OTHER MEANS THAT
PRODUCES NO RUNOFF OR OVERSPRAY
13. ONCE ENTIRE LANDSCAPE IS INSTALLED CONTACT MID-PENINSULA
WATER DISTRICT TO SCHEDULE A FINAL WELO INSPECTION. WELO REPORT
GENERATED FROM INSPECTION NEEDS TO BE TURNED IN TO MPWD TO BE
SIGNED OFF PRIOR TO CLOSING BUILDING PERMIT.
14. A CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION WILL NEED TO BE TURNED IN TO MPWD
WITH FINAL WELO REPORT TO BE SIGNED OFF PRIOR TO CLOSING
BUILDING PERMIT.
DESIGN-BUILD IRRIGATION NOTES
WATER USE TABLE
HYDROZONING NAME
PLANT WATER USE TYPE
IRRIGATION
METHOD
PLANT FACTOR
(PF)
IRRIGATION
METHOD
IRRIGATION
EFFICIENCY
ETAF(PF/IE)
AREA
AREA X ETAF (HA)
ETWU ( GAL/YR )
STREETSCAPE PLANTING
LOW
DRIP
0.3
BUBBLER
0.81
0.370
1466 SF
542
14440
STORM WATER PLANTING
MEDIUM
DRIP
0.45
BUBBLER
0.81
0.370
35SF
13
350
GARDEN PLANTING
LOW
DRIP
0.3
BUBBLER
0.81
0.370
897 SF
332
8828
TOTAL
2398 SF
887
23618
ETWU FORMULA
ESTIMATED TOTAL WATER USE( ETWU ) GALLONS PER YEAE
ETWU = ((ETO)(0.62)(ETAF X LA))
ETO = REFERENCE EVAPOTRANSPIRATION
PF=PLANT FACTOR FOR HYDROZONES
HA=HYDROZONE AREA ( SQ.FT)
0.62=CONVERSION FACTOR (GALLON/SQ.FT/YR)
WATER USE CALCULATIONS - SITE
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L3.01
IRRIGATION PLAN
_SITE
20
5
0
SCALE:  1" = 10'
10
TRUE NORTH
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 127 ---
DN
UP
DESIGN-BUILD IRRIGATION SHALL MEET THE FOLLOWING REQUIREMENTS
1.
ALL LANDSCAPE AREAS WILL BE PERMANENTLY IRRIGATED USING A FULLY
AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION SYSTEM.
2.
SYSTEM WILL BE  100%SUB-SURFACE DRIP IRRIGATION WITH A
COMBINATION OF DRIP EMITTERS AND EMITTER RINGS.
3.
ALL IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENTS WILL UTILIZE HIGH EFFICIENCY DESIGN
AND EQUIPMENT COMPONENTS IN CONFORMANCE WITH CITY OF SAN
MATEO STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
4.
THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM DESIGN WILL COMPLY WITH ABA  1881
REQUIREMENTS .FOLLOW THE STATEWIDE MODEL ORDINANCE GUIDELINE
AND CITY REQUIREMENTS WITH THE USE OF WATER-EFFICIENCY
LANDSCAPE AND LOW WATER USE PLANTS.
5.
IRRIGATION SYSTEM PLANS AND DESIGN WILL BE PROVIDED AT A LATER
DATE
6.
INSTALL WEATHER BASED IRRIGATION TIMER AND FLOW SENSOR.
SPECIFIED CONTROLLER NEEDS A MONTHLY FEE TO BE ACTIVE. CONSIDER
A WEATHER BASED CONTROLLER THAT EITHER COLLECTS WEATHER DATA
ON SITE OR IS CONNECTED TO INTERNET TO COLLECT WEATHER DATA.
7.
IRRIGATION CONTROLLERS SHALL BE OF A TYPE WHICH DOES NOT LOSE
8.
PROGRAMMING DATA IN THE EVENT THE PRIMARY POWER SOURCE IS
INTERRUPTED.
9.
PRESSURE REGULATORS SHALL BE INSTALLED ON THE IRRIGATION
SYSTEM TO ENSURE THE DYNAMIC PRESSURE OF THE SYSTEM IS WITHIN
THE MANUFACTURERS RECOMMENDED PRESSURE RANGE.
10. MANUAL SHUT-OFF VALVES (SUCH AS A GATE VALVE ,BALL VALVE ,OR
BUTTERFLY VALVE )SHALL BE INSTALLED AS CLOSE AS POSSIBLE TO THE
POINT OF CONNECTION OF THE WATER SUPPLY.
11. ALL IRRIGATION EMITTER DEVICES MUST MEET THE REQUIREMENTS SET IN
THE ANSI STANDARD ,ASABE/ICC " .802-2014LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION
SPRINKLER AND EMITTER STANDARD ",ALL SPRINKLER HEADS INSTALLED
IN THE LANDSCAPE MUST DOCUMENT A DISTRIBUTION UNIFORMITY LOW
QUARTER OF  0.65OR HIGHER USING THE PROTOCOL DEFINED IN
ASABE/ICC .802-2014
12. AREAS LESS THAN TEN FEET IN WIDTH IN ANY DIRECTION SHALL BE
IRRIGATED WITH SUBSURFACE IRRIGATION OR OTHER MEANS THAT
PRODUCES NO RUNOFF OR OVERSPRAY
13. ONCE ENTIRE LANDSCAPE IS INSTALLED CONTACT MID-PENINSULA
WATER DISTRICT TO SCHEDULE A FINAL WELO INSPECTION. WELO REPORT
GENERATED FROM INSPECTION NEEDS TO BE TURNED IN TO MPWD TO BE
SIGNED OFF PRIOR TO CLOSING BUILDING PERMIT.
14. A CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION WILL NEED TO BE TURNED IN TO MPWD
WITH FINAL WELO REPORT TO BE SIGNED OFF PRIOR TO CLOSING
BUILDING PERMIT.
DESIGN-BUILD IRRIGATION NOTES
WATER USE TABLE
HYDROZONING NAME
PLANT WATER USE TYPE
IRRIGATION
METHOD
PLANT FACTOR
(PF)
IRRIGATION
METHOD
IRRIGATION
EFFICIENCY
ETAF(PF/IE)
AREA
AREA X ETAF (HA)
ETWU ( GAL/YR )
PLANTER PLANTING
LOW
DRIP
0.3
BUBBLER
0.81
0.370
105 SF
40
1033
ETWU FORMULA
ESTIMATED TOTAL WATER USE( ETWU ) GALLONS PER YEAE
ETWU = ((ETO)(0.62)(ETAF X LA))
ETO = REFERENCE EVAPOTRANSPIRATION
PF=PLANT FACTOR FOR HYDROZONES
HA=HYDROZONE AREA ( SQ.FT)
0.62=CONVERSION FACTOR (GALLON/SQ.FT/YR)
WATER USE CALCULATIONS - LEVEL3
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L3.02
IRRIGATION PLAN
LEVEL_3
20
5
0
SCALE:  1" = 10'
10
TRUE NORTH
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 128 ---
UP
871 SF
THE DEN
658 SF
AMENITY DECK
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
3-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
TRASH
RESTROOM
BBQ
614 SF
AMENITY DECK
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
2 1/2"
PER
FOOT
STAIR-02
DESIGN-BUILD IRRIGATION SHALL MEET THE FOLLOWING REQUIREMENTS
1.
ALL LANDSCAPE AREAS WILL BE PERMANENTLY IRRIGATED USING A FULLY
AUTOMATIC IRRIGATION SYSTEM.
2.
SYSTEM WILL BE  100%SUB-SURFACE DRIP IRRIGATION WITH A
COMBINATION OF DRIP EMITTERS AND EMITTER RINGS.
3.
ALL IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENTS WILL UTILIZE HIGH EFFICIENCY DESIGN
AND EQUIPMENT COMPONENTS IN CONFORMANCE WITH CITY OF SAN
MATEO STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
4.
THE IRRIGATION SYSTEM DESIGN WILL COMPLY WITH ABA  1881
REQUIREMENTS .FOLLOW THE STATEWIDE MODEL ORDINANCE GUIDELINE
AND CITY REQUIREMENTS WITH THE USE OF WATER-EFFICIENCY
LANDSCAPE AND LOW WATER USE PLANTS.
5.
IRRIGATION SYSTEM PLANS AND DESIGN WILL BE PROVIDED AT A LATER
DATE
6.
INSTALL WEATHER BASED IRRIGATION TIMER AND FLOW SENSOR.
SPECIFIED CONTROLLER NEEDS A MONTHLY FEE TO BE ACTIVE. CONSIDER
A WEATHER BASED CONTROLLER THAT EITHER COLLECTS WEATHER DATA
ON SITE OR IS CONNECTED TO INTERNET TO COLLECT WEATHER DATA.
7.
IRRIGATION CONTROLLERS SHALL BE OF A TYPE WHICH DOES NOT LOSE
8.
PROGRAMMING DATA IN THE EVENT THE PRIMARY POWER SOURCE IS
INTERRUPTED.
9.
PRESSURE REGULATORS SHALL BE INSTALLED ON THE IRRIGATION
SYSTEM TO ENSURE THE DYNAMIC PRESSURE OF THE SYSTEM IS WITHIN
THE MANUFACTURERS RECOMMENDED PRESSURE RANGE.
10. MANUAL SHUT-OFF VALVES (SUCH AS A GATE VALVE ,BALL VALVE ,OR
BUTTERFLY VALVE )SHALL BE INSTALLED AS CLOSE AS POSSIBLE TO THE
POINT OF CONNECTION OF THE WATER SUPPLY.
11. ALL IRRIGATION EMITTER DEVICES MUST MEET THE REQUIREMENTS SET IN
THE ANSI STANDARD ,ASABE/ICC " .802-2014LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION
SPRINKLER AND EMITTER STANDARD ",ALL SPRINKLER HEADS INSTALLED
IN THE LANDSCAPE MUST DOCUMENT A DISTRIBUTION UNIFORMITY LOW
QUARTER OF  0.65OR HIGHER USING THE PROTOCOL DEFINED IN
ASABE/ICC .802-2014
12. AREAS LESS THAN TEN FEET IN WIDTH IN ANY DIRECTION SHALL BE
IRRIGATED WITH SUBSURFACE IRRIGATION OR OTHER MEANS THAT
PRODUCES NO RUNOFF OR OVERSPRAY
13. ONCE ENTIRE LANDSCAPE IS INSTALLED CONTACT MID-PENINSULA
WATER DISTRICT TO SCHEDULE A FINAL WELO INSPECTION. WELO REPORT
GENERATED FROM INSPECTION NEEDS TO BE TURNED IN TO MPWD TO BE
SIGNED OFF PRIOR TO CLOSING BUILDING PERMIT.
14. A CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION WILL NEED TO BE TURNED IN TO MPWD
WITH FINAL WELO REPORT TO BE SIGNED OFF PRIOR TO CLOSING
BUILDING PERMIT.
DESIGN-BUILD IRRIGATION NOTES
WATER USE TABLE
HYDROZONING NAME
PLANT WATER USE TYPE
IRRIGATION
METHOD
PLANT FACTOR
(PF)
IRRIGATION
METHOD
IRRIGATION
EFFICIENCY
ETAF(PF/IE)
AREA
AREA X ETAF (HA)
ETWU ( GAL/YR )
PLANTER PLANTING
LOW
DRIP
0.3
BUBBLER
0.81
0.370
64 SF
24
630
ETWU FORMULA
ESTIMATED TOTAL WATER USE( ETWU ) GALLONS PER YEAE
ETWU = ((ETO)(0.62)(ETAF X LA))
ETO = REFERENCE EVAPOTRANSPIRATION
PF=PLANT FACTOR FOR HYDROZONES
HA=HYDROZONE AREA ( SQ.FT)
0.62=CONVERSION FACTOR (GALLON/SQ.FT/YR)
WATER USE CALCULATIONS - LEVEL8
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
L3.03
IRRIGATION PLAN
LEVEL_8
20
5
0
SCALE:  1" = 10'
10
TRUE NORTH
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 129 ---
DEPTH PER GEOTECH.
REPORT, 6" MIN.
SAN MATEO BRICK, 3 7/8 X 2 7/16 X 8 1/8
1" SAND SETTING BED, SEE SPEC.
COMPACTED SUBGRADE
PER GEOTECH RPORT
COMPACTED AGGREGATE BASE
PER GEOTECH REPORT
DEPTH PER GEOTECH.
REPORT, 6" MIN.
ALIGN EDGE OF WHOLE PAVER
ARTO_ROMAN 12X24 CONCRETE UNIT
PAVERS
1" SAND SETTING BED, SEE SPEC.
COMPACTED SUBGRADE
PER GEOTECH RPORT
COMPACTED AGGREGATE BASE
PER GEOTECH REPORT
WALL OR STRUCTURE
15"
24"
WOOD SLATS, THEMORY ASH.
24" HEIGHT METAL PLANTER
CONCRETE FOOTING
ARMREST - AT ENDS AND CENTER
WOOD SLAT BACK
L5.01
SITE FURNISHINGS
4
BIKE RACK - CITY STANDARD
2"=1'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1
BRICK PAVING
2"=1'
2
CONCRETE UNIT PAVER
2"=1'
3
FREESTANDING BENCH
2"=1'
SAN MATEO BRICK HERRINGBONE | TANGIERS COLOR
ARTO_ROMAN 12X24 CONCRETE PAVERS
SAN MATEO BRICK STACK | TANGIERS COLOR
WEATHERING STEEL
THERMORY - ASH
5
FREESTANDING PLANTER
1"=1'
FINISH WEATHERING STEEL
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 130 ---
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
99.5'
99.22'
99.2'
99.25'
CBD/S ZONE
R5-D ZONE
EXISTING 1 STORY 
COMMERCIAL BUILDING
3RD AVENUE
S ELDORADO ST
S DELAWARE ST
EXISTING 3 STORY 
COMMERCIAL BUILDING
PRIMARY BUILDING 
ENTRY
PARKING 
ENTRY
99.25'
(+/-)
(+/-)
(+/-)
(+/-)
4TH AVENUE
8 STORY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
GROUND STORY FOOTPRINT
EXISTING GAS STATION CANOPY
EXISTING COMMERCIAL BUILDING PARKING
EXISTING GAS STATION PARKING
EXISTING GAS STATION DRIVEWAY
FLOOR PLAN GENERAL NOTES
1.
2.
3.
4.
SEE SURVEY FOR EXISTING GRADING INFORMATION
SEE CIVIL PLANS FOR GRADING AND ROW CONDITIONS 
REFERENCE WAIVER DIAGRAMS G010 FOR BUILDING SETBACK 
INFORMATION
SEE EGRESS PLANS G030-G038 FOR FIRE SEPARATION 
DISTANCES AND FIRE RESISTANCE RATING INFORMATION
PRIMARY BUILDING ENTRY
SECONDARY BUILDING ENTRY
PROPOSED PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT, 
SEE CIVIL FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
SYMBOL LEGEND
1/16" = 1'-0"
A010
1
SITE PLAN OVERALL
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A010
CONTEXT SITE PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
0'0'
10'
20'
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 131 ---
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
STOP
DN
UP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
99.5'
99.22'
99.2'
PL: 207.86'
PL: 114.00'
PL: 113.82'
PL: 49.98'
PL: 100.00'
PL: 129.98'
99.25'
CBD/S ZONE
R5-D ZONE
EXISTING 3 STORY 
COMMERCIAL BUILDING
EXISTING 1 STORY 
COMMERCIAL BUILDING
3RD AVENUE
S ELDORADO ST
S DELAWARE ST
EXISTING 3 STORY 
COMMERCIAL BUILDING
PRIMARY BUILDING 
ENTRY
TRASH
(E) TRANSFORMER TO 
BE REMOVED
TRANSFORMER 
ACCESS
PARKING 
ENTRY
99.25'
LOADING / 
STAGING
TRANSFORMER 
ACCESS
SHORT TERM BIKE 
PARKING 
LOBBY
100.68'
99.16'
99.16'
100.5'
(+/-)
(+/-)
(+/-)
(+/-)
OVERHANGS/ 
PROJECTIONS ABOVE
OVERHANGS/ 
PROJECTIONS ABOVE
OVHG ABOVE
3' - 6 3/4"
OVHG ABOVE
3' - 1 1/2"
OVHG ABOVE
2' - 1 1/2"
OVHG ABOVE
1' - 4 1/2"
OVHG ABOVE
3' - 6 1/2"
8 STORY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
GROUND STORY FOOTPRINT
OVHG ABOVE
2' - 11 1/2"
OVHG ABOVE
2' - 6"
MAX SETBACK
MIN SETBACK
MAX SETBACK
MIN SETBACK
MIN SETBACK
MAX SETBACK
14' - 5"
5' - 0"
6' - 0"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
100.33'
100.33'
100.33'
100.33'
100.33'
99.2'
99.16'
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
45' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 6"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
59' - 0 1/2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
3' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
1' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
2' - 5"
2' - 9"
3' - 1"
4"
2' - 5"
7"
24' - 1"
1' - 11"
9' - 1"
1' - 3"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
1' - 4"
PRELIMINARY LOCATION OF 
FREESTANDING PUBLIC ART 
PUBLIC EASEMENT 
[DIAGONAL HATCH]
100.5'
FLOOR PLAN GENERAL NOTES
1.
2.
3.
4.
SEE SURVEY FOR EXISTING GRADING INFORMATION
SEE CIVIL PLANS FOR GRADING AND ROW CONDITIONS 
REFERENCE WAIVER DIAGRAMS G010 FOR BUILDING SETBACK 
INFORMATION
SEE EGRESS PLANS G030-G038 FOR FIRE SEPARATION 
DISTANCES AND FIRE RESISTANCE RATING INFORMATION
PRIMARY BUILDING ENTRY
SECONDARY BUILDING ENTRY
PROPOSED PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT, 
SEE CIVIL FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
SYMBOL LEGEND
1" = 10'-0"
A011
1
SITE PLAN
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A011
SITE PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
0'0'
10'
20'
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 132 ---
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
UP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
1
A201
2
A201
PARKING SPACES 
43 STALLS
STAIR-01
ELEVATORS
STAIR-02
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
1' - 6"
9' - 0"
A
A
B
B
C
C
D
D
E
E
E.2
G
G
H
H
J
J
K
K
L
L
1
1
3
3
4
4
5
5
6
6
7
7
8
8
9
9
9.1
9.1
220' - 9"
143' - 7"
2' - 11 1/2"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
21' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
143' - 7"
2' - 11 1/2"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
21' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
8' - 3"
10' - 2"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
55' - 6"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
4' - 0"
220' - 9"
8' - 3"
10' - 2"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
29' - 4"
26' - 2"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
4' - 0"
18' - 0"
94' - 8 1/2"
105' - 9"
115' - 0"
51' - 0 1/4"
7' - 3 1/4"
83' - 9"
20' - 5"
35' - 1 1/4"
MUDDY PAW
UP
10% SLOPE
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
24' - 0"
10' - 0"
8' - 6"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
12' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
8' - 3"
10' - 0"
10' - 6"
6' - 3"
26' - 3"
24' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
8' - 3"
10' - 0"
10' - 6"
42 BIKE
STALLS
10' - 0"
8' - 0"
9' - 0"
15' - 11"
1
A300
10% SLOPE
[16.5% EXTERIOR, 7.8 INTERIOR]
10' - 0"
LOBBY
BIKE ROOM
UTILITY
UTILITY
SHOP
PROPOSED SETBACK
6' - 9 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 11 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 6 1/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 5 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3 3/4"
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A100
P1 FLOOR PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1/8" = 1'-0"
A100
1
P1
N
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 133 ---
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
DN
UP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
UP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
ELEVATORS
1,458 SF
LOBBY & LEASING
TRANSFORMER
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
1
A201
2
A201
STAIR-02
UP
PARKING SPACES 
12 STALLS
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
BIKES
STAIR-01
CORRIDOR
9' - 0"
8' - 9"
4.8% SLOPE
A
A
B
B
C
C
D
D
E
E
F
F
E.2
G
G
H
H
J
J
K
K
J.1
J.1
1
1
2
3
3
4
4
5
5
6
6
7
7
7.1
7.1
8
8
9
9
9.1
9.1
A.1
A.1
TRASH
TRASH
147' - 5 1/4"
2' - 6 1/4"
1' - 4"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
1' - 0"
20' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
212' - 6"
144' - 11"
97' - 6"
115' - 0"
212' - 6"
10' - 2"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
27' - 6"
1' - 10"
26' - 2"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
1' - 8"2' - 4"
1' - 4"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
1' - 0"
20' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
94' - 1"
50' - 10"
31' - 11 3/4"
114' - 1 1/2"
9' - 2"
1' - 0"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
1' - 8"
27' - 6"
CORRIDOR
18' - 0"
161 SF
ND OFFICE
222 SF
WORK ROOM
74 SF
PARCEL
182 SF
AMAZON
292 SF
THE POST
REFRESH & RELAX
ELEC
ELEC
GENERATOR
UP
10% SLOPE
DN
10% SLOPE
1' - 0"
24' - 0"
1' - 0"
24' - 0"
9' - 7"
8' - 5"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
5' - 9 3/4"
9' - 0"
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL
ROOM
50 BIKE STALLS
R 14' - 7"
R 13' - 0"
R 39' - 7"
R 38' - 7"
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
5"
1' - 0"
24' - 0"
1' - 0"
CORRIDOR
DOMESTIC
WATER
1
A300
10% SLOPE
[7.8% AT EXTERIOR BOUNDARY, 
16.5% AT INTERIOR BOUNDARY]
TRASH CHUTE LOCATION TO BE FINALIZED 
TO ELIMINATE CHUTE OFFSETS
PROPOSED SETBACK
9' - 0 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
2' - 9 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 3 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 11"
COIL-UP DOORS AT PARKING ENTRY WITH SECURED ACCESS. 
SEE A220 FOR GATE PRODUCT INFORMATION. 
2' - 10"
11' - 0"
2' - 0"
11' - 0"
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
TRASH
3
A300
RESTROOM
6' - 4 13/64"
MECHANICAL
ROOM
N
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A101
GROUND STORY
PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03
1/8" = 1'-0"
A101
1
LEVEL 01 FLOOR PLAN

--- page 134 ---
DN
UP
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
TH - 2ND LEVEL
STAIR-02
1-BED
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
1
A201
2
A201
ELEVATORS
TH - 2ND LEVEL
TH - 2ND LEVEL
TH - 2ND LEVEL
PARKING SPACES 
18  STALLS
OPEN TO BELOW
STAIR-01
URBAN
A
A
B
B
C
C
D
D
E
E
F
F
E.2
F.2
G
G
H
H
J
J
K
K
J.1
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
5
5
6
6
7
7
7.1
7.1
8
8
9
9
9.1
9.1
A.1
A.1
147' - 5 1/4"
2' - 6 1/4"
1' - 4"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
1' - 0"
20' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
212' - 6"
144' - 11"
97' - 6"
115' - 0"
212' - 6"
10' - 2"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
27' - 6"
1' - 10"
26' - 2"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
1' - 8"2' - 4"
1' - 4"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
1' - 0"
20' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
94' - 1"
50' - 10"
146' - 1 1/4"
9' - 2"
1' - 0"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
17' - 10"
9' - 8"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
1' - 8"
76' - 10"
124' - 2"
21' - 6"
BIKE ROOM
STUDY
CORRRIDOR
TRASH
PHONE
PHONE
PHONE
PHONE
SERENITY STUDIO
SPA LOUNGE
SAUNA
RESTROOM
GENERATOR
DN
10% SLOPE
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
10' - 9"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 1 7/8"
10' - 0"
48 BIKE STALLS
UTILITY
1
A300
STUDIO
27' - 3 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
9' - 0 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
4 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
2' - 9 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 3 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 11"
10% SLOPE
[7.8% AT EXTERIOR BOUNDARY, 
16.5% AT INTERIOR BOUNDARY]
1/8" = 1'-0"
A102
1
LEVEL 02 FLOOR PLAN
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A102
2ND STORY PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 135 ---
DN
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
1
A201
2
A201
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
684 SF
STRENGTH STUDIO
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
STAIR-02
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
533 SF
AMENITY DECK
B
B
C
C
D
D
E
E
F
F
F.2
G
G
H
H
J
J
J.1
J.1
A.2
A.2
E.1
E.1
1
1
4
4
5
5
6
6
7
7
8
8
3.2
3.2
6.3
6.3
F.1
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
144' - 1 1/4"
200' - 5"
134' - 9"
200' - 5"
79' - 8"
120' - 9"
1' - 0"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
20' - 8"
6' - 10"
11' - 1"
16' - 11"
28' - 0"
50' - 8"
42' - 10"
50' - 7 1/4"
6' - 8 1/4"
2' - 8"
9' - 8"
26' - 10"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
1' - 0"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
17' - 10"
9' - 8"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
1' - 1"
9' - 4 1/4"
84' - 11"
1' - 4" 4' - 11"
15' - 8"
9' - 5"
18' - 5"
26' - 10"
9' - 8"
2' - 8"
C.1
5.1
5.1
9' - 5"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
1' - 4"
21' - 6"
27' - 0"
4' - 8"
13' - 9"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
10' - 7"
17' - 5"
28' - 10"
1' - 1"
49' - 10"
21' - 6"
27' - 0"
TRASH
3' - 11 1/2"
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 2 1/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 0 3/4"
5' - 6"
1/8" = 1'-0"
A103
2
LEVEL 03 FLOOR PLAN
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A103
3RD STORY PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 136 ---
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
1
A201
2
A201
F.2
J.1
J.1
A.2
A.2
E.1
E.1
1
1
6.3
6.3
F.1
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
2-BED B
2-BED A
URBAN B
2-BED F
2-BED D
2-BED C
URBAN B
1-BED
URBAN C
URBAN A
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN A
URBAN A
1-BED
2-BED E
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN B
URBAN A
URBAN A
1-BED
144' - 1 1/4"
200' - 5"
200' - 5"
79' - 8"
120' - 9"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
67' - 0"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
C.1
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
5.1
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
CLR
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
6' - 6 1/2"
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
A.5
6' - 2 3/4"
6' - 2 3/4"
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 1 1/4"
5' - 11"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 1"
STAIR-02
5' - 6"
63' - 5 95/128"
1/8" = 1'-0"
A104
2
LEVEL 04 FLOOR PLAN
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A104
4TH STORY PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 137 ---
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
1
A201
2
A201
F.2
J.1
J.1
A.2
A.2
E.1
E.1
1
1
6.3
6.3
F.1
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
C.1
5.1
5.1
144' - 1 1/4"
200' - 5"
200' - 5"
79' - 8"
120' - 9"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
67' - 0"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
A.5
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 1"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 2 1/4"
STAIR-02
5' - 6"
1/8" = 1'-0"
A105
1
LEVEL 05 FLOOR PLAN
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A105
5TH STORY PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 138 ---
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
1
A201
2
A201
0"
F.2
J.1
J.1
A.2
A.2
E.1
E.1
1
1
6.3
6.3
F.1
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
C.1
5.1
5.1
144' - 1 1/4"
200' - 5"
200' - 5"
79' - 8"
120' - 9"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
67' - 0"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
A.5
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 1"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 2 1/4"
STAIR-02
5' - 6"
1/8" = 1'-0"
A106
1
LEVEL 06 FLOOR PLAN
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A106
6TH STORY PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 139 ---
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
1
A201
2
A201
F.2
J.1
J.1
A.2
A.2
E.1
E.1
1
1
6.3
6.3
F.1
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
C.1
5.1
5.1
144' - 1 1/4"
200' - 5"
200' - 5"
79' - 8"
120' - 9"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
67' - 0"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
A.5
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 1"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 2 1/4"
STAIR-02
5' - 6"
1/8" = 1'-0"
A107
1
LEVEL 07 FLOOR PLAN
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A107
7TH STORY PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 140 ---
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
1
A201
2
A201
3' - 8"
F.2
J.1
J.1
A.2
A.2
E.1
1
1
6.3
6.3
F.1
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
C.1
5.1
144' - 1 1/4"
200' - 5"
200' - 5"
79' - 8"
120' - 9"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
67' - 0"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
871 SF
THE DEN
653 SF
AMENITY DECK
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
3-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
36' - 1"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
RESTROOM
BBQ
609 SF
AMENITY DECK
3' - 6 1/2"
3' - 7 1/2"
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
A.5
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 1"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 2 1/4"
STAIR-02
5' - 6"
(GROSS)
743 SF (NET)
1/8" = 1'-0"
A108
2
LEVEL 08 FLOOR PLAN
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A108
8TH STORY PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 141 ---
RTU
RTU
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
1
A201
2
A201
SW - 8TH - 3
TPO MEMBRANE ROOFING, TYP
TERRA COTTA TILE ROOF BELOW
GUTTER
F.2
J.1
J.1
A.2
A.2
E.1
1
1
6.3
6.3
F.1
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
C.1
5.1
144' - 1 1/4"
200' - 5"
200' - 5"
79' - 8"
120' - 9"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
20' - 9"
46' - 3"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
FIRE WALL BELOW
NO PENETRATION ZONE
NO PENETRATION ZONE
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
TRASH
EXHAUST
GARAGE
EXHAUST
TRELLIS BELOW
3' - 0 1/4"
3' - 6 1/2"
3' - 7 1/2"
WALK PADS
AIR CONDENSING UNITS 
MOUNTED ON ISOLATION PADS
A.5
SOLAR ZONE
1,120 SF
SOLAR ZONE
1,350 SF
TYP.
2' - 0"
SOLAR ZONE
330 SF
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
9' - 8 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 1 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
4' - 0 1/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 0 1/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
25' - 5"
SOLAR ZONE [15% OF TOTAL ROOF AREA]
TOTAL ROOF AREA: 18,480 SF
REQUIRED SOLAR ZONE: 2,772 SF
PROPOSED SOLAR ZONE: 2,800 SF
SYMBOL LEGEND
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A109
ROOF PLAN
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1/8" = 1'-0"
A109
1
ROOF
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 142 ---
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
1' - 0"
10' - 5"
10' - 2"
10' - 6"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 11"
11' - 3"
HEIGHT FROM GRADE PLANE
83' - 9"
FCP-1
TCT-1
MTL-2
FCP-1
TCT-1
TCT-1
MTL-2
MTL-1
1
2
8
3
6
7
TRM-1
10
CS-1
2
2
8
BR-1
TCT-1
PL
PL
11
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
MTL-1
DT-1
HEIGHT FROM GRADE PLANE
88' - 10"
BR-1
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
11' - 3"
10' - 11"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 6"
10' - 2"
10' - 5"
1' - 0"
83' - 9"
4
2
10
8
8
TRM-1
TCT-1
2
PL
PL
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
3' - 6 1/2"
HEIGHT FROM GRADE PLANE
88' - 6"
HEIGHT FROM GRADE PLANE
88' - 11"
CS-1
MTL-2
TCT-1
FCP-1
MTL-1
5
7
11
MTL-1
8
1/8" = 1'-0"
A200
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTHWEST
1/8" = 1'-0"
A200
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - NORTHEAST
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A200
EXTERIOR
ELEVATIONS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03
12
METAL MESH SCREEN
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
11
ARCHITECTURAL RAFTER TAIL
PAINTED
N/A
DARK BROWN, SW 9580 CRACKED
PEPPER / RAL 8019
10
RESIDENTIAL PLANTERS
WEATHERED STEEL
N/A
WEATHERED STEEL, NATURAL
PATINA
9
STORMWATER PLATERS
BOARD-FORMED CONCRETE
N/A
NATURAL
8
WINDOWS 2
ALUMINUM, STEEL-LOOK
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
7
WINDOWS 1
VINYL
VPI OR SIM.
BLACK
6
STOREFRONTS
TIMBERLITE 2.0 CURTAIN WALL
SIERRA PACIFIC
WHITE OAK BEAMS AND EXTERIOR
CAPS, DARK BROWN STAIN
5
UTILITY SECTIONAL DOOR
GLAZED
HORMANN
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
4
HIGH-SPEED COIL-UP VEHICAL
ENTRY DOOR
PERFORATED
HORMANN
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
3
GATES
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
2
GUARDRAILS & BALCONIES
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
1
AWNINGS
FABRIC
SUNBRELLA
SUNBRELLA SHADE, BLACK,
4608-0000
#
COMPONENT
MATERIAL
MANUFACTURER
COLOR
DETAIL COMPONENTS LEGEND
TRM-1
TRIM
PAINTED
N/A
SW 9165 GOSSAMER VEIL
MTL-2
METAL PERGOLA
PAINTED METAL
N/A
DARK BROWN, SW 9580 CRACKED
PEPPER / RAL 8019
MTL-1
BRAKE METAL, FLASHING,
COPING, & DOWNSPOUTS
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
FCB-1
FIBER CEMENT BOARD
PAINTED
JAMES HARDIE
DARK BROWN, SW 9580 CRACKED
PEPPER
TCT-1
TERRA COTTA ROOF TILE
S-TILE
WESTLAKE ROYAL ROOFING
NEWPORT BLEND
DT-1
DECORATIVE TILE
2" X  8" GLAZED BRICK TILE
FIRECLAY TILE
LIGHT BLUE, CUSTOM COLOR
MATCH TO 'CRATER LAKE'
SV-1
NATURAL STONE VENEER
LIMESTONE SLAB
INTREPID
GASCOGNE BLUE
FCP-1
FIBER CEMENT PANELS
ARTISAN SIDING, V-GROOVE, 8.25" WIDTH
JAMES HARDIE
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE
BR-1
BRICK
FACE BRICK, RUNNING BOND, STANDARD
DIMENSION [3-1/2" x 2-1/2" x 7-1/2"], PAINTED
MUTUAL MATERIALS
WHITE, SW 7101 FUTON (LRV: 80)
CS-1
CEMENT STUCCO
20/30 SAND FLOAT
N/A
WHITE, SW 7101 FUTON (LRV: 80)
TAG
MATERIAL
DESCRIPTION
MANUFACTURER
COLOR
MATERIAL LEGEND
NOTE: AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION, PRODUCTS MAY BE DISCONTINUED, 
UNAVAILABLE, OR ALTERED. MANUFACTURER INFORMATION PROVIDED FOR 
REFERENCE ONLY.

--- page 143 ---
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
11' - 3"
10' - 11"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 6"
10' - 2"
10' - 5"
1' - 0"
83' - 9"
PL
PL
2
TCT-1
11
MTL-2
TCT-1
BR-1
MTL-1
BR-1
7
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
FCP-1
MTL-1
TRM-1
CS-1
8
HEIGHT FROM GRADE PLANE
88' - 3"
HEIGHT FROM GRADE PLANE
88' - 9"
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
11' - 3"
10' - 11"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 6"
10' - 2"
10' - 5"
1' - 0"
83' - 9"
PL
PL
6
7
2
TCT-1
MTL-1
MTL-2
11
2
FCP-1
MTL-1
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
SV-1
CS-1
8
HEIGHT FROM GRADE PLANE
88' - 4"
HEIGHT FROM GRADE PLANE
87' - 4"
12
BR-1
1/8" = 1'-0"
A201
1
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - SOUTHEAST
1/8" = 1'-0"
A201
2
EXTERIOR ELEVATION - SOUTHWEST
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A201
EXTERIOR
ELEVATIONS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
12
METAL MESH SCREEN
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
11
ARCHITECTURAL RAFTER TAIL
PAINTED
N/A
DARK BROWN, SW 9580 CRACKED
PEPPER / RAL 8019
10
RESIDENTIAL PLANTERS
WEATHERED STEEL
N/A
WEATHERED STEEL, NATURAL
PATINA
9
STORMWATER PLATERS
BOARD-FORMED CONCRETE
N/A
NATURAL
8
WINDOWS 2
ALUMINUM, STEEL-LOOK
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
7
WINDOWS 1
VINYL
VPI OR SIM.
BLACK
6
STOREFRONTS
TIMBERLITE 2.0 CURTAIN WALL
SIERRA PACIFIC
WHITE OAK BEAMS AND EXTERIOR
CAPS, DARK BROWN STAIN
5
UTILITY SECTIONAL DOOR
GLAZED
HORMANN
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
4
HIGH-SPEED COIL-UP VEHICAL
ENTRY DOOR
PERFORATED
HORMANN
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
3
GATES
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
2
GUARDRAILS & BALCONIES
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
1
AWNINGS
FABRIC
SUNBRELLA
SUNBRELLA SHADE, BLACK,
4608-0000
#
COMPONENT
MATERIAL
MANUFACTURER
COLOR
DETAIL COMPONENTS LEGEND
TRM-1
TRIM
PAINTED
N/A
SW 9165 GOSSAMER VEIL
MTL-2
METAL PERGOLA
PAINTED METAL
N/A
DARK BROWN, SW 9580 CRACKED
PEPPER / RAL 8019
MTL-1
BRAKE METAL, FLASHING,
COPING, & DOWNSPOUTS
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
FCB-1
FIBER CEMENT BOARD
PAINTED
JAMES HARDIE
DARK BROWN, SW 9580 CRACKED
PEPPER
TCT-1
TERRA COTTA ROOF TILE
S-TILE
WESTLAKE ROYAL ROOFING
NEWPORT BLEND
DT-1
DECORATIVE TILE
2" X  8" GLAZED BRICK TILE
FIRECLAY TILE
LIGHT BLUE, CUSTOM COLOR
MATCH TO 'CRATER LAKE'
SV-1
NATURAL STONE VENEER
LIMESTONE SLAB
INTREPID
GASCOGNE BLUE
FCP-1
FIBER CEMENT PANELS
ARTISAN SIDING, V-GROOVE, 8.25" WIDTH
JAMES HARDIE
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE
BR-1
BRICK
FACE BRICK, RUNNING BOND, STANDARD
DIMENSION [3-1/2" x 2-1/2" x 7-1/2"], PAINTED
MUTUAL MATERIALS
WHITE, SW 7101 FUTON (LRV: 80)
CS-1
CEMENT STUCCO
20/30 SAND FLOAT
N/A
WHITE, SW 7101 FUTON (LRV: 80)
TAG
MATERIAL
DESCRIPTION
MANUFACTURER
COLOR
MATERIAL LEGEND
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03
NOTE: AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION, PRODUCTS MAY BE DISCONTINUED, 
UNAVAILABLE, OR ALTERED. MANUFACTURER INFORMATION PROVIDED FOR 
REFERENCE ONLY.

--- page 144 ---
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A220
BUILDING
MATERIALS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
CS-1
BR-1
FCP-1
SV-1
DT-1
TCT-1
FCB-1
MTL-1
MTL-2
TRM-1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
12
METAL MESH SCREEN
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
11
ARCHITECTURAL RAFTER TAIL
PAINTED
N/A
DARK BROWN, SW 9580 CRACKED
PEPPER / RAL 8019
10
RESIDENTIAL PLANTERS
WEATHERED STEEL
N/A
WEATHERED STEEL, NATURAL
PATINA
9
STORMWATER PLATERS
BOARD-FORMED CONCRETE
N/A
NATURAL
8
WINDOWS 2
ALUMINUM, STEEL-LOOK
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
7
WINDOWS 1
VINYL
VPI OR SIM.
BLACK
6
STOREFRONTS
TIMBERLITE 2.0 CURTAIN WALL
SIERRA PACIFIC
WHITE OAK BEAMS AND EXTERIOR
CAPS, DARK BROWN STAIN
5
UTILITY SECTIONAL DOOR
GLAZED
HORMANN
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
4
HIGH-SPEED COIL-UP VEHICAL
ENTRY DOOR
PERFORATED
HORMANN
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
3
GATES
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
2
GUARDRAILS & BALCONIES
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
1
AWNINGS
FABRIC
SUNBRELLA
SUNBRELLA SHADE, BLACK,
4608-0000
#
COMPONENT
MATERIAL
MANUFACTURER
COLOR
DETAIL COMPONENTS LEGEND
TRM-1
TRIM
PAINTED
N/A
SW 9165 GOSSAMER VEIL
MTL-2
METAL PERGOLA
PAINTED METAL
N/A
DARK BROWN, SW 9580 CRACKED
PEPPER / RAL 8019
MTL-1
BRAKE METAL, FLASHING,
COPING, & DOWNSPOUTS
PAINTED METAL
N/A
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE /
RAL 7021
FCB-1
FIBER CEMENT BOARD
PAINTED
JAMES HARDIE
DARK BROWN, SW 9580 CRACKED
PEPPER
TCT-1
TERRA COTTA ROOF TILE
S-TILE
WESTLAKE ROYAL ROOFING
NEWPORT BLEND
DT-1
DECORATIVE TILE
2" X  8" GLAZED BRICK TILE
FIRECLAY TILE
LIGHT BLUE, CUSTOM COLOR
MATCH TO 'CRATER LAKE'
SV-1
NATURAL STONE VENEER
LIMESTONE SLAB
INTREPID
GASCOGNE BLUE
FCP-1
FIBER CEMENT PANELS
ARTISAN SIDING, V-GROOVE, 8.25" WIDTH
JAMES HARDIE
CHARCOAL, SW 7069 IRON ORE
BR-1
BRICK
FACE BRICK, RUNNING BOND, STANDARD
DIMENSION [3-1/2" x 2-1/2" x 7-1/2"], PAINTED
MUTUAL MATERIALS
WHITE, SW 7101 FUTON (LRV: 80)
CS-1
CEMENT STUCCO
20/30 SAND FLOAT
N/A
WHITE, SW 7101 FUTON (LRV: 80)
TAG
MATERIAL
DESCRIPTION
MANUFACTURER
COLOR
MATERIAL LEGEND
NOTE: AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION, PRODUCTS MAY BE DISCONTINUED, 
UNAVAILABLE, OR ALTERED. MANUFACTURER INFORMATION PROVIDED FOR 
REFERENCE ONLY.
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 145 ---
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 6"
PARKING
CORRIDOR
1- BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2- BED
PARAPET
3' - 6"
ELEC
CORRIDOR
1- BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2- BED
CORRIDOR
1- BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2- BED
CORRIDOR
1- BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2- BED
CORRIDOR
1- BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2- BED
CORRIDOR
1- BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2- BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
TYPE IIIA CONSTRUCTION
TYPE IA  CONSTRUCTION
P1
90' - 2"
11' - 3"
10' - 11"
10' - 2"
10' - 5"
10' - 6"
A
B
J
K
E.1
1- BED
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
MID POINT OF HIGHEST ROOF SURFACE
84' - 5 1/2"
MAX BUILDING HEIGHT
85' - 0"
PARKING
MAX OCCUPIED FLOOR 
74' - 11"
1- BED
1- BED
1- BED
1- BED
1- BED
1- BED
PARKING
PARKING
BIKE
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
4.8% SLOPE
GROUND STORY
100' - 8"
2ND STORY
111' - 1"
3RD STORY
121' - 3"
4TH STORY
131' - 9"
5TH STORY
141' - 11"
6TH STORY
152' - 1"
7TH STORY
162' - 3"
T.O. ROOF
184' - 5"
8TH STORY
173' - 2"
P1
90' - 2"
1
8
6.3
8.1
CBC AVG GRADE PLANE
99' - 8"
MAX ALLOWED BUILDING HEIGHT
85' - 0"
MAX ALLOWED OCCUPIED FLOOR 
75' - 0"
MID POINT OF HIGHTEST ROOF SURFACE 
84' - 6"
11' - 3"
10' - 11"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 2"
10' - 6"
10' - 2"
10' - 5"
10' - 6"
CORRIDOR
UTILITY
2-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
2-BED
CORRIDOR
UTILITY
2-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
2-BED
CORRIDOR
UTILITY
2-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
2-BED
CORRIDOR
UTILITY
2-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
2-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
CORRIDOR
UTILITY
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
TYPE IIIA CONSTRUCTION
TYPE IA  CONSTRUCTION
PARKING
PARKING
PARKING
2-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
CORRIDOR
UTILITY
2-BED
10% SLOPE AT CENTER OF SPIRAL RAMP
[7.8% AT EXTERIOR BOUNDARY, 16.5% AT INTERIOR BOUNDARY]
10% SLOPE AT CENTER OF SPIRAL RAMP
[7.8% AT EXTERIOR BOUNDARY, 16.5% AT INTERIOR BOUNDARY]
 26' - 0"
7.8% SLOPE AT EXTERIOR BOUNDARY
10% SLOPE AT CENTER
16.5% SLOPE AT INTERIOR BOUNDARY
CL
1' - 0"
24' - 0"
1' - 0"
CURB 
1/8" = 1'-0"
A300
2
BUILDING SECTION - EAST/WEST
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A300
BUILDING SECTIONS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1/8" = 1'-0"
A300
1
BUILDING SECTION - NORTH/SOUTH
1/8" = 1'-0"
A300
3
PARKING GARAGE RAMP CROSS-SECTION DIAGRAM
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 146 ---
CEMENT STUCCO
STONE VENEER
STONE CAP
2"
1 1/2"
3"
CEMENT STUCCO
BREAK METAL COPING CAP
3 1/4"
3 1/2"
BREAK METAL FLASHING
BR-1
GRD
BR-1
8 1/2"
1"
CEMENT STUCCO
6"
+/- 12"
+/- 4"
2"
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A500
EXTERIOR DETAILS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
3" = 1'-0"
A500
3
STUCCO TO STONE TRANSITION DETAIL
3" = 1'-0"
A500
1
PARAPET COPING CAP
3" = 1'-0"
A500
4
BRICK REVEAL AT TOWNHOMES
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03
3" = 1'-0"
A500
5
STUCCO CORNICE DETAIL PROFILE

--- page 147 ---
GRD
DIM PT
R.O.
STUCCO
WITH SELF FURRING LATH
VINYL WINDOW
GRD
STUCCO
WITH SELF FURRING LATH
STUCCO SILL W/ FOAM BLOCK OUT 
VINYL WINDOW, TYPICAL
STUCCO
JAMB RETURN, BEYOND
DIM PT
R.O.
2"
3"
12
1.5
GRD
STUCCO
WITH SELF FURRING LATH,
RETURN AT WINDOW JAMB
VINYL WINDOW, TYPICAL
SILL, BEYOND
DIM PT
R.O.
4 7/8"
FIBERGLASS
SURROUND
PRE-FAB ALUMINUM 
BALCONY
6"
FCP-1
VINYL WINDOW
GRD
DIM PT
R.O.
FCP-1
MANUFACTURERS 
STANDARD SILL TRIM
VINYL WINDOW
JAMB CASING, BEYOND
GRD
DIM PT
R.O.
LEVEL X
0' - 0"
FCP-1
VINYL WINDOW
SILL, BEYOND
F.O. EXT. FINISH
GRD
DIM PT
R.O.
3 3/4"
GRD
DIM PT
R.O.
LEVEL X
0' - 0"
VINYL WINDOW
1"
BR-1
ROWLOCK SILL
BR-1 JAMB, BEYOND
CLOSURE METAL
WND R.O.
DIM PT
BR-1
STEEL ANGLE
VINYL WINDOW
GRD
WND R.O.
DIM PT
BR-1
VINYL WINDOW
GRD
7 1/2"
F.O. EXT. FINISH
BR-1 JAMB RETURN
ROWLOCK SILL, BELOW
1 1/2"
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A501
EXTERIOR OPENING
DETAILS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
3" = 1'-0"
A501
1
WINDOW HEAD DETAIL, STUCCO
3" = 1'-0"
A501
2
WINDOW SILL DETAIL, STUCCO
3" = 1'-0"
A501
3
WINDOW JAMB DETAIL, STUCCO
3" = 1'-0"
A501
4
BALCONY JAMB, UPPER
3" = 1'-0"
A501
5
WINDOW HEAD DETAIL, FIBER CEMENT
3" = 1'-0"
A501
6
WINDOW SILL DETAIL, FIBER CEMENT
3" = 1'-0"
A501
7
WINDOW JAMB DETAIL, FIBER CEMENT
3" = 1'-0"
A501
9
WINDOW SILL DETAIL, BRICK
3" = 1'-0"
A501
8
WINDOW HEAD DETAIL, BRICK
3" = 1'-0"
A501
10
WINDOW JAMB DETAIL, BRICK
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 148 ---
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
STOP
PROPERTYLINE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
UP
DN
UP
ELEVATORS
1,458 SF
LOBBY & LEASING
TRANSFORMER
STAIR-02
UP
PARKING SPACES 
12 STALLS
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
BIKES
STAIR-01
CORRIDOR
9' - 0"
8' - 9"
TRASH
TRASH
CORRIDOR
18' - 0"
161 SF
ND OFFICE
222 SF
WORK ROOM
PARCEL
182 SF
AMAZON
292 SF
THE POST
REFRESH & RELAX
ELEC
ELEC
GENERATOR
UP
DN
24' - 0"
13' - 6"
10' - 9"
9' - 7"
8' - 5"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL
ROOM
49 BIKE STALLS
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
5"
CORRIDOR
DOMESTIC
WATER
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L4
L4
L4
L4
L4
L4
L4
L4
L4
L4
L5
L5
L5
L5
L3
L2
L2
L2
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
RESTROOM
TRASH
LIGHTING SCHEDULE
TYPE
IMAGE
FUNCTION
L4
L1
L3
L2
L5
L6
WALL SCONCE
WALL SCONCE
PENDANT
RECESSED
WALL LIGHT
WALL SCONCE
RECESSED
FLOOR
LIGHT
SIGNAGE SCHEDULE
TYPE
SIGN STYLE
WALL-MOUNT 
BUILDING NAME SIGN
SUSPENDED PARKING 
GARAGE ENTRY SIGN
1/8" = 1'-0"
A701
1
LEVEL 01 LIGHTING PLAN
N
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A701
PRELIMINARY
LIGHTING AND
SIGNAGE PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 149 ---
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
UP
DN
TH - 2ND LEVEL
STAIR-02
1-BED
ELEVATORS
TH - 2ND LEVEL
TH - 2ND LEVEL
?
PARKING SPACES 
18  STALLS
OPEN TO BELOW
STAIR-01
URBAN
BIKE ROOM
664 SF
STUDY
CORRRIDOR
TRASH
79 SF
PHONE
59 SF
PHONE
59 SF
PHONE
63 SF
PHONE
1,613 SF
SERENITY STUDIO
164 SF
SPA LOUNGE
98 SF
SAUNA
RESTROOM
GENERATOR
DN
10% SLOPE
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
10' - 9"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 1 7/8"
10' - 0"
48 BIKE STALLS
UTILITY
10' - 0"
10% SLOPE
[16.5% EXTERIOR, 7.8 INTERIOR]
L5
L5
L5
L5
LIGHTING SCHEDULE
TYPE
IMAGE
FUNCTION
L4
L1
L3
L2
L5
L6
WALL SCONCE
WALL SCONCE
PENDANT
RECESSED
WALL LIGHT
WALL SCONCE
RECESSED
FLOOR
LIGHT
1/8" = 1'-0"
A702
1
LEVEL 02 LIGHTING PLAN
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A702
PRELIMINARY
LIGHTING AND
SIGNAGE PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 150 ---
DN
UP
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
684 SF
STRENGTH STUDIO
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
STAIR-02
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
533 SF
AMENITY DECK
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
3' - 11 1/2"
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
L5
LIGHTING SCHEDULE
TYPE
IMAGE
FUNCTION
L4
L1
L3
L2
L5
L6
WALL SCONCE
WALL SCONCE
PENDANT
RECESSED
WALL LIGHT
WALL SCONCE
RECESSED
FLOOR
LIGHT
1/8" = 1'-0"
A703
2
LEVEL 03 LIGHTING PLAN
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A703
PRELIMINARY
LIGHTING AND
SIGNAGE PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 151 ---
UP
3' - 8"
871 SF
THE DEN
653 SF
AMENITY DECK
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
3-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
STAIR-02
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
36' - 1"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
RESTROOM
BBQ
609 SF
AMENITY DECK
3' - 6 1/2"
3' - 7 1/2"
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L1
L6
L6
L6
L6
L6
L6
L1
LIGHTING SCHEDULE
TYPE
IMAGE
FUNCTION
L4
L1
L3
L2
L5
L6
WALL SCONCE
WALL SCONCE
PENDANT
RECESSED
WALL LIGHT
WALL SCONCE
RECESSED
FLOOR
LIGHT
1/8" = 1'-0"
A708
2
LEVEL 08 LIGHTING PLAN
0'0'0'0'0'0'
4'
8'
16'
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A708
PRELIMINARY
LIGHTING AND
SIGNAGE PLANS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
N
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 152 ---
8' - 6"
8' - 0"
7' - 0"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
2' - 10"
3' - 4"
2' - 10"
5' - 8"
2' - 8"
4' - 0"
4' - 0"
7' - 0"
7' - 0"
8' - 0"
8' - 0"
8' - 0"
2' - 9"
2' - 9"
2' - 9"
8' - 0"
2' - 9"
5' - 6"
2' - 8"
5' - 4"
2' - 8"
5' - 5"
HEAD HEIGHT
8' - 0"
A1
A2
A3
A4
A5
A6
A7
B1
B2
B3
B4
WINDOW TYPE NOTES
1.
GLASS SHALL NOT BE REFLECTIVE
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF 
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY 
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE 
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR 
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN 
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT. 
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL 
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY, 
NOT FOR 
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
A900
WINDOWS
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD AVE
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
1/4" = 1'-0"
WINDOW LEGEND
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 153 ---
3CY
WASTE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
3CY
RECYCLE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
2CY
COMPOST
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
3CY
WASTE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
64 GAL.
RECYCLE
64 GAL.
WASTE
23 GAL.
COMPOST
3CY
RECYCLE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
55 GAL
BRUTE
TOP VIEW
55 GAL
BRUTE
TOP VIEW
3CY
WASTE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
3CY
RECYCLE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
PROPERTYLINE
A
B
C
D
E
F
E.2
G
H
J
K
J.1
L
E.1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
7.1
8
9
9.1
F.1
A.1
C.1
5.1
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD STREET
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
CONSULTINGPROJECTS@TRASHMANAGE.COM
TR0.1
SITE PLAN
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 154 ---
3CY
WASTE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
3CY
RECYCLE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
2CY
COMPOST
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
3CY
WASTE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
64 GAL.
RECYCLE
64 GAL.
WASTE
23 GAL.
COMPOST
3CY
RECYCLE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
55 GAL
BRUTE
TOP VIEW
55 GAL
BRUTE
TOP VIEW
3CY
WASTE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
3CY
RECYCLE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
ADA
SIDE
APPROACH
ADA
SIDE
APPROACH
PORTABLE BIN FOR
COMPOST. TO BE EMPTIED
DAILY INTO TRASH
COLLECTION ROOM
COMPOST CONTAINER.
Staff to mount signage at eye level
(provided on Recology of San Mateo’s
website - Signage and Guides) on
each waste and recycling trash intake
door and above 23 gallon compost
container to promote proper disposal.
Staff to maintain signage quarterly.
TRASH TERMINATION ROOM
LEVEL 1
REVISIONS:
120 NW 9TH AVE. STE. 210
PORTLAND, OREGON 97209
T 503 477 9165
www.jonesarc.com
COPYRIGHT:
THESE PLANS ARE AN INSTRUMENT OF
THE SERVICE AND ARE THE PROPERTY
OF THE ARCHITECT, AND MAY NOT BE
DUPLICATED, DISCLOSED, OR
REPRODUCED WITHOUT THE WRITTEN
CONSENT OF THE ARCHITECT.
COPYRIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENTS WILL
BE ENFORCED AND PROSECUTED.
PRELIMINARY,
NOT FOR
CONSTRUCTION
MARCH 25, 2025
GATEWAY
668 E 3RD STREET
SAN MATEO, CA
FORMAL PLANNING
APPLICATION
24-009
AMERICAN TRASH MANAGEMENT
1900 POWELL STREET, SUITE 220
EMERYVILLE, CALIFORNIA 94608
P: 415.292.5400
F: 415.292.5410
CONSULTINGPROJECTS@TRASHMANAGE.COM
TR1.0
TRASH ROOMS
2 CHUTE OPTION
UPPER CHUTE VESTIBULE
LEVEL 2-8
3/4" = 1'-0"
3/4" = 1'-0"
PROJECTED COLLECTION SCHEDULE: RESIDENTIAL TRASH ROOM
WASTE
COMPOST
SERVICE:
FREQUENCY:
CONTAINER VOL / TYPE:
(3) 3CY FL LOOSE CONTAINER
3x/wk
2x/wk
5x/wk
RECYCLING
(2-3) 3CY FL LOOSE CONTAINERS
(1) 2CY FL LOOSE CONTAINERS
*BRUTE CONTAINERS WILL BE PLACED UNDER CHUTES WHILE BINS ARE STAGED FOR SERVICED
1
7/2/25
Revision 01
2
9/23/25
Revision 02
3
12/18/25
Revision 03

--- page 155 ---
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM
NAME: “Gateway”
PA: PA-2025-025
ADDRESS: 668 E 3rd Ave
LOT SIZE: 0.64 acres (28,387 sf)
ZONING: CBD/S
APN: 034-188-140
FLOOR AREA:
PROPOSED
Approx. 169,750
MAXIMUM ALLOWED
-
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
200 du/acre
128 units
99 du/acre
(for 0.4-acre site, 63.36 units, rounds up to 
64 units)
BLDG. HEIGHT:
83’-9” to top of roof
-
STORIES:
8 stories
6 stories
UNITS:
128
64
UNIT TYPE
Studio:
1-Bedroom:
2-Bedroom:
3-Bedroom+:
TOTAL:
NO.
53
37
33
5
128
PROPOSED SIZE (unit averages)
~690 sf
~763 sf
~1,164 sf
~1,667 sf
MINIMUM SIZE
350 sf
540 sf
750 sf
960 sf
SETBACKS/STEPBACKS:
Front (E 3rd Ave)
Left Side (S. Delaware St)
Right Side (S Eldorado St)
Rear:  
PROPOSED
Front: 3.1’
Left Side: 9’
Right Side: 2.5’
Rear: 2.4’
MINIMUM REQUIRED
Front setback: 15’-20’
Front Stepback: +8’ for portion of building over 30’
Left Side: 15’-20’
Right Side: 15’-20’
Side Stepbacks: +8’ for portion of building over 25’
Rear: -
PARKING:
PROPOSED
73 standard stalls
MINIMUM REQUIRED
-
COVERED PARKING:
73
-
LOADING SPACES:
1
1
BICYCLE PARKING
Long-term:
Short-term: 
140
10
139
9
FOOTNOTES:
1.
This Project utilizes provisions of State Density Bonus Law to include increased residential density on the 
site, as well as several waivers of development standards.

--- page 156 ---
March 31, 2025 
 
Mr. Zach Dahl 
Community Development Director 
City of San Mateo 
330 W. 20th Ave., 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
RE: 
PA24-065 620 Full Application Submittal - 668 E. 3rd Ave.  
 
Dear Mr. Dahl, 
 
Prometheus Real Estate Group respectfully and formally submits this Project Description Letter and 
associated materials for the full development application associated with the Project proposal located 
at 668 E. 3rd Avenue - PA24-065 620. 
 
The Project’s pre-application was submitted pursuant to SB 330, which amended the Housing 
Accountability Act (Gov. Code § 65889.5), the Permit Streamlining Act (Gov. Code § 65920 et seq.), and 
created the Housing Crisis Act of 2019 (Gov. Code § 66300).  This full application is timely submitted to 
preserve the vesting secured by the pre-application. 
 
The Project application is consistent with the guidelines of the adopted San Mateo General Plan 2040 in 
proposing a 128-unit residential development. It will allow an aging strip retail center and parking lot to 
convert to much needed market rate and affordable rental housing within walking distance to 
Downtown San Mateo and Caltrain and is consistent with the policies and guidelines of the San Mateo 
General Plan. 
 
We believe that this request is fully consistent with San Mateo’s vision and goals of providing housing 
opportunities in focused areas of San Mateo as guided by the recently adopted General Plan. This 0.64-
acre site is situated within the Mixed Use Medium II designation of the General Plan in downtown San 
Mateo.1 This proposal supports guiding language of the San Mateo General Plan to “Encourage new 
development to maximize the density and intensity specified in the Land Use Plan and to efficiently use 
land and infrastructure resources” and ”provide a range of housing types, sizes, and affordability levels in 
all San Mateo neighborhoods” (Policy LU 1.3).” Accompanying this Project Description Letter are the 
required Project plans and application documents. 
 
I. 
Project Description 
 
The Project will consist of eight stories of residential units comprised of studio, one-bedroom, two- 
bedroom, and three-bedroom units over an internal and underground parking garage, the entrance of 
which will be visually minimized per Policy CD 7.4. Amenity spaces on ground floor, second floor, and 
the 8th floor will provide gathering space for the residents.    
 
In keeping with Policy CD 7.3, the Project design enhances the neighborhood’s visual and architectural 
 
1 
The Project complies with the General Plan’s base density of 99 units per acre and therefore should be 
processed by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to Municipal Code section 27.06.020(h).

--- page 157 ---
character by providing high-quality materials and construction, open space, and resident amenities. 
The proposed 8 story, 128-unit residential building embodies a refined blend of Spanish Revival and 
Mediterranean architectural styles that are integral to both the Downtown specific plan area and the 
Vision of the Gateway specific plan area outlined in the Objective Design Standards. Furthermore, the 
proposed Project is designed in accordance the standards set forth by each of the specific plan areas 
which include but are not limited to façade modulation, window/balcony alignments, light colored 
stucco facades, weathered brick facades, varied roof lines, and simulated red tile roofs and parapets. 
Additionally, the objective design standards for both specific plan areas prescribe 13 architectural 
elements, 7 of which are to be included. The proposed Project implements multi-level roofs, 
asymmetrical massing, arches, ornamental details, multi pane windows, decorative tiles, ornamental 
details, and deep recessed openings at the ground story lobby. The proposed design is a modern 
interpretation on the Spanish Revival and Mediterranean styles, establishing a dialogue with the 
region’s architectural heritage and creating a vibrant community hub by blending contemporary living 
with cultural richness to foster engagement and enrich the urban landscape. 
 
II. 
Density Bonus Law 
 
The Project incorporates the use of the State Density Bonus Law (Gov. Code § 65915 [“DBL”]). The DBL 
has four distinct primary components: (1) Density Bonuses; (2) Incentives; (3) Development Standard 
Waivers; and (4) Parking Standard Waivers. Although interrelated, each component serves a different 
purpose and is governed by unique standards.  
A. 
Density Bonus 
 
Section 65915(b)(1) of the DBL provides that requests for a density bonus must be granted “when an 
applicant for a housing development seeks and agrees to construct a housing development” that meets 
one or more of the statute’s thresholds, including at least 5% of the units for very low income 
households. 
 
The Project is located within the Mixed Use Medium II land use district of the San Mateo General Plan, 
which allows a maximum of 99 du/ac, and which equates to a maximum residential density of 64 units 
on the Project site. The Project implements the DBL to include 15% Very Low Income units (10 Units) to 
receive a 50% density bonus (32 units), and further provides 15% Moderate units (10 Units) to receive an 
additional 50% density bonus (32 Units), which equates to a total unit count of 128 units. (Gov. Code § 
65915(f)(2).   
 
B. 
Incentives 
A local agency must grant an incentive request unless it can make a written finding, based on substantial 
evidence, that: (1) the incentive does not result in identifiable and actual cost reductions to provide for 
affordable housing costs; (2) the incentive would have a specific, adverse impact on the public health or 
safety, or upon an historical resource; or (3) would be contrary to state or federal law. (Gov. Code 
§ 65915(d)(1).) We submit that none of those findings can be made with regard to this Project. 
Recent case law confirms that an applicant is not required to establish that the requested incentive will 
result in cost reductions. In Schreiber v. City of Los Angeles (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 549, 555, the court 
explained that there is a presumption that an incentive will result in cost reductions and that an 
applicant “is not required to establish that cost reductions will result.” Instead, a city must approve the 
incentive request unless it makes one of the written findings set forth in Section 65915(d)(1) above.

--- page 158 ---
(Ibid.) “By requiring the city to grant incentives unless it makes particular findings, the statute places the 
burden of proof on the city to overcome the presumption that incentives will result in cost reductions.” 
(Id. at 556.) Because of this presumption, a city is “not required to make an affirmative finding that the 
incentives would result in cost reductions, or to cite evidence to establish a fact presumed to be true.” 
(Id. at 560.) 
 
The number of incentives is derived from the amount of affordable units that are provided. In this case, 
by providing at least 15% of the units for VLI households, the Project applicant may receive three 
incentives. (§ 65915(d)(2)(C).) This Project Application does not identify the use of any Incentives at 
this time.   
However, we reserve our right to identify and seek the three incentives available in response to feedback 
from City staff during the entitlement process. 
 
C. 
Development Standard Waivers 
 
In addition to, and separate from, requests for incentives, a DBL applicant may request a waiver or 
reduction of development standards that would have the effect of physically precluding the construction 
of the Project proposed by the developer. (Gov. Code § 65915(e)(1).) The definition of a “development 
standard” includes a site or construction condition, including, without limitation, local height, setback, 
floor area ratio, onsite open space, and parking area ratio requirements that would otherwise apply to 
residential development pursuant to ordinances, general plan elements, specific plans, charters, or 
other local condition, law, policy, resolution, or regulation. (Gov. Code § 65915(o)(1).) A request for a 
development standard waiver neither reduces nor increases the number of incentives to which the 
developer is otherwise entitled. (Gov. Code § 65915(e)(2).) Furthermore, there is no limit on the 
number of waivers that may be issued. 
As with incentives, recent case law has clarified the legal principles regarding waivers. The Schreiber 
case confirms that a city may refuse a request to waive or reduce development standards only if it 
makes written findings that the waiver or reduction would have a specific adverse impact on the public 
health or safety. (Id. at 556; Gov. Code § 65915(e)(1).) In addition, another new case upholding a city’s 
approval of a DBL Project confirmed that waivers are based on the Project as proposed by the 
developer: “even if we assume the Project as designed is inconsistent with some of the City’s design 
standards, the Density Bonus Law would preclude the City from applying those standards to deny this 
Project.” (Bankers Hill 150 v. City of San Diego (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 755, 775.) Therefore, a local agency 
may not respond to a waiver request that a Project could be redesigned to avoid the need for a waiver. 
(Id. at 774-775 [rejecting argument that the Project “could have been built more horizontally” to comply 
with design standards.”].)  In addition, HCD has notified various local agencies that they cannot require a 
qualifying DBL Project to be redesigned in order to avoid the need for a waiver.  Last year, HCD advised 
the City of Oceanside as follows: “HCD reminds the City that appellate courts have established (and 
continue to affirm) that local agencies cannot lawfully redesign a qualifying SDBL Project on the theory 
that if the Project were configured differently, it would not need the requested incentives/concessions 
and waivers. (Wollmer v. City of Berkeley (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1329, 1346–1347.)  The City must 
consider the Project as proposed, inclusive of any requested concessions or waivers.”2   
 
At this point, we identify the following waivers or reductions to the development standards identified 
below (As identified on page G002 of the Plan Set and below): 
 
2 
HCD Letter of Technical Assistance to City of Oceanside dated January 10, 2023.

--- page 159 ---
• 
Building Height (GP Mixed Use Medium II – 4-6 Stories) 
o The Project proposes an 8-story building 
o The development standard referenced would physically preclude development of the 
Project if the waiver was not provided 
o See Page G010 of the Project Plans 
 
• 
Blank Walls (Objective Design Standards, Section 4.1.1, limited to 20’) 
o The rear façade requires a blank wall in order to contain the internal parking garage and 
required space for utilities. 
o The development standard referenced would physically preclude 
development of the Project if the waiver was not provided. 
o See Page G010 of the Project Plans 
 
• 
Setbacks (Objective Design Standards, Section 7.7.1.A.2 & 7.7.1.A.3) 
o The development standard referenced would physically preclude 
development of the Project if the waiver was not provided. 
o See Page G010 of the Project Plans 
 
• 
Stepbacks (Objective Design Standards, Section 7.7.1.B.1 & 7.7.1.B.2)The 
development standard referenced would physically preclude development of the 
Project if the waiver was not provided. 
o See Page G010 of the Project Plans 
 
• 
4.4.1 Residential Entries (Objective Design Standards, 7.7.3.2.B & 7.7.3.3.A) 
o The development standard referenced would physically preclude 
development of the Project if the waiver was not provided. 
o See Page G010 of the Project Plans 
 
• 
4.2.1 Residential Entries (Objective Design Standards) – Entries located 18”-42” below or 
above grade: 
o The development standard referenced would physically preclude 
development of the Project if the waiver was not provided. 
D. 
Parking Standard Waivers and AB 2097 
 
Parking ratio reductions are separate from the incentives and waivers identified above. By providing 
more than 11% VLI units, the Project may request a cap of 0.5 spaces per unit because the Project is 
within a half mile of a major transit stop with unobstructed access. (Gov. Code § 65915(p)(2).) Please 
be advised that pursuant to the recent enactment of AB 2097, the City cannot impose any minimum 
parking requirements on the Project, which is located within one-half mile of public transit. (Gov. Code 
§ 65863.2.) The Project currently proposes 76 Parking spaces within the building.  
 
As a brief introduction to our firm, Prometheus owns and/or manages over 13,000 apartment homes on 
the west coast and is the largest private owner of apartments in the Bay Area. Prometheus is a long- 
term owner and operator, having built its first project in Sunnyvale back in 1968. Two of Prometheus’ 
most recent projects are in the City of San Mateo, 303 Baldwin (the former Trags site and 1st and B). 
Prometheus Real Estate Group is a local firm with our headquarters in Downtown San Mateo. 
We appreciate your consideration of this request and look forward to working with you and the City on

--- page 160 ---
this proposed Project. Please contact me or Jonathan Stone at jstone@prometheusreg.com 
(650.931.3448) should you have any questions regarding our proposed application or our firm. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Don Peterson 
Senior Vice President 
Prometheus Real Estate Group 
1 North B Street, Suite 4000 
San Mateo, CA 94401 
(650) 931-3448 
 
CC: 
Jonathan Stone

--- page 161 ---
Memorandum 
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
www.allenmatkins.com 
 
 
Los Angeles | Orange County | San Diego | Century City | San Francisco | New York 
Three Embarcadero Center, 12th Floor | San Francisco, CA 94111-4074 | Telephone: 415.837.1515 | Facsimile: 415.837.1516 
Allen Matkins 
Confidential:  Attorney-Client Privileged 
Communication and Attorney Work Product 
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date 
October 9, 2025 
Telephone: 415.273.7463 
E-mail: dblackwell@allenmatkins.com 
File Number: 372819.00029/4912-3999-1130.5 
 
Subject: 
Applicability of AB 130 CEQA Exemption to the Gateway/668 E. 3rd Ave., San 
Mateo Project 
On June 30, 2025, a new statutory CEQA exemption for multifamily housing development 
projects was enacted as part of Assembly Bill 130 (“AB 130”) and became effective immediately. 
(See Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66.) The new AB 130 statutory CEQA exemption is similar to the 
existing categorical Class 32 exemption under the CEQA Guidelines, except that AB 130: 1) 
accommodates larger residential projects; 2) reduces legal risks by limiting opportunity for third party 
challenges (no “unusual circumstances” challenges are permitted); and 3) creates a strict project 
approval timeline starting with application completeness. 
This memorandum reviews the application materials for the Gateway Project (“Project”) 
proposed at 668 E. 3rd Ave., San Mateo, California (“Property”) to determine the applicability of the 
new AB 130 CEQA exemption to the Project. Additionally, this memorandum briefly outlines how 
the streamlined approval timeline will impact the Project. We note that unlike the Class 32 
Exemption, an analysis of potential impacts related to traffic, noise, air quality, and water quality will 
not be required to support the exemption. Instead, the project site must meet all of the SB 35 siting 
criteria (see below). Therefore, qualifying housing development projects should be processed much 
more quickly since technical studies should not be required, with the possible exception of a desktop 
biological resources survey.  
 As we explain below, the Project qualifies for the AB 130 CEQA exemption. We recommend 
that this memorandum be shared with the City of San Mateo (“City”) before the Project application is 
deemed complete (or Prometheus notifies the City that it qualifies for AB 130) so that the City will 
be in a position to timely initiate the mandatory tribal consultation process, discussed in Section II 
below.

--- page 162 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  October 9, 2025 
Page 2 
 
 
4912-3999-1130.5/  
372819-00029/10-9-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
 
I. 
NEW CEQA EXEMPTION ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS 
To qualify for the AB 130 CEQA exemption, the project must satisfy specific site and project 
requirements. Unlike other housing streamlining laws enacted in recent years, AB 130 does not 
contain any affordability requirements, and labor requirements are limited to only a narrow class of 
projects, none of which fit the description for the Project. As described below, the Project fits each of 
the AB 130 qualifying criteria. 
a. Housing project. The project must be a housing development project, which is 
defined to include: (1) projects consisting of residential uses only; (2) mixed-use 
projects where at least two-thirds of the new or converted square footage is designated 
for residential use; (3) mixed-use projects with greater than 500 units where at least 
half of the new or converted square footage is designated for residential use and other 
specific requirements are met; (4) transitional housing or supportive housing; and (5) 
farmworker housing. (Gov. Code §§ 65589.5(h)(2), 65905.5(b); Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(a).)  
The Project meets this requirement because, as described in the Project application, it 
will be developed with 100% residential uses. 
b. Acreage. The project site must be 20 acres or less, except Builder’s Remedy project 
sites must be 5 acres or less. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(1).) 
The Project meets this requirement because it is not a Builder’s Remedy project and 
the Property is 0.64 acres. 
c. Urban area. The project site must be within the boundaries of an incorporated 
municipality or in an urban area, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau. (Pub. Res. 
Code § 21080.66(a)(2).) 
The Project meets this requirement because it is within the City of San Mateo, an 
incorporated municipality. 
d. Infill location. The project site must be an urban infill site, meaning that: (i) the site 
was previously developed with an urban use; (ii) at least 75% of the perimeter of the 
site adjoins parcels that are developed with urban uses; (iii) at least 75% of the area 
within a one-quarter mile radius of the site is developed with urban uses; or (iv) for 
sites with four sides, at least three sides are developed with urban uses and at least

--- page 163 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  October 9, 2025 
Page 3 
 
 
4912-3999-1130.5/  
372819-00029/10-9-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
two-thirds of the perimeter of the site adjoins parcels that are developed with urban 
uses. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(3).) 
The Project meets this requirement because the Property is currently developed with a 
retail center, which qualifies as an “urban use.” The Property also qualifies under the 
other definitions of urban infill site because it is surrounded on at least 75% of the 
perimeter, or three of four sides, by urban uses. 
e. Environmental siting criteria. The project must meet environmental siting criteria 
set forth in SB 35/423. To qualify, a site must not be located in any of the following: 
1) certain areas of the coastal zone; 2) prime farmland, farmland of statewide 
importance, or land designated for agricultural protection or preservation; 3) wetlands; 
4) a very high fire hazard severity zone (unless certain mitigation measures adopted); 
5) a hazardous waste site; 6) a delineated earthquake fault zone; 7) a 100-year flood 
hazard area or regulatory floodway; 8) lands identified for conservation or under a 
conservation easement; or 9) habitat for protected species. (Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(a)(6); Gov. Code § 65913.4(a)(6).) 
The Project meets this requirement because the Property does not fall within any of 
the prohibited categories. Specifically: 
i. The Property is not within the coastal zone; 
ii. The Property is not on land used or designated for agriculture; 
iii. The Property is not on a wetland; 
iv. The Property is not within a very high fire hazard severity zone, per our review 
of the Office of the State Fire Marshal’s Fire Hazard Severity Zone maps; 
v. The Property is not on a hazardous waste site, per our review of the Cortese 
List of hazardous waste sites; 
vi. The Property is not within a delineated earthquake fault zone, per our review 
of the California Department of Conservation’s Earthquake Hazards Zone 
Application; 
vii. The Property is not within a 100-year flood hazard area nor a regulatory 
floodway, per our review of FEMA’s National Flood Hazard Layer Viewer;

--- page 164 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  October 9, 2025 
Page 4 
 
 
4912-3999-1130.5/  
372819-00029/10-9-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
viii. The Property is not on lands identified for conservation or subject to a 
conservation easement; 
ix. The Property is not habitat for protected species. 
f. Land use regulations. The project must be consistent with the applicable general plan 
and zoning ordinance, as well as any applicable local coastal program. If the general 
plan and zoning ordinance are inconsistent, the project need only be consistent with 
one. Use of any State Density Bonus Law density bonus, incentive or concession, 
waiver, or reduced parking ratio shall not be grounds to determine the project is 
inconsistent with the zoning, general plan, or local coastal program. The housing 
development shall be deemed consistent if there is substantial evidence that would 
allow a reasonable person to conclude as such. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(4).) 
The Project meets this requirement because it is consistent with the land use 
designations for the Property. The Property is designated “Mixed Use Medium II” in 
the City’s 2040 General Plan and is within the Central Business Support (“CBD-S”) 
zoning district. The Mixed Use Medium II designation permits a mix of uses, including 
residential, with a maximum density range of 51 - 99 dwelling units per acre. The 
CBD-S zoning district permits residential uses subject to R3 or R4 district minimum 
development standards and CBD residential development standards. The CBD-S 
district permits a maximum of 50 dwelling units per acre. This is inconsistent with the 
minimum density of the Mixed Use Medium II general plan designation. Under AB 
130, if the general plan and zoning are inconsistent, then the project shall be deemed 
consistent with both if it is consistent with one. 
Per the Project application, the residential density will be 99 dwelling units per acre 
which is within the General Plan range for the Property. Because the Project is 
consistent with the General Plan, it is deemed consistent with the applicable zoning 
district. Further, because the Project qualifies for a density bonus, any development 
standards that would preclude development of the Project as designed, such as the R3, 
R4, or CBD residential development standards, will be waived or reduced. 
g. Minimum density. The proposed residential density must be at least 50% of the 
minimum residential density deemed appropriate to accommodate housing for the 
jurisdiction. Depending on the type of jurisdiction (nonmetropolitan, suburban, or 
metropolitan), the minimum density ranges from 5 to 15 units per acre. (Gov. Code § 
65583.2(c)(3)(B); Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(5).)

--- page 165 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  October 9, 2025 
Page 5 
 
 
4912-3999-1130.5/  
372819-00029/10-9-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
The Project meets this requirement because, with a proposed density of 99 dwelling 
units per acre, it has a greater density than the highest statutory minimum density of 
15 units per acre. 
h. Historic structures. The project does not require the demolition of a historic structure 
that was placed on a national, state, or local historic register before the date a 
preliminary application (as defined) was submitted. (Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(a)(7).) 
The Project meets this requirement because none of the existing structures to be 
demolished are on a national, state, or local historic register. 
i. Freeway proximity. For any housing within 500 feet of a freeway, the building: (i) 
must have a centralized heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning system and the 
outdoor intakes for that system cannot face the freeway; (ii) must provide air filtration 
media for outside and return air that provide a minimum efficiency reporting value of 
16, which must be replaced as specified; and (iii) must not have any balconies facing 
the freeway. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(c)(2).) 
The project is not within 500 feet of a freeway.  
j. Tribal notice. The City must notify all California Native American tribes that are 
traditionally and culturally affiliated with the project site, and consult with any tribe 
that elects to be involved, as specified in the statute. Related conditions of project 
approval may be imposed. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(b).) 
During preparation of the EIR for the 2040 General Plan, the City identified the 
following tribes as potentially having local knowledge: 1) Amah Mutsun Tribal Band 
of Mission San Juan Bautista; 2) Costanoan Rumsen Carmel Tribe; 3) Indian Canyon 
Mutsun Band of Costanoan; 4) Muwekma Ohlone Indian Tribe of the SF Bay Area; 5) 
The Ohlone Indian Tribe; and 6) Wuksache Indian Tribe/Eshom Valley Band. Of 
these, only the Canyon Mutsun Band of Costanoan Ohlohne People responded. 
Therefore, it is possible that this tribe will respond to a consultation request for the 
Project. 
k. Phase I environmental site assessment. A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment 
(“ESA”) must be performed for the project site, and if a recognized environmental 
condition is found, certain steps must be taken to ensure there is no threat to human 
health or safety, as specified in the statute. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(c)(1).)

--- page 166 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  October 9, 2025 
Page 6 
 
 
4912-3999-1130.5/  
372819-00029/10-9-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
A Phase I ESA for the Property was prepared for Prometheus Real Estate Group on 
June 6, 2025. The report identified three Recognized Environmental Conditions 
(“RECs”): 1) the presence of fuel-related impacts in sub-surface media due to 
upgradient gasoline/service stations (one of which received regulatory closure in 
2015, the other in 2021); 2) a vapor encroachment condition from offsite sources of 
TPHg and benzene; and 3) the presence of lead in shallow soil. The Phase I did not 
identify any Controlled Recognized Environmental Conditions (“CRECs”), Historical 
Recognized Environmental Conditions (“HRECs”), Business Environmental Risks 
(“BERs”), de minimis conditions, or significant data gaps.  
Significant fuel-related impacts were not identified in shallow soil and were only 
present in soil collected 20 feet below ground surface or deeper. The Phase I also 
noted that oxygen levels in the soil have created a bioattenuation zone beneath the 
property and that vapor mitigation for the current commercial land use is not 
required. The report stated that the lead levels identified at the site were 
“commonplace” in the region, were not characterized as a California or Federal 
Hazardous Waste, and did not extent further down than five feet. 
Due to the identified RECs, Prometheus will prepare a Preliminary Endangerment 
Assessment, as defined in Health & Safety Code Section 78095, to determine if a 
hazardous substance has been released on the site and what the potential exposure is 
for future occupants. A Preliminary Endangerment Assessment is currently being 
prepared by Citadel EHS, and no concerns have been identified to date.  Regardless, 
this document will be reviewed by the San Mateo County Groundwater Protection 
Program, which will determine whether significant mitigation or ongoing 
management will be required by the County. Upon receipt of the County’s approval, 
the City may issue a certificate of occupancy.  
Note that the presence of RECs on the Property in no way affects the applicability or 
timing of the AB 130 CEQA exemption. The only result is an obligation for 
Prometheus to address the RECs prior to receipt of a certificate of occupancy. 
l. Transient lodging. For new projects “deemed complete” on or after January 1, 2025, 
no portion of the project may be designated for use as transient lodging (as defined). 
“Deemed complete” means that an SB 330 preliminary application or a complete 
application (pursuant to Gov. Code § 65943) has been submitted for the project. (Pub. 
Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(8).) 
The Project meets this requirement because none of the proposed components will be 
used for transient lodging.

--- page 167 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  October 9, 2025 
Page 7 
 
 
4912-3999-1130.5/  
372819-00029/10-9-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
m. Labor requirements. Any building over 85 feet in height (from grade) is subject to 
the SB 35 labor standards, including prevailing wage requirements, recordkeeping 
requirements, additional labor standards for developments over 50 units, and 
additional skilled and trained workforce requirements. (Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(d)(2); see Gov. Code § 65913.4(a)(8).) All construction workers employed 
in the execution of public or private housing development projects where 100% of 
units will be dedicated to lower income households shall be paid prevailing wages; 
registered apprentices may be paid the applicable apprentice prevailing rate. (Pub. 
Res. Code § 21080.66(d)(1).) 
The Project will not be required to comply with the above labor provisions because it 
will not be over 85 feet in height, nor will 100% of the units be dedicated to lower 
income households. 
II. 
NEW PROJECT APPROVAL TIMELINE 
AB 130 also amended the Permit Streamlining Act (“PSA”) to create a new approval timeline 
for agencies with approval authority over projects that qualify for the AB 130 CEQA exemption. 
(Gov. Code § 65950(a)(7).) The amended PSA states that an agency must approve or disapprove the 
project “[t]hirty days from the conclusion of [the tribal consultation process]” for projects invoking 
the new CEQA exemption. (Id.)  
Additionally, the tribal consultation process itself contains statutory approval timelines that, 
when combined with the new PSA provisions, establish a single approval timeline for an AB 130 
project starting with application completeness, or for applications already deemed complete, when 
the applicant notifies the City that the project qualifies for AB 130. Because the tribal consultation 
process can conclude in multiple ways, the exact timing cannot be determined from the outset. At a 
minimum, if no tribes elect to participate in the consultation, a project must be approved no later than 
104 days from the date of application completeness/AB 130 notification. If a tribe elects to 
participate in the consultation, a project must be approved no later than 178 days from the date of 
application completeness/AB 130 notification, but may be approved earlier.  
At this time, we understand the Project’s application is under review with the City Planning 
Department. Under AB 130, the approval timeline begins either when the application is deemed 
complete, or for projects with already completed applications, when the applicant notifies the City 
that the project qualifies for AB 130. (Gov. Code § 21080.66(b)(1)(A)(i)-(ii); § 65589.5(h)(5).) For 
the purposes of AB 130, “deemed complete” means the applicant has submitted an SB 330 
preliminary application. (Id.) Therefore, if a preliminary application was previously submitted for the 
Project, Prometheus can start the approval timeline immediately by notifying the City that the Project 
qualifies for AB 130. Note that the City only has 14 days from the date of application

--- page 168 ---
To: Prometheus Real Estate Group 
From: David H. Blackwell 
Date:  October 9, 2025 
Page 8 
 
 
4912-3999-1130.5/  
372819-00029/10-9-25/dhb/dhb 
 
 
completeness/AB 130 notification to provide formal notification to tribes. Therefore, we recommend 
informing the City as soon as possible that the Project will utilize the AB 130 CEQA exemption to 
ensure that there are no delays once the application is deemed complete or Prometheus makes an AB 
130 notification. As stated above, at least one tribe participated in the preparation of the 2024 General 
Plan, so it is possible that the Project may go through this consultation process.

--- page 169 ---
668 E 3rd Ave "Gateway“
Eight Story Multifamily Residential Building
PA-2025-025
Planning Commission Public Hearing
February 10, 2026
Liz Gagliardi, Associate Planner
Community Development Department

--- page 170 ---
PRESENTATION OVERVIEW
• PROJECT BACKGROUND
• Project History
• Location
• Project Description
• Entitlements
• CODE & POLICY REVIEW
• General Plan, Zoning Code & Local Plans
• State Law
• Affordable Housing
• Design Review
• Impact Fees
• Environmental Review
• PUBLIC NOTICE
• STAFF RECOMMENDATION

--- page 171 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
• Pre-Application
• SB 330 Preliminary Application filed 
on November 13, 2024
• Neighborhood Informational 
Meeting held on March 19, 2025
• Formal Planning Application
• Filed on April 2, 2025
• Refined project design 
• Environmental Review – Exempt 
from CEQA under AB130
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements

--- page 172 ---
4
Project Site
Caltrain rail 
corridor
Downtown Caltrain Station

--- page 173 ---
5
Existing Office (to remain on neighboring parcel)
Existing Gas Station (to remain on neighboring parcel)
Existing Commercial – to be demolished on project site
Block 21

--- page 174 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Project Site
Metropolitan 
Block 21 
Block 20 
222 S. Fremont
Downtown 
San Mateo
Downtown 
Caltrain Station
Kiku Crossing
Bespoke
Draeger’s
Kiku Garage
Project Site – 668 E 3rd Avenue 
0.64 Acres

--- page 175 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
• Approx. 169,750 sq.ft. building – residential use
• 128 residential rental units
•
20 affordable units (10 for very-low income, 10 for moderate income)
• 8 stories (83’-9” to top plate, 88’-9” to parapet)
• 73 covered parking stalls (includes 1 level below grade parking 
garage). Vehicle access off of S. Eldorado St.
• Residential amenities – fitness room, amenity deck on 3rd floor, 
common room & amenity deck/BBQ area on 8th floor
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements

--- page 176 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
Unit Mix
128 total units (108 market rate + 20 below market rate)
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
Unit Type
BMR Units 
(VLI)
BMR Units 
(Moderate)
Market 
Rate Units
Total Units
Studio
0
1
0
1
Urban 1-
bed
4
2
46
52
1-bed
3
4
30
37
2-bed
2
3
28
33
3-bed
1
0
4
5
Total Units
10
10
108
128

--- page 177 ---
1S OGVYOCTS S

i
5
5

3RD AVENUE

wasnaunne ats

SSS SSA GSI A
SAC acAearariee earns
Sialeeaislee. wnaeenan eases

TER RAT ONOSEIE

1S SYVMV130 S

ee


--- page 178 ---
PROJECT BACKGROUND
• Site Plan & Architectural Review (SPAR)
• New multifamily residential building. 
• Requires City Council approval (building over 55 feet in 
height) 
• Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)
• Removal of 9 total trees, including 4 protected trees
• Replacement planting (16 trees) and landscape unit in-
lieu fees
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements

--- page 179 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
• General Plan Land Use – Mixed Use Medium II
General Plan, Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
Mixed Use Medium II
Maximum
Proposed
Density (DU/acre)
99 (64 units)
200 (128 units)
Height
6 stories
8 stories

--- page 180 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
• Zoning: CBD/S (Central Business District Support)
• Downtown Area Plan: Gateway Sub-Area
General Plan, Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
Other Standards 
(Zoning & Local Plans)
Minimum Required
Proposed
Setbacks & Stepbacks
•
Front
•
Left Side
•
Right Side
•
Rear
Front setback: 15’-20’ 
•
Front Stepback: +8’ for 
portion of building over 
30’ 
Left Side: 15’-20’ Right 
Side: 15’-20’ 
•
Side Stepbacks: +8’ for 
portion of building over 
25’
Rear: -
Front: 3.1’ 
Left Side: 9’ 
Right Side: 2.5’ 
Rear: 2.4’ 
Parking
None Required 
(AB2097)
73 Stalls
Bicycle Parking 
139 (Long Term)
9 (Short Term)
140 (Long Term)
10 (Short Term)
Loading
1
1

--- page 181 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
• State Density Bonus Law
• “Stacked” Density Bonus
•
50% Density Increase for providing 15% of units at BMR - Very 
Low Income
•
50 % Density Increase for providing 15% of units at BMR - 
Moderate Income 
• Up to 3 Concessions
• Unlimited Waivers
• Proposed Project
• 100% Density Increase (128 Units)
•
15% of base density (10 Units) for Very Low Income
•
15% of base density (10 Units) for Moderate Income
• No Concessions requested
• Waivers from Development Standards
•
Reduced setbacks & stepbacks
•
Increased building height
•
Loading zone dimensions & location
•
Objective Design Standards
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 182 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
Density Bonus Waivers
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
Standard
Loading Berth – SMMC Section 27.64.390
Turning Radii – SMMC Section 27.64.130
Building Height – General Plan 2040 Mixed Use Medium II
Blank Walls – ODS 4.1.1
Massing Breaks – ODS 4.4.7.A.3.b
Façade Design – ODS 7.1.1.B
Setbacks – ODS 7.7.1.A.2 & .3
Stepbacks – ODS 7.7.1.B.1 & .2
Residential Entries – ODS 7.7.3.A.1 & 7.7.3.A.3.b
Ground Floor Residential Entries – ODS 4.2.1
Architectural Style & Materials – ODS 7.7.1.D

--- page 183 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
• Housing Crisis Act (Senate Bill 330)
• Preliminary Application- November 13, 2024
• Project vesting date – freezes development standards and fee 
structure
• Housing Accountability Act (HAA)
• Limits a local agency’s ability to deny, reduce the density of, or 
render housing development projects infeasible if objective 
standards are met
• Assembly Bill (AB) 130
• New California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) exemption for 
housing development projects 
• Expedited review process
• Assembly Bill (AB) 2097
• Removes minimum parking requirements for projects within one-
half mile from major public transit stop

--- page 184 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
City’s Below Market Rate(BMR)  
Inclusionary Program 
• Projects with 11 or more rental units, must 
provide at least:
• 15% of the units for Lower-Income Households; or
• 10% of the units for Very Low-Income Households
• This project exceeds local BMR requirements by 
providing:
• 15% of the units for Very Low-Income Households; and
• 15% of the units for Moderate-Income Households. 
• The units proposed at the Very Low-Income level 
must also meet local requirements for unit size, 
type, and design. 
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 185 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 186 ---
View of “Townhome Style” Units from East 3rd Avenue

--- page 187 ---
Detailed View of “Townhome Style” Units from East 3rd Avenue

--- page 188 ---
View of Lobby Entrance from corner of East 3rd Avenue & South Delaware St.

--- page 189 ---
O
Lu
E
<
=
Zz
<{
Y)
uw
O
>
La
O

View from East 3' Avenue



--- page 190 ---
View from South Delaware St.

O
Lu
E
<
=
Zz
<{
Y)
uw
O
>
La
O



--- page 191 ---
View from corner of East 3rd Avenue & South Eldorado St.

--- page 192 ---
TO, RODE
1

i

Bwv1d 30VHO MOM LHOH

View from South Eldorado St.

O
Lu
-
<
2D
Zz
<x
WY
LL
O
>
rE
O



--- page 193 ---
O
Lu
-
<
2D
Zz
<x
WY
LL
O
>
rE
O

Rear (Southeast) Elevation



--- page 194 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 195 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
Fee
Estimate
Childcare Development Fee
$432,000
Park Impact Fee
$2.37 million
Wastewater Capacity Charge
$920,000
School Impact Fees
$4.94 per square foot
Landscape Unit In-Lieu Fee
$11,750
Public Art In-Lieu Fee
1.19% of building valuation
Transportation Improvement 
Fee
$479,000

--- page 196 ---
CODE AND POLICY 
REVIEW
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
• Exempt from CEQA pursuant to Public 
Resources Code Section 21080.66 (AB 130)
• Effective date: June 20, 2025
• Requires expedited project review & decision 
timeline
• Tribal Consultation requirements 
General Plan and Zoning Code & 
Local Plans
State Law
Affordable Housing
Design Review
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 197 ---
PUBLIC NOTICE
• Neighborhood Meeting: March 19, 2025
• 40 attendees
• Comments related to parking, traffic & construction impacts, loss of existing 
business/retail.
• Public Noticing: 10 days in advance of hearing (January 30, 2026)

--- page 198 ---
RECOMMENDED MODIFICATIONS TO 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
48(d) CURB AND GUTTER – The applicant shall replace to existing City standards all 
curb and gutter surrounding fronting the project site and as required for restoration 
purposes. New curb and gutter shall be constructed per current City Standard, or as 
otherwise shown on the approved plan set.

--- page 199 ---
RECOMMENDED MODIFICATIONS TO 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
48(m) TRAFFIC SIGNAL INFRASTRUCTURE – The applicant shall be responsible for updating the 
traffic signal at the easterly corner of the Delaware Street & 3rd Avenue intersection to the latest 
standards and requirements. The applicant shall submit all necessary traffic signal design plans, 
including pole and conductor schedules where necessary, to the Director of Public Works or 
designee for review and approval as part of the Building Permit for the Superstructure. The plans 
shall show all traffic signal equipment upgrades for the traffic signal at the easterly corner of the 
Delaware Street & 3rd Avenue intersection to comply with latest California Manual on Uniform 
Traffic Control Devices (CA MUTCD), Caltrans, and City standards requirements.  Improvements 
shall include, but are not limited to accessible pedestrian signals (APS) and pushbuttons (PPB), 
emergency vehicle preemption signal equipment, video detection equipment, 12” LED signal 
diodes, intersection PTZ camera, signal head backplates, internally illuminated street name signs, 
traffic signal interconnect or fiber optic communications. APS upgrades shall be installed on all 
corners of the Delaware Street & 3rd Avenue intersection.

--- page 200 ---
RECOMMENDED MODIFICATIONS TO 
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
48(n) STREET LIGHT(S) AND INFRASTRUCTURE – The applicant shall furnish and install 
necessary infrastructure in accordance with a  the photometric analysis prepared as part 
of the approved planning application superstructure permit. The streetlight and 
electrical plans shall show all electrical conduits, pull boxes, service connections, fuse 
holders, bus fuses and all other electrical components necessary to construct the 
improvements. The plans shall be submitted as part of the Building Permit for the 
Superstructure.
If any changes to streetlight locations or quantities are proposed during the 
building permit phase, a new photometric analysis shall be prepared by the 
applicant for review and approval by the Director of Public Works or 
designee and the lighting shall be furnished and installed in accordance with 
the new photometric analysis as approved.

--- page 201 ---
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Recommend that the City Council adopt a resolution to approve 
the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), and Site 
Development Planning Application (SDPA) for the construction of a 
new multi-family residential building with 128 units and associated 
site improvements at 668 East 3rd Avenue, and find that the 
Project is Statutorily Exempt from the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) pursuant to Assembly Bill 130, based on the 
findings for approval and subject to the conditions of approval, 
with the recommended modifications.

--- page 202 ---
Thank You
Liz Gagliardi, Associate Planner
Community Development Department
egagliardi@cityofsanmateo.org

--- page 203 ---
Backup Slides



--- page 204 ---
y | |
Ground Floor

CITY OF



--- page 205 ---
SAN MATEO,
California
668 E. 3RD AVE.
FEBRUARY 10, 2026
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
1
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 206 ---
METROPOLITAN
715 N. SAN MATEO DRIVE
B STREET SOUTH
BRICKLINE
BESPOKE
1ST AND B
2
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
PROMETHEUS - SAN MATEO

--- page 207 ---
•	 Residential & Mixed-uses per 2040 General Plan
•	 Mixed-Use Medium II
PROJECT SITE
Source: City of San Mateo, 2022; ESRI, 2022; PlaceWorks, 2025.
Adopted: March 18, 2024
Last Amended: March 17, 2025
3
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
2040 GENERAL PLAN

--- page 208 ---
•	 Specific Plan Area Standards per city’s 
Objective Design Standards: 
- 7.1 Downtown Plan Area 
- 7.7 Vision of the Gateway
•	 New development within each plan area 
is required to implement a Mediterranean 
architectural style
•	 Proposed plan is to redevelop an aging 
retail center & parking lot to enhance 
surrounding neighborhood. 
•	 Site in close proximity to historic 
downtown and Caltrain
•	 Direct access to major transportation routes
Project Site
Vision of the Gateway Specific Plan Area
Downtown Specific Plan Area
Historic Downtown
Prometheus Properties
KEY
CALTRAIN
E 4TH AVE
3RD AVE
S DELAWARE ST
EL CAMINO REAL
SAN MATEO CREEK
HISTORIC 
DOWNTOWN
HWY 101
VISION OF 
THE GATEWAY
4
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
SITE CONTEXT + SPECIFIC PLAN AREAS

--- page 209 ---
San Mateo’s Multifamily 
Objective Design Standards:
•	 Preserve and enhance 
the City’s architectural 
character
•	 Ensure high-quality, 
well-designed new 
development
Project Overview
•	  8-story multifamily 
building
•	 Internal parking garage
•	 Corner plaza at 3rd Street 
& Delaware main entry
5
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
ARCHITECTURAL PROPOSAL

--- page 210 ---
Architectural Approach
•	 Contemporary 
Mediterranean 
interpretation of Spanish 
Revival architecture [7.1.2]
•	 Light-colored stucco 
façades, low-pitched 
roofs/sloped parapets, and 
red tile roofing reinforce 
region’s heritage [7.1.2]
Design Alignment with 
City Guidelines
•	 High-quality materials 
and construction that 
enhanced neighborhood 
character [4.7]
•	 Integrated open space 
improving pedestrian 
experience [7.1.3]
6
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
ARCHITECTURAL CONCEPT

--- page 211 ---
•	 7 of 13 Spanish 
Revival architectural 
elements are 
required in the ODS 
specific plans. [7.1.2, 
7.7.2]
•	 The architecture  
incorporates 8 of the 
elements into the 
design.
	
1. Multi-level roofs
	
2. Asymmetrical massing
	
3. Arches
	
4. Ornamental details
	
5. Spiral columns
	
6. Multi-pane windows
	
7. Window grilles
	
8. Elaborate chimney tops
	
9. Round or square towers
	
10. Decorative tiles
	
11. Decorative ironwork
	
12. Ornamental door/	
	
	
      window surrounds
	
13. Deep recessed openings
7
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
BUILDING DESIGN & ARCHITECTURE

--- page 212 ---
•	 Primary building entry 
and lobby are located on 
the active corner of 3rd & 
Delaware. [4.6]
•	 Publicly accessible open 
space is sited adjacent 
to the main entry, further 
activating the street 
corner [3.1, 3.3, 5.1, 7.1]
•	 Ground Story units with 
recessed entries, stoops, 
and landscape buffers 
located on 3rd Ave. [7.7]
8
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
SITE PLANNING & PROGRAM

--- page 213 ---
•	 Entry corner activated 
with colonnade of arches, 
decorative tiles, and lush 
plantings. [3.1, 4.6, 5.1]
•	 Fine detailing of 
the Mediterranean 
architectural elements 
enriches the facade and 
creates layering and 
depth [7.1.2, 7.7.2]
•	 Brick detailing at the base 
of the building grounds 
the overall massing and 
establishes a human-
scaled architecture [7.1.2, 
7.7.2]
9
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
BUILDING DESIGN & ARCHITECTURE

--- page 214 ---
•	 Deep, protected porches 
introduce shadow and 
depth, creating a more 
intimate street experience 
[7.1.2, 7.7.3]
•	 Canopies and recessed 
balconies articulate façades, 
minimizing vertical  
height while creating depth 
& interest [7.1.2, 7.7.1]
•	 Textured cornice and 
pergola at  
third-story step backs 
visually cap the residential 
volume, reinforcing a 
residential scale [7.1.2, 7.7.1]
•	 Rich landscaping softens 
the street edge, buffering 
ground-story units and 
enhancing the pedestrian 
realm [7.1.3, 7.7.3]
10
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
BUILDING DESIGN & ARCHITECTURE

--- page 215 ---
THANK YOU
11
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 216 ---
QUESTIONS
12
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 217 ---
A P P E N D I X
CONTENTS:
DESIGN PROCESS RENDERINGS
PLAN DRAWINGS
	
— SITE PLAN
	
— BUILDING
	
— LANDSCAPE
	
— CIVIL
	
— TRASH COLLECTION
ELEVATION DIAGRAM
JOINT POLE EXHIBIT
13
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 218 ---
DESIGN PROCESS
L A T E S T
E X P R E S S I O N
E A R L Y 
P H A S E
14
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 219 ---
DESIGN PROCESS
L A T E S T
E X P R E S S I O N
E A R L Y 
P H A S E
15
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 220 ---
L A T E S T
E X P R E S S I O N
E A R L Y 
P H A S E
DESIGN PROCESS
16
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 221 ---
DESIGN PROCESS
L A T E S T
E X P R E S S I O N
E A R L Y 
P H A S E
17
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 222 ---
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
DN
UP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
99.5'
99.22'
99.2'
PL: 207.86'
PL: 114.00'
PL: 113.82'
PL: 49.98'
PL: 100.00'
PL: 129.98'
99.25'
CBD/S ZONE
R5-D ZONE
EXISTING 3 STORY 
COMMERCIAL BUILDING
EXISTING 1 STORY 
3RD AVENUE
S ELDORADO ST
S DELAWARE ST
EXISTING 3 STORY 
COMMERCIAL BUILDING
PRIMARY BUILDING 
ENTRY
TRASH
(E) TRANSFORMER TO 
BE REMOVED
TRANSFORMER 
ACCESS
PARKING 
ENTRY
99.25'
LOADING / 
STAGING
TRANSFORMER 
ACCESS
SHORT TERM BIKE 
PARKING 
LOBBY
100.68'
99.16'
99.16'
100.5'
(+/-)
(+/-)
(+/-)
(+/-)
OVERHANGS/ 
PROJECTIONS ABOVE
OVERHANGS/ 
PROJECTIONS ABOVE
OVHG ABOVE
3' - 6 3/4"
OVHG ABOVE
3' - 1 1/2"
OVHG ABOVE
2' - 1 1/2"
OVHG ABOVE
1' - 4 1/2"
OVHG ABOVE
3' - 6 1/2"
8 STORY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING
GROUND STORY FOOTPRINT
OVHG ABOVE
2' - 11 1/2"
OVHG ABOVE
2' - 6"
MAX SETBACK
MIN SETBACK
MAX SETBACK
MIN SETBACK
MIN SETBACK
MAX SETBACK
14' - 5"
5' - 0"
6' - 0"
5' - 0"
5' - 0"
100.33'
100.33'
100.33'
100.33'
100.33'
99.2'
99.16'
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
45' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 7"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
35' - 6"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
59' - 0 1/2"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
3' - 0"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
1' - 11"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
2' - 5"
2' - 9"
3' - 1"
4"
2' - 5"
7"
24' - 1"
1' - 11"
9' - 1"
1' - 3"
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE
1' - 4"
PRELIMINARY LOCATION OF 
FREESTANDING PUBLIC ART 
PUBLIC EASEMENT 
[DIAGONAL HATCH]
PRIMARY BUILDING ENTRY
SECONDARY BUILDING ENTRY
PROPOSED PUBLIC ACCESS EASEMENT, 
SEE CIVIL FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE
SITE PLAN
18
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 223 ---
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
UP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
2
A201
PARKING SPACES 
43 STALLS
STAIR-01
ELEVATORS
STAIR-02
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
1' - 6"
9' - 0"
A
B
C
D
E
G
H
J
K
L
1
1
3
3
4
4
5
5
6
6
7
7
8
8
9
9
9.1
9.1
143' - 7"
2' - 11 1/2"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
21' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
143' - 7"
2' - 11 1/2"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
21' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
8' - 3"
10' - 2"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
55' - 6"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
4' - 0"
18' - 0"
94' - 8 1/2"
51' - 0 1/4"
7' - 3 1/4"
83' - 9"
20' - 5"
35' - 1 1/4"
MUDDY PAW
UP
10% SLOPE
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
24' - 0"
10' - 0"
8' - 6"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
12' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
8' - 3"
10' - 0"
10' - 6"
6' - 3"
26' - 3"
24' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
8' - 3"
10' - 0"
10' - 6"
42 BIKE
STALLS
10' - 0"
8' - 0"
9' - 0"
15' - 11"
1
A300
10% SLOPE
[16.5% EXTERIOR, 7.8 INTERIOR]
10' - 0"
LOBBY
BIKE ROOM
UTILITY
UTILITY
SHOP
PROPOSED SETBACK
6' - 9 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 11 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 6 1/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 5 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3 3/4"
P1 PLAN
19
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 224 ---
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 EVCS
DN
UP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
DN
UP
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
ELEVATORS
1,458 SF
LOBBY & LEASING
TRANSFORMER
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
2
A201
STAIR-02
UP
PARKING SPACES 
12 STALLS
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
BIKES
STAIR-01
CORRIDOR
9' - 0"
8' - 9"
4.8% SLOPE
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
J
K
J.1
1
1
2
3
3
4
4
5
5
6
6
7
7
7.1
7.1
8
8
9
9
9.1
9.1
A.1
TRASH
TRASH
147' - 5 1/4"
2' - 6 1/4"
1' - 4"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
1' - 0"
20' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
212' - 6"
144' - 11"
97' - 6"
115' - 0"
10' - 2"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
27' - 6"
1' - 10"
26' - 2"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
1' - 8"2' - 4"
1' - 4"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
1' - 0"
20' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
94' - 1"
50' - 10"
31' - 11 3/4"
114' - 1 1/2"
9' - 2"
1' - 0"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
1' - 8"
27' - 6"
CORRIDOR
18' - 0"
161 SF
ND OFFICE
222 SF
WORK ROOM
74 SF
PARCEL
182 SF
AMAZON
DOMESTIC WATER
292 SF
THE POST
REFRESH & RELAX
ELEC
ELEC
GENERATOR
UP
10% SLOPE
DN
10% SLOPE
1' - 0"
24' - 0"
1' - 0"
24' - 0"
9' - 7"
8' - 5"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
5' - 9 3/4"
9' - 0"
MECH
50 BIKE STALLS
R 14' - 7"
R 13' - 0"
R 39' - 7"
R 38' - 7"
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 0"
5"
1' - 0"
24' - 0"
1' - 0"
CORRIDOR
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL
ROOM
1
A300
10% SLOPE
[7.8% AT EXTERIOR BOUNDARY, 
16.5% AT INTERIOR BOUNDARY]
TRASH CHUTE LOCATION TO BE FINALIZED 
TO ELIMINATE CHUTE OFFSETS
PROPOSED SETBACK
9' - 0 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
2' - 9 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 3 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 11"
COIL-UP DOORS AT PARKING ENTRY WITH SECURED ACCESS. 
SEE A220 FOR GATE PRODUCT INFORMATION. 
2' - 10"
11' - 0"
2' - 0"
11' - 0"
3' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 9"
TRASH
3
A300
RESTROOM
6' - 4 13/64"
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
20
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 225 ---
DN
UP
EV - ADA VAN
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 EVCS
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
EV
LVL2 RECEPTACLE
TH - 2ND LEVEL
STAIR-02
1-BED
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
2
A201
ELEVATORS
TH - 2ND LEVEL
TH - 2ND LEVEL
TH - 2ND LEVEL
PARKING SPACES 
18  STALLS
OPEN TO BELOW
STAIR-01
URBAN
A
B
C
D
E
F
F.2
G
H
J
K
J.1
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
5
5
6
6
7
7
7.1
7.1
8
8
9
9
9.1
9.1
A.1
147' - 5 1/4"
2' - 6 1/4"
1' - 4"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
1' - 0"
20' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
144' - 11"
10' - 2"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
27' - 6"
1' - 10"
26' - 2"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
1' - 8"2' - 4"
1' - 4"
15' - 2"
26' - 10"
18' - 5"
31' - 4"
1' - 0"
20' - 6"
29' - 0"
1' - 4"
94' - 1"
50' - 10"
146' - 1 1/4"
9' - 2"
1' - 0"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
17' - 10"
9' - 8"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
1' - 8"
76' - 10"
124' - 2"
21' - 6"
BIKE ROOM
STUDY
CORRRIDOR
TRASH
PHONE
PHONE
PHONE
PHONE
SERENITY STUDIO
SPA LOUNGE
SAUNA
RESTROOM
GENERATOR
DN
10% SLOPE
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
8' - 6"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
10' - 9"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
9' - 0"
9' - 0"
10' - 0"
10' - 1 7/8"
10' - 0"
48 BIKE STALLS
UTILITY
1
A300
STUDIO
27' - 3 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
9' - 0 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
4 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
2' - 9 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 3 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
1' - 11"
10% SLOPE
[7.8% AT EXTERIOR BOUNDARY, 
16.5% AT INTERIOR BOUNDARY]
SECOND STORY PLAN
21
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 226 ---
DN
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
2
A201
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
684 SF
STRENGTH STUDIO
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
STAIR-02
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
533 SF
AMENITY DECK
B
C
D
E
F
F.2
G
H
J
J.1
A.2
E.1
1
1
4
4
5
5
6
6
7
7
8
8
3.2
3.2
6.3
6.3
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
144' - 1 1/4"
134' - 9"
1' - 0"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
20' - 8"
6' - 10"
11' - 1"
16' - 11"
28' - 0"
50' - 8"
42' - 10"
50' - 7 1/4"
6' - 8 1/4"
2' - 8"
9' - 8"
26' - 10"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
1' - 0"
31' - 6"
26' - 6"
17' - 10"
9' - 8"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 0"
28' - 10"
1' - 1"
9' - 4 1/4"
84' - 11"
1' - 4" 4' - 11"
15' - 8"
9' - 5"
18' - 5"
26' - 10"
9' - 8"
2' - 8"
5.1
5.1
9' - 5"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
1' - 4"
21' - 6"
27' - 0"
4' - 8"
13' - 9"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
10' - 7"
17' - 5"
28' - 10"
1' - 1"
49' - 10"
21' - 6"
27' - 0"
TRASH
3' - 11 1/2"
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 2 1/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 0 3/4"
5' - 6"
THIRD STORY PLAN
22
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 227 ---
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
2
A201
F.2
J.1
A.2
E.1
1
1
6.3
6.3
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
2-BED B
2-BED A
URBAN B
2-BED F
2-BED D
2-BED C
URBAN B
1-BED
URBAN C
URBAN A
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN A
URBAN A
1-BED
2-BED E
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN B
URBAN A
URBAN A
1-BED
144' - 1 1/4"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
67' - 0"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
5.1
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
CLR
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
6' - 6 1/2"
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
A.5
6' - 2 3/4"
6' - 2 3/4"
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 1 1/4"
5' - 11"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 1"
STAIR-02
5' - 6"
63' - 5 95/128"
 FOURTH STORY PLAN
23
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 228 ---
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
2
A201
F.2
J.1
A.2
E.1
1
1
6.3
6.3
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
5.1
5.1
144' - 1 1/4"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
67' - 0"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
A.5
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 1"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 2 1/4"
STAIR-02
5' - 6"
FIFTH STORY PLAN
24
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 229 ---
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
2
A201
0"
F.2
J.1
A.2
E.1
1
1
6.3
6.3
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
5.1
5.1
144' - 1 1/4"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
67' - 0"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
A.5
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 1"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 2 1/4"
STAIR-02
5' - 6"
SIXTH STORY PLAN
25
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 230 ---
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
2
A201
F.2
J.1
A.2
E.1
1
1
6.3
6.3
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
2-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
5.1
5.1
144' - 1 1/4"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
67' - 0"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
A.5
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 1"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 2 1/4"
STAIR-02
5' - 6"
SEVENTH STORY PLAN
26
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 231 ---
UP
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
2
A201
3' - 8"
F.2
J.1
A.2
1
1
6.3
6.3
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
5.1
144' - 1 1/4"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
67' - 0"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
871 SF
THE DEN
653 SF
AMENITY DECK
URBAN 1-BED
2-BED
2-BED
3-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
UTILITY
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
2-BED
STAIR-01
UTILITY
ELEVATORS
CORRIDOR
1-BED
1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
URBAN 1-BED
1-BED
36' - 1"
5' - 6"
36' - 7"
TRASH
RESTROOM
BBQ
609 SF
AMENITY DECK
3' - 6 1/2"
3' - 7 1/2"
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
A.5
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
 
 
10' - 0"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 2 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
24' - 1"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 2 1/4"
STAIR-02
5' - 6"
(GROSS)
743 SF (NET)
EIGHTH STORY PLAN
27
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 232 ---
RTU
RTU
2
A300
1
A200
2
A200
2
A201
SW - 8TH - 3
TPO MEMBRANE ROOFING, TYP
TERRA COTTA TILE ROOF BELOW
GUTTER
F.2
J.1
A.2
1
1
6.3
6.3
6.2
6.2
6.1
6.1
C.2
3.1
3.1
8.1
8.1
5.1
144' - 1 1/4"
76' - 10"
123' - 7"
76' - 10"
20' - 9"
46' - 3"
56' - 7"
6' - 8 1/4"
67' - 0"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
87' - 7"
79' - 8"
17' - 11"
55' - 6"
47' - 4"
49' - 10"
50' - 6 1/4"
43' - 9"
49' - 10"
43' - 10"
23' - 2"
15' - 8"
4' - 11"
49' - 10"
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
FIRE WALL BELOW
NO PENETRATION ZONE
NO PENETRATION ZONE
5/16" PER FOOT 
5/16" PER FOOT 
TRASH
EXHAUST
GARAGE
EXHAUST
TRELLIS BELOW
3' - 0 1/4"
3' - 6 1/2"
3' - 7 1/2"
WALK PADS
AIR CONDENSING UNITS 
MOUNTED ON ISOLATION PADS
A.5
SOLAR ZONE
1,120 SF
SOLAR ZONE
1,350 SF
TYP.
2' - 0"
SOLAR ZONE
330 SF
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
2 1/2" 
PER 
FOOT 
1
A300
PROPOSED SETBACK
7' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 0 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
9' - 8 3/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
5' - 1 1/2"
PROPOSED SETBACK
4' - 0 1/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
3' - 0 1/4"
PROPOSED SETBACK
25' - 5"
ROOF PLAN
28
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 233 ---
LANDSCAPE SITE PLAN
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
PROPERTYLINE
DELAWARE STREET
3RD AVENUE
ELDORADO STREET
Q2
P2
P1
H1
H1
P2
1
1
3
3
2
T1
T1
T1
T2
T2
A1
T2
T2
G1
G1
P2
P3
G2
G1
P1
P1
P1
G1
P2
A1
A1
B1
P1
A1
P2
B3
B3
P2
A1
G1
G1
T2
A2
A2
A2
A1
G1
A1
T1
T1
Q1
B2
B1
P2
P2
B3
B3
B3
B3
P2
H1
H1
H1
H1
G3
J1
J1
J1
J1
Q2
Q2
Q2
Q2
4
P2
P2
5
P1
P3
P2
P2
PAVEMENTS
CONCRETE PAVING - PEDESTRIAN, SEE CIVIL.
CONCRETE PAVING - VEHICULAR, SEE CIVIL.
SPECIALTY PAVING_ TYPE 1 3RD + DELAWARE ROW + PLAZA
- CITY STD BRICK, TANGIERS, HERRINGBONE PATTERN
SPECIALTY PAVING_TYPE 2  3RD + DELAWARE PLAZA
- CITY STD BRICK, TANGIERS, STACKED PATTERN
SPECIALTY PAVING_3 AT 3RD FRONTAGE
- CONCRETE UNIT PAVER, ROMAN, 8 X 24.
MATERIALS SCHEDULE
A1
A2
B1
B2
WALLS, CURBS & FENCES
RAISED METAL PLANTER
- WEATHERING STEEL, 24" HT
- GAP W/ GRAVEL AT EDGE OF PAVING FOR DRAINAGE
RAISED CONCRETE PLANTER
- INTEGRAL COLOR, 48" HT
FREESTANDING PLANTER
- FIBERGLASS, COLOR TO MATCH ARCH.
- 36" SQ.
METAL MESH VINE ARMATURE
-2"X2" GRID, PAINTED STEEL (BURNT SIENNA/OCHRE COLOR)
STAIRS AND  HANDRAILS
- CONCRETE UNIT PAVERS
- PAINTED STEEL HANDRAIL - TO MATCH ARCH.
SITE BENCH, WOOD ON CONCRETE BASE
- 18' LENGTH, BACKED W/ARMREST
BIKE RACK (CITY STD.)
- WELLE CIRCULAR TUBE, INGROUND
- STAINLESS STEEL
- 5 RACKS (10 SPACES TOTAL) PROVIDED. (2) DELAWARE, (2) 3RD AND (1) ELDORADO
STREET LIGHT (CITY STD) - REFER TO CIVIL
SITE FURNISHINGS
G1
G2
H1
Q1
Q2
CURB RAMP, CITY STD. (SEE CIVIL)
NEW PARKING STALL / STRIPING (SEE CIVIL)
PROPERTY LINE
PUBLIC PLAZA
PUBLIC SEATING PROVIDED - 18' LINEAR FEET PER 455' BUILDING FRONTAGE, ARMRESTS PROVIDED, 100%; BACKREST PROVIDED, OVER 50%
1
KEY NOTES
2
3
PLANTING
AT GRADE PLANTING AREA
RAISED PLANTING AREA
STORMWATER PLANTING AREA
STREET TREE TYPE.1
STREET TREE TYPE.2
P1
P2
P3
Q3
T1
T2
G3
B3
J1
4
5
20
5
0
SCALE:  1" = 10'
10
COPYRIGHT
THESE PLAN
THE SERVIC
OF THE ARC
DUPLICATED
REPRODUC
CONSENT O
COPYRIGHT
BE ENFORC
PREL
N
C
FO
TRUE NORTH
N
29
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 234 ---
ELEVATORS
LOBBY & LEASING
TRANSFORMER
STAIR-02
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
BIKES
STAIR-01
CORRIDOR
TRASH
TRASH
CORRIDOR
ND OFFICE
WORK ROOM
PARCEL
AMAZON
DOMESTIC
WATER
THE POST
ELEC
ELEC
GENERATOR
MECH
CORRIDOR
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL ROOM
TRASH
CORRIDOR
RE
CO
TH
TH
OF
DU
RE
CO
CO
BE
CIVIL ENGINEERING SITE PLAN
30
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 235 ---
C
C
C
C
C
ELEVATORS
LOBBY & LEASING
TRANSFORMER
STAIR-02
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
TOWNHOME
BIKES
STAIR-01
CORRIDOR
TRASH
TRASH
CORRIDOR
ND OFFICE
WORK ROOM
PARCEL
AMAZON
DOMESTIC
WATER
THE POST
ELEC
ELEC
GENERATOR
MECH
CORRIDOR
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL ROOM
TRASH
CORRIDOR
RE
CO
TH
TH
OF
DU
RE
CO
CO
BE
DELAWARE SREET
CIVIL ENGINEERING UTILITY PLAN
31
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 236 ---
32
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
TRASH MANAGEMENT PLAN
3CY
WASTE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
3CY
RECYCLE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
2CY
COMPOST
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
3CY
WASTE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
64 GAL.
RECYCLE
64 GAL.
WASTE
23 GAL.
COMPOST
3CY
RECYCLE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
55 GAL
BRUTE
TOP VIEW
55 GAL
BRUTE
TOP VIEW
3CY
WASTE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
3CY
RECYCLE
LOOSE FL
CONTAINER
PROPERTYLINE
A
B
C
D
E
F
E.2
G
H
J
K
J.1
L
E.1
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
7.1
8
9
9.1
F.1
A.1
C.1
5.1

--- page 237 ---
•	 7.1.2, 7.7.2 Asymmetrical massing with 
varied roof & cornice lines and reduces 
the overall height and bulk
•	 7.7.1 Modulated, well-proportioned bays 
break up continuous facade providing 
visual rhythm and scale
•	 7.7.1 Massing along residential streets 
step back at upper stories to reflect 
neighborhood character
•	 5.1, 7.1.3 Prominent corner with carved 
public open space and stepped-back 
residential amenities
33
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE
MASSING & ARTICULATION

--- page 238 ---
C
TRANSFORMER
CO
DOMESTIC
WATER
TH
ELEC
ELEC
GENERATOR
MECH
FIRE PUMP / CONTROL ROOM
C
DELAWARE SREET
SEE DETAIL 1
JOINT POLE EXHIBIT
34
668 E. 3RD AVE., SAN MATEO, CA  |  PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING |   FEBRUARY 10, 2026
JONES ARCHITECTURE

--- page 239 ---
1
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: Steve Sirianni 
 
Sent: Monday, February 9, 2026 3:29 PM 
To: Elizabeth "Liz" Gagliardi <egagliardi@cityofsanmateo.org> 
Subject: 668 E, 3rd Ave project  
 
Hi Liz, 
 
Please find my attached letter of support for the 668 E, 3rd Ave project.  More housing is necessary 
and Prometheus has proven to be a great partner and neighbor of San Mateo. 
 
Please let me know if you have any questions. 
 
Thanks, 
 
Steve Sirianni, VP Sales & Client Success 
 
The linked image cannot be displayed   The f le may have been moved  enamed  o  deleted  Ve ify that the link points o the co
ect file and locat on

--- page 240 ---
2
Specializing in First and Lasting Impressions

--- page 241 ---
February 10th, 2026 
 
City of San Mateo 
Planning Commission and City Council 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
Re:  
668 E. 3rd Ave. Project Application 
 
Dear City of San Mateo Planning Commissioners and City Council Members, 
 
As a 32-year resident of Foster City and business owner of the City of San Mateo, I am 
writing to urge you to approve the 668 E. 3rd Ave. project. 
 
The 668 E. 3rd Ave. project will provide much needed housing in close proximity to transit 
which will be in line with the goals of the recently adopted General Plan. 
 
The building’s highly detailed Mediterranean architecture incorporates well into the 
Objective Design Standards associated with Downtown San Mateo be a great addition to this 
part of the City adding much needed vibrancy and activity. 
 
This is a wonderful opportunity to improve the neighborhood and downtown and address the 
need for housing. Please approve 668 E. 3rd Ave.

--- page 242 ---
1
Holeva Finau
From:
James Lloyd 
Sent:
Tuesday, February 10, 2026 4:18 PM
To:
Planning Commission
Cc:
City Attorney's Office; Clerk; Community Development Distribution; City Mgr
Subject:
public comments re items 1 and 2 for tonight's Planning Commission meeting
Attachments:
San Mateo - 668 East 3rd Avenue - HAA.pdf; San Mateo - 1650-1720 S. Amphlett 
Boulevard - HAA.pdf
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
Please see attached public comments regarding agenda items 1 and 2 for tonight's Planning 
Commission meeting: 
 
the proposed 128-unit housing development project at 668 East 3rd Avenue, which includes 10 
very low-income units, and 10 moderate-income units; and 
 
the proposed 256-unit housing development project at 1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard, which 
includes 38 moderate-income units. 
Sincerely, 
 
James M. Lloyd 
Director of Planning and Investigations 
California Housing Defense Fund

--- page 243 ---
Feb 10, 2026
 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
By Email: PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
CC: CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org, clerk@cityofsanmateo.org, 
communitydevelopment@cityofsanmateo.org, citymanager@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
Re: Proposed Housing Development Project at 668 East 3rd Avenue  
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
The California Housing Defense Fund (“CalHDF”) submits this letter to remind the City of its 
obligation to abide by all relevant state laws when evaluating the proposed 128-unit housing 
development project at 668 East 3rd Avenue, which includes 10 very low-income units, and 
10 moderate-income units. These laws include the Housing Accountability Act (“HAA”), the 
Density Bonus Law (“DBL”), and AB 130. 
 
The HAA provides the project legal protections. It requires approval of zoning and general 
plan compliant housing development projects unless findings can be made regarding 
specific, objective, written health and safety hazards. (Gov. Code, § 65589.5, subds. (d.), (j).) 
The HAA also bars cities from imposing conditions on the approval of such projects that 
would reduce the project’s density (id. at subd. (j)) or render the project infeasible (id. at subd. 
(d)) unless, again, such written findings are made. As a development with at least two-thirds 
of its area devoted to residential uses, the project falls within the HAA’s ambit, and it 
complies with local zoning code and the City’s general plan.  Increased density, concessions, 
and waivers that a project is entitled to under the DBL (Gov. Code, § 65915) do not render the 
project noncompliant with the zoning code or general plan, for purposes of the HAA (Gov. 
Code, § 65589.5, subd. (j)(3)).  The HAA’s protections therefore apply, and the City may not 
reject the project except based on health and safety standards, as outlined above. 
Furthermore, if the City rejects the project or impairs its feasibility, it must conduct “a 
thorough analysis of the economic, social, and environmental effects of the action.” (Id. at 
subd. (b).)  
 
 
2201 Broadway, PH1, Oakland, CA 94612 
www.calhdf.org

--- page 244 ---
CalHDF also writes to emphasize that the DBL offers the proposed development certain
protections. The City must respect these protections. In addition to granting the increase in
residential units allowed by the DBL, the City must not deny the project the proposed
concessions and waivers with respect to height, blank walls, setbacks, stepbacks, entries, and
parking. If the City wishes to deny requested waivers, Government Code section 65915,
subdivision (e)(1) requires findings that the waivers would have a specific, adverse impact
upon health or safety, and for which there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or
avoid the specific adverse impact. If the City wishes to deny requested concessions,
Government Code section 65915, subdivision (d)(1) requires findings that the concessions
would not result in identifiable and actual cost reductions, that the concessions would have
a specific, adverse impact on public health or safety, or that the concessions are contrary to
state or federal law. The City, if it makes any such findings, bears the burden of proof. (Gov.
Code, § 65915, subd. (d)(4).) Of note, the DBL specifically allows for a reduction in required
accessory parking in addition to the allowable waivers and concessions. (Id. at subd. (p).)
Additionally, the California Court of Appeal has ruled that when an applicant has requested
one or more waivers and/or concessions pursuant to the DBL, the City “may not apply any
development standard that would physically preclude construction of that project as
designed, even if the building includes ‘amenities’ beyond the bare minimum of building
components.’ (Bankers Hill 150 v. City of San Diego (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 755, 775.)

Furthermore, the project is eligible for a statutory exemption from environmental review
pursuant to section 21080.66 of the Public Resources Code. Caselaw from the California
Court of Appeal affirms that local governments err, and may be sued, when they improperly
refuse to grant a project a CEQA exemption or streamlined CEQA review to which it is
entitled. (Hilltop Group, Inc. v. County of San Diego (2024) 99 Cal.App.Sth 890, 911.)

As you are well aware, California remains in the throes of a statewide crisis-level housing
shortage. New housing such as this is a public benefit: it will provide badly needed affordable
housing; it will increase the city’s tax base; it will bring new customers to local businesses;
and it will reduce displacement of existing residents by reducing competition for existing
housing. It will also provide important housing in the heart of Silicon Valley, a region that
has seen an explosion of employment opportunities without the needed housing growth,
resulting in crippling rent burdens and housing shortages. While no one project will solve
the statewide housing crisis, the proposed development is a step in the right direction.
CalHDF urges the City to approve it, consistent with its obligations under state law.

CalHDF is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation whose mission includes advocating for
increased access to housing for Californians at all income levels, including low-income
households. You may learn more about CalHDF at www.calhdf.org.

Sincerely,

2of 3



--- page 245 ---
Dylan Casey 
CalHDF Executive Director 
James M. Lloyd 
CalHDF Director of Planning and Investigations 
 
3 of 3

--- page 246 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
CITY OF SAN MATEO
Agenda Report
City Hall
330 W. 20th Avenue
San Mateo CA 94403
www.cityofsanmateo.org
Agenda Number:  2
Section Name: PUBLIC HEARING
File ID: 26-10857
TO:
Planning Commission
FROM:
Zachary Dahl, Director 
PREPARED BY:
Community Development Department
MEETING DATE:
February 10, 2026 
SUBJECT:
1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard - Multi-Family Residential Development (PA-2025-029)
RECOMMENDATION:
Adopt a Resolution approving the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), Site Development Planning Application (SDPA), 
and Vesting Tentative Map (VTM) for the construction of 256 multi-family residential units located at 1650-1720 S. Amphlett 
Boulevard, and find that the project is exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act pursuant to Public Resource 
Code 21080.66, based on the Findings for Approval and subject to Conditions of Approval. 
BACKGROUND:
On April 22, 2025, B9 Sequoia Bayshore Owner LP (applicant) submitted a formal Planning Application to demolish an existing 
office campus and construct a new multi-family residential development (“Project”) consisting of 256 for-sale residential 
units and associated site improvements. The Project consists of 192 townhome-style condominiums and 64 single-family 
detached residences.  A total of 15 percent of the housing units are designated for Moderate-Income households (38 
affordable units).
On December 20, 2024, the applicant submitted a complete Preliminary Application under Senate Bill 330, pursuant to 
Government Code Section 65589.5, prior to submitting the formal application. This vested the development to the standards 
and fee structure in effect at the time of submittal. 
SITE DESCRIPTION:
The Project site at 1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard is a 14.5-acre property, currently developed with seven three-story 
office buildings and one single-story commercial building. The site is bounded by South Amphlett Boulevard to the east, 
South Grant Street to the west, Leslie Creek to the north, and the former Marriott hotel property to the south. Surrounding 
uses include single-family residences to the north and west, Bayshore (101) freeway to the east, and commercial/office uses 
to the south. The Project would demolish all existing buildings and subdivide the existing three parcels into seven new parcels 
through a vesting tentative map.
The site has a General Plan land use designation of Mixed-Use Medium I and a zoning designation of E2-1 (Executive Office).  
It is located within the Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan Planning Area and portions of the site are within 
one-half mile of the Hayward Park Caltrain Station. Parcels within the Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan are 
categorized as either Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Zone parcels or Planning Area parcels. The Project site is located 
within the Planning Area, but outside of the TOD Zone. A location map showing the Project site’s vicinity is included as 
Attachment 2.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
The applicant proposes to construct 64 detached, three-story single-family residences primarily located on the west side of

--- page 247 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the site along South Grant Street, and 31 townhome buildings arranged in clusters of four to eight units across four separate 
parcels with 192 units. Two main vehicular access points are proposed along South Grant Street, with additional access 
provided along South Amphlett Boulevard to serve the townhome units. Open space amenities include landscaped paseos, 
walking paths, two dog parks located on opposite sides of the site, and a centrally located 0.4-acre park. Amenities and other 
features within the central park include a shade structure, picnic tables, and play equipment. The townhome buildings are 
oriented perpendicular to South Amphlett Boulevard, with pedestrian entrances accessed from interior paseos located 
between pairs of buildings. This configuration minimizes noise and air quality impacts from the adjacent freeway on the 
residential units.
The proposed 192 townhome units range in size from approximately 1,475 to 1,755 square feet and include two- and three-
bedroom floor plans. The proposed 64 single-family residences range from approximately 2,120 to 2,250 square feet and 
include four-bedroom floor plans. Each unit is provided with an attached two-car garage, configured in either a tandem or 
side-by-side arrangement. In addition, 55 on-site visitor parking spaces are proposed. The Project also provides a series of 
public infrastructure improvements, including a curb extension and the installation of high-visibility crosswalks at the 
intersection of South Grant Street and Betty Lane, sidewalk improvements per City’s Pedestrian Master Plan, as well as the 
restriping of South Grant Street and Amphlett Boulevard to provide on-street parking. A full set of the Project plans are 
included in Attachment 3.
APPLICABLE HOUSING LAWS: 
State Density Bonus Law 
The Project utilizes the provisions of State Density Bonus Law in accordance with Government Code Section 65915 and as 
locally adopted in SMMC Chapter 27.15 Density Bonus. To comply with Density Bonus regulations, the City must allow for 
increased residential density, reduced parking standards, and “concessions” and “waivers” from development standards for 
residential projects that provide a certain percentage of units as affordable units.
The General Plan 2040 land use designation for the site is Mixed-Use Medium I, which allows a density of 50 dwelling units 
per acre or a base density of 724 units. The applicant proposes to designate 15% of the total 256 for-sale residential units to 
the Moderate-Income category, which qualifies the Project for a 10% density bonus. Because the proposed density is 
below maximum density permitted by the General Plan, the Project is not requesting a density bonus.  
 
Concession and Waiver Requests
For this Project, State Density Bonus Law also allows the applicant to request one concession and unlimited waivers from 
development standards. Generally speaking, a concession (or incentive) is a reduction or modification of a development 
standard that results in identifiable or actual cost reductions to provide for affordable housing costs, helping to make the 
Project financially feasible. (A concession also includes a reduction in site development standards or a modification of zoning 
code requirements that exceed minimum building standards, as specified.)  A waiver is a modification of a standard that 
would otherwise physically preclude the construction of the Project at the allowed density. The Project application does not 
identify any concession requests under State Density Bonus Law. However, the Project is seeking several waivers for aspects 
of the Project that do not meet various City development standards. The applicant has also included a summary of the 
Project waivers in a density bonus request letter (Attachment 5). A complete list of the Project waivers is included in 
Attachment 1, Exhibit B.
Staff have evaluated the waivers and concluded that the waivers identified are necessary to allow construction of the 
Project at the densities permitted under the City’s General Plan and State Density Bonus Law.
Other Applicable State Laws
In addition to State Density Bonus Law, there are several other State Laws that regulate housing development projects. For 
this Project, these include, but are not necessarily limited to the following:
•
The Housing Crisis Act (Senate Bill 330)
o
Under Senate Bill 330 (SB 330), the Project vests the ordinances, policies, and standards adopted and in 
effect when a preliminary application was submitted to the City. This Project submitted a Preliminary 
Application under SB 330 on December 20, 2024, and is therefore vested to the ordinances, policies, and

--- page 248 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
standards in place as of this date. 
•
The Housing Accountability Act (HAA) 
o
The HAA limits a local agency’s ability to deny, reduce the density of, or render housing development 
projects infeasible if objective standards are met. As proposed, this Project meets all applicable objective 
standards in the General Plan, Zoning Code, and other local policy documents that were in effect at the time 
the preliminary application was submitted under SB330.
•
Assembly Bill 130
o
Assembly Bill 130 (AB 130) was signed into law and became effective immediately on June 20, 2025. AB130 
included numerous changes related to housing laws, including the addition of a new statutory exemption 
from the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) for housing development projects on sites under 20 
acres that meet specific qualifying criteria. In addition to the CEQA exemption, AB130 requires the Project 
to be processed on an expedited timeline.  
City Plans, Policies and Standards
General Plan and Zoning Code
The General Plan 2040 land use designation for the site is Mixed-Use Medium I, which allows a density of 50 dwelling units 
per acre for residential development. The Project proposes 17.6 units per acre, which is within the allowable density for 
Mixed-Use Medium I. A list of applicable General Plan policies and a discussion of the Project’s conformance to them are 
included in the Resolution in Attachment 1.
The Project site is zoned E2-1 (Executive Office), which establishes development standards for floor area ratio (FAR), 
setbacks, and open space. The Project conforms to various development standards, including maximum density, setbacks, 
number of stories, parking, and loading requirements. The land use designation allows up to five stories on the site, while 
the Project proposes three-story buildings. The Project site is also located within 0.5-mile of Hayward Park Caltrain station, 
a major transit stop. Therefore, pursuant to Government Code Section 65863.2 (AB 2097), this Project is not subject to any 
minimum parking requirements. Nevertheless, the applicant is proposing to voluntarily provide a two-car garage for each 
unit as well as 55 on-site visitors parking. With approval of the requested waivers, the Project will conform to all applicable 
development standards. A Factual Data Sheet listing the applicable zoning standards and the Project’s conformance to them 
is included as Attachment 4.
Transportation Impact Analysis 
The Project is screened out of a Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) analysis required by the California Environmental Quality Act 
(CEQA), because the Projects located within one-half mile of a major transit stop are presumed to result in less-than-
significant transportation impacts pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15064.3. 
General Plan 2040 Circulation Element Policy C 6.3 requires a site-specific transportation impact analysis prepared in 
accordance with the City’s adopted Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Policy for development projects that may result in 
an adverse condition or effect on the roadway system. This is a local policy requirement and is independent of CEQA VMT 
analysis. A transportation memo was prepared by the applicant’s consultant, Fehr & Peers, to demonstrate compliance with 
this General Plan Policy and the City’s Local Transportation Analysis Guidelines. The trip generation analysis indicates that 
the Project would result in a net reduction of approximately 1,700 daily vehicle trips, including a reduction of 380 trips during 
the AM peak hour (415 inbound and 35 outbound) and a reduction of 320 trips during the PM peak hour (17 inbound and 
338 outbound).
Fehr & Peers prepared a qualitative assessment of traffic conditions at three intersections based on existing travel patterns. 
Level of service (LOS) analysis was not conducted, as the proposed Project would result in a substantial decrease in vehicle 
trips. While the analysis identifies directional shifts in traffic associated with the change in land use from office to residential, 
it concludes that the Project would not result in impacts to the roadway system. The Fehr & Peers Transportation Impact 
Analysis (TIA) is included as Attachment 6.
Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan
The Rail Corridor Plan establishes goals and policies to promote transit-oriented development within a half-mile radius of

--- page 249 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
the Hillsdale and Hayward Park Caltrain station areas. The Project site is located within one-half mile of the Hayward Park 
Caltrain Station and within the Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan planning area. By providing consistent 
height and density, human-scale block sizes, and creating a unique and distinctive neighborhood within the plan area, the 
Project supports the Plan’s goals and policies. In addition, the Project includes significant site and streetscape improvements 
as mentioned in the project description. A full list of applicable Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan policies and 
an analysis of the Project’s consistency are included in Attachment 1.
City’s Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program 
The City’s Below Market Rate (BMR) Program requires ownership projects of 11 or more units to dedicate a minimum of 15 
percent of the proposed units to the Moderate-Income category. The applicant proposes to designate 38 units (15 percent 
of the total 256 units) as Moderate-Income BMR units, including nine single-family residences and 29 townhomes. These 
affordable units are required to have access to all on-site amenities, be generally comparable in size to similar market-rate 
units, and feature exterior designs and appearances compatible with market-rate units. The Project includes a 0.4 fractional 
unit to achieve the full 15 percent requirement and is allowed to utilize the Fractional Unit Fee, as the BMR unit calculation 
results in a fractional unit of less than 0.5. The Fractional Unit Fee for the 0.4 unit will be collected and deposited into the 
City’s Affordable Housing Fund in-lieu of providing an additional affordable unit.
Multi-Family and Residential Mixed-Use Objective Design Standards
The Project is subject to the City’s Multi-Family and Residential Mixed-Use Objective Design Standards (ODS). The proposed 
architectural style is best characterized as contemporary, expressed through a combination of stucco, lap siding, and other 
materials that articulate building volumes and emphasize projections and step-backs. Traditional design elements are also 
incorporated through material selections such as asphalt shingle roofing and brick or stone veneer accents. Two color 
schemes are provided for each building type, incorporating neutral tones such as gray stucco and white siding, along with 
accent colors including green sliding panels. Overall, the buildings maintain a consistent height, unit width, and massing 
throughout the development.
The proposed buildings are three stories in height and are classified as mid-rise structures pursuant to the City’s ODS, with 
roof peaks reaching approximately 41 feet. Each unit includes a two-car garage oriented toward internal circulation streets, 
with pedestrian access provided along the rear façades via shared paseos. The units feature front porches and second-story 
balconies or sunrooms, enhancing the residential character and providing private outdoor space. Architectural articulation 
is emphasized along the side and rear façades through step-backs, projections, and façade modulation at intervals of 
approximately ten to fifteen feet. Roofline variation is similarly incorporated on these façades, adding visual interest along 
the pedestrian-oriented paseos. The Project requests several waivers from the ODS, specifically related to massing breaks, 
wall articulation, and roofline variation along the front façades facing internal streets. While the ODS requires wall 
articulation through projecting and recessed rooms and architectural projections, the buildings fronting the internal 
roadways lack sufficient wall articulation and roofline variation. Therefore, waivers from these standards are requested 
pursuant to the State Density Bonus Law. A complete list of the requested ODS waivers is provided in Attachment 1, Exhibit 
B.
Planning Applications
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
The Project requires Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR) approval for the construction of a new multi-family residential 
development pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code (“SMMC”) Section 27.08.030. The Project proposes a multi-family 
development that complements the existing architectural character of the surrounding neighborhood through the use of 
high-quality materials and extensive landscaping, which enhances the overall visual character of the site and adjacent area. 
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City, nor impair the desirability of 
investment or occupation in the vicinity, and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare. Overall, 
the Project design supports orderly and harmonious development of the site, complies with applicable development 
standards and General Plan policies, and would not result in adverse impacts. Details on the SPAR findings for approval are 
included in the Resolution (Attachment 1).
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)

--- page 250 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
SMMC Section 23.40 requires a Site Development Planning Application (SDPA) approval for removal of major vegetation and 
grading of the site.  The SMMC defines “major vegetation,” as live vegetation consisting of tree growth with a trunk diameter 
of six inches or greater measured at 54 inches above natural grade. The SMMC also defines a Protected Tree as any heritage 
tree or street tree. Heritage trees include any oak tree with a minimum diameter of 10 inches measured at 54 inches above 
natural grade as well as any other species with a diameter of 15 inches measured at 54 inches above natural grade.
The Project proposes the removal of a total of 169 trees, 49 of which qualify as protected trees. All trees proposed for 
removal are located within the proposed building footprint or other site improvement areas. The equivalent landscape unit 
(LU) value of the removed trees will be replaced, as conditioned, through the planting of new trees, payment of an in-lieu 
fee, or a combination of both, in accordance with Municipal Code Section 27.71. While the Project proposes the removal of 
169 trees, the applicant also proposes approximately 620 new trees. The Project will pay an in-lieu fee to the City’s Tree 
Planting Fund to account for the remaining LU value loss, as required by code. Details regarding the SDPA findings for 
approval are provided in the Resolution (Attachment 1).
Vesting Tentative Map
The Project requires approval of a Vesting Tentative Map (VTM), pursuant to San Mateo Municipal Code Section 26.48, to 
consolidate three parcels and create seven new parcels. In addition, the Project proposes to establish individual lots for the 
single-family residences and to create condominium units for the townhomes. The final map for the proposed subdivision 
shall be obtained prior to issuance of building permits. Additional details regarding the VTM findings for approval are 
included in the Resolution. (Attachment 1).
NOTICE PROVIDED:
In accordance with Government Code Section 65090, notice of this public hearing was published in the San Mateo Daily 
Journal newspaper ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting. In accordance with Government Code Section 
65091 and the City’s Municipal Code noticing requirements, this public hearing was noticed to the following parties more 
than ten days in advance of this Planning Commission meeting:
•
Property owners, residential tenants and business tenants within 1,000 feet of the Project site. 
•
The City’s Planning “Notify Me” email list; and, 
•
The interested parties email list, which includes interested individuals who contacted the City and requested to be 
added to the Project notification list. 
  
PUBLIC COMMENTS:
The applicant held a formal Neighborhood Informational Meeting on March 26, 2025, which was attended by approximately 
25 participants. During the formal application review, one public comment was submitted to staff, which is included as 
Attachment 8. The comment expressed concern regarding vehicles from the proposed development traveling through the 
Sunnybrae and Central neighborhoods located west of the Project site, as well as potential parking impacts on South Grant 
Street. Any public comments received after publication of this report will be forwarded to the Planning Commission for 
review and consideration at the public hearing and posted to this item on the City’s Agendas & Minutes Public Meeting 
Portal as “Post Packet Public Comments.”
FISCAL IMPACT:
As a new housing project filed under SB 330, the Project would be subject to several impact and in-lieu fees in effect at the 
time of the application filing date, including the ones listed below, which are assessed and collected prior to the issuance of 
building permits or occupancy. These estimates are exclusive of any credits that the Project may receive due to the existing 
buildings on site:
•
Child Care Development Fee of approximately $947,050 to offset the impact on the need for future childcare space 
needs by new development.
•
Park Impact Fee to offset the increased demands on park and recreation facilities serving new developments.
•
Wastewater Capacity Charge of approximately $2,650,160 to recover a proportionate share of costs for existing and 
future wastewater system facilities and assets from new or expanded connections to City wastewater systems.

--- page 251 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO
•
School Impact Fees in the amount of $4.94 per sq. ft. of residential area to offset the increased demands on school 
facilities caused by new development. This is collected by the San Mateo Union High School District for all schools 
in San Mateo.
•
Landscape Unit In-Lieu Fee of approximately $1,723,2901, assessed for each Landscape Unit value not physically 
planted on-site or along street frontages.
•
Below Market Rate Fractional Unit Fee of approximately $122,800 in lieu of providing an additional affordable unit.
•
Public Art Fee in the amount of 1.19% of the total building valuation (excluding land acquisition and off-site 
improvement cost) in lieu of providing on-site public art.
ENVIRONMENTAL DETERMINATION:
The proposed Project is exempt pursuant to Public Resource Code Section 21080.66 (AB 130) of the California Environmental 
Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines. The Project meets the criteria for this exemption as it:
•
The site is no larger than 20 acres. 
•
The site is located within an urban area. 
•
The site has been previously developed with an urban use. 
•
The Project is consistent with the General Plan and applicable zoning regulations. 
•
The Project provides at least one-half of the density of the Housing Element’s default affordable housing zoning 
thresholds. 
•
The Project is not located within a costal zone, prime farmland or farmland of statewide importance, wetland, a very 
high fire hazard severity zone, A hazardous waste site, a delineated earthquake fault zone, a special flood hazard 
area, a regulatory floodway, Lands identified for conservation in an adopted natural community conservation plan, 
or Habitat for protected species 
•
The Project does not involve the demolition of a historic structure listed on a national, state, or local register prior 
to the application submittal. 
•
No portion of the Project is designated for use as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or other transient lodging 
The proposed Project meets all applicable criteria and therefore qualifies for this statutory exemption. In accordance with 
Public Resources Code Section 21080.66(b)(1)(A), the City formally notified Native American tribes and invited consultation 
regarding the Project and its potential impacts on tribal cultural resources; one tribe participated in the process. On 
November 3, 2025, staff met with the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe that participated in the consultation.  In coordination with 
the tribe, Conditions of Approval have been incorporated to avoid impacts to cultural resources. Furthermore, consistent 
with Public Resources Code Section 21080.66(c), the Project is conditioned to provide a Phase I Environmental Site 
Assessment, to exclude balconies facing the freeway within 500 feet, and to implement a centralized heating and air 
conditioning system with air filtration media.
ATTACHMENTS
Att 1 – Draft Resolution with Findings
Exhibit A - Conditions of Approval
Exhibit B – Density Bonus Waivers
Att 2 – Location Map
Att 3 – Project Plans 
Att 4 – Factual Data Sheet
Att 5 – Density Bonus Request Letter
Att 6 – Transportation Impact Analysis dated January 9, 2026
Att 7 – CEQA Exemption Memo
Att 8 – Public Comments
STAFF CONTACT
Simin Zakavand, AICP, Associate Planner
szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7219

--- page 252 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO 
RESOLUTION NO. 
 (2026)
A RESOLUTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVING SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW, SITE 
DEVELOPMENT PLANNING APPLICATION, AND VESTING TENTATIVE MAP TO CONSTRUCT 256 RESIDENTIAL 
UNITS WITH ASSOCIATED PARKING, LANDSCAPING, ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS, AND OPEN SPACE AREAS, 
AND DETERMINE THAT THE PROJECT IS EXEMPT FROM FURTHER ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW UNDER THE 
CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT
WHEREAS, B9 Sequoia Bayshore Owner LP ( “Applicant”) submitted a Planning Application No. PA-2025-
029 for a Site Plan and Architectural Review, Site Development Planning Application, and Vesting Tentative Map 
for construction of a new multi-family development consisting of 256 for-sale residential units (townhomes and 
single-family) with associated parking, landscaping and open space areas located 1650-1720 S. Amphlett 
Boulevard (collectively referred to as “Project”) in the City of San Mateo (“City”);
WHEREAS, the proposed Project is designated as Mixed-Use Medium I in the General Plan Land Use Plan, 
Zoned E2-1 (Executive Offices) in the Zoning Ordinance, and located within Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented 
Development Plan planning area;
WHEREAS, in fulfillment of the City’s Below Market-Rate requirement pursuant to San Mateo Municipal 
Code (“SMMC”) Section 27.16.050, the Project is providing 38 for-sale units affordable to Moderate-Income 
households, of which three are two-bedroom townhomes, 26 are three-bedroom townhomes, and nine are four-
bedroom single-family homes;
WHEREAS, SMMC Section 23.06.040 authorizes the Planning Commission to take final action on Site Plan 
and Architectural Review for projects of six (6) or more residential dwelling units that do not meet all Objective 
Design Standards as adopted by resolution of the City Council;
WHEREAS, the Project is exempt from CEQA under Public Resource Code 21080.66, based on the findings 
in the section below;
WHEREAS, the Project consistent with the applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 and other 
applicable policies;
WHEREAS, the Project is providing 15 percent of the units affordable to Moderate-Income households 
which allows the applicant to request one concession and unlimited waivers from development standards 
pursuant to Government Code Section 65915(d). The Project does not request any concessions. A list of Project 
waivers is included as Exhibit B; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing for the Project on February 10, 2026 duly 
noticed, at which all public comments were considered.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, HEREBY 
FINDS AND RESOLVES that:

--- page 253 ---
1.
The Site Plan and Architectural Review, Site Development Planning Application and Vesting 
Tentative Map to construct 256 residential units with associated parking, landscaping, roadway 
improvements and open space areas is approved.
2.
The Planning Commission finds on the basis of the whole record before it that the Project will not 
have a significant effect on the environment and is therefore statutory exempt from the 
provisions of CEQA under Public Resource Code Section 21080.66 (AB 130), as follows:
a.
The Project is consistent with the General Plan designation and all applicable General Plan
policies, as well as the applicable zoning designation of E2-1;
b.
The Project site is located within the City of San Mateo on a Project site less than twenty acres 
(14.5 acres) that is surrounded by urban uses;
c.
The site has been previously developed with an urban use;
d.
The Project provides 17.7 dwelling units per acre, which exceeds one-half of the Housing 
Element’s default density threshold of 30 dwelling units per acre for accommodating lower-
income households;
e.
The Project is not located within a costal zone, prime farmland or farmland of statewide 
importance, wetland, very high fire hazard severity zone, hazardous waste site, delineated 
earthquake fault zone, special flood hazard area, regulatory floodway, lands identified for 
conservation in an adopted natural community conservation plan, or habitat for protected 
species;
f.
The Project does not involve the demolition of a historic structure listed on a national, state, 
or local register prior to the application submittal;
g.
No portion of the Project is designated for use as a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast inn, or 
other transient lodging;
h.
The Project, as conditioned, provides heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and air filtration 
media for all units within 500 feet of the freeway;
i.
The Project completed tribal consultation pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 
21080.66(b)(1), with one tribe participating in the consultation process. Appropriate 
conditions are included in the Conditions of Approval to ensure the avoidance of impacts to 
cultural resources.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA AS 
FOLLOWS:
General Plan Conformance
3.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Land Use Element.
a.
Policy LU 1.1 Equitable Development. Prioritize development projects that meet social and 
economic needs of the economically vulnerable populations to address and reverse the 
underlying socioeconomic factors in the community that contribute to residential and social 
segregation in the city. Provide a range of housing types, sizes, and affordability levels in all 
San Mateo neighborhoods.

--- page 254 ---


--- page 255 ---
b.
Policy LU 3.1 Housing Diversity. Promote safe, attractive, and walkable residential 
neighborhoods with diverse types and sizes of homes for individuals, families, and households 
of all income levels.
The Project is consistent with the above Land Use Element policies by providing a diverse mix of 
single-family residences and townhomes, including 218 market-rate units and 38 affordable units 
for Moderate-Income households, within one-half mile of the Hayward Caltrain Station. The 
Project replaces an underutilized office park with high-quality residential development that 
incorporates on-site amenities and open spaces. It also includes a range of bedroom 
configurations that support family-oriented living, including two- and three-bedroom townhomes 
and four-bedroom single-family residences.
4.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Circulation Element.
a.
Policy C 3.2 Pedestrian Enhancements with New Development. Require new development 
projects to provide sidewalks and pedestrian ramps and to repair or replace damaged 
sidewalks, in addition to right-of-way improvements identified in adopted City master plans. 
Encourage new developments to include pedestrian-oriented design to facilitate pedestrian 
path of travel.
b.
Policy C 4.5 Bicycle Improvements. Require new developments to construct or contribute to 
improvements that enhance the cyclist experience, including bicycle lanes and bicycle 
parking.
c.
Policy C 6.3 Local Transportation Analysis. Require site-specific transportation impact 
analysis following the City’s adopted Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) Policy for 
development projects where there may be an adverse condition or effect on the roadway 
system.
The Project is consistent with the above Circulation Element policies by providing an enhanced 
pedestrian network that improves connectivity to the Hayward Caltrain Station in accordance 
with the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan. A transportation memo was prepared for the Project to 
demonstrate compliance with this General Plan Policy and the City’s Local Transportation Analysis 
Guidelines. The Project incorporates paseos and an internal, enhanced pedestrian circulation 
system that connects residential units to on-site open spaces and the central park. In addition, 
the Project provides both short-term and long-term bicycle parking and includes restriping of the 
bike boulevard on Grant Street, consistent with the City’s Bicycle Master Plan.
5.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of Housing Element 2023-02031.
a.
Policy H 1.5 Encourage Family Housing. Prioritize creation of housing that addresses the 
needs of large families, providing greater housing choice.
b.
Policy H1.3 Increase Affordable Housing Production. Adopting an updated Density 
Bonus/Community Benefit Program that provides additional incentives and/or streamlining 
option for housing projects that provide additional affordable units or the most needed unit 
types (including those with special needs) beyond minimum State requirements.
c.
Policy H 1.12 Encourage Development of Missing Middle Housing.
The Project is consistent with the applicable Housing Element policies by providing family-sized 
housing, including single-family residences with four bedrooms and townhomes with two- and 
three-bedroom floor plans. The Project increases affordable housing production by providing 38 
affordable units for Moderate-Income households and by contributing the required fractional unit 
in-lieu fee to the City’s affordable housing program. In addition, the Project includes 192

--- page 256 ---


--- page 257 ---
townhomes, supporting the development of “missing middle” housing and expanding housing 
options for a range of household sizes and income levels.
6.
The Project conforms to applicable policies of the General Plan 2040 Community Design and 
Historic Resources Element.
a.
Policy CD 1.1 Respect for the Landscape. Encourage new development to respect and 
respond to the natural topography of San Mateo.
b.
Policy CD 3.2 Replacement Planting. Require appropriate replacement planting or payment 
of an in-lieu fee when protected trees on public or private property are removed.
c.
Policy CD 4.3 Tribal Consultation. Consult with Native American representatives, including 
through early coordination, to identify locations of importance to Native Americans, including 
archaeological sites, sacred sites, traditional cultural properties, and other types of tribal 
cultural resources. Respect tribal concerns if a tribe has a religious prohibition against 
revealing information about specific practices or locations.
d.
Policy CD 6.7 Public Open Space Design. Seek opportunities to establish public open spaces 
in new developments and new public buildings, and promote innovative and creative designs 
to create exceptional, unique, and functional spaces. Require signage that clearly delineates 
these spaces as publicly accessible.
e.
Policy CD 7.3 Multifamily Design. Encourage architectural design of new multifamily 
developments that enhances a neighborhood’s visual and architectural character by providing 
context sensitive building and pedestrian-scale elements, high-quality materials and 
construction, open space, and resident amenities.
The Project respects the site’s natural topography and surrounding features by maintaining 
appropriate setbacks from Lesslie Creek along the northwest edge of the site. The Project provides 
in-lieu fees for protected trees proposed for removal and includes the installation of replacement 
trees in accordance with City requirements. Tribal consultation for the Project was completed, 
and appropriate conditions are included in the Conditions of Approval to ensure the avoidance of 
impacts to cultural resources. The Project incorporates three on-site open space areas with 
amenities, including two dog parks and a 0.4-acre central park featuring picnic tables, shade 
structures, and bicycle parking. In addition, the Project proposes a contemporary architectural 
style that enhances neighborhood character and includes pedestrian-scale elements such as 
paseos, open spaces, and resident-serving amenities.
Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan
a.
Policy 4.9 Develop an area-wide pedestrian and bicycle circulation network which will result 
in convenient and direct connections throughout the plan area and into adjacent 
neighborhoods and districts.
b.
Policy 6.17 Orient building entries to the street and screen structured parking at grade with 
special perimeter treatments.
c.
Policy 6.18 Limit the number of curb cuts and garage door access points to off-street parking 
in housing blocks and provide on-street parking.
d.
Policy 6.21 Include a combination of city and neighborhood-scaled parks and plazas to serve 
plan area residents, workers, and visitors of all ages.
The Project is consistent with the applicable Rail Corridor Development Plan in that it provides 
sidewalk improvements consistent with the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan, orients private street 
entries toward South Grant Street and Amphlett Boulevard, provides on-street parking along both

--- page 258 ---


--- page 259 ---
street frontages, and includes open spaces such as a central park and two dog parks located on 
either side of the site.
Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
1.
The Site Plan and Architectural Review (Municipal Code Section 27.08.030) application and 
associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the following findings:
a.
The structures, site plan, and landscaping are in scale and harmonious with the character of 
the neighborhood in that:
i.
The design and massing of the proposed buildings are appropriately scaled and 
compatible with the existing single-family residential neighborhoods located to the 
north and west of the site.
ii.
The three-story buildings comply with the General Plan’s maximum building height 
allowance of three to five stories and incorporate appropriate setbacks from property 
lines to reduce potential visual impacts.
iii.
The buildings utilize high-quality materials and incorporate extensive landscaping 
throughout the project to enhance the overall visual character of the site and 
surrounding area.
b.
The development will not be detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City in 
that:
i.
The Project’s proposed density of 17.7 dwelling units per acre is consistent with the 
Mixed-Use Medium I General Plan Land Use designation, which allows medium-
density residential uses 15 to 50 dwelling units per acre.
ii.
The Project provides parking in accordance with SMMC Chapter 27.64, exceeding 
State-required parking standards and significantly reducing trips compared to the 
existing office use, thereby minimizing potential neighborhood impacts.
iii.
The Project is consistent with the Zoning Code and the Multi-Family and Residential 
Mixed-Use Objective Design Standards, except where modifications are allowed 
under the State Density Bonus Law.
iv.
The Project is in conformance with the General Plan, the Rail Corridor Transit-
Oriented Development Plan, the Bicycle Master Plan, and the Citywide Pedestrian 
Master Plan.
c.
The development will not impair the desirability of investment or occupation in the vicinity, 
and otherwise is in the best interests of the public health, safety, or welfare in that:
i.
The Project provides additional housing opportunities including affordable housing 
units and, as conditioned, would not result in any significant impacts to public health, 
safety, or welfare.
ii.
The Project provides right-of-way improvements along S Grant St. and Amphlett Blvd.
iii.
The Project will be constructed in compliance with all applicable building codes, fire 
codes, and the City’s building security requirements.
d.
The development meets all applicable standards as adopted by the Planning Commission and 
City Council, conforms with the General Plan, and will correct any violations of the zoning 
ordinance, building code, or other municipal codes that exist on the site.

--- page 260 ---


--- page 261 ---
i.
The Project complies with the General Plan density and maximum building height 
allowances, the Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan policies, and all 
applicable development standards of the Zoning Code, subject to approval of the 
requested waivers. No violations of the Zoning Ordinance or Building Code were 
identified on the site. Therefore, the development meets all applicable standards as 
adopted by the Planning Commission and City Council, conforms with the General 
Plan and other applicable plans and policies.
e.
The development will not adversely affect matters regarding police protection, crime 
prevention, and security in that the buildings, paths of travel, and parking facilities will be 
required to conform to the City’s current Security Ordinance through Conditions of Approval.
i.
The Project complies with the City’s Security Ordinance by providing a physical 
security plan and a site lighting plan through the Conditions of Approval.
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)
2.
All concerns regarding surface grading, structure foundations, drainage, subsurface conditions, 
erosion, landscaping and tree removal have been addressed and the Site Development Planning 
Application (SMMC 23.40.040) and associated Conditions of Approval are approved based on the 
following findings and factors:
a.
Saturation of fill and unsupported cuts by water, both natural and domestic;
i.
The Preliminary Geotechnical Investigation completed for the project, prepared by 
Langan Engineering and Environmental Services, concludes that from a geotechnical 
standpoint, the site can be developed as planned. The recommendations provided in 
the report address concerns related to groundwater and site infiltration.
b.
Runoff of surface waters that produce erosion, and silting of drainage ways;
i.
The hydrology report and stormwater control plan demonstrates that the project site 
will treat stormwater runoff and surface waters.
c.
Subsurface conditions such as the rock strata and faults;
i.
The Preliminary Geotechnical Investigation concludes that from a geotechnical 
standpoint, the site can be developed as planned. The recommendations provided in 
the report address all concerns related to expansive soils and subsurface conditions.
d.
Nature and type of soil or rock that when disturbed by the proposed grading may create earth 
movements;
i.
The Preliminary Geotechnical Investigation concludes that from a geotechnical 
standpoint, the site can be developed as planned. The recommendations provided in 
the report address all concerns related to foundations and settlement.
e.
Effect upon the potential for optimum subdivision design;
i.
The grading for the site is necessary to accommodate the development of the Project 
and will not have affect on the optimum subdivision design.
f.
Effect upon the visual relationships with other development in the vicinity of the site;
i.
The Project proposes a multifamily development that complements the existing 
architectural character of the surrounding neighborhood through the use of high-
quality materials and extensive landscaping, thereby enhancing the overall visual

--- page 262 ---


--- page 263 ---
character of the site and the adjacent area. As a result, the Project will have a positive 
effect on the visual relationship with other development in the vicinity of the site.
g.
Appropriateness of the proposed site development for the character of a planned community 
or planned unit development proposal;
i.
The proposed Project is not within a planned community or planner unit 
development
h.
Capability of proposed slopes to be landscaped;
i.
The Project provides a total of 126,063 square feet of landscaped area throughout 
the site. All portions of the site not occupied by buildings or roadways are landscaped.
i.
Whether the natural landscape and major vegetation is unnecessarily scarred through the 
proposed grading or removal of vegetation;
i.
The Project will not scar the natural landscape or major vegetation as a result of the 
proposed grading or vegetation removal. The grading and removal of heritage trees 
are necessary to accommodate development of the Project. The Project preserves 
three heritage trees and avoids impacts to the natural landscaping along Leslie Creek 
adjacent to the site.
j.
The report from the Project Arborist with respect to Protected Trees pursuant to 
Chapters 27.71 and 13.40;
i.
The project will result in the removal of 169 existing trees, of which 49 are considered 
Heritage Trees. The removal of these trees is necessary to accommodate the 
development of the proposed project. All trees will be removed and replaced with 
appropriate landscaping to both enhance the site and create necessary buffers 
between surrounding properties.
ii.
All concerns regarding tree removal on the site have been addressed as conditions of 
approval requiring conformance to the City's landscape regulations, through the 
provision of extensive on-site landscaping as shown on the project plans, and/or 
through the payment of a fee to the City’s tree planting fund.
k.
Any other considerations arising from any environmental impact report which will eliminate 
or mitigate environmental damage.
i.
The project is exempt from CEQA under Public Resource Code 21080.66 (AB 130) and 
will not an any significant impact on the environment.
Vesting Tentative Map (VTM)
The Commission shall deny approval of a tentative map if it makes any of the following findings (Municipal Code 
Section 26.48.060):
l.
That the proposed map is not consistent with applicable general and specific plans.
i.
The proposed map is consistent with applicable General Plan policies, as the Mixed-
Use Medium I General Plan Land Use designation of the site allows residential uses. 
Specific General Plan policies that apply are listed in the General Plan Conformance 
Section of this Resolution.
m. That the design or improvement of the proposed subdivision is not consistent with applicable 
general and specific plans.

--- page 264 ---


--- page 265 ---
i.
The design and improvements of the proposed subdivision are consistent with 
applicable General Plan policies and the Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development 
Plan.
n.
That the site is not physically suitable for the type of development.
i.
The site is physically suitable for the type of development because it is currently 
developed with structures and is served by all required utilities and public services. In 
addition, there is nothing particular about this site that would preclude this 
development.
o.
That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of development.
i.
The site is physically suitable for the proposed density of development, as the 
Project’s density of 17.7 dwelling units per acre complies with the maximum allowed 
density for the site (50 dwelling units per acre). In addition, there is nothing particular 
about this site that would preclude this development.
p.
That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are likely to cause 
substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure fish or wildlife or their 
habitat.
i.
The design of the subdivision and proposed improvements are not likely to cause 
substantial environmental damage or substantially and avoidably injure fish or 
wildlife or their habitat, as the Project redevelops a previously developed urban site 
and maintains appropriate setbacks from the existing Leslie Creek to avoid impacts to 
fish or wildlife habitats.
q.
That the design of the subdivision or type of improvements is likely to cause serious public 
health problems.
i.
The design of the subdivision and proposed improvements are not likely to cause 
serious public health problems, as City ordinances minimize potential air quality and 
noise impacts during construction, and the Project will contribute to public 
improvements, including roadways and public facilities, without constraining the 
delivery of public services.
r.
The design of the subdivision and proposed improvements will conflict with easements 
acquired by the public for access to or use of property within the proposed subdivision.
i.
No public access easements are located on the Project site. Therefore, the design of 
the subdivision and the proposed improvements will not conflict with any existing or 
proposed easements acquired by the public for access to or use of property within 
the subdivision.

--- page 266 ---


--- page 267 ---
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF SAN MATEO PLANNING APPLICATION
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
1650-1720 S AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA 94402-2713 
PARCEL # 035241260, 035241250, 035241240
AS APPROVED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION ON 
The following conditions of approval apply to the project referenced above. The conditions of 
approval are grouped under specific headings that relate to the timing of required compliance.
Additional language within a condition may further define the timing of required compliance. Types of 
Building permits include Demolition, Shoring/Excavation, Foundation, and Superstructure.
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a DEMOLITION PERMIT, BUILDING
PERMIT FOR SHORING OR FOUNDATION, or SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, whichever is issued first,
or prior to the deadline specified in that condition.
Planning Division (PA)
1
CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL – This complete list of Conditions of Approval shall be
reproduced onto the second sheet of all building permit plan sets. (PLANNING)
2
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT PLAN - Prior to issuance of any permits, the applicant 
shall submit a Construction Management Plan (CMP) for review and approval by the 
Community Development Director or their designee. The CMP shall be implemented 
throughout all phases of construction and shall include, at a minimum, the following 
components:
Construction timeline (estimated) including major milestones
a.
Construction Phasing Plan
b.
Project 24-Hour Liaison and Disturbance Coordinator Name and Contact 
Information
Construction Sign as required in Pre-Construction Meeting Guide
c.
Construction Hours Acknowledgment and Work Hour Waiver Requirements 
for Extended Operations (e.g. large concrete pours, crane hoists, etc.)
d.
Winterization Plan (if excavation/grading will occur in wet season)
e.
Documentation of Adjacent Street Condition (when applicable)
f.
Traffic Control and Logistic Plan
g.
Road or Sidewalk Closure Plan
h.
Construction Hauling Routes
i.
Construction Worker Parking Location and Agreements
j.
Construction Materials and Equipment Staging Plan
k.
Construction Equipment List including compliance with applicable Air Quality 
and Emission Regulations

--- page 268 ---


--- page 269 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 2 of 23
l.
Erosion and Dust Control Plan
m.
Vibration Monitoring Plan
n.
Construction Noise Mitigation Plan
o.
Vector Control Plan
A full list of requirements for this document can be found within the construction 
management plan guide available on the City website. Any modification to the 
approved CMP throughout the construction process shall be subject to review and 
approval by the Community Development Director or their designee (PLANNING)
3
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT PLAN COMPLIANCE - The applicant shall implement 
and remain in full compliance with the approved Construction Management Plan 
throughout all phases of construction. All construction activities shall be conducted in 
a manner consistent with the approved plan. Any deviation from, or modification to 
the approved Construction Management Plan shall require prior review and approval 
by the Community Development Director or their designee. Consistent with the 
requirements of the CMP, construction disturbances reports shall be submitted 
monthly to provide timely updates on project impacts.
Violations of any portion of the approved Construction Management Plan or other 
applicable construction management requirement may result in the issuance of a 
“Stop Work Order”. (PLANNING)
4
EXCAVATED SOILS – The applicant shall submit a compliance letter from San Mateo 
County Environmental Health Services to the Planning Division subject to the 
satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee. The 
compliance letter shall indicate that site soils have been tested prior to disposal to 
confirm that the concentration of constituents present in site soils do not exceed 
hazardous waste criteria of local, state and federal regulations. If the concentration of 
constituents in the project site soils exceed hazardous waste criteria, the letter shall 
also confirm that the soils will be disposed of in accordance with local, state, and 
federal regulations. (PLANNING)
5
PAYMENT OF OUTSTANDING PLANNING APPLICATION FEES – The applicant shall pay
all outstanding planning application fees. (PLANNING)
6
SACRED LANDS INVENTORY - Prior to issuance of any construction permit, a California 
Historical Resources Information System archaeological records search and a tribal 
cultural records search shall be completed for the project site, at the expense of the 
project applicant.

--- page 270 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 2 of 23

--- page 271 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 3 of 23
7
TRIBAL CULTURAL RECORDS SEARCH - Prior to issuance of any construction permit, a
Sacred Lands Inventory request shall be submitted to the Native American Heritage 
Commission, at the expense of the project applicant. (PLANNING)
8
PHASE I ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT - Pursuant to Government Code Section 
21080.66(c)(1)(A), the development proponent shall complete a Phase I 
environmental assessment, as defined in Section 78090 of the Health and Safety 
Code.
a) If a recognized environmental condition is found, the development proponent 
shall complete a preliminary endangerment assessment, as defined in Section 
78095 of the Health and Safety Code, prepared by an environmental assessor 
to determine the existence of any release of a hazardous substance on the site 
and to determine the potential for exposure of future occupants to significant 
health hazards from any nearby property or activity.
b) If a release of a hazardous substance is found to exist on the site, the release 
shall be removed, or any effects of the release shall be mitigated to levels 
required by current federal and state statutory and regulatory standards 
before the local government issues a certificate of occupancy.
c) If a potential for exposure to significant hazards from surrounding properties 
or activities is found to exist, the effects of the potential exposure shall be 
mitigated to levels required by current federal and state statutory and 
regulatory standards before the local government issues a certificate of 
occupancy. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
9
ADDRESS  ASSIGNMENT  –  The  applicant  shall  submit  an  address  assignment
application for the proposed Dwelling Units subject to the review and approval by the 
Building Division. The Address Assignment Form is available at: 
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/DocumentCenter/View/98206/CDD-Address-
Assignment-Application-Form (BUILDING)
10
APPLICABLE BUILDING STANDARDS AND LOCAL CODES – All building permit plans 
shall demonstrate compliance with the applicable California Building Standards Codes 
and local amendments as adopted by the Building Division at the time of filing the 
building permit application. (BUILDING)
11
BAAQMD JOB NUMBER –The applicant shall submit an asbestos demolition and 
renovation notification job number (J#) from Bay Area Air Quality Management

--- page 272 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 3 of 23

--- page 273 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 4 of 23
District. (BAAQMD). (BUILDING)
12
DEMOLITION – A building permit for demolition shall be issued in accordance with 
Section 23.06.100 of the San Mateo Municipal Code, to the satisfaction of the 
Building Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
13
SITE SURVEY – The applicant shall provide a full site survey stamped and signed by a 
Land Surveyor licensed by the State of California. The survey shall include, but not be 
limited to: location and dimensions of property lines, location of streets and 
easements, existing buildings, topographic contour lines, trees/landscape, and other 
structures. (BUILDING)
14
SOILS REPORT AND INVESTIGATION LETTER – The applicant shall submit a stamped, 
signed, and dated soils investigation report containing design recommendations and 
integrate recommendations into the plans as-appropriate, to the satisfaction of the 
Building Official or his/her designee. The applicant shall also submit a letter stamped 
and signed by the Geotechnical engineer of-record stating the plans and 
specifications substantially conform to the recommendations in the soil report, 
subject to the satisfaction of the Building Official or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
15
FIRE FLOW – The applicant shall provide fire flow information to the Fire Plan
Checker, which is subject to the review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her 
designee. (FIRE)
16
WATER SUPPLY – All city/district owned water systems and on-site water systems 
shall be looped with two points of connection to the satisfaction of the City Engineer 
or his/her designee. The systems shall meet the requirements of State Department of 
Health Services, City’s Public Works Department, and the Fire Marshal. The water 
supply information shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal or his/her designee for 
review and approval. (FIRE)
Public Works Department (PA)
17
ENCROACHMENT PERMITS, BONDS, AND INSURANCE – The applicant shall obtain an
encroachment permit, posting the required bonds and insurance, and provide a one
(1) year warranty for all work to be done in the City's right of way or easements prior 
to any work being done. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 274 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 4 of 23

--- page 275 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 5 of 23
18
NOTICE OF INTENT – For construction activities that will disturb one (1) acre or more,
the project applicant shall obtain coverage under the General Construction Activity 
Storm Permit (General Construction Permit) issued by the State Water Resources 
Control Board (SWRCB) for stormwater discharges associated with construction 
activity. To obtain coverage, the project applicant shall file a Notice of Intent (NOI) 
with the State Water Resources Control Board to obtain coverage under the State 
General Construction Activity NPDES Permit. Proof of permit shall be provided to the 
Public Works Department along with a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan 
(SWPPP) prepared by a qualified SWPPP designer prior to issuance of the STOPPP 
Construction permit. (PUBLIC WORKS)
19
PERMITS REQUIRED BY OTHER AGENCIES – The applicant is hereby informed that 
permits may be required by one (1) or more of the following: Corps of Engineers, Bay 
Conservation and Development Commission, Fish and Wildlife, and/or the State Lands 
Commission. If project is within jurisdiction of any of these agencies, verification of 
permit or waiver of permit shall be given to the Public Works Department prior to 
issuance of any required City permits. If the City is required to be a party to the 
permit application and a fee is required, the applicant shall reimburse the City for its 
cost. (PUBLIC WORKS)
CDD Arborist (PA)
20
LANDSCAPE UNIT IN LIEU FEES - Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the
applicant shall pay in-lieu fees for existing trees to be removed as evaluated in the 
Tree Evaluation Schedule and Required Tree Planting form during the planning 
application. Existing trees to be removed shall be replaced on-site, or a fee shall be 
paid in lieu of planting trees at the rate established in the City’s adopted 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule.
21
TREE PROTECTION VERIFICATION LETTER – To verify that all tree protection measures 
are properly implemented, the applicant shall submit a tree protection verification 
letter prepared by the project arborist to the Building Division that includes 
photographs showing the tree protection installed. The letter shall also include a 
schedule of future inspections by the Project Arborist. The verification letter is subject 
to the review and satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her 
designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a BUILDING PERMIT FOR THE 
SUPERSTRUCTURE.
Planning Division (PA)

--- page 276 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 5 of 23

--- page 277 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 6 of 23
22
BELOW MARKET RATE (BMR) AGREEMENT – In accordance with Municipal Code
Section 27.16.050 and accompanying BMR Guidelines (Resolution No. 72 – 2025), the 
applicant shall execute and record a Below Market-Rate Housing Agreement. 
(PLANNING)
23
INCLUSIONARY IN-LIEU FEE PAYMENT – In compliance with Municipal Code Section
27.16.050 and accompanying BMR Guidelines (Resolution No. 72 – 2025), the 
applicant shall pay an Inclusionary In-Lieu Fee equivalent to .4 for-sale units. The 
Inclusionary In-Lieu Fee shall be at the rate established in the City’s adopted 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule. (PLANNING)
24
CHILD CARE DEVELOPMENT FEE –The applicant shall pay a Child Care Development 
Fee subject to the rate established in the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee 
Schedule. (PLANNING)
25
ART IN PUBLIC PLACES – The applicant shall meet all requirements of SMMC Section
23.60 for art in public places by providing artwork approved by the Civic Arts 
Commission in a manner satisfactory to the Community Development Director, 
and/or by paying an in lieu fee to the Art in Public Places Fund as described in SMMC 
Section 23.60.060 subject to the rate established in the City’s adopted 
Comprehensive Fee Schedule. (PLANNING)
26
EXTERIOR ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS - In compliance with General Plan Policy N 1.3, the 
applicant shall provide an acoustical analysis prepared by a qualified acoustical 
consultant for new multifamily common open space for residents that have an 
exterior noise level of 60 dBA (Ldn) or above, as shown on Figure N-2 of the General 
Plan. The applicant shall Incorporate necessary mitigation measures into residential 
project design to minimize common open space noise levels. Maximum exterior noise 
should not exceed 65 dBA (Ldn) for residential uses. (PLANNING)
27
INTERIOR ACOUSTICAL ANALYSIS – In compliance with General Plan Policy N 1.2, the 
applicant shall provide an acoustical analysis prepared by a qualified acoustical 
consultant which shall contain recommendations to ensure the building’s interior 
noise levels comply with the levels established in the General Plan or Building Code, 
whichever is more restrictive, subject to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
28
LOCATION AND SCREENING OF ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES AND EQUIPMENT– All
screening for any ground-level utilities, equipment, and other project related

--- page 278 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 6 of 23

--- page 279 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 7 of 23
operational/utility devices shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial
conformance with the approved planning application. All above ground utilities and 
equipment shall be screened with landscaping, fencing, and/or other solid materials 
to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, 
unless a waiver from such screening has been approved pursuant to the State Density 
Bonus Law. (PLANNING)
29
SCREENING OF ROOFTOP MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT – All rooftop mechanical 
equipment shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance 
with the approved planning application. All equipment shall be painted and/or 
screened by a solid enclosure or parapet wall with materials compatible with the 
building design subject to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director, 
or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
30
SIGNAGE – Preliminary signage shown in the approved planning application plans are 
for information only. Final signage shall be reviewed and approved in accordance 
with Title 25 of the Municipal Code. (PLANNING)
31
TRASH AND RECYCLING ENCLOSURES – All above-grade trash and recycling enclosures 
shall be shown on the building permit plans in substantial conformance with the 
approved planning application and be screened to the satisfaction of the Community 
Development Director, or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
32
LANDSCAPE SOIL TESTING – The applicant shall submit a soils report prepared by a 
Soil Testing Laboratory for review and approval by the Planning Division. The report 
shall analyze the existing soil conditions and recommend any corrective action or soil 
amendment necessary to make the soil suitable to support the proposed 
plantings. Any proposed corrective action or soil amendments shall be incorporated 
into the landscape plans to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director 
or his/her designee. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
33
CALGREEN – The building permit plans shall incorporate the applicable CALGreen
Checklist noting the green building measures the project will incorporate in 
accordance with the California Green Building Standards Code and City of San Mateo 
Reach Codes subject to the review and approval by the Building Official, or his/her 
designee. Current City of San Mateo CALGreen checklists are located on Building 
Division webpage or will be provided by Community Development Department staff, 
if requested. (BUILDING)

--- page 280 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 7 of 23

--- page 281 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 8 of 23
34
WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING – The applicant shall submit a completed
Water Conservation in Landscaping Screening Form. If the screening form indicates 
the project is subject to the Water Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance pursuant 
to Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, additional documentation prescribed by the 
screening form shall also be included with the site plan. City of San Mateo Water 
Conservation in Landscaping forms are located on Building Division webpage. The 
applicant shall submit the required landscape documentation package with building 
permit application subject to the review and satisfaction of the Building Official, or 
his/her designee. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
35
CODE CONFORMANCE – The applicant shall indicate on all building permit plans that
all construction shall meet current code standards at the time of building permit 
submittal. The building permit plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire 
Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)
36
FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD – The plans shall show a Fire Apparatus Access Road 
serving each structure on the property. Each access road shall have a minimum 24-
foot unobstructed linear width (as required by Appendix D of the Fire Code), and 
provide an unobstructed height of no less than 13 feet, 6 inches subject to the review 
and approval Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)
37
FIRE DEPARTMENT SUBMITTALS – The applicant shall submit all plans involving fire 
systems (including but not limited to fire sprinklers, fire hydrants, and fire alarms) in 
conjunction with the superstructure building permit plans to the Fire Department. 
The plans are subject to review and approval by the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. 
(FIRE)
38
REMOTE POWER DISCONNECT – The plans shall show a key switch/shunt trip to 
disconnect the building electrical power and/or solar photovoltaic system by Fire 
Department personnel. The key switch/shunt trip location(s) shall be subject to the 
review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)
Parks and Recreation Department (PA)
39
PARK IN-LIEU/IMPACT FEES – The applicant shall pay a park impact fee (SMMC
Section 13.05.070) or a fee in-lieu of dedication of lands for park and recreation 
purposes (park in-lieu fee) (SMMC Chapter 26.64). The final fee shall be determined 
and paid prior to the issuance of the first superstructure building permit subject to

--- page 282 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 8 of 23

--- page 283 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 9 of 23
the rate established in the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. (PARKS)
Public Works Department (PA)
40
DRAINAGE – The building permit plans show drainage designed into landscaping with
the purpose of reducing volume or improving quality of runoff from the site shall be 
implemented, to the extent feasible, subject to the approval of the Director of Public 
Works or designee. Where necessary, sidewalk drains per City Standard Drawings 
shall be provided to direct the water under the sidewalk and through the curb. No 
increase to the peak discharge shall be permitted downstream. In addition, discharge 
shall conform to any non point source permit issued by the Regional Water Quality 
Control Board. Drainage improvements made on-site shall conform to standard 
engineering practices and shall not allow any site drainage to impact adjacent 
properties. All drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil 
Engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets and 
shall be submitted to the City for review and approval with the project civil plans 
submitted as part of the building permit for the superstructure. Projects that include 
permanent structural controls for stormwater treatment, shall comply with 
requirements of Section C.3 of the Municipal Regional Stormwater Permit for San 
Mateo County (MRP). The O&M (operation and maintenance) procedures for such 
control features shall be submitted for review and approval prior to occupancy and 
specify the owner’s responsibility to ensure their ongoing effective operation and 
maintenance. Such O&M responsibility requirements shall be recorded with the 
County of San Mateo Recorder’s Office. The building permit plans for the 
superstructure shall show drainage. (PUBLIC WORKS)
41
PERMANENT STRUCTURES – The applicant shall locate all project fencing, railing, 
foundations, and other structures of a permanent nature entirely within the project’s 
property and out of the City right-of-way. (PUBLIC WORKS)
42
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS – An Encroachment Permit shall be required for all public 
improvements in the public right-of-way or easements. All public improvements shall 
be completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy.
The developer shall repair or replace all existing improvements not designated for 
removal and all new improvements that are damaged or removed because of 
developer's operations. Developer shall request a walk-through with the Public Works 
Construction Inspector before the start of construction to verify existing conditions.
The applicant shall have improvement plans prepared for all work in the public right

--- page 284 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 9 of 23

--- page 285 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 10 of 23
of way or easements by a licensed civil engineer, whose signed engineer’s stamp shall 
appear on the plans. The improvement plans shall be included in the superstructure 
building permit submittal and substantially conform to the approved planning 
application. Any changes to the improvements shall be approved by the Director of 
Public Works or designee at their sole discretion. All design assumptions and criteria 
shall be submitted. Project specifications shall be included for review. All work shown 
on the improvement plans shall be inspected and approved by Public Works. 
The building permit plans for the superstructure shall show the following public 
improvements in the public right of way:
S GRANT ST – The applicant shall perform a full width 2” grind and RHMA (rubberized 
hot mix asphalt) overlay of S Grant Street along the project frontage with 6” base 
repairs as needed. Existing rubber speed humps will need to be replaced with new 
rubber speed humps in kind. The applicant shall remove and replace the existing 
sidewalk with new sidewalk and landscaping in substantial conformance with the 
approved Tentative Map.
S AMPHLETT DR – The applicant shall remove and replace the existing sidewalk with 
new sidewalk and landscaping in substantial conformance with the approved 
Tentative Map. .
BAYSHORE COMMONS TIA - Per the approved Bayshore Commons TIA (SF25-1403), 
prepared by Fehr & Peers, dated January 9, 2025, the following recommendations are 
required for this project:
1) Curb extensions extending into Grant Street shall be installed at the intersection 
of S Grant Street and Betty Lane. The curb extensions shall be added to all four 
corners of the intersection. The Project driveway shall be incorporated into a 
single curb extension spanning the northeast corner to the southeast corner of 
Grant.
2) Directional Curb Ramps shall be installed at the intersection of S Grant Street 
and Betty Lane for all corners.
3) High visibility crosswalks shall be installed for all three legs of the intersection at 
South Grant Street and Betty Lane to improve pedestrian visibility.

--- page 286 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 10 of 23

--- page 287 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 11 of 23
4) Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacons (RRFB) shall be installed to both crosswalks 
across South Grant Street.
5) Advanced STOP bar on Betty Lane shall be installed.
STREET MARKINGS – The applicant shall install necessary street markings of a 
material and design approved by the Director of Public Works or designee and replace 
any that are damaged during construction, including the Bike Boulevard striping along 
S Grant St. These include but are not limited to all pavement markings, painted curbs 
and handicap markings. All permanent pavement markings shall be thermoplastic. 
Color and location of painted curbs shall be shown on the plans and subject to 
approval by the Director of Public Works or designee. Any existing painted curb or 
pavement markings no longer required shall be removed by grinding if thermoplastic, 
sand blasting if in paint. Once installed, the applicant shall coordinate with City crews 
to mark any red curb within the proposed City right-of-way with a City seal. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
DRIVEWAY APPROACHES – The applicant shall install City Standard driveway 
approaches   as   shown   on   the   approved   plans.   (PUBLIC   WORKS)
SANITARY & STORM MANHOLES – The applicant shall install standard sanitary and 
storm manholes per approved plans and in accordance with City Standard Drawings 
for work within the public right of way or on City-owned infrastructure. (PUBLIC 
WORKS)
STORM WATER CATCH BASINS – The applicant shall install standard storm water 
catch basins, per approved plans and in accordance with City Standard Drawings for 
work   within   the   public   right   of   way.
(PUBLIC   WORKS)
GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE – In accordance with SMMC Chapter 7.39, the applicant 
shall install and maintain green infrastructure (GI) improvements. The improvements 
shall be in accordance with the guidance and specifications provided by San Mateo 
Countywide Water Pollution Prevention Program or City of San Mateo GI Plan design 
and shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or designee or designee. 
Drainage capacity calculations shall be performed by a licensed Civil Engineer, whose 
signed Engineer’s stamp shall appear on the calculations sheets, and shall be 
submitted to the City for review and approval with the project superstructure plans. 
GI improvements shall be maintained by the adjacent property owner and included in 
the stormwater treatment O&M (operation and maintenance) agreement that is 
recorded with the County of San Mateo Recorder’s Office. (PUBLIC WORKS)

--- page 288 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 11 of 23

--- page 289 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 12 of 23
STREET LIGHT(S) AND INFRASTRUCTURE – A new photometric analysis shall be
prepared by the applicant for review and approval by the Director of Public Works or 
designee and the lighting shall be furnished and installed in accordance with the 
photometric analysis as approved. The applicant shall furnish and install necessary 
infrastructure in accordance with the photometric analysis prepared as part of the 
approved building permit. The streetlight and electrical plans shall show all electrical 
conduits, pull boxes, service connections, fuse holders, bus fuses and all other 
electrical components necessary to construct the improvements. The plans shall be 
submitted as part of the Building Permit for the Superstructure. (PUBLIC WORKS)
43
STORM AND SANITARY SEWER – The applicant shall perform an initial inspection (via 
remote TV camera) of the mainline storm and sanitary sewer from the nearest 
upstream structure to the nearest downstream structure of the project’s point of 
connections. During the initial inspection, any damage must be reported to the 
Department of Public Works. The applicant shall perform the same inspection once 
construction is completed. Damage in result of this project’s construction shall be 
repaired by the applicant at their expense. (PUBLIC WORKS)
44
STORM DRAIN INLETS AND WATERWAYS – The building permit plans shall show the 
marking of the words “No Dumping! Flows to Bay,” or equivalent, on all storm inlets 
surrounding and within the project site using methods approved by the City 
standards, consistent with the San Mateo Countywide Water Pollution Prevention 
Program’s C.3 requirements (PUBLIC WORKS)
45
TRASH CAPTURE DEVICES – The building permits shall show installation of trash 
capture devices in storm drain systems that lead directly to the off-site storm drain 
system or outfall. Devices shall be approved by the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee. Trash capture devices are required on site consistent with the 
State Water Resources Control Board definition of Full Capture System. All on-site 
trash capture devices shall be cleaned routinely and maintained by the Owner per the 
Stormwater Treatment Facilities Maintenance Agreement. The building permit plans 
for the superstructure shall show trash capture devices. (PUBLIC WORKS)
46
TRIANGULAR AREA OF VISIBILITY – The building permit plans for the superstructure 
shall show that the installation of landscaping and permanent structures located 
within the 10' triangular area of visibility at the driveway, and 45’ triangular area of 
visibility at any project corner meets the requirements of a minimum vertical 
clearance of 7', and/or are less than 3' in height. This includes all PG&E above ground

--- page 290 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 12 of 23

--- page 291 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 13 of 23
structures and other utility facilities. (PUBLIC WORKS)
47
UNDERGROUND UTILITIES – The building permit plans for the superstructure shall 
show the installation of all new, and upgraded, utility services, including telephone, 
electric power, and other communications lines underground to the building in 
accordance with City of San Mateo Municipal Code 26.32.020. Transformers and 
switch gear cabinets shall be placed on private property or within a utility easement. 
(PUBLIC WORKS)
48
UTILITIES – Utility plans shall be submitted as part of the building permit plans for the 
superstructure and shall show appropriate line types and labels to identify different 
type of utilities and pipe sizes. Clearly identify both public and private utilities.
The Developer shall provide joint trench composite plans for the underground 
electrical, gas, telephone, cable television, and communication conduits and cables 
including the size, location and details of all trenches, locations of building utility 
service stubs and meters and placements or arrangements of junction structures.
Sanitary sewer laterals and/or water meters located in driveways shall have traffic 
rated boxes and lids.
Developer is required to confirm the location of existing utility lines along the project 
frontage by potholing. Prior to any potholing, developer shall obtain an 
encroachment permit and submit a pothole plan for City review and approval. 
Developer shall provide the pothole results to the Director of Public Works or 
designee or designee prior to final design. Any utility conflicts shall be the 
responsibility of the developer to rectify. (PUBLIC WORKS)
49
WASTEWATER CAPACITY CHARGE – A wastewater capacity charge, as established by 
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.38.065, is imposed on all new development to 
recover a proportionate share of costs for existing and future wastewater system 
facilities and assets from new or expanded connections to City wastewater systems. 
The applicable wastewater capacity charge is determined by use, wastewater flow, 
and wastewater strength loadings and the amount shall be established by City Council 
resolution. The fee shall be collected by the Public Works Department and paid prior 
to issuance of the first superstructure building permit. The fee shall be based on the 
City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. (PUBLIC WORKS)
50
FINAL MAP – The applicant shall have a final map or multiple final maps, prepared by

--- page 292 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 13 of 23

--- page 293 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 14 of 23
a person authorized to practice land surveying in California, delineating all parcels
created or deleted and all changes in lot lines in conformance with San Mateo 
Municipal  Code  Chapter  26.52  and  Government  Code  Section  66456.1.
The final subdivision map(s) shall be approved by the Department of Public Works 
prior to City Council approval and recorded by the County Recorder’s Office. Final 
maps shall be recorded prior to issuance of the Site Development Permit or first 
building permit for the corresponding development parcel. A map guarantee shall be 
submitted to the City, by the applicant’s title company, prior to release of the map to 
the title company for recordation.
Prior to the City’s release of the final map to the title company, the applicant may, at 
the discretion of the Director of Public Works designee, be required to submit to the 
City an electronic copy of the map in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the 
City at the time of recordation. It is the applicant's responsibility to check with their 
title company and the County Recorder’s Office to determine the time necessary to 
have the map recorded after City approval. (PUBLIC WORKS)
51
GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLANS – All grading and drainage plans shall identify the 
vertical elevation datum, date of survey, and surveyor. Grading plans shall show 
existing topo and features at least 50’ beyond the project boundary. Plan shall show 
existing topography, label contour elevations, drainage patterns, flow lines, slopes, 
and all other property encumbrances. (PUBLIC WORKS)
52
GRADING DEPOSITS – Prior to permit issuance, the Applicant shall provide refundable 
grading security deposit funds per the City’s adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. 
The applicant shall be required to increase the deposit, if revisions to the approved 
plans increase the proposed earthwork activities. After substantial completion and 
stabilization of the site, to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, the City will refund 
any portion of the deposit not utilized. (PUBLIC WORKS)
53
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT FOR GRADING – The applicant shall obtain a site 
development permit from the Public Works Department for grading exceeding a 
volume of 550 cubic yards, in accordance with requirements of the City's Site 
Development Code found in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.40. A site grading 
and drainage plan prepared by a registered Civil Engineer with all supporting data, 
including hydraulic calculations, shall be submitted to Public Works for review with
the first building permit application. A letter from the Civil Engineer shall be 
submitted with the plans indicating that the grading and drainage are in accordance

--- page 294 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 14 of 23

--- page 295 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 15 of 23
with the Preliminary Geotechnical Investigation report by Langan, dated April 11,
2025.
A non-refundable fee shall be submitted by the applicant based upon the City’s 
adopted Comprehensive Fee Schedule. Public Works plan checking of the site grading 
and drainage plans submitted with the first building permit plans cannot proceed 
until fees are paid. (PUBLIC WORKS)
CDD Arborist (PA)
54
STREET TREES – The landscape plans shall specify installation of street trees in
accordance with the City of San Mateo Street Tree Master Plan unless a waiver has 
been approved pursuant to the State Density Bonus Law. In accordance with 
Municipal Code Section 27.71.120(a)(1), 24-inch box shall be the minimum size for 
street trees planted along public streets and shall include tree grates and root barriers 
as specified by the City Standard Drawings 3-1-847 and 3-1-933. The landscape plans 
shall be subject to the review and approval of the Community Development Director, 
or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be met prior to RELEASE OF UTILITIES, FINAL INSPECTION, ISSUANCE 
OF A TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, or ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY,
whichever occurs first.
Planning Division (PA)
55
ACOUSTICAL COMPLIANCE LETTER – The applicant shall submit an acoustical
compliance letter to the Project Planner written and signed by the project acoustical 
consultant indicating all recommendations incorporated into the project to reach 
compliance with the noise limits listed in Tables N-1 of the Noise Element and in 
compliance with Policies N 1.2 and N 1.3 of the General Plan. This letter shall 
be submitted prior to scheduling the Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING)
56
FINANCIAL SECURITIES FOR ONSITE PRIVATE LANDSCAPING  – The applicant shall
submit a cost estimate and financial securities in a form and amount sufficient to 
ensure the installation of all approved onsite private landscape improvements 
including all new trees, to the satisfaction of the Community Development Director or 
his/her designee. The Project Planner shall conduct and pass a follow-up inspection in 
accordance with Section 27.71.060 of the Municipal Code in order to reclaim the 
financial securities after all landscaping has sustained a Plant Establishment 
Maintenance Period of three consecutive growing season months (March through
October). (PLANNING)

--- page 296 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 15 of 23

--- page 297 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 16 of 23
57
LANDSCAPE  VERIFICATION  LETTER  –  The  applicant  shall  submit  a  landscape
verification letter to the Project Planner written, signed, and stamped by the project 
landscape architect indicating that all on-site and off-site landscape improvements 
(including on-site trees, street trees, shrubs, and irrigation systems) have been 
installed in compliance with the approved landscape plans. This letter shall 
be submitted prior to scheduling the Planning Final Inspection. (PLANNING)
58
PLANNING FINAL INSPECTION – Upon completion of all construction and landscaping, 
the applicant shall request the Project Planner conduct a Planning Final 
inspection for verification of compliance with all outstanding conditions of approval. 
The applicant shall contact the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a 
minimum of 72 hours in advance of the requested inspection. (PLANNING)
59
LANDSCAPING AGREEMENT – The applicant shall provide proof of an agreement with 
a licensed landscape contractor or General Contractor for the duration of the 
project’s Plant Establishment Maintenance Period, which consists of three (3) growing 
season  months  (March  through  October)  for  all  proposed  landscaped 
areas. (PLANNING)
Building Division (PA)
60
WATER CONSERVATION IN LANDSCAPING –In accordance with the City’s Water
Conservation in Landscaping Ordinance in Municipal Code Section 23.72.030, a 
licensed landscape architect, a licensed landscape contractor, or a certified irrigation 
designer shall complete the “Certification of Completion” in the City of San Mateo 
Water Conservation in Landscaping form. Upon completion of the work, the 
certification of completion shall be submitted to the City’s Building Inspector subject 
to the review and approval of the Building Official, or his/her designee. (BUILDING)
Fire Department (PA)
61
FIRE HYDRANTS – The applicant shall install the approved number of public/private
fire hydrant(s) spaced as per the Fire Department’s local Ordinance. All fire hydrants 
used for fire flow for the project site shall be upgraded to a Clow model 960 or 
equivalent consisting of (2) 2-½ inch and (1) 4-½ inch outlets. Each hydrant shall be 
capable of providing a minimum fire flow of 1500 gpm at 20 psi residual pressure. 
Water supply for fire protection is required to be installed in accordance with water 
purveyor’s specifications. The water supply shall be tested, flushed and approved 
operable prior to any combustible construction materials being placed on the site. 
Staged construction shall insure that the necessary water supply is maintained from 
stage to stage in the construction planning. The letter shall be submitted to the Fire

--- page 298 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 16 of 23

--- page 299 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 17 of 23
Marshal or his/her designee for review and approval prior to the Fire Final Inspection.
(FIRE)
Public Works Department (PA)
62
RECORD DRAWINGS – The applicant shall submit one full set of original record
drawings and construction specifications for all off-site improvements to the 
Department of Public Works. All underground facilities shall be shown on the record 
drawings as constructed in the field. The applicant shall also provide the City with an 
electronic copy of the as-builts in PDF and the AutoCAD Version being used by the 
City at the time of completion of the work. (PUBLIC WORKS)
63
RESTORATION OF ROADWAY – If certain sections of the streets (Grant & Amphlett 
only) abutting the property have been classified as being in a failed condition or a 
Pavement Condition Index (PCI) of 50 or below, the applicant shall reconstruct the 
certain failing street sections. Limits of the roadway repair shall be subject to the 
review and approval of the Director of Public Works or designee. (PUBLIC WORKS)
64
STORM WATER TREATMENT FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT – The applicant
shall execute a maintenance agreement with the City’s Director of Public Works or 
designee as specified in San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39 of the Stormwater 
Management and Discharge Control ordinance and the San Mateo Countywide Water 
Pollution Prevention Program C.3 Program Technical Guidance. The agreement shall 
outline the continuous operation and maintenance (O&M) plan for the permanent 
storm water treatment facilities including irrigation and landscape maintenance of 
Green Infrastructure elements constructed in the public right-of-way and shall be 
recorded with the County Recorder’s Office. This agreement shall be executed prior 
to the first occupancy of the building. (PUBLIC WORKS)
CDD Arborist (PA)
65
FINAL ARBORIST REPORT – The Project Arborist shall perform a final site inspection
and submit a final arborist report to the Building Division. At minimum, the final 
arborist report shall confirm that the approved tree protection measures were 
implemented and shall assess the condition of Protected Tree(s). Any damage to 
existing Protected Tree(s) shall be subject to replacement and/or penalties in 
accordance with Municipal Code Section 13.40.160 subject to the satisfaction of the 
Community Development Director, or his/her designee. (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be met prior to the approval of the FINAL MAP or PARCEL MAP.
Public Works Department (PA)

--- page 300 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 17 of 23

--- page 301 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 18 of 23
66
CONDITIONS, COVENANTS, AND RESTRICTIONS (CC&R's) - The applicant shall obtain
the City Attorney's approval of the Conditions, Covenants, and Restrictions governing 
the subdivision for consistency with these Conditions of Approval prior to recordation 
of final map. (PUBLIC WORKS)
67
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENT – If the applicant wishes to have the final 
project map approved prior to the completion of the project’s public improvements, 
the applicant shall enter into a subdivision improvement agreement with the City per 
Gov. Code Section 66462(a) and shall arrange to provide security for the remaining 
public improvements to be completed. The agreement will be forwarded to the City 
Council for approval with the final map. (PUBLIC WORKS)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES DURING THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE 
OF THE PROJECT.
Planning Division (PA)
68
FRAME/PLANNING ROUGH INSPECTION – Upon completion of all framing and prior to
the installation of exterior sheathing and windows, the applicant shall request the 
Project Planner conduct a Rough Frame inspection to verify items including, but not 
limited to, window locations, window sizes, and massing. The applicant shall contact 
the Project Planner to schedule each inspection a minimum of 72 hours in advance of 
the requested inspection. (PLANNING)
69
PALEONTOLOGICAL RESOURCES – In the event of the discovery of paleontological 
resources (fossils) whether on-site or in the public right-of-way, the applicant shall 
halt all construction activities within 50 feet of the discovery, notify the Planning 
Manager and/or Project Planner, and retain a qualified paleontologist to determine 
the significance of the discovery. The paleontologist shall evaluate the uniqueness of 
the find, prepare a written report documenting the find and recommending further 
courses of action, and submit a summary of findings to the Project Planner. The 
applicant shall incorporate the recommendations of the paleontologist when 
continuing construction. (PLANNING)
Fire Department (PA)
70
ADDRESS NUMBERS – The applicant shall post temporary address numbers on each
building at the project site that must be easily visible from the street or fire access 
road. (FIRE)
71
BARRICADES ACROSS EMERGENCY ACCESS ROADS – Prior to the installation or use of 
barricades,  fences,  or  gates  across  emergency  vehicle  access  roads  during

--- page 302 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 18 of 23

--- page 303 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 19 of 23
construction, the applicant submit plans to the Fire Plan Checker subject to the
review and approval of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee. (FIRE)
72
DEMOLITION – The applicant shall comply with the California Fire Code Chapter 33 
during all phases of construction of the project. (FIRE)
73
EGRESS
–
The
applicant
shall
maintain
required
egress
for
all
adjacent 
buildings/properties. (FIRE)
74
STANDPIPES – For projects that require standpipes by California Fire Code Section 
905.3.1, the applicant shall provide not less than one standpipe for use during 
construction or demolition. (FIRE)
Public Works Department (PA)
75
ARCHITECTURAL  COPPER  –  Per  the  San  Mateo  Countywide  Water  Pollution
Prevention Program’s requirements, the applicant shall follow the specific best 
management practices for the installation of the Architectural Copper. For detailed 
information please distribute the flyer to all construction personnel involved in the 
fabrication and installation of the Architectural Copper that is located at: 
https://www.flowstobay.org/preventing-stormwater-pollution/with-new-
redevelopment/construction-best-practices/ (PUBLIC WORKS/BUILDING)
CDD Arborist (PA)
76
PROJECT ARBORIST INSPECTIONS – The Project Arborist shall submit a report to the
Building Division within five business days after each of his/her inspection 
documenting the condition of trees, protection measures changes or adjustments, 
and/or any damages to Protected trees. (CDD ARBORIST)
77
TREE PROTECTION MEASURES – All approved tree protection measures shall remain 
in place and be properly maintained during all phases of construction. The applicant 
or contractor shall notify the Project Arborist in advance when construction 
operations are to be performed within the Tree Protection Zone of protected trees. 
(e.g. trenching, excavation, grade changes, etc.) Adjustment of Tree Protection 
Measures requires approval from the City Arborist. (CDD ARBORIST)
The following conditions shall be complied with AT ALL TIMES that the project permitted by this 
planning application occupies the premises.
Planning Division (PA)
78
APPROVED PLANNING APPLICATION CONFORMANCE AT ALL TIMES – All physical

--- page 304 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 19 of 23

--- page 305 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 20 of 23
improvements, uses, and operational requirements authorized by the approved
planning application shall, at all times that the use permitted by this planning 
application occupies the premises, substantially conform with the approved planning 
application. This includes but is not limited to plans, materials, project description, 
and other items submitted as part of the approved planning application. Any 
proposed modifications to the approved planning application shall be reviewed and 
approved by the Community Development Director, or his/her designee, prior to 
construction of the proposed modifications. The Community Development Director, 
or his/her designee shall determine whether the proposed modifications substantially 
conform with the approved planning application, or whether a planning application 
modification is required to be submitted to permit the proposed modifications, as 
required by Municipal Code Section 27.08.080 Modifications. (PLANNING)
79
GENERAL PLAN COMPLIANCE – Unless otherwise approved through the entitlement 
process, the project shall be designed, constructed, and operated in a manner that is 
consistent with all applicable goals, policies, land use designations, and development 
standards of the City’s adopted General Plan 2040 unless otherwise waived under the 
State Density Bonus Law. (PLANNING)
80
ONGOING LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE – All landscaped areas shall be maintained free 
of litter, debris and weeds. All plantings shall be permanently maintained in a healthy 
growing condition and, whenever necessary, replaced with equivalent plant materials 
to ensure continued conformance with approved plans. (PLANNING)
81
The following conditions are enforceable against the applicant by the City and 
the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe through an enforceable agreement per AB 130:
a) If any human remains, burials, or artifacts are exposed during construction 
grading and/or excavation whether on-site or off-site, the applicant shall halt 
all construction activities within 50 feet of the find, and a Professional 
Archaeologist  shall  provide  identification,  evaluation,  and 
further recommendations consistent with City of San Mateo requirements.
b) Prior to the issuance of any demolition, grading or building permit involving 
ground-disturbing activities (whichever occurs first), the project applicant 
shall hire a qualified Native American Tribal Monitor to develop a Worker’s 
Environmental Awareness Program (WEAP) to train the construction crew on 
the legal requirements for the treatment of cultural resources as well as 
procedures to follow in the event of a discovery of human remains, burials, or

--- page 306 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 20 of 23

--- page 307 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 21 of 23
artifacts. This training program shall be given to the crew before ground
disturbing work commences and shall include handouts to be given to new
workers.
c) The applicant shall note on all construction plans that require ground 
disturbing activities that there is a potential for exposing buried cultural 
resources or artifacts, including Native American ancestral burials.
82
TRIBAL MONITOR - The project shall include tribal monitoring during all ground-
disturbing activities, as follows:
a) One monitor as designated by the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe shall be present 
during all ground-disturbing activities and for all mechanical ground-
disturbing/subsurface excavations that have the potential to affect native soils 
that could potentially contain Tribal cultural deposits within the entire 
construction project area, including off-site related improvements.
b) The tribal monitor shall comply with applicant’s site access and workplace 
safety requirements.
c) The applicant shall compensate the tribal monitor at a rate provided in 
Muwekma Ohlone Tribe rate sheet, determined in good faith, that aligns with 
customary compensation for cultural resource monitoring, taking into 
account factors such as the scope and duration of the project.
83
TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES - Tribal cultural resources shall be avoided 
where feasible, in accordance with subdivision (a) of Public Resources Code Section 
21084.3. In furtherance of this requirement, where feasible, the project applicant 
shall provide deference to tribal preferences regarding access to spiritual, ceremonial, 
and burial sites, and incorporate tribal traditional knowledge in the protection and 
sustainable use of tribal cultural resources and landscapes.
84
DOCUMENTATION
OF
TRIBAL
CULTURAL
RESOURCES
-
All
treatment
and
documentation of tribal cultural resources shall be conducted in a culturally
appropriate manner, as required by AB 130.
85
COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS FOR DISCOVERY OF HUMAN REMAINS - The
project shall comply with Section 7050.5 of the Health and Safety Code and Public 
Resources Code Section 5097.98, including immediate work stoppage upon discovery 
of human remains or burial grounds, and treatment in accordance with applicable law
and in consultation with the affected California Native American tribe. (PLANNING)

--- page 308 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 21 of 23

--- page 309 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 22 of 23
86
TRIBAL ECOLOGICAL KNOWLEDGE - An application of tribal ecological knowledge into
any habitat restoration efforts shall be undertaken by the project proponent as 
applicable to the specific environmental context and conditions of the project. 
(PLANNING)
87
RESIDENTIAL UNITS WITHIN 500 FEET OF A FREEWAY - The following shall apply to
any building containing residential units within 500 feet of a freeway:
1. The building shall have a centralized heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning 
system.
2. The outdoor air intakes for the heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning
system shall face away from the freeway.
3. The building shall provide air filtration media for outside and return air that
provides a minimum efficiency reporting value of 16.
4. The air filtration media shall be replaced at the manufacturer’s designated
interval.
5. The building shall not have any balconies facing the freeway. (PLANNING)
Police Department (PA)
88
BUILDING SECURITY PLAN CODE COMPLIANCE – The building permit plan shall comply
with the City Building Security Code (San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 23.54). 
(POLICE)
89
SITE LIGHTING STANDARDS – Exterior security lighting in compliance with the Building 
Security Code “Exterior Security Lighting” (San Mateo Municipal Code Section 
23.54.060) shall be provided and maintained at all times that the use permitted by 
this planning application occupies the premises. (POLICE)
Public Works Department (PA)
90
POST CONSTRUCTION BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) – In accordance with
the City’s Storm Water Management and Discharge Control Rules and Regulations, 
San Mateo Municipal Code Chapter 7.39, and the San Mateo Countywide Stormwater 
Management Plan (SWMP) by reference, the applicant shall:
a.
Owner/occupant shall inspect private stormwater treatment devices and GI 
features in the public right-of-way at least two (2) times per year and sweep 
parking lots immediately prior to and once during the storm season.
b.
The applicant shall pay a fee on a yearly basis for cost associated with, but not 
limited to, City inspection of the private stormwater treatment facilities, 
emergency maintenance needed to protect public health or watercourses, and
facility replacement or repair in the event that the treatment facility is no

--- page 310 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 22 of 23

--- page 311 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 23 of 23
longer able to meet performance standards or has deteriorated. The fee shall
be based upon the Comprehensive Fee Schedule, established by the City 
Council, in effect at the time.
c.
Label new and redeveloped storm drain inlets with the phrase “No Dumping – 
Drains to Bay” plaques to alert the public to the destination of storm water 
and to prevent direct discharge of pollutants into the storm drain. Template 
ordering information is available from the Department of Public Works.
d.
All process equipment, oils fuels, solvents, coolants, fertilizers, pesticides, and 
similar chemical products, as well as petroleum based wastes, tallow, and 
grease planned for storage outdoors shall be stored in covered containers at 
all times. (PUBLIC WORKS)
City Attorney (PA)
91
INDEMNIFICATION – The applicant will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City
of San Mateo, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents from and 
against any costs, claims, or liabilities arising out of the approval of this planning 
application, including, without limitation, any award of attorney fees that might result 
from third party challenge. If applicant is required to defend the City, the City shall
retain the right to select the counsel who shall defend the City. (CITY ATTORNEY)

--- page 312 ---
PA-2025-029, 1650 S AMPHLETT BLVD., SPAR + SDPA + VTM
As approved on 
 
Page 23 of 23

--- page 313 ---
EXHIBIT B
SUMMARY OF PROJECT WAIVERS
The waivers to the following standards have been identiﬁed, to be applied pursuant to State Density Bonus
Law:
1)
Landscape Buﬀer – San Mateo Municipal Code (“SMMC”) Section 27.48.100 requires landscape 
buﬀers equal to half the building height for project, or 15 feet, whichever is greater, within the E2 
zoning district that are contiguous to a residential district. The project proposed to reduce 
required 18’-6” buﬀer to 15’ through a waiver.
2)
Street Trees – Per SMMC Section 27.48.100, street trees shall be planted within the public right-
of-way. The project includes a waiver from this requirement due to site constraints, including 
insuﬃcient clearance and utility conﬂicts that prevent standard street tree installation within the 
right-of-way. Instead, the project proposed planting street trees immediately behind the right-of-
way line along the Project frontage.
3)
Pedestrian Paseos – Objective Design Standards (“ODS”) Section 3.1.2.D requires a minimum eight 
(8)-foot-wide public access easement within the required minimum paseo width for pedestrian 
access. The applicant has requested a waiver to allow pathways and paseos to be provided as 
private pedestrian easements.
4)
Pedestrian Paseos – Per ODS Section 3.1.2.F, a minimum of three pedestrian amenities such as 
benches, shade structures, and trees shall be provided for at least every twenty linear feet of 
pedestrian paseos. The project requested waivers to reduce the number of pedestrian amenities 
to one. The project includes trees along the pedestrian paseos.
5)
Articulation Details – Per ODS Section 4.1.2, at least two identiﬁed façade articulations shall be 
provided for low-rise buildings. The project requested a waiver from this requirement, as only one 
façade articulation is provided on the front elevations of some buildings.
6)
Building Materials and Colors – Per ODS Section 4.1.3.B, each color or material, excluding trim, 
shall constitute at least 10 percent of the building façade. A waiver is requested to allow colors 
or materials to constitute less than 10 percent of the building façade.
7)
Building Materials and Colors – Per ODS Section 4.1.3.C, any change in color or material shall be 
characterized by a minimum six-inch oﬀset from the adjacent building plane, or by the use of 
architectural elements such as moldings or bandings to create the oﬀset. A waiver is requested to 
allow changes in color or materials without the required six-inch oﬀset.
8)
Massing Breaks – Generally – Per ODS Section 4.1.4, structures three or more stories and sixty 
feet or greater in length shall follow the rule of thirds in which a structure is divided into at least 
three primary masses. A waiver is requested to allow elevations to be divided into two primary 
masses instead of three.

--- page 314 ---


--- page 315 ---
9)
Massing Breaks – Low-rise buildings – Per ODS Section 4.1.5, low-rise buildings shall include a 
minimum 18-inch-deep wall plane break for every 15 to 30 feet of horizontal wall length. A waiver 
is requested to allow wall plane breaks at intervals of up to 81 feet.
10) Residential Entries – Per ODS Section 4.2.2, entries to ground-ﬂoor residential uses shall be 
located between 18 and 42 inches above or below the grade of the adjacent public sidewalk. Some 
of the project’s residential entries are proposed at heights less than 18 inches above grade.
11) Roof Form. Variation – Per ODS Section 4.5.1, all buildings up to four stories in height shall provide 
variations in roof height and/or form for a minimum of 30 percent of the rooﬂine. A waiver is 
requested to eliminate the roof height variation requirement.
12) Roof From – Additional Requirements – Per ODS Section 4.5.2.B, eave treatments including 
depth, material, style, and brackets shall be consistent across a building. A waiver is requested to 
allow non-matching eave depths.
13) Window and Door Alignment – Vertical Alignment – Per ODS Section 4.6.1.A, building facades 
that front a street or public right-of-way shall have windows, doors, arches, and balconies aligned 
vertically along a centerline through these elements. Where the ground ﬂoor or base of a building 
is a nonresidential use, vertical alignment shall begin from the second ﬂoor or at the level where 
residential use begins. A waiver is requested to allow windows, doors, and balconies that are not 
centrally aligned.
14) Window and Door Alignment – Horizontal Alignment – Per ODS Section 4.6.1.B, sets of windows, 
doors, arches, or balconies may span more than the width of a single element above or below if 
the left-most and right-most edges of the set align with the width of the elements above or below, 
and if the elements within the set are evenly spaced. A waiver is requested to allow windows, 
doors, and balconies that are not horizontally aligned.
15) Window and Door Size – Per ODS Section 4.6.1.C, the following shall apply to all windows and 
doors except for curtain wall windows and commercial storefront windows.
i.
Windows and doors shall be vertically oriented, rectangular, and taller than they are wide.
ii.
For residential uses, vertical window elements shall be maintained through 
proportionality and divided lites.
iii.
Windows, doors, arches, and balconies must be equal in size or smaller than the element 
they are aligned with on the ﬂoor below.
The project includes waiver from the above standards because the townhome units will include 
windows that are horizontally oriented. These windows are either grouped to create a sense of 
verticality or are located at the higher elevations for privacy purposes.
16) Windows – Depth – ODS Section 4.6.2 requires windows to be recessed a minimum of three 
inches from the exterior wall surface unless the architectural style dictates ﬂush (curtain wall) or 
protruding windows. Alternatively, a three-inch window trim may be provided. A waiver is 
requested to allow windows that are not recessed.

--- page 316 ---


--- page 317 ---
17) Window Details – ODS Section 4.6.3.C requires all windows to include detailing using at least two 
of the following: window trim, projected lintel, projected sill, and sashes. The project’s windows 
include window trim, but not the other details.
18) Lites – Per ODS Section 4.6.3.D, lites are required to “be square or vertically oriented rectangles.” 
The project does not meet this requirement. Less than 10% of the lites will be horizontal and 
rectangular, which will be grouped in assemblies to provide natural light within certain units or to 
maintain privacy.
19) Matching Lite Size and Proportions – Per ODS Section 4.6.3.E, the size and proportion of lites shall 
be consistent among windows in a group. A waiver is requested to allow variation in lite sizes and 
proportions.
20) Entries, Doors, and Stairways – Entry Locations – ODS Section 4.6.5.A, requires each façade 
adjacent to a street to have at least one pedestrian or main entry fronting the primary or 
secondary street frontage or, where public paseo exists, to that paseo. A waiver is requested from 
providing a pedestrian entry fronting S. Amphlett Street.
21) Entries, Doors, and Stairways – Per ODS Section 4.6.5.D.2, all individual garage doors shall be 
recessed a minimum of six inches from the surrounding building wall. A waiver is requested to 
allow garage doors that are recessed, but less than six inches due to limitations on framing 
materials.
22) Utility Room Entries – ODS Section 4.6.5.E.1-3 consists of the following criteria: (1) Exterior-facing 
utility rooms and emergency exit corridor doors shall not be located on the primary street 
frontage. (2) When visible from a public right-of-way, utility room doors and emergency exits shall 
be the same materials, colors, and style as the main entry doors. (3) These standards shall not 
apply if they conﬂict with the rules and regulations of PG&E, another private or public utility 
conveyor, or the Fire or Building Code. The project’s utility closets are face S. Amphlett Blvd, and 
a waiver is requested from these requirements.
23) Private Open Space – ODS Section 5.1.1.B standard consists of the following criteria: (1) the fronts 
and sides of balconies shall consist of obscured glass, slats, or partially transparent grating or 
railing that is at least 50% open; (2) enclosed private ground-ﬂoor open spaces fronting a public 
street and/or sidewalk shall have an enclosure between 3-4 feet in height; and (3) enclosure 
materials shall be limited to the following: walls of a color and materials that match those used 
for the main buildings; wrought iron fencing; glass; or wood. Some of the project’s balconies are 
enclosed by solid walls, and the private courtyards adjacent to S. Grant Street will be enclosed by 
3-4 foot high wood fencing.
24) Transformers – Per ODS Section 6.2.1, transformers “shall be located within a structure or placed 
underground,” and if this is not feasible, then “an above-ground transformer shall be permitted 
but shall be located outside of any required setbacks and open space areas and shall be screened 
from public view with landscaping and fencing/walls.” The project includes approximately 15 
transformers, which cannot be located within a structure or underground, nor will they be 
screened by landscaping and fencing or walls.

--- page 318 ---


--- page 319 ---
25) Required Screening – Per ODS Section 6.3, all above-ground onsite ancillary features shall be
screened via certain identiﬁed methods. A waiver is requested to not screen the transformers.
26) Site Planning – Building, Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features – Setbacks – ODS Section 
7.6.1.B.3, requires residential setback areas to include at least one of the following for every unit 
that fronts the sidewalk: (1) porch/stoop; (2) landscaped areas; (3) small private gardens. A waiver 
is requested to allow these features to be omitted for units facing S. Amphlett Boulevard.
27) Site Planning – Building, Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features – Entries – ODS Section 
7.6.1.C, requires all primary building entries to face the public street and sidewalk. A waiver is 
requested to allow buildings along S. Amphlett Boulevard to have their primary entries oriented 
toward internal roadways.
28) Building Design and Architecture – ODS Section 7.6.2.A:
1)
Articulation: All upper-ﬂoor residential units facing local streets shall include at least one 
of the following: an occupiable outdoor deck designed as usable open space, a balcony, 
or a bay window. A waiver is requested from this requirement, as the upper-ﬂoor 
residential units facing S. Amphlett Blvd do not provide these features
2)
All building façades visible from a public street or public area shall include at least three 
of the following across the entire façade: trellises, arcades, awnings, balconies, belt 
courses along sill lines, or capped parapets. A waiver is requested to allow façades, 
speciﬁcally those facing S. Amphlett Blvd, to forgo these required features.

--- page 320 ---
ATTACHMENT 2- LOCATION AND ZONING MAPS
PA-2025-029
Planning  
Application:
1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard 
San Mateo, CA 94402
Parcel Number(s):
035241240, 035241250, and 035241260
Address(es): 
1,000 feet
Project Site

--- page 321 ---
ATTACHMENT 2- LOCATION AND ZONING MAPS
PA-2025-029
Planning  
Application:
1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard 
San Mateo, CA 94402
Parcel Number(s):
035241240, 035241250, and 035241260
Address(es): 
Project

--- page 322 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
G.1
SHEET
COVER SHEET - PT.1 
B AY S H O R E  C O M M O N S  -  G E N E R A L P L A N N I N G  A P P L I C AT I O N
1650-1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD., SAN MATEO, CA 
GENERAL PLANNING APPLICATION
Renderings are provided to illustrate design intent.

--- page 323 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
G.2
SHEET
COVER SHEET - PT.2 
APPLICANT REPRESENTATIVE 
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP
1720 South Amphlett Blvd., Suite 118
San Mateo, CA 94402 
Contact: Andy Beck
Tel: (415) 531-7779
abeck@linklogistics.com
ARCHITECT
DAHLIN GROUP 
5865 Owens Drive 
Pleasanton, CA  94588
Contact: Eric Muzzy 
Tel: (925) 251-7286
Eric.Muzzy@dahlingroup.com
CIVIL ENGINEERS
SAGE CONSULTING ENGINEERS
12 Geary Street, Suite 605
San Francisco, CA 94108   
Contact: Kirsten Hanson
Tel:  (415) 890-5250 x 2
khanson@sage-ce.com
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
JETT
2 Theatre Square, Suite 218
Orinda, CA 94563
Contact: Bruce Jett
Tel: (925) 254-5422 x 101
brucej@jett.com
PROJECT TEAM:
SHEET #	TITLE
GENERAL
G.1	 	
COVER SHEET -	
PT. 1	
G.2	 	
COVER SHEET -	
PT. 2	
G.3	 	
PROPERTY PHOTOS - PT.1
G.4	 	
PROPERTY PHOTOS - PT.2	 	
G.5	 	
BUILDING LOCATION PLAN	 	
G.6 		
AB 130 SITE PLAN
G.7	 	
RENDERINGS -	
PT. 1	
G.8	 	
RENDERINGS - 	
PT. 2	
SHEET INDEX:
The development site is located at 1650-1720 S. Amphlett Blvd. between South Grant St. and South Amphlett Blvd. in San Mateo, California. Currently, 
the 14.47 acre site consists of seven 3-story office buildings and one 1-story commercial building.  The project proposes demolition of all existing 
buildings, and redevelopment of the site as 100% residential use. 
The project includes two types of townhome style condominium buildings (TH1 and TH2) and single family detached homes (SFD).  All buildings will 
be 3-stories in height with 2-car garages for each residence. 192 townhomes are proposed with sizes ranging from 2-3 bedrooms, and 64 single family 
detached homes are proposed with 4 bedrooms each.  The project includes 38 Below Market Rate homes offered at moderate level of affordability on site. 
A collector loop road provides access to each parcel. Alley loaded neighborhoods feature pedestrian entries along shared paseos, parks, or street 
frontages.  A series of commons areas will be provided for exclusive use of future residents.  Amenities within common areas will include; a dog park, bike 
racks, seating and picnic areas, a shade structure, play equipment and a fitness path.  Individual solid waste carts will be stored in garages and staged in 
garage aprons for pickup. 55 visitor parking spaces are proposed on site.  There are approximately 35 existing on-street spaces on S. Grant Street, and 
creation of approximately 21 on-street spaces along S. Amphlett is proposed.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: 
ARCHITECTURAL SUMMARY
Product
Plan Name
Program
Unit 
Count
Net Living 
Area / Unit 
(Sq. Ft.)
Gross Living 
Area / Unit 
(Sq. Ft.)
Porch Area / 
Unit (Sq.ft)
Deck or 
Sunroom Area / 
Unit (Sq.ft)
A1
2 BED + 2.5 BATH
10
1,346.4
1475.5
73.3
52.6
A1
10
2 BED + 2.5 BATH
Standard
2
20.0%
A(Acc)1
2 BED + 2.5 BATH
10
1,346.4
1475.5
73.3
52.6
A(Acc)1
10
2 BED + 2.5 BATH
Standard
1
10.0%
B1
3 BED +OFFICE+2.5 BATH
36
1,506.6
1647.5
68.5
82.1
B1
36
3 BED +OFFICE+2.5 BATH
Standard
6
16.7%
C2
3 BED +OFFICE+2.5 BATH
18
1,621.2
1759.7
83.2
63.5
C2
18
3 BED +OFFICE+2.5 BATH
Standard
3
16.7%
CX2
3 BED +OFFICE+ 2.5 BATH
18
1,621.2
1759.7
83.2
63.5
CX2
18
3 BED +OFFICE+ 2.5 BATH
Standard
2
11.1%
Subtotal
92
Subtotal
92
14
15.2%
A1
3 BED +OFFICE +3 BATH
38
1,448.9
1601.2
62.2
72.7
A1
38
3 BED +OFFICE +3 BATH
Tandem
5
13.2%
A2
3 BED +OFFICE +3 BATH
12
1,448.9
1601.2
62.2
72.7
A2
12
3 BED +OFFICE +3 BATH
Tandem
3
25.0%
B1
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
10
1,642.6
1811.5
79.7
79.5
B1
10
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
Standard
2
20.0%
B2
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
3
1,642.6
1811.5
79.7
79.5
B2
3
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
Standard
0
0.0%
B1(Acc)
3 BED +OFFICE+ 3 BATH
8
1,642.6
1811.5
79.7
79.5
B1(Acc)
8
3 BED +OFFICE+ 3 BATH
Standard
2
25.0%
B2(Acc)
3 BED +OFFICE+ 3 BATH
3
1,642.6
1811.5
79.7
79.5
B2(Acc)
3
3 BED +OFFICE+ 3 BATH
Standard
0
0.0%
BX2
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
13
1,642.6
1811.5
83.2
79.5
BX2
13
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
Standard
2
15.4%
BX2 (Closet)
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
13
1,642.6
1811.5
83.2
79.5
Subtotal
100
Subtotal
100
15
15.0%
A1
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
17
N/A
2122.4
147.0
110.8
A1
17
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
Standard
2
11.8%
A2
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
15
N/A
2122.4
147.0
110.8
A2
15
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
Standard
3
20.0%
B1
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
17
N/A
2252.0
83.3
79.7
B1
17
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
Standard
2
11.8%
B2
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
15
N/A
2252.0
83.3
79.7
B2
15
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
Standard
2
13.3%
Subtotal
64
Subtotal
64
9
14.1%
Project Total
256
Project Total
256
38
14.8%
TH 1
TH 2
SFD
630,500 sf
14.47 ac
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
PROPOSED
General Plan land use
Zoning classification
Density  (du/ac)
17.7
3 stories, 35' 
max
Floor area ratio
0.94
Floor area (sf)
590,874
Plot area (sf)
630,500
Plot width (ft)
1,166
41.2%
259,700
Yards - Street frontage (ft)
14' min
Residential buffers - Street frontage
14' min
Residential buffers - Interior lot line
15' min
Creek setback
27' from TOB 
min
Total Spaces
567
Covered parking stalls (private garages)
512
Uncovered parking stalls (visitor)
55
Accessible Stalls
4 of 55
Loading
1
Bike Parking
Short term - SFD
n/a
Long term - SFD
n/a
Short term - MF (>1,400 sf)
30
Long term - MF (>1,400 sf)
298
No spaces req'd
No spaces req'd
0.15
28.8
1.5
288
2
512
0.2
51
5% of visitor
2.8
1
Setbacks (to overall project boundary)
Project total
563
20' from TOB min.
7.5 min
1/2 bldg height from PL min
1/2 bldg. height from PL or 15' min
Parking
Spaces/Unit
Total Spaces
1.0 max
630,500
20% min
At grade open space
sf min
126,100
Assessor parcel number
035-241-240, 035-241-250, 035-241-260
Lot size
STANDARD
Mixed-Use Medium I 
6,000
50 min at the building line
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT DATA
Site address
1650-1720 South Amphlett Blvd., San Mateo, CA
max
15 - 50
3 - 5 stories
E2-1 – Executive Office
Building height (existing grade to highest 
plate line)
SITE
  VICINITY MAP: (nts)
ARCHITECTURE
A.1.1	
UNIT PLANS -	SFD_A1 & A2	
A.1.2	
UNIT PLANS -	SFD_B1 & B2
A.1.3	
UNIT PLANS -	TH1_A1	
A.1.4	
UNIT PLANS -	TH1_B1	
A.1.5	
UNIT PLANS -	TH1_C2	
A.1.6	
UNIT PLANS -	TH1_CX2	
A.1.7	
UNIT PLANS -	TH2_A1 & A2	
A.1.8	
UNIT PLANS -	TH2_B1 & B2	
A.1.9	
UNIT PLANS -	TH2_BX2		
A.2.1	
FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS	
	
A.3.1	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH1_4-PLEX	 PT. 1
A.3.2	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH1_4-PLEX	 PT. 2
A.3.3	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH1_5-PLEX_ADA	 PT. 1
A.3.4	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH1_5-PLEX_ADA	 PT. 2
A.3.5	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH1_6-PLEX	 PT. 1
A.3.6	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH1_6-PLEX	 PT. 2
A.3.7	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH1_6-PLEX_ADA	 PT. 1
A.3.8	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH1_6-PLEX_ADA	 PT. 2
A.3.9	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH2_6-PLEX	 PT. 1
A.3.10	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH2_6-PLEX	 PT. 2
A.3.11	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH2_8-PLEX_ADA	 PT. 1
A.3.12	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH2_8-PLEX_ADA PT. 2
A.3.13	
BUILDING PLANS -	TH2_8-PLEX_ADA	 PT. 3	
A.4.1	
BUILDING SECTIONS -	 PT. 1	
A.4.2	
BUILDING SECTIONS -	 PT. 2	
A.5.1	
ELEVATIONS -	SFD_A1	 COLOR SCHEME 1
A.5.2	
ELEVATIONS -	SFD_A2	 COLOR SCHEME 1 
A.5.3	
ELEVATIONS -	SFD_A1	 COLOR SCHEME 2
A.5.4	
ELEVATIONS -	SFD_A2	 COLOR SCHEME 2
A.5.5	
ELEVATIONS -	SFD_B1	 COLOR SCHEME 1
A.5.6	
ELEVATIONS -	SFD_B2	 COLOR SCHEME 1 
A.5.7	
ELEVATIONS -	SFD_B1	 COLOR SCHEME 2
A.5.8	
ELEVATIONS -	SFD_B2	 COLOR SCHEME 2 
A.5.9	
ELEVATIONS -	TH1_4-PLEX	 COLOR SCHEME 1
A.5.10	
ELEVATIONS -	TH1_4-PLEX	 COLOR SCHEME 2
A.5.11	
ELEVATIONS -	TH1_5-PLEX	 COLOR SCHEME 1
A.5.12	
ELEVATIONS -	TH1_5-PLEX	 COLOR SCHEME 2
A.5.13	
ELEVATIONS -	TH1_6-PLEX	 COLOR SCHEME 1
A.5.14	
ELEVATIONS -	TH1_6-PLEX	 COLOR SCHEME 2
A.5.15	
ELEVATIONS -	TH2_6-PLEX	 COLOR SCHEME 2
A.5.16	
ELEVATIONS -	TH2_8-PLEX	 COLOR SCHEME 1
A.5.17	
ELEVATIONS -	TH2_8-PLEX 2 COLOR SCHEME 1
A.5.18	
ELEVATIONS -	TH2_8-PLEX	 COLOR SCHEME 2
A.5.19	
ELEVATIONS -	TH2_8-PLEX 2 COLOR SCHEME 2
A.6.1	
COLOR & MATERIALS -	SFD_A_CS 1
A.6.2	
COLOR & MATERIALS -	SFD_A_CS 2
A.6.3	
COLOR & MATERIALS -	SFD_B_CS 1
A.6.4	
COLOR & MATERIALS -	SFD_B_CS 2	 	
A.6.5	
COLOR & MATERIALS -	TH1_CS1
A.6.6	
COLOR & MATERIALS -	TH1_CS2
A.6.7	
COLOR & MATERIALS -	TH1_CS1
A.6.8	
COLOR & MATERIALS -	TH2_CS2
N
CIVIL
C0.1		
TITLE SHEET	
C0.2		
ALTA SURVEY
C0.3		
ALTA SURVEY
C0.4		
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C0.5		
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C0.6		
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C0.7		
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C0.8		
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C1.0		
EXISTING SITE & UTILITY PLAN
C2.0		
CIVIL SITE PLAN - OVERALL
C2.1		
CIVIL SITE PLAN - N
C2.2		
CIVIL SITE PLAN - E
C2.3		
CIVIL SITE PLAN - S
C2.4		
CIVIL SITE PLAN - W
C2.5		
PARCELIZATION PLAN
C2.6		
FIRE ACCESS PLAN
C3.0		
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - OVERALL
C3.1		
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - N
C3.2		
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - E
C3.3		
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - S
C3.4		
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - W
C4.0		
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - OVERALL
C4.1		
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - N
C4.2		
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - E
C4.3		
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - S
C4.4		
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - W
C5.0		
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
C5.1 	
STORMWATER CONTROL CALCULATIONS
C5.2 	
STORMWATER O&M FORMS
C6.1		
S. AMPHLETT BLVD - PLAN & SECTION
C6.2		
S. AMPHLETT BLVD - PLAN & SECTION
C6.3		
S. AMPHLETT BLVD - PLAN & SECTION
C7.1		
S.GRANT ST - PLAN & SECTION
C7.2		
S.GRANT ST - PLAN & SECTION
C7.3		
S.GRANT ST - PLAN & SECTION
C8.0		
LESLIE CREEK SECTIONS
LANDSCAPE
L1.01	
PRELIMINARY LANDSCAPE PLAN
L1.02	
PRELIMINARY LANDSCAPE PLAN ENLARGEMENTS
L1.03	
PRELIMINARY LANDSCAPE PLAN ENLARGEMENTS
L1.04	
PRELIMINARY LANDSCAPE PLAN ENLARGEMENTS
L2.01	
PRECEDENT IMAGES & CONCEPT DETAILS
L3.01	
PRELIMINARY PLANTING PLAN
L3.02	
PRELIMINARY PLANT SCHEDULE & IMAGES
L4.01	
TREE PROTECTION & REMOVAL PLAN
L4.02.1	
ARBORIST REPORT
L4.02.2	
ARBORIST REPORT
L4.02.3	
ARBORIST REPORT
L4.02.4	
ARBORIST REPORT - TREE DATA
L4.02.6	
ARBORIST REPORT - TREE DATA & TREE LOCATION MAP
L4.02.6	
ARBORIST REPORT - TREE EVALUATION SCHEDULE
L4.03	
TREE REPLACEMENT SCHEDULE & ARBORIST MEMO
L5.01	
PRELIMINARY LIGHTING PLAN
L5.02 	
PRELIMINARY LIGHTING SCHEDULE & IMAGES

--- page 324 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
PROPERTY PHOTOS - PT.1
G.3
SHEET
N
BAYSHORE FWY
S GRANT ST
S AMPHLETT BLVD
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

--- page 325 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
PROPERTY PHOTOS - PT.2
G.4
SHEET
N
BAYSHORE FWY
S GRANT ST
S AMPHLETT BLVD
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

--- page 326 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
BUILDING LOCATION PLAN
G.5
SHEET
0
25
50
100
150
FEET
APPLICABLE CODES:                                                                                                         
2022 CBC - CA Building Code Parts 1 & 2
2022 CMC - CA Mechanical Code
2022 CPC - CA Plumbing Code
2022 CFC – CA Fire Code
2022 CEC - CA Energy Code
2022 CGBSC - CA Green Building Standards Code
City of San Mateo Municipal Code
BUILDING INFORMATION: 
BUILDING TYPE: SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED
OCCUPANCY GROUP: R-3
CONSTRUCTION TYPE: VB
EXTERIOR FIRE RESISTANCE RATING: N/A
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: >3’
FIRE PROTECTION: NFPA 13D SPRINKLER SYSTEM
ALLOWABLE HEIGHT: 40’ MAX
ALLOWABLE NUMBER OF STORIES: 4 STORIES MAX
ALLOWABLE AREA: UNLIMITED
BUILDING TYPE: TOWNHOME
OCCUPANCY GROUP: R-2
CONSTRUCTION TYPE: VB
EXTERIOR FIRE RESISTANCE RATING: N/A
FIRE SEPARATION DISTANCE: >10’
FIRE PROTECTION: NFPA 13 SPRINKLER SYSTEM
ALLOWABLE HEIGHT: 60’ MAX
ALLOWABLE NUMBER OF STORIES: 3 STORIES MAX
ALLOWABLE AREA: PER BUILDING AREA SUMMARY 
TABLE.  (Calculations incorporate frontage increase and 
are based on most restricive Building. 2-hour fire walls 
will be used to create separation in TH2 8-Plex buildings 
as needed.)
1. Fire separation distances are shown to adjacent 
property line or imaginary property line.
2. Travel distance in all units is less than 125 feet.
3. Building height in all buildings is less than 40 feet.
4.          Ladder pad locations are indicated with red 
dashed lines.  Additional rescue windows are accessed 
from rear drive aisles.
BUILDING DATA:
BMR UNIT LOCATION
PROPERTY LINE
CS1 = COLOR SCHEME 1
IMAGINARY PROPERTY LINE
CS2 = COLOR SCHEME 2
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
STREET B
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
STREET A
ALLEY K
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
ALLEY J
STREET B
BUILDING NOTES: 
BUILDING TYPES: 
N
SFD
TH1
TH2
AT GRADE OPEN SPACE
(259,700 SQUARE FEET)
BLDG 14
5-PLEX CS2
BLDG 15
5-PLEX CS1
BLDG 16
6-PLEX CS2
BLDG 17
6-PLEX CS1
BLDG 1
8-PLEX CS2
BLDG 8
8-PLEX 2 CS1
BLDG 9
8-PLEX CS2
BLDG 2
8-PLEX CS1
BLDG 4
8-PLEX CS1
BLDG 6
8-PLEX CS1
BLDG 23
4-PLEX CS2
BLDG 24
4-PLEX CS1
BLDG 25
4-PLEX CS2
BLDG 26
4-PLEX CS1
BLDG 27
5-PLEX CS2
BLDG 28 
5-PLEX CS1
BLDG 3
8-PLEX CS2
BLDG 7
6-PLEX CS2
BLDG 5
8-PLEX CS2
BLDG 21
6-PLEX CS1
BLDG 20
6-PLEX CS2
BLDG 19
6-PLEX CS1
BLDG 22
6-PLEX CS1
BLDG 31
5-PLEX CS1
S. AMPHLETT BLVD.
S. GRANT STREET
BAYSHORE FREEWAY
BLDG 10
8-PLEX 2 CS2
BLDG 13
8-PLEX CS1
BLDG 12
6-PLEX CS2
BLDG 11
8-PLEX 2 CS1
BLDG 30
5-PLEX CS2
BLDG 29
4-PLEX CS1 
BLDG 18
6-PLEX CS2
TH1 
CX2
TH2 
BX2
TH2 A
TH2 A
TH2 A
TH2 A
TH1 
CX
TH1 B
TH1 B
TH1 B
TH2 
BX2
TH2 
A2
TH2 A
TH2 B
TH2 
A2
TH1 
CX2
TH2 B 
ACC
TH2 B 
ACC
TH1 
C2
TH2 BX2 
CLOSET
TH2 
A2
TH2 B
TH1 A
TH1 
C2
TH1 
A
TH1 
A 
ACC
TH1 
B
TH1 B
TH1 B
1
SFD A2 
CS1
5
SFD 
A2
CS1
16
SFDA
CS1
19
SFD 
A2
CS1
33
SFDA
CS1
23
SFD 
A2
CS1
29
SFD 
A2
CS1
44
SFD 
A2
CS1
55
SFDA
CS1
37
SFDA
CS1
25
SFD 
A2
CS1
41
SFDA
CS1
48
SFD 
A2
CS1
59
SFDA
CS1
63
SFDA
CS1
12
SFDA
CS1
2
SFDB
CS2
13
SFDB
CS2
20
SFD 
B2
CS2
30
SFDB
CS2
22
SFD 
B2
CS2
26
SFD 
B2
CS2
42
SFDB
CS2
45
SFD 
B2
CS2
56
SFDB
CS2
49
SFD 
B2
CS2
60
SFDB
CS2
64
SFDB
CS2
38
SFDB
CS2
34
SFDB
CS2
6
SFD 
B2
CS2
9
SFDB
CS2
4
SFD 
B2
CS1
11
SFDB
CS1
8
SFD 
B2
CS1
18
SFD 
B2
CS1
36
SFDB
CS1
28
SFD 
B2
CS1
43
SFD 
B2
CS1
54
SFDB
CS1
47
SFD 
B2
CS1
62
SFDB
CS1
51
SFD 
B2
CS1
52
SFD 
A2
CS1
58
SFDB
CS1
40
SFDB
CS1
24
SFD 
B2
CS1
32
SFDB
CS1
15
SFDB
CS1
3
SFDA
CS2
7
SFD 
A2
CS2
17
SFD 
A2
CS2
27
SFD 
A2
CS2
46
SFD 
A2
CS2
57
SFDA
CS2
53
SFDA
CS2
61
SFDA
CS2
50
SFD 
A2
CS2
21
SFD 
A2
CS2
35
SFDA
CS2
39
SFDA
CS2
31
SFDA
CS2
14
SFDA
CS2
10
SFDA
CS2
BUILDING AREA SUMMARY
Product
Building 
Name
Building 
Area (Sq. Ft.)
Allowable 
Area (Sq. Ft.)
Most 
Restrictive 
Building
4-plex
9,541.2
21,000.0
Building 23
5-plex ADA
11,721.7
18,900.0
Building 31
6-plex
13,855.7
21,420.0
Building 16
6-plex ADA
13,855.7
19,460.0
Building 22
6-plex
14,853.5
20,020.0
Building 12
8-plex ADA
19,926.7
18,900.0
Building 13
Plan A
2,662.7
Unlimited
N/A
Plan B
2,838.2
Unlimited
N/A
Detached Home
Program
TH 1
Detached Home
C2, A1(Acc), B1, B1, CX2
C2, B1, B1, CX2
BX2(Closet), A1, B1(Acc), A1, A1, B1, 
A1, BX2
BX2(Closet), A1, B1, A1, A1, BX2
C2, B1, A1, A1(Acc), B1, CX2
C2, B1, A1, A1, B1, CX2
SFD
TH 2
Product
Plan Name
Unit 
Count
Program
Garage 
Type
Proposed 
BMR Unit 
Count
Proposed 
% of BMR 
Units
A1
10
2 BED + 2.5 BATH
Standard
2
20.0%
A(Acc)1
10
2 BED + 2.5 BATH
Standard
1
10.0%
B1
36
3 BED +OFFICE+2.5 BATH
Standard
6
16.7%
C2
18
3 BED +OFFICE+2.5 BATH
Standard
3
16.7%
CX2
18
3 BED +OFFICE+ 2.5 BATH
Standard
2
11.1%
Subtotal
92
14
15.2%
A1
38
3 BED +OFFICE +3 BATH
Tandem
5
13.2%
A2
12
3 BED +OFFICE +3 BATH
Tandem
3
25.0%
B1
10
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
Standard
2
20.0%
B2
3
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
Standard
0
0.0%
B1(Acc)
8
3 BED +OFFICE+ 3 BATH
Standard
2
25.0%
B2(Acc)
3
3 BED +OFFICE+ 3 BATH
Standard
0
0.0%
BX2
13
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
Standard
2
15.4%
BX2 (Closet)
13
3 BED +DEN+ 2.5 BATH
Standard
1
7.7%
Subtotal
100
15
15.0%
A1
17
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
Standard
2
11.8%
A2
15
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
Standard
3
20.0%
B1
17
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
Standard
2
11.8%
B2
15
4 BED / 3.5 BATH
Standard
2
13.3%
Subtotal
64
9
14.1%
Project Total
256
38
14.8%
TH 1
TH 2
SFD
* All BMR units proposed at moderate income level of affordability
BMR SUMMARY *

--- page 327 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
AB 130 SITE PLAN
G.6
SHEET
0
25
50
100
150
FEET
© 2025 Microsoft Corporation © 2025 Maxar ©CNES (2025) Distr
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
STREET B
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
STREET A
ALLEY K
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
ALLEY J
STREET B
500'
500'
500'
N
1. HIGHLIGHTED UNITS FEATURE SUN-ROOMS IN PLACE OF BALCONIES
AB 130 NOTES: 
500’ FROM 
FREEWAY
500’ FROM 
FREEWAY
FREEWAY
FREEWAY
BLDG 14
5-PLEX CS2
BLDG 15
5-PLEX CS1
BLDG 16
6-PLEX CS2
BLDG 17
6-PLEX CS1
BLDG 1
8-PLEX CS2
BLDG 8
8-PLEX 2 CS1
BLDG 9
8-PLEX CS2
BLDG 2
8-PLEX CS1
BLDG 4
8-PLEX CS1
BLDG 6
8-PLEX CS1
BLDG 23
4-PLEX CS2
BLDG 24
4-PLEX CS1
BLDG 25
4-PLEX CS2
BLDG 26
4-PLEX CS1
BLDG 27
5-PLEX CS2
BLDG 28 
5-PLEX CS1
BLDG 3
8-PLEX CS2
BLDG 7
6-PLEX CS2
BLDG 5
8-PLEX CS2
BLDG 21
6-PLEX CS1
BLDG 20
6-PLEX CS2
BLDG 19
6-PLEX CS1
BLDG 22
6-PLEX CS1
BLDG 31
5-PLEX CS1
BLDG 10
8-PLEX 2 CS2
BLDG 13
8-PLEX CS1
BLDG 12
6-PLEX CS2
BLDG 11
8-PLEX 2 CS1
BLDG 30
5-PLEX CS2
BLDG 29
4-PLEX CS1 
BLDG 18
6-PLEX CS2
1
SFD A2 
CS1
5
SFD 
A2
CS1
16
SFDA
CS1
19
SFD 
A2
CS1
33
SFDA
CS1
23
SFD 
A2
CS1
29
SFD 
A2
CS1
44
SFD 
A2
CS1
55
SFDA
CS1
37
SFDA
CS1
25
SFD 
A2
CS1
41
SFDA
CS1
48
SFD 
A2
CS1
59
SFDA
CS1
63
SFDA
CS1
12
SFDA
CS1
2
SFD B2
CS2
13
SFDB
CS2
20
SFD 
B2
CS2
30
SFDB
CS2
22
SFD 
B2
CS2
26
SFD 
B2
CS2
42
SFDB
CS2
45
SFD 
B2
CS2
56
SFDB
CS2
49
SFD 
B2
CS2
60
SFDB
CS2
64
SFDB
CS2
38
SFDB
CS2
34
SFDB
CS2
6
SFD 
B2
CS2
9
SFDB
CS2
4
SFD 
B2
CS1
11
SFDB
CS1
8
SFD 
B2
CS1
18
SFD 
B2
CS1
36
SFDB
CS1
28
SFD 
B2
CS1
43
SFD 
B2
CS1
54
SFDB
CS1
47
SFD 
B2
CS1
62
SFDB
CS1
51
SFD 
B2
CS1
52
SFD 
A2
CS1
58
SFDB
CS1
40
SFDB
CS1
24
SFD 
B2
CS1
32
SFDB
CS1
15
SFDB
CS1
3
SFDA
CS2
7
SFD 
A2
CS2
17
SFD 
A2
CS2
27
SFD 
A2
CS2
46
SFD 
A2
CS2
57
SFDA
CS2
53
SFDA
CS2
61
SFDA
CS2
50
SFD 
A2
CS2
21
SFD 
A2
CS2
35
SFDA
CS2
39
SFDA
CS2
31
SFDA
CS2
14
SFDA
CS2
10
SFDA
CS2
S. AMPHLETT BLVD.
S. GRANT STREET
BAYSHORE FREEWAY

--- page 328 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
RENDERINGS - PT.1
G.7
SHEET
Renderings are provided to illustrate design intent.

--- page 329 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
RENDERINGS - PT.2
G.8
SHEET
Renderings are provided to illustrate design intent.

--- page 330 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.1.1
SHEET
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
UNIT PLANS-SFD_A1 & A2
UP
DN
16'-2"
16'-1" x
LIVING
9'-1" CLG
10'-1"
14'-1" x
DINING
9'-1" CLG
POCKET
OFFICE
9'-1" CLG.
POWDER
7'-4" CLG.
LAUNDRY
9'-1" CLG.
PANTRY
9'-1" CLG.
COATS
9'-1" CLG.
7'-6"
40'-6"
1'-0"
49'-0"
8'-8"
40'-4"
49'-0"
14'-6"
8'-0"
22'-6"
11'-10"
10'-8"
22'-6"
DECK
9'-1" CLG.
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
2040 SH
13'-4"
16'-2" x
KITCHEN
9'-1" CLG
SFD-A1 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
3050 SH
2050 FX
3050 SH
2040 SH
6080
2480
2480
2464
2880
5'-6"
17'-0"
2040 FX
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
PRIMARY BATH
9'-1" CLG.
9'-11"
10'-11" x
BED 2
9'-1" CLG
10'-5"
10'-3" x
BED 3
9'-1" CLG
32" x 60"
36" x 66"
40'-6"
1'-0"
41'-6"
40'-4"
41'-6"
5'-6"
17'-0"
22'-6"
11'-10"
10'-8"
22'-6"
12'-5"
16'-1" x
PRIMRY BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
9'-1" CLG.
LINEN
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
9'-1" CLG
3050 SH O/
3020 FX
3050 SH O/
3020 FX
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
4020 SL
4020 SL
2040 FX
2040 FX
OPEN
HALL
9'-1" CLG.
SFD-A1 & A2 THIRD FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
3050 SH
3050 SH
1'-2"
2480
2480
2980
2480
2480
2480
2480
2480
2480
5080
2080
UP
SLOPING
CLG.
8'-0"
12'-10"
7'-8"
x
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG
12'-0"
11'-1" x
BED 4
8'-1" CLG
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
STORAGE
32" x 60"
W.I.C.
8'-1" CLG.
20'-4"
21'-7" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
39'-0"
49'-0"
8'-0"
3'-6"
35'-6"
49'-0"
14'-6"
8'-0"
22'-6"
22'-6"
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV.
T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
3050 SH
3050 SH
2050 FX
2050 FX
2050 FX
2020 FX
2020 FX
4020 SL
3050 SH
SFD-A1 & A2 FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
WH
TRASH
RECYCLE COMPOST
1'-0"
1'-0"
2'-0"
3070
2870
2470
2470
2670
10'-6"
12'-0"
Total travel distance
95'-11''
SFD-A1 & A2 ROOF PLAN
SCALE 1/4''
SOLAR ZONE HATCH
SLOPE
6:12
SLOPE
6:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
24'-6 1/2"
43'-3"
6" TYP. U.O.N.
1'-0" TYP. U.O.N.
43'-3"
24'-7"
15'-10"
16'-0"
16'-0"
12'-0"
4'-0"
8'-0"
SLOPE
6:12
SLOPE
6:12
5'-6"
17'-0"
7'-6"
8'-8"
3050 SH
3050 SH
30
7'-6"
8'-8"
14'-6"
8'-0"
22'-6"
SUNROOM
9'-1" CLG.
SFD-A2 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
2050 FX
6080
5076 FX
5076 FX
10080
HATCH LEGEND
SOLAR ZONE AREA

--- page 331 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.1.2
SHEET
UNIT PLANS-SFD_B1 & B2
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
DN
DN
POP OUT FACE OF FINISH
13'-0"
16'-0" x
PRIMARY BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG
10'-10"
10'-8" x
BED 2
9'-1" CLG
11'-10"
10'-8" x
BED 3
9'-1" CLG
9'-1" CLG
9'-1" CLG
9'-1" CLG
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
HALL
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
PRIMARY BATH
9'-1" CLG.
9'-1" CLG
32" x 60"
3050 SH O/
3020 FX
5050 FX O/
5020 FX
3050 FX
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
2050 SH
3050 SH
2650 FX O/
3020 FX
2040 SH
2040 SH
2040 SH
3050 FX
2050 SH
34" x 60"
10'-11"
22'-6"
13'-0"
10'-0"
23'-0"
2'-2"
42'-4"
44'-6"
43'-0"
1'-0"
44'-0"
11'-7"
3050 SH
2480
2980
2480
2480
2480
5980
2880
5680
2680
2480
2050 SH
7'-1 3/4"
15'-7" (A-A)
32" x 60"
BATH 3
9'-1" CLG.
12'-0"
10'-0" x
BED 4
8'-1" CLG
STORAGE
15'-9"
5'-8"
x
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG
STORAGE
10'-6"
12'-0"
22'-6"
44'-0"
5'-4"
49'-4"
7'-0"
40'-4"
49'-4"
22'-6"
WH
8'-1" CLG
21'-1"
21'-7" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
1646 FX
3050 FX
3046 SH
3046 SH
3046 SH
2046 SH
2046 SH
2046 SH
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV.
T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
3050 FX
2'-0"
1'-0"
1'-0"
3070
5470
2480
2470
2870
2670
2020 FX
2020 FX
18'-9" (B-B)
20'-0 1/4"
POP OUT FACE OF FINISH
4"
17'-9"
15'-9" x
LIVING
9'-1" CLG
10'-3"
15'-2" x
DINING
9'-1" CLG
14'-6"
15'-2" x
KITCHEN
9'-1" CLG
POWDER
9'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
9'-1" CLG.
PANTRY
9'-1" CLG.
POCKET OFFICE
9'-1" CLG.
3050 SH
5050 FX
3050 FX
3046 SH
3046 SH
2040 SH
2650 FX
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
2046 SH
3050 FX
2050 FX
2040 SH
2040 SH
2040 SH
10'-11"
11'-7"
22'-6"
29'-1"
4'-6"
49'-4"
13'-0"
10'-0"
23'-0"
4'-10"
1'-0"
42'-4"
2'-2"
4'-10"
49'-4"
DECK
9'-1" CLG.
9'-11"
3080
2680
2680
2680
2040 SH
Total travel distance
93'-5''
UP
UP
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
3:12
SLOPE
3:12
SLOPE
4:12
8 1/4"
6" TYP. U.O.N.
1'-0" TYP. U.O.N.
24'-6 1/2"
45'-9"
25'-10"
45'-9"
15'-4"
14'-3"
8'-0"
14'-3"
10'-5"
4'-0"
SFD-B1 & B2 THIRD FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-B1 & B2 FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-B1 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-B1 & B2 ROOF PLAN
SCALE 1/4''
4'-6"
13'-0"
10'-0"
23'-0"
4'-10"
2'-2"
4'-10"
SUNROOM
9'-1" CLG.
2050 FX
5076 FX
5076 FX
10080
SFD-B2 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
3050 SH
5050 FX
2650 FX
3050
4'-6"
13'-0"
4'-10"
2'-2"
4'-10"
3080
SOLAR ZONE AREA
HATCH LEGEND

--- page 332 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.1.3
SHEET
UNIT PLANS-TH1_A1
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
POWDER
8'-1" CLG.
UP
36'-0"
31'-0"
2'-0"
21'-0"
TH1-A1 FIRST FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
SHELF
+32" A.F.F.
23'-2"
20'-1" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
2020 FX
2040 FX
14'-0"
7'-0"
21'-0"
COATS
8'-1" CLG.
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV. T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
38'-0"
6'-6"
7'-7"
x
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
3'-0"
33'-0"
3'-0"
3070
WH
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
     2870
2470
2470
2'-0"
POWDER
8'-1" CLG.
UP
36'-0"
31'-0"
2'-0"
21'-0"
TH1-A1 FIRST FLOOR (ADAPTABLE)
SCALE: 1/4
SHELF
+32" A.F.F.
WH
2020 FX
2040 FX
14'-0"
7'-0"
21'-0"
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV. T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
38'-0"
6'-6"
9'-4"
x
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
23'-2"
20'-1" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
33'-0"
3'-0"
3'-0"
3070
     3070
3070
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
2'-0"
DN
UP
TH1-A1 SECOND FLOOR
DECK
21'-0"
SCALE: 1/4
SHELF
+39" A.F.F.
16'-1"
16'-3" x
LIVING
9'-1" CLG
14'-1"
11'-8" x
KITCHEN
9'-1" CLG
11'-11"
8'-5"
x
DINING
9'-1" CLG
2040 FX
6050 SL
5046 SL
5046 SL
3'-7"
10'-6"
1'-6"
5'-5"
21'-0"
3'-0"
33'-0"
36'-0"
5'-0"
31'-0"
38'-0"
3080
2'-0"
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG
PRIMARY
BATH
9'-1" CLG
LINEN
W/D
W.I.C
9'-1" CLG.
DN
TH1-A1 THIRD FLOOR
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG
21'-0"
SCALE: 1/4
36" x 66"
13'-0"
12'-2" x
PRIMARY BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG
10'-11"
11'-6" x
BED 2
9'-1" CLG
32" x 60"
2050 FX
6050 SL O/
2050 FX
5050 SL
2040 SH
12'-5"
8'-7"
3'-7"
10'-6"
1'-6"
5'-5"
21'-0"
3'-0"
33'-0"
2'-0"
38'-0"
38'-0"
OPEN TO BELOW
HALL
9'-1" CLG
9'-1" CLG
3080
3080
2480
2480
2880
2680
2480
2480
Total travel distance
93'-3''
1-HR. FIRE PARTITION
HATCH LEGEND

--- page 333 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.1.4
SHEET
UNIT PLANS-TH1_B1
UP
21'-0"
38'-0"
STORAGE
6'-4" CLG.
TH1-B1 FIRST FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
20'-4"
20'-1" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
9'-4"
5'-1"
x
OFFICE
8'-1" CLG
5'-11"
8'-9"
x
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG
5'-6"
15'-6"
2040 SH
1640 FX
21'-0"
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV. T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
31'-0"
3'-7 1/2"
38'-0"
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
34'-7 1/2"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1'-4 1/2"
1'-4 1/2"
3070
2870
WH
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
COATS
9'-1" CLG.
PANTRY
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
TH1-B1 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
11'-5"
16'-2" x
GREAT ROOM
9'-1" CLG
9'-4"
16'-2" x
DINING
9'-1" CLG
11'-5"
16'-2" x
KITCHEN
9'-1" CLG
5'-0"
16'-5" x
DECK
9'-1" CLG
16'-10 1/2"
4'-1 1/2"
21'-0"
6050 SL
3050 FX
1'-4 1/2"
36'-7 1/2"
38'-0"
5'-0"
38'-0"
33'-0"
21'-0"
3080
2480
2080
2480
6050 SL
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
PRIMARY
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
W/D
TH1-B1 THIRD FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
36" x 66"
32" x 60"
9'-11"
10'-0" x
BED 2
9'-1" CLG
9'-11"
9'-10" x
BED 3
9'-1" CLG
10'-10"
14'-1" x
PRIMARY BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG
16'-10 1/2"
4'-1 1/2"
21'-0"
5050 SL
5050 SL
6050 SL O/
2050 FX
1'-6"
36'-6"
21'-0"
LINEN
9'-1" CLG.
9'-1" CLG.
HALL
9'-1" CLG.
9'-1" CLG.
38'-0"
38'-0"
2680
2880
4880
2680
2680
4080
2680
5080
5080
2680
Total travel distance
97'-4''
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
1-HR. FIRE PARTITION
HATCH LEGEND

--- page 334 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.1.5
SHEET
UNIT PLANS-TH1_C2
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
PRIMARY
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
W/D
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
15'-11"
5'-7"
13'-8 1/2"
37'-0"
24'-0"
21'-3 1/2"
2'-0"
2'-6"
24'-0"
19'-0"
5'-0"
6050 SL O/
2050 FX
TH1-C2 THIRD FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
2050 FX
5050 SL
3050 SH
3050 FX
2020 FX
2040 SH
13'-5"
12'-7" x
PRIMARY BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG
10'-4"
10'-6" x
BED 2
9'-1" CLG
10'-7"
12'-4" x
BED 3
9'-1" CLG
6020 FX
36" x 78"
32" x 60"
LINEN
9'-1" CLG
9'-1" CLG
9'-1" CLG
HALL
9'-1" CLG.
2'-0"
35'-0"
37'-0"
2480
2880
2880
2480
2480
2680
2480
5280
5280
2680
UP
24'-0"
33'-0"
37'-0"
21'-3 1/2"
12'-8 1/2"
6'-1"
12'-11"
5'-0"
TH1-C2 FIRST FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
2040 SH
1640 FX
2040 FX
2040 SH
2040 SH
9'-7"
4'-10" x
OFFICE
8'-1" CLG
8'-7"
9'-4"
x
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG
20'-5"
20'-1" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
UTILITY CLOSET
RISER
24'-0"
1'-0"
PATIO
UNCOVERED
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV.
T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
1'-0"
37'-0"
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
2'-0"
1'-0"
2'-0"
3070
2670
WH
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
DN
UP
PANTRY
9'-1" CLG.
POWDER
9'-1" CLG.
15'-11"
5'-7"
24'-0"
13'-8 1/2"
21'-3 1/2"
35'-0"
24'-0"
2'-6"
19'-0"
5'-0"
TH1-C2 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
2050 FX
6050 SL O/
2050 FX
3046 FX
5046 SL
3046FX
3050 FX
3050 FX
3050 FX
13'-9"
14'-4" x
LIVING
9'-1" CLG
10'-0"
17'-7" x
DINING
9'-1" CLG
12'-5"
17'-7" x
KITCHEN
9'-1" CLG
37'-0"
2'-0"
37'-0"
2'-0"
COATS
9'-1" CLG
3046FX
3046FX
2880
2480
2480
3080
12080 SL DR
SUNROOM
Total travel distance
99'-1''
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
HATCH LEGEND

--- page 335 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.1.6
SHEET
UNIT PLANS-TH1_CX2
Total travel distance
99'-1''
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
PRIMARY
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
W/D
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
DN
15'-11"
5'-7"
13'-8 1/2"
37'-0"
24'-0"
21'-3 1/2"
2'-0"
2'-6"
24'-0"
19'-0"
5'-0"
6050 SL O/
2050 FX
TH1-CX2 THIRD FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
2050 FX
5050 SL
3050 SH
3050 FX
2020 FX
2040 SH
13'-5"
12'-7" x
PRIMARY BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG
10'-4"
10'-6" x
BED 2
9'-1" CLG
10'-7"
12'-4" x
BED 3
9'-1" CLG
2050 FX
36" x 78"
32" x 60"
LINEN
9'-1" CLG
9'-1" CLG
9'-1" CLG
HALL
9'-1" CLG.
2'-0"
35'-0"
37'-0"
2480
2880
2880
2480
2480
2680
2480
5280
5280
2680
SUNROOM
DN
UP
PANTRY
9'-1" CLG.
POWDER
9'-1" CLG.
15'-11"
5'-7"
24'-0"
13'-2 1/2"
21'-3 1/2"
35'-0"
24'-0"
2'-6"
19'-0"
5'-0"
TH1-CX2 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
2050 FX
6050 SL O/
2050 FX
3046 FX
5046 SL
3046FX
3050 FX
3050 FX
3050 FX
13'-9"
14'-4" x
LIVING
9'-1" CLG
10'-0"
17'-7" x
DINING
9'-1" CLG
12'-5"
17'-7" x
KITCHEN
9'-1" CLG
37'-0"
2'-0"
37'-0"
2'-0"
COATS
9'-1" CLG
3046FX
3046FX
6"
2880
2480
2480
3080
12080 SL DR
UP
33'-0"
37'-0"
21'-3 1/2"
12'-8 1/2"
6'-1"
12'-11"
5'-0"
TH1-CX2 FIRST FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
2040 SH
1640 FX
2040 FX
2040 SH
2040 SH
9'-7"
4'-10" x
OFFICE
8'-1" CLG
8'-7"
9'-4"
x
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG
20'-5"
23'-2" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
24'-0"
1'-0"
PATIO
UNCOVERED
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV.
T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
1'-0"
37'-0"
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
24'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
1'-0"
3070
2870
WH
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
2020 FX
24'-0"
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
HATCH LEGEND
1-HR. FIRE PARTITION

--- page 336 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.1.7
SHEET
UNIT PLANS-TH2_A1 & A2
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
HATCH LEGEND
1-HR. FIRE PARTITION
11'-0"
15'-2" x
PRIMARY BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
44'-0"
DN
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
WIC
9'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
9'-1" CLG.
PRIMARY
BATH
9'-1" CLG.
19'-10"
23'-2"
44'-0"
20'-0"
15'-6"
4'-6"
1'-0"
11'-0"
12'-3" x
BED 2
9'-1" CLG.
3'-11 1/2"
16'-0 1/2"
20'-0"
32" x 60"
TH2-A1 & A2 THIRD FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
6050 SL
5050 SL
2040 FX
HALL
9'-1" CLG.
9'-1" CLG.
9'-1" CLG.
LINEN
5280
2680
2680
5080
2480
2480
2880
3050 FX
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV. T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
20'-0"
20'-0"
41'-8"
15'-6"
8'-5"
11'-7"
UP
5'-4"
1'-0"
50'-0"
4'-6"
41'-3"
15'-7" x
TANDEM
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
26'-2"
21'-10"
50'-0"
5'-11"
7'-6"
x
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG
TH2-A1 & A2 FIRST FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
5040 SL
2040 FX
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
COATS
9'-1" CLG.
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
2'-0"
2'-0"
3070
2870
2470
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
WH
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
OFFICE
7'-11" CLG.
DECK
9'-1" CLG.
26'-2"
50'-0"
8'-6"
11'-6"
PANTRY
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 3
9'-1" CLG.
DN
UP
1'-0"
5'-4"
43'-8"
23'-10"
50'-0"
32" x 60"
12'-3"
15'-7" x
LIVING
9'-1" CLG
8'-4"
12'-7" x
DINING
9'-1" CLG
9'-5"
14'-7" x
KITCHEN
9'-1" CLG
10'-2"
9'-3"
x
BED 3
9'-1" CLG
TH2-A1 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
2040 SH
8080 SLIDING DOOR
5050 SL
9'-1" CLG.
9'-1" CLG.
4020 SL
3050 FX
20'-0"
15'-6"
4'-6"
20'-0"
2480
2680
2680
5080
Total travel distance
97'-11''
TH2-A2 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
SUNROOM
9'-1" CLG.
10080 SLIDING DOOR
OFFICE
7'-11" CLG.
8'-6"
11'-6"
1'-0"
5'-4"
2040 SH
8080 SLIDING DOOR
3050 FX
20'-0"

--- page 337 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.1.8
SHEET
UNIT PLANS-TH2_B1 & B2
46'-2"
46'-0"
16'-6"
36" x 76"
14'-8"
10'-8" x
PRIMARY BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
11'-0"
10'-0" x
BED 2
9'-1" CLG.
11'-0"
9'-10" x
BED 3
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
PRIMARY BATH
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
6050 SL O/
5020 FX
5050 SL
4'-0"
19'-4"
22'-8"
11'-7"
4'-11"
21'-0"
HALL
9'-1" CLG.
OPEN TO BELOW
9'-1" CLG.
LINEN
DN
5050 SL
2480
2480
2480
2880
2680
2480
2480
2680
4680
9'-1" CLG.
38'-0"
7'-0"
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV. T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
20'-9"
20'-1" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
13'-6"
11'-8" x
DEN
8'-1" CLG
5040 SL
46'-0"
4'-0"
19'-4"
21'-8"
46'-0"
11'-7"
4'-11"
16'-6"
21'-0"
COATS
8'-1" CLG
UP
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
1'-0"
1'-0"
3070
2870
2670
WH
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
2070
38'-0"
7'-0"
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV. T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
6'-9"
7'-10" x
OFFICE
8'-1" CLG
5040 SL
46'-0"
4'-0"
19'-4"
21'-8"
46'-0"
11'-7"
4'-11"
16'-6"
21'-0"
COATS
8'-1" CLG
POWDER
8'-1" CLG.
UP
20'-9"
20'-1" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
1'-0"
1'-0"
3070
3070
2670
WH
RECYCLE
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
TRASH
COMPOST
3070
DECK
9'-1" CLG
45'-6"
22'-8"
W/D
16'-11"
11'-1" x
LIVING
9'-1" CLG
10'-11"
14'-8" x
DINING
9'-1" CLG
8'-10"
14'-8" x
KITCHEN
9'-1" CLG
PANTRY
9'-1" CLG.
POWDER
9'-1" CLG.
2040 FX
6046  SL
8080 SLIDING DOOR
18'-10"
4'-0"
45'-6"
7'-0"
38'-6"
11'-7"
4'-11"
21'-0"
DN
UP
STUDY
7'-11" CLG
16'-6"
2480
2480
2880
3050 FX
Total travel distance
109'-3''
2040 FX
8080 SLIDING DOOR
4'-0"
7'-0"
11'-7"
4'-11"
STUDY
7'-11" CLG
16'-6"
10080 SLIDING DOOR
SUNROOM
9'-1" CLG
TH2-B2 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
TH2-B1 & B2 THIRD FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
TH2-B1 & B2 FIRST FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
TH2-B1 & B2 FIRST FLOOR (ADAPTABLE)
SCALE: 1/4
TH2-B1 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
HATCH LEGEND
1-HR. FIRE PARTITION

--- page 338 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.1.9
SHEET
UNIT PLANS-TH2_BX2
Total travel distance
109'-3''
36" x 76"
11'-0"
10'-0" x
BED 2
9'-1" CLG.
11'-0"
9'-10" x
BED 3
9'-1" CLG.
BATH 2
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
PRIMARY BATH
9'-1" CLG.
6050 SL O/
5020 FX
5050 SL
HALL
9'-1" CLG.
9'-1" CLG
9'-1" CLG
LINEN
5050 SL
5020 FX
2040 SH
5020 FX
3050 FX
46'-0"
46'-0"
17'-0"
4'-0"
19'-4"
22'-8"
12'-1"
4'-11"
21'-0"
2480
2480
2880
2680
2480
2480
2680
4680
14'-8"
10'-8" x
PRIMARY BEDROOM
9'-1" CLG.
W.I.C.
9'-1" CLG.
HALL
9'-1" CLG.
OPEN TO BELOW
DN
2480
SUNROOM
9'-1" CLG
W/D
16'-11"
11'-1" x
LIVING
9'-1" CLG
10'-11"
14'-8" x
DINING
9'-1" CLG
8'-10"
14'-8" x
KITCHEN
9'-1" CLG
PANTRY
9'-1" CLG.
POWDER
9'-1" CLG.
2040 FX
6046 SL
8080 SLIDING DOOR
DN
UP
STUDY
7'-11" CLG
3050 FX
3050 FX
3050 FX
3050 FX
45'-6"
18'-10"
4'-0"
45'-6"
7'-0"
12'-1"
4'-11"
21'-0"
38'-6"
17'-0"
22'-8"
2480
2880
2880
3050 FX
5050 SL
8050 XOX
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV. T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
20'-9"
20'-1" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
13'-6"
11'-8" x
DEN
8'-1" CLG
5040 SL
COATS
8'-1" CLG
UP
5020 FX
38'-0"
5'-0"
46'-0"
2'-0"
19'-4"
21'-8"
46'-0"
12'-1"
4'-11"
21'-0"
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
1'-0"
6"
17'-0"
1'-0"
2'-0"
2'-0"
WH
RECYCLE
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
TRASH
COMPOST
3070
2870
2070
2670
2020 FX
2020 FX
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV. T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
20'-9"
20'-1" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
13'-6"
11'-8" x
DEN
8'-1" CLG
5040 SL
COATS
8'-1" CLG
UP
5020 FX
38'-0"
5'-0"
44'-0"
2'-0"
19'-4"
21'-8"
46'-0"
11'-7"
4'-11"
17'-0"
21'-0"
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
1'-0"
1'-0"
6"
2'-0"
3070
2870
2070
2670
WH
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BIKE SPACE
6'-0" X 2'-6"
TH2-BX2 THIRD FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
TH2-BX2 SECOND FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
TH2-BX2 FIRST FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
TH2-BX2 (Closet): FIRST FLOOR
SCALE: 1/4
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
HATCH LEGEND
1-HR. FIRE PARTITION

--- page 339 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.2.1
SHEET
FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS
PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE
HATCH LEGEND
GROSS FLOOR AREA
0
8
16
32
48
FEET
Product
Plan Name
Floor 1 
Area / Unit 
(Sq.Ft.)
Floor 2 Area 
/ Unit 
(Sq.Ft.)
Floor 3 Area 
/ Unit 
(Sq.Ft.)
Garage 
Area / Unit 
(Sq. Ft.)
Utility Area / 
Unit (Sq.Ft.)
Gross Floor 
Area / Unit 
(Sq. Ft.)
Total Gross 
Floor Area 
(Sq. Ft.)
A1
171.1
594.2
639.2
491.7
n/a
1896.2
18,962
A(Acc)1
171.1
594.2
639.2
491.7
n/a
1896.2
18,962
B1
200.3
627.8
748.7
468.6
n/a
2045.4
73,634
C2
194.2
797.6
761.2
482.7
64.7
2300.4
41,408
CX2
194.2
797.6
761.2
547.4
n/a
2300.4
41,408
194,374
A1
93.1
750.1
694.8
698.8
n/a
2236.8
84,998
A2
93.1
826.7
694.8
698.8
n/a
2313.4
27,761
B1
256.7
689.2
794.4
483.5
n/a
2223.8
22,238
B2
256.7
772.0
794.4
483.5
n/a
2306.6
6,920
B1(Acc)
256.7
689.2
794.4
483.5
n/a
2223.8
17,790
B2(Acc)
256.7
772.0
794.4
483.5
n/a
2306.6
6,920
BX2
255.5
771.2
794.4
481.5
n/a
2302.6
29,934
BX2 (Closet)
255.5
771.2
794.4
481.5
62.5
2365.1
30,746
227,308
A1
359.5
842.8
850.1
473.7
n/a
2526.1
42,944
A2
359.5
957.9
850.1
473.7
n/a
2641.2
39,618
B1
425.1
879.4
869.2
493.1
n/a
2666.8
48,002
B2
425.1
965.6
869.2
493.1
n/a
2753.0
38,542
169,106
590,788
TH 1
TH 2
SFD
FLOOR AREA CALCULATIONS PER SAN MATEO ZONING CODE
Project Total
FLOOR 1
FLOOR 1
FLOOR 1
B(ACC)
FLOOR 1
A(ACC)
FLOOR 1
A1
FLOOR 2
B1
FLOOR 2
FLOOR 2
FLOOR 2
FLOOR 2
FLOOR 2
FLOOR 2
A1
FLOOR 2
B1
FLOOR 2
B2
FLOOR 2
A1
FLOOR 2
A2
FLOOR 2
B2
FLOOR 2
FLOOR 1
FLOOR 1
FLOOR 1
FLOOR 1
FLOOR 1
A2
FLOOR 2
B
FLOOR 1
A
FLOOR 1
FLOOR 3
FLOOR 3
FLOOR 3
FLOOR 3
FLOOR 3
FLOOR 3
FLOOR 3
FLOOR 3
FLOOR 3
FLOOR 3
2
BX2 (CLOSET)
2
2

--- page 340 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.3.1
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
BUILDING PLANS - TH1_4PLEX
PT.1
WH
WH
WH
24'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
90'-6"
21'-0"
24'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
2"
90'-6"
35'-0"
35'-0"
2"
2"
WH
24'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
90'-6"
21'-0"
24'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
2"
90'-6"
38'-0"
38'-0"
2"
2"
TOWNHOUSE 1 4-PLEX FIRST FLOOR PLAN
TOWNHOUSE 1 4-PLEX SECOND FLOOR PLAN
TH1-C2
TH1-C2
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-CX2
TH1-CX2

--- page 341 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
A.3.2
PT.2
2680
2880
4880
2680
2680
4080
2680
5080
5080
2680
2680
2880
4880
2680
2680
4080
2680
5080
5080
2680
24'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
90'-6"
21'-0"
24'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
2"
90'-6"
38'-0"
38'-0"
2"
2"
5'-0"
91'-9"
81'-9"
5'-0"
91'-9"
40'-0 1/2"
40'-0 1/2"
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
4:12
1'-5"
7 1/2"
4 1/2"
1'-0"
7 1/2"
1'-5"
68'-0"
4'-0"
84'-0"
SLOPE
4:12
8'-0"
TOWNHOUSE 1 4-PLEX THIRD FLOOR PLAN
TOWNHOUSE 1 4-PLEX ROOF PLAN
HATCH LEGEND
SOLAR ZONE AREA
BUILDING PLANS - TH1_4PLEX
TH1-C2
TH1-C2
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-CX2
TH1-CX2

--- page 342 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
BUILDING PLANS - TH1_5PLEX_ADA
A.3.3
PT.1
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
111'-8"
21'-0"
24'-0"
21'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
111'-8"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
37'-0"
37'-0"
2"
2"
2"
2"
WH
WH
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
111'-8"
21'-0"
35'-0"
24'-0"
21'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
112'-6"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
35'-0"
WH
WH
2"
2"
2"
WH
TOWNHOUSE 1 5-PLEX_ADA FIRST FLOOR PLAN
TOWNHOUSE 1 5-PLEX_ADA SECOND FLOOR PLAN
TH1-C2
TH1-C2
TH1-A(ACC)1
TH1-A(ACC)1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-CX2
TH1-CX2

--- page 343 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
A.3.4
PT.2
HATCH LEGEND
SOLAR ZONE AREA
BUILDING PLANS - TH1_5PLEX_ADA
2680
2880
4880
2680
2680
4080
2680
5080
5080
2680
2680
2880
4880
2680
2680
4080
2680
5080
5080
2680
21'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
111'-8"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
111'-8"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
37'-0"
37'-0"
2"
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
5'-0"
112'-9"
32'-11"
112'-9"
40'-0 1/2"
40'-0 1/2"
1'-5"
7 1/2"
4 1/2"
1'-0"
7 1/2"
5'-0"
7'-0 1/2"
62'-9 1/2"
1'-5"
7 1/2"
1'-5"
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
3'-0"
104'-0"
12'-0"
8'-0"
TOWNHOUSE 1 5-PLEX_ADA THIRD FLOOR PLAN
TOWNHOUSE 1 5-PLEX_ADA ROOF PLAN
TH1-C2
TH1-C2
TH1-A(ACC)1
TH1-A(ACC)1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-CX2
TH1-CX2

--- page 344 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
BUILDING PLANS TH1_6PLEX
A.3.5
PT.1
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
132'-10"
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
38'-0"
38'-0"
24'-0"
132'-10"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
WH
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
132'-10"
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
132'-10"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
35'-0"
35'-0"
WH
2"
2"
2"
WH
WH
21'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
2"
WH
WH
TOWNHOUSE 1 6-PLEX FIRST FLOOR PLAN
TOWNHOUSE 1 6-PLEX SECOND FLOOR PLAN
TH1-C2
TH1-C2
TH1-A1
TH1-A1
TH1-A1
TH1-A1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-CX2
TH1-CX2

--- page 345 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
A.3.6
PT.1
HATCH LEGEND
SOLAR ZONE AREA
BUILDING PLANS TH1_6PLEX
2680
2880
4880
2680
2680
4080
2680
5080
5080
2680
2680
2880
4880
2680
2680
4080
2680
5080
5080
2680
21'-0"
21'-1"
2"
24'-0"
132'-10"
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
2"
24'-0"
2"
21'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
38'-0"
38'-0"
24'-0"
132'-10"
2"
2"
2"
2"
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
5'-0"
134'-1"
54'-1"
134'-1"
40'-0 1/2"
40'-0 1/2"
1'-5"
7 1/2"
4 1/2"
1'-0"
7 1/2"
5'-0"
15'-11"
54'-1"
1'-5"
7 1/2"
4 1/2"
7 1/2"
4'-0"
128'-0"
8'-0"
SLOPE
4:12
TOWNHOUSE 1 6-PLEX THIRD FLOOR PLAN
TOWNHOUSE 1 6-PLEX ROOF PLAN
TH1-C2
TH1-C2
TH1-A1
TH1-A1
TH1-A1
TH1-A1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-CX2
TH1-CX2

--- page 346 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
A.3.7
PT.1
BUILDING PLANS TH1_6PLEX_ADA
WH
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
132'-10"
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
132'-10"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
35'-0"
35'-0"
WH
2020 FX
2040 FX
3070
     3070
3070
WH
2"
2"
2"
WH
WH
21'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
2"
WH
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
132'-10"
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
24'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
38'-0"
38'-0"
24'-0"
132'-10"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
2"
TOWNHOUSE 1 6-PLEX_ADA FIRST FLOOR PLAN
TOWNHOUSE 1 6-PLEX_ADA SECOND FLOOR PLAN
TH1-C2
TH1-C2
TH1-A1
TH1-A1
TH1-A(ACC)1
TH1-A1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-CX2
TH1-CX2

--- page 347 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
A.3.8
PT.2
HATCH LEGEND
SOLAR ZONE AREA
BUILDING PLANS TH1_6PLEX_ADA
2680
2880
4880
2680
2680
4080
2680
5080
5080
2680
2680
2880
4880
2680
2680
4080
2680
5080
5080
2680
21'-0"
21'-1"
2"
24'-0"
132'-10"
21'-0"
21'-0"
2"
2"
24'-0"
2"
21'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
21'-0"
24'-0"
2"
38'-0"
38'-0"
24'-0"
132'-10"
2"
2"
2"
2"
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
8:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
5'-0"
134'-1"
54'-1"
134'-1"
40'-0 1/2"
40'-0 1/2"
1'-5"
7 1/2"
4 1/2"
1'-0"
7 1/2"
5'-0"
15'-11"
54'-1"
1'-5"
7 1/2"
4 1/2"
7 1/2"
4'-0"
128'-0"
8'-0"
SLOPE
4:12
TOWNHOUSE 1 6-PLEX_ADA THIRD FLOOR PLAN
TOWNHOUSE 1 6-PLEX_ADA ROOF PLAN
TH1-C2
TH1-C2
TH1-A1
TH1-A1
TH1-A(ACC)1
TH1-A1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-B1
TH1-CX2
TH1-CX2

--- page 348 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
BUILDING PLANS - TH2_6PLEX
A.3.9
PT.1
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
WH
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
43'-0"
16'-6"
20'-0"
21'-0"
113'-7 1/2"
15'-6"
3'-3 1/2"
113'-7 1/2"
3'-3 1/2"
43'-0"
2"
2"
21'-0"
15'-6"
2"
2"
15'-6"
2"
21'-0"
2"
2"
16'-6"
20'-0"
2"
2"
20'-0"
2"
16'-6"
WH
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
WH
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
50'-0"
50'-0"
21'-0"
110'-4"
15'-6"
2"
2"
21'-0"
15'-6"
2"
2"
15'-6"
2"
21'-0"
17'-0"
20'-0"
111'-4"
2"
2"
16'-6"
20'-0"
2"
2"
20'-0"
2"
17'-0"
TOWNHOUSE 2 6-PLEX FIRST FLOOR PLAN
TOWNHOUSE 2 6-PLEX SECOND FLOOR PLAN
TH2-BX2
(CLOSET)
TH2-BX2
(CLOSET)
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-B1
TH2-B1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-BX2
TH2-BX2

--- page 349 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
A.3.10
PT.2
HATCH LEGEND
SOLAR ZONE AREA
BUILDING PLANS - TH2_6PLEX
47'-0"
47'-0"
21'-0"
110'-4"
15'-6"
2"
2"
21'-0"
15'-6"
2"
2"
15'-6"
2"
21'-0"
17'-0"
20'-0"
111'-4"
2"
2"
16'-6"
20'-0"
2"
2"
20'-0"
2"
17'-0"
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
2'-11 1/2"
116'-1 1/2"
21'-10"
116'-1 1/2"
48'-5"
1'-5"
1'-5"
21'-10"
16'-4"
20'-6"
1'-5"
1"
32'-8"
48'-5"
1'-5"
9"
1'-5"
1'-5"
16'-0"
96'-0"
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
TOWNHOUSE 2 6-PLEX THIRD FLOOR PLAN
TOWNHOUSE 2 6-PLEX ROOF PLAN
TH2-BX2
(CLOSET)
TH2-BX2
(CLOSET)
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-B1
TH2-B1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-BX2
TH2-BX2

--- page 350 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
BUILDING PLANS - TH2_8PLEX_ADA
A.3.11
PT.1
50'-0"
50'-0"
21'-0"
15'-6"
2"
2"
21'-0"
15'-6"
2"
2"
15'-6"
2"
21'-0"
17'-0"
20'-0"
2"
2"
16'-6"
20'-0"
2"
2"
20'-0"
2"
16'-6"
2"
15'-6"
2"
21'-0"
2"
20'-0"
2"
17'-0"
147'-2"
148'-2"
TOWNHOUSE 2 8-PLEX_ADA SECOND FLOOR PLAN
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
WH
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
48'-0"
16'-6"
20'-0"
21'-0"
15'-6"
3'-3 1/2"
150'-5 1/2"
3'-3 1/2"
48'-0"
21'-0"
15'-6"
2"
15'-6"
21'-0"
2"
2"
16'-6"
20'-0"
2"
2"
20'-0"
2"
16'-6"
WH
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
WH
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
15'-6"
21'-0"
2"
20'-0"
2"
16'-0"
WH
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TOWNHOUSE 2 8-PLEX_ADA FIRST FLOOR PLAN
TH2-BX2
(CLOSET)
TH2-BX2
(CLOSET)
TH2-B1
(ACC)
TH2-B1
(ACC)
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-B1
TH2-B1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-BX2
TH2-BX2

--- page 351 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
BUILDING PLANS - TH2_8PLEX_ADA 
A.3.12
PT.2
50'-0"
50'-0"
21'-0"
15'-6"
2"
2"
21'-0"
15'-6"
2"
2"
15'-6"
2"
21'-0"
17'-0"
20'-0"
2"
2"
16'-6"
20'-0"
2"
2"
20'-0"
2"
16'-6"
2"
15'-6"
2"
21'-0"
2"
20'-0"
2"
17'-0"
147'-2"
148'-2"
TOWNHOUSE 2 8-PLEX_ 2_ADA SECOND FLOOR PLAN
TH2-BX2
(CLOSET)
TH2-B2
(ACC)
TH2-A2
TH2-B2
TH2-A2
TH2-A2
TH2-A2
TH2-BX2

--- page 352 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
A.3.13
PT.3
HATCH LEGEND
SOLAR ZONE AREA
BUILDING PLANS - TH2_8PLEX_ADA
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
SLOPE
4:12
2'-11 1/2"
152'-11 1/2"
21'-10"
152'-11 1/2"
48'-5"
20'-6"
16'-4"
20'-6"
1"
32'-8"
48'-5"
1'-5"
1'-5"
1'-5"
16'-4"
21'-10"
1'-5"
1'-5"
9"
9"
136'-0"
16'-0"
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
SLOPE
1/2:12
TOWNHOUSE 2 8-PLEX_ADA ROOF PLAN
47'-0"
47'-0"
21'-6"
148'-8"
15'-6"
2"
2"
21'-0"
15'-6"
2"
2"
15'-6"
2"
21'-6"
17'-0"
20'-0"
2"
2"
16'-6"
20'-0"
2"
2"
20'-0"
2"
16'-6"
2"
15'-6"
2"
21'-6"
2"
20'-0"
2"
17'-0"
148'-2"
TOWNHOUSE 2 8-PLEX_ADA THIRD FLOOR PLAN
TH2-BX2
(CLOSET)
TH2-BX2
(CLOSET)
TH2-B1
(ACC)
TH2-B1
(ACC)
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-B1
TH2-B1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-A1
TH2-BX2
TH2-BX2

--- page 353 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
UP
SLOPING
CLG.
8'-0"
12'-10"
7'-8"
x
ENTRY
8'-1" CLG
12'-0"
11'-1" x
BED 4
8'-1" CLG
BATH 3
8'-1" CLG.
STORAGE
32" x 60"
W.I.C.
8'-1" CLG.
20'-4"
21'-7" x
2 - CAR GARAGE
8'-1" CLG
39'-0"
49'-0"
8'-0"
3'-6"
35'-6"
49'-0"
14'-6"
8'-0"
22'-6"
22'-6"
PORCH
8'-1" CLG ABV.
T.O.S. @ 1ST FLR
3050 SH
3050 SH
2050 FX
2050 FX
2050 FX
2020 FX
2020 FX
4020 SL
3050 SH
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
10' x 18' CLEAR FOR PARKING
WH
TRASH
RECYCLE COMPOST
1'-0"
1'-0"
2'-0"
3070
2870
2470
2470
2670
10'-6"
12'-0"
Total travel distance
95'-11''
A.4.1
SHEET
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
BUILDING SECTIONS
PT.1
T.O.P.
8'-1"
9'-1"
T.O.S.F.
T.O.P.
T.O.SLAB/T.O.C.
T.O.P.
9'-1"
T.O.S.F.
7'-0"
T.O. WDW
8'-0"
T.O. WDW
8'-0"
T.O. WDW
BED 4
W.I.C.
2-CAR GARAGE
PORCH
LIVING
KITCHEN
DINING
PRIMARY 
BEDROOM
PRIMARY 
BATH
BATH 2
BED 3
1'-2 3/4"
1'-2 3/4"
6"
 FROM PROPOSED GRADE
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM
PROPOSED GRADE
9.5' PROPOSED GRADE
7.2' EXISTING GRADE
2'-4"
FROM EXISTING GRADE
36'-2"
31'-7"
29'-2 1/2"
10.0'
SUNROOM
T.O.P.
8'-1"
9'-1"
T.O.S.F.
T.O.P.
T.O.SLAB/T.O.C.
T.O.P.
9'-1"
T.O.S.F.
1'-2 3/4"
1'-2 3/4"
6"
2-CAR GARAGE
PORCH
PANTRY
POCKET
OFFICE
BATH 2
BED 3
STORAGE
ENTRY
LAUNDRY
POWDER
SUNROOM
 FROM PROPOSED GRADE
29'-2 1/2"
31'-8"
FROM EXISTING GRADE
7'-5"
9.6' PROPOSED GRADE
7.2' EXISTING GRADE
10.1'
2'-5"
36'-8" HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM
PROPOSED GRADE
18'-9" (B-B)
20'-0 1/4"
POP OUT FACE OF FINISH
4"
17'-9"
15'-9" x
LIVING
9'-1" CLG
10'-3"
15'-2" x
DINING
9'-1" CLG
14'-6"
15'-2" x
KITCHEN
9'-1" CLG
POWDER
9'-1" CLG.
LAUNDRY
9'-1" CLG.
PANTRY
9'-1" CLG.
POCKET OFFICE
9'-1" CLG.
3050 SH
5050 FX
3050 FX
3050 SH
3050 SH
2050 SH
2650 FX
5050 FX
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 SH
3050 FX
2050 FX
2050 SH
2050 SH
2050 SH
10'-11"
11'-7"
22'-6"
29'-3"
4'-6"
49'-4"
13'-0"
10'-0"
23'-0"
4'-10"
10"
42'-4"
2'-2"
4'-10"
49'-4"
DECK
9'-1" CLG.
9'-11"
SFD A2_SECTION A
SFD B2_SECTION A

--- page 354 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.4.2
SHEET
0
2
4
8
12
FEET
BUILDING SECTIONS
PT.2
T.O.P.
8'-1"
9'-1"
T.O.S.F.
T.O.P.
T.O.SLAB/T.O.C.
T.O.P.
9'-1"
T.O.S.F.
1'-2 3/4"
1'-2 3/4"
STORAGE
2-CAR GARAGE
DINING
COAT PANTRY
BATH 3
BED 3
HALL
W.I.C.
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
6'-4 1/4"
T.O. RIDGE
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM
PROPOSED GRADE
10.0' PROPOSED GRADE
7.5' EXISTING GRADE
10.5'
2'-6"
6"
29'-2 1/4"
31'-9"
35'-7"
T.O.P.
8'-1"
9'-1"
T.O.S.F.
T.O.P.
T.O.SLAB/T.O.C.
T.O.P.
9'-1"
T.O.S.F.
1'-2 3/4"
1'-2 3/4"
10"
COAT
2-CAR GARAGE
BED 3
W.I.C.
OFFICE
STUDY
HALL
BATH 2
DINING
KITCHEN
7'-6 1/2"
T.O. RIDGE
PORCH
FROM EXISTING GRADE
29'-6 1/2"
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
33'-5"
10.5' PROPOSED GRADE
6 6' EXISTING GRADE
11.3'
3'-11"
37'-1"
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM
PROPOSED GRADE
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
WH
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
WH
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
TRASH
RECYCLE
COMPOST
WH
WH
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
WH
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
WH
WH
2020 FX
2040 FX
3070
     3070
3070
WH
2"
WH
WH
WH
TH1 - 6PLEX_SECTION A  
TH2 - 8PLEX 2_SECTION A

--- page 355 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
ELEVATIONS -SFD: PLAN A1
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 1
A.5.1
SHEET
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.1 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
6
12
6
12
6
12
6
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 9"
30' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.5'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 2"
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 9"
30' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.5'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 2"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 9"
30' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.5'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 2"
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 9"
30' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.5'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 2"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 356 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
ELEVATIONS -SFD: PLAN A2
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 1
A.5.2
SHEET
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.1 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
6
12
6
12
6
12
6
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 8"
30' 10"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.8'
9.4'
9.9'
36' 2"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 8"
30' 10"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.8'
9.4'
9.9'
36' 2"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 8"
30' 10"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.8'
9.4'
9.9'
36' 2"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 8"
30' 10"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.8'
9.4'
9.9'
36' 2"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 357 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
ELEVATIONS -SFD: PLAN A1
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 2
A.5.3
SHEET
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.2 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
6
12
6
12
6
12
6
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 0"
31' 3"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
6.8'
8.8'
9.3'
36' 2"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 0"
31' 3"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
6.8'
8.8'
9.3'
36' 2"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 0"
31' 3"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
6.8'
8.8'
9.3'
36' 2"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 0"
31' 3"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
6.8'
8.8'
9.3'
36' 2"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 358 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
ELEVATIONS -SFD: PLAN A2
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 2
A.5.4
SHEET
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.2 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
6
12
6
12
6
12
6
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 4"
31' 7"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.2'
9.5'
10.0'
36' 2"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 4"
31' 7"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.2'
9.5'
10.0'
36' 2"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 4"
31' 7"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.2'
9.5'
10.0'
36' 2"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 4"
31' 7"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 11 1/2"
7.2'
9.5'
10.0'
36' 2"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 359 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.5.5
SHEET
ELEVATIONS -SFD: PLAN B1
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 1
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.3 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
3
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
1' 9"
30' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.5'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
1' 9"
30' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.5'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
1' 9"
30' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.5'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
1' 9"
30' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.5'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 8"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 360 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.5.6
SHEET
ELEVATIONS -SFD: PLAN B2
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 1
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.3 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
3
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
4"
29' 7"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
8.9'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 8"
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
4"
29' 7"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
8.9'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 8"
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
4"
29' 7"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
8.9'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 8"
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
4"
29' 7"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
8.9'
9.2'
9.7'
36' 8"
EXISTING GRADE
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 361 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.5.7
SHEET
ELEVATIONS -SFD: PLAN B1
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 2
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.4 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION. 
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
3
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
1' 2"
30' 4"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.8'
8.9'
9.4'
36' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
1' 2"
30' 4"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.8'
8.9'
9.4'
36' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
1' 2"
30' 4"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.8'
8.9'
9.4'
36' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 3"
1' 2"
30' 4"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.8'
8.9'
9.4'
36' 8"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 362 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.5.8
SHEET
ELEVATIONS -SFD: PLAN B2
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 2
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.4 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
3
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 5"
31' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.2'
9.6'
10.1'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 5"
31' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.2'
9.6'
10.1'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 5"
31' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.2'
9.6'
10.1'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 5"
31' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7' 5"
7.2'
9.6'
10.1'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 8"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 363 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.5.9
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
ELEVATIONS -TH 1: 4-PLEX
COLOR SCHEME 1
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.5 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
8
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 6"
30' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.6'
9.1'
9.6'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 6"
30' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.6'
9.1'
9.6'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 6"
30' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.6'
9.1'
9.6'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 6"
30' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.6'
9.1'
9.6'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 364 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.5.10
SHEET
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
ELEVATIONS -TH 1: 4-PLEX
COLOR SCHEME 2
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.5 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
8
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 6"
30' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
9.0'
9.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 6"
30' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
9.0'
9.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 6"
30' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
9.0'
9.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
1' 6"
30' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
9.0'
9.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 365 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
ELEVATIONS -TH 1: 5-PLEX
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 1
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.5 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
A.5.11
8
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 5"
31' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.6'
10.0'
10.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 5"
31' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.6'
10.0'
10.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 5"
31' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.6'
10.0'
10.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 5"
31' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.6'
10.0'
10.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 7"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 366 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
ELEVATIONS -TH 1: 5-PLEX
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 2
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.5 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
A.5.12
31' 1/4"
31' 1/4"
31' 1/4"
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 4 1/2"
1' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
8"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
9.1'
9.7'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 4 1/2"
1' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
8"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
9.1'
9.7'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 4 1/2"
1' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
8"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
9.1'
9.7'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 8"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 4 1/2"
1' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
8"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
9.1'
9.7'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 8"
31' 1/4"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 367 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
ELEVATIONS -TH 1: 6-PLEX
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 1
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.5 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
A.5.13
8
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 4 1/2"
1' 5"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
8"
6' 4 1/4"
7.8'
9.2'
9.8'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 8"
30' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 4 1/2"
1' 5"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
8"
6' 4 1/4"
7.8'
9.2'
9.8'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 8"
30' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 4 1/2"
1' 5"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
8"
6' 4 1/4"
7.8'
9.2'
9.8'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 8"
30' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 4 1/2"
1' 5"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
8"
6' 4 1/4"
7.8'
9.2'
9.8'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
35' 8"
30' 9"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 368 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
SHEET
ELEVATIONS -TH 1: 6-PLEX
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 2
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.5 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
A.5.14
8
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
8
12
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/4"
2' 6"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
10.0'
10.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
31' 9"
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/4"
2' 6"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
10.0'
10.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
31' 9"
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/4"
2' 6"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
10.0'
10.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
31' 9"
35' 7"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
29' 2 1/4"
2' 6"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6' 4 1/4"
7.5'
10.0'
10.5'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
31' 9"
35' 7"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 369 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
ELEVATIONS -TH 2: 6-PLEX
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 2
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.8 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4
A.5.15
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
7.1'
10.5'
11.0'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 5"
32' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7.1'
10.5'
11.0'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 5"
32' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7.1'
10.5'
11.0'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 5"
32' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7.1'
10.5'
11.0'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 5"
32' 8"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 370 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
ELEVATIONS -TH 2: 8-PLEX
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 1
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.7 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
A.5.16
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
7.8'
10.8'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 0"
32' 3"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7.8'
10.8'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 0"
32' 3"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7.8'
10.8'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 0"
32' 3"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
7.8'
10.8'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 0"
32' 3"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 371 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
ELEVATIONS -TH 2: 8-PLEX 2
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 1
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.7 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
A.5.17
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
6.6'
10.1'
10.6'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 6"
32' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6.6'
10.1'
10.6'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 6"
32' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6.6'
10.1'
10.6'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 6"
32' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
6.6'
10.1'
10.6'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
3' 6"
32' 9"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 372 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
ELEVATIONS -TH 2: 8-PLEX
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 2
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.8 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
A.5.18
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
8.1'
10.8'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 9"
31' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
8.1'
10.8'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 9"
31' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
8.1'
10.8'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 9"
31' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
8.1'
10.8'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 9"
31' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
8.1'
10.8'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 9"
31' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
8.1'
10.8'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
36' 9"
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 2 1/2"
2' 9"
31' 11"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
6"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 373 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
ELEVATIONS -TH 2: 8-PLEX 2
0
4
8
16
24
FEET
COLOR SCHEME 2
NOTES:
1. ALL EXTERIOR LIGHTING FIXTURES INCLUDE TOP COVERS.
2. NO PORTION OF LIGHTING FIXTURES WILL BE MOUNTED ABOVE THE ROOF OR PARAPET OF THE BUILDING.
3. REFER TO SHEET A.6.8 FOR COLOR & MATERIALS INFORMATION.
4. GRADE AND SLAB ELEVATIONS ARE BASED ON TALLEST BUILDING OF EACH TYPE. SEE SHEET C3.0 - C3.4 FOR TALLEST BUILDING LOCATIONS.
A.5.19
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
4
12
37' 1"
37' 1"
37' 1"
37' 1"
6.6'
10.5'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 6 1/2"
3' 11"
33' 5"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
10"
6.6'
10.5'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 6 1/2"
3' 11"
33' 5"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
10"
6.6'
10.5'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 6 1/2"
3' 11"
33' 5"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
10"
6.6'
10.5'
11.3'
HIGHEST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED 
GRADE
T.O.P
T.O.S.F
T.O.S.F
T.O.P
T.O. RIDGE
FROM PROPOSED GRADE
T.O. SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE
EXISTING GRADE
T.O.P
FROM EXISTING GRADE
8' 1"
9' 1"
9' 1"
7' 6 1/2"
29' 6 1/2"
3' 11"
33' 5"
1' 2 3/4"
1' 2 3/4"
10"
FRONT ELEVATION
REAR ELEVATION
RIGHT ELEVATION
LEFT ELEVATION

--- page 374 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.6.1
SHEET
COLOR & MATERIALS-SFD_A_CS1
MATERIALS
COLORS
BODY MATERIAL 3
STUCCO
SAND FINISH
BODY MATERIAL 2
HARDIE PLANK
SIDING
SMOOTH - JAMES HARDIE
BODY MATERIAL 1
BOARD & BATTEN
JAMES HARDIE
ROOF MATERIAL
GAF ASPHALT 
SHINGLES
CHARCOAL - TIMERLINE SERIES
A
D
C
B
TH 1_COLOR SCHEME 1
WINDOW
VINYL - WHITE V250 STYLE LINE
HORIZONTAL SLIDER
MILGARD
DOOR
SMOOTH FINISH
THERMA-TRU
RAILING
FACE MOUNTED
METAL RAILING
LAMP
CYLINDER 2 LIGHT 12” 
TALL OUTDOOR SCONE
KICHLER
E
F
G
H
C3
C3
3
3
3
E
F5
G
A
A
D1
D1
B2
B2
E
2
4
4
BODY COLOR 1
GRIS
SW 7659 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
1
BODY COLOR 2
PURE WHITE
SW 7005 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 3 
PEPPERCORN
SW 7674 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 4 
BLACK MAGIC
SW 6991 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
ACCENT COLOR 1 
ALCHEMY
SW 6395 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
2
3
4
5
NOTES:
1. NO MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT OTHER THAN SOLAR PANELS ARE PROPOSED ON ROOFS.
2. NO GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR EQUIPMENT IS PROPOSED.
3. REFLECTIVE GLASS WILL NOT BE USED IN WINDOWS.
4. MANUFACTURERS ARE NOTED FOR DESIGN INTENT. FINAL SELECTIONS WILL BE CONFIRMED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT.

--- page 375 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.6.2
SHEET
COLOR & MATERIALS-SFD_A_CS2
MATERIALS
COLORS
BODY MATERIAL 3
STUCCO
SAND FINISH
BODY MATERIAL 2
HARDIE PLANK
SIDING
SMOOTH - JAMES HARDIE
ROOF MATERIAL
GAF ASPHALT 
SHINGLES
CHARCOAL - TIMERLINE SERIES
A
D
C
TH 1_COLOR SCHEME 2
DOOR
SMOOTH FINISH
THERMA-TRU
RAILING
FACE MOUNTED
METAL RAILING
LAMP
CYLINDER 2 LIGHT 12” 
TALL OUTDOOR SCONE
KICHLER
E
F
G
H
BODY COLOR 1 
ALAEA
SW 7579 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
1
BODY COLOR 2
PURE WHITE
SW 7005 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 3 
BLACK MAGIC
SW 6991 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
ACCENT COLOR 1 
ALCHEMY
SW 6395 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
2
3
4
C3
C3
3
3
3
E
F4
G
A
A
D2
D2
B1
B1
E
1
1
BODY MATERIAL 1
HARDIE PANEL
SIDING
SIERRA 8 - JAMES HARDIE
B
NOTES:
1. NO MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT OTHER THAN SOLAR PANELS ARE PROPOSED ON ROOFS.
2. NO GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR EQUIPMENT IS PROPOSED.
3. REFLECTIVE GLASS WILL NOT BE USED IN WINDOWS.
4. MANUFACTURERS ARE NOTED FOR DESIGN INTENT. FINAL SELECTIONS WILL BE CONFIRMED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT.
WINDOW
VINYL - WHITE V250 STYLE LINE
HORIZONTAL SLIDER
MILGARD

--- page 376 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.6.3
SHEET
COLOR & MATERIALS-SFD_B_CS1
MATERIALS
COLORS
BODY MATERIAL 3
STUCCO
SAND FINISH
BODY MATERIAL 2
HARDIE PLANK
SIDING
CEDARMILL - JAMES HARDIE
ROOF MATERIAL
GAF ASPHALT 
SHINGLES
SHAKEWOOD - TIMERLINE SERIES
A
C
B
TH 2_COLOR SCHEME 1
DOOR
SMOOTH FINISH
THERMA-TRU
RAILING
FACE MOUNTED
METAL RAILING
LAMP
CYLINDER 2 LIGHT 12” 
TALL OUTDOOR SCONE
KICHLER
D
E
F
G
BODY COLOR 2 
COLONNADE GRAY
SW 7641 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 1 
MOUNTAIN CEDAR
RUSTICSERIES BY WOODTONE
2
1
BODY COLOR 3
SLATE TILE
SW 7624 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 4 
BLACK MAGIC
SW 6991 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
ACCENT COLOR 1 
BORSCHET
SW 7578 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
3
4
5
B3
C2
B3
3
3
3
4
E5
G
F
A
A
B1
4
B1
C2
D
4
4
D
NOTES:
1. NO MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT OTHER THAN SOLAR PANELS ARE PROPOSED ON ROOFS.
2. NO GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR EQUIPMENT IS PROPOSED.
3. REFLECTIVE GLASS WILL NOT BE USED IN WINDOWS.
4. MANUFACTURERS ARE NOTED FOR DESIGN INTENT. FINAL SELECTIONS WILL BE CONFIRMED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT.
WINDOW
VINYL - WHITE V250 STYLE LINE
HORIZONTAL SLIDER
MILGARD

--- page 377 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.6.4
SHEET
COLOR & MATERIALS-SFD_B_CS2
MATERIALS
COLORS
BODY MATERIAL 3
STUCCO
SAND FINISH
BODY MATERIAL 2
HARDIE PLANK
SIDING
SMOOTH - JAMES HARDIE
D
C
TH 2_COLOR SCHEME 2
DOOR
SMOOTH FINISH
THERMA-TRU
RAILING
FACE MOUNTED
METAL RAILING
LAMP
CYLINDER 2 LIGHT 12” 
TALL OUTDOOR SCONE
KICHLER
E
F
G
H
BODY COLOR 2 
COLONNADE GRAY
SW 7641 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 1 
RETREAT
SW 6207 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
2
1
BODY COLOR 3
MANOR HOUSE
SW 7505 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 4 
BLACK MAGIC
SW 6991 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
ACCENT COLOR 1 
BORSCHET
SW 7578 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
3
4
5
ROOF MATERIAL
GAF ASPHALT 
SHINGLES
CHARCOAL - TIMERLINE SERIES
A
C3
D2
C3
3
3
3
4
F5
H
G
A
A
B1
4
B1
D2
E
4
4
E
BODY MATERIAL 1
HARDIE PANEL
SIDING
SIERRA 8 - JAMES HARDIE
B
NOTES:
1. NO MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT OTHER THAN SOLAR PANELS ARE PROPOSED ON ROOFS.
2. NO GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR EQUIPMENT IS PROPOSED.
3. REFLECTIVE GLASS WILL NOT BE USED IN WINDOWS.
4. MANUFACTURERS ARE NOTED FOR DESIGN INTENT. FINAL SELECTIONS WILL BE CONFIRMED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT.
WINDOW
VINYL - WHITE V250 STYLE LINE
HORIZONTAL SLIDER
MILGARD

--- page 378 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.6.5
SHEET
COLOR & MATERIALS-TH1_CS1
MATERIALS
COLORS
BODY MATERIAL 3
STUCCO
SAND FINISH
BODY MATERIAL 4
BRICK VENEER
SHADOWDANCE, CANNERY BRICK
CREATIVE MINES
BODY COLOR 1
SERIOUS GRAY
SW 6256 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY MATERIAL 1
BOARD & BATTEN
JAMES HARDIE
ROOF MATERIAL
GAF ASPHALT 
SHINGLES
CHARCOAL - TIMERLINE SERIES
1
A
D
E
B
BODY COLOR 2
PURE WHITE
SW 7005 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 3 
CHINCHILLA
SW 6011 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 4
BLACK MAGIC
SW 6991 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
ACCENT COLOR 1 
INDIGO
SW 6531 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
2
3
4
5
TH 1_COLOR SCHEME 1
DOOR
SMOOTH FINISH
THERMA-TRU
RAILING
FACE MOUNTED
METAL RAILING
LAMP
CYLINDER 2 LIGHT 12” 
TALL OUTDOOR SCONE
KICHLER
F
G
H
I
BODY MATERIAL 2
HARDIE PLANK
SIDING
SMOOTH - JAMES HARDIE
C
D2
I
G5
E
H
4
4
F
C1
A
A
B3
B3
D4
3
F
C1
1
D2
4
NOTES:
1. NO MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT OTHER THAN SOLAR PANELS ARE PROPOSED ON ROOFS.
2. NO GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR EQUIPMENT IS PROPOSED.
3. REFLECTIVE GLASS WILL NOT BE USED IN WINDOWS.
4. MANUFACTURERS ARE NOTED FOR DESIGN INTENT. FINAL SELECTIONS WILL BE CONFIRMED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT.
5.IN COMPLIANCE WITH AB 130, CORNER BALCONIES WILL NOT OCCUR ON UNITS FACING THE FREEWAY. SEE SHEET A.5.14. FOR ALTERNATE PLAN.
WINDOW
VINYL - WHITE V250 STYLE LINE
HORIZONTAL SLIDER
MILGARD

--- page 379 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.6.6
SHEET
COLOR & MATERIALS-TH1_CS2
MATERIALS
COLORS
BODY MATERIAL 3
STUCCO
SAND FINISH
BODY MATERIAL 4
BRICK VENEER
RAINCLOUD, WAREHOUSE BRICK
CREATIVE MINES
BODY COLOR 1
SERIOUS GRAY
SW 6256 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY MATERIAL 1
BOARD & BATTEN
JAMES HARDIE
ROOF MATERIAL
GAF ASPHALT 
SHINGLES
CHARCOAL - TIMERLINE SERIES
1
A
D
E
B
BODY COLOR 2
PURE WHITE
SW 7005 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 3 
CAST IRON
SW 6202 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 4
BLACK MAGIC
SW 6991 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
ACCENT COLOR 1 
PEPPERCORN
SW 7674 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
2
3
4
5
TH 1_COLOR SCHEME 2
DOOR
SMOOTH FINISH
THERMA-TRU
RAILING
FACE MOUNTED
METAL RAILING
LAMP
CYLINDER 2 LIGHT 12” 
TALL OUTDOOR SCONE
KICHLER
F
G
H
I
BODY MATERIAL 2
HARDIE PLANK
SIDING
SMOOTH - JAMES HARDIE
C
D2
I
G5
E
H
4
4
F
C1
A
4
F
A
B3
B3
D4
3
C1
1
D2
4
NOTES:
1. NO MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT OTHER THAN SOLAR PANELS ARE PROPOSED ON ROOFS.
2. NO GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR EQUIPMENT IS PROPOSED.
3. REFLECTIVE GLASS WILL NOT BE USED IN WINDOWS.
4. MANUFACTURERS ARE NOTED FOR DESIGN INTENT. FINAL SELECTIONS WILL BE CONFIRMED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT.
5. IN COMPLIANCE WITH AB 130, CORNER BALCONIES WILL NOT OCCUR ON UNITS FACING THE FREEWAY. SEE SHEET A.5.14. FOR ALTERNATE PLAN.
WINDOW
VINYL - WHITE V250 STYLE LINE
HORIZONTAL SLIDER
MILGARD

--- page 380 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.6.7
SHEET
COLOR & MATERIALS-TH2_CS1
MATERIALS
COLORS
BODY MATERIAL 3
STUCCO
SAND FINISH
BODY MATERIAL 4
BRICK VENEER
RAINCLOUD, WAREHOUSE BRICK
CREATIVE MINES
BODY COLOR 1
MINERAL GRAY
SW 2740 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY MATERIAL 2
HARDIE PANEL
SIDING
SIERRA 8 - JAMES HARDIE
BODY MATERIAL 1
BOARD & BATTEN
JAMES HARDIE
ROOF MATERIAL
GAF ASPHALT 
SHINGLES
CHARCOAL - TIMERLINE SERIES
1
A
D
E
C
B
BODY COLOR 2
PURE WHITE
SW 7005 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 3 
PEPPERCORN
SW 7674 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
ACCENT COLOR 1 
ROYCROFT ADOBE
SW 0040 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
2
3
4
D2
D3
I
G4
E
H
F
1
TH 2_COLOR SCHEME 1
DOOR
SMOOTH FINISH
THERMA-TRU
RAILING
FACE MOUNTED
METAL RAILING
LAMP
CYLINDER 2 LIGHT 12” 
TALL OUTDOOR SCONE
KICHLER
F
G
H
I
A
A
1
B2
2
C1
C1
F
1
D3
3
1
D2
NOTES:
1. NO MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT OTHER THAN SOLAR PANELS ARE PROPOSED ON ROOFS.
2. NO GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR EQUIPMENT IS PROPOSED.
3. REFLECTIVE GLASS WILL NOT BE USED IN WINDOWS.
4. MANUFACTURERS ARE NOTED FOR DESIGN INTENT. FINAL SELECTIONS WILL BE CONFIRMED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT.
5. IN COMPLIANCE WITH AB 130, CORNER BALCONIES WILL NOT OCCUR ON UNITS FACING THE FREEWAY. SEE SHEET A.5.14. FOR ALTERNATE PLAN.
WINDOW
VINYL - WHITE V250 STYLE LINE
HORIZONTAL SLIDER
MILGARD

--- page 381 ---
DAHLIN GROUP ARCHITECTURE | PLANNING
BAYSHORE COMMONS
WWW.DAHLINGROUP.COM
IN SAN MATEO, CA
SHEET
PROJECT NO. 1781.002 | JANUARY 16, 2026
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP 
A.6.8
SHEET
COLOR & MATERIALS-TH2_CS2
MATERIALS
COLORS
BODY MATERIAL 3
STUCCO
SAND FINISH
BODY MATERIAL 4
BRICK VENEER
PEBBLECREEK, CANARY BRICK
CREATIVE MINES
BODY COLOR 1
SPALDING GRAY
SW 6074 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY MATERIAL 2
HARDIE PANEL
SIDING
SIERRA 8 - JAMES HARDIE
BODY MATERIAL 1
BOARD & BATTEN
JAMES HARDIE
ROOF MATERIAL
GAF ASPHALT 
SHINGLES
CHARCOAL - TIMERLINE SERIES
1
A
D
E
C
B
BODY COLOR 2
PURE WHITE
SW 7005 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 3 
PEPPERCORN
SW 7674 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
BODY COLOR 4 
SLATE TILE
SW 7624 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
ACCENT COLOR 1 
CHATEAU BROWN
SW 7510 BY SHERWIN WILLIAMS
2
3
4
5
TH 2_COLOR SCHEME 2
DOOR
SMOOTH FINISH
THERMA-TRU
RAILING
FACE MOUNTED
METAL RAILING
LAMP
CYLINDER 2 LIGHT 12” 
TALL OUTDOOR SCONE
KICHLER
F
G
H
I
D3
D2
I
G5
E
H
F
4
A
A
4
D3
B1
1
C4
C4
F
4
D2
3
4
D3
NOTES:
1. NO MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT OTHER THAN SOLAR PANELS ARE PROPOSED ON ROOFS.
2. NO GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR EQUIPMENT IS PROPOSED.
3. REFLECTIVE GLASS WILL NOT BE USED IN WINDOWS.
4. MANUFACTURERS ARE NOTED FOR DESIGN INTENT. FINAL SELECTIONS WILL BE CONFIRMED AT TIME OF BUILDING PERMIT.
5. IN COMPLIANCE WITH AB 130, CORNER BALCONIES WILL NOT OCCUR ON UNITS FACING THE FREEWAY. SEE SHEET A.5.14. FOR ALTERNATE PLAN.
WINDOW
VINYL - WHITE V250 STYLE LINE
HORIZONTAL SLIDER
MILGARD

--- page 382 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
ARCHITECT
DAHLIN GROUP
5865 OWENS DRIVE
PLEASANTON, CA 94588
(925) 251-7286
ERIC MUZZY
ERIC.MUZZY@DAHLINGROUP.COM
CIVIL ENGINEER
SAGE CONSULTING ENGINEERS, INC.
235 PINE ST, SUITE 1475
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250 x 2
KIRSTEN HANSON
KHANSON@SAGE-CE.COM
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
JETT LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE
2 THEATRE SQUARE, SUITE 218
ORINDA, CA 94563
(925) 254-5422
BRUCE JETT
BRUCEJ@JETT.LAND
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA
PLAN SCALE
SECTION CUT
REFERENCE
CIRCLE CALL-OUT
GENERAL
KEYNOTE GENERAL
DETAIL REFERENCE
CALLOUT
GRID LINE
NORTH ARROW
REVISION CLOUD
ELEVATION VIEW
REFERENCE
MATCH LINE
SHEET
SHEET
A
1
C101
A
A-101
A
1
N
FEET
0
60
120
OWNER / DEVELOPER
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE OWNER LP
1720 SOUTH AMPHLETT BLVD., SUITE 118
SAN MATEO, CA 94402
(415) 531-7779
ANDY BECK
ABECK@LINKLOGISTICS.COM
GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER
LANGAN
135 MAIN ST., SUITE 1500
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 94105
(415) 955-5200
WILSON W. WONG
WWONG@LANGAN.COM
C101
1
SHEET
SHEET
C101
A
N
Scale: 1" = 500'
KEY MAP
1
Scale: 1" = 150'
SITE MAP
2
∅
PROJ NO: J0164
C0.1
TITLE SHEET
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
SHEET INDEX
SHEET TITLE
C0.1
TITLE SHEET
C0.2
ALTA SURVEY
C0.3
ALTA SURVEY
C0.4
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C0.5
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C0.6
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C0.7
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C0.8
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY
C1.0
EXISTING SITE & UTILITY PLAN
C2.0
CIVIL SITE PLAN - OVERALL
C2.1
CIVIL SITE PLAN - N
C2.2
CIVIL SITE PLAN - E
C2.3
CIVIL SITE PLAN - S
C2.4
CIVIL SITE PLAN - W
C2.5
PARCELIZATION PLAN
C2.6
FIRE ACCESS PLAN
C3.0
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - OVERALL
C3.1
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - N
C3.2
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - E
C3.3
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - W
C3.4
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - S
C4.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - OVERALL
C4.1
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - N
C4.2
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - E
C4.3
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - S
C4.4
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - W
C5.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER CONTROL PLAN
C5.1
STORMWATER CONTROL CALCULATIONS
C5.2
STORMWATER O&M FORMS
C6.1
S. AMPHLETT BLVD - PLAN & SECTION
C6.2
S. AMPHLETT BLVD - PLAN & SECTION
C6.3
S. AMPHLETT BLVD - PLAN & SECTION
C7.1
S. GRANT ST - PLAN & SECTION
C7.2
S. GRANT ST - PLAN & SECTION
C7.3
S. GRANT ST - PLAN & SECTION
C8.0
LESLIE CREEK SECTIONS
OCTOBER 28, 2025
BASIS OF BEARINGS AND COORDINATES:
BEARINGS AND COORDINATES SHOWN HEREON ARE IN TERMS OF NAD83
(2011), STATE PLANE COORDINATE ZONE 3. BASED LOCALLY FROM GPS TIES
TO POINTS 15, 107 AND 129 AS SHOWN ON RECORD OF SURVEY #2776, FILED
IN BOOK 41 OF LLS MAPS, PAGES 91-95, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS.
BASIS OF ELEVATIONS:
ELEVATIONS SHOWN HEREON ARE IN TERMS OF NAVD88, BASED
LOCALLY FROM GPS TIES TO POINTS 15, 107 AND 129 AS SHOWN ON
RECORD OF SURVEY #2776, FILED IN BOOK 41 OF LLS MAPS, PAGES 91-95,
SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS.
·
·
·
·
·
·
ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTATION
·
PRELIMINARY GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION AND UPDATES, BAYSHORE
SAN MATEO, LANGAN, PROJECT NO. 750701001, DATED 4/11/2025.
OCTOBER 28, 2025
JOINT TRENCH DESIGN
GIACALONE DESIGN SERVICES, INC.
5820 STONERIDGE MALL ROAD, SUITE 345
PLEASANTON, CA 94588
(408) 639-6422
TOMAS ARCAYA
TOMASA@DRYUTILITYDESIGN.COM

--- page 383 ---
ITEMS CORRESPONDING TO SCHEDULE B-II
08/22/2024
DATE
EMAILED FOR NV5 REVIEW
DATE
DESCRIPTION
DESCRIPTION
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
THE LAND REFERRED TO HEREIN BELOW IS SITUATED IN THE CITY OF SAN MATEO, IN THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF
CALIFORNIA, AND IS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
PARCEL ONE:
PARCEL 1, AS DESIGNATED ON THAT CERTAIN PARCEL MAP ENTITLED, "PARCEL MAP NO. 84, BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF
PARCEL D, PARCEL MAP NO. 33 DIVISION OF PARCEL D, PARCEL MAP NO. 33, DIVISION OF THE CONCAR RANCH AND
ENTERPRISES, INC. (VOL. 9 P.M. 22), SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS", WHICH PARCEL MAP WAS FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE
RECORDER OF THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ON DECEMBER 12, 1972, IN BOOK 18 OF PARCEL MAPS, AT
PAGE 34.
APN: 035-241-240
PARCEL TWO:
PARCEL B, AS DESIGNATED ON THAT CERTAIN PARCEL MAP ENTITLED, "PARCEL MAP NO. 101, BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF
PARCEL C, PARCEL MAP NO. 33 (VOL. 9 P.M., PAGE 22) AND PARCEL 2, PARCEL MAP NO. 84 (VOL. 18 P.M., PAGE 34), SAN MATEO
COUNTY RECORDS", WHICH PARCEL MAP WAS FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ON NOVEMBER 19, 1973, IN BOOK 23 OF PARCEL MAPS, AT PAGE 1.
APN: 035-241-250
PARCEL THREE:
PARCEL 1, AS SHOWN ON THAT CERTAIN PARCEL MAP ENTITLED, "PARCEL MAP NO. 121, BEING A RESUBDIVISION OF PARCEL A
OF PARCEL MAP NO. 101 (VOL. 23 P.M., PAGE 1), SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS", WHICH PARCEL MAP WAS FILED IN THE
OFFICE OF THE RECORDER OF THE COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, IN BOOK 25 OF PARCEL MAPS, AT PAGE 41.
APN: 035-241-260
THE LANDS SURVEYED, SHOWN AND DESCRIBED HEREON ARE THE SAME LANDS AS DESCRIBED IN THE TITLE COMMITMENT
PROVIDED BY FIDELITY NATIONAL TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, COMMITMENT NO. 30117674-991-991-KD9, DATED MAY 6, 2024.
To: Fidelity National Title Insurance Company and Bock & Clark Corporation, an NV5 Company:
This is to certify that this map or plat and the survey on which it is based were made in accordance with the 2021
Minimum Standard Detail Requirements for ALTA/NSPS Land Title Surveys, jointly established and adopted by ALTA
and NSPS, and includes Items 2, 3, 4, 6a, 6b, 7a, 7b1, 7c, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 16, 17, and 19 of Table A thereof. The field
work was completed on AUGUST 19, 2024.
for
PSB Bayshore
NV5 Project No. 202402828-001
br44151 & br44152
Bayshore Corporate Center & Bayshore - Executive Suites
1650, 1660, 1670, 1700, 1710, 1720 & 1730 S. Amphlett Blvd, San Mateo, CA 94402
BASED UPON TITLE COMMITMENT NO. 30117674-991-991-KD9
OF FIDELITY NATIONAL TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY
BEARING AN EFFECTIVE DATE OF MAY 6, 2024
Surveyor's Certification
CALIFORNIA BRANCH PROJECT NO. 5202404227
THE SURVEYOR WAS NOT PROVIDED WITH ZONING INFORMATION BY THE CLIENT PURSUANT TO
TABLE A ITEM 6a & 6b.
MN1
MN2
MN3
MN4
MN5
MN6
MN7
MN8
MN9
MN10
MN11
MN12
MN13
FLOOD NOTE
PROJECT REVISION RECORD
VICINITY MAP - NOT TO SCALE
SIGNIFICANT OBSERVATIONS
ZONING INFORMATION
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES
PRELIMINARY
MN14
MN15
MN17
BUILDINGS RESIDE WITHIN THE EASEMENTS DESCRIBED IN SCHEDULE BII ITEM NO. 9 & 11 UP TO
1.3'±.
MN16
RECORD DESCRIPTION
 SHEET 1 OF 2
LEGAL
THIS SURVEY WAS PREPARED FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION ONLY AND
NO FURTHER PARTIES OTHER THAN THOSE CERTIFIED ABOVE SHALL RELY ON IT FOR ANY OTHER
PURPOSE OR TRANSACTION
SURVEY    ZONING    ENVIRONMENTAL    ASSESSMENT
ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
4580 Stephen Circle N.W., Suite 300, Canton, Ohio 44718
www.BockandClark.com       maywehelpyou@bockandclark.com       www.NV5.com
Transaction Services         1-800-SURVEYS (787-8397)
Bock & Clark Corporation
an NV5 Company
BY GRAPHIC PLOTTING ONLY, THIS PROPERTY IS IN ZONE X (SHADED) OF THE FLOOD INSURANCE RATE
MAP, CURRENT FLOOD ZONE MAP NUMBER 06081C0166F, WHICH BEARS AN EFFECTIVE DATE OF JULY
16, 2015 AND IS NOT IN A SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA AS SHOWN ON THE FEMA WEBSITE
(HTTP://MSC.FEMA.GOV), BY FIRMETTE CREATED ON JULY 31, 2024. NO FIELD SURVEYING WAS
PERFORMED TO DETERMINE THIS ZONE.
JAYNE E. LEAVITT
REGISTRATION NO. PLS 8898
IN THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
DATE OF PLAT OR MAP: AUGUST 22, 2024
DATE OF LAST REVISION: OCTOBER 1, 2024
NETWORK PROJECT NO. 202402828-001 ICW
THIS SURVEY IS CERTIFIED TO DATE OF FIELD SURVEY, NOT DATE OF SIGNATURE.
NOT VALID UNLESS SIGNED, DATED AND STAMPED WITH SURVEYOR'S SEAL
SITE
6. 
Easement for sanitary trunk sewer over two strips of land, each 10 feet wide, with right of ingress and
egress, as granted by Concar Ranch and Enterprises, Inc., a corporation, to the City of San Mateo, a
municipal corporation, in Parcels 2 and 3 of the Deed of Dedication dated April 1, 1954 and recorded
April 29, 1954, Series No. 52942L, Book 2574, Page 249, of Official Records, and as shown on Parcel
Map mentioned herein.
(Affects the Southwesterly portion of Parcel One)
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON.
7. 
Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company and the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph
Company
Purpose: 
Single line of poles, wires, etc., with right of ingress and egress
Recording Date: 
December 1, 1955
Recording No: 
8695N, Book 2926, Page 8, of Official Records
Affects: 
The Northwesterly 5 feet of Parcel One
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON.
8. 
Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation
Purpose: 
Public utilities and storm drain
Recording Date: 
January 21, 1970
Recording No: 
94254AC, Book 5740, Page 219, of Official Records
Affects: 
A strip of land, 20 feet in width, crossing Parcels One and Two
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON; HOWEVER, THE DESCRIPTION IS PARTIALLY
ILLEGIBLE, THEREFORE THE INTENDED LOCATION MAY BE DIFFERENT FROM WHAT IS SHOWN
HEREON.
9. 
Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
California Water Service Company, a corporation
Purpose: 
Pipe line or pipe lines and ingress and egress, etc.
Recording Date: 
February 28, 1972
Recording No: 
92180AE, Book 6100, Page 208, of Official Records
Affects: 
A portion of Parcel One, as approximately shown on the Survey
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON.
10. Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation
Purpose: 
Sidewalk, street and public utilities
Recording Date: 
July 3, 1972
Recording No: 
33810AF, Book 6182, Page 36, of Official Records
Affects: 
A portion of Parcels One and Two
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON.
11. Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
California Water Service Company, a corporation
Purpose: 
Pipe line or water lines, and ingress, egress, etc.
Recording Date: 
November 2, 1972
Recording No: 
73741AF, Book 6263, Page 713, of Official Records
Affects: 
A portion of Parcel One
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON.
12. Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
City of San Mateo, a municipal corporation
Purpose: 
Sidewalk and public utilities, over, across and under a strip of land, 5.00 feet
in width
Recording Date: 
December 4, 1972
Recording No: 
83466AF, Book 6283, Page 168, of Official Records
Affects: 
The Northeasterly 5 feet of Parcels Two and Three
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON.
13. Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
California Water Service Company, a corporation
Purpose: 
Ingress and egress, pipe lines, etc.
Recording Date: 
January 16, 1974
Recording No: 
7776AH, Book 6536, Page 207, of Official Records
Affects: 
Parcels One, Two and Three
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON. THIS ITEM IS ON PARCEL ONE.
14. Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
California Water Service Company
Purpose: 
A water main
Recording Date: 
October 24, 1975
Recording No: 
Book 6965, Page 394, of Official Records
Affects: 
The Northeasterly 10 feet of Parcel Three
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON.
15. Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company
Purpose: 
Underground communication facilities
Recording Date: 
November 29, 1983
Recording No: 
83132009, of Official Records
Affects: 
The Southwesterly 6 feet of the Southeasterly 30 feet of Parcels One and
Two
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON. THIS ITEM IS ON PARCEL TWO
16. Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, a California Corporation
Purpose: 
Underground pipeline
Recording Date: 
March 31, 1983
Recording No: 
83-29737, of Official Records
Affects: 
A portion of Parcel Three
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON.
6
SURVEY PERFORMED BY:
BOCK & CLARK CORPORATION, AN NV5 COMPANY
2525 NATOMAS PARK DRIVE STE 350
SACRAMENTO, CA  95833
PHONE: 800-787-8397, EMAIL: Jayne.Leavitt@nv5.com
SOME FEATURES SHOWN ON THIS PLAT MAY BE SHOWN OUT OF SCALE FOR CLARITY. ALL
DIMENSIONS SHOWN ARE IN FEET AND DECIMALS THEREOF. UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED, ALL
MEASURED BEARINGS AND DISTANCES MATCH RECORD.
BEARINGS SHOWN HEREON ARE BASED ON THE CENTERLINE OF S. GRANT STREET, SAN
MATEO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, SHOWN ON 18 PM 34, HAVING A BEARING OF N41°18'53"W.
PURSUANT TO TABLE A ITEM 2 ADDRESSES OF 1650, 1660, 1670, 1700, 1710, 1720, 1726 & 1730
SOUTH AMPHLETT BOULEVARD WERE POSTED ON THE SURVEYED PROPERTY.
PURSUANT TO TABLE A ITEM 4 THE SURVEYED PROPERTY CONTAINS AN AREA OF 14.475
ACRES (630,532 SQUARE FEET), MORE OR LESS.
PURSUANT TO TABLE A ITEM 7 BUILDING SQUARE FOOTAGE WAS CALCULATED FROM THE
OBSERVED APPARENT FOOTPRINT OF EACH BUILDING AT GROUND LEVEL.
PURSUANT TO TABLE A ITEM 8 ONLY OBSERVABLE SURFACE AND ABOVE GROUND FEATURES
WERE LOCATED.  AT THE TIME OF SURVEY, THERE WAS NO OBSERVABLE EVIDENCE OF SITE
USE AS A BURIAL GROUND OR CEMETERY, NOR SUBSTANTIAL AREAS OF REFUSE.
PURSUANT TO TABLE A ITEM 9 THERE ARE 1,121 STRIPED REGULAR PARKING SPACES AND 28
STRIPED DISABLED PARKING SPACES FOR A TOTAL OF 1,149 STRIPED PARKING SPACES ON
THE SURVEYED PROPERTY. THERE ARE 2 MOTORCYCLE SPACES ON THE SURVEYED
PROPERTY.
PURSUANT TO TABLE A ITEM 10 NO DIVISION OR PARTY WALLS WERE DESIGNATED BY THE
CLIENT OR LOCATED BY SURVEYOR WITH RESPECT TO ADJOINING PROPERTIES.
SURVEYOR IS NOT LIABLE FOR UTILITIES OBSTRUCTED OR COVERED FROM VIEW. THE
LOCATION OF UTILITIES SHOWN HEREON IS FROM OBSERVED SURFACE AND ABOVE GROUND
APPURTENANCES IN ORDER TO DEPICT UNDERGROUND UTILITIES, IF POSSIBLE. UTILITY
PLANS OR GROUND MARKINGS WERE NOT PROVIDED IN ACCORDANCE WITH TABLE A 11a.
PURSUANT TO TABLE A ITEM 16 AT THE TIME OF SURVEY, THERE WAS NO OBSERVABLE
EVIDENCE OF EARTH MOVING WORK, BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, BUILDING ADDITIONS.
PURSUANT TO TABLE A ITEM 17 AT THE TIME OF SURVEY, THE SURVEYOR WAS UNAWARE OF
ANY PROPOSED CHANGES IN STREET RIGHT OF WAY LINES OR OBSERVABLE EVIDENCE OF
STREET OR SIDEWALK REPAIRS.
THE SURVEYED PROPERTY HAS DIRECT ACCESS TO SOUTH AMPHLETT BOULEVARD & SOUTH
GRANT STREET, 60 FOOT WIDE DEDICATED PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAYS, AS SHOWN HEREON.
OWNERSHIP OF FENCES, IF ANY, WAS NOT DETERMINED UNDER THE SCOPE OF THIS SURVEY.
THE SURVEYED PROPERTY CREATES A MATHEMATICALLY CLOSED FIGURE, WITH NO GAPS,
GORES, OVERLAPS OR HIATUS INHERENT TO THE SURVEYED PROPERTY BASED ON THE
FIELD SURVEY PERFORMED AND THE TITLE COMMITMENTS PROVIDED. ALL PARCELS OF THE
SURVEYED PROPERTY AS DESCRIBED HEREON ARE CONTIGUOUS
THIS SURVEY IS NOT INTENDED FOR CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCTION DESIGN PURPOSES.
ADJOINING OWNERSHIP INFORMATION SHOWN HEREON WAS OBTAINED FROM AVAILABLE
PUBLIC RECORDS.
REVISED PER COMMENT REVIEW
10/01/2024
VICINITY MAP IMAGERY PROVIDED BY www.google.com/maps on 07/31/2024
ITEMS CORRESPONDING TO SCHEDULE B-II
17. Easement(s) for the purpose(s) shown below and rights incidental thereto, as granted in a document:
Granted to: 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, a California corporation
Purpose: 
Public utilities
Recording Date: 
November 19, 1993
Recording No: 
93201806, of Official Records
Affects: 
Northerly portion of said land
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM IS PLOTTED AND SHOWN HEREON; HOWEVER, THE DEPICTION IS ILLEGIBLE,
THEREFORE THE INTENDED LOCATION MAY BE DIFFERENT FROM WHAT IS SHOWN HEREON.
18.
An unrecorded lease with certain terms, covenants, conditions and provisions set forth therein as
disclosed by the document
Entitled: 
Memorandum of Lease
Lessor: 
Cornerstone Properties 1 LLC, a California Limited Liability Corporation
Lessee: 
Pacific Bell Mobile Services, a California corporation
Recording Date: 
September 13, 1996
Recording No: 
96-114427, of Official Records
The present ownership of the leasehold created by said lease and other matters affecting the interest of
the lessee are not shown herein.
Affects: 
Parcel One
THIS ITEM REFERS TO THE SURVEYED PROPERTY BUT CONTAINS NO PLOTTABLE SURVEY ITEMS.
19. Matters contained in that certain document
Entitled: 
Agreement: Automatic Fire Suppression Regulation
Dated: 
September 20, 2002
Executed by: 
City of San Mateo
Recording Date: 
December 26, 2002
Recording No: 
2002-275653, of Official Records
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
THIS ITEM REFERS TO THE SURVEYED PROPERTY BUT CONTAINS NO PLOTTABLE SURVEY ITEMS.
20. Matters contained in that certain document
Entitled: 
Notice of Project Restrictions
Dated: 
April 8, 2008
Executed by: 
Cornerstone Properties
Recording Date: 
May 20, 2008
Recording No: 
2008-058159, of Official Records
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
Affects: 
Parcel One
THIS ITEM REFERS TO THE SURVEYED PROPERTY BUT CONTAINS NO PLOTTABLE SURVEY ITEMS.
21. Matters contained in that certain document
Entitled: 
Notice of Project Restrictions
Dated: 
April 8, 2008
Executed by: 
Cornerstone Properties
Recording Date: 
May 20, 2008
Recording No: 
2008-058160, of Official Records
Reference is hereby made to said document for full particulars.
Affects: 
Parcel One
THIS ITEM REFERS TO THE SURVEYED PROPERTY BUT CONTAINS NO PLOTTABLE SURVEY ITEMS.
17
7
8
9
10
11
A
12
13
14
15
16
C0.2

--- page 384 ---
T
T
E
TRASH
CONTAINER
G
6 SPACES
7 SPACES
9 SPACES
5 SPACES
9 SPACES
5 SPACES
7 SPACES
8 SPACES
9 SPACES
8 SPACES
9 SPACES
4 SPACES
9 SPACES
7 SPACES
7 SPACES
6 SPACES
6 SPACES
6 SPACES
5 SPACES
8 SPACES
13 SPACES
16 SPACES
16 SPACES
8 SPACES
8 SPACES
4 SPACES
8 SPACES
24 SPACES
11 SPACES
5 SPACES
6 SPACES
11 SPACES
7 SPACES
6 SPACES
6 SPACES
1 SPACE
8 SPACES
7 SPACES
8 SPACES
36' ±, 3-STORY
16,768 ± SQ.FT.
1660 AMPHLETT BOULEVARD
36' ±, 3-STORY
14,660 ± SQ.FT.
1650 AMPHLETT BOULEVARD
36' ±, 3-STORY
15,439 ± SQ.FT.
1670 AMPHLETT BOULEVARD
36' ±, 3-STORY
16,222 ± SQ.FT.
1710 AMPHLETT BOULEVARD
36' ±, 3-STORY
16,222 ± SQ.FT.
1700 AMPHLETT BOULEVARD
36' ±, 3-STORY
17,801 ± SQ.FT.
1720 AMPHLETT BOULEVARD
36' ±, 3-STORY
17,815 ± SQ.FT.
1730 AMPHLETT BOULEVARD
20' ±, 2-STORY
4,199 ± SQ.FT.
1726 AMPHLETT
BOULEVARD
5 SPACES
25 SPACES
5 SPACES
6 SPACES
6 SPACES
STORAGE
E
14 SPACES
14 SPACES
2
SPACES
6 SPACES
6 SPACES
19 SPACES
9 SPACES
8 SPACES
7 SPACES
MC
MC
8 SPACES
8 SPACES
7 SPACES
6 SPACES
6 SPACES
5 SPACES
14 SPACES
2
SPACES
5 SPACES
19 SPACES
7 SPACES
16 SPACES
11 SPACES
8 SPACES
5 SPACES
12 SPACES
9 SPACES
7 SPACES
4 SPACES
7 SPACES
1 SPACE
3 SPACES
1 SPACE
1 SPACE
11 SPACES
2
SPACES
9 SPACES
8 SPACES
12 SPACES
5 SPACES
7 SPACES
7 SPACES
7 SPACES
8 SPACES
7 SPACES
12 SPACES
12 SPACES
11 SPACES
ACCESS
ACCESS
ACCESS
ACCESS
ACCESS
ACCESS
ACCESS
ACCESS
3 SPACES
8 SPACES
13 SPACES
13 SPACES
3 SPACES
3 SPACES
3 SPACES
4 SPACES
10 SPACES
10 SPACES
12 SPACES
12 SPACES
12 SPACES
12 SPACES
12 SPACES
2
SPACES
7 SPACES
8 SPACES
11 SPACES
7 SPACES
4 SPACES
8 SPACES
8 SPACES
8 SPACES
6 SPACES
7 SPACES
4 SPACES
T
T
T
3 SPACES
4 SPACES
4 SPACES
5 SPACES
8 SPACES
8 SPACES
12 SPACES
12 SPACES
13 SPACES
13 SPACES
4 SPACES
4 SPACES
3 SPACES
7 SPACES
15 SPACES
12 SPACES
7 SPACES
11 SPACES
5 SPACES
16 SPACES
67.4'
217.5'
217.5'
67.4'
66.2'
253.3'
253.3'
66.2'
67.2'
67.3'
67.3'
229.4'
229.4'
67.2'
241.4'
241.4'
67.2'
241.4'
241.4'
67.2'
85.7'
49.0'
85.7'
49.0'
265.1'
67.2'
265.1'
67.2'
67.2'
67.2'
264.9'
264.9'
C
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
OH
C
C
U C C
V
C
C U
SHED
6'± CHAINLINK
FENCE
4'± IRON FENCE
4'± IRON FENCE
6'± CHAINLINK
FENCE
S. GRANT STREET
60' WIDE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
AMPHLETT BOULEVARD
60' WIDE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
DRAINAGE CHANNEL
60' WIDE RIGHT OF WAY
2604 O.R. 404
APN: XXX-XXX-XXX
N/F CITY OF
SAN MATEO
PARCEL 2, 25 PM 41
APN: 035-240-220X
N/F HOSPITALITY INVESMENT LLC LESSEE
C/O ORACLE AMERICA INC
FOUND LEAD, TACK & TAG IN CC
IN MONUMENT WELL
PER 42 M 1
FOUND LEAD, TACK & TAG IN CC
IN MONUMENT WELL
PER 42 M 1
FOUND LEAD, TACK & TAG IN CC
IN MONUMENT WELL
PER 42 M 1
FOUND 2" IRON PIPE
WITH PLASTIC CAP RCE 5597
BENT TO THE NORTH
FOUND 1/2" REBAR, NO TAG
FOUND PK & WASHER
CAL TRANS
R=9851.00'
Δ=2°18'42"
L=397.43'
R=7940.56'
Δ=2°24'38"
L=334.08'
R=7940.56'
Δ=0°07'13"
L=16.67'
N36° 53' 49"W
39.13'
N51° 21' 46"E
24.33'
N51° 09' 07"E
N53° 27' 49"E
N54° 16' 11"E
R=7940.56'
Δ=0°30'21"
L=70.10'
N32° 41' 37"W
351.98'
BASIS OF BEARINGS
N41° 18' 53"W
534.63'
N59° 09' 38"E
S59° 09' 38"W
S58° 53' 33"W
S56° 41' 00"W
S74° 41' 00"W
217.13'
351.45'
R=1830.00'
Δ=11°50'05"
L=378.00'
R=1830.00'
Δ=8°22'32"
L=267.51'
71.36'
N41° 18' 53"W
542.73'
521.26'
457.68'
N41° 18' 53"W
BETTY LANE
80' WIDE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
6
10.0'
6
10.0'
7
5.0'
8
20.0'
11
20.0'
10
11.0'
9
0.3'±
A
1.3'±
A
12
5.0'
13
10.0'
14
10.0'
15
6.0'
16
10.0'
17
5.0'
8
20.0'
0.6'± NW, FENCE
1.1'± SE, CURB
0.1'± NW
FENCE
2.1'± NW
FENCE
0.9'± SE, CURB
1.4'± SE
FENCE
1.6'± SE
FENCE
0.1'± SE
FENCE
DIRT
DIRT
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
L/S
AC
AC
AC
AC
78.4'±
84.4'±
96.0'±
76.2'±
93.8'±
146.9'±
94.5'±
94.7'±
96.1'±
108.4'±
81.6'±
85.4'±
283.3'±
63.4'±
62.7'±
73.4'±
73.8'±
77.6'±
81.7'±
90.6'±
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
R / W
60.0'
1.0'
48.2'
60.0'
30.0'
30.0'
40.0'
10.0'
EP
EP
EP
EP
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
573.00'
SCALE : 1" =   
0'
25'
50'
100'
50'
SHEET 2 OF 2
ALTA/NSPS LAND TITLE SURVEY
PREPARED FOR
PSB Bayshore
DATE OF FIELD SURVEY: AUGUST 19, 2024
NETWORK PROJECT NUMBER. 202402828-001 ICW
1-(800)-SURVEYS (787-8397)
TRANSACTION SERVICES
www.bockandclark.com  maywehelpyou@bockandclark.com  www.NV5.com
SURVEY    ZONING    ENVIRONMENTAL    ASSESSMENT
LEGEND OF SYMBOLS & ABBREVIATIONS
T
POWER POLE
LIGHT POLE
ELECTRIC VAULT
TRANSFORMER
COMMUNICATIONS PEDESTAL
COMMUNICATIONS VAULT
GENERATOR
UTILITY PEDESTAL
STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
STORM DRAIN INLET
GAS VALVE
ACCESSIBLE PARKING
CONCRETE
NO PARKING
WATER VALVE
FIRE HYDRANT
BACKFLOW PREVENTER
WATER METER
CLEAN OUT
BOLLARD
NOW OR FORMERLY
BUILDING SETBACK LINE
EDGE OF PAVEMENT
ASPHALT
OVERHANG
LANDSCAPE AREA
RIGHT OF WAY
MOTORCYCLE
MONUMENT FOUND
AS NOTED
BUILDING HEIGHT
LOCATION
E
C
G
U
OH
OVERHEAD LINES
N/F
BSL
EP
AC
OH
L/S
R/W
MC
C0.3

--- page 385 ---
——— TV

LEGEND:
AD AREA DRAIN
BFP BACK FLOW PREVENTER
BLDG BUILDING
BOLL ® BOLLARD
BSW BACK OF SIDEWALK
CATV CABLE TV
CB STORM CATCH BASIN
Cl CAST IRON PIPE
CL CENTER LINE
CLF CHAIN LINK FENCE
CMP CORRUGATED METAL PIPE
COM—BX COMMUNICATION BOX
COM—CON COMMUNICATION CONDUIT
COM—MH © COMMUNICATION MANHOLE
COM—VLT COMMUNICATION VAULT
COR CORNER
C—PAD CONCRETE PAD
CR CROW
D STORM DROP. INLET
D—PIPE DRAIN PIPE
EBB ELECTRICAL BOX
E—CAB ELECTRICAL CABINET
E—CON ELECTRICAL CONDUIT
ELTR e—* ELECTROLIER
EP EDGE OF PAVEMENT
EUC EUCALYPTUS
EVLT ELECTRICAL VAULT
FDC % FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION
FHS FIRE HYDRANT
FL FLOWLINE
FNC FENCE
G GROUND SPOT
GB GRADEBREAK
G GAS METER
GRD GROUND
GUY — GUY WIRE
GV & GAS VALVE
B oF OSE BIB
WALL EADWALL
V VERT
RBX RRIGATION BOX
JP & JOINT POLE
LIP LIP OF GUTTER
PVC POLYVINYL CHLORIDE PIPE
RCP REINFORCED CONCRETE PIPE
R—DRAIN ROOF DRAIN
SDD STORM DRAIN DROP. INLET
SD © STORM DRAIN MANHOLE
SLB STREET LIGHT BOX
SS SANITARY SEWER
SSCO e SANITARY SEWER CLEANOUT
SS © SANITARY SEWER MANHOLE
SW SIDEWALK
SYC SYCAMORE TREE
TBC TOP BACK OF CURB
TC TOP OF CURB
TD TRUNCATED DOM MAT
T—D—PIPE TOP OF DRAIN: PIPE
TOW TOP OF WALL
TPM TRAFFIC PAVEMENT MARKER
TRFMR TRANSFORMER
UG UNDERGROUND
UTIL UTILITY
VCP VITRIFIED CLAY PIPE
WD WOOD
WM WATER METER
W—PIPE WATER PIPE
WV WATER VALVE
oe FENCE LINE
TITITIITTII/ 777 BUILDING HATCH
(OC) FOUND MONUMENT
E ELECTRICAL LINE
—— Fw — FIRE WATER LINE
GAS LINE
Iw — IRRIGATION WATER LINE
— ss — SANITARY SEWER LINE
—— sD — STORM DRAIN LINE
SL STREET LIGHT LINE
COMM ——— COMMUNICATION LINE
TV. LINE
—- UN- UNKNOWN LINE
— Ww — WATER LINE

SURVEYOR NOTES:

1. ALL DISTANCES AND DIMENSIONS ARE SHOWN IN FEET AND DECIMALS

THEREOF OR

UNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE

2. DATE OF FIELD SURVEY: OCTOBER 2024

3. 1 FOOT CONTOUR INTERVAL

4. BOUNDARY S

HOWN HEREON IS FROM AN ALTA SURVEY PERFORMED

BY NVS DATED OCTOBER 1, 2024

BASIS OF BEARINGS AND COORDINATES:

BEARINGS AND COORDINATES SHOWN HEREON ARE IN TERMS

OF NAD83 (2011)

, STATE PLANE COORDINATE ZONE 3. BASED

LOCALLY FROM GPS TIES TO POINTS 15, 107 AND 129 AS
SHOWN ON RECORD OF SURVEY #2776, FILED IN BOOK 41 OF

LLS MAPS, PAGES

91-95, SAN MATEO COUNTY RECORDS.

BASIS OF ELEVATIONS:

ELEVATIONS SHOWN HEREON ARE IN TERMS OF NAVD88,

BASED LOCALLY F
129 AS SHOWN O
BOOK 41 OF LLS
RECORDS.

ROM GPS TIES TO POINTS 15, 107 AND

N RECORD OF SURVEY #2776, FILED IN
MAPS, PAGES 91-95, SAN MATEO COUNTY

HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL CONTROL POINT TABLE

POINT |= NORTHI
BM15 =. 2027516.
BM107 =. 2023368.

BM129 = 2025422.

NG EASTING ELEVATION DESCRIPTION
725 6030435.988 209.590 BM15
619 6029700.321 610.937 BM107 2IN DISC IN TC

219 6029361.067 292.497 BM129

SHEET INDEX

| SHEET 3 7 SHEET 4 7

13795 /\

BUILDING C

BUILDING D

L\
_ 16909

17070

BUILDING B

BUILDING G

wes 18573

| Lr
18403, 18502 18572

i

L\ sane || [ | |
15505 AV? A

BUILDING A

BUILDING E

| |

MIS

SHEETS

aN Alaa

SURVEYOR’S STATEMENT

POINT
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132

13795

15148

15505

16909

17070

17403

17761

18403

18502

18572

18573

NORTHING
2030209.51
2030504.74
2030529.41
2030799.01
2031056.33
2031379.63
2031090.50
2030773.40
2030235.31
2030300.28
2030377.66
2030570.77
2030625.80
2030694.58
2030838.19
2030754.44
2030894.62
2030919.65
2030997.35
2031114.89
2031211.82
2031348.15
2031237.23
2031146.63
2031014.46
2030777.85
2030443.06
2030610.57
2031389.06
2031157.56
2030560.18
2030529.10
2030774.42
2030875.20
2031119.70
2031090.85
2031009.35

2031138.28

THIS FIELD SURVEY DATA WAS PREPARED UNDER MY
DIRECTION IN CONFORMANCE WITH THE PROFESSIONAL

LAND SURVEYORS ACT.

“Typ

MIKE SHOUP, PLS

—,

NOT TO SCALE

CONTROL POINT TABLE

EASTING
6039184.12
6039722.25
6039022.16
6038812.38
6038564.40
6039111.69
6039354.35
6039493.81
6039267.30
6039382.56
6039517.13
6039077.01
6039177.51
6039347.61
6038865.82
6038947.57
6038964.73
6039017.62
6039156.93
6038678.17
6038809.79
6039052.34
6039141.95
6039181.77
6039309.44
6039442.61
6039636.34
6039554.58
6039009.04
6038761.50
6039425.05
6039357.69
6039143.73
6039078.79
6038840.46
6038885.67
6038930.61

6039013.50

ELEVATION

6.67
7.00
6.39
7.13
5.29
7.30
5.25
8.16
7.83
7.81
7.79
7.99
8.25
7.44
7.46
7.86
7.53
7.82
8.33
7.89
7.78
7.64
7.86
8.07
7.87
7.46
7.74
7.56
3.38
8.27
7.82
6.76
8.46
8.50
8.29
8.09
8.06

8.80

DESCRIPTION
REY100 MAG NAIL
REY101 MAG IN TC
REY102 MAG NAIL
REY103 MAG NAIL
REY104 MAG NAIL

REY105 MAG NAIL
REY106 MAG IN TC
REY107 MAG IN TC
REY114 MAG NAIL
REY115 MAG NAIL
REY106 MAG NAIL
REY117 MAG NAIL
REY118 MAG NAIL
REY119 MAG NAIL
REY120 MAG NAIL
REY121 MAG NAIL
REY122 60D NAIL
REY123 MAG NAIL
REY124 MAG NAIL
REY125 MAG NAIL
REY126 MG NAIL
REY127 MAG NAIL
REY128 MAG NAIL
REY129 MAG NAIL
REY130 MAG NAIL
REY131 MAG NAIL

REY132 MAG NAIL
WP13795 MAG NAIL
WP15148 GINNIE
WP15505 MAG NAIL
WP16909 MAG NAIL
WP17070 MAG NAIL

WP17403 H&T

WP17761 MAG NAIL
WP18403 MAG NAIL
WP18502 MAG NAIL

WP18572 MAG NAIL

WP18573 MAG NAIL

140

(650) 507

PALO ALTO, CA 94303

2100 GENG ROAD, SUITE 210
Phone:

CIVIL ENGINEERS | LAND SURVEYORS | REMOTE SENSING

LINK LOGISTICS BAYSHORE

TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY

3/6/2025

NOT TO SCALE


--- page 386 ---
C0.5
NOT TO SCALE

--- page 387 ---
C0.6
NOT TO SCALE

--- page 388 ---
C0.7
NOT TO SCALE

--- page 389 ---
C0.8
NOT TO SCALE

--- page 390 ---
BETTY LANE
80' WIDE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
AMPHLETT BOULEVARD
60' WIDE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
S. GRANT STREET
60' WIDE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
DRAINAGE CHANNEL
60' WIDE RIGHT OF WAY
SCO
SCO
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
UN
UN
UN
IW
IW
IW
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
E
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
IW
E
SD
SD
SD
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
W
W
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
W
W
COMM
COMM
E
E
W
SS
SS
SS
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
W
W
W
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
COMM
SS
SS
SS
COMM
COMM
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
E
E
E
E
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
COMM
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
FW
FW
FW
FW
FW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
COMM
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
COMM
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
IW
IW
IW
IW
FW
FW
FW
FW
COMM
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SS
SD
SD
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
UN
UN
UN
IW
IW
IW
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
UN
E
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
IW
E
SD
SD
SD
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
W
W
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
W
W
COMM
COMM
E
E
W
SS
SS
SS
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
W
W
W
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
COMM
SS
SS
SS
COMM
COMM
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
E
E
E
E
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
COMM
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
FW
FW
FW
FW
FW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
COMM
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
COMM
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
GAS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
TV
TV
TV
TV
TV
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
IW
IW
IW
IW
FW
FW
FW
FW
COMM
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
IW
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SS
SD
SD
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
PROJ NO: J0164
C1.0
EXISTING SITE & UTILITY PLAN
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N
·
·

--- page 391 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
BUILDING 22
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
STREET B
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
STREET A
ALLEY K
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
ALLEY J
STREET B
C7.1
XS4
C7.2
XS5
C7.3
XS6
C6.1
XS1
C6.3
XS3
C6.2
XS2
2
2
1
4
2
2
1
3
3
1
5
5
5
7
7
7
8
8
1
6
S1
S1
S2
S3
S4
S5
S5
M2
M2
M1
M3
M3
M3
M3
M3
M3
M3
M3
M4
M4
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
1
2
3
4
5
6
AU
7
8
S1
S2
S3
S4
M1
M2
M4
M3
S5
N
PROJ NO: J0164
C2.0
CIVIL SITE PLAN - OVERALL
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025

--- page 392 ---
R/W
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECY
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
STREET A
ALLEY J
C6.1
XS1
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C2.1
CIVIL SITE PLAN - N
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 393 ---
R/W
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
LDING 7
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
STREET B
C6.3
XS3
C6.2
XS2
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C2.1
CIVIL SITE PLAN - N
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 394 ---
SCO
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
AU
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
YCLE
TRASH
OMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUIL
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
STREET B
ALLEY K
C7.3
XS6
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C2.3
CIVIL SITE PLAN - S
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 395 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
R/W
R/W
AU
AU
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
CO
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 22
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
C7.1
XS4
C7.2
XS5
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C2.4
CIVIL SITE PLAN - W
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 396 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
BUILDING 22
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
STREET B
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
STREET A
ALLEY K
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
ALLEY J
STREET B
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
2
2
LOT SUMMARY
LOT SUMMARY
LOT SUMMARY
PARCEL SUMMARY
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
PROJ NO: J0164
1
2
·
·
·
·
·
C2.5
PARCELIZATION PLAN
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 397 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
BUILDING 22
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
STREET B
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
STREET A
ALLEY K
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
ALLEY J
STREET B
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
PROJ NO: J0164
C2.6
FIRE ACCESS PLAN
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 398 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
AU
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
BUILDING 22
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
C7.1
XS4
C7.2
XS5
C7.3
XS6
C6.1
XS1
C6.2
XS2
C6.3
XS3
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
STREET B
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
STREET A
ALLEY K
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
ALLEY J
STREET B
PROJ NO: J0164
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C3.0
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - OVERALL
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 399 ---
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
STREET A
ALLEY J
C6.1
XS1
PROJ NO: J0164
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C3.1
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - N
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 400 ---
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
1
5
°
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
1
5
°
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
LDING 7
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
STREET B
C6.2
XS2
C6.3
XS3
PROJ NO: J0164
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C3.2
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - E
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 401 ---
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
OMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUIL
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
STREET B
ALLEY K
C7.3
XS6
PROJ NO: J0164
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C3.3
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - S
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 402 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
CO
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 22
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
C7.1
XS4
C7.2
XS5
PROJ NO: J0164
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C3.4
PRELIMINARY GRADING PLAN - W
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 403 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
BUILDING 22
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
PROJ NO: J0164
C4.0
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - OVERALL
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 404 ---
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECY
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
PROJ NO: J0164
C4.1
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - N
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 405 ---
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
LDING 7
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
PROJ NO: J0164
C4.2
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - E
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 406 ---
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
YCLE
TRASH
OMPOSTRECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUIL
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
PROJ NO: J0164
C4.3
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - S
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 407 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
CO
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 22
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
PROJ NO: J0164
C4.4
PRELIMINARY UTILITY PLAN - W
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 408 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
R/W
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
BUILDING 22
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
DMA-33
DMA-26
DMA-39
DEQ-1
DEQ-2
DEQ-3
DEQ-4
DEQ-7
OS-80
OS-90
OS-100
DMA-25
DMA-5
DMA-6
DMA-8
DMA-10
DMA-13
DMA-14
DMA-15
DMA-30
DMA-17
DMA-19
DMA-3
DMA-22
DMA-21
DMA-23
DMA-29
DMA-20
DMA-1
DMA-36
DMA-38
DMA-32
DMA-31
DMA-2
DMA-24
DMA-4
DMA-7
DMA-9
DMA-11
DMA-12
DMA-16
DMA-28
DMA-27
DMA-18
DMA-35
DMA-37
DMA-34
DEQ-5
DEQ-6
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
STREET B
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
STREET A
ALLEY K
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
ALLEY J
STREET B
WIDTH VARIES
12" MIN.
CALTRANS CLASS II
PERMEABLE AGGREGATE
NOTES:
1.
AVOID COMPACTION OF EXISTING SUBGRADE BELOW
PLANTER FOR INFILTRATION FACILITIES.
2.
SCARIFY SUBGRADE TO A DEPTH OF 6 INCHES (MIN)
IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO PLACEMENT OF GRAVEL STORAGE
AND BIORETENTION SOIL.
3.
BIO-RETENTION SOIL MIX PER SPECIFICATIONS IN APPENDIX
K OF THE SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE WATER POLLUTION
PREVENTION PROGRAM, C.3 STORMWATER TECHNICAL
GUIDANCE DOCUMENT.
4.
MATERIAL SUBMITTAL FOR BIO-RETENTION SOIL MIX TO BE
APPROVED BY THE ENGINEER OF RECORD AND CITY OF
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO PRIOR TO DELIVERY TO THE SITE.
SEE DETAIL 4, SHEET C5.3, FOR POTENTIAL SUPPLIERS.
DESIGN PONDING
ELEVATION
OVERFLOW
STRUCTURE SEE
6" MIN PONDING
DEPTH
6"
STORM DRAIN PIPE
6" (TYP)
EXPOSED WALL
2" (MIN)
FREEBOARD
3" NON-FLOATABLE MULCH
SEE, LANDSCAPE PLANS
EXTEND LINER OR EQUAL
WATERPROOFING TO TOP OF
PONDING ELEVATION WHEN
WITHIN 10'  OF BUILDING OR
PROPERTY LINE
4" TYPICAL FOR INFILTRATION
2" WITH WATERPROOF LINER
STREAMBED COBBLES OR
EQUAL FOR ENERGY DISSIPATION
18" (MIN)
BIORETENTION SOIL,
SEE NOTE 3
WATERPROOF LINER WHERE
REQUIRED (WHERE LINER PROVIDED,
LOCATE UNDERDRAIN AT BOTTOM OF
AGGREGATE LAYER)
INLET CURB CUT
4" UNDERDRAIN W/ PERFORATIONS DOWN
18" (MIN)
12" (MIN)
ROADWAY/PARKING
1' (MIN)
1"
BIORETENTION SOIL
SCARIFIED AND UNCOMPACTED
SUBGRADE, SEE NOTES 1 & 2
COMPACTED BIORETENTION
OR NATIVE SOIL, SEE NOTE 3
SIDEWALK OR
LANDSCAPING
1
3 MAX
1
1
2%
2" (MIN) FREEBOARD
2' (MIN)
CONSTRUCTION NOTES:
1.
AVOID COMPACTION OF EXISTING SUBGRADE BELOW BASIN.
2.
SCARIFY SUBGRADE TO A DEPTH OF 3 INCHES (MIN) IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO PLACEMENT OF AGGREGATE STORAGE AND
BIORETENTION SOIL MATERIALS.
3.
COMPACT BIORETENTION SOIL IMMEDIATELY BEHIND CURB TO 90% OF MAXIMUM DENSITY PER STANDARD PROCTOR TEST
(ASTM D698).
3.
BIO-RETENTION SOIL MIX PER SPECIFICATIONS IN APPENDIX K OF THE SAN MATEO COUNTYWIDE WATER POLLUTION
PREVENTION PROGRAM, C.3 STORMWATER TECHNICAL GUIDANCE DOCUMENT.
4.
MATERIAL SUBMITTAL FOR BIO-RETENTION SOIL MIX TO BE APPROVED BY THE ENGINEER OF RECORD.
AGGREGATE BASE
6" MIN
PONDIING
DEPTH
3" NON-FLOATABLE MULCH
STREAMBED COBBLES
FOR ENERGY DISSIPATION
4" UNDERDRAIN
1
3 MAX
SFD-X
OS-X
DEQ-X
DMA-X
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C5.0
PRELIMINARY STORMWATER
CONTROL PLAN
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N
1
FLOW-THRU PLANTER
2
BIO-RETENTION AREA

--- page 409 ---
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C5.1
STORMWATER CONTROL CALCULATIONS
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025

--- page 410 ---
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C5.2
STORMWATER O&M FORMS
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025

--- page 411 ---
℄
⅊
R/W
X
X
X
R/W
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
COMPOSTRECYCLE
RECYCLE
TRASH
COMPOST
C6.1
XS1
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
XS1 TYPICAL SECTION - S. AMPHLETT STA 202+00
1
SOUTH AMPLHETT DRIVE
SCALE: H-1"=5'
V- 1"=2.5'
C6.1
S. AMPHLETT BLVD - PLAN & SECTION
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 412 ---
℄
⅊
R/W
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
RECYCLE
COMPOST
RECYCLE
COMPOST
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
1
5
°
TRASH
COMPOSTRECYCLE
C6.2
XS2
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
1
SOUTH AMPLHETT DRIVE
XS2 TYPICAL SECTION - S. AMPLETT STA 206+00
C6.2
S. AMPHLETT BLVD - PLAN & SECTION
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N
SCALE: H-1"=5'
V- 1"=2.5'

--- page 413 ---
℄
⅊
R/W
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
C6.3
XS3
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
1
SOUTH AMPLHETT DRIVE
XS3 TYPICAL SECTION - S. AMPLETT STA 211+00
C6.3
S. AMPHLETT BLVD - PLAN & SECTION
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N
SCALE: H-1"=5'
V- 1"=2.5'

--- page 414 ---
℄
⅊
⅊
SCO
SCO
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
R/W
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
SL
SL
S
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
SL
SL
S
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SS
SS
SS
SS
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
C7.1
XS4
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
SCALE: H-1"=5'
V- 1"=2.5'
C7.1
S. GRANT ST - PLAN & SECTION
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N
1
SOUTH GRANT STREET
XS4 TYPICAL SECTION - S. GRANT STA 101+00

--- page 415 ---
℄
⅊
⅊
SCO
SCO
R/W
R/W
R/W
R
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
L
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
SS
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
L
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
SS
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
FIRST FLOOR
ALLEY J
C7.2
XS5
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C7.2
S. GRANT ST - PLAN & SECTION
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N
SCALE: H-1"=5'
V- 1"=2.5'
1
SOUTH GRANT STREET
XS5 TYPICAL SECTION - S. GRANT STA 105+00

--- page 416 ---
℄
⅊
⅊
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
SS
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SS
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
SL
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
COMM
SS
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SD
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
SFD-A FIRST FLOOR
SCALE 1/4''
C7.3
XS6
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C7.3
S. GRANT ST - PLAN & SECTION
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N
SCALE: H-1"=5'
V- 1"=2.5'
XS6 TYPICAL SECTION - S. GRANT STA 109+50
1
SOUTH GRANT STREET

--- page 417 ---
1+00
1+50
2+00
2+50
3+00
3+50
4+00
4+50
5+00
5+50
6+00
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
R/W
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
PROJ NO: J0164
S A G E
Consulting Engineers, Inc.
235 Pine Street, Suite 1475.   San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 890-5250  .  www.Sage-CE.com
B9 SEQUOIA BAYSHORE
OWNER LP
BAYSHORE
COMMONS
SAN MATEO, CA
C8.0
LESLIE CREEK SECTIONS
VESTING TENTATIVE MAP
PLANNING SUBMITTAL #3
OCTOBER 28, 2025
N

--- page 418 ---
ALLEY G

BUILDING 23 |

ALLEY K

LESLIE CREEK —
ALLEY A

ALLEY |

INV] ALLA8

iva

0 20°40’ 80’ 120’

- SCALE: 1” = 40’-0”

BAYSHORE COMMONS - PRELIMINARY LANDSCAPE PLAN _L1.01

01/16/2026 | 1650-1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA

DAHLIN

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN

PLA #3335 - 2 Theatre Square #218 - Orinda CA - 94563
925.254.5422 - www.jett.land


--- page 419 ---
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
PRELIMINARY LANDSCAPE PLAN ENLARGEMENTS
L1.02

--- page 420 ---
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
L1.03
PRELIMINARY LANDSCAPE PLAN ENLARGEMENTS

--- page 421 ---
1
1
1
1
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
L1.04
PRELIMINARY LANDSCAPE PLAN ENLARGEMENTS

--- page 422 ---
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
PRECEDENT IMAGES & CONCEPT DETAILS
L2.01

--- page 423 ---
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
BUILDING 22
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
STREET B
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
STREET A
ALLEY K
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
ALLEY J
STREET B
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
PRELIMINARY PLANTING PLAN
L3.01

--- page 424 ---
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
PRELIMINARY PLANT SCHEDULE & IMAGES
L3.02

--- page 425 ---
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
X
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
SCO
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
910
11
12
13
14 15
16 17
22
21
20
19
18
23
24
25
26
27 2829
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38 39
40
41
42 43 44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
6263
64
65
66
67
68 69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121 122123 124 125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138 139 140 141 142
143
144
145146
147
148
149
150
151
152 153154
155 156
161
160
159
157
158
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
TREE PROTECTION & REMOVAL PLAN
L4.01

--- page 426 ---
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
ARBORIST REPORT
L4.02.1

--- page 427 ---
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
ARBORIST REPORT
L4.02.2

--- page 428 ---
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
ARBORIST REPORT
L4.02.3

--- page 429 ---
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
ARBORIST REPORT - TREE DATA
L4.02.4

--- page 430 ---
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
ARBORIST REPORT - TREE DATA & TREE LOCATION MAP
L4.02.5

--- page 431 ---
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
ARBORIST REPORT - TREE EVALUATION SCHEDULE
L4.02.6

--- page 432 ---
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
TREE REPLACEMENT SCHEDULE & ARBORIST MEMO
L4.03

--- page 433 ---
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
BUILDING 1
BUILDING 2
BUILDING 3
BUILDING 4
BUILDING 5
BUILDING 6
BUILDING 7
BUILDING 8
BUILDING 9
BUILDING 10
BUILDING 11
BUILDING 12
BUILDING 13
BUILDING 14
BUILDING 15
BUILDING 16
BUILDING 17
BUILDING 18
BUILDING 19
BUILDING 20
BUILDING 21
BUILDING 22
BUILDING 23
BUILDING 24
BUILDING 25
BUILDING 26
BUILDING 27
BUILDING 28
BUILDING 29
BUILDING 30
BUILDING 31
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
EV
CHARGING
VAN
VAN
VAN
VAN
ALLEY C
ALLEY D
ALLEY E
ALLEY F
ALLEY G
ALLEY H
STREET B
ALLEY A
ALLEY B
ALLEY I
ALLEY J
STREET A
STREET A
ALLEY K
ALLEY K
ALLEY L
ALLEY J
STREET B
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
PRELIMINARY LIGHTING PLAN
L5.01

--- page 434 ---
PLA #3335 · 2 Theatre Square #218 · Orinda CA · 94563
925.254.5422 · www.jett.land
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE + DESIGN BAYSHORE COMMONS
01/16/2026    |    1650 - 1720 S. AMPHLETT BLVD, SAN MATEO, CA
Exp: 05/31/26
E
A
T
T
S
A
I
N
R
O
F
F
O
L
A
C
T
C
E
T
I
H
3335
D
E
E
T
S
I
G
E
R
R
E
P
A
C
S
D
N
A
L
R
A
C
I
B
R
U
C
E
 
B
.
 
J
E
T
T
Date: 1/15/26
PRELIMINARY LIGHTING SCHEDULE & IMAGES
L5.02

--- page 435 ---
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DATA FORM
NAME: 
Bayshore Commons (SPAR + 
SDPA + Vesting Tentative Map)
PA: 
PA-2025-029
ADDRESS: 
1650-1720 S. Amphlett 
Boulevard
TOTAL:
  14.47 acres (630,418 sq. ft.)
ZONING: 
E2-1 (Executive Office)
APN: 
035-241-240, 035-241-250, and 
035-241-260
MINIMUM PLOT AREA:
PROPOSED
630,418 sq. ft.
MINIMUM ALLOWED
6,000 sq. ft.
FLOOR AREA:
  
PROPOSED
590,788 sq. ft. 
MAXIMUM ALLOWED
-
Floor Area Ratio (FAR): 
0.93 
-
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
  
17.7 units/acre
50 units/acre
BLDG. HEIGHT:
   
31’-8”
-
STORIES:
 3 stories
3- 5 stories
UNITS:
  
256
724
UNIT TYPE
  2-Bedroom:
  3-Bedroom+:
TOTAL:
NO.20 
236
256
PROPOSED SIZE
1,346 sq. ft. to 1,475 sq. ft.
1,448 sq. ft. to 2,252 sq. ft.
MINIMUM SIZE
-
-
SETBACKS/BUFFERS:
  Front (Grant St.):
  Left Side:
  Right Side:
  Rear (Residential Buffer):
PROPOSED
14.66’
15’-0”1
15’-0”
15’-0” 
MINIMUM REQUIRED
7-6”
1/2 Building Height (18’-6”)
-
7’-6” 
PARKING:
  Resident:
  Visitor:  
PROPOSED
512
55
MINIMUM REQUIRED
-
-
LOADING SPACES:
1
1
BICYCLE PARKING
  Long-Term:
  Short-Term:
 30
298
29
283
OPEN SPACE:
  
259,700 sq. ft. (41 % at-grade)
126,083 sq. ft. (20% at-grade)
FOOTNOTES:
1.
The applicant has requested waiver to reduce setback/landscape buffer through the State 
Density Bonus Law.

--- page 436 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Three Embarcadero Center, 12th Floor | San Francisco, CA 94111-4074 
Telephone: 415.837.1515 | Facsimile: 415.837.1516 
www.allenmatkins.com 
David H. Blackwell 
E-mail: dblackwell@allenmatkins.com 
Direct Dial: 415.273.7463   File Number: 394037.00003/4904-8052-5145.8 
 
 
Los Angeles | Orange County | San Diego | Century City | San Francisco | New York 
Allen Matkins 
Via Electronic Mail 
January 16, 2026 
Planning Division 
City of San Mateo 
330 West 20th Avenue 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
 
Re: 
Density Bonus Law Information 
1650 S. Amphlett Blvd., Bayshore Commons 
Dear Planning Division: 
On behalf of B9 Sequoia Bayshore Owner LP (“Applicant”), the owner and developer of the 
above-referenced project, we submit information regarding the project’s implementation of the state 
Density Bonus Law (“DBL,” Gov. Code § 65915).  This information is intended to update the 
information provided in our October 28, 2025 correspondence as requested by City Staff on January 
6, 2026. 
As set forth in our August 15 and October 28, 2025 DBL cover letters, the DBL has three 
distinct primary components relevant to the project: (1) Density Bonuses;  
(2) Incentives/Concessions;1 and (3) Development Standard Reductions or Waivers.2 Although 
interrelated, each component serves a different purpose and is governed by unique standards. 
I. 
Density Bonus 
Section 65915(b)(1) of the DBL provides that a project qualifies for a density bonus “when 
an applicant for a housing development seeks and agrees to construct a housing development” that 
meets one or more of the statute’s thresholds, including providing at least 10% of the units for sale 
to moderate income households, as here.  (Gov. Code § 65915(b)(1)(D).  By setting aside 38 
moderate income units, the project exceeds the DBL’s 10% threshold3 and entitles the project to the 
 
1 
Referred to as “incentives” herein since the terms are synonymous. 
2 
Referred to as “waivers” herein. 
3 
Providing 38 moderate income units also complies with the City’s Below Market Rate Program 
requirements.  15% of 256 equates to 38.4 units, which is not rounded up per Section III(b) of the 
Program.  As required by Staff, the Applicant will provide a fee for the remaining 0.4 fractional unit 
per Section III(c)(2) and Municipal Code section 27.16.050.

--- page 437 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Planning Division 
January 16, 2026 
Page 2 
 
incentive and waivers discussed below.  The project’s 256 total units are well below the project 
site’s maximum allowable residential density of 50 dwelling units per acre, thus no density bonus is 
requested or necessary.   
II. 
Incentives 
The number of incentives is derived from the number of affordable units that are provided.  
In this case, the project is entitled to at least one incentive because it is setting aside at least 10% of 
its units for sale to moderate income households.  (Gov. Code § 65915(d)(2)(A).)  A local agency 
bears the burden of proof if it denies an incentive request. (Gov. Code § 65915(d)(4).)  For example, 
a “municipality has the burden of proof of demonstrating that an incentive would not generate cost 
savings.” (HCD Letter of Technical Assistance to City of Larkspur, May 12, 2022, p. 3.)  Section 
65915(d)(1) requires cities to approve incentives unless specified written findings based on 
substantial evidence are made, and the only reasons for denial are set forth in subdivisions (d)(1), 
referenced above.   
This burden was further established in Schreiber v. City of Los Angeles (2021) 69 
Cal.App.5th 549, 555, where the court of appeal explained that there is a presumption that an 
incentive will result in cost reductions and that an applicant “is not required to establish that cost 
reductions will result.”  Instead, a city must approve the incentive request unless it makes one of the 
written findings set forth in Section 65915(d)(1). (Ibid.)  “By requiring the city to grant incentives 
unless it makes particular findings, the statute places the burden of proof on the city to overcome 
the presumption that incentives will result in cost reductions.”  (Id. at 556.)   
III. 
Development Standard Waivers  
In addition to, and separate from, requests for incentives, a density bonus applicant may 
request a waiver or reduction of development standards that would have the effect of physically 
precluding the construction of the project at the densities or with the incentives permitted under the 
statute.  (Gov. Code § 65915(e)(1).)   
The definition of a “development standard” includes a site or construction condition, 
including, without limitation, local height, setback, floor area ratio, onsite open space, and parking 
area ratio requirements that would otherwise apply to residential development pursuant to 
ordinances, general plan elements, specific plans, charters, or other local condition, law, policy, 
resolution, or regulation.  (Gov. Code § 65915(o)(2).)  A request for a development standard waiver 
neither reduces nor increases the number of incentives to which the developer is otherwise entitled.  
(Gov. Code § 65915(e)(2).)  Furthermore, there is no limit on the number of waivers that may be 
issued.   
As with incentives, recent case law has clarified the legal principles regarding waivers. The 
Schreiber case discussed above confirms (at p. 556) that a city may refuse a request to waive or 
reduce development standards only if it makes written findings that the waiver or reduction would

--- page 438 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Planning Division 
January 16, 2026 
Page 3 
 
have a specific adverse impact on the public health or safety. (See Gov. Code § 65915(e)(1).) In 
addition, another recent case upholding a city’s approval of a DBL project confirmed that waivers 
are based on the project as proposed by the developer: “even if we assume the Project as designed is 
inconsistent with some of the City’s design standards, the Density Bonus Law would preclude the 
City from applying those standards to deny this project.” (Bankers Hill 150 v. City of San Diego 
(2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 755, 775.)  Therefore, a local agency may not respond to a waiver request 
that a project could be redesigned to avoid the need for a waiver. (Id. at 774-775 [rejecting 
argument that the project “could have been built more horizontally” to comply with design 
standards.”].) 
The following requests for waivers or reductions in development standards are identified 
below.  These development standards are derived from the City’s Objective Design Standards, 
effective January 3, 2024.  For depictions of the applicable development standards, please refer to 
the “Page Number” column of the ODS Checklist submitted herewith. 
• 3.1.2.D – Pedestrian Paseos.  This standard requires a minimum eight-foot-wide 
public access easement within the required minimum paseo width for pedestrian 
access.  This waiver is requested to allow pathways and paseos to be private 
pedestrian easements.  Without the requested waiver, the project could not be 
developed as proposed. 
• 3.1.2.F - Pedestrian Paseos.  This standard requires a minimum of three pedestrian 
amenities identified therein for at least every twenty linear feet.  This waiver is 
requested to allow development shared spaces and public spaces to include 
additional amenities.  Without the requested waiver, the project could not be 
developed as proposed. 
• 4.1.2 - Articulation Details.  This development standard requires that for low-rise 
buildings, at least two of the following shall be provided.  
o A. Architectural projections such as roof eaves, overhangs, cornices, 
pergolas, or metal, wood, or glass awnings  
o B. Balconies per unit  
o C. Box or bay windows per unit  
o D. Window recesses and edges, including mouldings and reveals with at least 
three-inch depth  
o E. Projecting or recessed rooms or units for a minimum of ten percent of the 
units along the building façade for low-rise development or a minimum of 
thirty (30) percent of the units for mid and high-rise development

--- page 439 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Planning Division 
January 16, 2026 
Page 4 
 
o F. Horizontal mouldings that are at least three inches minimum 
This waiver is requested to allow for units that provide sun-rooms per  AB 130’s 
balcony limitations to provide only one of the details (item A).  (All other units will 
include details A and B and therefore comply.)  Without the requested waiver, the 
project could not be developed as proposed. 
• 4.1.3.B - Building Materials and Colors.  This standard provides that color or 
material excluding trim shall constitute at least 10% of the building façade.  The 
waiver is requested to allow color or materials to constitute less than 10% of the 
building façade.  Without the requested waiver, the project could not be developed as 
proposed. 
• 4.1.3.C - Building Materials and Colors.  This standard requires any change in 
color or material to be characterized by a minimum six-inch offset from the adjacent 
building plane, or architectural element such as moldings or bandings shall be used 
to create the offset.  The waiver is requested to allow changes in color or materials 
without a six-inch offset.  Without the requested waiver, the project could not be 
developed as proposed. 
• 4.1.4 - Massing Breaks – Generally.  This standard provides that structures three or 
more stories and sixty feet or greater in length shall follow the rule of thirds in which 
a structure is divided into at least three primary masses.  This waiver is requested to 
allow elevations to be divided into two primary masses.  Without the requested 
waiver, the project could not be developed as proposed. 
• 4.1.5 - Massing Breaks – Low-rise buildings.  Under this standard, low-rise 
buildings shall have a minimum 18 inch-deep wall plane break for every 15 to 30 
feet of horizontal wall length.  A waiver is requested to instead allow for plane 
breaks every 81 feet.  Without the requested waiver, the project could not be 
developed as proposed.  
• 4.2.2 - Residential Entries.  According to this standard, entries to ground-floor 
residential uses shall be located 18 to 42 inches above or below the grade of the 
adjacent public sidewalk.  Some of the project’s residential entries will be located at 
heights less than 18 inches above grade.  Without the requested waiver, the project 
could not be developed as proposed. 
• 4.5.1 - Roof Form.  Variation.  This standard provides that all buildings up to four 
stories in height shall provide variations of roof height and/or form for 30% 
minimum of the roofline.  A waiver is requested to avoid a roof height variation

--- page 440 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Planning Division 
January 16, 2026 
Page 5 
 
requirement.  Without the requested waiver, the project could not be developed as 
proposed. 
• 4.5.2.B - Roof From – Additional Requirements.  This standard states that eave 
treatment including depth, material, style, and brackets shall match on a building.  A 
waiver is requested to allow non-matching eave depths.  Without the requested 
waiver, the project could not be developed as proposed. 
• 4.6.1.A - Window and Door Alignment – Vertical Alignment.  This standard 
provides that for building facades that front a street or public right-of-way, windows, 
doors, arches, and balconies shall align vertically along a center line through these 
elements. Where the ground floor or base of a building is a nonresidential use, 
vertical alignment shall begin from the second floor or wherever the residential use 
begins.  A waiver is requested to allow non-centrally aligned windows, doors, and 
balconies.  Without the requested waiver, the project could not be developed as 
proposed. 
• 4.6.1.B - Window and Door Alignment – Horizontal Alignment.  This standard 
provides that sets of windows, doors, arches, or balconies may span more than the 
width of a single element above or below if the left- most and right-most outside 
edges of the set of elements align with the width of the elements above or below and 
if the elements within a set are evenly spaced.  A waiver is requested to allow non-
horizontally aligned windows, doors, and balconies.  Without the requested waiver, 
the project could not be developed as proposed. 
• 4.6.1.C.1-3 - Window and Door Size.  This standard has four subparts, and waivers 
are requested for the first three.  The first requires that windows, bays, and doors 
shall be vertically oriented, rectangular, and taller than they are wide.  The second 
requires vertical window elements to be maintained through proportionality and 
divided lites.  The third provides that windows, doors, arches, and balconies must be 
equal in size or smaller than the element they are aligned with on the floor below. 
Waivers are necessary because the townhome units will include windows that are 
horizontally oriented. These windows are either grouped to create a sense of 
verticality or are located at the higher elevations for privacy purposes.  Without this 
development standard waiver, the proposed project could not be developed.  
• 4.6.2 - Windows – Depth.  This standard requires windows to be recessed a 
minimum of three inches from the exterior wall surface unless the architectural style 
dictates flush (curtain wall) or protruding windows. Alternatively, a three-inch 
window trim may be provided. Where a curtain wall is used, no recess or protrusion 
is required. Wainscoting, sills, and/or reveals shall be incorporated into deep-set

--- page 441 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Planning Division 
January 16, 2026 
Page 6 
 
windows.  A waiver is requested to allow windows that are not recessed.  Without 
this development standard waiver, the proposed project could not be developed. 
• 4.6.3.C – Window Details.  This standard requires all windows to include detailing 
using at least two of the following: window trim, projected lintel, projected sill, and 
sashes.  The project’s windows will include window trim, but not the other details.  
Without the requested waiver, the project could not be developed as proposed. 
• 4.6.3.D - Lites.  Lites are required to “be square or vertically oriented rectangles.”  
Less than 10% of the lites will be horizontal and rectangular, which will be grouped 
in assemblies to provide natural light within certain units or to maintain privacy.  
Requiring the project to strictly comply with this development standards would 
preclude development of the project as proposed. 
• 4.6.3.E - Windows – Reflectivity, Transparency, and Details – Matching Lite 
Size and Proportions.  Under this standard, the size and proportion of lites shall be 
consistent among windows in a group.  A waiver is requested to allow variation in 
lite sizes and proportions.  Without this development standard waiver, the project 
could not be developed as proposed. 
• 4.6.5.A - Entries, Doors, and Stairways – Entry Locations.  This standard requires 
each façade adjacent to a street to have at least one pedestrian or main entry fronting 
the primary or secondary street frontage or, where  public paseo exists, to that paseo. 
A waiver is requested to allow entries that do not face S Amphlett frontage.  Without 
this development standard waiver, the project could not be developed as proposed. 
 
• 4.6.5.D.2 - Entries, Doors, and Stairways.  This standard requires that all 
individual garage doors be recessed a minimum of six inches from the surrounding 
building wall.  This waiver is requested to allow garage doors that are recessed, but 
less than six inches due to limitations on framing materials. Without the requested 
waiver, the project could not be developed as proposed. 
• 4.6.5.E.1-3 - Utility Room Entries.  This development standard contains three 
subparts from which waivers are requested.  The first does not allow exterior-facing 
utility rooms to be located on the primary street frontage.  The second provides that 
when visible from a public right-of-way, utility room doors and emergency exits 
shall be the same materials, colors, and style as the main entry doors.  The third 
provides an exception by stating that the above standards shall not apply if they 
conflict with the rules and regulations of PG&E, another private or public utility 
conveyor, or the Fire or Building Code.  The project’s utility closets will face S. 
Amphlett Blvd.  To the extent that the project would conflict with the first two 
subparts of this development standard, a waiver is necessary because the project

--- page 442 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Planning Division 
January 16, 2026 
Page 7 
 
could not otherwise be developed as proposed.  The third subpart is an exception to 
the first two subparts, which technically would not require a waiver, but this waiver 
request is meant to clearly seek relief from 4.6.5.E to the extent that it is otherwise 
applicable. 
• 5.1.1.B – Private Open Space.  This standard consists of the following criteria: (1) 
the fronts and sides of balconies shall consist of obscured glass, slats, or partially 
transparent grating or railing that is at least 50% open; (2) enclosed private ground-
floor open spaces fronting a public street and/or sidewalk shall have an enclosure 
between 3-4 feet in height; and (3) enclosure materials shall be limited to the 
following: walls of a color and materials that match those used for the main 
buildings; wrought iron fencing; glass; or wood.  Some of the project’s balconies 
will be enclosed by solid walls, and the private courtyards adjacent to S. Grant Street 
will be enclosed by 3-4 foot high wood fencing.  Requiring the project to comply 
with this development standard would preclude its development as proposed. 
• 6.2.1 – Transformers.  This standard provides that transformers “shall be located 
within a structure or placed underground,” and if this is not feasible, then “an above-
ground transformer shall be permitted but shall be located outside of any required 
setbacks and open space areas and shall be screened from public view with 
landscaping and fencing/walls.”  The project will include approximately 15 
transformers, which cannot be located within a structure or underground, nor will 
they be screened by landscaping and fencing or walls.  Requiring the project to 
comply with this development standard would preclude its development as proposed. 
• 6.3 – Required Screening.  This development standard requires all above-ground 
onsite ancillary features to be screened via certain identified methods.  As noted 
above, the project’s transformers will not be screened, and compliance with this 
development standard would preclude construction of the project as proposed. 
• 7.6.1.B.3 - Site Planning – Building, Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features 
– Setbacks.  Section 7.6 pertains to the ODS applicable to the San Mateo Corridor 
TOD Plan Area.  This subsection requires residential setback areas to include at least 
one of the following for every unit that fronts the sidewalk: (1) porch/stoop; (2) 
landscaped areas; (3) small private gardens.  A waiver is requested to allow entries 
and porches that do not face the S. Amphlett frontage.  Requiring the project to 
comply with this development standard would preclude its development as proposed. 
• 7.6.1.C - Site Planning – Building, Siting, Orientation, and Frontage Features – 
Entries.  This standard requires all primary building entries to face the public street 
and sidewalk.  A waiver is requested to allow primary building entries that do not

--- page 443 ---
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP 
Attorneys at Law 
Planning Division 
January 16, 2026 
Page 8 
 
face the S. Amphlett frontage.  Requiring the project to comply with this 
development standard would preclude its development as proposed. 
• 7.6.2.A.1 - Building Design and Architecture – Articulation.  This standard 
contains various articulation requirements for upper floor residential units facing 
local streets.  A waiver is requested to allow side and rear elevations of upper-floor 
residential units facing local streets that do not include occupiable outdoor deck 
designed as usable open space, balconies, or bay windows. Requiring the project to 
comply with this development standard would preclude its development as proposed. 
• 7.6.2.A.2 - Building Design and Architecture – Articulation.  This standard 
contains various articulation requirements for building facades visible from a public 
street or public area.  A waiver is requested to allow such facades, specifically facing 
S. Amphlett, to not provide the identified features.  Requiring the project to comply 
with this development standard would preclude its development as proposed. 
Applicant also seeks waivers from certain development standards imposed via the Municipal 
Code.  For example,  
Municipal Code section 27.48.100 requires landscape buffers for project within the E2 
zoning district that are contiguous to a residential district.  If the City determines that this 
development standard applies to the property, Applicant cannot comply with its requirement that an 
18.5-foot buffer (one-half of the building height) be provided.  Instead, the project will provide a 
15-foot buffer.  Requiring the project to comply with this development standard as described herein 
would preclude development of the project as proposed. 
Municipal Code section 27.71.120 requires certain-sized street trees to be planted no 
greater than 30 feet apart.  In the City’s September 15, 2025 letter, the City Arborist requested 
Applicant to clarify if waivers were needed from these requirements.  Please see the letter dated 
October 28, 2025 from Sage Consulting Engineers, filed herewith, that provides the waiver request 
in detail.  Without the requested waivers, the project could not be developed as proposed. 
The information contained in this letter satisfies Staff’s requests for additional information 
regarding the project’s requested development standard waivers.  We look forward to bringing this 
matter before the Planning Commission. 
Very truly yours, 
 
 
 
David H. Blackwell

--- page 444 ---
Bayshore 
Commons TIA 
SF25-1403 
 
Prepared for:  
Submitted on: 
Link Logistics  
January 9, 2025

--- page 445 ---
P 
Table of Contents  
 
Executive Summary .......................................................................................................................... 1 
Recommendations ......................................................................................................................................................... 1 
Introduction ....................................................................................................................................... 2 
Study Area ........................................................................................................................................................................ 2 
Project Description .......................................................................................................................... 4 
Existing Transportation Conditions ............................................................................................... 6 
Existing Roadway Network ......................................................................................................................................... 6 
Existing Pedestrian Facilities ..................................................................................................................................... 6 
Existing Bicycle Facilities ............................................................................................................................................ 7 
Existing Transit Service ............................................................................................................................................. 12 
Existing Vehicle Volumes, Speeds, and Lane Configurations ...................................................................... 15 
Existing Parking Conditions ...................................................................................................................................... 17 
Project Conditions .......................................................................................................................... 18 
Project Trip Generation ............................................................................................................................................. 18 
Trip Distribution ........................................................................................................................................................... 19 
Intersection Operations ............................................................................................................................................ 20 
Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) ................................................................................................................................ 22 
Additional Transportation Analysis .............................................................................................. 23 
Vehicle Site Access and Circulation .................................................................................................................... 23 
Driveway Sight Distance ................................................................................................................................... 23 
Loading and Curbside Management ............................................................................................................ 24 
Pedestrian & Bicycle Site Access and Circulation .......................................................................................... 24 
Pedestrian Access .............................................................................................................................................. 24 
Bicycle Access ..................................................................................................................................................... 27 
Transit Access and Circulation .............................................................................................................................. 27 
Vehicle Parking Conditions ..................................................................................................................................... 28 
Hazards and Emergency Vehicle Access ........................................................................................................... 28 
South Amphlett Boulevard Proposed Road Diet ...................................................................................... 28 
South Grant Street Recommended Improvements ................................................................................. 29 
Neighborhood Traffic ................................................................................................................................................ 29 
Conclusion ....................................................................................................................................... 30 
Recommendations ..................................................................................................................................................... 30

--- page 446 ---
P 
List of Figures and Tables 
 
Figure 1. Project Location ...................................................................................................................................................3 
Figure 2. Existing Bicycle Facilities ............................................................................................................................... 10 
Figure 3. Proposed Bicycle Facilities ............................................................................................................................ 11 
Table 1: Existing Transit Service ..................................................................................................................................... 12 
Figure 4. Existing Transit Routes ................................................................................................................................... 14 
Table 2: Existing Roadway 24-Hour Vehicle Counts and Speeds ...................................................................... 15 
Figure 5: Existing Vehicle Volumes and Lane Configurations ............................................................................. 16 
Table 3: Project Vehicle Trip Generation .................................................................................................................... 19 
Table 5: Net Project Trips at Concar Dr/S Grant Street by Peak Hour ............................................................. 20 
Figure 6: Trip Distribution and Assignment ............................................................................................................... 21 
Table 5: Existing and Proposed Pedestrian Facilities at South Grant Street and Betty Lane ................... 26 
Figure 7: Proposed Amphlett Roadway Cross Section .......................................................................................... 29 
 
Appendices 
 
Appendix A: Count Data 
Appendix B: Existing Use Credit Comparison Table

--- page 447 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 1 
Executive Summary 
The proposed project will not result in adverse traffic or circulation issues on the streets surrounding 
the project site. The proposed project, which is an infill housing project, is exempt from CEQA 
analysis. The project does not include features that would disrupt roadway facilities nor generate a 
substantial number of vehicle trips that would worsen or create new traffic issues. The following 
recommended changes to the intersection of South Grant Street and Betty Lane would ensure 
consistency with San Mateo standards and best planning practices.  
Recommendations 
• 
The project sponsor should install directional curb ramps, curb extensions, high visibility 
crosswalks, and advanced stop bars to the intersection of South Grant Street and Betty Lane. 
• 
The project sponsor should install Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacons (RRFBs) on both of 
the crosswalks that cross South Grant Street at the intersection of South Grant Street and 
Betty Lane.  
• 
The project sponsor should install industry standard lighting at the intersection of South Grant 
Street and Betty Lane to ensure that pedestrians are visible at night. 
These features would improve multi-modal access to the project site, improve roadway safety, and 
help the City implement features that are consistent with the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan and 2020 
Bicycle Plan.

--- page 448 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 2 
Introduction 
This transportation impact assessment (TIA) reviews transportation conditions at and adjacent to the 
residential project located at 1650 – 1720 South Amphlett Boulevard in the City of San Mateo. The 
topics presented herein are based on the City of San Mateo’s Transportation Impact Analysis (TIA) 
Guidelines (July 2020) and are intended to disclose the local transportation effects of the project for 
compliance with General Plan 2040 Policy C 6.3. These topics include an assessment of intersection 
operations, vehicle miles traveled (VMT), site access and circulation, driveway site distance and 
vehicle queuing, parking, hazards and emergency vehicle access, and neighborhood traffic. 
Study Area 
The project site consists of a 630,313 square foot (14.47 acre) lot on the block bounded by South 
Grant Street to the west, South Amphlett Boulevard to the east, Leslie Creek to the north, and the 
vacant site at 1770 South Amphlett Boulevard to the south, the location of the former San Mateo 
Marriott San Francisco Airport. The existing uses on the project site include a mix of general office, 
commercial, educational, and medical office facilities. Surrounding land uses in the vicinity of the 
project site include single-family residential homes to the west and north of the project site. South of 
the project site, there is a mix of commercial uses, including a grocery store, retail, the Peninsula 
Family YMCA, a dance company, and office uses.  
The study area, as shown in Figure 1, is situated in the Hayward Park neighborhood in San Mateo, 
adjacent to the State Route (SR) 92 and US-101 interchange. A portion of the project site is within 
one-half of a mile of the Hayward Park Caltrain station; however, most of the project including nearly 
all the proposed units would be beyond one-half mile (but within three-quarters of a mile) as a crow-
flies from the center of the Caltrain station. The three study intersections shown on Figure 1 were 
selected based on the following guidance presented in Section 3.1 of the City of San Mateo’s adopted 
TIA Guidelines (August 2020):  
• 
Project Driveways:  
o 
Primary project driveway at South Grant Street and Betty Lane (unsignalized) 
• 
Intersections at either end of the block on which the project is located or up to 500 feet from 
the primary project driveways:  
o 
South Grant Street and Concar Drive (signalized) 
o 
South Grant Street and East 16th Avenue (unsignalized) 
• 
Intersection of collector or higher classified streets where the project adds 100 or more peak 
hour trips:  
o 
Not applicable as the project reduces the number of project trips as shown in Table 3. 
and therefore would not add 100 or more peak hour trips to any other intersections

--- page 449 ---
PARKSIDE
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
SUNNYBRAE
PARK
FIESTA GARDENS
INTERNATIONAL ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
TRINTA PARK
CONNIE PARK
FIESTA
MEADOWS PARK
Fashion Island Boulevard
South Norfolk Street
South Delaware Street
19th Avenue
East 16th Avenue
Afton Court
Charles Lane
Jody Court
Betty Lane
Darwin Avenue
Stanford Avenue
Roberta Drive
Oxford Avenue
Ginniver Street
Dublin Way
Texas Way
South Grant Street
Harrow Avenue
Aberdeen Drive
Pershing Avenue
Magnolia Drive
Queens Avenue
Hancock Avenue
Speers Avenue
Cleveland Avenue
Kehoe Avenue
Harrison Avenue
Hawthorne Drive
Haddon Drive
Fillmore Avenue
Rex Street
Taylor Street
Mc Kinley Street
Pierce Street
Borden Street
Leslie Street
Wellesley Avenue
Fleetwood Drive
Garvey Way
Noe Avenue
Connie Avenue
Adams Street
Birch Avenue
Pacific Boulevard
Concar Drive
Celeste Drive
Vanessa Drive
Joanne Drive
Eleanor Drive
Echo Avenue
Dix Street
Edna Way
Van Buren Street
Cobb Street
Guildford Avenue
Wolfe Drive
Carlisle Drive
Norton Street
Folkstone Avenue
Washington Street
Lodi Avenue
Hamlet Street
South Amphlett Boulevard
Eisenhower Street
Sunnybrae Boulevard
Bermuda Drive
92
101
Caltrain
Hayward Park
Station
3
1
2
G:\GIS\SF\2025_Projects\SF25-1403_Bayshore Commons TIA\BayshoreCommons_Basemap.aprx
Project Location
FIGURE 1
0
500
1,000
Feet
Bayshore Commons Project Site
Study Intersections
Caltrain Hayward Park Station
Caltrain Right of Way
Caltrain Station - 0.5 Mile Radius
#

--- page 450 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 4 
Project Description 
The project site is located at 1650 - 1720 South Amphlett Boulevard between South Grant Street and 
Leslie Creek. Currently, the 14.47-acre site consists of seven three-story office buildings and one 
single-story commercial building. The existing uses on the project site include a mix of general office, 
commercial, educational, and medical facilities. Surrounding land uses in the vicinity of the project 
site include single-family residential homes to the west and north of the project site. South of the 
project site, there is a mix of commercial uses, including a grocery store, retail, the Peninsula Family 
YMCA, a dance company, and office uses. US-101 is located directly east of South Amphlett 
Boulevard. 
The proposed project’s site has a General Plan Designation of Mixed-Use Medium I and a zoning 
designation of E2-1 – Executive Office. The purpose of the E2 Executive Offices District is to create 
and maintain professional and administrative offices. Permitted uses include office, retail, health and 
recreation, public utility and service, research laboratories, restaurants, schools, and warehousing 
uses. Residential uses are also permitted uses and are subject to R3 district “Minimum Development 
Standards”1 and affordable housing requirements.2 
The project proposes demolition of all existing buildings and redevelopment of the site as a 100 
percent residential project. The proposed project includes two types of townhome-style single-family 
attached homes along with single-family detached houses. All buildings will be three stories in height, 
with a maximum height of 38 feet. The project proposes 192 townhomes, with unit sizes ranging from 
two to three bedrooms, and 64 four-bedroom single family detached homes for a total of 256 
residences. The proposed project will have a density of 17.7 dwelling units per acre. The single-family 
detached homes will be located along the west side of the project site adjacent to South Grant Street, 
with the townhomes will be located on the east side of the project site. The project will provide 
inclusionary housing on site in the quantity of 15% at the moderate level of affordability. The project 
will also provide approximately 250,000 square feet of open space, including a park in the center of 
the project site.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 City of San Mateo Municipal Code. Section 27.22.040 Minimum Development Standards. 
https://law.cityofsanmateo.org/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code/27.22.030  
2 City of San Mateo Municipal Code. Chapter 27.29 Residential Overlay District – Mixed Use. 
https://law.cityofsanmateo.org/us/ca/cities/san-mateo/code/27.29

--- page 451 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 5 
Each residence will have a two-car garage, and 51 visitor parking spaces are provided with a 
combined total of 568 parking spaces proposed for the project site. The project will also include 
bicycle parking in accordance with City of San Mateo standards. Access to the project site is 
provided via driveways along South Amphlett Boulevard and South Grant Street.  
The project proposes increased pedestrian access and connectivity through the provision of wider 
sidewalks, a network of internal paseos, as well as increased street trees and landscaping throughout 
the site. The project will provide additional pedestrian access points along South Grant Street and 
South Amphlett Boulevard. Crosswalks in the site will use decorative paving to enhance visibility and 
pedestrian safety.  
The project, which consists of both townhomes and single-family detached homes, is exempt from 
the City/County Association of Governments (C/CAG) Land Use Impact Analysis Program Policy as 
the project will generate fewer than 100 net new vehicle trips. Please see Table 3 in this report for the 
project’s trip generation estimates.3  
 
3 Projects that generate less than 100 net new daily trips are exempt from C/CAG’s TDM Policy.

--- page 452 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 6 
Existing Transportation Conditions 
The existing transportation conditions surrounding the project site relating to the following topics are 
presented below: the roadway network, pedestrian facilities, bicycle facilities, transit service, vehicle 
volumes and lane configurations, and parking conditions.  
Existing Roadway Network 
As shown in Figure 1, the project site is directly bound by South Amphlett Boulevard and South Grant 
Street. US-101 and SR-92 are the two primary regional access routes. The roadways described below 
include local streets that provide direct access to the project site.  
South Grant Street is a two-way north-south street with one travel lane in each direction and parking 
and sidewalks on each side of the street. The roadway is approximately 40 feet wide adjacent to the 
project site, while the sidewalks are approximately six to seven feet wide. To the north of Leslie Creek 
and Haddon Drive, South Grant Street narrows to approximately 30 feet while maintaining parking 
and sidewalks with rolled curbs, which results in vehicles parking partially on the sidewalk. To the 
south of Concar Drive, Grant Street becomes a four-lane street with two lanes in each direction, a 
center-running turn lane or median, a Class II bike lane, and sidewalks.  
South Amphlett Boulevard is a short north-south street with two travel lanes in each direction and a 
sidewalk adjacent to the project site. South Amphlett Boulevard is bounded by Concar Drive and 
Leslie Creek, and spans about 2,000 feet. The street ends at Leslie Creek with a cul-de-sac, 
providing opportunity for vehicles to turn around. The roadway is approximately 48 feet wide with a 
five- to six-foot-wide sidewalk. There is currently no parking allowed on South Amphlett Boulevard.  
Concar Drive is an east-west street with one to three travel lanes in each direction. Between South 
Grant Street and South Amphlett Boulevard, Concar Drive has two travel lanes in each direction with 
eight- to ten-foot sidewalks. Between South Grant Street and South Delaware Street, Concar Drive 
has two travel lanes in each direction, a lane that serves as a turn lane or pedestrian refuge island, 
Class II bike lanes in each direction, and sidewalks. Concar Drive in this segment between South 
Grant and South Delaware Street is approximately 60 feet wide, and the sidewalks range from five- to 
nine-feet wide. From South Delaware Street to Station Park Circle, Concar drive connects with SR-
92’s westbound ramps and the roadway does not include bicycle facilities. From Station Park Circle 
to Pacific Boulevard, Concar Drive connects to the Hayward Park Caltrain station and narrows to a 
two-way street with one travel lane in each direction.   
Existing Pedestrian Facilities  
Sidewalks are provided on both of the streets that directly bound the project site. South Amphlett 
Boulevard has sidewalks on the west side of the street adjacent to the project site, with its sidewalk 
ending on the southern-half portion of the road that borders the former San Mateo Marriott San 
Francisco Airport at 1770 South Amphlett Boulevard, before restarting on Concar Drive. There is one 
intersection directly adjacent to the project site at South Grant Street and Betty Lane. This T-
intersection is unsignalized in the north-south direction on South Grant Street and the eastbound 
direction on Betty Lane is stop controlled. This intersection includes a marked crosswalk along Betty 
Lane, which has curb cuts with truncated domes. Sidewalks adjacent to the project site are generally 
in good condition and are about five to six feet wide.

--- page 453 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 7 
The project’s three study intersections do not have directional curb ramps and the intersection of 
Concar Drive and Grant Street does not have truncated domes. These three study intersections do 
not comply with current ADA standards for accessibility, unless directional curb ramps are technically 
infeasible to install.4  
In the last four years, there have been two pedestrian/vehicle collisions reported at the intersection of 
South Grant Street and Betty Lane as a result of vehicles failing to yield right-of-way to pedestrians at 
the intersection.5 The City has recently installed speed cushions on South Grand Street, on the 
northern and southern legs of the intersection, to address vehicle speed issues. There were not 
collisions reported at study intersections on South Grant Street at 16th Avenue and Concar Drive, 
although both 16th Avenue and Concar Drive have one reported collision within half a mile of the 
project site.  
Existing Bicycle Facilities 
Bikeway planning and design in California typically relies on guidelines and design standards 
established by California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) in the Highway Design Manual 
(Chapter 1000: Bikeway Planning and Design). The Caltrans guidelines cover four primary types of 
bikeway facilities: Class I, Class II, Class III, and Class IV. These facility types are described below. 
• 
Class I Bikeway (Bike Path) provides a completely separate right-of-way, is designated for the 
exclusive use of bicycles and pedestrians and minimizes vehicle and pedestrian crossflow. In 
general, bike paths serve corridors that are not served by existing streets and highways, or where 
sufficient right-of-way exists for such facilities to be constructed. 
 
• 
Class II Bikeways (Bike Lanes) are lanes for bicyclists generally adjacent to the outer vehicle 
travel lanes. These lanes have special lane markings, pavement legends, and signage. Bicycle 
 
4 As noted in section R203.6.1.1 of the Accessibility Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way 
Crosswalks (September 2023), one curb ramp shall be provided for each crosswalk (e.g., a curb ramp that aligns 
with the crosswalks as a “directional curb ramp”. Accessible at https://www.access-
board.gov/prowag/scoping.html#r203611-crosswalks-at-an-intersection.   
5 City of San Mateo Collision Data, 2025, 
https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/8a9f7321d1ce46ffbc0e1f04757efb5f/page/Maps/?data_id=dataSourc
e_8-Traffic_Data_Public_6061_807%3A72208&views=Pedestrian-Collisions

--- page 454 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 8 
lanes are generally five feet wide. Adjacent vehicle parking and vehicle/pedestrian cross-flow are 
permitted. Note that when grade separation or buffers are constructed between the bicycle and 
vehicle lanes, these facilities are classified as Class IV Separated Bikeways.  
 
• 
Class III Bikeway (Bicycle Routes/Bicycle Boulevards) are designated by signs or pavement 
markings for shared use with pedestrians or motor vehicles but have no separated bicycle right-
of-way or lane striping. Bicycle routes serve either to a) provide continuity to other bicycle 
facilities, or b) designate preferred routes through high demand corridors. Bicycle routes are 
implemented on low-speed (less than 25 mph) and low-volume (less than 3,000 vehicles/day) 
streets. The San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan also designates a special subset of Bicycle Routes 
which include traffic calming treatments as Bicycle Boulevards.  
 
 
• 
Class IV Bikeway (Cycle Tracks/Protected Bike Lanes) provide a right-of-way designated 
exclusively for bicycle travel within a roadway and which are protected from other vehicle traffic 
with devices, including, but not limited to, grade separation, flexible posts, inflexible physical 
barriers, or parked cars.

--- page 455 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 9 
 
 
 
Existing bicycle facilities near the project site include Class II bicycle lanes on Grant Street south of 
Concar Drive, Class II bicycle lanes on Concar Drive from South Grant Street to South Delaware 
Street, and Class II bicycle lanes on South Delaware north of Charles Lane/Station Park Circle.  
As shown in Figure 3.7 of the 2020 San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan6, South Grant Street, Concar Drive, 
and East 16th Avenue are identified as high “Level of Traffic Stress” (LTS) roadways.7 LTS measures 
bicycling comfort based on roadway characteristics. Low stress bikeways are comfortable for 
everyone to ride on, including people who would be categorized as “interested but concerned”. In 
contrast, high stress bikeways are only tolerated by a few: primarily those who could be described as 
“strong and fearless” – those comfortable riding under any conditions (about 7% of the population). 
Class II and Class III bicycle facilities on roadways with multiple lanes of vehicle traffic and speed 
limits above 25 miles per hour would be categorized as high stress bikeways.  
The City of San Mateo, through the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, has proposed to add a Class III bicycle 
boulevard on South Grant Street from Concar Drive to 9th Avenue and on nearby streets like East 16th 
Avenue west of South Delaware Street, Sunnybrae Boulevard, and Bermuda Drive. The plan proposes 
shared use paths on Concar Drive from South Delaware Street to the Hayward Park Caltrain Station 
and through the Caltrain parking lot to connect to East 16th Avenue. The plan includes Class IV 
separated bike lanes on Grant Street from Concar Drive to Bermuda Drive, on Concar Drive from 
South Grant Street to South Delaware Street, and on South Delaware Street from Concar Drive to East 
28th Avenue. The city has also proposed a buffered bicycle lane on South Delaware Street from East 
5th Avenue to Concar Drive.  
The City of San Mateo is currently undergoing a project, the Delaware Street Safe Routes to School 
Corridor Bicycle Improvements Project, that intends to implement proposed upgrades on existing 
Class II and Class III facilities on South Delaware Street between 19th Avenue and Pacific Boulevard 
including Class IV separated bikeways from 19th Avenue to 28th Avenue, bicycle boulevard 
treatments from 28th Avenue to Pacific Boulevard, upgraded pedestrian facilities, and improved 
connections to existing bike facilities.  
 
 
6   San Mateo Bicycle Master Plan, City of San Mateo & Toole Design, 2020, p 28. 
7   The LTS Methodology was developed by Mekuria, Furth, and Nixon in Low Stress Bicycling and Network 
Connectivity (2012).

--- page 456 ---
Fashion Island Boulevard
South Norfolk Street
Bayshore Freeway
19th Avenue
J Arthur Younger Freeway
East 16th Avenue
Jody Court
Betty Lane
Ginniver Street
Texas Way
South Grant Street
South Delaware Street
Pershing Avenue
Queens Avenue
Cleveland Avenue
Harrison Avenue
Haddon Drive
Fillmore Avenue
Rex Street
Taylor Street
Mc Kinley Street
Pierce Street
Borden Street
Leslie Street
Wellesley Avenue
Fleetwood Drive
Garvey Way
Noe Avenue
Connie Avenue
Adams Street
Birch Avenue
Pacific Boulevard
Concar Drive
Celeste Drive
Vanessa Drive
Joanne Drive
Eleanor Drive
Dix Street
Edna Way
Van Buren Street
Cobb Street
Guildford Avenue
Wolfe Drive
Carlisle Drive
Norton Street
Folkstone Avenue
Washington Street
Lodi Avenue
Hamlet Street
South Amphlett Boulevard
Eisenhower Street
Sunnybrae Boulevard
Bermuda Drive
Existing Bicycle Facilities
FIGURE 2
0
500
1,000
Feet
Bayshore Commons Project Site
Existing Bicycle Facilities
Bike Lane
Bike Route
Shared Use Path
Bike Boulevard

--- page 457 ---
Fashion Island Boulevard
South Norfolk Street
Bayshore Freeway
19th Avenue
J Arthur Younger Freeway
East 16th Avenue
Jody Court
Betty Lane
Ginniver Street
Texas Way
South Grant Street
South Delaware Street
Pershing Avenue
Queens Avenue
Cleveland Avenue
Harrison Avenue
Haddon Drive
Fillmore Avenue
Rex Street
Taylor Street
Mc Kinley Street
Pierce Street
Borden Street
Leslie Street
Wellesley Avenue
Fleetwood Drive
Garvey Way
Noe Avenue
Connie Avenue
Adams Street
Birch Avenue
Pacific Boulevard
Concar Drive
Celeste Drive
Vanessa Drive
Joanne Drive
Eleanor Drive
Dix Street
Edna Way
Van Buren Street
Cobb Street
Guildford Avenue
Wolfe Drive
Carlisle Drive
Norton Street
Folkstone Avenue
Washington Street
Lodi Avenue
Hamlet Street
South Amphlett Boulevard
Eisenhower Street
Sunnybrae Boulevard
Bermuda Drive
Proposed Bicycle Facilities
FIGURE 3
0
500
1,000
Feet
Bayshore Commons Project Site
Proposed Bicycle Facilities
Bike Boulevard
Bike Lane
Buffered Bike Lane
Seperated Bike Lane
Shared Use Path

--- page 458 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 12 
Existing Transit Service 
Table 1 and Figure 4 present the existing transit service providers and routes that provide service 
near the project site. SamTrans is the primary regional and local transit provider within San Mateo 
County, serving all Caltrain regional rail stations within the county and major transit transfer points for 
Santa Clara, Alameda, and San Francisco counties. The schedule information below reflects July 2025 
timetables. 
Table 1: Existing Transit Service 
Route 
Weekday 
Peak 
Headway 
(minutes) 
Weekend 
Peak 
Headway 
(minutes) 
Hours of 
Operation 
Closest 
Stop(s) to 
Project Site 
Key Destinations 
Served by Route 
SamTrans 
292 
20-30 
30 
Weekdays 
and 
Weekends: 
3:55 AM – 
2:45 AM 
S Delaware 
St & Charles 
Ln;  
S Delaware 
St & 16th 
Ave 
Downtown San 
Francisco, SFO, all 
Caltrain stations in the 
city of San Mateo, 
Hillsdale Mall 
SamTrans 
53/53P 
- 
- 
School Drop 
Off/Pick Up 
Hours Only  
Delaware & 
16th; 
Delaware & 
Charles; 
Grant & 
Concar 
Peninsula/Humboldt, 
Borel Middle School 
Caltrain 
30 
30 
Weekdays: 
5:30 AM – 
12:17 AM; 
Weekends: 
7:43 AM – 
12:17 AM 
Hayward 
Park Station 
San Francisco, San Jose 
Note: Transit service is representative of July 2025 operations. 
Source: SamTrans, Caltrain, and Fehr & Peers, 2025 
The nearest Caltrain station is Hayward Park Station, which is located on Concar Drive, to the west of 
South Delaware Street, and is between 0.5 and 0.75 miles west of the proposed homes in the project 
site. Caltrain runs through the length of the Peninsula and provides regional rail service, connecting 
San Mateo with destinations in San Jose and San Francisco. Caltrain also offers connections with the 
Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system at Millbrae Station, which provides service to the East Bay via 
San Francisco.  
People walking between the project site and the Caltrain Hayward Park station could use South Grant 
Street and Concar Drive to access the station. Sidewalks, crosswalks, and street trees are provided 
along this walking route, and there are signalized pedestrian crossings at South Delaware Street and 
two rectangular rapid flashing beacons along Concar Drive. Existing land uses to the north and west 
of Concar Drive are primarily residential, while land uses south of Concar Drive are primarily 
commercial. Sidewalks along this path are generally in good condition and range between five and 
fourteen feet wide. All intersections along the walk from the project site to the Hayward Park Caltrain

--- page 459 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 13 
station have curb ramps, although truncated domes and directional curb ramps are only seen directly 
adjacent to new housing developments just east of the Caltrain station.  
There are two SamTrans routes that provide access to the Project Site, with stops along South 
Delaware Street and Grant Street. Closest to the site, SamTrans Route 53/53P has a midblock stop on 
Grant St between Concar Drive and SR-92 that includes a standard pole and sign. On South Delaware 
Street, SamTrans Route 292 and SamTrans Route 53/53P share stops at Charles Lane/Station Park 
Circle and East 16th Avenue. The northbound stop at Delaware Street and Charles Lane has an 
unsheltered bench and trash can. The northbound and southbound stops at East 16th Avenue and 
South Delaware Street as well as the southbound stop at Charles Lane/Station Park Circle and South 
Delaware Street have a standard pole and sign.

--- page 460 ---
PARKSIDE
ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
Fashion Island Boulevard
South Norfolk Street
Bayshore Freeway
19th Avenue
J Arthur Younger Freeway
East 16th Avenue
Afton Court
Charles Lane
Jody Court
Betty Lane
Darwin Avenue
Stanford Avenue
Roberta Drive
Oxford Avenue
Ginniver Street
Dublin Way
Texas Way
South Grant Street
South Delaware Street
Harrow Avenue
Aberdeen Drive
Pershing Avenue
Magnolia Drive
Queens Avenue
Hancock Avenue
Speers Avenue
Cleveland Avenue
Kehoe Avenue
Harrison Avenue
Hawthorne Drive
Haddon Drive
Fillmore Avenue
Rex Street
Taylor Street
Mc Kinley Street
Pierce Street
Borden Street
Leslie Street
Wellesley Avenue
Fleetwood Drive
Garvey Way
Noe Avenue
Connie Avenue
Adams Street
Birch Avenue
Concar Drive
Celeste Drive
Vanessa Drive
Joanne Drive
Eleanor Drive
Echo Avenue
Dix Street
Edna Way
Van Buren Street
Cobb Street
Guildford Avenue
Wolfe Drive
Carlisle Drive
Norton Street
Folkstone Avenue
Washington Street
Lodi Avenue
Hamlet Street
South Amphlett Boulevard
Eisenhower Street
Sunnybrae Boulevard
Bermuda Drive
Caltrain
Hayward Park
Station
G:\GIS\SF\2025_Projects\SF25-1403_Bayshore Commons TIA\BayshoreCommons_Basemap.aprx
Transit Routes
FIGURE 4
0
500
1,000
Feet
Bayshore Commons Project Site
Caltrain Hayward Park Station
Caltrain Right of Way
SamTrans Stops
SamTrans Route 292
SamTrans Route 53
SamTrans Route 251
SamTrans Route 250
SamTrans Route 50
SamTrans Route EPX
FIESTA GARDENS
INTERNATIONAL
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

--- page 461 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 15 
Existing Vehicle Volumes, Speeds, and Lane 
Configurations 
Intersection turning movement counts were collected on Wednesday April 30th, 2025 for both the AM 
peak period (7:00-9:00 AM) and PM peak period (4:00-6:00 PM). Three locations were identified as 
study intersections within the project vicinity: 
• 
South Grant Street and Betty Lane (unsignalized) 
• 
South Grant Street and Concar Drive (signalized) 
• 
South Grant Street and East 16th Avenue (unsignalized) 
These counts include the number of automobiles, cyclists, and pedestrians at each of the three study 
intersections. The existing lane configuration and traffic volumes for each study intersection are 
shown in Figure 5Figure 5. In addition to these turning movement counts, 24-hour vehicle and speed 
counts were collected on each of the three streets adjacent to the project site: South Grant Street, 
South Amphlett Boulevard, and Concar Drive. The volumes and speeds by direction for these three 
count locations are presented in Table 2 and are included in Appendix A. Since this speed data was 
collected, the City installed speed cushions on South Grand Street, on the northern and southern legs 
of the intersection, to reduce vehicle speeds. 
Table 2: Existing Roadway 24-Hour Vehicle Counts and Speeds 
Location  
24 Hour Traffic Volume 
Vehicle Speeds 
Grant Street 
• 
Northbound: 1,840 vehicles 
• 
Southbound: 1,898 vehicles 
• 
Total: 3,738 vehicles 
• 
Northbound Speed (median): 
27.9 MPH 
• 
Northbound Speed (average): 
27.8 MPH 
• 
Southbound Speed (median): 
27.0 MPH 
• 
Southbound Speed (average): 
26.8 MPH 
Amphlett 
Boulevard 
• 
Northbound: 639 vehicles 
• 
Southbound: 662 vehicles 
• 
Total: 1,301 vehicles 
• 
Northbound Speed (median): 
33.3 MPH 
• 
Northbound Speed (average): 
33.4 MPH 
• 
Southbound Speed (median): 
31.3 MPH 
• 
Southbound Speed (average): 
31.7 MPH 
Concar Drive 
• 
Eastbound: 1,024 vehicles 
• 
Westbound: 1,038 vehicles 
• 
Total: 2,062 vehicles 
• 
Eastbound Speed (median):   
29.2 MPH 
• 
Eastbound Speed (average): 
28.6 MPH 
• 
Westbound Speed (median):  
27.1 MPH 
• 
Westbound Speed (average): 
26.8 MPH 
Source: Fehr & Peers, Idax, 2025.

--- page 462 ---
Existing Vehicle Volumes
Intersection Trafﬁc Volumes, Lane Conﬁgurations, and Trafﬁc Controls
FIGURE 5
#
XX(YY)    AM(PM) Project Trip Volumes
Project Site
Study Intersections
Signalized Intersection
STOP
Stop Sign
SCHOOL
ELEMENTARY
PARKSIDE
PARK
SUNNYBRAE
SCHOOL
INTERNATIONAL ELEMENTARY
FIESTA GARDENS
TRINTA PARK
CONNIE PARK
MEADOWS PARK
FIESTA
Fashion Island Boulevard
South Norfolk Street
South Delaware Street
19th Avenue
East 16th Avenue
Afton Court
Charles Lane
Jody Court
Betty Lane
Darwin Avenue
Stanford Avenue
Roberta Drive
Oxford Avenue
Ginniver Street
Dublin Way
Texas Way
South Grant Street
Harrow Avenue
Aberdeen Drive
Pershing Avenue
Magnolia Drive
Queens Avenue
Hancock Avenue
Speers Avenue
Cleveland Avenue
Kehoe Avenue
Harrison Avenue
Hawthorne Drive
Haddon Drive
Fillmore Avenue
Rex Street
Taylor Street
Mc Kinley Street
Pierce Street
Borden Street
Leslie Street
Wellesley Avenue
Fleetwood Drive
Garvey Way
Noe Avenue
Connie Avenue
Adams Street
Birch Avenue
Concar Drive
Celeste Drive
Vanessa Drive
Joanne Drive
Eleanor Drive
Echo Avenue
Dix Street
Edna Way
Van Buren Street
Cobb Street
Guildford Avenue
Wolfe Drive
Carlisle Drive
Norton Street
Folkstone Avenue
Washington Street
Lodi Avenue
Hamlet Street
South Amphlett Boulevard
Eisenhower Street
Sunnybrae Boulevard
Bermuda Drive
92
101
S ta ti on
H aywa rd  Pa r k
Ca l tr a i n
3
1
2
G:\GIS\SF\2025_Projects\SF25-1403_Bayshore Commons TIA\BayshoreCommons_Basemap.aprx
0
500
1,000
Feet
20 (24)
143 (157)
7 (6)
7 (7)
4 (7)
29 (35)
25 (17)
146 (170)
1 (0)
1 (0)
11 (8)
6 (7)
3. S Grant St/E 16th Ave
19 (25)
139 (183)
20 (5)
35 (25)
9 (13)
187 (198)
1. S Grant St/Betty Ln
314 (194)
124 (139)
89 (15)
38 (81)
90 (26)
77 (153)
42 (24)
177 (181)
3 (8)
2 (10)
22 (87)
15 (68)
2. Concar Dr/S Grant St
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
Betty Ln
S Grant St
S Grant St
Concar Dr
STOP
D
D
D
D
B
G
E
ACF
ACE
AE
ACE
STOP

--- page 463 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 17 
Existing Parking Conditions 
There is unmetered on-street parking along South Grant Street and East 16th Avenue. Adjacent to the 
project site, South Amphlett Boulevard, Concar Drive, and South Delaware Street do not provide any 
on-street parking. There are approximately 35 unmarked parking spaces on South Grant Street. North 
of the project site, South Grant Street and many of the smaller residential streets have mountable 
sidewalks to accommodate vehicle parking on the narrower local streets, many of which are two-lane 
roadways with an approximate 30-foot total roadway width. 
The streets adjacent to the project site, that allow for street parking, have the following parking 
restrictions: 
• 
South Grant Street: No parking 1st and 3rd Friday from 6:00AM to 8:00AM for street cleaning 
• 
East 16th Avenue: No restrictions

--- page 464 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 18 
Project Conditions 
The project proposes 192 townhomes and 64 single family detached homes. This section presents 
the traffic conditions with the project, including VMT, while site access and circulation issues and 
other related topics are evaluated within the Additional Transportation Analysis sections. 
Project Trip Generation 
Vehicle trip estimates for the project were developed by applying the national trip generation rates 
included in the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual 11th Edition to the 
proposed project’s two land uses: “Single-Family Detached Housing (210)” for the single family 
detached homes and “Single-Family Attached Housing/Townhome (215)” for the project’s 
townhomes.  
The vehicle trips from the project site’s existing office use were also calculated using ITE 11th Edition 
rates. These trips, which are used as an existing use credit, assume full occupancy of the existing 
office building, despite the site having some vacant space at the time the study was conducted. Full 
occupancy of the project site could happen without any further discretionary actions from the City of 
San Mateo and therefore this comparison provides a realistic assessment of how the project would 
change conditions compared to the existing land uses.  
The trips from this existing use credit are subtracted from the proposed project’s trip generation 
estimates. As shown in Table 3, the proposed project would result in a net reduction of 1,700 daily 
trips, including a reduction of 380 trips in the AM peak hour (-415 inbound and 35 outbound), and a 
reduction of 320 vehicle trips in the PM peak hour (17 inbound and -338 outbound).

--- page 465 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 19 
Table 3: Project Vehicle Trip Generation 
Land Use 
ITE LU 
Code 
Quantity 
Units¹ 
Daily 
Total 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
Proposed project 
Single-Family 
Detached Housing 
210 
64 
DU 
604 
12 
33 
45 
38 
22 
60 
Single-Family Attached 
Housing/Townhome 
215 
192 
DU 
1,382 
29 
64 
92 
62 
47 
109 
Proposed Project 
Subtotal 
 
 
 
1,986 
40 
97 
137 
100 
69 
170 
Existing Uses2 
General Office Building 
710 
340 
KSF 
3,686 
455 
62 
517 
83 
407 
490 
Existing Uses Subtotal 
 
 
 
3,686 
455 
62 
517 
83 
407 
490 
Net new trips 
(Proposed project 
minus existing) 
 
 
 
-1,700 -415 
35 
-380 
17 
-338 
-320 
Notes:  
1. 
DU = dwelling unit, KSF = 1,000 square feet 
2. 
The existing use credit in this table use ITE 11th edition rates to estimate the number of daily and peak 
hour trips generated by the site’s existing office land use and assumes full occupancy of the site’s 
offices. Vehicle trip counts were also collected at the project site’s driveways, and a comparison 
between these ITE rates and those driveway counts is provided in Appendix B.  
Sources: Fehr & Peers; ITE Trip Generation Manual, 11th Edition, 2025 
Trip Distribution 
The trips generated by the project were distributed through the TIA’s three study intersections based 
on existing travel patterns on the surrounding roadway system, the locations of nearby 
complementary land uses, and a review of the distribution of trips for other recently completed TIA 
reports in the area. The peak-hour trips generated by the site’s existing and proposed uses were 
assigned to the roadway network based on trip origins and destinations, roadway lane configurations, 
and the location of freeway on/off ramps.  
For the proposed project, approximately 90 percent of trips would travel to and from the project site 
via SR-92 and the adjacent commercial developments that border Concar Drive to the south, and 
about 10 percent of trips would head north, via Grant Street, to access Downtown San Mateo. In total, 
for outbound travel, 67.5 percent of project traffic would head west on Concar Drive, 22.5 percent of 
project traffic would go south on Grant Street, and 10 percent of traffic would go north on Grant 
Street.  
Of the southbound trips, the analysis in this TIA report assumed that half of project vehicles would 
use the driveways along Grant Steet and the other half would use the driveways on Amphlett 
Boulevard. Project trips are unlike to drive through the project site unless necessary, due to the site’s 
slower speed internal roadways, and they will use the nearest driveway to their residence to enter the 
City’s roadway network. Amphlett Boulevard does not continue northbound beyond the project site, 
so all northbound trips from the project are assumed to use the driveways along Grant Street.

--- page 466 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 20 
Beyond the project’s study intersections, the TIA also considered traffic on 19th Avenue, which is to 
the south of the project site and is of interest by the City due to reported traffic conditions on that 
roadway. The proposed project’s distributed and assigned net trips would lower traffic volumes on 
19th Avenue, including a reduction of 86 trips during the AM peak hour and a reduction of 76 trips PM 
peak hour. Further detail on these 19th Avenue trips is shown in Table 4 in the next section of this TIA 
report.  
Intersection Operations 
Fehr & Peers assessed intersection operations and traffic conditions in the area but did not conduct 
new level of service (LOS) analyses because, as shown in Table 3, the proposed project would result 
in a substantial decrease in vehicle trips., Fehr & Peers reviewed the directionality of these trips to 
determine whether the shift from office to residential could worsen traffic operations at the project’s 
closest intersection: Concar Drive and South Grant Street. This qualitative approach focuses on this 
signalized intersection as it provides the project site’s primary access point to regional destinations 
via SR-92 and US-101.  
To conduct this assessment, Fehr & Peers use the TIA’s trip distribution to assign the project’s net 
trip generation estimates to Concar Drive and South Grant Street. This trip distribution accounts for 
the change in directional traffic flow for office versus residential land use, with office trips mostly 
being inbound during the AM peak hour and outbound during the PM peak hour, and residential trips 
having the reverse traffic flow, with people leaving their homes in the morning and returning at night.  
Table 4: Net Project Trips at Concar Dr/S Grant Street by Peak Hour 
Period 
Eastbound  
(Concar Drive) 
Westbound 
(Concar Drive) 
Northbound    
(Grant St) 
Southbound     
(Grant St) 
Total 
LT1 
TH1 
RT1 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
LT 
TH 
RT 
AM 
Peak 
-140 -140 
0 
4 
12 
0 
0 
-47 -47 
0 
4 
12 
-342 
PM 
Peak 
6 
6 
0 
-38 
-114 
0 
0 
2 
2 
0 
-38 -114 
-288 
Notes:  
1. 
LT = Left Turn, TH = Through, RT = Right Turn 
2. 
Underlined trips are vehicles that use 19th Avenue before or after this intersection 
Sources: Fehr & Peers; Idax, 2025.

--- page 467 ---
SCHOOL
ELEMENTARY
PARKSIDE
PARK
SUNNYBRAE
SCHOOL
INTERNATIONAL ELEMENTARY
FIESTA GARDENS
TRINTA PARK
CONNIE PARK
MEADOWS PARK
FIESTA
Fashion Island Boulevard
South Norfolk Street
South Delaware Street
19th Avenue
East 16th Avenue
Afton Court
Charles Lane
Jody Court
Betty Lane
Darwin Avenue
Stanford Avenue
Roberta Drive
Oxford Avenue
Ginniver Street
Dublin Way
Texas Way
South Grant Street
Harrow Avenue
Aberdeen Drive
Pershing Avenue
Magnolia Drive
Queens Avenue
Hancock Avenue
Speers Avenue
Cleveland Avenue
Kehoe Avenue
Harrison Avenue
Hawthorne Drive
Haddon Drive
Fillmore Avenue
Rex Street
Taylor Street
Mc Kinley Street
Pierce Street
Borden Street
Leslie Street
Wellesley Avenue
Fleetwood Drive
Garvey Way
Noe Avenue
Connie Avenue
Adams Street
Birch Avenue
Concar Drive
Celeste Drive
Vanessa Drive
Joanne Drive
Eleanor Drive
Echo Avenue
Dix Street
Edna Way
Van Buren Street
Cobb Street
Guildford Avenue
Wolfe Drive
Carlisle Drive
Norton Street
Folkstone Avenue
Washington Street
Lodi Avenue
Hamlet Street
South Amphlett Boulevard
Eisenhower Street
Sunnybrae Boulevard
Bermuda Drive
92
101
S ta ti on
H aywa rd  Pa rk
Ca l tr a i n
G:\GIS\SF\2025_Projects\SF25-1403_Bayshore Commons TIA\BayshoreCommons_Basemap.aprx
Trip Distribution and Assignment
FIGURE 6
0
500
1,000
Feet
Bayshore Commons Project Site
Caltrain Hayward Park Station
Caltrain Right of Way
67.5%
10%
22.5%

--- page 468 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 22 
Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT) 
VMT is a measurement of the distance and amount that people drive, and it is calculated by 
multiplying the number of trips generated by a project by the total distance of each of those trips. 
Many factors affect the amount and distance a person might drive. The density and mix of uses of the 
surrounding built environment is the most important factor in the amount of VMT generated per 
person, as density and accessibility affect how many places a person can access within a given 
distance, time, and cost, using different means of travel (e.g., private vehicle, public transit, bicycling, 
walking, etc.).  
Typically, lower density development provides fewer destinations in the immediate vicinity of a 
project and therefore offers fewer transportation options than a location with high density, mix of land 
uses, and numerous ways of travel. Therefore, low-density development typically generates more 
VMT on a per capita basis when compared to a similarly sized development located in urban areas.8 
In general, higher VMT areas are associated with more air pollution, including greenhouse gas 
emissions, than lower VMT areas. 
The proposed project qualifies for the infill housing exemption under California Assembly Bill (AB) 
130, which exempts certain residential projects from VMT analysis under CEQA. The project meets 
the criteria of AB 130 as an infill development located in an urbanized area, consistent with the 
general plan and surrounded by existing development. Given this statutory exemption, quantitative 
VMT modeling is not required and a VMT model run was not conducted for this project.  However, a 
qualitative assessment of the characteristics of the project and surrounding land uses indicates that 
the proposed development is unlikely to result in substantial increases in VMT.  
The project introduces residential uses at an incrementally higher density than the existing 
surrounding community, supporting a more compact and efficient land use pattern for future 
residents. The site is also well-positioned in terms of multimodal access, as it is located within 
walking distance of the Hayward Park Caltrain Station, providing access to regional rail service as well 
as SamTrans bus services. The surrounding area includes a diverse range of walkable amenities, 
particularly to the south and west of the site. Nearby destinations include grocery stores, restaurants, 
a convenience store, business parks, and larger retail centers such as department stores, all within a 
reasonable walking or biking distance. These amenities reduce the need for long vehicle trips for daily 
errands. Within the project itself, the site includes a centrally located park, offering on-site 
recreational space. Planned bicycle facilities surrounding the project site will further enhance access 
by active transportation modes and create more opportunities for residents to connect to nearby 
destinations without driving.  
 
 
8 Handbook for Analyzing Greenhouse Gas Emission Reductions, Assessing Climate Vulnerabilities, and 
Advancing Health and Equity. California Air Pollution Control Officers Association (CAPCOA). Measure T-1: 
Increase Residential Density. Pg 70. 
https://www.airquality.org/ClimateChange/Documents/Handbook%20Public%20Draft_2021-Aug.pdf

--- page 469 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 23 
Additional Transportation Analysis 
This section presents an analysis of other transportation considerations that were assessed for the 
proposed project, including the following:  
• 
Impacts to vehicle, pedestrian & bicycle site access  
• 
Parking 
• 
Hazards and emergency vehicle access 
• 
Neighborhood traffic 
The analysis in this section was conducted in accordance with the City of San Mateo’s General Plan 
Circulation Element. This is outlined in the TIA guidelines, which require that a non-CEQA local 
transportation analysis is conducted for land use projects that may impact the local street system. 
The analysis in this section is based on professional judgment in accordance with the standards and 
methods employed by traffic engineering professionals.    
Vehicle Site Access and Circulation 
The proposed project would provide automobile parking via two-car garages that will be included as 
a part of every home in the project site. The residents’ parking stalls in these private garages provide 
a total of 512 parking spaces. The project would also provide a total of 56 uncovered visitor parking 
spaces at various locations in the project site, which includes four accessible spaces.    
The project would also include 384 long-term bicycle parking spaces and 30 short-term bicycle 
parking spaces. The long-term bicycle spaces would be provided in each home’s two-car garage. 
The short-term bicycle parking will be distributed throughout the site near the visitor vehicle parking 
stalls.  
As shown in Table 3, the proposed project will result in net reduction of 1,700 daily trips, including a 
reduction of 380 trips in the AM peak hour (-415 inbound and 35 outbound) and a reduction of 320 
trips in the PM peak hour (17 inbound and -338 outbound). As summarized in the sections above, the 
addition of the proposed project trips would not result in any adverse effects on traffic operations at 
the project’s study locations.  
Driveway Sight Distance 
A preliminary site distance assessment was conducted for vehicles turning from the driveways on 
South Grant Street. The roadway is free from visual obstructions, other than on-street parking. The 
California Highway Design Manual (HDM) states that corner distance requirements should not be 
applied to urban driveways unless they are signalized. Per California Assembly Bill 413 (effective 
January 1, 2025), vehicles will no longer be allowed to park within 20 feet of marked or unmarked 
crosswalks, or 15 feet if curb extensions are present. The City of San Mateo is actively implementing 
this regulation by installing new red curb markings in compliance with AB 413.9  
 
9 AB 413 – Daylighting Law, City of San Mateo. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4844/AB-413---Daylighting-Law

--- page 470 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 24 
Loading and Curbside Management 
All loading and curbside activities associated with the proposed project including deliveries, 
passenger pick-up/drop-off, and residential moving are expected to occur on site, within the 
project’s internal roadway network. Trash collection will occur directly at each home’s driveway, 
consistent with standard residential service. The internal roadways are designed to be sufficiently 
wide to accommodate service vehicles, including trash collection trucks and moving vans, without 
requiring use of public curbside areas. As a result, no new loading activity is anticipated on adjacent 
public streets, and no curbside management measures are proposed along existing City roadways. 
Pedestrian & Bicycle Site Access and Circulation 
Pedestrian Access 
The proposed project includes multiple pedestrian entrances along South Grant Street and along 
South Amphlett Boulevard. Pedestrian circulation throughout the site is provided via shared paseos 
and sidewalks.  
On the frontage of the project site, the intersection of South Grant Street and Betty Lane is stop-
controlled in the eastbound direction and has marked crosswalks across Betty Lane. This crosswalk 
across Betty Lane has curb ramps and truncated domes on both legs of the marked crosswalk. There 
is not currently a marked crosswalk across Grant Street.  
Surrounding the project site, the intersection at South Grant Street and East 16th Avenue is stop-
controlled with marked crosswalks on all four legs. Curb ramps are present at all four legs of the 
intersection, and truncated domes are present at three of the four intersection corners. The southeast 
corner does not have truncated domes, and none of the corners of the intersection have directional 
curb ramps.  
Just to the south of this intersection, there is a three-way T-intersection at South Grant Street and 
Haddon Drive. This intersection is uncontrolled, does not have marked crosswalks, and has curb 
ramps to facilitate crossing Haddon Drive. The east side of the intersection has truncated domes, but 
the west side of the intersection only has a curb ramp. Neither leg of the crosswalk has directional 
curb ramps. The intersection at South Grant Street and Concar Drive is already signalized. Curb 
ramps are present at all four corners of the intersection, but none of them have truncated domes and 
they are not directional. There are no marked crosswalks across South Grant Street for over 2,000 
feet between East 16th Avenue and Concar Drive.  
Despite these missing features, the vicinity of the project site has good pedestrian access, and there 
is consistent sidewalk coverage and crossing infrastructure between the project site, the Hayward 
Park Caltrain Station, and other nearby destinations.  
Recommendations 
Fehr & Peers recommends the project include pedestrian facilities from Table 5 to be consistent with 
the City of San Mateo’s Pedestrian Design Guidelines. The lack of marked crosswalks for 2,000 feet 
provides a substantial gap for pedestrian circulation along South Grant Street. The streets adjacent to 
the project site will be important pedestrian access routes, connecting people to nearby commercial 
amenities, the Hayward Park Caltrain station, and SamTrans bus routes. Table 5 assesses whether the

--- page 471 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 25 
intersection of South Grant Street and Betty Lane, which fronts the project site, is consistent with the 
guidelines and provides recommendations to enhance pedestrian comfort and safety. 
Per General Plan Policy C3.2 of the City’s General Plan Circulation Element, the City requires “new 
development projects to provide sidewalks and pedestrian ramps and to repair or replace damaged 
sidewalks.”10 The proposed project should include directional curb ramps at the intersection of South 
Grant Street and Betty Lane to be consistent with ADA design standards.11  
As shown in Table 5, Fehr & Peers recommends that the project add advance stop bars, curb 
extensions and marked crosswalks at intersection of South Grant Street and Betty Lane. These curb 
extensions should be added to all four corners of the intersection and should extend into South Grant 
Avenue. These improvements would enhance pedestrian visibility, slow vehicle speeds, and provide a 
safer place to cross the street, and they align with the priority corridor recommendations included in 
City’s Draft Complete Streets Plan.12 
Additionally, due to this intersection’s collision history, the project should add Rectangular Rapid 
Flashing Beacons (RRFB) on both crosswalks that cross South Grant Street. RRFB’s are amber 
flashing lights that can improve driver yielding behavior at unsignalized intersections. These RRFBs, 
which are typically solar powered, are activated with a push button and they are best used on streets 
with speeds under 35 mph.13 South Grant Street has a posted speed limit of 25 mph, and as shown in 
Appendix A, the roadway has an average daily traffic volume of 3,738 vehicles per day.  
The intersection appears to have adequate sight distance with its existing configuration, as the 
roadway is not on a hill, does not have blind curves, and does not have large trees in the area. The 
project sponsor should verify this sight distance during the design process for this intersection’s 
recommended curb extensions, as the specific location of the curb is necessary for a detailed sight 
distance evaluation. Additionally, the single light on the northeast corner of the intersection may not 
provide sufficient lighting for the entire intersection, and the applicant should install industry standard 
crosswalk lighting to maintain visibility at night.  
Fehr & Peers does not recommend installing all-way stop control at this intersection, as South Grant 
Street is a planned Class III Bike Boulevard in the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan. This intersection, with the 
 
10 Strive San Mateo: General Plan 2040. Chapter 3: Circulation Element. City of San Mateo. 
https://strivesanmateo.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/Circulation-Element_03-18-24.pdf  
11 As noted in section R203.6.1.1 of the Accessibility Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way 
Crosswalks (September 2023), “At an intersection corner, one curb ramp or blended transition shall be provided 
for each crosswalk, or a single blended transition that spans all crosswalks at the intersection corner may be 
provided. Where pedestrian crossing is prohibited, curb ramps or blended transitions shall not be provided, and 
the pedestrian circulation path shall be either (a) separated from the roadway with landscaping or other non-
prepared surface or (b) separated from the roadway by a detectable vertical edge treatment with a bottom edge 
15 inches maximum above the pedestrian circulation path. EXCEPTION: In alterations, where existing physical 
constraints make compliance with R203.6.1.1 technically infeasible, a single curb ramp complying with R304 shall 
be permitted at the apex of the intersection corner.” Accessible here: https://www.access-
board.gov/prowag/scoping.html#r203611-crosswalks-at-an-intersection 
12 San Mateo Complete Streets Plan (Draft). City of San Mateo. https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/4701/Complete-
Streets-Plan  
13 Yield Intersections: Adapted from Urban Bikeway Design Guide, Third Edition. National Association of City 
Transportation Officials (NACTO). https://nacto.org/publication/urban-bikeway-design-guide/designing-safe-
intersections/unsignalized-intersections/yield-intersections/

--- page 472 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 26 
addition of project trips, does not meet the conditions for an all-way stop control warrant,14 even if all 
project trips routed through this intersection, which is unlikely given the project driveways along 
South Amphlett Boulevard.  
Table 5: Existing and Proposed Pedestrian Facilities at South Grant Street and Betty Lane 
Pedestrian 
Design 
Feature 
Guidelines Summary 
Applicable to 
Project1 
Existing 
Condition 
Proposed 
Condition 
Recommendations  
A.11. Curb 
ramps 
Directional (two) 
curb ramps should 
be installed at 
intersections such as 
those surrounding 
the project site and 
along pedestrian 
routes to transit. 
Non directional 
(single) curb 
ramps are present 
on all corners of 
the adjacent 
intersections.  
Non directional 
(single) curb 
ramps are 
present on all 
corners of the 
adjacent 
intersections. 
The project sponsor 
should include 
directional curb ramps at 
the intersection of South 
Grant Street and Betty 
Lane  
A.12. Curb 
extensions 
Curb extensions 
should not encroach 
into bike lanes but 
should allow for bus 
and emergency 
turning access.  
There are no 
existing curb 
extensions 
adjacent to the 
project site. 
There are no 
existing curb 
extensions 
proposed. 
The project sponsor 
should add curb 
extensions to the 
intersection of South 
Grant Street and Betty 
Lane to improve 
pedestrian visibility. 
These extensions should 
be added to all four 
corners of the 
intersection and should 
extend into Grant Street.  
A.13 and 
A.14. 
Standard 
and high 
visibility 
crosswalks  
High visibility 
continental 
crosswalks should 
be prioritized for 
locations with 
anticipated high 
pedestrian activity, 
or a high number of 
pedestrian-related 
collisions have 
occurred. 
Standard 
crosswalks are 
provided at study 
intersections. No 
crosswalks are 
present across 
Haddon Drive or 
across South 
Grant Street at 
Betty Lane. 
Standard 
crosswalks are 
provided at study 
intersections. No 
crosswalks are 
present across 
South Grant 
Street at Betty 
Lane. 
The project sponsor 
should include high 
visibility crosswalks for 
all three legs of the 
intersection at South 
Grant Street and Betty 
Lane to improve the 
pedestrian visibility  
A.15. 
Advance 
stop bars  
Advance stop bars 
should be installed 
at all controlled 
intersections. 
Advance stop 
bars are provided 
at the intersection 
of South Grant 
and East 16th 
Avenue.  
Advance stop 
bars are 
provided at the 
intersection of 
South Grant and 
East 16th Avenue. 
The project sponsor 
should install advance 
stop bars on Betty Lane 
to improve the 
pedestrian environment.  
 
14 Section 2B.07 Multi-Way Stop Applications. California Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (CAMUTCD). 
https://dot.ca.gov/-/media/dot-media/programs/safety-programs/documents/ca-mutcd/rev9/2025-camutcd-
2014-rev9-part2-ch2b-a11y.pdf

--- page 473 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 27 
Pedestrian 
Design 
Feature 
Guidelines Summary 
Applicable to 
Project1 
Existing 
Condition 
Proposed 
Condition 
Recommendations  
A.24. 
Crossing 
Beacons 
Crossing beacons 
should be installed 
at uncontrolled 
arterial crossings.  
South Grant St is 
currently 
uncontrolled at 
South Grant St 
and Betty Lane 
The project does 
not propose 
adding a 
crossing beacon 
to this 
intersection.  
Although South Grant St 
is a two-lane collector 
street with speeds less 
than 30 mph, the project 
sponsor should add 
RRFBs to both 
crosswalks across South 
Grant St due to the 
collision history.  
Notes: 
1. San Mateo Citywide Pedestrian Master Plan, City of San Mateo & Alta Planning + Design, 2012, Appendix A: 
Pedestrian Design Guidelines 
2. City of San Mateo Collision Data, 2023, 
https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/8a9f7321d1ce46ffbc0e1f04757efb5f/page/Maps/?views=All-Collisions 
Bicycle Access 
The project would include 384 long-term bicycle parking spaces and 30 short-term bicycle parking 
spaces. The project’s long-term bicycle spaces would be provided in each home’s private two-car 
garage. The short-term bicycle parking will be distributed throughout the site near the visitor vehicle 
parking stalls.  
The City of San Mateo, through the 2020 Bicycle Master Plan, has proposed several bicycle facilities 
within the vicinity of the project site. The plan proposes a Class III bicycle boulevard on South Grant 
Street, adjacent to the project, from 9th Avenue to Concar Drive, and Class II buffered bike lanes on 
South Delaware Street from E 5th Ave to Concar Drive. Bicycle boulevards as outlined in the plan 
typically include traffic calming features, such as those recommended to improve pedestrian access 
in the above section.  
The plan proposes Class IV separated bike lanes on Concar Drive from South Grant Street to South 
Delaware Street, and on South Grant Street and South Delaware Street from Concar Drive to 19th 
Avenue. The plan also includes shared use paths on Concar Drive, which will provide greater 
connectivity to the Hayward Park Caltrain Station. This improved bicycle network would provide 
additional non-driving options to the Caltrain station, SamTrans bus routes, and local schools.  
Transit Access and Circulation 
Neither public transit conditions nor public transit access are expected to change with the project. 
Closest to the site, the SamTrans Route 53/53P stop at South Grant Street and Concar Drive includes 
a standard pole and sign. SamTrans Route 292 and SamTrans Route 53/53P share two bus stops 
along South Delaware Street at Charles Lane and at 16th Avenue, of which only the stop at Charles 
Lane traveling Northbound has an unsheltered bench and trash can. The other three stops have a 
standard pole and sign. 
Although there are not currently plans to add these features at these specific stops, SamTrans is 
planning for bus stop amenities throughout its system and may include these features at these stops

--- page 474 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 28 
in the future. None of the stops are located on the project’s frontage and therefore no 
recommendations are provided for accommodating these features into the proposed project’s 
design, although addition of these features to off-site transit stops would benefit the future transit 
riders of this project. The pedestrian improvements recommended above and in Table 5 would 
ensure that a safe and comfortable path of travel to and from transit is accessible for all users.  
Vehicle Parking Conditions 
Resident vehicle parking would be provided via two-car garages that are attached to each home. 
Approximately 512 parking spaces would be provided in these private garages, at a rate of two 
spaces per unit. In addition to these spaces, the project will provide 56 visitor parking stalls, including 
four spaces that are ADA accessible parking spaces. The project also proposes to make changes to 
South Amphlett Boulevard, adjacent to the project site. These improvements include the addition of 
about 21 parallel on-street parking spaces on the western side of the roadway. These spaces will not 
have painted lines to designate each parking space, and they will be available for use by the public.  
Hazards and Emergency Vehicle Access 
South Amphlett Boulevard Proposed Road Diet 
The project proposes several changes to South Amphlett Boulevard. South Amphlett Boulevard is a 
north-south street that currently has two travel lanes in each direction and a sidewalk adjacent to the 
project site. The roadway is approximately 48 feet wide with a five- to six-foot-wide sidewalk with no 
on-street parking.  
The project would narrow the travel lanes to 10 feet and 11 feet, and it would add an eight foot on-
street parking lane, a five foot landscape buffer, and a six foot sidewalk on the western side of the 
roadway. This road diet, which is shown in Figure 7, will create a safer environment for pedestrians 
and will decrease vehicle speed issues on the roadway. It is not anticipated that the proposed road 
diet would create hazards or impede emergency vehicle access to the project site.

--- page 475 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 29 
Figure 7: Proposed Amphlett Roadway Cross Section 
 
Source: SAGE Consulting Engineers 2025.  
South Grant Street Recommended Improvements 
Fehr & Peers recommends the installation of speed humps adjacent to the northern project driveway, 
designed to slow vehicles while maintaining bicycle accessibility through dedicated bicycle cut-outs. 
These speed humps will not only slow down traffic along South Grant Street but also improve 
operations at the driveway by creating safer and more predictable turning movements in and out of 
the site.  
Neighborhood Traffic 
Due to the reduction in vehicle traffic associated by the project compared to the current office uses, 
the project would not generate new traffic on neighboring streets.

--- page 476 ---
Bayshore Commons Transportation Impact Assessment | 30 
Conclusion 
The proposed project will not result in adverse traffic or circulation issues on the streets surrounding 
the project site. The proposed project, which is an infill housing project, is exempt from CEQA 
analysis. The project does not include features that would disrupt these roadway facilities nor 
generate a substantial number of vehicle trips that would worsen or create new traffic issues. The 
following recommended changes to the intersection of South Grant Street and Betty Lane would 
ensure consistency with San Mateo standards and best planning practices.  
Recommendations 
• 
The project sponsor should install directional curb ramps, curb extensions, high visibility 
crosswalks, and advanced stop bars to the intersection of South Grant Street and Betty Lane. 
• 
The project sponsor should install Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacons (RRFBs) on both of 
the crosswalks that cross South Grant Street at the intersection of South Grant Street and 
Betty Lane.  
• 
The project sponsor should install industry standard lighting at the intersection of South Grant 
Street and Betty Lane to ensure that pedestrians are visible at night. 
These features would improve multi-modal access to the project site, improve roadway safety, and 
help the City implement features that are consistent with the City’s Pedestrian Master Plan and 2020 
Bicycle Plan.

--- page 477 ---
P 
Appendix A. Count Data

--- page 478 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Date:
Peak Hour
Count Period:
Peak Hour:
HV%
PHF
EB
2%
0.86
WB
--
--
NB
1%
0.75
SB
1%
0.84
TOTAL
1%
0.81
Peak Hour Count Summaries
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:45 AM
0
11
0
5
0
0
0
0
0
4
21
0
0
0
43
1
85
0
8:00 AM
0
3
0
11
0
0
0
0
0
4
32
0
0
0
50
2
102
0
8:15 AM
0
3
0
12
0
0
0
0
0
5
48
0
0
0
55
3
126
0
8:30 AM
0
3
0
7
0
0
0
0
0
6
38
0
0
0
39
3
96
409
0
20
0
35
0
0
0
0
0
19
139
0
0
0
187
9
409
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
2
0
4
-
0%
-
3%
-
-
-
-
-
5%
0%
-
-
-
1%
0%
1%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
7:45 AM
1
0
1
1
0
0
1
0
2
1
0
0
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
2
1
0
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
2
1
2
0
8:30 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
2
0
3
0
Peak Hour
1
0
1
2
0
0
2
3
9
4
6
0
4
5
19
5
0
2
5
1
1
3
1
3
0
1
6
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Note: For complete count summary (all intervals), see following pages.
         ** Heavy Vehicle Classifications include FHWA Classes 4-13.
         ** Count Summaries include heavy vehicles, but exclude bicycles in overall count.
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Peak Hour 
Interval 
Start
Betty Ln
West Driveway
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
7:45 AM to 8:45 AM
4/30/2025
7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
6
0
4
9
N
S Grant St
Betty Ln
West Driveway
S Grant St
Betty Ln
S Grant St
409
TEV:
0.8115
PHF:
9
187
0
196
159
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
139
19
158
222
0
35
0
20
55
28
0
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 479 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - All Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
2
15
0
0
0
24
0
45
0
7:15 AM
0
3
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
17
0
2
0
28
2
54
0
7:30 AM
0
2
0
8
0
0
0
0
0
5
28
0
0
0
33
0
76
0
7:45 AM
0
11
0
5
0
0
0
0
0
4
21
0
0
0
43
1
85
260
8:00 AM
0
3
0
11
0
0
0
0
0
4
32
0
0
0
50
2
102
317
8:15 AM
0
3
0
12
0
0
0
0
0
5
48
0
0
0
55
3
126
389
8:30 AM
0
3
0
7
0
0
0
0
0
6
38
0
0
0
39
3
96
409
8:45 AM
0
1
0
5
0
0
0
0
0
4
20
0
0
0
32
0
62
386
Count Total
0
26
0
53
0
0
0
0
0
31
219
0
2
0
304
11
646
0
20
0
35
0
0
0
0
0
19
139
0
0
0
187
9
409
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
2
0
4
-
0%
-
3%
-
-
-
-
-
5%
0%
-
-
-
1%
0%
1%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
1
0
2
1
0
7:30 AM
0
0
2
1
1
0
0
1
3
0
0
0
7:45 AM
1
0
1
1
0
0
1
0
2
1
0
0
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
2
1
0
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
2
1
2
0
8:30 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
2
0
3
0
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
3
2
0
Count Total
1
0
3
4
1
0
3
6
15
9
10
0
Peak Hour
1
0
1
2
0
0
2
3
9
4
6
0
8
10
34
4
5
19
1
1
5
0
1
8
0
1
6
0
2
5
3
2
3
3
1
3
0
0
1
1
2
3
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
Betty Ln
West Driveway
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 480 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
7:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
1
0
3
0
7:45 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
3
7
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
4
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
Count Total
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
2
1
0
0
0
4
0
8
Pk Hr Heavy
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
2
0
4
Count Summaries - Bikes
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
2
0
7:30 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
2
0
7:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
5
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
6
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
2
6
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
5
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
5
Count Total
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
5
1
10
Pk Hr Bike
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
3
0
5
15-min 
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
Betty Ln
West Driveway
S Grant St
S Grant St
Interval 
Start
Betty Ln
West Driveway
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 481 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Date:
Peak Hour
Count Period:
Peak Hour:
HV%
PHF
EB
3%
0.68
WB
--
--
NB
2%
0.91
SB
0%
0.91
TOTAL
1%
0.93
Peak Hour Count Summaries
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
5:00 PM
0
1
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
8
46
0
0
0
54
2
121
0
5:15 PM
0
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
0
4
50
0
0
0
41
1
102
0
5:30 PM
0
2
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
8
49
0
0
0
53
2
118
0
5:45 PM
0
2
0
5
0
0
0
0
0
5
38
0
0
0
50
8
108
449
0
5
0
25
0
0
0
0
0
25
183
0
0
0
198
13
449
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
0
0
0
1
0
6
-
0%
-
4%
-
-
-
-
-
4%
2%
-
-
-
1%
0%
1%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
5:00 PM
1
0
1
0
0
0
2
0
1
6
0
0
5:15 PM
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
5
2
3
0
5:30 PM
0
0
1
1
1
0
0
1
1
2
1
0
5:45 PM
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
2
4
1
0
Peak Hour
1
0
4
1
1
0
3
3
9
14
5
0
6
7
28
7
2
2
4
1
1
2
2
7
1
2
10
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Note: For complete count summary (all intervals), see following pages.
         ** Heavy Vehicle Classifications include FHWA Classes 4-13.
         ** Count Summaries include heavy vehicles, but exclude bicycles in overall count.
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Peak Hour 
Interval 
Start
Betty Ln
West Driveway
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
5:00 PM to 6:00 PM
4/30/2025
4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
0
0
1
0
3
0
0
3
0
0
0
0
5
0
14
9
N
S Grant St
Betty Ln
West Driveway
S Grant St
Betty Ln
S Grant St
449
TEV:
0.9277
PHF:
13
198
0
211
188
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
183
25
208
223
0
25
0
5
30
38
0
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 482 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - All Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
2
0
7
0
0
0
0
0
4
46
0
0
0
33
2
94
0
4:15 PM
1
2
0
7
0
0
0
0
0
6
27
0
0
0
30
2
75
0
4:30 PM
0
1
0
7
0
0
0
0
1
7
36
0
0
0
32
1
85
0
4:45 PM
0
3
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
5
48
0
0
0
39
0
99
353
5:00 PM
0
1
0
10
0
0
0
0
0
8
46
0
0
0
54
2
121
380
5:15 PM
0
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
0
4
50
0
0
0
41
1
102
407
5:30 PM
0
2
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
8
49
0
0
0
53
2
118
440
5:45 PM
0
2
0
5
0
0
0
0
0
5
38
0
0
0
50
8
108
449
Count Total
1
13
0
50
0
0
0
0
1
47
340
0
0
0
332
18
802
0
5
0
25
0
0
0
0
0
25
183
0
0
0
198
13
449
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
0
0
0
1
0
6
-
0%
-
4%
-
-
-
-
-
4%
2%
-
-
-
1%
0%
1%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
4:00 PM
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
3
0
1
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
4
0
1
4:30 PM
0
0
1
0
0
0
2
1
0
1
1
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
3
0
0
5:00 PM
1
0
1
0
0
0
2
0
1
6
0
0
5:15 PM
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
5
2
3
0
5:30 PM
0
0
1
1
1
0
0
1
1
2
1
0
5:45 PM
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
2
4
1
0
Count Total
2
0
5
1
1
0
6
5
10
25
6
2
Peak Hour
1
0
4
1
1
0
3
3
9
14
5
0
8
12
43
6
7
28
2
2
4
1
1
7
2
2
7
1
2
10
1
3
2
0
1
3
1
1
4
0
0
6
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
Betty Ln
West Driveway
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 483 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
5:00 PM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
3
5:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
4
5:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
2
5
5:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
6
Count Total
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
4
0
0
0
1
0
8
Pk Hr Heavy
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
0
0
0
1
0
6
Count Summaries - Bikes
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
1
0
3
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
5
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
2
6
5:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
2
8
5:30 PM
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
2
7
5:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
7
Count Total
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
0
0
0
5
0
12
Pk Hr Bike
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
3
0
7
15-min 
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
Betty Ln
West Driveway
S Grant St
S Grant St
Interval 
Start
Betty Ln
West Driveway
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 484 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Date:
Peak Hour
Count Period:
Peak Hour:
HV%
PHF
EB
2%
0.81
WB
8%
0.65
NB
1%
0.84
SB
0%
0.85
TOTAL
1%
0.90
Peak Hour Count Summaries
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
8:00 AM
0
6
11
14
0
2
4
1
0
110
29
18
0
0
46
17
258
0
8:15 AM
0
11
21
19
0
5
5
0
0
84
44
23
0
0
53
12
277
0
8:30 AM
0
14
22
24
0
3
4
0
0
64
33
23
0
0
45
9
241
0
8:45 AM
0
7
36
20
0
5
9
1
0
56
18
25
0
3
33
4
217
993
0
38
90
77
0
15
22
2
0
314
124
89
0
3
177
42
993
0
0
3
2
0
1
2
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
14
-
0%
3%
3%
-
7%
9%
0%
-
2%
0%
0%
-
0%
0%
0%
1%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
8:00 AM
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
0
2
0
1
1
8:15 AM
1
0
2
0
0
0
1
1
3
1
0
0
8:30 AM
3
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
2
0
8:45 AM
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
1
2
3
0
1
Peak Hour
5
3
6
0
1
0
2
2
8
5
3
2
14
5
18
6
6
0
4
3
1
2
2
4
3
2
4
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Note: For complete count summary (all intervals), see following pages.
         ** Heavy Vehicle Classifications include FHWA Classes 4-13.
         ** Count Summaries include heavy vehicles, but exclude bicycles in overall count.
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Peak Hour 
Interval 
Start
Concar Dr
Concar Dr
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
8:00 AM to 9:00 AM
4/30/2025
7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
1
0
0
0
2
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
3
2
5
8
N
S Grant St
Concar Dr
Concar Dr
S Grant St
Concar Dr
S Grant St
993
TEV:
0.8962
PHF:
42
177
3
222
164
0
2
22
15
39
182
0
89
124
314
527
269
0
77
90
38
205
378
0
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 485 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - All Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
8
9
10
0
6
2
1
0
20
8
9
0
0
14
11
98
0
7:15 AM
0
3
9
28
0
4
2
2
0
20
12
7
0
0
23
9
119
0
7:30 AM
0
8
9
16
0
1
2
2
0
34
23
8
0
2
27
16
148
0
7:45 AM
0
5
14
16
0
0
5
2
0
89
20
8
0
2
37
12
210
575
8:00 AM
0
6
11
14
0
2
4
1
0
110
29
18
0
0
46
17
258
735
8:15 AM
0
11
21
19
0
5
5
0
0
84
44
23
0
0
53
12
277
893
8:30 AM
0
14
22
24
0
3
4
0
0
64
33
23
0
0
45
9
241
986
8:45 AM
0
7
36
20
0
5
9
1
0
56
18
25
0
3
33
4
217
993
Count Total
0
62
131
147
0
26
33
9
0
477
187
121
0
7
278
90
1,568
0
38
90
77
0
15
22
2
0
314
124
89
0
3
177
42
993
0
0
3
2
0
1
2
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
14
-
0%
3%
3%
-
7%
9%
0%
-
2%
0%
0%
-
0%
0%
0%
1%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
7:00 AM
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
7:15 AM
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
7:30 AM
2
0
1
2
0
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
7:45 AM
3
1
4
0
0
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
8:00 AM
0
0
2
0
1
0
1
0
2
0
1
1
8:15 AM
1
0
2
0
0
0
1
1
3
1
0
0
8:30 AM
3
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
2
0
8:45 AM
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
1
2
3
0
1
Count Total
12
5
11
2
1
0
2
4
12
7
4
2
Peak Hour
5
3
6
0
1
0
2
2
8
5
3
2
30
7
25
14
5
18
6
0
4
3
1
6
2
2
4
3
2
4
5
1
2
8
1
2
2
0
2
1
0
1
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
Concar Dr
Concar Dr
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 486 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
7:30 AM
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
5
0
7:45 AM
0
0
1
2
0
0
1
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
8
16
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
16
8:15 AM
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
18
8:30 AM
0
0
1
2
0
1
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
19
8:45 AM
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
14
Count Total
0
1
5
6
0
1
4
0
0
10
1
0
0
0
1
1
30
Pk Hr Heavy
0
0
3
2
0
1
2
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
14
Count Summaries - Bikes
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
7:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
2
8:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
4
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
2
6
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
5
Count Total
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
4
0
7
Pk Hr Bike
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
2
0
5
15-min 
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
Concar Dr
Concar Dr
S Grant St
S Grant St
Interval 
Start
Concar Dr
Concar Dr
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 487 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Date:
Peak Hour
Count Period:
Peak Hour:
HV%
PHF
EB
2%
0.86
WB
1%
0.76
NB
0%
0.88
SB
1%
0.88
TOTAL
1%
0.98
Peak Hour Count Summaries
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
4:45 PM
0
14
7
42
0
16
18
1
0
54
38
7
0
0
39
7
243
0
5:00 PM
0
20
6
31
0
15
32
7
0
47
29
5
0
5
53
3
253
0
5:15 PM
0
28
9
27
0
20
22
1
0
51
31
0
0
3
38
10
240
0
5:30 PM
0
19
4
53
0
17
15
1
0
42
41
3
0
0
51
5
251
987
0
81
26
153
0
68
87
10
0
194
139
15
0
8
181
25
987
0
2
1
1
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
8
-
2%
4%
1%
-
0%
1%
10%
-
0%
0%
0%
-
0%
1%
0%
1%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
4:45 PM
1
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
3
0
4
5:00 PM
1
1
0
1
0
0
2
0
2
1
1
3
5:15 PM
1
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
6
1
0
1
5:30 PM
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
5
0
0
Peak Hour
4
2
0
2
1
0
5
0
8
10
1
8
8
6
27
5
1
2
8
2
1
2
1
7
3
2
7
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Note: For complete count summary (all intervals), see following pages.
         ** Heavy Vehicle Classifications include FHWA Classes 4-13.
         ** Count Summaries include heavy vehicles, but exclude bicycles in overall count.
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Peak Hour 
Interval 
Start
Concar Dr
Concar Dr
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
4:45 PM to 5:45 PM
4/30/2025
4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
3
0
0
0
1
8
10
8
N
S Grant St
Concar Dr
Concar Dr
S Grant St
Concar Dr
S Grant St
987
TEV:
0.9753
PHF:
25
181
8
214
230
0
10
87
68
165
49
0
15
139
194
348
402
0
153
26
81
260
306
0
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 488 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - All Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
16
12
34
0
20
19
2
0
54
33
3
0
2
28
11
234
0
4:15 PM
0
12
5
33
0
19
17
1
0
44
17
1
0
0
30
7
186
0
4:30 PM
0
15
9
31
0
17
18
2
0
46
29
2
0
3
28
6
206
0
4:45 PM
0
14
7
42
0
16
18
1
0
54
38
7
0
0
39
7
243
869
5:00 PM
0
20
6
31
0
15
32
7
0
47
29
5
0
5
53
3
253
888
5:15 PM
0
28
9
27
0
20
22
1
0
51
31
0
0
3
38
10
240
942
5:30 PM
0
19
4
53
0
17
15
1
0
42
41
3
0
0
51
5
251
987
5:45 PM
0
7
8
37
0
27
15
3
0
47
31
10
0
1
42
9
237
981
Count Total
0
131
60
288
0
151
156
18
0
385
249
31
0
14
309
58
1,850
0
81
26
153
0
68
87
10
0
194
139
15
0
8
181
25
987
0
2
1
1
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
8
-
2%
4%
1%
-
0%
1%
10%
-
0%
0%
0%
-
0%
1%
0%
1%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
4:00 PM
3
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
4:15 PM
1
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
1
4
1
1
4:30 PM
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
1
3
1
6
1
4:45 PM
1
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
3
0
4
5:00 PM
1
1
0
1
0
0
2
0
2
1
1
3
5:15 PM
1
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
6
1
0
1
5:30 PM
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
5
0
0
5:45 PM
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
1
1
0
Count Total
9
5
3
2
2
0
5
2
15
17
9
11
Peak Hour
4
2
0
2
1
0
5
0
8
10
1
8
19
9
52
8
6
27
2
1
5
2
0
5
3
2
7
1
2
8
2
1
11
2
1
7
5
0
2
2
2
7
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
Concar Dr
Concar Dr
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 489 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
0
3
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
0
4:15 PM
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
2
0
4:45 PM
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
11
5:00 PM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
3
9
5:15 PM
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
8
5:30 PM
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
2
8
5:45 PM
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
8
Count Total
0
2
6
1
0
0
4
1
0
2
0
1
0
0
2
0
19
Pk Hr Heavy
0
2
1
1
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
8
Count Summaries - Bikes
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4:15 PM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
2
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
4
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
2
6
5:15 PM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
6
5:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
6
5:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
Count Total
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
3
1
1
0
0
2
0
9
Pk Hr Bike
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
3
1
1
0
0
0
0
6
15-min 
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
Concar Dr
Concar Dr
S Grant St
S Grant St
Interval 
Start
Concar Dr
Concar Dr
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 490 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Date:
Peak Hour
Count Period:
Peak Hour:
HV%
PHF
EB
0%
0.91
WB
0%
0.75
NB
0%
0.82
SB
1%
0.83
TOTAL
1%
0.85
Peak Hour Count Summaries
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:45 AM
0
2
1
8
0
1
3
0
0
5
30
2
0
0
31
5
88
0
8:00 AM
0
1
2
7
0
1
5
0
0
6
30
2
0
1
37
9
101
0
8:15 AM
0
0
1
7
0
4
1
0
0
5
45
2
0
0
46
6
117
0
8:30 AM
0
4
0
7
0
0
2
1
0
4
38
1
0
0
32
5
94
400
0
7
4
29
0
6
11
1
0
20
143
7
0
1
146
25
400
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
-
0%
0%
0%
-
0%
0%
0%
-
0%
0%
0%
-
0%
1%
0%
1%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
7:45 AM
0
0
0
2
0
1
2
0
3
0
1
3
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
4
0
2
0
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
4
2
1
1
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
3
0
2
Peak Hour
0
0
0
2
1
2
4
1
13
5
4
6
2
8
28
7
0
2
8
0
2
2
3
7
0
1
6
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Note: For complete count summary (all intervals), see following pages.
         ** Heavy Vehicle Classifications include FHWA Classes 4-13.
         ** Count Summaries include heavy vehicles, but exclude bicycles in overall count.
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Peak Hour 
Interval 
Start
E 16th Ave
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
7:45 AM to 8:45 AM
4/30/2025
7:00 AM to 9:00 AM
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
3
0
0
2
4
6
5
13
N
S Grant St
E 16th Ave
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
400
TEV:
0.8547
PHF:
25
146
1
172
151
0
1
11
6
18
12
0
7
143
20
170
181
0
29
4
7
40
56
0
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 491 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - All Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
2
0
1
0
2
0
0
0
4
13
0
0
0
12
2
36
0
7:15 AM
0
1
1
4
0
3
2
0
0
4
21
0
0
0
20
4
60
0
7:30 AM
0
1
0
5
0
0
2
0
0
10
17
4
0
0
28
3
70
0
7:45 AM
0
2
1
8
0
1
3
0
0
5
30
2
0
0
31
5
88
254
8:00 AM
0
1
2
7
0
1
5
0
0
6
30
2
0
1
37
9
101
319
8:15 AM
0
0
1
7
0
4
1
0
0
5
45
2
0
0
46
6
117
376
8:30 AM
0
4
0
7
0
0
2
1
0
4
38
1
0
0
32
5
94
400
8:45 AM
0
0
2
6
0
0
0
0
0
3
15
0
0
0
25
2
53
365
Count Total
0
11
7
45
0
11
15
1
0
41
209
11
0
1
231
36
619
0
7
4
29
0
6
11
1
0
20
143
7
0
1
146
25
400
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
-
0%
0%
0%
-
0%
0%
0%
-
0%
0%
0%
-
0%
1%
0%
1%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
1
7:15 AM
0
0
0
1
1
0
3
0
1
0
0
0
7:30 AM
0
0
1
1
1
0
1
1
3
1
1
1
7:45 AM
0
0
0
2
0
1
2
0
3
0
1
3
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
4
0
2
0
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
4
2
1
1
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
3
0
2
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
2
0
Count Total
0
0
1
4
4
2
8
2
21
6
7
8
Peak Hour
0
0
0
2
1
2
4
1
13
5
4
6
5
16
42
2
8
28
0
2
7
0
1
3
0
1
6
0
2
8
2
3
6
2
3
7
0
0
4
1
4
1
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
E 16th Ave
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 492 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
7:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
2
0
7:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
5
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
8:15 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
8:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Count Total
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
4
0
5
Pk Hr Heavy
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
Count Summaries - Bikes
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
7:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7:15 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
7:30 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
3
0
7:45 AM
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
10
8:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
11
8:15 AM
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
9
8:30 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
2
8
8:45 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
6
Count Total
0
0
0
4
0
2
0
0
0
3
5
0
0
0
2
0
16
Pk Hr Bike
0
0
0
1
0
2
0
0
0
3
1
0
0
0
1
0
8
15-min 
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
E 16th Ave
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
S Grant St
Interval 
Start
E 16th Ave
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 493 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Date:
Peak Hour
Count Period:
Peak Hour:
HV%
PHF
EB
2%
0.88
WB
7%
0.54
NB
2%
0.88
SB
1%
0.85
TOTAL
2%
0.95
Peak Hour Count Summaries
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
5:00 PM
0
2
1
11
0
3
2
0
0
5
44
1
0
0
41
5
115
0
5:15 PM
0
1
2
9
0
0
1
0
0
5
37
4
0
0
34
5
98
0
5:30 PM
0
1
2
8
0
1
1
0
0
7
45
1
0
0
44
3
113
0
5:45 PM
0
3
2
7
0
3
4
0
0
7
31
0
0
0
51
4
112
438
0
7
7
35
0
7
8
0
0
24
157
6
0
0
170
17
438
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
1
1
7
-
0%
14%
0%
-
0%
13%
-
-
4%
1%
0%
-
-
1%
6%
2%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
0
1
0
5:15 PM
1
0
1
0
0
0
2
1
1
1
1
1
5:30 PM
0
0
1
1
1
0
2
0
3
2
1
0
5:45 PM
0
1
1
1
0
1
0
1
2
2
1
0
Peak Hour
1
1
3
2
1
1
6
2
8
5
4
1
7
10
18
5
2
3
6
3
2
0
2
3
2
3
4
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Note: For complete count summary (all intervals), see following pages.
         ** Heavy Vehicle Classifications include FHWA Classes 4-13.
         ** Count Summaries include heavy vehicles, but exclude bicycles in overall count.
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Peak Hour 
Interval 
Start
E 16th Ave
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
5:00 PM to 6:00 PM
4/30/2025
4:00 PM to 6:00 PM
1
0
0
0
2
0
2
3
1
0
0
1
4
1
5
8
N
S Grant St
E 16th Ave
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
438
TEV:
0.9522
PHF:
17
170
0
187
164
0
0
8
7
15
13
0
6
157
24
187
212
0
35
7
7
49
49
0
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 494 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - All Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
2
1
7
0
3
0
0
0
4
34
4
0
0
23
9
87
0
4:15 PM
0
0
2
2
0
1
3
0
0
2
24
2
0
0
28
4
68
0
4:30 PM
0
1
2
7
0
2
3
0
0
5
26
0
0
0
25
2
73
0
4:45 PM
0
3
0
5
0
2
2
0
0
6
35
3
0
0
32
4
92
320
5:00 PM
0
2
1
11
0
3
2
0
0
5
44
1
0
0
41
5
115
348
5:15 PM
0
1
2
9
0
0
1
0
0
5
37
4
0
0
34
5
98
378
5:30 PM
0
1
2
8
0
1
1
0
0
7
45
1
0
0
44
3
113
418
5:45 PM
0
3
2
7
0
3
4
0
0
7
31
0
0
0
51
4
112
438
Count Total
0
13
12
56
0
15
16
0
0
41
276
15
0
0
278
36
758
0
7
7
35
0
7
8
0
0
24
157
6
0
0
170
17
438
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
1
1
7
-
0%
14%
0%
-
0%
13%
-
-
4%
1%
0%
-
-
1%
6%
2%
EB
WB
NB
SB
EB
WB
NB
SB
E
W
N
S
4:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
1
3
2
4:15 PM
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
1
0
4
2
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
5
0
0
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
2
0
1
0
5:15 PM
1
0
1
0
0
0
2
1
1
1
1
1
5:30 PM
0
0
1
1
1
0
2
0
3
2
1
0
5:45 PM
0
1
1
1
0
1
0
1
2
2
1
0
Count Total
1
1
4
2
1
2
12
3
11
15
10
3
Peak Hour
1
1
3
2
1
1
6
2
8
5
4
1
8
18
39
7
10
18
2
3
6
3
2
5
0
2
3
2
3
4
0
4
6
0
1
5
0
2
8
1
1
2
Interval 
Start
Heavy Vehicle Totals
Bicycles
Pedestrians (Crossing Leg)
Total
Total
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
E 16th Ave
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 495 ---
www.idaxdata.com
Count Summaries - Heavy Vehicles
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
5:15 PM
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
2
2
5:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
2
4
5:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
3
7
Count Total
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
2
2
0
0
0
1
1
8
Pk Hr Heavy
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
1
1
7
Count Summaries - Bikes
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
UT
LT
TH
RT
4:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
2
0
4:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
4:30 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
0
0
1
0
4
0
4:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
8
5:00 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
2
8
5:15 PM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
1
0
3
10
5:30 PM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
3
9
5:45 PM
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
2
10
Count Total
0
0
0
1
0
2
0
0
0
2
7
3
0
0
3
0
18
Pk Hr Bike
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
3
2
0
0
2
0
10
15-min 
Total
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Rolling 
Hour 
Total
Eastbound
Westbound
Northbound
Southbound
Interval 
Start
E 16th Ave
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
S Grant St
Interval 
Start
E 16th Ave
E 16th Ave
S Grant St
S Grant St
15-min 
Total
NorCal Project Manager
(415) 444-6376
norcal.projectmanager@idaxdata.com

--- page 496 ---
Location:
S Grant St, S/O E 16th Ave
Direction:
Northbound / Southbound
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
01
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
4
22
49
301
942
451
62
6
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.2%
1.2%
2.7%
16.4% 51.2% 24.5%
3.4%
0.3%
0.1%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
5
26
90
461
908
359
39
9
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.3%
1.4%
4.7%
24.3% 47.8% 18.9%
2.1%
0.5%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
9
48
139
762
1,850
810
101
15
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.2%
1.3%
3.7%
20.4% 49.5% 21.7%
2.7%
0.4%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
    50th Percentile (Median)
27.9
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
27.8
mph
31.8
mph
    10 mph Pace
23.0 - 33.0
mph
34.3
mph
    Percent in Pace
81.2
%
    50th Percentile (Median)
27.0
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
26.8
mph
31.0
mph
    10 mph Pace
22.3 - 32.3
mph
33.4
mph
    Percent in Pace
78.8
%
    85th Percentile
    95th Percentile
Vehicle Speed Report Summary
Total Study Percentile Speed Summary
Total Study Speed Statistics
    85th Percentile
3,738
1,898
1,840
Southbound
Southbound
Northbound
Northbound
Total
Southbound
Northbound
Total
Volume
Direction
Speed Range (mph)
    95th Percentile
1
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 497 ---
Location:
S Grant St, S/O E 16th Ave
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
01
Northbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
1
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
1:00 AM
0
0
0
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
2:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
4:00 AM
0
0
0
0
5
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
5:00 AM
0
0
0
2
3
5
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
12
6:00 AM
0
0
3
9
9
12
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
38
7:00 AM
0
1
3
16
59
27
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
107
8:00 AM
0
0
1
30
85
25
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
146
9:00 AM
0
1
3
16
36
17
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
74
10:00 AM
0
5
0
18
45
22
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
93
11:00 AM
0
2
0
11
38
22
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
78
12:00 PM
1
0
3
20
57
24
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
107
1:00 PM
0
0
2
12
61
39
6
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
122
2:00 PM
1
0
4
17
71
38
8
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
139
3:00 PM
0
3
0
20
79
35
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
141
4:00 PM
0
3
6
22
92
35
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
161
5:00 PM
1
4
3
23
101
57
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
195
6:00 PM
1
1
3
19
66
42
9
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
142
7:00 PM
0
1
7
27
52
25
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
115
8:00 PM
0
0
3
17
30
13
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
65
9:00 PM
0
1
2
8
28
5
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
45
10:00 PM
0
0
1
5
13
6
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
26
11:00 PM
0
0
4
4
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
18
4
22
49
301
942
451
62
6
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.2%
1.2%
2.7%
16.4%
51.2%
24.5%
3.4%
0.3%
0.1%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
    50th Percentile (Median)
27.9
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
27.8
mph
    85th Percentile
31.8
mph
    10 mph Pace
mph
    95th Percentile
34.3
mph
    Percent in Pace
81.2
%
Wednesday, April 30, 2025
Speed Range (mph)
Daily Percentile Speed Summary
Speed Statistics
23.0 - 33.0
Time
1,840
Total
2
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 498 ---
Location:
S Grant St, S/O E 16th Ave
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
01
Southbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
1
3
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
1:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
4:00 AM
0
0
0
4
2
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
5:00 AM
0
0
1
7
8
3
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
22
6:00 AM
0
1
2
12
16
13
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
44
7:00 AM
1
0
4
35
60
20
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
122
8:00 AM
0
5
7
43
92
31
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
181
9:00 AM
2
2
8
44
65
26
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
153
10:00 AM
0
2
1
19
51
14
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
89
11:00 AM
0
0
11
30
32
13
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
87
12:00 PM
0
4
8
33
53
12
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
112
1:00 PM
0
2
3
23
45
11
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
85
2:00 PM
1
2
3
30
58
28
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
124
3:00 PM
0
2
5
25
74
34
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
145
4:00 PM
1
0
5
37
74
23
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
143
5:00 PM
0
1
5
29
118
63
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
220
6:00 PM
0
1
10
33
79
32
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
160
7:00 PM
0
2
7
17
38
16
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
83
8:00 PM
0
0
3
13
22
8
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
49
9:00 PM
0
2
4
17
11
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
38
10:00 PM
0
0
0
4
4
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
12
11:00 PM
0
0
2
1
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
5
26
90
461
908
359
39
9
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.3%
1.4%
4.7%
24.3%
47.8%
18.9%
2.1%
0.5%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
    50th Percentile (Median)
27.0
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
26.8
mph
    85th Percentile
31.0
mph
    10 mph Pace
mph
    95th Percentile
33.4
mph
    Percent in Pace
78.82
%
Wednesday, April 30, 2025
Speed Range (mph)
Time
1,898
Total
Daily Percentile Speed Summary
Speed Statistics
22.3 - 32.3
3
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 499 ---
Location:
S Grant St, S/O E 16th Ave
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
01
Northbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
1
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
1:00 AM
0
0
0
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
2:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
4:00 AM
0
0
0
0
5
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
5:00 AM
0
0
0
2
3
5
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
12
6:00 AM
0
0
3
9
9
12
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
38
7:00 AM
0
1
3
16
59
27
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
107
8:00 AM
0
0
1
30
85
25
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
146
9:00 AM
0
1
3
16
36
17
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
74
10:00 AM
0
5
0
18
45
22
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
93
11:00 AM
0
2
0
11
38
22
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
78
12:00 PM
1
0
3
20
57
24
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
107
1:00 PM
0
0
2
12
61
39
6
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
122
2:00 PM
1
0
4
17
71
38
8
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
139
3:00 PM
0
3
0
20
79
35
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
141
4:00 PM
0
3
6
22
92
35
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
161
5:00 PM
1
4
3
23
101
57
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
195
6:00 PM
1
1
3
19
66
42
9
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
142
7:00 PM
0
1
7
27
52
25
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
115
8:00 PM
0
0
3
17
30
13
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
65
9:00 PM
0
1
2
8
28
5
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
45
10:00 PM
0
0
1
5
13
6
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
26
11:00 PM
0
0
4
4
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
18
4
22
49
301
942
451
62
6
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.2%
1.2%
2.7%
16.4%
51.2%
24.5%
3.4%
0.3%
0.1%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
Note: Average only condsidered on days with 24-hours of data.
    50th Percentile (Median)
27.9
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
27.8
mph
    85th Percentile
31.8
mph
    10 mph Pace
23.0 - 33.0
mph
    95th Percentile
34.3
mph
    Percent in Pace
81.2
%
Total Study Average
Time
Total
1,840
Speed Range (mph)
Total Study Percentile Speed Summary
Total Study Speed Statistics
4
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 500 ---
Location:
S Grant St, S/O E 16th Ave
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
01
Southbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
1
3
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
1:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
2:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
4:00 AM
0
0
0
4
2
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
5:00 AM
0
0
1
7
8
3
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
22
6:00 AM
0
1
2
12
16
13
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
44
7:00 AM
1
0
4
35
60
20
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
122
8:00 AM
0
5
7
43
92
31
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
181
9:00 AM
2
2
8
44
65
26
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
153
10:00 AM
0
2
1
19
51
14
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
89
11:00 AM
0
0
11
30
32
13
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
87
12:00 PM
0
4
8
33
53
12
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
112
1:00 PM
0
2
3
23
45
11
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
85
2:00 PM
1
2
3
30
58
28
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
124
3:00 PM
0
2
5
25
74
34
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
145
4:00 PM
1
0
5
37
74
23
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
143
5:00 PM
0
1
5
29
118
63
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
220
6:00 PM
0
1
10
33
79
32
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
160
7:00 PM
0
2
7
17
38
16
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
83
8:00 PM
0
0
3
13
22
8
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
49
9:00 PM
0
2
4
17
11
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
38
10:00 PM
0
0
0
4
4
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
12
11:00 PM
0
0
2
1
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
5
26
90
461
908
359
39
9
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.3%
1.4%
4.7%
24.3%
47.8%
18.9%
2.1%
0.5%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
Note: Average only condsidered on days with 24-hours of data.
    50th Percentile (Median)
27.0
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
26.8
mph
    85th Percentile
31.0
mph
    10 mph Pace
22.3 - 32.3
mph
    95th Percentile
33.4
mph
    Percent in Pace
78.8
%
Total Study Percentile Speed Summary
Total Study Speed Statistics
Time
Total
1,898
Total Study Average
Speed Range (mph)
5
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 501 ---
Location:
S Grant St, S/O E 16th Ave
Date Range: 4/30/2025 - 5/6/2025
Site Code:
01
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
12:00 AM
4
7
11
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
7
11
1:00 AM
3
1
4
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
1
4
2:00 AM
2
1
3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
1
3
3:00 AM
1
2
3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1
2
3
4:00 AM
6
11
17
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
11
17
5:00 AM
12
22
34
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
12
22
34
6:00 AM
38
44
82
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
38
44
82
7:00 AM
107
122
229
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
107
122
229
8:00 AM
146
181
327
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
146
181
327
9:00 AM
74
153
227
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
74
153
227
10:00 AM
93
89
182
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
93
89
182
11:00 AM
78
87
165
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
78
87
165
12:00 PM
107
112
219
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
107
112
219
1:00 PM
122
85
207
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
122
85
207
2:00 PM
139
124
263
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
139
124
263
3:00 PM
141
145
286
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
141
145
286
4:00 PM
161
143
304
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
161
143
304
5:00 PM
195
220
415
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
195
220
415
6:00 PM
142
160
302
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
142
160
302
7:00 PM
115
83
198
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
115
83
198
8:00 PM
65
49
114
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
65
49
114
9:00 PM
45
38
83
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
45
38
83
10:00 PM
26
12
38
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
26
12
38
11:00 PM
18
7
25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
18
7
25
Total
1,840
1,898
3,738
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,840
1,898
3,738
Percent
49%
51%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
49%
51%
AM Peak
08:00
08:00
08:00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
08:00
08:00
08:00
Vol.
146
181
327
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
146
181
327
PM Peak
17:00
17:00
17:00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
17:00
17:00
17:00
Vol.
195
220
415
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
195
220
415
1. Mid-week average includes data between Tuesday and Thursday.
Time
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
Mid-Week Average
5/6/2025
4/30/2025
5/1/2025
5/2/2025
5/3/2025
5/4/2025
5/5/2025
1
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 502 ---
Location:
S Amphlett Blvd, N/O Concar Dr
Direction:
Northbound / Southbound
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
02
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
0
1
3
39
141
205
169
61
16
1
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.0%
0.2%
0.5%
6.1%
22.1% 32.1% 26.4%
9.5%
2.5%
0.2%
0.5%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0
0
10
86
183
187
126
54
11
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.0%
0.0%
1.5%
13.0% 27.6% 28.2% 19.0%
8.2%
1.7%
0.8%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0
1
13
125
324
392
295
115
27
6
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.0%
0.1%
1.0%
9.6%
24.9% 30.1% 22.7%
8.8%
2.1%
0.5%
0.2%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
    50th Percentile (Median)
33.3
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
33.4
mph
39.3
mph
    10 mph Pace
27.7 - 37.7
mph
44.1
mph
    Percent in Pace
63.4
%
    50th Percentile (Median)
31.3
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
31.7
mph
37.9
mph
    10 mph Pace
27.0 - 37.0
mph
43.0
mph
    Percent in Pace
57.7
%
    85th Percentile
    95th Percentile
Vehicle Speed Report Summary
Total Study Percentile Speed Summary
Total Study Speed Statistics
    85th Percentile
1,301
662
639
Southbound
Southbound
Northbound
Northbound
Total
Southbound
Northbound
Total
Volume
Direction
Speed Range (mph)
    95th Percentile
1
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 503 ---
Location:
S Amphlett Blvd, N/O Concar Dr
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
02
Northbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
1:00 AM
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
2:00 AM
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
4:00 AM
0
0
0
0
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
5:00 AM
0
0
0
1
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
6:00 AM
0
0
0
1
1
6
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
7:00 AM
0
0
0
1
11
18
13
4
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
50
8:00 AM
0
1
1
7
14
32
22
7
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
86
9:00 AM
0
0
0
5
20
18
17
9
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
72
10:00 AM
0
0
0
4
14
20
30
7
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
78
11:00 AM
0
0
0
1
9
13
14
4
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
42
12:00 PM
0
0
0
2
12
17
16
8
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
55
1:00 PM
0
0
0
3
9
18
18
6
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
57
2:00 PM
0
0
0
3
11
15
9
2
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
41
3:00 PM
0
0
0
0
9
18
11
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
40
4:00 PM
0
0
0
2
5
8
5
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
26
5:00 PM
0
0
0
3
6
7
6
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
26
6:00 PM
0
0
1
0
2
5
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
12
7:00 PM
0
0
0
1
5
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
8:00 PM
0
0
1
1
0
4
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
9:00 PM
0
0
0
1
4
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
8
10:00 PM
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
11:00 PM
0
0
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
1
3
39
141
205
169
61
16
1
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.0%
0.2%
0.5%
6.1%
22.1%
32.1%
26.4%
9.5%
2.5%
0.2%
0.5%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
    50th Percentile (Median)
33.3
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
33.4
mph
    85th Percentile
39.3
mph
    10 mph Pace
mph
    95th Percentile
44.1
mph
    Percent in Pace
63.4
%
Wednesday, April 30, 2025
Speed Range (mph)
Daily Percentile Speed Summary
Speed Statistics
27.7 - 37.7
Time
639
Total
2
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 504 ---
Location:
S Amphlett Blvd, N/O Concar Dr
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
02
Southbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
0
2
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
1:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2:00 AM
0
0
0
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
4:00 AM
0
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
5:00 AM
0
0
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
6:00 AM
0
0
1
2
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
7:00 AM
0
0
0
2
5
5
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
14
8:00 AM
0
0
2
3
6
6
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
18
9:00 AM
0
0
0
3
3
1
1
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
10:00 AM
0
0
0
5
7
9
6
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
30
11:00 AM
0
0
1
5
10
10
13
6
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
46
12:00 PM
0
0
1
6
19
21
13
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
64
1:00 PM
0
0
1
5
12
16
12
5
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
52
2:00 PM
0
0
1
5
15
10
12
3
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
50
3:00 PM
0
0
0
9
16
25
18
7
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
78
4:00 PM
0
0
0
9
26
23
13
11
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
84
5:00 PM
0
0
0
3
26
31
22
9
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
93
6:00 PM
0
0
0
4
11
16
5
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
38
7:00 PM
0
0
1
8
6
1
6
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
23
8:00 PM
0
0
1
0
4
4
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
9:00 PM
0
0
0
7
6
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
15
10:00 PM
0
0
1
2
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
11:00 PM
0
0
0
1
2
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
0
0
10
86
183
187
126
54
11
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.0%
0.0%
1.5%
13.0%
27.6%
28.2%
19.0%
8.2%
1.7%
0.8%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
    50th Percentile (Median)
31.3
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
31.7
mph
    85th Percentile
37.9
mph
    10 mph Pace
mph
    95th Percentile
43.0
mph
    Percent in Pace
57.7
%
Wednesday, April 30, 2025
Speed Range (mph)
Time
662
Total
Daily Percentile Speed Summary
Speed Statistics
27.0 - 37.0
3
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 505 ---
Location:
S Amphlett Blvd, N/O Concar Dr
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
02
Northbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
1:00 AM
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
2:00 AM
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
4:00 AM
0
0
0
0
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
5:00 AM
0
0
0
1
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
6:00 AM
0
0
0
1
1
6
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
10
7:00 AM
0
0
0
1
11
18
13
4
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
50
8:00 AM
0
1
1
7
14
32
22
7
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
86
9:00 AM
0
0
0
5
20
18
17
9
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
72
10:00 AM
0
0
0
4
14
20
30
7
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
78
11:00 AM
0
0
0
1
9
13
14
4
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
42
12:00 PM
0
0
0
2
12
17
16
8
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
55
1:00 PM
0
0
0
3
9
18
18
6
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
57
2:00 PM
0
0
0
3
11
15
9
2
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
41
3:00 PM
0
0
0
0
9
18
11
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
40
4:00 PM
0
0
0
2
5
8
5
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
26
5:00 PM
0
0
0
3
6
7
6
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
26
6:00 PM
0
0
1
0
2
5
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
12
7:00 PM
0
0
0
1
5
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
8:00 PM
0
0
1
1
0
4
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
9:00 PM
0
0
0
1
4
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
8
10:00 PM
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
11:00 PM
0
0
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
0
1
3
39
141
205
169
61
16
1
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.0%
0.2%
0.5%
6.1%
22.1%
32.1%
26.4%
9.5%
2.5%
0.2%
0.5%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
Note: Average only condsidered on days with 24-hours of data.
    50th Percentile (Median)
33.3
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
33.4
mph
    85th Percentile
39.3
mph
    10 mph Pace
27.7 - 37.7
mph
    95th Percentile
44.1
mph
    Percent in Pace
63.4
%
Total Study Average
Time
Total
639
Speed Range (mph)
Total Study Percentile Speed Summary
Total Study Speed Statistics
4
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 506 ---
Location:
S Amphlett Blvd, N/O Concar Dr
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
02
Southbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
0
2
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
1:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2:00 AM
0
0
0
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
4:00 AM
0
0
0
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
5:00 AM
0
0
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
6:00 AM
0
0
1
2
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
7:00 AM
0
0
0
2
5
5
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
14
8:00 AM
0
0
2
3
6
6
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
18
9:00 AM
0
0
0
3
3
1
1
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
10:00 AM
0
0
0
5
7
9
6
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
30
11:00 AM
0
0
1
5
10
10
13
6
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
46
12:00 PM
0
0
1
6
19
21
13
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
64
1:00 PM
0
0
1
5
12
16
12
5
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
52
2:00 PM
0
0
1
5
15
10
12
3
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
50
3:00 PM
0
0
0
9
16
25
18
7
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
78
4:00 PM
0
0
0
9
26
23
13
11
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
84
5:00 PM
0
0
0
3
26
31
22
9
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
93
6:00 PM
0
0
0
4
11
16
5
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
38
7:00 PM
0
0
1
8
6
1
6
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
23
8:00 PM
0
0
1
0
4
4
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
9:00 PM
0
0
0
7
6
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
15
10:00 PM
0
0
1
2
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
11:00 PM
0
0
0
1
2
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
0
0
10
86
183
187
126
54
11
5
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.0%
0.0%
1.5%
13.0%
27.6%
28.2%
19.0%
8.2%
1.7%
0.8%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
Note: Average only condsidered on days with 24-hours of data.
    50th Percentile (Median)
31.3
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
31.7
mph
    85th Percentile
37.9
mph
    10 mph Pace
27.0 - 37.0
mph
    95th Percentile
43.0
mph
    Percent in Pace
57.7
%
Total Study Percentile Speed Summary
Total Study Speed Statistics
Time
Total
662
Total Study Average
Speed Range (mph)
5
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 507 ---
Location:
S Amphlett Blvd, N/O Concar Dr
Date Range: 4/30/2025 - 5/6/2025
Site Code:
02
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
NB
SB
Total
12:00 AM
2
4
6
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
4
6
1:00 AM
2
0
2
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
0
2
2:00 AM
2
5
7
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
5
7
3:00 AM
1
2
3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1
2
3
4:00 AM
3
3
6
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
3
6
5:00 AM
5
4
9
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5
4
9
6:00 AM
10
4
14
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10
4
14
7:00 AM
50
14
64
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
50
14
64
8:00 AM
86
18
104
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
86
18
104
9:00 AM
72
11
83
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
72
11
83
10:00 AM
78
30
108
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
78
30
108
11:00 AM
42
46
88
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
42
46
88
12:00 PM
55
64
119
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
55
64
119
1:00 PM
57
52
109
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
57
52
109
2:00 PM
41
50
91
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
41
50
91
3:00 PM
40
78
118
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
40
78
118
4:00 PM
26
84
110
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
26
84
110
5:00 PM
26
93
119
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
26
93
119
6:00 PM
12
38
50
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
12
38
50
7:00 PM
9
23
32
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
9
23
32
8:00 PM
7
11
18
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
7
11
18
9:00 PM
8
15
23
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8
15
23
10:00 PM
2
7
9
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
7
9
11:00 PM
3
6
9
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
6
9
Total
639
662
1,301
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
639
662
1,301
Percent
49%
51%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
49%
51%
AM Peak
08:00
11:00
10:00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
08:00
11:00
10:00
Vol.
86
46
108
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
86
46
108
PM Peak
13:00
17:00
12:00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
13:00
17:00
12:00
Vol.
57
93
119
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
57
93
119
1. Mid-week average includes data between Tuesday and Thursday.
Time
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
Mid-Week Average
5/6/2025
4/30/2025
5/1/2025
5/2/2025
5/3/2025
5/4/2025
5/5/2025
1
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 508 ---
Location:
Concar Dr, E/O S Grant St
Direction:
Eastbound / Westbound
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
03
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
13
35
11
107
431
355
63
7
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1.3%
3.4%
1.1%
10.4% 42.1% 34.7%
6.2%
0.7%
0.1%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
5
20
42
236
520
189
24
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.5%
1.9%
4.0%
22.7% 50.1% 18.2%
2.3%
0.0%
0.1%
0.0%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
18
55
53
343
951
544
87
7
2
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.9%
2.7%
2.6%
16.6% 46.1% 26.4%
4.2%
0.3%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
    50th Percentile (Median)
29.2
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
28.6
mph
33.2
mph
    10 mph Pace
24.3 - 34.3
mph
35.9
mph
    Percent in Pace
77.5
%
    50th Percentile (Median)
27.1
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
26.8
mph
30.9
mph
    10 mph Pace
22.3 - 32.3
mph
33.7
mph
    Percent in Pace
78.3
%
    85th Percentile
    95th Percentile
Vehicle Speed Report Summary
Total Study Percentile Speed Summary
Total Study Speed Statistics
    85th Percentile
2,062
1,038
1,024
Westbound
Westbound
Eastbound
Eastbound
Total
Westbound
Eastbound
Total
Volume
Direction
Speed Range (mph)
    95th Percentile
1
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 509 ---
Location:
Concar Dr, E/O S Grant St
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
03
Eastbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
1:00 AM
1
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
2:00 AM
0
0
0
2
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
3
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
4:00 AM
0
0
0
2
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
5:00 AM
0
0
0
4
5
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
6:00 AM
0
1
0
3
8
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
22
7:00 AM
0
3
0
2
30
26
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
64
8:00 AM
3
9
0
10
60
40
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
127
9:00 AM
4
4
4
12
54
38
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
120
10:00 AM
0
0
1
7
46
44
15
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
115
11:00 AM
0
1
0
4
15
32
8
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
60
12:00 PM
0
3
0
8
31
35
6
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
84
1:00 PM
1
2
1
14
36
37
4
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
97
2:00 PM
1
0
0
6
29
22
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
61
3:00 PM
0
3
1
7
26
18
7
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
62
4:00 PM
0
4
2
5
13
13
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
43
5:00 PM
0
1
2
6
27
13
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
49
6:00 PM
3
2
0
2
17
12
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
38
7:00 PM
0
1
0
3
7
5
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
17
8:00 PM
0
1
0
1
6
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
9:00 PM
0
0
0
3
7
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
10:00 PM
0
0
0
1
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
11:00 PM
0
0
0
2
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
13
35
11
107
431
355
63
7
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1.3%
3.4%
1.1%
10.4%
42.1%
34.7%
6.2%
0.7%
0.1%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
    50th Percentile (Median)
29.2
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
28.6
mph
    85th Percentile
33.2
mph
    10 mph Pace
mph
    95th Percentile
35.9
mph
    Percent in Pace
77.5
%
Wednesday, April 30, 2025
Speed Range (mph)
Daily Percentile Speed Summary
Speed Statistics
24.3 - 34.3
Time
1,024
Total
2
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 510 ---
Location:
Concar Dr, E/O S Grant St
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
03
Westbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
1
1
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
1:00 AM
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
2:00 AM
0
0
1
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
4:00 AM
0
1
0
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
5:00 AM
0
0
0
2
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
6:00 AM
0
0
2
5
5
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
14
7:00 AM
1
1
1
8
12
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
25
8:00 AM
0
3
3
11
11
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
30
9:00 AM
3
1
3
12
7
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
29
10:00 AM
1
2
4
14
29
8
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
59
11:00 AM
0
0
3
9
40
13
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
67
12:00 PM
0
0
1
20
55
21
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
98
1:00 PM
0
2
1
16
42
14
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
78
2:00 PM
0
2
4
17
45
21
2
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
93
3:00 PM
0
0
4
19
51
24
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
102
4:00 PM
0
1
3
26
59
27
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
119
5:00 PM
0
3
3
25
75
23
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
133
6:00 PM
0
1
3
12
29
14
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
60
7:00 PM
0
0
0
11
13
5
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
30
8:00 PM
0
1
1
4
14
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
24
9:00 PM
0
1
3
11
15
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
34
10:00 PM
0
0
1
4
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
11:00 PM
0
0
0
4
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
5
20
42
236
520
189
24
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.5%
1.9%
4.0%
22.7%
50.1%
18.2%
2.3%
0.0%
0.1%
0.0%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
    50th Percentile (Median)
27.1
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
26.8
mph
    85th Percentile
30.9
mph
    10 mph Pace
mph
    95th Percentile
33.7
mph
    Percent in Pace
78.32
%
Wednesday, April 30, 2025
Speed Range (mph)
Time
1,038
Total
Daily Percentile Speed Summary
Speed Statistics
22.3 - 32.3
3
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 511 ---
Location:
Concar Dr, E/O S Grant St
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
03
Eastbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
1:00 AM
1
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3
2:00 AM
0
0
0
2
2
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
3
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
4:00 AM
0
0
0
2
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
5:00 AM
0
0
0
4
5
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
6:00 AM
0
1
0
3
8
10
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
22
7:00 AM
0
3
0
2
30
26
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
64
8:00 AM
3
9
0
10
60
40
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
127
9:00 AM
4
4
4
12
54
38
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
120
10:00 AM
0
0
1
7
46
44
15
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
115
11:00 AM
0
1
0
4
15
32
8
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
60
12:00 PM
0
3
0
8
31
35
6
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
84
1:00 PM
1
2
1
14
36
37
4
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
97
2:00 PM
1
0
0
6
29
22
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
61
3:00 PM
0
3
1
7
26
18
7
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
62
4:00 PM
0
4
2
5
13
13
6
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
43
5:00 PM
0
1
2
6
27
13
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
49
6:00 PM
3
2
0
2
17
12
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
38
7:00 PM
0
1
0
3
7
5
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
17
8:00 PM
0
1
0
1
6
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
9:00 PM
0
0
0
3
7
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
11
10:00 PM
0
0
0
1
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
11:00 PM
0
0
0
2
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
13
35
11
107
431
355
63
7
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1.3%
3.4%
1.1%
10.4%
42.1%
34.7%
6.2%
0.7%
0.1%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
Note: Average only condsidered on days with 24-hours of data.
    50th Percentile (Median)
29.2
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
28.6
mph
    85th Percentile
33.2
mph
    10 mph Pace
24.3 - 34.3
mph
    95th Percentile
35.9
mph
    Percent in Pace
77.5
%
Total Study Average
Time
Total
1,024
Speed Range (mph)
Total Study Percentile Speed Summary
Total Study Speed Statistics
4
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 512 ---
Location:
Concar Dr, E/O S Grant St
Date Range:
4/30/2025 to 4/30/2025
Site Code:
03
Westbound
Total
0 - 10
10 - 15
15 - 20
20 - 25
25 - 30
30 - 35
35 - 40
40 - 45 45 - 50 
50 - 55
55 - 60
60 - 65
65 - 70
70 - 75
75 - 80
80 - 85
85 +
Volume
12:00 AM
0
0
1
1
2
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
5
1:00 AM
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
2
2:00 AM
0
0
1
4
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
3:00 AM
0
0
0
0
3
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
4:00 AM
0
1
0
1
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
5:00 AM
0
0
0
2
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
6
6:00 AM
0
0
2
5
5
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
14
7:00 AM
1
1
1
8
12
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
25
8:00 AM
0
3
3
11
11
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
30
9:00 AM
3
1
3
12
7
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
29
10:00 AM
1
2
4
14
29
8
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
59
11:00 AM
0
0
3
9
40
13
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
67
12:00 PM
0
0
1
20
55
21
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
98
1:00 PM
0
2
1
16
42
14
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
78
2:00 PM
0
2
4
17
45
21
2
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
93
3:00 PM
0
0
4
19
51
24
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
102
4:00 PM
0
1
3
26
59
27
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
119
5:00 PM
0
3
3
25
75
23
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
133
6:00 PM
0
1
3
12
29
14
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
60
7:00 PM
0
0
0
11
13
5
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
30
8:00 PM
0
1
1
4
14
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
24
9:00 PM
0
1
3
11
15
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
34
10:00 PM
0
0
1
4
2
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
9
11:00 PM
0
0
0
4
3
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
7
5
20
42
236
520
189
24
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0.5%
1.9%
4.0%
22.7%
50.1%
18.2%
2.3%
0.0%
0.1%
0.0%
0.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
Note: Average only condsidered on days with 24-hours of data.
    50th Percentile (Median)
27.1
mph
    Mean (Average) Speed
26.8
mph
    85th Percentile
30.9
mph
    10 mph Pace
22.3 - 32.3
mph
    95th Percentile
33.7
mph
    Percent in Pace
78.3
%
Total Study Percentile Speed Summary
Total Study Speed Statistics
Time
Total
1,038
Total Study Average
Speed Range (mph)
5
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 513 ---
Location:
Concar Dr, E/O S Grant St
Date Range: 4/30/2025 - 5/6/2025
Site Code:
03
EB
WB
Total
EB
WB
Total
EB
WB
Total
EB
WB
Total
EB
WB
Total
EB
WB
Total
EB
WB
Total
EB
WB
Total
12:00 AM
2
5
7
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
5
7
1:00 AM
3
2
5
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
2
5
2:00 AM
5
6
11
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5
6
11
3:00 AM
5
4
9
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5
4
9
4:00 AM
4
4
8
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
4
8
5:00 AM
11
6
17
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
11
6
17
6:00 AM
22
14
36
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
22
14
36
7:00 AM
64
25
89
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
64
25
89
8:00 AM
127
30
157
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
127
30
157
9:00 AM
120
29
149
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
120
29
149
10:00 AM
115
59
174
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
115
59
174
11:00 AM
60
67
127
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
60
67
127
12:00 PM
84
98
182
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
84
98
182
1:00 PM
97
78
175
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
97
78
175
2:00 PM
61
93
154
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
61
93
154
3:00 PM
62
102
164
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
62
102
164
4:00 PM
43
119
162
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
43
119
162
5:00 PM
49
133
182
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
49
133
182
6:00 PM
38
60
98
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
38
60
98
7:00 PM
17
30
47
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
17
30
47
8:00 PM
11
24
35
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
11
24
35
9:00 PM
11
34
45
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
11
34
45
10:00 PM
6
9
15
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
9
15
11:00 PM
7
7
14
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
7
7
14
Total
1,024
1,038
2,062
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,024
1,038
2,062
Percent
50%
50%
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
50%
50%
AM Peak
08:00
11:00
10:00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
08:00
11:00
10:00
Vol.
127
67
174
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
127
67
174
PM Peak
13:00
17:00
12:00
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
13:00
17:00
12:00
Vol.
97
133
182
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
97
133
182
1. Mid-week average includes data between Tuesday and Thursday.
Time
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday
Monday
Tuesday
Mid-Week Average
5/6/2025
4/30/2025
5/1/2025
5/2/2025
5/3/2025
5/4/2025
5/5/2025
1
Project Manager: (415) 310-6469
project.manager.ca@idaxdata.com

--- page 514 ---
Site Map - San Mateo - S Grant St Counts
Date: 04/30/2025

--- page 515 ---
Date: 04/30/2025
Location: Driveway 1 - Southwest
Site Code: 04
Time: 24 Hour 
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
0
0
0
7:00
0
0
0
7:00
0
0
0
7:00
0
0
0
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
0
0
0
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
0
0
0
7:45
0
0
0
7:45
0
0
0
7:45
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
0
0
0
8:45
0
0
0
8:45
0
0
0
8:45
0
0
0
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
0
0
0
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:45
0
0
0
9:45
0
0
0
9:45
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:45
0
0
0
11:45
0
0
0
11:45
0
0
0
12:00
0
0
0
12:00
0
0
0
12:00
0
0
0
12:15
0
0
0
12:15
0
0
0
12:15
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:15
0
0
0
13:15
0
0
0
13:15
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:45
0
0
0
13:45
0
0
0
13:45
0
0
0
14:00
0
0
0
14:00
0
0
0
14:00
0
0
0
14:15
0
0
0
14:15
0
0
0
14:15
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:45
0
0
0
14:45
0
0
0
14:45
0
0
0
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:30
0
0
0
15:30
0
0
0
15:30
0
0
0
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:15
0
0
0
16:15
0
0
0
16:15
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:45
0
0
0
16:45
0
0
0
16:45
0
0
0
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
0
0
0
17:15
0
0
0
17:15
0
0
0
17:15
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:45
0
0
0
17:45
0
0
0
17:45
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Lights
Heavies
All Vehicles
0
0
0

--- page 516 ---
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
Total:
0
0
Total:
0
0
Total:
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

--- page 517 ---
Date: 04/30/2025
Location: Driveway 2 - West
Site Code: 05
Time: 24 Hour 
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
0
0
0
7:00
0
0
0
7:00
0
0
0
7:00
0
0
0
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
0
0
0
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
0
0
0
7:45
0
0
0
7:45
0
0
0
7:45
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
0
0
0
8:45
0
0
0
8:45
0
0
0
8:45
0
0
0
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
0
0
0
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:45
0
0
0
9:45
0
0
0
9:45
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:45
0
0
0
11:45
0
0
0
11:45
0
0
0
12:00
0
0
0
12:00
0
0
0
12:00
0
0
0
12:15
0
0
0
12:15
0
0
0
12:15
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:15
0
0
0
13:15
0
0
0
13:15
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:45
0
0
0
13:45
0
0
0
13:45
0
0
0
14:00
0
0
0
14:00
0
0
0
14:00
0
0
0
14:15
0
0
0
14:15
0
0
0
14:15
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:45
0
0
0
14:45
0
0
0
14:45
0
0
0
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:30
0
0
0
15:30
0
0
0
15:30
0
0
0
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:15
0
0
0
16:15
0
0
0
16:15
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:45
0
0
0
16:45
0
0
0
16:45
0
0
0
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
0
0
0
17:15
0
0
0
17:15
0
0
0
17:15
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:45
0
0
0
17:45
0
0
0
17:45
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
All Vehicles
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Lights
0
0
0
Heavies
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

--- page 518 ---
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
Total:
0
0
Total:
0
0
Total:
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

--- page 519 ---
Date: 04/30/2025
Location: Driveway 3 - Northwest
Site Code: 06
Time: 24 Hour 
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
0
0
0
7:00
0
0
0
7:00
0
0
0
7:00
0
0
0
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
0
0
0
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
0
0
0
7:45
0
0
0
7:45
0
0
0
7:45
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
0
0
0
8:45
0
0
0
8:45
0
0
0
8:45
0
0
0
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
0
0
0
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:45
0
0
0
9:45
0
0
0
9:45
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:45
0
0
0
11:45
0
0
0
11:45
0
0
0
12:00
0
0
0
12:00
0
0
0
12:00
0
0
0
12:15
0
0
0
12:15
0
0
0
12:15
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:15
0
0
0
13:15
0
0
0
13:15
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:45
0
0
0
13:45
0
0
0
13:45
0
0
0
14:00
0
0
0
14:00
0
0
0
14:00
0
0
0
14:15
0
0
0
14:15
0
0
0
14:15
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:45
0
0
0
14:45
0
0
0
14:45
0
0
0
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:30
0
0
0
15:30
0
0
0
15:30
0
0
0
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:15
0
0
0
16:15
0
0
0
16:15
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:45
0
0
0
16:45
0
0
0
16:45
0
0
0
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
0
0
0
17:15
0
0
0
17:15
0
0
0
17:15
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:45
0
0
0
17:45
0
0
0
17:45
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Lights
Heavies
All Vehicles
0
0
0

--- page 520 ---
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
Total:
0
0
Total:
0
0
Total:
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

--- page 521 ---
Date: 04/30/2025
Location: Driveway 4 - North
Site Code: 07
Time: 24 Hour 
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:30
1
1
2
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
1
1
2
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:30
0
1
1
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
1
1
1:45
0
1
1
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
1
1
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
3:00
1
1
2
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
1
1
2
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:15
0
1
1
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
1
1
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
1
1
5:00
0
1
1
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:45
0
1
1
5:45
0
1
1
5:45
0
2
2
6:00
1
0
1
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
1
0
1
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:30
0
2
2
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
0
2
2
6:45
0
1
1
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
0
1
1
7:00
0
1
1
7:00
0
0
0
7:00
0
1
1
7:15
0
2
2
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
0
2
2
7:30
1
5
6
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
1
5
6
7:45
0
3
3
7:45
0
0
0
7:45
0
3
3
8:00
0
1
1
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
0
1
1
8:15
0
4
4
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
0
4
4
8:30
0
7
7
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
0
7
7
8:45
2
7
9
8:45
0
0
0
8:45
2
7
9
9:00
1
4
5
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
1
4
5
9:15
0
3
3
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
0
3
3
9:30
1
8
9
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
1
8
9
9:45
2
8
10
9:45
0
0
0
9:45
2
8
10
10:00
0
8
8
10:00
0
0
0
10:00
0
8
8
10:15
1
7
8
10:15
0
0
0
10:15
1
7
8
10:30
1
5
6
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
1
5
6
10:45
1
8
9
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
1
8
9
11:00
3
4
7
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
3
4
7
11:15
1
1
2
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
1
1
2
11:30
4
3
7
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
4
3
7
11:45
2
1
3
11:45
0
0
0
11:45
2
1
3
12:00
0
4
4
12:00
0
0
0
12:00
0
4
4
12:15
2
4
6
12:15
0
0
0
12:15
2
4
6
12:30
4
1
5
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
4
1
5
12:45
2
4
6
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
2
4
6
13:00
3
3
6
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
3
3
6
13:15
2
1
3
13:15
0
0
0
13:15
2
1
3
13:30
0
2
2
13:30
0
1
1
13:30
0
3
3
13:45
0
4
4
13:45
0
0
0
13:45
0
4
4
14:00
1
1
2
14:00
0
0
0
14:00
1
1
2
14:15
1
2
3
14:15
0
0
0
14:15
1
2
3
14:30
3
2
5
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
3
2
5
14:45
2
2
4
14:45
0
0
0
14:45
2
2
4
15:00
7
1
8
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
7
1
8
15:15
2
1
3
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
2
1
3
15:30
3
3
6
15:30
0
0
0
15:30
3
3
6
15:45
2
0
2
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
2
0
2
16:00
1
4
5
16:00
0
1
1
16:00
1
5
6
16:15
2
1
3
16:15
0
0
0
16:15
2
1
3
16:30
5
0
5
16:30
0
0
0
16:30
5
0
5
16:45
3
0
3
16:45
0
0
0
16:45
3
0
3
17:00
9
1
10
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
9
1
10
17:15
4
3
7
17:15
0
0
0
17:15
4
3
7
17:30
7
0
7
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
7
0
7
17:45
1
0
1
17:45
0
0
0
17:45
1
0
1
18:00
1
1
2
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
1
1
2
18:15
3
1
4
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
3
1
4
18:30
2
0
2
18:30
0
0
0
18:30
2
0
2
25
0
25
9
0
9
19
0
19
16
1
17
15
1
16
14
0
14
19
0
19
21
0
21
27
0
27
31
0
31
12
0
12
21
0
21
1
2
3
4
0
4
2
0
2
1
0
1
2
0
2
0
0
0
Lights
Heavies
All Vehicles
2
0
2

--- page 522 ---
18:45
0
1
1
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
0
1
1
19:00
2
0
2
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
2
0
2
19:15
4
0
4
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
4
0
4
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:45
1
0
1
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
1
0
1
20:00
1
0
1
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
1
0
1
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:30
0
1
1
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
0
1
1
20:45
1
0
1
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
1
0
1
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:15
0
1
1
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
1
1
21:30
0
1
1
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
0
1
1
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:15
1
0
1
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
1
0
1
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:15
0
1
1
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
0
1
1
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
Total:
105
150
Total:
0
2
Total:
105
154
1
0
1
255
4
259
2
0
2
1
0
1
7
0
7
3
0
3

--- page 523 ---
Date: 04/30/2025
Location: Driveway 5 - Northeast
Site Code: 08
Time: 24 Hour 
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:30
1
1
2
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
1
1
2
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
4:00
2
0
2
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
2
0
2
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:30
0
1
1
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
1
1
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:15
0
1
1
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
1
1
6:30
1
1
2
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
1
1
2
6:45
0
2
2
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
0
2
2
7:00
2
2
4
7:00
0
1
1
7:00
2
3
5
7:15
1
4
5
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
1
4
5
7:30
0
7
7
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
0
7
7
7:45
0
7
7
7:45
0
1
1
7:45
0
8
8
8:00
1
9
10
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
1
9
10
8:15
3
6
9
8:15
1
1
2
8:15
4
7
11
8:30
0
7
7
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
0
7
7
8:45
1
10
11
8:45
0
1
1
8:45
1
11
12
9:00
0
6
6
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
0
6
6
9:15
0
2
2
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
0
2
2
9:30
1
11
12
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
1
11
12
9:45
1
7
8
9:45
0
0
0
9:45
1
7
8
10:00
3
6
9
10:00
0
1
1
10:00
3
7
10
10:15
2
2
4
10:15
1
0
1
10:15
3
2
5
10:30
3
13
16
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
3
13
16
10:45
7
5
12
10:45
1
2
3
10:45
8
7
15
11:00
3
2
5
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
3
2
5
11:15
5
5
10
11:15
1
0
1
11:15
6
5
11
11:30
2
2
4
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
2
2
4
11:45
8
4
12
11:45
0
0
0
11:45
8
4
12
12:00
6
4
10
12:00
1
0
1
12:00
7
4
11
12:15
10
3
13
12:15
0
0
0
12:15
10
3
13
12:30
5
10
15
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
5
10
15
12:45
8
9
17
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
8
9
17
13:00
6
6
12
13:00
0
2
2
13:00
6
8
14
13:15
6
5
11
13:15
0
0
0
13:15
6
5
11
13:30
7
6
13
13:30
1
0
1
13:30
8
6
14
13:45
8
7
15
13:45
0
0
0
13:45
8
7
15
14:00
5
7
12
14:00
0
0
0
14:00
5
7
12
14:15
5
1
6
14:15
0
0
0
14:15
5
1
6
14:30
6
4
10
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
6
4
10
14:45
9
6
15
14:45
0
0
0
14:45
9
6
15
15:00
10
7
17
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
10
7
17
15:15
3
2
5
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
3
2
5
15:30
13
3
16
15:30
2
2
4
15:30
15
5
20
15:45
6
3
9
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
6
3
9
16:00
13
1
14
16:00
0
1
1
16:00
13
2
15
16:15
6
1
7
16:15
0
1
1
16:15
6
2
8
16:30
11
5
16
16:30
1
0
1
16:30
12
5
17
16:45
7
1
8
16:45
0
1
1
16:45
7
2
9
17:00
13
0
13
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
13
0
13
17:15
8
2
10
17:15
0
0
0
17:15
8
2
10
17:30
9
1
10
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
9
1
10
17:45
10
1
11
17:45
0
1
1
17:45
10
2
12
18:00
4
1
5
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
4
1
5
18:15
3
0
3
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
3
0
3
18:30
5
2
7
18:30
0
1
1
18:30
5
3
8
44
1
45
19
1
20
47
4
51
45
4
49
51
3
54
43
0
43
31
1
32
55
1
56
28
0
28
41
5
46
23
2
25
37
3
40
1
0
1
5
0
5
0
0
0
2
0
2
2
0
2
0
0
0
Lights
Heavies
All Vehicles
0
0
0

--- page 524 ---
18:45
3
1
4
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
3
1
4
19:00
1
0
1
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
1
0
1
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:45
1
0
1
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
1
0
1
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:15
0
1
1
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
1
1
20:30
2
0
2
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
2
0
2
20:45
3
1
4
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
3
1
4
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:30
2
0
2
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
2
0
2
21:45
2
1
3
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
2
1
3
22:00
2
0
2
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
2
0
2
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:30
1
0
1
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
1
0
1
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:15
3
0
3
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
3
0
3
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
Total:
269
225
Total:
5
9
Total:
278
241
3
0
3
494
25
519
5
0
5
3
0
3
2
0
2
7
0
7

--- page 525 ---
Date: 04/30/2025
Location: Driveway 6 - East
Site Code: 09
Time: 24 Hour 
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
0
0
0
6:45
1
0
1
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
1
0
1
7:00
0
1
1
7:00
0
0
0
7:00
0
1
1
7:15
1
2
3
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
1
2
3
7:30
1
0
1
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
1
0
1
7:45
0
1
1
7:45
0
0
0
7:45
0
1
1
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
0
0
0
8:30
1
1
2
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
1
1
2
8:45
0
2
2
8:45
0
0
0
8:45
0
2
2
9:00
1
0
1
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
1
0
1
9:15
0
1
1
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
0
1
1
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
0
0
0
9:45
0
2
2
9:45
0
0
0
9:45
0
2
2
10:00
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:00
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:15
0
0
0
10:30
1
0
1
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
1
0
1
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
0
0
0
11:00
0
1
1
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
0
1
1
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
0
0
0
11:45
1
0
1
11:45
0
0
0
11:45
1
0
1
12:00
1
0
1
12:00
0
0
0
12:00
1
0
1
12:15
1
0
1
12:15
0
0
0
12:15
1
0
1
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
0
0
0
13:15
1
0
1
13:15
0
0
0
13:15
1
0
1
13:30
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:30
0
0
0
13:45
1
5
6
13:45
0
0
0
13:45
1
5
6
14:00
0
2
2
14:00
0
0
0
14:00
0
2
2
14:15
1
0
1
14:15
0
0
0
14:15
1
0
1
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
0
0
0
14:45
2
1
3
14:45
0
0
0
14:45
2
1
3
15:00
3
0
3
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
3
0
3
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
0
0
0
15:30
1
0
1
15:30
0
0
0
15:30
1
0
1
15:45
0
1
1
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
0
1
1
16:00
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:00
0
0
0
16:15
1
0
1
16:15
0
0
0
16:15
1
0
1
16:30
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:30
0
0
0
16:45
1
0
1
16:45
0
0
0
16:45
1
0
1
17:00
1
0
1
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
1
0
1
17:15
0
1
1
17:15
0
0
0
17:15
0
1
1
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
0
0
0
17:45
1
1
2
17:45
0
0
0
17:45
1
1
2
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
18:30
0
0
0
4
0
4
1
0
1
5
0
5
2
0
2
7
0
7
6
0
6
2
0
2
2
0
2
4
0
4
1
0
1
6
0
6
4
0
4
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Lights
Heavies
All Vehicles
0
0
0

--- page 526 ---
18:45
1
0
1
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
1
0
1
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
Total:
23
22
Total:
0
0
Total:
23
22
0
0
0
45
0
45
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

--- page 527 ---
Date: 04/30/2025
Location: Driveway 7 - Southeast
Site Code: 10
Time: 24 Hour 
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
0:00
1
0
1
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
1
0
1
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:30
1
1
2
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
1
1
2
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
2:00
0
1
1
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
1
1
2:15
1
0
1
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
1
0
1
2:30
3
0
3
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
3
0
3
2:45
0
1
1
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
0
1
1
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
0
0
3:30
1
0
1
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
1
0
1
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:15
1
1
2
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
1
1
2
4:30
1
1
2
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
1
1
2
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
5:00
0
1
1
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
1
1
5:15
1
0
1
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
1
0
1
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
0
0
6:00
0
3
3
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
0
3
3
6:15
1
0
1
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
1
0
1
6:30
1
0
1
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
1
0
1
6:45
0
2
2
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
0
2
2
7:00
1
4
5
7:00
1
0
1
7:00
2
4
6
7:15
1
1
2
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
1
1
2
7:30
1
4
5
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
1
4
5
7:45
2
2
4
7:45
1
0
1
7:45
3
2
5
8:00
2
6
8
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
2
6
8
8:15
2
10
12
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
2
10
12
8:30
1
5
6
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
1
5
6
8:45
3
5
8
8:45
1
0
1
8:45
4
5
9
9:00
1
6
7
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
1
6
7
9:15
3
7
10
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
3
7
10
9:30
3
6
9
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
3
6
9
9:45
0
1
1
9:45
0
0
0
9:45
0
1
1
10:00
2
8
10
10:00
0
0
0
10:00
2
8
10
10:15
0
4
4
10:15
0
0
0
10:15
0
4
4
10:30
5
8
13
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
5
8
13
10:45
2
0
2
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
2
0
2
11:00
2
4
6
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
2
4
6
11:15
3
1
4
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
3
1
4
11:30
2
4
6
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
2
4
6
11:45
7
6
13
11:45
0
1
1
11:45
7
7
14
12:00
8
2
10
12:00
0
0
0
12:00
8
2
10
12:15
8
5
13
12:15
0
0
0
12:15
8
5
13
12:30
4
3
7
12:30
1
0
1
12:30
5
3
8
12:45
2
4
6
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
2
4
6
13:00
4
2
6
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
4
2
6
13:15
5
3
8
13:15
1
0
1
13:15
6
3
9
13:30
3
4
7
13:30
0
0
0
13:30
3
4
7
13:45
4
4
8
13:45
0
0
0
13:45
4
4
8
14:00
5
4
9
14:00
0
0
0
14:00
5
4
9
14:15
2
3
5
14:15
1
0
1
14:15
3
3
6
14:30
0
3
3
14:30
0
0
0
14:30
0
3
3
14:45
3
2
5
14:45
0
0
0
14:45
3
2
5
15:00
5
1
6
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
5
1
6
15:15
4
3
7
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
4
3
7
15:30
5
7
12
15:30
0
0
0
15:30
5
7
12
15:45
5
4
9
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
5
4
9
16:00
13
2
15
16:00
0
0
0
16:00
13
2
15
16:15
15
1
16
16:15
2
0
2
16:15
17
1
18
16:30
7
1
8
16:30
0
0
0
16:30
7
1
8
16:45
13
4
17
16:45
2
0
2
16:45
15
4
19
17:00
5
2
7
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
5
2
7
17:15
11
0
11
17:15
1
0
1
17:15
12
0
12
17:30
3
4
7
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
3
4
7
17:45
8
5
13
17:45
1
0
1
17:45
9
5
14
18:00
4
4
8
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
4
4
8
18:15
4
0
4
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
4
0
4
18:30
3
1
4
18:30
1
0
1
18:30
4
1
5
38
2
40
19
1
20
34
0
34
56
4
60
29
1
30
22
1
23
29
1
30
36
1
37
27
0
27
29
0
29
16
2
18
34
1
35
2
0
2
7
0
7
1
0
1
4
0
4
0
0
0
6
0
6
Lights
Heavies
All Vehicles
3
0
3

--- page 528 ---
18:45
2
1
3
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
2
1
3
19:00
1
1
2
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
1
1
2
19:15
2
1
3
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
2
1
3
19:30
9
6
15
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
9
6
15
19:45
2
1
3
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
2
1
3
20:00
2
3
5
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
2
3
5
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:30
2
0
2
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
2
0
2
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
0
0
0
21:00
0
3
3
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
0
3
3
21:15
3
1
4
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
3
1
4
21:30
1
0
1
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
1
0
1
21:45
1
0
1
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
1
0
1
22:00
1
0
1
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
1
0
1
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
0
0
22:30
0
1
1
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
1
1
22:45
2
1
3
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
2
1
3
23:00
1
1
2
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
1
1
2
23:15
1
0
1
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
1
0
1
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:45
1
1
2
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
1
1
2
Total:
239
202
Total:
10
0
Total:
252
203
5
0
5
441
14
455
9
0
9
5
0
5
23
0
23
7
0
7

--- page 529 ---
Date: 04/30/2025
Location: Driveway 8 - South
Site Code: 11
Time: 24 Hour 
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
Time
EB
WB
Total
Total
0:00
1
0
1
0:00
0
0
0
0:00
1
0
1
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:15
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:30
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
0:45
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:00
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:15
0
0
0
1:30
1
0
1
1:30
0
0
0
1:30
1
0
1
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
1:45
0
0
0
2:00
0
2
2
2:00
0
0
0
2:00
0
2
2
2:15
0
1
1
2:15
0
0
0
2:15
0
1
1
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:30
0
0
0
2:45
1
0
1
2:45
0
0
0
2:45
1
0
1
3:00
1
0
1
3:00
0
0
0
3:00
1
0
1
3:15
0
1
1
3:15
0
0
0
3:15
0
1
1
3:30
0
1
1
3:30
0
0
0
3:30
0
1
1
3:45
1
0
1
3:45
0
0
0
3:45
1
0
1
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:00
0
0
0
4:15
0
1
1
4:15
0
0
0
4:15
0
1
1
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:30
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
4:45
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:00
0
0
0
5:15
0
3
3
5:15
0
0
0
5:15
0
3
3
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:30
0
0
0
5:45
0
1
1
5:45
0
0
0
5:45
0
1
1
6:00
1
3
4
6:00
0
0
0
6:00
1
3
4
6:15
1
0
1
6:15
0
0
0
6:15
1
0
1
6:30
3
2
5
6:30
0
0
0
6:30
3
2
5
6:45
1
0
1
6:45
0
0
0
6:45
1
0
1
7:00
2
2
4
7:00
0
0
0
7:00
2
2
4
7:15
1
1
2
7:15
0
0
0
7:15
1
1
2
7:30
2
1
3
7:30
0
0
0
7:30
2
1
3
7:45
1
6
7
7:45
0
0
0
7:45
1
6
7
8:00
1
7
8
8:00
0
0
0
8:00
1
7
8
8:15
2
6
8
8:15
0
0
0
8:15
2
6
8
8:30
1
5
6
8:30
0
0
0
8:30
1
5
6
8:45
1
12
13
8:45
0
0
0
8:45
1
12
13
9:00
1
6
7
9:00
0
0
0
9:00
1
6
7
9:15
0
8
8
9:15
0
0
0
9:15
0
8
8
9:30
2
9
11
9:30
0
0
0
9:30
2
9
11
9:45
3
7
10
9:45
0
2
2
9:45
3
9
12
10:00
3
5
8
10:00
1
0
1
10:00
4
5
9
10:15
10
10
20
10:15
1
0
1
10:15
11
10
21
10:30
5
9
14
10:30
0
0
0
10:30
5
9
14
10:45
5
10
15
10:45
0
0
0
10:45
5
10
15
11:00
4
5
9
11:00
0
0
0
11:00
4
5
9
11:15
4
8
12
11:15
0
0
0
11:15
4
8
12
11:30
1
2
3
11:30
0
0
0
11:30
1
2
3
11:45
9
2
11
11:45
0
0
0
11:45
9
2
11
12:00
6
5
11
12:00
0
0
0
12:00
6
5
11
12:15
9
7
16
12:15
0
1
1
12:15
9
8
17
12:30
10
7
17
12:30
0
0
0
12:30
10
7
17
12:45
7
4
11
12:45
0
0
0
12:45
7
4
11
13:00
4
5
9
13:00
0
0
0
13:00
4
5
9
13:15
6
8
14
13:15
0
0
0
13:15
6
8
14
13:30
4
6
10
13:30
0
0
0
13:30
4
6
10
13:45
7
12
19
13:45
0
1
1
13:45
7
13
20
14:00
5
3
8
14:00
0
1
1
14:00
5
4
9
14:15
4
4
8
14:15
1
0
1
14:15
5
4
9
14:30
11
4
15
14:30
0
1
1
14:30
11
5
16
14:45
6
6
12
14:45
1
0
1
14:45
7
6
13
15:00
6
8
14
15:00
0
0
0
15:00
6
8
14
15:15
3
4
7
15:15
0
0
0
15:15
3
4
7
15:30
2
3
5
15:30
0
0
0
15:30
2
3
5
15:45
4
5
9
15:45
0
0
0
15:45
4
5
9
16:00
13
3
16
16:00
0
0
0
16:00
13
3
16
16:15
4
2
6
16:15
0
0
0
16:15
4
2
6
16:30
4
3
7
16:30
0
1
1
16:30
4
4
8
16:45
3
4
7
16:45
0
0
0
16:45
3
4
7
17:00
7
6
13
17:00
0
0
0
17:00
7
6
13
17:15
5
0
5
17:15
0
0
0
17:15
5
0
5
17:30
6
2
8
17:30
0
0
0
17:30
6
2
8
17:45
7
5
12
17:45
0
0
0
17:45
7
5
12
18:00
3
3
6
18:00
0
0
0
18:00
3
3
6
18:15
4
12
16
18:15
0
0
0
18:15
4
12
16
18:30
1
5
6
18:30
0
0
0
18:30
1
5
6
38
0
38
37
0
37
35
0
35
36
1
37
52
1
53
43
4
47
35
0
35
55
1
56
36
2
38
57
2
59
16
0
16
35
0
35
4
0
4
11
0
11
4
0
4
1
0
1
1
0
1
4
0
4
Lights
Heavies
All Vehicles
1
0
1

--- page 530 ---
18:45
7
2
9
18:45
0
0
0
18:45
7
2
9
19:00
4
2
6
19:00
0
0
0
19:00
4
2
6
19:15
2
1
3
19:15
0
0
0
19:15
2
1
3
19:30
0
2
2
19:30
0
0
0
19:30
0
2
2
19:45
1
0
1
19:45
0
0
0
19:45
1
0
1
20:00
3
2
5
20:00
0
0
0
20:00
3
2
5
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:15
0
0
0
20:30
1
0
1
20:30
0
0
0
20:30
1
0
1
20:45
2
0
2
20:45
0
0
0
20:45
2
0
2
21:00
10
1
11
21:00
0
0
0
21:00
10
1
11
21:15
1
0
1
21:15
0
0
0
21:15
1
0
1
21:30
4
0
4
21:30
0
0
0
21:30
4
0
4
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
21:45
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:00
0
0
0
22:15
0
1
1
22:15
0
0
0
22:15
0
1
1
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:30
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
22:45
0
0
0
23:00
0
1
1
23:00
0
0
0
23:00
0
1
1
23:15
0
2
2
23:15
0
0
0
23:15
0
2
2
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:30
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
23:45
0
0
0
Total:
255
286
Total:
2
5
Total:
259
293
3
0
3
541
11
552
16
0
16
1
0
1
12
0
12
8
0
8

--- page 531 ---
P 
Appendix B. Existing Use Credit 
Comparison Table

--- page 532 ---
P 
Land Use 
ITE LU 
Code 
Quantity 
Units¹ 
Daily 
Total 
AM Peak Hour 
PM Peak Hour 
In 
Out 
Total 
In 
Out 
Total 
ITE Trip Generation Rates 
General Office Building 
710 
340 
KSF 
3,686 
455 
62 
517 
83 
407 
490 
Driveway Count Rates2 
Office & Commercial 
Uses 
- 
- 
- 
1,830 
112 
23 
135 
38 
127 
165 
Difference 
 
 
 
1,856 
343 
39 
382 
45 
280 
325 
Notes:  
1. 
KSF = 1,000 square feet 
2. 
These driveway counts were collected over a 24-hour period by Idax in April 2025 and show the 
number of vehicles and entering the project site’s driveways on a typical weekday during the AM and 
PM peak hour. The driveway counts are provided in Appendix A of this TIA report.  
Sources: Fehr & Peers; ITE Trip Generation Manual, 11th Edition, 2025

--- page 533 ---
Memorandum
Allen Matkins Leck Gamble Mallory & Natsis LLP
Attorneys at Law
www.allenmatkins.com
Los Angeles | Orange County | San Diego | Century City | San Francisco | New York
Three Embarcadero Center, 12th Floor | San Francisco, CA 94111-4074 | Telephone: 415.837.1515 | Facsimile: 415.837.1516
Allen Matkins
Confidential:  Attorney-Client Privileged
Communication and Attorney Work Product
To: Andrew Beck
Link Logistics Real Estate
From: David H. Blackwell
Date
August 15, 2025
Telephone: 415.273.7463
E-mail: dblackwell@allenmatkins.com
File Number: 394037.00003/4912-8487-1509.5
Subject:
Applicability of AB 130 CEQA Exemption to Bayshore Commons Project
On June 30, 2025, a new statutory CEQA exemption for multifamily housing development 
projects was enacted as part of Assembly Bill 130 (“AB 130”) and became effective immediately. 
(See Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66.) The new AB 130 statutory CEQA exemption is similar to the 
existing categorical Class 32 exemption under the CEQA Guidelines, except that AB 130: 1) 
accommodates larger residential projects; 2) reduces legal risks by limiting opportunity for third party 
challenges (no “unusual circumstances” challenges are permitted); and 3) creates a strict project 
approval timeline starting with application completeness.
This memorandum reviews the application materials for the Bayshore Commons Project 
(“Project”) proposed at 1650-1720 S. Amphlett Blvd. in San Mateo, California (“Property”) to 
determine the applicability of the new AB 130 CEQA exemption to the Project. Additionally, this 
memorandum briefly outlines how the streamlined approval timeline will impact the Project. We note 
that unlike the Class 32 Exemption, an analysis of potential impacts related to traffic, noise, air 
quality, and water quality will not be required to support the exemption. Instead, the project site must 
meet all of the SB 35 siting criteria (see below). Therefore, qualifying housing development projects 
should be processed much more quickly since technical studies should not be required, with the 
possible exception of a desktop biological resources survey. 
 As we explain below, the Project qualifies for the AB 130 CEQA exemption. We recommend 
that this memorandum be shared with the City of San Mateo (“City”) before the Project application is 
deemed complete so that the City will be in a position to timely initiate the mandatory tribal 
consultation process, discussed in Section II below.

--- page 534 ---
To: Andrew Beck
From: David H. Blackwell
Date:  August 15, 2025
Page 2
4912-8487-1509.5/ 
394037-00003/8-15-25/zdr/dhb
I.
NEW CEQA EXEMPTION ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
To qualify for the AB 130 CEQA exemption, the project must satisfy specific site and project 
requirements. Unlike other housing streamlining laws enacted in recent years, AB 130 does not 
contain any affordability requirements, and labor requirements are limited to only a narrow class of 
projects, none of which fit the description for the Project. As described below, the Project fits each of 
the AB 130 qualifying criteria.
a. Housing project. The project must be a housing development project, which is 
defined to include: (1) projects consisting of residential uses only; (2) mixed-use 
projects where at least two-thirds of the new or converted square footage is designated 
for residential use; (3) mixed-use projects with greater than 500 units where at least 
half of the new or converted square footage is designated for residential use and other 
specific requirements are met; (4) transitional housing or supportive housing; and (5) 
farmworker housing. (Gov. Code §§ 65589.5(h)(2), 65905.5(b); Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(a).) 
The Project meets this requirement because, as described in the Project application, it 
will be developed with 100% residential uses.
b. Acreage. The project site must be 20 acres or less, except Builder’s Remedy project 
sites must be 5 acres or less. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(1).)
The Project meets this requirement because it is not a Builder’s Remedy project and, 
as shown on the Project application, the Property is 14.47 acres.
c.
Urban area. The project site must be within the boundaries of an incorporated 
municipality or in an urban area, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau. (Pub. Res. 
Code § 21080.66(a)(2).)
The Project meets this requirement because it is within the City of San Mateo, an 
incorporated municipality.
d. Infill location. The project site must be an urban infill site, meaning that: (i) the site 
was previously developed with an urban use; (ii) at least 75% of the perimeter of the 
site adjoins parcels that are developed with urban uses; (iii) at least 75% of the area 
within a one-quarter mile radius of the site is developed with urban uses; or (iv) for 
sites with four sides, at least three sides are developed with urban uses and at least 
two-thirds of the perimeter of the site adjoins parcels that are developed with urban 
uses. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(3).)

--- page 535 ---
To: Andrew Beck
From: David H. Blackwell
Date:  August 15, 2025
Page 3
4912-8487-1509.5/ 
394037-00003/8-15-25/zdr/dhb
The Project meets this requirement because the Property is currently developed with 
office buildings, a commercial building, and parking, which qualify as “urban uses.” 
The Property also likely qualifies under the other definitions of urban infill site, 
though survey data may be needed to be certain.
e.
Environmental siting criteria. The project must meet environmental siting criteria 
set forth in SB 35/423. To qualify, a site must not be located in any of the following: 
1) certain areas of the coastal zone; 2) prime farmland, farmland of statewide 
importance, or land designated for agricultural protection or preservation; 3) wetlands; 
4) a very high fire hazard severity zone (unless certain mitigation measures adopted); 
5) a hazardous waste site; 6) a delineated earthquake fault zone; 7) a 100-year flood 
hazard area or regulatory floodway; 8) lands identified for conservation or under a 
conservation easement; or 9) habitat for protected species. (Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(a)(6); Gov. Code § 65913.4(a)(6).)
The Project meets this requirement because the Property does not fall within any of 
the prohibited categories. Specifically:
i. The Property is not within the coastal zone;
ii. The Property is not on land used or designated for agriculture;
iii. The Property is not on a wetland, as indicated in the Preliminary Application;
iv. The Property is not within a very high fire hazard severity zone, per our review 
of the Office of the State Fire Marshal’s Fire Hazard Severity Zone maps and 
as indicated in the Preliminary Application;
v. The Property is not on a hazardous waste site, per the Project’s Environmental 
Information Disclosure Form and our review of the Cortese List of hazardous 
waste sites;
vi. The Property is not within a delineated earthquake fault zone, per the April 11, 
2025 geotechnical report and as indicated in the Preliminary Application;
vii. The Property is not within a 100-year flood hazard area nor a regulatory 
floodway, per the April 11, 2025 geotechnical report and our review of 
FEMA’s National Flood Hazard Layer Viewer;

--- page 536 ---
To: Andrew Beck
From: David H. Blackwell
Date:  August 15, 2025
Page 4
4912-8487-1509.5/ 
394037-00003/8-15-25/zdr/dhb
viii. The Property is not on lands identified for conservation or subject to a 
conservation easement, per our review of Schedule B of the Fidelity national 
Title Commitment for Title Insurance;
ix. The Property is not habitat for protected species, per the Project’s 
Environmental Information Disclosure Form.
f.
Land use regulations. The project must be consistent with the applicable general plan 
and zoning ordinance, as well as any applicable local coastal program. If the general 
plan and zoning ordinance are inconsistent, the project need only be consistent with 
one. Use of any State Density Bonus Law density bonus, incentive or concession, 
waiver, or reduced parking ratio shall not be grounds to determine the project is 
inconsistent with the zoning, general plan, or local coastal program. The housing 
development shall be deemed consistent if there is substantial evidence that would 
allow a reasonable person to conclude as such. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(4).)
The Project meets this requirement because it is consistent with the land use 
designations for the Property. The Property is designated “Mixed-Use Medium I” in 
the City’s 2040 General Plan and is within the E2-1 “Executive Office” zoning 
district. The Mixed-Use Medium I designation permits a mix of uses, including 
residential, with a maximum density range of 15 to 50 dwelling units per acre. The 
E2-1 Executive Office zoning district permits residential uses subject to R3 district 
‘Minimum Development Standards’ and affordable housing requirements as adopted 
by City Council resolution. 
Per the Project application, the residential density will be 17.7 dwelling units per acre 
which is within the General Plan range for the Property. Further, because the Project 
qualifies for a density bonus, any development standards that would preclude 
development of the Project as designed will be waived or reduced.
g. Minimum density. The proposed residential density must be at least 50% of the 
minimum residential density deemed appropriate to accommodate housing for the 
jurisdiction. Depending on the type of jurisdiction (nonmetropolitan, suburban, or 
metropolitan), the minimum density ranges from 5 to 15 units per acre. (Gov. Code § 
65583.2(c)(3)(B); Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(5).)
The Project meets this requirement because, with a proposed density of 17.7 dwelling 
units per acre, it has a greater density than the highest statutory minimum density of 
15 units per acre.

--- page 537 ---
To: Andrew Beck
From: David H. Blackwell
Date:  August 15, 2025
Page 5
4912-8487-1509.5/ 
394037-00003/8-15-25/zdr/dhb
h. Historic structures. The project does not require the demolition of a historic structure 
that was placed on a national, state, or local historic register before the date a 
preliminary application (as defined) was submitted. (Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(a)(7).)
The Project meets this requirement because none of the existing structures to be 
demolished are on a national, state, or local historic register, as indicated on the 
Preliminary Application.
i.
Freeway proximity. For any housing within 500 feet of a freeway, the building: (i) 
must have a centralized heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning system and the 
outdoor intakes for that system cannot face the freeway; (ii) must provide air filtration 
media for outside and return air that provide a minimum efficiency reporting value of 
16, which must be replaced as specified; and (iii) must not have any balconies facing 
the freeway. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(c)(2).)
It appears that portions of certain buildings on the Property are within 500 feet of 
Highway 101. For corner units adjacent to and directly facing the freeway (see side 
elevations of TH1), the Project will implement the above measures, including removal 
of the balconies that face the freeway.
j.
Tribal notice. The City must notify all California Native American tribes that are 
traditionally and culturally affiliated with the project site, and consult with any tribe 
that elects to be involved, as specified in the statute. Related conditions of project 
approval may be imposed. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(b).)
During preparation of the EIR for the 2040 General Plan, the City identified the 
following tribes as potentially having local knowledge: 1) Amah Mutsun Tribal Band 
of Mission San Juan Bautista; 2) Costanoan Rumsen Carmel Tribe; 3) Indian Canyon 
Mutsun Band of Costanoan; 4) Muwekma Ohlone Indian Tribe of the SF Bay Area; 5) 
The Ohlone Indian Tribe; and 6) Wuksache Indian Tribe/Eshom Valley Band. Of 
these, only the Canyon Mutsun Band of Costanoan Ohlohne People responded. 
Therefore, it is possible that this tribe will respond to a consultation request for the 
Project.
k. Phase I environmental site assessment. A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment 
(“ESA”) must be performed for the project site, and if a recognized environmental 
condition is found, certain steps must be taken to ensure there is no threat to human 
health or safety, as specified in the statute. (Pub. Res. Code § 21080.66(c)(1).)

--- page 538 ---
To: Andrew Beck
From: David H. Blackwell
Date:  August 15, 2025
Page 6
4912-8487-1509.5/ 
394037-00003/8-15-25/zdr/dhb
A Phase I ESA for the Property was prepared for Link Logistics Real Estate, LLC on 
March 26, 2025. No Recognized Environmental Conditions (“RECs”), Controlled 
Recognized Environmental Conditions (“CRECs”), Historical Recognized 
Environmental Conditions (“HRECs”), Business Environmental Risks (“BERs”), de 
minimis conditions, or significant data gaps were identified. No further actions were 
recommended in the Phase I ESA.
l.
Transient lodging. For new projects “deemed complete” on or after January 1, 2025, 
no portion of the project may be designated for use as transient lodging (as defined). 
“Deemed complete” means that an SB 330 preliminary application or a complete 
application (pursuant to Gov. Code § 65943) has been submitted for the project. (Pub. 
Res. Code § 21080.66(a)(8).)
The Project meets this requirement because none of the proposed components will be 
used for transient lodging.
m. Labor requirements. Any building over 85 feet in height (from grade) is subject to 
the SB 35 labor standards, including prevailing wage requirements, recordkeeping 
requirements, additional labor standards for developments over 50 units, and 
additional skilled and trained workforce requirements. (Pub. Res. Code 
§ 21080.66(d)(2); see Gov. Code § 65913.4(a)(8).) All construction workers employed 
in the execution of public or private housing development projects where 100% of 
units will be dedicated to lower income households shall be paid prevailing wages; 
registered apprentices may be paid the applicable apprentice prevailing rate. (Pub. 
Res. Code § 21080.66(d)(1).)
The Project will not be required to comply with the above labor provisions because it 
will not be over 85 feet in height, nor will 100% of the units be dedicated to lower 
income households.
II.
NEW PROJECT APPROVAL TIMELINE
AB 130 also amended the Permit Streamlining Act (“PSA”) to create a new approval timeline 
for agencies with approval authority over projects that qualify for the AB 130 CEQA exemption. 
(Gov. Code § 65950(a)(7).) The amended PSA states that an agency must approve or disapprove the 
project “[t]hirty days from the conclusion of [the tribal consultation process]” for projects invoking 
the new CEQA exemption. (Id.) 
Additionally, the tribal consultation process itself contains statutory approval timelines that, 
when combined with the new PSA provisions, establish a single approval timeline for an AB 130

--- page 539 ---
To: Andrew Beck
From: David H. Blackwell
Date:  August 15, 2025
Page 7
4912-8487-1509.5/ 
394037-00003/8-15-25/zdr/dhb
project starting with application completeness, or for applications already deemed complete, when 
the applicant notifies the City that the project qualifies for AB 130. Because the tribal consultation 
process can conclude in multiple ways, the exact timing cannot be determined from the outset. At a 
minimum, if no tribes elect to participate in the consultation, a project must be approved no later than 
104 days from the date of application completeness/AB 130 notification. If a tribe elects to 
participate in the consultation, a project must be approved no later than 178 days from the date of 
application completeness/AB 130 notification, but may be approved earlier. 
At this time, we understand the Project’s application is under review with the City Planning 
Department. Under AB 130, the approval timeline begins either when the application is deemed 
complete, or for projects with already completed applications, when the applicant notifies the City 
that the project qualifies for AB 130. (Gov. Code § 21080.66(b)(1)(A)(i)-(ii); § 65589.5(h)(5).) For 
the purposes of AB 130, “deemed complete” means the applicant has submitted an SB 330 
preliminary application. (Id.) Therefore, if a preliminary application was previously submitted for the 
Project, Prometheus can start the approval timeline immediately by notifying the City that the Project 
qualifies for AB 130. Note that the City only has 14 days from the date of application 
completeness/AB 130 notification to provide formal notification to tribes. Therefore, we recommend 
informing the City as soon as possible that the Project will utilize the AB 130 CEQA exemption to 
ensure that there are no delays once the application is deemed complete or Prometheus makes an AB 
130 notification. As stated above, at least one tribe participated in the preparation of the 2024 General 
Plan, so it is possible that the Project may go through this consultation process.

--- page 540 ---


--- page 541 ---


--- page 542 ---


--- page 543 ---


--- page 544 ---
The preliminary plans show landscaping throughout the site, which is an increase in landscaping
from the current state of the property. | can share with the applicant that there is a desire for more
park-like or open space.

—

fe

e Plans to monitor traffic and parking

o Its been getting harder to park in my neighborhood with the developments around Station
Park Green and | imagine that Bayshore Commons will also increase cars parking in 19th
ave park. Some of these cars stay for days.

The Bayshore Commons project proposes a two-car garage for each unit plus approximately 65
visitor spaces.

o lam wondering if we can add permit parking within 19th avenue park for residents?

Please contact the Public Works Department to inquire about parking permits for your
neighborhood at publicworks@cityofsanmateo.org or phone, at 650-522-7300 and visit
https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2105/Residential-Parking-Permit-Program to learn more about
the current residential parking program.

o Also, is it possible to add speed bumps? As the traffic increases | can see people using our
neighborhood as a throughway to get from Grant to Delaware.

Please contact the Public Works Department about traffic safety in your neighborhood. Please
also visit https://www.cityofsanmateo.org/2122/Neighborhood-Traffic-Management-Program to
learn more about the current Neighborhood Traffic Management Program.



--- page 545 ---


--- page 546 ---
Holeva Finau

From: Simin Zakavand

Sent: Thursday, February 5, 2026 2:43 PM

To:

Cc: Holeva Finau; Joanna Winter; Elaine Ling

Subject: RE: PA-2025-029 Bayshore commons multi-family development
Hi Carolyn,

Thank you for your comments. I’ve provided my responses to the questions below in blue.

Please feel free to reach out if you have any additional questions or comments.

Thank you,

Simin Zakavand, AICP (She/Her)

Associate Planner | Community Development Department
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7219 | szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org

Schedule Virtual Plan Check

From: Holeva Finau <hfinau@cityofsanmateo.org>

Sent: Tuesday, February 3, 2026 1:07 PM

To: Carolyn Healy

Cc: Joanna Winter <jwinter@cityofsanmateo.org>; Simin Zakavand <szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org>
Subject: RE: PA-2025-029 Bayshore commons multi-family development

Hi Carolyn,
Confirming receipt of your email concerning PA-2025-029, Bayshore Commons. | have included the Project

Manager, Associate Planner Simin Zakavand, in this correspondence, who will be able to address your
questions. Please also see below for her contact information if you’d like to reach out to her directly.

Simin Zakavand

szakavand @cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7219

Thank you,

Holeva

Holeva §S Finau

Administrative Assistant | Community Development Dept.
330 W. 20th Ave., San Mateo, CA 94403

650-522-7236 | hfinau@cityofsanmateo.org


--- page 547 ---


--- page 548 ---


--- page 549 ---


--- page 550 ---
1650-1720 S Amphlett Boulevard
Multi-family Residential Development 
(PA-2025-029)
Planning Commission Public Hearing
February 10, 2026
Simin Zakavand, AICP, Associate Planner
Community Development Department
1

--- page 551 ---
Item Overview
2
• Project Background
• Project History
• Location
• Project Description
• Entitlements
• Code and Policy Review
• General Plan and Zoning Code
• Local Plans
• State Laws
• Objective Design Standards
• Transportation Analysis
• Impact Fees
• Environmental Review
• Public Notice
• Recommendation

--- page 552 ---
3
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
• Pre-Application
• SB330 Preliminary Application filed on 
December 20, 2024
• Neighborhood Informational Meeting held 
on March 26, 2025
• Formal Planning Application
• Filed on April 22, 2025

--- page 553 ---
4
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements

--- page 554 ---
5
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
• Site Address: 1650-1720 S Amphlett Blvd
• Three Parcels
• 630,313 sq. ft. (14.47 Acres)
• General Plan: Mixed Use Medium I
• Zoning: E2-1 Executive Office
• Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan: Planning Area 
Project Site

--- page 555 ---
6
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
• 256 residential Units for sale:
• 64 Detached Single Family Residential – four bedroom
• 192 Townhome units - two- and three-bedroom
• 38 Affordable housing for Moderate-Income (15% of the 
total units)
• 9 Detached Single Family Residential 
• 29 Townhome units

--- page 556 ---
Project Description
7
Leslie Creek
Betty Lane
• Open Space
•
One central Park (0.4 acre)
•
Two dog parks
•
Additional landscaping
• Trees
•
169 removed (49 heritage trees)
•
620 new trees
• Parking
•
2-car garage
•
55 on-site visitors parking
•
On-street parking 
•
Long-term and short-term bike 
parking

--- page 557 ---
8
PROJECT 
BACKGROUND
Project History
Location
Project Description
Entitlements
• Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR)
• Multi-family Residential Development 
• Site Development Planning Application (SDPA)
• Removal of Heritage Trees
• Grading 
• Vesting Tentative Map (VMT)
• Creating new parcels
• Condominium Purposes

--- page 558 ---
9
Code and Policy 
Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans 
State Laws
Objective Design Standards
Transportation Analysis
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 559 ---
10
Code and Policy 
Review
•
General Plan Land Use: Mixed Use Medium I
•
Zoning: E2-1 Executive Office
Mixed Use Medium I
Maximum
Proposed
Density (DU/Acre)
50
17.6
Building Height
5 stories
3 stories
Floor Area Ratio
-
0.93
*Modified Via State Density Bonus Law
E2-1
Minimum
Proposed
Setback 
Left Side 
(Landscape 
Buffer)
1/2 Building Height 
(18’-6”)
15’-0”*
Open Space (At-grade)
20%
(126,083 sq. ft. )
41% 
(259,700 sq. ft.)
Parking
-
-
512 (Resident)
55 (Visitor)
Bike Parking 
29 (Short-term)
283 (Long-term)
30 (Short-term)
298 (Long-term)
Location of Street Tree
Within public right-of-
way
Within private 
property*
General Plan and Zoning Code
Local Plans 
State Laws
Objective Design Standards
Transportation Analysis
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 560 ---
11
Code and Policy 
Review
• State Density Bonus Law
• 10% Density Increase
• Reduced Parking Standards
• One Concessions 
• Unlimited Waivers
• Proposed Project
•
15% at Moderate-Income category (38 units)
•
No density increase
•
No Concession request 
•
Waivers from Development Standards:
•
Reduce Landscape Residential Buffer from 18’-6” to 15’ 
•
Location of Street Tree
•
Objective Design Standards 
General Plan and Zoning Code
State Laws
Local Regulations
Objective Design Standards
Transportation Analysis
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 561 ---
12
Code and Policy 
Review
• Housing Crisis Act (Senate Bill 330)
• Preliminary Application- December 20, 2024
• Freezes development standards and fee structure
• Housing Accountability Act (HAA)
• Limits a local agency’s ability to deny, reduce the density of, or 
render housing development projects infeasible if objective 
standards are met
• Assembly Bill (AB) 130
• New California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) exemption for 
housing development projects 
• Expedited review process
• Decision Deadline: February 22, 2026
• Assembly Bill (AB) 2097
• Removes minimum parking requirements for projects within one-
half mile from major public transit stop
General Plan and Zoning Code
State Laws
Local Regulations
Objective Design Standards
Transportation Analysis
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 562 ---
13
Code and Policy 
Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
State Laws
Local Regulations
Objective Design Standards
Transportation Analysis
Impact Fees
Environmental Review
• Rail Corridor Transit-Oriented Development Plan
• Planning Area
• City’s Below Market Rate (Inclusionary) Program 
• 15% of the total units designate to Moderate-Income 
households (38 units)
• Objective Design Standards (ODS)
• Multi-family design guidelines for low-rise 
buildings
• Pedestrian Master Plan 
• Bicycle Master Plan

--- page 563 ---


--- page 564 ---
15
Code and Policy 
Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
State Laws
Local Regulations 
Objective Design Standards
Transportation Analysis
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 565 ---
Se LO. BINGE gy

SED
iG GRADE
HIGHEST POINT OF

FROM PROPOS
FROM EXISTING

FRONT ELEVATION

RADE

G

HIGHEST POINT OF BUILI

FROM PROPOSED GRADE
FROM EXISTING GRADE

CITY OF SAN MATEO

RIGHT ELEVATION

LO. RIDGE

EXISTING

M PROPOSED

FROM PROPOSED GRADE

ING FROM PROPOSED

HIGHEST POINT OF BU

‘ST POINT OF BUILDING FROM PROPOSED

HIGHE:

GRADE

GRADE



--- page 566 ---
17
Code and Policy 
Review
General Plan and Zoning Code
State Laws
Local Regulations 
Objective Design Standards
Transportation Analysis
Impact Fees
Environmental Review

--- page 567 ---
G3SOd0Ud NOUS ONID ING JO LNIOd LSIHOH

rT
Soveo onusna woys |

Se

A, LQ SL4B
PROPOSED GRADE

EXISTING GRADE

ogy
a2
afe
ope
Sie
a
“fe
fe
We
fe

RIGHT ELEVATION

ot i

advHD aavHD
G3SOdONd WOHS ONION JO LNIOd LS3HOH @3SOdOYd WOKS ONITWNE JO INIOd 1S3HOIH 4:
whe

Zaveo ONUSIXa WOU |

Sie

30VE9 ONLLSIXS WOU
Se

10.5} _

6.6

Bdvao G3SOdOws WOS

EXISTING GRADE
Reneeieness. «ik

PROPOSED GRADE
PROPOSED GRADE

fe)
Lu
-
<<
=
Zz
<{
17)
LL
O
>
e
O

FRONT ELEVATION



--- page 568 ---
ALLEY C



--- page 569 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 570 ---


--- page 571 ---
CITY OF SAN MATEO



--- page 572 ---
Transportation Analysis 
23
• Vehicle Miles Traveled (VMT)
• Exempt under the Assembly Bill 130 (AB 130) 
• Projects within one-half mile of a major transit stop
• Less than significant Impact for CEQA
• City’s Transportation Analysis Guidelines 
• Local Transportation Analysis
• Trip Generation: 1,700 daily vehicle trips net reduction
• Pedestrian improvements
S Grant St

--- page 573 ---
Impact Fees
Estimates 
Child Care Development Fee 
$947,000
Park Impact Fee 
$5,212,420
Wastewater Capacity Charge 
$2,650,160
School Impact Fees 
(SMUHSD/SMFCESD) 
$2,918,920
Landscape Unit In-Lieu Fee 
$1,723,290
Below Market Rate Fractional Unit Fee 
$122,800 
Transportation Impact Fee
$1,192,270
Public Art Fee 
1.19% of the total building 
valuation 
24

--- page 574 ---
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
• Exempt from CEQA pursuant to Public Resource Code 21080.66 (AB 130): 
oThe Project meets all eligibility requirements
o Tribal Consultation - Muwekma Ohlone Tribe
o No balconies facing the freeway within 500 feet of the freeway 
• No significant effects on the environment per AB 130
25

--- page 575 ---
Public Comments
• Neighborhood Meeting: March 26, 2025 - 25 neighbors attended
• Comments/concerns related to traffic, construction timeline, ADA accessibility
• Public noticing: 10 days in advance of the hearing (January 30, 2026): 
• Newspaper Notice 
• Notice neighbors within 1,000 ft. of project site
• All interested parties
• City’s “Notify Me” email list
26

--- page 576 ---
Modifications to the Conditions of Approval
27
Condition #42: S GRANT ST – The applicant shall perform a full width 2” grind 
and RHMA (rubberized hot mix asphalt) overlay of S Grant Street along the 
project frontage with 6” base repairs as needed. Existing rubber speed 
humps will need to be replaced with new rubber speed humps in kind. The 
applicant shall remove and replace the existing sidewalk with new sidewalk 
and landscaping in substantial conformance with the approved Tentative 
Map.

--- page 577 ---
Recommendation
28
Adopt a Resolution approving the Site Plan and Architectural Review (SPAR), 
Site Development Planning Application (SDPA), and Vesting Tentative Map 
(VTM) for the construction of 256 multi-family residential units located at 
1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard and find that the project is exempt from 
the California Environmental Quality Act pursuant to Public Resource Code 
21080.66, based on the Findings for Approval and subject to Conditions of 
Approval with the recommended modifications.

--- page 578 ---
Thank You
Simin Zakavand, AICP, Associate Planner
Community Development Department
szakavand@cityofsanmateo.org
(650) 522-7219

--- page 579 ---
Backup Slides



--- page 580 ---
30ve9
G3SOd0ed WOUS ONIGINE 30 LNIOd LSSHSIH

8 9E
BVO ONILSIXS WOUS}

we OE =
30VASD G3ISOdOwd WONS
o£ 62

“Sib 6

wit ZT ri w/e TAT
ot 6
at wes
oO a
HI on

24.1 SLAB
PROPOSED GRADE _

HH
1
1
1
'
1
Hi

B0vYEo
G3S0d0ud WO¥S ONIGTING 30 LNIOd LSSHOIH

08 9€

3OVYO ONILSIXS WONS)
wh OE

|
30vxeS GasOd0dd Wows

EXISTING GRADE

RIGHT ELEVATION

FRONT ELEVATION

T.O, RIDGE

30vH9
Q3aSOdOdd NOUS ONIDINE 30 LNIOd LSIHSIH

«8 9E

JOVYS ONILSIXS WON
ob OE

30VYS G3SOdONd WO:
£62,

WIE TT } weft TAT
Sid 16 aba

ot uo um
oO a ged
on On

' Fie i

Bove
3S0d0ud WO8S ONITTING 30 LNIOd LSSHOIH

08 OE

JAVA ONILSIXS WONS

wo OE
a

|
B30VeS G3SOdOud NOY
af 67

wPlE ZT



--- page 581 ---
gave
GaSOdOUd NOS ONITTING 4O LNIOd LS3HOIH

FAVYD ONILSIXT WOME |
ry

= 5

3OWUD GISOdOud NOUS |

PROPOSED GRADE

30vuo
G3S0d0Ud NOUS ONID UNG JO LNIOd LSSHOIH

EXISTING GRADE

RIGHT ELEVATION

FRONT ELEVATION

save)
GaSOdOUd WOU DNITTING JO LNIOd LS3H

SQVYS ONILSIXS WOU |

30vuS G3s0d0ud WOUS
itz Be

20veD
GaSOdOdd NOUS ONITTING JO LNIOd LS3HOIK

30VHO ONISIXS WOHS }

.6AE

JOWYS GaSOdOud WOES

my
2
2
o
2
=
i=
9
Se
ii

fe)
Lu
-
<L
=
z
<{
WY)
LL
O
>
rE
O



--- page 582 ---
33
Standard
Requirement
Waiver
1
Pedestrian Paseos
Public access easement
Private 
2
Pedestrian Paseos
Three pedestrian amenities
One pedestrian amenity 
3
Articulation Details
At least two identified façade articulations
Front elevations of some 
buildings
4
Building Materials and Colors
Each color or material shall constitute at least 10 
percent of the building façade
Less than 10% 
5
Building Materials and Colors
Six-inch offset for changes in color and materials
Changes without offset
6
Massing Breaks – Generally
At least three primary masses.
Two primary masses 
instead of three
7
Massing Breaks – Low-rise 
buildings
18-inch-deep wall plane break for every 15 to 30 
feet of horizontal wall length
Wall plane breaks at 
intervals of up to 81 feet
8
Residential Entries
18 and 42 inches above or below the grade
less than 18 inches above 
grade
9
Roof Form Variation
Variations in roof height and/or form for a minimum 
of 30 percent of the roofline.
No roof height variation 
for some of buildings

--- page 583 ---
34
Standard
Requirement
Waiver
10
Roof From – Additional 
Requirements
Eave treatments including
depth, material, style, and brackets shall be 
consistent across a building
Non-matching eave depths
11
Window and Door Alignment 
Vertical Alignment
Vertically along a centerline
Not centrally aligned
12
Window and Door Alignment 
Horizontal Alignment
Side alignment 
Not horizontally aligned.
13
Window and Door Size
Vertically oriented, rectangular, and taller 
than they are wide, equal in size
Not recessed 
14
Windows – Depth
Recessed a minimum of three
inches from the exterior wall surface
Not recessed 
15
Window Details (at least two)
Window trim, projected lintel, projected 
sill, and sashes
Only window trim
16
Lites
square or vertically oriented rectangles
Less than 10% of the lites 
will be horizontal and 
rectangular

--- page 584 ---
35
Standard
Requirement
Waiver
17
Matching Lite Size and Proportions
Consistent among windows in a group
Variation in lite sizes and 
proportions
18
Entries, Doors, and Stairways – Entry 
Locations
Pedestrian or main entry fronting the 
primary or secondary street frontage or
No pedestrian entry 
fronting Amphlett Blvd
19
Entries, Doors, and Stairways
Recessed a minimum of six inches
Less than six inches
20
Utility Room Entries
Shall not be located on the primary 
street
Utility closets are face S. 
Amphlett Blvd
21
Private Open Space
transparent grating or
railing that is at least 50% open
Balconies are
enclosed by solid walls
22
Transformers
Screened. Shall be located within a 
structure or placed underground
Transformers are not 
screened
23
Required Screening
all above-ground onsite ancillary 
features shall be screened
Transformers are not 
screened

--- page 585 ---
36
Standard
Requirement
Waiver
24
Site Planning – Building, Siting, 
Orientation, and Frontage 
Features – Setbacks
Residential setback areas: (1) 
porch/stoop; (2) landscaped areas; (3) 
small private gardens
Waiver for buildings 
facing Amphlett Blvd
25
Site Planning – Building, Siting, 
Orientation, and Frontage 
Features – Entries
Primary building entries to face the 
public street and sidewalk
Waiver for buildings 
facing Amphlett Blvd
26
Building Design and 
Architecture
•
Upper floor articulation
•
One of the following for all buildings 
visible from public street: trellises, 
arcades, awnings, balconies, belt 
courses along sill lines, or capped 
parapets
Waiver for buildings 
facing Amphlett Blvd
Rail Corridor Transit Oriented Development Plan Design Standards

--- page 586 ---


--- page 587 ---


--- page 588 ---


--- page 589 ---
February 10, 2026 
Bayshore Commons – General Planning Application
1650-1720 Amphlett Blvd., San Mateo, CA
City of San Mateo
Planning Commission

--- page 590 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
2
Current owner and property manager, 
formerly operating as PS Business 
Parks. The team brings over 25 years of 
Bay Area experience and has been 
actively involved in the General Plan 
process, providing local knowledge and 
development expertise
Architecture, planning, and interiors firm 
with 50 years of experience 
shaping successful residential 
communities. Recent projects in San 
Mateo include the Pulte 190 and The 
Heights
Architecture & Planning
Civil engineering firm drawing on 
30 years of experience. 
Recent residential projects include 
the Residences at Yerba Buena 
Island, Alwell Pleasant Hill, Avalon 
Public Market, and 50 Jones San 
Francisco
Civil Engineering
Landscape Architecture firm with 
over 25 years of experience in 
understanding and designing a wide 
range of residential communities 
and spaces. Recent residential 
projects include Peninsula Heights
Landscape Architecture
A Bay Area transportation planning 
and engineering firm serving public 
and private clients since 1985. 
Fehr & Peers has completed 
dozens of transportation impact 
studies and citywide planning 
efforts in San Mateo 
Traffic Engineers
Team Approach
B9 Sequoia Bayshore Owner LLC 
Owner & Developer

--- page 591 ---


--- page 592 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
4
Existing Conditions
•
14.5-acre site 
•
(7) 3-story buildings
(1) 1-story building
•
Built in 1970s
•
Legacy office 
park configuration
•
Large impervious surface 
parking lots 
•
Declining occupancy since 
pandemic

--- page 593 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
5
General Plan & Housing Element 
General Plan Goals
Bayshore Commons
General Plan Designation
Mixed Use Medium (15-50 DU/Ac)
Expand Housing Options
Moderate-income ownership housing
Enhance Transit Oriented Housing
0.5 mi from Hayward Park Caltrain Station
Nature as the Foundation
Invests in natural infrastructure and 
expands access to open space
Environmental Sustainability
All-electric homes, all homes wired for 
EV chargers and solar-ready, 328 bike parking 
spaces
Support the Local Economy
Infill housing supports jobs and local business

--- page 594 ---
Community Plan

i Sng in

Fei!
H 4iiiigENaapaitebpit

ee

=

Pree tid

ind
ay tal

pL iW

| Ene

SFD

TH1
_ TH2


--- page 595 ---
•
11 unique floorplans add variety and diversity of pricing
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
7
Housing Program
3 Distinct Townhome and Single Family Housing Types
•
2-3 Bedrooms / 2.5-3 Baths
•
1,475-1,811 SF
192 Single Family Attached Townhomes
•
4 Bedrooms / 3.5 Baths
•
2,122-2,252 SF
64 Single Family Detached Homes
•
Affordable homes evenly distributed in location and product type
38 Deed-Restricted Homes for Moderate-Income Families

--- page 596 ---
Elevations, Colors, and Materials
Single Family
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
8

--- page 597 ---
Elevations, Colors, and Materials
Townhomes
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
9

--- page 598 ---
• 512 private parking spaces (2 garage spaces per home)
• 55 Guest Parking spaces across the site
• 328 bike parking spaces (resident and visitor)
• Internal street network designed for low speeds and safety
• Clear pedestrian connections to amenities and open spaces
• Site circulation designed to minimize impacts on existing streets
• Pedestrian safety improved along S. Grant Street
• Streetscape improved along S. Amphlett Blvd
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
1 0
Parking and Circulation

--- page 599 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
1 1
Landscaping Plan
•
5.9 acres of open space (41% of total site)
•
96,000 sf of onsite landscaped planting area
•
10,000 sf of offsite landscaped planting area
•
659 new trees 
o 616 on-site trees & 43 off-site trees
•
Pervious landscaped areas increased by 50%
o 3.8 acres of paved areas removed
o 1.5 acres of landscaped areas added
•
Landscaping palette prioritizes native, 
drought tolerant and pollinator plant species

--- page 600 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
1 2
Creative Design Solutions
Creative solutions developed to 
address noise and air quality 
concerns from US101 
•
Sunrooms
o Unique indoor spaces replace 
balconies to provide indoor-outdoor 
spaces with indoor air quality
•
Building Orientation
o Buildings rotated 90 degrees so 
operable windows don't face 
freeway
•
Street Trees Added along Amphlett
o Enhanced biophilia buffers noise 
and particulate matter

--- page 601 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
1 3
38 moderate income (120% of AMI) homes spread throughout the project, 
in all phases and across all product types
Affordable Housing Distribution
Affordable Unit

--- page 602 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
1 4
Grant: Existing Conditions
Aging residential street with limited curb appeal and inactive surroundings, 
creating an underutilized streetscape

--- page 603 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
1 5
Grant: Neighborhood Vision
New traffic calming, crosswalk safety enhancements and housing on both 
sides of Grant enhances neighborhood feel and provides "eyes on the street" 
to improve neighborhood safety and livability

--- page 604 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
1 6
Amphlett: Barren Streetscape
No bike lanes, high traffic volumes, and elevated noise levels create a vehicle-
dominated streetscape

--- page 605 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
1 7
Amphlett: A New Livable Street 
Additional landscaping, bike lanes and parking help to buffer freeway noise, 
reduce speeds and increase safety

--- page 606 ---
2 / 6 / 2 0 2 6
1 8
Total Estimated Impact Fees
$15.8mm
Wastewater / Sewer Capacity Fee
$2.6mm
Transportation Impact Fee
$1.2mm
Tree Replacement Fee
$1.7mm
Public Schools Impact Fee (SMUHSD/SMFCESD)
$2.9mm
Childcare Development Fee 
$947k
City Parks Development Fee
$5.2mm
Public Art
$1.3mm
Impact Fees per Home: $62,000
Fees are paid to the City or School District
Project Impact Fees

--- page 607 ---
Thank You!

19


--- page 608 ---
1
From:
Kevin O'Keefe 
Sent:
Tuesday, February 10, 2026 2:15 PM
To:
Planning Commission
Subject:
1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard Public Comments
1) Replacement of existing trees #1 - #22 by the northern dog park abutting Leslie Creek - as the existing trees are tall, 
please ensure that replacement trees in this area are also on the taller side. 
 
2) On packet page #208 it says that "Existing rubber speed humps will need to be replaced with new rubber speed humps 
in kind" on S. Grant Street. The existing rubber speed bumps are poorly designed, requiring vehicles to slow to <15 mph 
to avoid significant jostling. If the existing speed bumps must be replaced, please do so with an alternative style of speed 
bumps (e.g. the style currently used on Claremont St. within the Sunnybrae neighborhood) rather than the rubber "in kind" 
versions. 
 
Kevin O'Keefe 
Sunnybrae Homeowner (Haddon Drive)

--- page 609 ---
1
From:
James Lloyd 
Sent:
Tuesday, February 10, 2026 4:18 PM
To:
Planning Commission
Cc:
City Attorney's Office; Clerk; Community Development Distribution; City Mgr
Subject:
public comments re items 1 and 2 for tonight's Planning Commission meeting
Attachments:
San Mateo - 668 East 3rd Avenue - HAA.pdf; San Mateo - 1650-1720 S. Amphlett 
Boulevard - HAA.pdf
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
Please see attached public comments regarding agenda items 1 and 2 for tonight's Planning 
Commission meeting: 
 
the proposed 128-unit housing development project at 668 East 3rd Avenue, which includes 10 
very low-income units, and 10 moderate-income units; and 
 
the proposed 256-unit housing development project at 1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard, which 
includes 38 moderate-income units. 
Sincerely, 
 
James M. Lloyd 
Director of Planning and Investigations 
California Housing Defense Fund

--- page 610 ---
Feb 10, 2026
 
City of San Mateo 
330 W 20th Ave 
San Mateo, CA 94403 
 
By Email: PlanningCommission@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
CC: CityAttorneysOffice@cityofsanmateo.org, clerk@cityofsanmateo.org, 
communitydevelopment@cityofsanmateo.org, citymanager@cityofsanmateo.org  
 
Re: Proposed Housing Development Project at 1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard 
 
Dear San Mateo Planning Commission, 
 
The California Housing Defense Fund (“CalHDF”) submits this letter to remind the City of its 
obligation to abide by all relevant state laws when evaluating the proposed 256-unit housing 
development project at 1650-1720 S. Amphlett Boulevard, which includes 38 
moderate-income units. These laws include the Housing Accountability Act (“HAA”), the 
Density Bonus Law (“DBL”), and AB 130. 
 
The HAA provides the project legal protections. It requires approval of zoning and general 
plan compliant housing development projects unless findings can be made regarding 
specific, objective, written health and safety hazards. (Gov. Code, § 65589.5, subds. (d.), (j).) 
The HAA also bars cities from imposing conditions on the approval of such projects that 
would reduce the project’s density unless, again, such written findings are made. (Ibid.) As a 
development with at least two-thirds of its area devoted to residential uses, the project falls 
within the HAA’s ambit, and it complies with local zoning code and the City’s general plan.  
Increased density, concessions, and waivers that a project is entitled to under the DBL (Gov. 
Code, § 65915) do not render the project noncompliant with the zoning code or general plan, 
for purposes of the HAA (Gov. Code, § 65589.5, subd. (j)(3)).  The HAA’s protections therefore 
apply, and the City may not reject the project except based on health and safety standards, as 
outlined above. Furthermore, if the City rejects the project or impairs its feasibility, it must 
conduct “a thorough analysis of the economic, social, and environmental effects of the 
action.” (Id. at subd. (b).)  
 
 
2201 Broadway, PH1, Oakland, CA 94612 
www.calhdf.org

--- page 611 ---
CalHDF also writes to emphasize that the DBL offers the proposed development certain 
protections. The City must respect these protections. In addition to granting the increase in 
residential units allowed by the DBL, the City must not deny the project the proposed 
concessions and waivers with respect to pedestrian paseos, articulation, materials and 
colors, massing breaks, entries, roof form, window and door alignment, window and door 
size, window depths, window details, “lites,” window variation, entry location, garage door 
recesses, utility room entries, private open space, transformer locations, screening, setback 
areas, entry locations, articulation, landscape buffers, and trees. If the City wishes to deny 
requested waivers, Government Code section 65915, subdivision (e)(1) requires findings that 
the waivers would have a specific, adverse impact upon health or safety, and for which there 
is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact. If the 
City wishes to deny requested concessions, Government Code section 65915, subdivision 
(d)(1) requires findings that the concessions would not result in identifiable and actual cost 
reductions, that the concessions would have a specific, adverse impact on public health or 
safety, or that the concessions are contrary to state or federal law. The City, if it makes any 
such findings, bears the burden of proof. (Gov. Code, § 65915, subd. (d)(4).) Of note, the DBL 
specifically allows for a reduction in required accessory parking in addition to the allowable 
waivers and concessions. (Id. at subd. (p).) Additionally, the California Court of Appeal has 
ruled that when an applicant has requested one or more waivers and/or concessions 
pursuant to the DBL, the City “may not apply any development standard that would 
physically preclude construction of that project as designed, even if the building includes 
‘amenities’ beyond the bare minimum of building components.” (Bankers Hill 150 v. City of 
San Diego (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 755, 775.) 
 
Furthermore, the project is eligible for a statutory exemption from environmental review  
pursuant to section 21080.66 of the Public Resources Code. Caselaw from the California 
Court of Appeal affirms that local governments err, and may be sued, when they improperly 
refuse to grant a project a CEQA exemption or streamlined CEQA review to which it is 
entitled. (Hilltop Group, Inc. v. County of San Diego (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 890, 911.) 
 
As you are well aware, California remains in the throes of a statewide crisis-level housing 
shortage. New housing such as this is a public benefit: it will provide badly needed affordable 
housing; it will increase the city’s tax base; it will bring new customers to local businesses; 
and it will reduce displacement of existing residents by reducing competition for existing 
housing. It will also provide important housing in the heart of Silicon Valley, a region that 
has seen an explosion of employment opportunities without the needed housing growth, 
resulting in crippling rent burdens and housing shortages. While no one project will solve 
the statewide housing crisis, the proposed development is a step in the right direction. 
CalHDF urges the City to approve it, consistent with its obligations under state law. 
 
 
2 of 3

--- page 612 ---
CalHDF is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation whose mission includes advocating for
increased access to housing for Californians at all income levels, including low-income
households. You may learn more about CalHDF at www.calhdforg.

Sincerely,

Dylan Casey
CalHDF Executive Director

James M. Lloyd
CalHDF Director of Planning and Investigations

3 of 3
