--- page 1 ---
Flock AI security cameras spark
concerns over privacy, misuse among
Gainesville residents
WUFT | By Alannah George
Published June 22, 2026 at 12:40 PM EDT
Alannah George/WUFT News
A Flock Safety camera located in Butler Plaza. These cameras differ visibly and in function from standard
ALPR cameras.
Sleek black devices well-hidden on high poles, around corners, or atop streetlights
dot the roads of towns and cities all over the country. Gainesville has become home
to hundreds of these devices, known as automatic license plate reader, or ALPR,
cameras, over the past few years. Most notably, those developed by Flock Safety.
Art Forgey, the Gainesville Police Department information officer, praised these
cameras for their crime-solving capabilities.
Donate

--- page 2 ---
Meanwhile, Dean Jordan, a 72-year-old fifth generation Gainesville native, said
they’re “beyond any Big Brother warning you've ever had in your life.”
Flock Safety, a private surveillance company providing technology to thousands of
law enforcement agencies across the country, manufactures cameras that extend
beyond the functionality of standard ALPRs. A typical toll, speed or red-light camera
takes note of license plate numbers that pass by or violate specific traffic laws, and
stores that data locally. Flock cameras, however, use artificial intelligence to take
note of all vehicles that pass them, their license plates, and any identifying features
such as scratches or dents before storing that data to a shared database, through
which police departments across the country can share and look up information.
“We’ve had license plate readers for 30 or more years,” Jordan said. “They’re not
that. What they really are is information gatherers. They have incredible abilities.”
In 2024, Gainesville City Commission approved a five-year contract between Flock
Safety and the GPD, granting Gainesville police 10 stationary Flock ALPR cameras
and access to the Flock software and shared database for those five years. The
contract costs 125,000 dollars, for five years, at 25,000 dollars per year. The money
came from the Federal Law Enforcement Contraband Forfeiture Trust Fund, a fund
consisting of assets seized or forfeited in criminal investigations. Florida law allows
this money to be used for crime prevention purposes.
While the GPD only owns 10 cameras, private companies throughout Gainesville
have also entered into agreements with Flock Safety and share the data they collect
with local law enforcement. Crowdsourced data mapping website deflock.org shows
over 100 of these cameras scattered throughout the city, most populated around the
University of Florida campus, Butler Plaza and along Archer Road, as well as more
dotted in towns around North Central Florida.
These cameras have sparked controversy throughout the country, and Gainesville is
no exception. Residents have taken to social media voicing their concerns about the
security and ethics behind advanced ALPRs.
Jordan is one of these residents.
“They’re not secure, and they are ripe for abuse,” he said.

--- page 3 ---
These are the fears voiced by many Gainesville citizens, and they aren’t unfounded.
An officer in Texas accessed over 80,000 ALPR cameras, nearly 7,000 of which were
Flock, to track a woman suspected of having an abortion across the country,
including in states like Washington, where abortion is legal.
A former police officer in California was found to have used Flock cameras to track a
woman he had previously had an affair with and her new romantic partners.
A woman in Colorado was falsely accused of theft and summoned to court after Flock
cameras identified her vehicle near the scene of the crime.
And possibly the most widespread issue was a breach that allowed anyone with
computer skills and easily accessible technology to hack into the live video feed of 60
Flock cameras across the country, giving them access to the live recording as well as
the previous 30 days’ worth of data. Many of these cameras were pointed at schools,
sidewalks and playgrounds.
Alannah George/WUFT News
A Flock Safety camera positioned outside an Aldi grocery store near Butler Plaza. Butler Plaza has the
highest concentration of reported ALPR cameras.
However, the cameras accessed in this breach were Flock’s Condor cameras, which
have facial recognition technology and the ability to pan, tilt and zoom. The cameras

--- page 4 ---
used by the GPD are Flock’s Falcon cameras, which are stationary and only record
data on vehicles.
Jordan referred to instances like these when voicing his concerns with Flock Safety.
Forgey, however, said these cameras are no different from any other forms of
surveillance Gainesville residents readily accept.
“We all know that when we're on a sidewalk walking down the street, or we're out on
a roadway, we have no expectation of privacy like we would in our home,” he said.
Data from the cameras is stored for 30 days, and GPD officers receive training from
Flock administrators, who also audit any searches performed. Flock cameras aren’t
doing anything more than snapping your picture in a public place, and if they’re
misused, that’s an issue with people, not with the cameras, he said.
“Just about any security camera out there anywhere can be hacked and be used for
nefarious reasons, and Flock being a computerized system is no different than
anybody else,” Forgey said.
Derek Bambauer, UF law professor and cybersecurity expert, is a little more
skeptical.
Flock cameras gather a large database, he said, and while some of the uses for that
database can be beneficial, others can be highly concerning.
The cameras are only used as a reactionary tool, Forgey said, meaning the GPD
doesn’t access the data they collect unless there is already suspicion of a crime
having been committed. However, once there is suspicion, no warrant is required to
access all of the available data on someone’s vehicle, wherever in the country they
may be.
Florida law enforcement agencies have been shown to access Flock’s nationwide
network of data for a variety of reasons. Reasons for searches have been listed most
frequently as stolen tags, armed disturbances, possession of illicit substances, and
more. But perhaps most concerning to Jordan, some searches have listed the
reasons “Assist ICE” and “immigration” on multiple occasions.

--- page 5 ---
This isn’t the first time local and state law enforcement agencies have been found
using Flock to informally assist Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, a
federal agency.
“The fourth amendment is violated every time these masked vigilantes rough
someone up,” Jordan said.
Despite the controversy, Forgey said the cameras’ benefits outweigh the risks. They
help solve cases that may have previously gone cold, and citizens just knowing
they’re out there deters crime, he said.
But Bambauer worries that isn’t all they deter.
Bambauer said he worries about cameras capturing cars outside of political protests,
abortion clinics or any other controversial location that could put the driver at risk of
repercussions.
“I think it means we have to be really cautious about the trade-offs that we make
between enhancing public safety versus not capturing too much information,” he
said.
To feel confident in the use of these cameras, Bambauer called for more
transparency from law enforcement agencies over who has access to the data they
collect and how exactly the technology works to obtain it, as well as legal constraints
placed on things like where and for how long data is stored, who can access it, and
what it’s used for.
“Data in some senses is neutral, but data can be put to a huge variety of purposes,”
he said. “And the only thing that really limits that right now is the imagination of the
user.”
Jordan had his own idea for how the city should handle the use of these devices.
“While I will forgive them for purchasing them, they need to get rid of them,” Jordan
said.

--- page 6 ---
Tags
Law and Public Safety
Gainesville
Gainesville Police Department
Alachua County
government
cars
Alannah George
Alannah is a reporter for WUFT News who can be reached by calling 352-392-6397 or emailing
news@wuft.org.
See stories by Alannah George

--- page 7 ---
Latest News Headlines
Alachua schools maintain grade, Marion slips, as state changes school
grading process

--- page 8 ---
What to expect at Fanfares and Fireworks 2026
New month, new laws: Here's what just went into effect in Florida
Stuart Bell confirmed as University of Florida's 14th president
Florida pushes police to step up immigration enforcement
From NPR News
Iran begins dayslong funeral for the late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei
Reflections on America's 250th birthday
After weeks of speculation, Taylor Swift, Travis Kelce wed in New York

--- page 9 ---
Stay Connected
WUFT-TV/FM | WJUF-FM
1200 Weimer Hall | P.O. Box 118405
Gainesville, FL 32611
(352) 392-5551
A service of the College of Journalism and Communications at the University of Florida.
© 2026 WUFT / Division of Media Properties
About
Contact Us
Iran's control of the Strait of Hormuz remains a powerful bargaining chip
A family steps in to save the dying casino town of Primm, Nevada
Subscribe to WUFT Weekly
 indicates required
Subscribe
*
Email Address *

--- page 10 ---
WUFT Station News
Membership
Sponsorship
Privacy Policy
Public Files and Records
WUFT FM FCC Public File
WUFT TV FCC Public File
WJUF FM FCC Public File
WUFQ FM FCC Public File
EEO Report
FCC Applications