Two Redwood City residents arrested in connection with Woodside home burglary - Redwood City Pulse Close Become a Member Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok Close Skip to content Redwood City Pulse Nonprofit local news for the Midpeninsula Become a Member Sign In Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Open Search Search for: Search Home » Two Redwood City residents arrested in connection with Woodside home burglary Posted in Crime Two Redwood City residents arrested in connection with Woodside home burglary by Jennifer Yoshikoshi 12 hours ago June 22, 2026 5:06 pm Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... The San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office announced the arrest of two Redwood City residents who are suspects in a Woodside home burglary. Photo by Magali Gauthier. The San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office arrested two suspects from Redwood City in connection with a residential burglary that occurred on June 13 in Woodside, according to a press release on June 22. Law enforcement officials used security footage and automated license plate readers to identify the suspects’ vehicles. The burglary occurred at a home on the 2100 block of Greenways Drive. The resident reported the incident two days later, on June 15. Home security footage showed the suspects entering the residence through the garage as they began to look through items. The video showed the burglars fleeing the home when the alarm system activated and no items were taken. Using the security footage and ALPR technology, deputies identified the vehicle and located it in the area of Twin Dolphin Drive in Redwood City on June 16. The suspects, ages 37 and 46, were arrested and booked into the Maguire Correctional Facility on suspicion of residential burglary. “While no property was stolen in this incident, the case underscores the value of home security systems,” according to the Sheriff’s Office. The Sheriff’s Office also offered the following tips: Ensure your home is well-lit and consider installing motion-sensor lights. Use a security system if you have one. Eliminate hiding spots by trimming bushes and trees near windows. When going out of town, hold your mail and deliveries or ask a neighbor to collect them. Do not advertise your absence or post about vacation plans on social media. For more information about the Sheriff’s Office vacation house checks visit tinyurl.com/SheriffVacationCheck . Report suspicious activity by calling the Sheriff’s Office at 650-363-4911 or 911 in an emergency. The Almanac does not publish the names of suspects before they have been formally charged with a crime. Support more reporting like this DONATE TODAY Since 2021, the Redwood City Pulse has delivered independent, community-focused journalism. Your donation helps our reporters continue covering the stories that matter most. Crime Most Popular Two Redwood City residents arrested in connection with Woodside home burglary 12 hours ago Redwood City School District regroups after parcel tax measure falls short June 21, 2026 4:03 pm Belmont-Redwood Shores names interim superintendent 18 hours ago Tagged: menlopark - san mateo county news , menlopark - top post - secondary , Print Ready , redwoodcity - san mateo county news , redwoodcity - top post - secondary Jennifer Yoshikoshi Staff Writer, The Almanac Jennifer Yoshikoshi joined The Almanac in 2024 as an education, Woodside and Portola Valley reporter. Jennifer started her journalism career in college radio and podcasting at UC Santa Barbara, where she... More by Jennifer Yoshikoshi Leave a comment This is the Comment policy text in the settings. Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Editor's Picks Two Redwood City residents arrested in connection with Woodside home burglary San Mateo County History Museum to open Tom Martinez sports exhibit Belmont-Redwood Shores names interim superintendent Redwood City School District regroups after parcel tax measure falls short New study measures microplastics in the Bay smaller than human hair Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Content Removal Policy Photo Usage Policy Employment Newsletters Express Weekend Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty News Alerts Place a Legal Notice Special Publications Membership FAQs Customer Service Make a one-time donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Spotlight © Copyright Embarcadero Media Foundation The Peninsula Palo Alto Online Redwood City Pulse Almanac News Mountain View Voice East Bay Livermore Vine Danville & San Ramon Pleasanton Weekly © 2026 Redwood City Pulse Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Go back Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Redwood City Pulse directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Breaking News Email Alerts Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty Weekend Express Local Scoop Editorial Features Marketing See all Continue You’ve read all free articles for the month. Register now and get five free articles every month. Register for free Gain unlimited access to the Redwood City Pulse . Become a Member Already have an account? Sign In . Trouble with your login information? Get help . Gift this article Close Link Copy link