Police say burglary rates are low in Atherton this year, and credit the town's theft-deterring tech - Redwood City Pulse Close Become a Member Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok Close Skip to content Redwood City Pulse Nonprofit local news for the Midpeninsula Become a Member Sign In Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Open Search Search for: Search Home » Police say burglary rates are low in Atherton this year, and credit the town’s theft-deterring tech Posted in Atherton , Crime , Express Newsletter Content Police say burglary rates are low in Atherton this year, and credit the town’s theft-deterring tech by Angela Swartz November 16, 2023 5:11 pm Updated January 21, 2025 10:12 am Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Calling all photographers! The 2025 Six Fifty Peninsula Photo Contest is now accepting submissions! Anyone who lives, works, or attends school in the 6-5-0 area code is eligible to enter. Both youth and adults are welcome. Learn More & Enter To keep the community in the know about home burglaries in town, Atherton police held what's become an annual community meeting on crime on Nov. 3. The main takeaway: burglaries haven't been eliminated in town, there have been fewer of them since new technology has debuted. So far there have been 17 burglaries in Atherton this year. The police department would like to keep that figure under 20 for 2023, police officials said during the meeting. The number of burglaries has dropped sharply since 2021 when there were 45 reported. In recent years, the town began installing Flock Safety automated license plate reader cameras (ALPRs). There are 47 cameras in town, 26 of which are funded by residents rather than the town budget. According to town officials, communities using Flock ALPRs reported a reduction in package and mail theft by up to 90%. Police Chief Steve McCulley credited the ALPR system for leading to the arrest of a suspect after a man was robbed of his watch at his home on Marsh Road in 2021. "Within two hours, they were IDed and one was placed under arrest," he said. The readers are able to capture more details about a vehicle than just the license plate, including the color, brand and whether its a car, truck or motorcycle. It also captures pedestrians, bicycles and animals. "These are the details we often need to take the next step in solving a case," McCulley said. A Flock license plate reader in Ladera on Nov. 9, 2023. License plate readers have been cropping up all over the Peninsula. Photo by Angela Swartz. In 2022, there were 252 ALPR alerts in town, a mix of stolen vehicle alerts, Amber Alerts and hits on wanted people, according to police. This year, Atherton also added the Paladin Nighthawk drone to its police force, which can fly out and gather real-time information during burglaries, and also be used for missing person cases, disaster response, traffic accidents, active shooter situations and more. The last burglary reported in town was on Oct. 25 when three burglars broke a front glass door and entered a home on Ridgeview Drive. Modus operandi for burglaries in town During the meeting, police shared the commonalities in many of the burglaries in town: • Window or door smashed on first or second floor • Entry through open doors and windows • Burglar alarms not activated • Minimal to no exterior lighting Common items taken this year include safes, jewelry, wallets, gift cards, keys, gate openers, purses, power tools, credit cards, cash, bicycles and cars. Police noted that one obstacle for preventing burglaries is that smashed windows don't usually trip alarm systems. Alarm system sensors are often attached to the window itself and set up to detect if a window or door is opened. Master bedrooms, where a lot of residents keep their safes and jewelry, don't often have cameras or motion sensors for privacy and convenience. This makes them easier for intruders to access, police said. Residents also don't always turn on alarm systems because they think they're inconvenient, but they should do so if they want to prevent break-ins, police said. Support more reporting like this DONATE TODAY Since 2021, the Redwood City Pulse has delivered independent, community-focused journalism. Your donation helps our reporters continue covering the stories that matter most. Atherton , Crime , Express Newsletter Content Most Popular Stanford donates land in Redwood City for free cancer patient lodging September 10, 2026 10:36 am How to prepare for California’s new fire-smart landscaping guidelines September 11, 2026 2:34 pm Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl September 11, 2026 9:17 am Angela Swartz Editor, The Almanac Angela Swartz was The Almanac's editor from 2023 until 2025. She joined The Almanac as a reporter in 2018. She previously reported on youth and education, and the towns of Atherton, Portola Valley and... More by Angela Swartz Leave a comment This is the Comment policy text in the settings. Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Editor's Picks San Mateo County sheriff’s deputy seeks mental health diversion in Livermore child abuse case Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl ‘Never forget, be ready’: Remembering 9/11, 25 years later Parent group calls for Sequoia high school district superintendent to be fired Man accused in fatal assault pleads not guilty in death of his Menlo Park friend Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ethics Policy Content Removal Policy Photo Usage Policy Employment Newsletters Express Weekend Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty News Alerts Place a Legal Notice Special Publications Membership FAQs Customer Service Make a one-time donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Spotlight © Copyright Embarcadero Media Foundation The Peninsula Palo Alto Online Redwood City Pulse Almanac News Mountain View Voice East Bay Livermore Vine Danville & San Ramon Pleasanton Weekly © 2026 Redwood City Pulse Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Redwood City Pulse directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Breaking News Email Alerts Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty Weekend Express Local Scoop Editorial Features Marketing See all Continue You’ve read all free articles for the month. Register now and get five free articles every month. Register for free Gain unlimited access to the Redwood City Pulse . Become a Member Already have an account? Sign In . Trouble with your login information? Get help . Gift this article Close Link Copy link