Atherton officer involved in the arrest of M-A student also named in lawsuit over ‘unreasonable seizure’ and use of ‘excessive force’ - Redwood City Pulse Close Become a Member Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok Close Skip to content Redwood City Pulse Nonprofit local news for the Midpeninsula Become a Member Sign In Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Open Search Search for: Search Home » Atherton officer involved in the arrest of M-A student also named in lawsuit over ‘unreasonable seizure’ and use of ‘excessive force’ Posted in Atherton , Express Newsletter Content , News , Police Atherton officer involved in the arrest of M-A student also named in lawsuit over ‘unreasonable seizure’ and use of ‘excessive force’ The lawsuit was settled in 2023 for $45,000 by Jennifer Yoshikoshi February 12, 2024 3:19 pm Updated February 16, 2024 5:18 pm Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... One of the officers implicated in last year’s viral arrest of a Menlo-Atherton High School student, which led to a federal lawsuit last month, was involved in a 2022 lawsuit against the Atherton Police Department for “unreasonable seizure and use of excessive force,” records show. The department settled with the plaintiff on the case in 2023 for $45,000. Jason David Burkleo filed a lawsuit on Oct. 2, 2022, against three police officers, including Officer Joshua Gatto, one of the Atherton police officers involved in the M-A lawsuit , for mistakenly identifying his vehicle plates for those of a stolen car, leading officers to wrongfully seize Burkleo, according to court documents. Burkleo-v-Taylor-Amended-Complaint Download Calling all photographers! The 2025 Six Fifty Peninsula Photo Contest is now accepting submissions! Anyone who lives, works, or attends school in the 6-5-0 area code is eligible to enter. Both youth and adults are welcome. Learn More & Enter At about 5:30 a.m. on April 16, 2021, an automatic license plate reader (ALPR) had misread Burkleo’s obscured plates and matched them to the ones of a reported stolen vehicle. The dirt on Burkleo’s plates caused the ALPR to read the “H’s” of the license plate as “M’s.” Atherton police followed the vehicle for several minutes but failed to visually verify what the ALPR had falsely captured, according to the suit. Atherton, like neighboring towns, installed license plate readers in recent years to deter crime and track down burglary suspects. “Since at least 2010, it has been well-known that ALPRs misread license-plate numbers or letters and generate false-positive hits,” the 2022 suit states. “For this reason, before conducting any law enforcement action based on an ALPR hit, generally accepted law-enforcement standards and training require officers to visually verify the license plate of the car they are following and contemplating pulling over to ensure that the numbers and characters of the license plate match those of the license plate in the ALPR hit.” With the belief that they were pursuing a “high-risk felony stop,” police pulled Burkleo over and ordered him at gunpoint to throw his keys out of the window, get out of the car, and lie on his stomach to be handcuffed. Burkelo, who at the time was a security consultant for clients in the vicinity of Atherton, had filed this lawsuit for the “wrongful seizure, use of excessive force, and arrest without probable cause,” according to the suit. Records show that the case was settled on March 16, 2023, for $45,000. In the settlement, Burkleo agreed to release any claims presented in the lawsuit and to “never institute or reinstitute in the future any complaints, suit, action or cause of action, in law or in equity, against the [Atherton Police Department].” RELEASE-AND-SETTLEMENT-AGREEMENT-BURKLEO-FULLY-EXECUTED Download Burkleo-v-Taylor-Dismissal-upon-settlement Download The Atherton Police Department declined to comment on past or pending lawsuits, including the suit from 2022. In a legal response to Burkleo’s complaints, the Atherton police officers denied all allegations, as well as the injuries that Burkleo mentioned in the complaint. Officers allege that any damages were caused by the “carelessness and negligence ” of Burkleo. Officers also stated that they are entitled to qualified immunity as they didn’t violate any clearly established constitutional right, and any actions taken were “undertaken in good faith with the reasonable belief that said actions were valid, necessary, and constitutionally proper,” according to a response filed on June 13, 2022. In a following response filed on Oct. 27, 2022, the Atherton Police Department also wrote that they believe that Burkleo “waited an unreasonable period before making any claims,” as the incident had occurred in April 2021. This news organization has reached out to the police department to clarify what an “unreasonable period” of time constitutes. Support more reporting like this DONATE TODAY Since 2021, the Redwood City Pulse has delivered independent, community-focused journalism. Your donation helps our reporters continue covering the stories that matter most. Atherton , Express Newsletter Content , News , Police Most Popular Stanford donates land in Redwood City for free cancer patient lodging September 10, 2026 10:36 am How to prepare for California’s new fire-smart landscaping guidelines September 11, 2026 2:34 pm Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl September 11, 2026 9:17 am Tagged: menlopark - top post - primary , menlopark - top post - secondary , Print Ready , redwoodcity - top post - primary , redwoodcity - top post - secondary Jennifer Yoshikoshi Staff Writer, The Almanac Jennifer Yoshikoshi joined The Almanac in 2024 as an education, Woodside and Portola Valley reporter. Jennifer started her journalism career in college radio and podcasting at UC Santa Barbara, where she... More by Jennifer Yoshikoshi Leave a comment This is the Comment policy text in the settings. Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Editor's Picks San Mateo County sheriff’s deputy seeks mental health diversion in Livermore child abuse case Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl ‘Never forget, be ready’: Remembering 9/11, 25 years later Parent group calls for Sequoia high school district superintendent to be fired Man accused in fatal assault pleads not guilty in death of his Menlo Park friend Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ethics Policy Content Removal Policy Photo Usage Policy Employment Newsletters Express Weekend Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty News Alerts Place a Legal Notice Special Publications Membership FAQs Customer Service Make a one-time donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Spotlight © Copyright Embarcadero Media Foundation The Peninsula Palo Alto Online Redwood City Pulse Almanac News Mountain View Voice East Bay Livermore Vine Danville & San Ramon Pleasanton Weekly © 2026 Redwood City Pulse Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Redwood City Pulse directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Breaking News Email Alerts Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty Weekend Express Local Scoop Editorial Features Marketing See all Continue You’ve read all free articles for the month. Register now and get five free articles every month. Register for free Gain unlimited access to the Redwood City Pulse . Become a Member Already have an account? Sign In . Trouble with your login information? Get help . Gift this article Close Link Copy link