Amid burglary concerns, Woodside will install license plate readers in town - Redwood City Pulse Close Become a Member Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok Close Skip to content Redwood City Pulse Nonprofit local news for the Midpeninsula Become a Member Sign In Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Open Search Search for: Search Home » Amid burglary concerns, Woodside will install license plate readers in town Posted in Express Newsletter Content Amid burglary concerns, Woodside will install license plate readers in town Based on public feedback, council members said there was an even split among residents who wanted the ALPRs and those who did not. by Angela Swartz July 28, 2022 9:00 pm Updated March 25, 2024 1:38 am Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Calling all photographers! The 2025 Six Fifty Peninsula Photo Contest is now accepting submissions! Anyone who lives, works, or attends school in the 6-5-0 area code is eligible to enter. Both youth and adults are welcome. Learn More & Enter Twenty automated license plate readers will be installed around Woodside despite concerns from some residents that the amount of crime does not warrant the privacy they'll lose by installing the readers. Woodside is planning to install automated license plate readers throughout the town in order to deter crime and track criminal activity. Information courtesy town of Woodside/Map by Kristin Brown The Town Council voted 5-0, with Sean Scott absent, to sign an agreement with Flock Safety for $61,100 on Tuesday, July 26. Woodside joins neighboring towns, like Atherton (which uses Flock), Menlo Park, Redwood City and Portola Valley, that have added the readers in recent years. Automated license plate readers (ALPRs) are mounted on police cars or on fixtures such as road signs and bridges. "I reluctantly support (this) with the caveat that we continue to negotiate an agreement with Flock and finalize our privacy policy," said Council member Jenn Wall. "It's really important the council and staff take the privacy concerns seriously." Based on public feedback, council members said there was an even split among residents who wanted the ALPRs and those who did not. One resident, Andrew Howard, pointed town officials to a March 2022 American Civil Liberties Union report that calls out Flock for building a mass surveillance system. The report notes "a proliferation of cameras and widespread sharing allow for the creation of intrusive records of our comings and goings, create chilling effects, and open the door to abusive tracking. And the scale of what Flock is doing goes far beyond what was contemplated when ALPRs first arrived on the scene." Burglaries trigger request for cameras Initially the town considered a pilot project with the readers in the Woodside Hills neighborhood, east of Interstate Highway 280, where there have been recent attempted home burglaries and burglaries. But they heard from residents throughout town that they'd like cameras installed as well. In Woodside Hills, there was a burglary on the 600 block of Woodside Drive on June 18 and a burglary on the 200 Block of Ridgeway Road on June 3, according to the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office police blotter. One neighbor told the council last month that installing the readers would help give residents peace of mind. "We don't know how many crimes are deterred because of license plate readers," said Woodside Hills resident Sue Sweeney. "That's something that cannot be measured. But even if you deter a couple a year, it will make a huge difference. But for someone like (my neighbor), whose house they tried to break into, it's terrifying." The readers have helped the San Mateo County Sheriff's Office solve a series of burglaries in Ladera, Lt. Mark Myers told the council. The readers helped officers discover the burglars were renting cars from a company in Vallejo. "What they would do is every five or six days, they would go around the Bay Area committing burglaries and then go back to the rental car place and change the car out," he explained to the council at a June meeting. "So we were actually able, by using ALPR identify that car, and then go and talk to the rental agency, and then we were able to actually find out when they were re-upping or getting the new car. And then we were able to eventually locate and chase them." Other privacy concerns, actual effectiveness Brian Hofer, executive director of Secure Justice , an Oakland-based nonprofit that advocates against state abuse of power and for reduction in government and corporate overreach, told the council in June that he fears Woodside has no way to gauge the effectiveness of the readers. "If you come back next year and say, 'Oh, look, you know, we had 100 hits on these license plate readers,' it's meaningless," he said. "You don't have a baseline of data today to compare. Next year, the reporting provision, just capturing the hits and queries, isn't going to tell you the results. Did it actually lead to a stolen recovered vehicle or a witness or an Amber Alert? Did you actually locate suspects for violent crimes? I would encourage you to look at a more robust annual reporting mechanism if you move forward." He said he worked with the city of Alameda on creating a detailed annual ALPR policy. Hofer also encouraged the council to go with the 30-day retention limit on the collected data, which the town ultimately did. Myers recommended a longer retention period, of about three months, because if people go on vacation for an extended period of time by the time they report it, the footage could be close to being deleted. Or, if there are a series of burglaries police are investigating, and police get a lead on a suspect, it's difficult for them to link cases if the footage is gone. "The privacy invasiveness comes from the accumulation of data," Hofer said. "An easy way to mitigate that concern is to have a shorter retention period so that you don't have multiple data points. That's how you track people in playing the patterns and association. … So although I do not endorse surveillance tech vendors I have been impressed with Flock. During these few years where they've been expanding into this market, my primary concern is that you have no way to gauge effectiveness." More on the plans The council directed staff to create quarterly updates on the Flock cameras in town. The town received six responses to the request for proposals. The town can continue the agreement at $52,500 annually if it chooses. by Photo by Veronica Weber. Support more reporting like this DONATE TODAY Since 2021, the Redwood City Pulse has delivered independent, community-focused journalism. Your donation helps our reporters continue covering the stories that matter most. Express Newsletter Content Most Popular Stanford donates land in Redwood City for free cancer patient lodging September 10, 2026 10:36 am How to prepare for California’s new fire-smart landscaping guidelines September 11, 2026 2:34 pm Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl September 11, 2026 9:17 am Angela Swartz Editor, The Almanac Angela Swartz was The Almanac's editor from 2023 until 2025. She joined The Almanac as a reporter in 2018. She previously reported on youth and education, and the towns of Atherton, Portola Valley and... More by Angela Swartz Leave a comment This is the Comment policy text in the settings. Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Editor's Picks San Mateo County sheriff’s deputy seeks mental health diversion in Livermore child abuse case Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl ‘Never forget, be ready’: Remembering 9/11, 25 years later Parent group calls for Sequoia high school district superintendent to be fired Man accused in fatal assault pleads not guilty in death of his Menlo Park friend Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ethics Policy Content Removal Policy Photo Usage Policy Employment Newsletters Express Weekend Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty News Alerts Place a Legal Notice Special Publications Membership FAQs Customer Service Make a one-time donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Spotlight © Copyright Embarcadero Media Foundation The Peninsula Palo Alto Online Redwood City Pulse Almanac News Mountain View Voice East Bay Livermore Vine Danville & San Ramon Pleasanton Weekly © 2026 Redwood City Pulse Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Redwood City Pulse directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Breaking News Email Alerts Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty Weekend Express Local Scoop Editorial Features Marketing See all Continue You’ve read all free articles for the month. Register now and get five free articles every month. Register for free Gain unlimited access to the Redwood City Pulse . Become a Member Already have an account? Sign In . Trouble with your login information? Get help . Gift this article Close Link Copy link