Menlo Park neighborhood implores action against spate of burglaries - Redwood City Pulse Close Become a Member Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok Close Skip to content Redwood City Pulse Nonprofit local news for the Midpeninsula Become a Member Sign In Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Open Search Search for: Search Home » Menlo Park neighborhood implores action against spate of burglaries Posted in Crime Menlo Park neighborhood implores action against spate of burglaries by Neil Gonzales February 20, 2024 9:54 am Updated July 14, 2025 3:12 pm Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... A Menlo Park Police Department car parked on Laurel Street near the police station on Dec. 1, 2023. Photo by Andrea Gemmet. A recent rash of burglaries has unsettled, upset and frustrated residents of the Sharon Heights neighborhood in Menlo Park, and they have implored the city for help. “We are in the middle of a wave of home burglaries in Sharon Heights,” resident Jacqueline Wender said in an email to The Almanac. “Home burglaries are a problem throughout the city and the entire region, but right now, Sharon Heights is getting hit really hard.” The level of worry in the neighborhood has reached a point where more than 100 residents recently gathered at a community meeting to lay their concerns in front of police and city leaders and ask for what can be done, including the possibility of employing automatic license plate recognition (ALPR) technology despite the issue of privacy. The affluent, lush-landscaped neighborhood with a golf and country club has experienced more than a dozen burglaries in a little over a month. According to police, 14 break-ins occurred from Jan. 4 to Feb. 12. No arrests had been made. One of those break-ins happened Feb. 10, the day of the community meeting attended by about 125 residents and police and city representatives, such as Cmdr. William Dixon, Mayor Cecilia Taylor and Council member Maria Doerr, in the auditorium of St. Bede’s Episcopal Church on Sand Hill Road. The Sharon Heights Community Association arranged the meeting in partnership with Doerr, who represents the neighborhood in western Menlo Park along Interstate 280 and Sand Hill Road. The association also wrote a letter to the council, summing up the meeting. Calling all photographers! The 2025 Six Fifty Peninsula Photo Contest is now accepting submissions! Anyone who lives, works, or attends school in the 6-5-0 area code is eligible to enter. Both youth and adults are welcome. Learn More & Enter “None of us wants to live in an atmosphere of fear as many of us are now experiencing as to the safety of our families and homes because of the surge in break-ins,” the association said in the Feb. 13 letter. “In view of the rising number of break-ins, how does our council propose to protect and serve our residents?” ‘None of us wants to live in an atmosphere of fear as many of us are now experiencing as to the safety of our families and homes because of the surge in break-ins.’ Feb. 13 Sharon Heights Community Association letter The letter signed by association members Maya Sewald, Brian Kissel, Cat Carlton and Derek Marsano raised the idea for the council to pursue ALPR as a tool to help combat crime. Other nearby jurisdictions such as Atherton and Woodside have already installed the camera system that identifies vehicles of possible suspects in crimes. In September, the Menlo Park council studied tech company Flock Safety ’s ALPR system with gunshot-detection capability but held off moving in that direction, citing privacy, cost and other issues. However, the association said in the letter, “prioritizing safety and security over privacy seems to be an obvious choice” given the recent burglaries and other crimes. The association urged the council to ensure the neighborhood’s safety by keeping police fully funded, which it said could lead to deploying crime-fighting tech such as ALPR, hiring additional officers for patrols, establishing community-watch programs or exploring other initiatives. The association acknowledged that Menlo Park needs to balance resources across numerous objectives but argued that residents’ safety and protection of their property should be near if not the top of the city’s priorities. “We encourage the council to move quickly to determine and implement the most cost-effective solutions to address the increased crime in our community,” the association said. “We don’t want Menlo Park to become an easy target for home break-ins and other crime among cities on the Peninsula.” Doerr told this publication that the city is responding to the residents’ concerns. “I’m very concerned about the break-ins in our community,” she said. “The police are doing their best to investigate these occurrences and doing extra patrols.” ALPR remains on the table, she added. The council has not taken any formal decision against the system, she said. “The conversation is ongoing.” Police Chief David Norris agreed, telling The Almanac that his department will bring the matter back to the council at a certain point. A woman watches ducks swim by at the duck pond in the Sharon Heights neighborhood of Menlo Park on July 15, 2020. Photo by Magali Gauthier. Many cities in San Mateo County and Palo Alto already use ALPRs, he said, but “we’re not looking to jump into Flock cameras just because all of the other agencies are using them. We are looking to get into Flock ALPR cameras because they are an effective crime-solving tool and crime-prevention tool.” Flock ALPRs are installed in Atherton, Woodside and Portola Valley. With or without ALPR, he said, police are taking the burglaries in Sharon Heights seriously and investigating them accordingly. “Any crime that occurs anywhere in the city is of concern to us,” Norris said. “When someone has their home broken into, that can be a particularly difficult and nerve-wracking experience for the people in that residence.” He added: “We are very interested in bringing the people who are responsible to justice, and we are using all of our available tools as well as working in a team environment with other agencies that are experiencing similar problems to try and identify the people responsible and to get them held to account.” Just late last week, several residential burglaries (a third was reported on Lupin Lane on Friday evening, Feb. 16) in Atherton were reported in as many days. Menlo Park police are also spreading crime-prevention tips to residents, department spokesperson Nicole Acker said. Those include making sure their doors are locked, installing a home-alarm system and improving lighting around their property. Support more reporting like this DONATE TODAY Since 2021, the Redwood City Pulse has delivered independent, community-focused journalism. Your donation helps our reporters continue covering the stories that matter most. Crime Most Popular Stanford donates land in Redwood City for free cancer patient lodging September 10, 2026 10:36 am How to prepare for California’s new fire-smart landscaping guidelines September 11, 2026 2:34 pm Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl September 11, 2026 9:17 am Tagged: menlopark - top post - primary , Print Ready , redwoodcity - top post - primary , redwoodcity - top post - secondary Leave a comment This is the Comment policy text in the settings. Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Editor's Picks San Mateo County sheriff’s deputy seeks mental health diversion in Livermore child abuse case Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl ‘Never forget, be ready’: Remembering 9/11, 25 years later Parent group calls for Sequoia high school district superintendent to be fired Man accused in fatal assault pleads not guilty in death of his Menlo Park friend Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ethics Policy Content Removal Policy Photo Usage Policy Employment Newsletters Express Weekend Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty News Alerts Place a Legal Notice Special Publications Membership FAQs Customer Service Make a one-time donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Spotlight © Copyright Embarcadero Media Foundation The Peninsula Palo Alto Online Redwood City Pulse Almanac News Mountain View Voice East Bay Livermore Vine Danville & San Ramon Pleasanton Weekly © 2026 Redwood City Pulse Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Redwood City Pulse directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Breaking News Email Alerts Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty Weekend Express Local Scoop Editorial Features Marketing See all Continue You’ve read all free articles for the month. Register now and get five free articles every month. Register for free Gain unlimited access to the Redwood City Pulse . Become a Member Already have an account? Sign In . Trouble with your login information? Get help . Gift this article Close Link Copy link