Menlo Park moves to forge agreement for expanded crime-tracking program - Redwood City Pulse Close Become a Member Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok Close Skip to content Redwood City Pulse Nonprofit local news for the Midpeninsula Become a Member Sign In Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Open Search Search for: Search Home » Menlo Park moves to forge agreement for expanded crime-tracking program Posted in Menlo Park Menlo Park moves to forge agreement for expanded crime-tracking program by Neil Gonzales October 10, 2024 1:39 pm Updated July 3, 2025 10:16 am Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... A Menlo Park Police vehicle parked near the police department on Aug. 12, 2024. Photo by Anna Hoch-Kenney. Menlo Park will work to forge an agreement with technology company Flock Safety for the expanded adoption of the somewhat-controversial automated license plate readers (ALPRs) to help catch suspects in crimes. In a 3-1 vote Tuesday night, Oct. 8, the City Council authorized executing an agreement for Flock to provide and operate 35 fixed ALPR cameras in Menlo Park for at least two years. First-year costs are pegged at $133,000 — of which $20,500 would be covered by grant funding, according to a city staff report. Ongoing annual costs would amount to $112,500. Mayor Cecilia Taylor, Vice Mayor Drew Combs and Council member Jen Wolosin voted for working toward an agreement with Flock and amending the city’s public-safety code accordingly. Council member Betsy Nash dissented. Council member Maria Doerr was absent. The council’s decision this week followed up on the one in May that already moved the ALPR proposal forward as a program that could be renewed after the two-year run. Also, Menlo Park’s 2024-25 budget adopted in June accounted for the potential launch of the program. Sharon Heights residents Maya Sewald and Derek Marsano, whose neighborhood had called for the expansion of ALPRs after that area endured a rash of burglaries early this year, urged the council Tuesday to advance the technology’s use throughout the city. “Crime is a major concern not just in Sharon Heights but in all of Menlo Park,” Sewald said, addressing the council before its vote. “We continue to be concerned by ongoing burglaries in our community,” Marsano told the council. “The wave of crime that we’ve seen beginning earlier in this year has abated somewhat. But there are still continued incidents, and we continue to be very concerned about safety in our homes.” Calling all photographers! The 2025 Six Fifty Peninsula Photo Contest is now accepting submissions! Anyone who lives, works, or attends school in the 6-5-0 area code is eligible to enter. Both youth and adults are welcome. Learn More & Enter Marsano noted that neighboring municipalities such as Atherton, Woodside and Portola Valley have more extensively taken advantage of ALPRs and argued that not similarly doing so would be an incentive for criminals to keep trying their luck in Menlo Park. “We’re cognizant of the fact that nearly all of our surrounding communities have employed this or similar technology and are having good results in both deterring crime and also apprehending suspects after a crime has been committed,” he said. “We think that without this technology in an area in which we are surrounded by communities that have deployed the technology we are simply inviting more crime into our neighborhoods.” Lizbeth King, who lives near Sharon Heights, concurred. “We need to fortify our police force with every mechanism we can that the surrounding communities already have, so there is not a hole in what has become a web of protection on the Peninsula,” King said, addressing the council. ‘We need to fortify our police force with every mechanism we can that the surrounding communities already have, so there is not a hole in what has become a web of protection on the Peninsula.’ Lizbeth King, menlo park resident King also vouched for the efficacy of ALPRs as her private street has a stationary camera reader that traced robbers who broke into her home while her family was present during the holidays late last year. “I was robbed on 12/28/23 and was home in bed with my whole family,” she said in an email to The Almanac. “We provided the footage to MPPD. It is also directly linked to all local police departments through Flock.” King told this publication that her family gave money to her homeowners association to buy the device for her street in the spring of 2023. She believes her street’s reader is the city’s first and only fixed ALPR currently. “The camera in my neighborhood was able to track down the criminals who invaded my home and track them on their route to the East Bay,” King told the council. “So I say to you that not only will it be a deterrent, but when used and used appropriately by our police force, which I can advocate that they have done it, it’s effective.” Right now, Menlo Park police has mobile ALPRs on three patrol vehicles. The department has had that technology for the past decade. Menlo Park resident Randy Avalos, however, contended that the use of ALPRs could lead to a violation of the Fourth Amendment, which guards against unreasonable searches and seizures and sets warrant requirements. “Because Flock data records place and time, movement may be deduced, which constitutes a search, which then requires a warrant,” Avalos told the council. “So we should require a warrant for using the system. If that’s not tenable, then the system should not be used. A warrant requirement provides a reasoned check-and-balance that is fundamental to law and governance.” In voting against the ALPR expansion, Nash cited privacy and other concerns. “We still have not seen data that ALPRs reduce residential burglaries or crime in general,” Nash said. “They are an investigative tool. Meanwhile, we have seen the bad guys finding easy ways around these cameras. Second, I continue to worry about residents’ privacy rights and the security of data captured and shared with this technology.” Police Chief David Norris told this publication in an email that he is committed to a continuous review of the ALPR program “to ensure its usefulness is in line with the city’s investment.” The city seeks to ensure that the program remains “an objective, useful and fairly applied tool that balances privacy needs with the safety of our residents and daily visiting population,” Norris also said. The signing of the agreement with Flock and a meeting to launch the program are expected in the coming weeks, the chief said. “Our goal is to be up and running as soon as practical.” As for where the ALPRs would be placed, he said, “we will be doing our very best to cover as many ingress and egress points as possible and coordinating with camera locations in our neighboring jurisdictions to eliminate duplication. Exact locations will not be publicly provided though when they are installed they will be plainly visible to the public.” In other business Tuesday, the council approved authorizing the city to apply for continued grant funding from the state Department of Education for the Belle Haven Child Development Center. Menlo Park would become eligible to receive up to $2.3 million in direct reimbursements from the state to offset the costs of the center’s operations based on a maximum enrollment of 96 children in fiscal year 2025-26, according to a city staff report. Support more reporting like this DONATE TODAY Since 2021, the Redwood City Pulse has delivered independent, community-focused journalism. Your donation helps our reporters continue covering the stories that matter most. Menlo Park Most Popular Stanford donates land in Redwood City for free cancer patient lodging September 10, 2026 10:36 am How to prepare for California’s new fire-smart landscaping guidelines September 11, 2026 2:34 pm Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl September 11, 2026 9:17 am Tagged: menlopark - city news , menlopark - top post - secondary , Print Ready , redwoodcity - san mateo county news , redwoodcity - top post - secondary Leave a comment This is the Comment policy text in the settings. Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Editor's Picks San Mateo County sheriff’s deputy seeks mental health diversion in Livermore child abuse case Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl ‘Never forget, be ready’: Remembering 9/11, 25 years later Parent group calls for Sequoia high school district superintendent to be fired Man accused in fatal assault pleads not guilty in death of his Menlo Park friend Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ethics Policy Content Removal Policy Photo Usage Policy Employment Newsletters Express Weekend Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty News Alerts Place a Legal Notice Special Publications Membership FAQs Customer Service Make a one-time donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Spotlight © Copyright Embarcadero Media Foundation The Peninsula Palo Alto Online Redwood City Pulse Almanac News Mountain View Voice East Bay Livermore Vine Danville & San Ramon Pleasanton Weekly © 2026 Redwood City Pulse Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Redwood City Pulse directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Breaking News Email Alerts Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty Weekend Express Local Scoop Editorial Features Marketing See all Continue You’ve read all free articles for the month. Register now and get five free articles every month. Register for free Gain unlimited access to the Redwood City Pulse . Become a Member Already have an account? Sign In . Trouble with your login information? Get help . Gift this article Close Link Copy link