San Mateo County grand jury calls for stronger oversight for license plate readers - Redwood City Pulse Close Become a Member Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok Close Skip to content Redwood City Pulse Nonprofit local news for the Midpeninsula Become a Member Sign In Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Open Search Search for: Search Home » San Mateo County grand jury calls for stronger oversight for license plate readers Posted in News San Mateo County grand jury calls for stronger oversight for license plate readers Privacy watchdogs raise concerns over federal agencies’ access to ALPR data by Bay City News Service August 6, 2026 1:07 pm August 6, 2026 4:02 pm Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... An automated license plate reader at Whiskey Hill Road and Woodside Road in Woodside on Jan. 29, 2024. Photo by Angela Swartz. The San Mateo County Civil Grand Jury released a report this week calling for stricter oversight for law enforcement agencies’ use of automated license plate reader cameras. Police departments use the ALPR cameras to investigate crimes like stolen vehicles. But privacy watchdogs have raised concerns about federal agencies being able to access the camera data — a potential violation of state law — and using it for targeted surveillance of immigrants and other vulnerable groups. Over the last few months, many Bay Area cities and counties have been reexamining their contracts with Flock Safety, the manufacturer of these cameras, considering the federal administration’s crackdown on immigrants and the company’s checkered record of sharing ALPR data with federal agencies like U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Calling all photographers! The 2025 Six Fifty Peninsula Photo Contest is now accepting submissions! Anyone who lives, works, or attends school in the 6-5-0 area code is eligible to enter. Both youth and adults are welcome. Learn More & Enter For its report released Aug. 3, the Civil Grand Jury, comprising 19 volunteer members, reviewed publicly available information about ALPR use published by 18 law enforcement agencies in the county, including the San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office. They also examined contracts, policy documents, and audit reports from each agency, and conducted interviews with officers and Flock Safety representatives. California’s civil grand jury system provides independent investigations into issues in counties and is composed of residents who select which areas or problems they want to explore. The jury creates its report and then requires leaders such as boards of supervisors, city councils or city or county departments to respond. The report noted that the county’s law enforcement agencies have made improvements in the operation of the ALPR cameras, but many policy documents governing their use are deficient or in need of revision. Also, though the agencies were vigilant about not sharing ALPR data with out-of-state agencies, there remain inconsistencies in their audit procedures. “Most operators did not document criteria, process, or controls governing in-state sharing in a manner sufficient to demonstrate compliance with law,” the report said. For example, California law requires that law enforcement agencies only share ALPR data with other public agencies in the state. However, all but one of the 18 law enforcement agencies shared data with private university security departments without establishing whether that entity qualified as a public agency. A lack of established criteria for in-state data sharing and insufficient compliance language in contracts with Flock Safety were other common issues identified across agencies. Police departments from Menlo Park and Atherton are among those that accidentally let out-of-state agencies tap into their Flock license plate reader systems, while Redwood City is under pressure to drop Flock as its vendor as it seeks a new contract for APLR services this fall. San Mateo County Sheriff Ken Binder and all local city councils in the county will be required to respond to the report. “The Sheriff’s Office is committed to ensuring the technology is being used for its intended purpose and has a strict ALPR policy governing its use,” a spokesperson for the San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office said in an email statement. “Compliance is verified through periodic audits conducted by the Sheriff’s Office personnel.” This story was written by Tanay Gokhale for Bay City News. Support more reporting like this DONATE TODAY Since 2021, the Redwood City Pulse has delivered independent, community-focused journalism. Your donation helps our reporters continue covering the stories that matter most. News Most Popular Stanford donates land in Redwood City for free cancer patient lodging September 10, 2026 10:36 am How to prepare for California’s new fire-smart landscaping guidelines September 11, 2026 2:34 pm Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl September 11, 2026 9:17 am Tagged: menlopark - san mateo county news , menlopark - top post - primary , menlopark - top post - secondary , Print Ready , redwoodcity - san mateo county news , redwoodcity - top post - secondary Leave a comment This is the Comment policy text in the settings. Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Editor's Picks San Mateo County sheriff’s deputy seeks mental health diversion in Livermore child abuse case Redwood City Library Foundation hosts 5th annual Upscale Pub Crawl ‘Never forget, be ready’: Remembering 9/11, 25 years later Parent group calls for Sequoia high school district superintendent to be fired Man accused in fatal assault pleads not guilty in death of his Menlo Park friend Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ethics Policy Content Removal Policy Photo Usage Policy Employment Newsletters Express Weekend Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty News Alerts Place a Legal Notice Special Publications Membership FAQs Customer Service Make a one-time donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Spotlight © Copyright Embarcadero Media Foundation The Peninsula Palo Alto Online Redwood City Pulse Almanac News Mountain View Voice East Bay Livermore Vine Danville & San Ramon Pleasanton Weekly © 2026 Redwood City Pulse Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Sign in or register Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Verify your email Close We'll send a verification code to %EMAIL% . Send code Skip for now Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Redwood City Pulse directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Breaking News Email Alerts Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty Weekend Express Local Scoop Editorial Features Marketing See all Continue You’ve read all free articles for the month. Register now and get five free articles every month. Register for free Gain unlimited access to the Redwood City Pulse . Become a Member Already have an account? Sign In . Trouble with your login information? Get help . Gift this article Close Link Copy link