Redwood City to review street camera program ahead of contract renewal - Redwood City Pulse Close Become a Member Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok Close Skip to content Redwood City Pulse Nonprofit local news for the Midpeninsula Become a Member Sign In Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Open Search Search for: Search Home » Redwood City to review street camera program ahead of contract renewal Posted in Police Redwood City to review street camera program ahead of contract renewal City operates 25 cameras, conducted 367 searches in 30 days and says safeguards comply with state law by Miranda de Moraes February 24, 2026 12:38 pm February 24, 2026 2:18 pm Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... An automated license plate reader at Whiskey Hill Road and Woodside Road in Woodside on Jan. 29, 2024. Photo by Angela Swartz. Redwood City police are reviewing their use of automated license plate readers after other neighboring departments in Menlo Park and Mountain View acknowledged that outside agencies had unauthorized access to their systems. Unlike those cities, the Redwood City Police Department has not disclosed any improper data sharing. In a statement released on Feb. 13, the department said that it operates under state and local safeguards. The city’s Communications Manager Nick Mathiowdis said Tuesday that the city has “seen no evidence of unauthorized law enforcement agencies accessing Redwood City’s ALPR technology.” In Menlo Park , police acknowledged that agencies in Houston and Sauk Village, Illinois, conducted tens of thousands of searches of the city’s license plate data, a violation of state law. In Mountain View , police discovered that “national” and “statewide” lookup settings allowed hundreds of agencies to search its data for more than a year. Police Chief Mike Canfield announced on Feb. 2 that all of the city’s license plate cameras would be dismantled immediately . According to the city’s ALPR policy , license plate reader data may not be shared with out-of-state or federal agencies without a court order or warrant issued by a California court. State law prohibits local law enforcement from cooperating with immigration enforcement. The California Attorney General’s Office said license plate reader data cannot be shared with federal or out-of-state agencies, and that it must be deleted after 30 days, except for use as criminal evidence. To date, Redwood City has 25 active license plate readers and other cameras scattered around the city, even though the ALPR Transparency Portal lists 26, including one duplicate that city staff is working to remove. RCPD has conducted 367 searches using these devices in the last 30 days. In these searches, nearly 686,000 vehicles were detected, though fewer than 1% were hot-list hits. According to Redwood City’s ALPR policy, immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment, intimidation, personal use, and use based solely on a protected class like race, sex and religion are prohibited. The policy also states that facial recognition, people, gender and race are not detected by these devices. Redwood City’s contract with Flock expires in September 2026. This timing, the RCPD stated in the Feb. 13 press release, “uniquely positions the city” to gather feedback from the Police Advisory Committee and other stakeholders before reconfirming vendors and technology. The Redwood City Council approved the $243,750 contract with Flock Safety in September 2023 to install 25 automated license plate readers around Redwood City. All but one council member voted for the cameras; Council member Chris Sturken was the lone dissenter, alleging that the ALPR policy lacked adequate privacy safeguards. The city’s approval of automated license plate readers followed a presentation by the Redwood City Police Department that revealed that only about a third of the 426 violent crimes from 2020 to 2021 were solved by police due to a lack of evidence and investigative leads, with the majority of cases involving vehicles. Since then, the police department said this month that ALPR has “proven to be a valuable investigative tool” in helping officers recover stolen vehicles, locate missing people, and identify criminal suspects. On Thursday evening, Flock cameras aided a San Mateo County Sheriff’s deputy in identifying the vehicle driven by a 19-year-old attempted murder suspect and two minors, charged with similar crimes. Redwood City was among a growing list of San Mateo County cities to install the readers, bringing the total to around 300 cameras across the county in 2023. This number has fallen to 123 readers as of Monday. This news organization filed a public records request with the Redwood City Police Department on Feb. 18 to provide a log of all ALPR queries made by outside organizations. The department’s results were not available in time for publication. Police Most Popular Man arrested in fatal Redwood City hit-and-run 12 hours ago Mullin far outraises CA-15 challengers as PACs fuel campaign May 27, 2026 10:32 am Jury finds retired Woodside attorney guilty of molesting children 12 hours ago Tagged: redwoodcity - city news , redwoodcity - top post - primary , redwoodcity - top post - secondary Miranda de Moraes Miranda de Moraes is a Brazilian-American So-Cal native, who earned her bachelor's at U.C. Santa Barbara and master's at Columbia Journalism School. She’s reported up and down the coast of California... More by Miranda de Moraes Leave a comment This is the Comment policy text in the settings. Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Editor's Picks Man arrested in fatal Redwood City hit-and-run Jury finds retired Woodside attorney guilty of molesting children RCSD’s parcel tax Measure C goes to voters Tuesday Menlo Park police officer injured in Dumbarton Bridge car chase Stanford Medicine receives $10M for children’s health AI Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Content Removal Policy Photo Usage Policy Employment Newsletters Express Weekend Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty News Alerts Place a Legal Notice Special Publications Membership FAQs Customer Service Make a one-time donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Spotlight © Copyright Embarcadero Media Foundation The Peninsula Palo Alto Online Redwood City Pulse Almanac News Mountain View Voice East Bay Livermore Vine Danville & San Ramon Pleasanton Weekly © 2026 Redwood City Pulse Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Redwood City Pulse directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Breaking News Email Alerts Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty Weekend Express Local Scoop Editorial Features Marketing See all Continue You’ve read all free articles for the month. Register now and get five free articles every month. Register for free Gain unlimited access to the Redwood City Pulse . Become a Member Already have an account? Sign In . Trouble with your login information? Get help . Gift this article Close Link Copy link