Man arrested in fatal Redwood City hit-and-run - Redwood City Pulse Close Become a Member Sign In Search for: Search News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok Close Skip to content Redwood City Pulse Nonprofit local news for the Midpeninsula Become a Member Sign In Menu Sign In News Open dropdown menu City Government San Mateo County State News from CalMatters Housing Education Obituaries Send Us a News Tip City Limits Opinion Open dropdown menu Blogs Open dropdown menu Portal to Our Past The Green Scene Peeking at Plans The Food Party! Couple’s Net A New Shade of Green One Wild and Precious Life From the Crime Files What’s New at the Farmers Market Guest Opinion Letters to the Editor Submit an Opinion Food Arts & Culture Open dropdown menu Community Calendar Community Kindness Spotlight Real Estate The 650: Explore the Peninsula Support Our Work Open dropdown menu Make a donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Contact Us Open dropdown menu About Us Send a Message to the Editor Send Us a News Tip Login Help Open Search Search for: Search Home » Man arrested in fatal Redwood City hit-and-run Posted in Police Man arrested in fatal Redwood City hit-and-run by Bay City News Service 12 hours ago May 29, 2026 10:34 am Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... A Redwood City man was arrested Thursday over a fatal hit-and-run that killed a 72-year-old woman, after investigators used surveillance video and license plate reader technology to identify the suspect vehicle, police said. The woman was struck near Middlefield Road and Beech Street on Sunday at about 9:45 p.m. Officers responded to the scene and found the woman near the intersection. She was taken to a hospital, where she later died. The Redwood Police Department said the driver fled the scene and described the vehicle as a white truck. The investigation took a turn the following day when officers and detectives reviewed surveillance video that captured the collision. Investigators determined the vehicle was a late-model white Toyota Tundra and used data from their Automated License Plate Reader, or ALPR, to search for matching vehicles in the area at the time of the crash. According to police, the search identified a single vehicle linked to a local address. Officers found the truck in the driveway of the registered owner’s home on Monday and seized it as evidence while detectives continued their investigation. On Thursday, police said the truck’s registered owner and driver, 52-year-old Francisco GallardoAlvarez of Redwood City, came to the department, where he was arrested. GallardoAlvarez was booked into the San Mateo County Maguire Correctional Facility on suspicion of vehicular manslaughter and hit-and-run resulting in injury or death, police said. The case remains under further investigation. Anyone with information is asked to contact the Redwood City Police Department at (650) 780-7100. Police Most Popular Man arrested in fatal Redwood City hit-and-run 12 hours ago Mullin far outraises CA-15 challengers as PACs fuel campaign May 27, 2026 10:32 am Jury finds retired Woodside attorney guilty of molesting children 12 hours ago Tagged: redwoodcity - city news , redwoodcity - top post - secondary Leave a comment This is the Comment policy text in the settings. Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Editor's Picks Man arrested in fatal Redwood City hit-and-run Jury finds retired Woodside attorney guilty of molesting children RCSD’s parcel tax Measure C goes to voters Tuesday Menlo Park police officer injured in Dumbarton Bridge car chase Stanford Medicine receives $10M for children’s health AI Facebook Page X Instagram TikTok About Us Contact Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Content Removal Policy Photo Usage Policy Employment Newsletters Express Weekend Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty News Alerts Place a Legal Notice Special Publications Membership FAQs Customer Service Make a one-time donation Become a Member Advertising & Sponsorships Spotlight © Copyright Embarcadero Media Foundation The Peninsula Palo Alto Online Redwood City Pulse Almanac News Mountain View Voice East Bay Livermore Vine Danville & San Ramon Pleasanton Weekly © 2026 Redwood City Pulse Powered by Newspack Privacy Policy Sign in Close Continue with Google Or Enter the code sent to your email Email address Enter your password Sign in by entering the code we sent to , or clicking the magic link in the email. Continue Resend code Email me a one-time code instead Forgot password Create an account Sign in to an existing account Go back Continue Set a password (optional) Privacy Policy . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Sign up for newsletters Close Get the best of Redwood City Pulse directly in your email inbox. Sending to: Breaking News Email Alerts Express Peninsula Foodist The Six Fifty Weekend Express Local Scoop Editorial Features Marketing See all Continue You’ve read all free articles for the month. Register now and get five free articles every month. Register for free Gain unlimited access to the Redwood City Pulse . Become a Member Already have an account? Sign In . Trouble with your login information? Get help . Gift this article Close Link Copy link