--- page 1 ---
NEWS & COMMENTARY
Dozens of Police Agencies in California
Are Still Sharing Driver Locations with
Anti-Abortion States. We're Fighting
Back.
Automatic license plate readers collect and store highly
sensitive information that can reveal where we work, live,
worship, or seek reproductive health services. Sharing any
ALPR information with out-of-state or federal law enforcement
agencies has been forbidden in California since 2016.
Nick Hidalgo, Staff Attorney for the Technology and Civil Liberties Program, ACLU of Northern California
Matt Cagle, Technology and Civil Liberties Attorney, ACLU of Northern California
February 13, 2024
Over the last decade, California has built up some of the nation’s strongest driver
privacy protections, thanks to the hard work of activists, civil rights groups, and
elected leaders.
One law in particular, often called SB 34, prohibits police from circulating detailed
maps of people’s driving patterns with the federal government and agencies in other
states– a protection that has only grown more important with the end of Roe v. Wade
and the subsequent surge in abortion criminalization.
But dozens of California police departments have decided to defy the law, even after
receiving clear guidance from California Attorney General Rob Bonta, the chief law
enforcement officer in the state. Last month the ACLU of Northern California and our
partners sent Attorney General Bonta a letter listing 35 police agencies that have
refused to comply with the law and protect driver privacy.
We should all be able to drive to a doctor’s office, place of worship, or political rally
without being tracked and cataloged by police agencies. But for years now, police have
used automated license plate readers (ALPRs) to record and track the movements of
drivers on a previously unseen scale. These systems allow police to collect and store
information about drivers whose cars pass through ALPR cameras’ fields of view,
which, along with the date and time of capture, can reveal sensitive details about our
movements and, as a result, our private lives.

--- page 2 ---
Source: American Civil Liberties Union
The ACLU has long seen the danger ALPR surveillance poses, and working alongside
communities on the ground, has fought to bolster California’s legal protections for
driver privacy. For over a decade, we have conducted investigations, advocacy, and
litigation focused on how police agencies use ALPR to track law-abiding drivers, amass
hordes of sensitive information, and use it to harm people.
In the wake of ACLU’s groundbreaking report on ALPR across the US, we called out
police use of ALPRs in 2013 as a threat to driver privacy and warned that California
lacked statewide driver privacy protections. In 2016, thanks in part to the advocacy of
the ACLU and allies, the California legislature passed SB 34, the law at issue today. In
2019 we discovered Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) exploitation of
ALPR-collected information to track and target immigrants in California and across
the United States.
From there, we took action to enforce California’s driver privacy protections. In 2021
we sued Marin County, California for illegally sharing millions of local drivers’ license
plates and locations with federal and out-of-state agencies, including ICE. The sheriff
eventually agreed to comply with SB 34 as part of a settlement agreement, but we
believed that many other California police agencies were still violating SB 34.
We rang the alarm again in the wake of the Dobbs decision overturning Roe v. Wade.
Alongside our partners at the Electronic Frontier Foundation and ACLU of Southern
California, we sent letters to over 70 law enforcement agencies in California
demanding they stop sharing people’s driving patterns with states that have
You Are Being Tracked: How License Plate Readers Are Being Used to Record
Americans' Movements

--- page 3 ---
criminalized abortion care. We also notified the attorney general’s office of these
violations.
Following our letters, the attorney general issued instructions to police across the state
to follow SB 34’s plain text and cease sharing license plate information with state and
federal agencies outside California. While some agencies have come into compliance,
many police are digging in and refusing to follow the law. Police lobbyists have even
asked the attorney general to withdraw his interpretation of the law.
Simply put, the position touted by police agencies and their lobbyists puts Californians
at risk. SB 34 is important because when police track and share the locations of law-
abiding drivers, that information can easily be used to facilitate racist policing,
punitive fees, and the discriminatory targeting of people in California and beyond.
And, as our letters warned, when California shares ALPR information with authorities
in states with anti-abortion or anti-trans laws, police and prosecutors gain new power
to track and prosecute people who traveled to California to receive reproductive or
gender-affirming care.
We should all be able to travel safely on the state’s roads without our movements being
handed to authorities outside the state. That is why we have continued to push
California police agencies to follow California’s driver privacy law. And it’s why we have
supported localities that reject ALPR programs at odds with their values.
It is unacceptable that police agencies charged with enforcing laws are refusing to
comply with this one. While we are pleased with Attorney General Bonta’s strong
statement on SB 34, we urge the attorney general to use all available means at his
disposal to ensure compliance. And rest assured, that the ACLU will continue fighting
to enact and enforce protections that keep all of us safe, no matter where we go in the
state.
This article was originally featured on the blog of the ACLU of Northern California.
Privacy & Technology
Human Rights and Privacy
Privacy and Surveillance
Human Rights
National Security
Learn More About the Issues on This
Page

--- page 4 ---
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
New Orleans Police Continuing to Use Live Face
Recognition Despite City Law
City’s police cross a line, breach norms, and threaten to normalize a
nightmarish level of surveillance in American life.
By: Jay Stanley
Virginia
Apr 2026
Schmidt v. Norfolk
Whether Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) systems violate
individuals’ expectations of privacy under the Fourth Amendment.
Status: Ongoing
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Related Content
Privacy & Technology
Privacy & Technology

--- page 5 ---
Municipalities: Beware of Changes in Flock’s Legal Terms
if You’re Using or Considering License Plate Readers
A flurry of Flock contract changes disempower customers
By: Jay Stanley
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
More than a Dozen Wrongful Arrests Due to Police
Reliance on Facial Recognition Technology
One ACLU client spent six months in jail, because police relied on
facial recognition technology to incorrectly identify her as a suspect.
She’s the fourteenth person known to be wrongfully arrested due to
the technology’s failures.
By: Lauren Yu, Nathan Freed Wessler
© 2026 American Civil Liberties Union
Privacy & Technology
Privacy & Technology

--- page 6 ---
