--- page 1 ---
In response to Flock’s announcement of operational changes, the
ACLU breaks down why many fall short.
Chad Marlow, ACLU
Tracking ALPR Cameras News Series
August 13, 2026
In response to Flock’s announcement of operational changes, the ACLU breaks down why many fall short.
Surveillance company Flock Safety announced several operational changes in response to a torrent of
criticism and overwhelming public opposition to its mass government surveillance product.
Flock’s threat to privacy stems from its operation of more than 120,000 automatic license plate
readers (ALPRs) nationwide, which includes broad location data collection and sharing. While one
proposed change to Flock’s operations might constitute a positive development, most of the other
changes seem to be following Flock’s playbook of treating legitimate privacy concerns as mere public
relations problems. Several of the proposed changes Flock is touting are merely retreads of previous
inadequate safety measures.
ALPR companies like Flock violate our privacy across the country by taking photos of every vehicle
passing their cameras, logging detailed information about them into a massive nationwide database,
and making it possible to track those vehicles and apply AI to uncover their occupants’ private
patterns of life. The ACLU is fighting alongside communities to cancel local ALPR contracts and push
lawmakers to protect our rights from this surveillance nightmare. Below, the ACLU details and
responds to Flock’s announced changes.
Flock reduces default data retention time period, but the
devil may be in the details.
Flock announced it is reducing its standard data retention from one month to one week, conceding
for the first time that “roughly 90 percent of all searches on Flock already happen within a week” of
pite 'New' Updates, Flock's Creepy Cameras Remain Major Civil Liberties
at

--- page 2 ---
the data’s collection.
“For cases that need more time, Flock is launching Evidence Mode: when a search is tied to a case
number, that data is preserved instead of aging out after 7 days,” Flock said in its statement.
“Agencies can still set retention to whatever their state or local policy requires. Evidence Mode will be
provided to customers at no cost.”
Our Response: While Flock has not shortened the default retention period to the ACLU’s
recommended 48 hours, its proposal may be a step in the right direction. Whether this is a real
change or just another Flock PR move, however, will depend on how its “Evidence Mode” operates.
If “Evidence Mode” only retains hit result data that police determine may be evidence in an active
investigation of a specific case, then the change may be a positive one. But if “Evidence Mode”
triggers the retention of any ALPR data that is searched, then the new mode could indefinitely retain
all the ALPR data Flock collects and shares nationally. This would make Flock’s data retention
problem even worse. Even if “Evidence Mode’s” data retention hold only applies to hits returned on a
given search, it would still retain significant amounts of location data on persons and vehicles who
law enforcement do not suspect have engaged in any wrongdoing.
While Flock doesn’t establish state or local ALPR data retention periods, its system empowers
governments to choose their own retention periods. For states and localities that want and permit
longer data retention periods, all they have to do is ask. Although Flock may not technically be the
one unlocking the door to months of people’s private location data, it is responsible for building the
door and handing out the keys.
Flock claims to provide more local control over what
their ALPR data can be searched for; it has repeatedly
failed to effectuate such limitations in the past.
Flock claims that its changes will provide “more local control,” meaning local police can decide what
types of offenses other Flock customers can search their data for. “For example,” Flock said, “City A
could allow City B to search its cameras for a stolen vehicle or violent crime while blocking searches
related to immigration enforcement.”
Our Response: This is not new. Flock has attempted this before, and the security measure failed
because users were easily able to circumvent the system’s requirement that police input the purpose
of their search.
For example, on June 12, 2025 Flock started claiming its new “Proactive Search Term Tool” would
block any “impermissible” searches, such as abortion-related searches in states like Illinois that
prohibit sharing reproductive healthcare data. But police officers quickly realized they could just
input “investigation” or even “hehehe” as a search reason and it would be approved. Flock later
switched from an open text box to a drop-down menu of reasons, but that just offered police a list of
acceptable purposes they could choose from, whether it was accurate or not. Until Flock demonstrates
they can develop a reliable, workable system to prevent improper searches, this promise of local
control provides nothing more than a false sense of security.
Flock claims the universal roll out of its audit assistance
tool will detect police misuse, but the effectiveness of

--- page 3 ---
its audit tool has never been independently evaluated.
Flock’s next change makes its “Audit Assistance” tool, which the company claims “flags abnormal
search behavior,” a standard feature for all its customers. Flock lauds the effectiveness of its audit tool
by simply stating that “identification of [police officer] misuse went up” after it established its audit
tool.
Our Response: While providing “Audit Assistance” to all departments makes sense, there is no
evidence that the tool works consistently to address what the Washington Post observed is a growing
pattern of police officers turning Flock into a personal stalking tool. While dozens of officers have
recently been arrested, fired, or otherwise disciplined for misusing Flock for personal reasons, Flock
claims these arrests are proof its auditing tool works. However, unless we know the number of officers
misusing the system, we cannot conclude if Flock and its auditing tools are catching 95 percent of
violators or 5 percent. Flock needs to have its auditing tool analyzed by an independent evaluator to
determine its actual effectiveness. Until then, we don’t know if the tool is a real security measure or
just window dressing.
Flock claims requiring the reasons for a search will
prevent abuse, even though that same intervention failed
miserably before.
Perhaps the oddest part of Flock’s announcement is its claims that “now every search will require”
police to input a case code, a previously optional requirement it first rolled out in July 2025. While
claiming that a “search without a reason is a search that shouldn’t happen in the first place,” Flock’s
announcement fails to note how easily users have circumvented “search reason” security measures in
the past or how its new policy improves the quality of the feature. This leaves the public wondering
how making an ineffective voluntary security measure mandatory will improve its functionality.
Our Response: Until Flock demonstrates through independent evaluation that its search reason
requirement is an effective, air-tight security measure, it’s reasonable to assume its past failures are
prologue.
Transforming an exceptionally dangerous mass surveillance system into one that is fully protective of
civil rights and civil liberties is a difficult, if not impossible task. That is even more the case with a
company like Flock, whose nearly $1 billion in venture capitalist funding has locked it into an
operational model that seeks to trade our privacy for massive profits. Given that Flock’s latest
announcement still appears more focused on addressing a perceived PR problem than the significant
harms its products create, this is hardly the step forward Flock wants us to think it is. Change may
still come as Flock faces this ever growing threat to its corporate viability, and we will continue to
analyze the company’s proposals fairly and honestly, but we certainly won’t be holding our breath.
Related Issues

--- page 4 ---
Privacy & Technology
Automatic License Plate Readers
Location Tracking
Related Content
Press Release
Sep 2026
ACLU, ACLU of D.C., and National Press Photographers
Association Tell Court that Blocking Drone Photography of
DHS Operations Violates First Amendment
WASHINGTON – Today, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), the
ACLU of D.C., and the National Press Photographers Association filed
an amicus brief in support of a Minnesota photojournalist’s lawsuit
challenging the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) Temporary
Flight Restrictions (TFR). Earlier this year, as ICE was carrying out
brutal immigration raids across the country, the FAA dramatically
expanded restrictions on drone flights, banning such flights over any
Department of Homeland Security (DHS) facility or “mobile asset,”
which included any DHS vehicle. As the amicus explains, the TFR
made it functionally impossible for journalists to use drones to gather
news in any area where immigration enforcement agents were
deployed, violating the First Amendment right to record public
officials performing their duties in public. “The FAA’s restriction
forced journalists reporting on immigration enforcement activity to
ground their drones or risk criminal charges. This choice is
unacceptable, unconstitutional, and runs roughshod over the First
Amendment right to gather news,” said Scarlet Kim, senior staff
attorney with ACLU’s Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project. The
brief explains that the FAA’s restriction was not about public safety or
national security. Journalists were previously already advised and
generally adhered to avoiding airspace around sensitive locations,
such as active military bases, airports, and aircraft carriers. Moreover,
press drones weren’t interfering with official activity or putting anyone
at risk by capturing immigration enforcement activity unfolding in
public. "Under Trump, even the Federal Aviation Administration has
become a political censor,” said Arthur Spitzer, senior counsel at
ACLU-D.C. “The agency should be protecting the safety of the flying
public, not protecting ICE from unfavorable news coverage.” The brief
further explains that journalists were effectively being censored
beyond their DHS coverage, since the unpredictability of where any
Free Speech
Privacy & Technology

--- page 5 ---
DHS vehicle may be traveling made it functionally impossible for
journalists to use drones for any newsgathering in areas where
immigration enforcement agents were deployed without putting
themselves at risk of severe legal and financial penalties. “Drones
have become essential, safe, and economical tools for documenting
government activity and other matters of public concern. By creating
an unpredictable moving exclusion zone around DHS assets, the FAA
forced visual journalists to choose between abandoning lawful
newsgathering and risking severe penalties,” said Mickey H.
Osterreicher, general counsel for the National Press Photographers
Association. “Safety restrictions must be narrowly tailored and
consistent with the First Amendment, especially when they limit the
public’s ability to observe government officials performing their
duties.”
Court Case: Levine v. FAA
Affiliate: Washington, D.C.
New Hampshire
Sep 2026
LaValley v. Concord Housing and Redevelopment Authority
On September 2, 2026, the ACLU, ACLU of New Hampshire and New
Hampshire Legal Assistance brought a class action lawsuit against the
Concord Housing and Redevelopment Authority for installing and
operating surveillance devices in tenants’ apartments. The devices
collected hundreds of millions of data points recording movement,
sound levels, and other information from inside tenants’ homes.
Status: Ongoing
Press Release
Sep 2026
Privacy & Technology

--- page 6 ---
ACLU and New Hampshire Legal Assistance Sue Housing
Authority Over Electronic Surveillance of Residents
CONCORD, N.H. — Today, residents of housing developments owned
and maintained by the Concord Housing and Redevelopment
Authority (CHRA) in New Hampshire sued to block CHRA from
harvesting sweeping data about tenants’ activity patterns in their
homes through surveillance devices purchased from a private
company, Mînut Inc. In the fall of 2024, CHRA began installing Mînut
Monitor devices inside people’s apartments across the properties it
manages, providing government employees with real-time, remote
access to granular data about activity within tenants’ homes. These
devices are capable of collecting data such as the decibel level of
detected noise, motion detector readings showing physical movement
of residents and guests, smoke and humidity levels, and scans for iOS
signals, which can estimate how many people are nearby. “People
should feel secure in their homes—not watched, judged, or punished
by technology they never asked for. These devices change how
tenants interact with their own apartments, turning everyday living
into a source of fear,” said Christopher Schott, director of New
Hampshire Legal Assistance's Fair Housing Project. “No one should
worry that an assistance animal, a television, or other routine
household sound could trigger penalties simply for living their life.”
Taken together, the information provided by Mînut Monitors can
create a mosaic of detail about peoples’ lives, revealing when they
wake up, when they come and go from their home, and more. Mînut
Monitors near tenants’ beds can even potentially track sound and
motion data that could reflect intimate acts. Much of the data is
logged on a minute-by-minute basis. For example, each Mînut Monitor
logs sound-level readings approximately every single minute, up to
1,440 times a day. For one tenant, the Mînut Monitor logged more than
140,000 motion events within a seven-month period for just a single
unit - an average of more than 700 motion events per day. All told,
CHRA has amassed hundreds of millions of data points from within
tenants’ apartments. The data is stored indefinitely and available to
CHRA employees on demand. The class action lawsuit was filed by
New Hampshire Legal Assistance, the American Civil Liberties Union
of New Hampshire, and the American Civil Liberties Union. As the
complaint explains, this invasion of privacy in individuals’ homes by a
government agency is unacceptable and violates two provisions of the
New Hampshire Constitution, Article 19 and Article 2-b. Article 19
prohibits unreasonable searches by the government. Article 2-b,
which was added to the New Hampshire Constitution by referendum
in 2018, provides that “an individual’s right to live free from
governmental intrusion in private or personal information is natural,
essential, and inherent.” “We’re suing because everyone deserves
privacy in their own home. The government shouldn't get to know if
Privacy & Technology

--- page 7 ---
you are getting up in the middle of the night to use the bathroom or
when your morning alarm goes off just because you live in public
housing,” said Maria Savarese, staff attorney at the ACLU of New
Hampshire. “Our state constitution is clear: we have the right to live
free from government surveillance and intrusion in our homes."
Furthermore, CHRA’s implementation of Mînut Monitors over the past
two years has been marked by severe lack of transparency and a
dismissal of tenants’ objections. Throughout the installation process,
significant information was left out of notices to tenants, painting the
technology as much less invasive and far-reaching than the Mînut
Monitors’ actual capabilities. For example, CHRA did not disclose the
occupancy and motion sensor capabilities of the devices, only
disclosing the use of sensors for smoke, noise, temperature, and
humidity detection. When residents asked outright whether the
monitors placed in their homes included motion sensors, CHRA failed
to directly answer the question. CHRA also omitted from their tenant
communications that Mînut’s terms of service includes a warning
about potential inaccuracies in the AI and machine learning models
used to analyze and detect the presence of cigarette smoke. This is
especially alarming considering that CHRA's stated purpose of
installing Mînut Monitors is to substantiate lease violations that can
lead to eviction. When one resident asked to see the data produced
from tracking her day-to-day activity, CHRA denied her request. In
multiple instances, CHRA disregarded residents’ concerns about the
surveillance they were subjected to. Tenants are not able to opt out of
this invasive surveillance, and if they attempt to remove the devices
from their units, they are subject to significant fines and have been
threatened with eviction. CHRA failed to create any policy for secure
data retention and destruction, despite a request to do so by its own
Board of Directors, leaving Mînut free to handle residents’ data
however it wants. Mînut’s data retention policy also gives the company
complete authority to retain user information for any duration and
purpose. CHRA did not share this policy with tenants at any point. The
lawsuit also explains that far from improving tenants’ housing
experience, CHRA's insistence on surveillance exposes them to
serious safety risks. For example, access to the data could severely
endanger victims of domestic violence or stalking whose abusive
former romantic partners or stalkers could learn details about their
patterns of life. “A government-installed sound meter and motion
sensor hovering near your bed should be the stuff of dystopian
science fiction, but it is reality in Concord. Public housing residents
shouldn’t have to choose between becoming homeless and being
subjected to constant electronic monitoring inside the privacy of their
own homes,” said Nathan Freed Wessler, deputy director of ACLU’s
Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project. “This case happens to rely
on the robust protections of the New Hampshire Constitution, but
landlords across the country are now on notice: subjecting your
residents to this chillingly invasive surveillance will land you in court.”
Court Case: LaValley v. Concord Housing and Redevelopment Authority
Affiliate: New Hampshire
News & Commentary
Sep 2026

--- page 8 ---
Another Problem With AI-Assisted Police Reports:
Companies Can Have Incentives to Distort Their Content
Police Companies Could Train Their AI to Hide Use of Their Products
or Make Them Look Good
By: Jay Stanley
© 2026 American Civil Liberties Union
Privacy & Technology
Criminal Law Reform