--- page 1 ---
NEWS & COMMENTARY
Kansas Town Uses License Plate Readers
to Go After Man Who Wrote Op-Ed
Targeting followed opinion piece critical of town’s police and
anonymously posted anti-ICE fliers
Jay Stanley, Senior Policy Analyst, ACLU Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project
February 3, 2026
Subscribe to the Free Future Newsletter
Free Future home
Police in Lenexa, Kansas used automated license plate reader (ALPR) technology to
pursue a man who wrote a critical op-ed about the police department, according to
reporting by Kansas public radio station KCUR. This is a rare public example of exactly
the kind of abuse that we’ve long warned against when it comes to mass-surveillance
systems like license plate readers. It also comes on the heels of reports about apparent
misuse of license plate databases by ICE agents in Minnesota not for legitimate law
enforcement purposes but to intimidate observers and protesters, and of a woman who
was falsely accused of theft based on data from license plate readers.
The op-ed published by the Kansas man, Canyen Ashworth, was critical of local ICE
operations and the role of Lenexa police in them. The same day that piece ran, Lenexa
police began to investigate Ashworth, according to internal emails obtained by KCUR.
They quickly tied him to an unidentified suspect the police were looking for who had
several days earlier put four posters up around town showing a picture of an ICE agent
and the words “remember when we killed fascists.” The police alleged that the
unidentified “Paper Hanger” had violated an unspecified city ordinance, and the
posters were removed.
The Paper Hanger’s arguably aggressive message was nonetheless speech protected by
the First Amendment. And while government officials may regulate constitutionally
protected speech through “time, place, and manner” restrictions, they can't do so
selectively based on the content of the messages. KCUR reports that in Lenexa,
“Posters about lost pets and community events were generally not removed.”

--- page 2 ---
In fact, the town’s mayor later told KCUR that the town had no formal policy regarding
posters on city property.
City and police officials claimed that they were targeting the Paper Hanger because the
glue he used had the potential to damage city property. On the basis of this great
crime, the police began using license plate readers to track Ashworth’s movements
around town, and several weeks after his op-ed, the police chief emailed patrol officers
to announce that “A suspect has been developed in the case of the City Center Posters”
and announce a “be on the lookout for” (BOLO) alert for Ashworth.
Perhaps most ominously, when issuing the BOLO the chief declared “This is MYOC,”
meaning “make your own case” — which in turn meant essentially, “there is no arrest
warrant for him so look for any reason to stop him” and, as the deputy police chief at
the time put it, “You need to build your own probable cause, your own reasonable
suspicion.”
As my ACLU colleague and head of the Kansas ACLU Micah Kubic put it, issuing a
BOLO on someone for putting up posters is “both a rejection of the First Amendment,
and a really ridiculous misuse of resources.”
Compared to the blatant targeting of people for their speech and/or political
opposition that we’ve been seeing lately from the Trump Administration, this case may
look small. But it was scary enough for Ashworth. And it's a particularly clear example
of the abusive dynamic that mass-surveillance systems always end up falling into:
1. Target someone who the authorities dislike but have no evidence has done anything
wrong.
2. Fire up powerful surveillance technologies that have been sold to the public as a
way to stop serious, dramatic crimes and keep the public safe.
3. Use those technologies to watch the disfavored person in the hopes of drumming
up something that they can be charged with, even to the point of scraping the
bottom of the barrel and going after something like “damaging glue use.”
We’ve seen plenty of this “show me the man, I’ll find you the crime” kind of abuse at
the hands of the Trump Administration. But this story is a reminder that such abuse
can rear its head in towns across the nation — small, medium, or large. And when it
does, license plate reading programs are a natural tool for the authorities to turn to.
Privacy & Technology
Learn More About the Issues on This
Page

--- page 3 ---
Automatic License Plate Readers
Location Tracking
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
New Orleans Police Continuing to Use Live Face
Recognition Despite City Law
City’s police cross a line, breach norms, and threaten to normalize a
nightmarish level of surveillance in American life.
By: Jay Stanley
Virginia
Apr 2026
Schmidt v. Norfolk
Whether Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) systems violate
individuals’ expectations of privacy under the Fourth Amendment.
Status: Ongoing
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Related Content
Privacy & Technology
Privacy & Technology

--- page 4 ---
Municipalities: Beware of Changes in Flock’s Legal Terms
if You’re Using or Considering License Plate Readers
A flurry of Flock contract changes disempower customers
By: Jay Stanley
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
More than a Dozen Wrongful Arrests Due to Police
Reliance on Facial Recognition Technology
One ACLU client spent six months in jail, because police relied on
facial recognition technology to incorrectly identify her as a suspect.
She’s the fourteenth person known to be wrongfully arrested due to
the technology’s failures.
By: Lauren Yu, Nathan Freed Wessler
© 2026 American Civil Liberties Union
Privacy & Technology
Privacy & Technology

--- page 5 ---
