--- page 1 ---
The ACLU provides a range of tactics for communities to stop or
limit the use of Flock’s ALPR mass surveillance technology
Chad Marlow, Senior Policy Counsel, ACLU
Jay Stanley, Senior Policy Analyst, ACLU Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project
Tracking ALPR Cameras News Series
June 29, 2026
The ACLU provides a range of tactics for communities to stop or limit the use of Flock’s ALPR mass surveillance
technology
Americans across the country have objected the privacy invasion of the infamous mass
surveillance company Flock Safety as a nationwide movement has emerged to oppose
local partnerships with Flock.
Advocates and local officials from across the political spectrum have helped push cities
across the U.S. to terminate their contracts with the company. Many recoiled learning
that the company was sharing local automated license plate reader (ALPR) data with
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to assist with deportation efforts.
One Texas sheriff even used that data to track down a woman who’d had an abortion. A
federal law enforcement agency also used the readers to identify attendees at a gun
show.
More than 55 localities have ended contracts with Flock in the past year alone. If your
city or town is already doing ALPR business with Flock or one of its competitors, Axon
or Motorola Solutions, we encourage you to join this movement to terminate your local
government’s relationship with the company. And if police or government leaders are
currently pushing for a mass-surveillance ALPR system in your community, we urge you
to oppose it.
In some cities, opponents of ALPRs have had a difficult time winning an outright
rejection of this technology. We offer a suite of options below for limiting the dangers
to Fight Deployment of Flock and Other Mass Surveillance License Plate
ders in Your Community

--- page 2 ---
and damage of such a system. If you live in a community where ALPR systems can’t be
stopped entirely, you can still help protect your neighborhood’s civil liberties. We
recommend working with your local police department and elected officials to ensure
that local ALPR cameras do not feed into a mass surveillance system that lets potentially
every law enforcement department in the world spy on any city in the U.S.
What is Flock Doing?
Flock says its corporate objective is to build a national camera network of ALPRs by
placing them in every city in the United States. While license plate readers have been
around for some time, Flock and its venture capital investors are pursuing massive
profits by increasing the government’s ability to identify and track vehicles and drivers
in local communities to dystopian levels. As Flock itself boasts, its nationwide ALPR
network produces more than 20 billion vehicle-tracking plate scans every month in
more than 5,000 American communities.
Flock not only allows private camera owners to create their own “hot lists” that will
generate alarms when listed plates are spotted, it also runs all plates against larger state
police watchlists and the FBI’s primary criminal database, the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC). Flock works with police departments, neighborhood watch
groups, and other private customers.
Unlike a targeted ALPR camera system that is designed to take pictures of license plates,
check the plates against local hot lists, and then flush the data if there’s no hit, Flock is
building a giant camera network that records people’s comings and goings across the
nation. It then makes that data available for any of its law enforcement customers. A
current Flock law enforcement customer can also run a search on behalf of other
agencies, like ICE. This provides even small-town sheriffs access to a sweeping and
powerful mass-surveillance tool. Big actors like federal agencies and large urban police
departments can also access the comings and goings of vehicles in even the smallest of
towns. Both Axon and Motorola Solutions, who are competitors to Flock, are pursuing
similar business models.
Many police departments neither understand nor endorse Flock mass surveillance-
driven approach but are using the company’s cameras simply because other police
departments in their region are doing so. For example, the police department in
Syracuse inadvertently shared its local ALPR data via Flock’s nationwide system,
allowing their data to be searched 4.4 million times in a single year. Syracuse cancelled
its Flock contract once this information came to light. Syracuse’s story is not an outlier,
it has happened to police departments nationwide. Your own police department may
also be amenable to compromise. That might include using a vendor that does not tie its
cameras into a mass-surveillance system. In other cases, you may be able to get your
police department or local legislators to add provisions to Flock’s standard contract that
limit its mass surveillance and data sharing capabilities.
If your city or state insists on using ALPRs, the ACLU has model bills you can ask your
state and local legislators to adopt to ensure guardrails for critical civil rights and

--- page 3 ---
liberties are put into law before ALPRs are placed in the field. You can do this by urging
your state and local representatives to adopt our recommendations, attending public
meetings and hearings, and raising awareness by writing letters to the editor and op-
eds. You can also use social media to highlight the issues. Be sure to tag your elected
officials with #GetTheFlockOut.
The three most important areas for regulation and negotiation are how long the ALPR
data is retained, who the ALPR data is shared with, and how ALPRs and their data are
used by law enforcement. We obtained samples of Flock’s Government Agency
Customer Agreements with the Greensboro, North Carolina Police Department and
other Flock contracts with local police. Below is suggested contract language across
these three areas, based on these agreements, that you can use in your local advocacy
efforts.
Data Retention
Whether ALPRs are being used for Amber Alerts, toll collection, or to identify stolen
vehicles, agencies can run a license plate against a watchlist in seconds. The police do
not need records of every person’s comings and goings, including trips to doctor’s
offices, religious institutions, and political gatherings.
New Hampshire state law is a good model. It requires law enforcement to delete license
plate data that is not connected to a crime within three minutes. But you should get the
shortest retention period you can in your community. From worst to best, here are three
approaches that can be taken to the retention of ALPR data:
Who Has Access to the Data?
One of the most important privacy steps you can take is to restrict your community’s
ALPR system to local use. That means local ALPR scans only check locally developed
watch lists. Allowing local ALPR data to be used by outside law enforcement creates
significant risks. Your local ALPR data could be used to enforce anti-abortion or anti-
immigrant laws from other jurisdictions. It could even assist foreign, authoritarian
regimes in hunting down political opponents and refugees living in America. Flock’s
default provisions give the company a “worldwide” license to use its customers’ APLR
data.
These risks are simply not worth taking, especially since there are many other
companies that sell locally focused systems. From worst to best, here are three data
sharing and use approaches:

--- page 4 ---
Database Use
As much as we might hope that all police watchlists were fully reliable, we know they are
not. In fact, the FBI’s criminal database, the largest and most used national watch list,
does not even comply with the 1974 United States Privacy Act’s basic accuracy,
reliability, and completeness requirements. That means allowing your ALPR data to be
run against such databases will subject anyone living in or visiting your town to the risk
of unjustified arrest and detention. This is an especially dangerous proposition for
members of vulnerable, overpoliced communities. Here are three database use
approaches, from worst to best:
Neither local police departments, government officials, nor residents should accept
Flock’s model. We continue to believe that using Flock cameras, or cameras from its
competitors Axon or Motorola, should be opposed outright. But where that battle can’t
be won, any system should at least be confined to the community itself and not be part
of a national and international mass-surveillance system.
Privacy & Technology
Automatic License Plate Readers
Surveillance Technologies
Location Tracking
Press Release
Jun 2026
Learn More About the Issues on This
Page
Related Content

--- page 5 ---
ACLU Applauds Important Supreme Court Decision Making
Clear Location Data is Protected by the Constitution
WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court held today that a dragnet search
using Google’s location history data is covered by the Fourth
Amendment’s protections against unreasonable search and seizures.
The decision forcefully rejected the government’s argument that law
enforcement can request our location data in the form of a “geofence”
search free of any Fourth Amendment limitation. The geofence search
at issue in the case is an invasive surveillance technique that enables
police to search for and locate unknown numbers of people in a large
geographical area by exploiting cell phone location data held by
Google. “The Court’s decision provides critical protection against
invasive and overbroad government searches of our personal
information,” said Brett Max Kaufman, senior counsel with ACLU’s
Center for Democracy. “Although Google already changed its system
so it no longer has access to the same data the government had been
seeking through geofence warrants, similar kinds of reverse searches
of sensitive data held by other companies will continue to be a threat
to privacy. Law enforcement and courts are on notice that new
technology does not open up surveillance loopholes, and strict
adherence to the Fourth Amendment’s protections is required.” In the
five-justice majority opinion, Supreme Court Justice Elena Kagan
compared the geofence search of Google location history to the cell
site location information (CSLI) at issue in the landmark 2018 decision
in Carpenter v. United States, an ACLU case. Justice Kagan wrote,
“Location History implicates personal privacy interests even more
than CSLI, because Location History is more the cell-phone user’s
own. Most cell-phone users have no awareness of CSLI records, and
would never try to retrieve them; by contrast, Google users regularly
employ Location History as a personal journal. In that way, Location
History resembles other private materials—e.g., emails, documents,
photographs, or calendars—that even if stored on Google’s servers, a
user reasonably views as his own and expects to be shielded from the
“inquisitive eyes” of the government.” Separately, Justice Gorsuch also
rejected the government’s argument, concluding that a geofence
search violates an individual’s right to personal property. Three
justices dissented. Geofence warrants direct Google or other
companies to hand over users’ location data from cell phones and
other mobile devices the company estimates were in a certain area
during a certain time frame — regardless of whether police
demonstrate that they had reason to believe the people who own
these devices were involved in any crime. A high-level analysis
conducted by ACLU of Northern California of the types of places
captured by law enforcement in geofence warrants across San
Francisco, for instance, revealed a troubling pattern of broad searches
that swept in many people with no connection to the crime, including
Privacy & Technology

--- page 6 ---
at their homes and other constitutionally-protected spaces. The
American Civil Liberties Union, the ACLU of Virginia, Electronic
Frontier Foundation, and the Center on Privacy & Technology at
Georgetown Law filed an amicus brief in this case, arguing that these
geofence searches implicate core Fourth Amendment concerns, and
that police should not be able to conduct searches using geofence
warrants because they sweep in people as to whom the government
has no reason to believe they were engaged in criminal conduct. As
the groups explained, a search that ensnares any number of innocent
people just because they are nearby when a crime occurs is an
unconstitutional fishing expedition that violates the Constitution.
“The Court’s decision confirms that law enforcement does not have a
blank check to use new technology to conduct warrantless
surveillance of people’s movements,” said Eden Heilman, legal
director of the ACLU of Virginia. “We do not lose our right to privacy
simply because we use a cellphone." In its decision today, the Court
held that a government request for any amount of cell phone location
history is a search under the Fourth Amendment and thus requires a
warrant. The Court left it to the lower courts, on remand, to assess
whether the warrant that the government obtained in this case
complies with Fourth Amendment requirements. The ACLU’s amicus
brief in United States v. Chatrie is part of the Joan and Irwin Jacobs
Supreme Court docket.
Court Case: United States v. Chatrie
Affiliate: Virginia
News & Commentary
Jun 2026
Surveillance is Driving a Corporatization of Police
Departments
What are the implications of having for-profit companies at the heart
of American police departments?
By: Jay Stanley
Press Release
Jun 2026
Privacy & Technology
Criminal Law Reform

--- page 7 ---
In New Report, ACLU Warns Against Giving Private
Companies Centralized Access to Police Data
WASHINGTON – The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) released a
new report today about the increasingly central role that surveillance
and tech companies are playing in US police departments and how
that threatens to give private companies unfettered access to
Americans’ sensitive data. The report examines the major companies
involved, the potential ways this information could be abused or
exploited, and the history of close ties between corporations and
police. Every day, police across the country use body cameras, drones,
dash cams, and fixed surveillance cameras gathering hours upon
hours of footage of people going about their daily lives. And now,
some of the biggest surveillance tech companies, including Axon,
Flock, and Motorola, want to gather, analyze, and control this data by
providing “operating systems” for police departments that, like
operating systems on computers and phones, can see and control all
the data in the system. This will threaten the civil rights and civil
liberties of everyone who interacts with one of these cameras —
knowingly or not. Part of this trend is the movement towards police
cloud services, which facilitates the consolidation of data from
thousands of U.S. police departments within corporate servers and
gives these private actors live remote control over the surveillance
tech even after it’s deployed in communities. Or as Axon puts it on
their website, “integrating hardware devices and cloud software
solutions” in “the Axon ecosystem” and connecting “every officer,
responder and agency.” “Putting private, for-profit companies at the
heart of modern police departments — what could go wrong? The
answer is: plenty, and that’s what this paper outlines” said Jay Stanley,
senior policy analyst with the ACLU’s Speech, Privacy and Technology
Project.“Policymakers, the public, and the policing profession need to
grapple with the implications of this corporatization of police
departments — especially for people’s civil rights and liberties — and
address it before this becomes normalized and leads to new forms of
abuse we’ve never seen before.” These new corporate efforts to
expand their work with police are especially worrying given how
quickly surveillance technology is proliferating across the country —
and how few places have strong guardrails or oversight in place. As
the report details, there are many ways providers could exploit their
insider access to this data, including using it to go after critics,
journalists, labor unions, regulators, and competitors, or to try and
fend off investigations into their products. The lack of safeguards also
means that company employees could use this data to target exes,
manipulate prediction markets, or even alter evidence. Unfortunately,
it’s not just the companies selling these products that the public
needs to be worried about. According to the report, there is another
set of players that raise many of the same concerns about private
Privacy & Technology
+2 Issues

--- page 8 ---
companies’ access to police data and the corporate role in policing:
cloud computing platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS),
Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform, which currently also
have access to the growing mountain of data generated by
surveillance-based policing. The report lays out six recommendations
that policymakers could implement to protect their constituents.
Recommendations include contract requirements restricting private
vendors’ access to law enforcement data, mandating the use of local
rather than cloud services, and passing both the Fourth Amendment
Is Not For Sale Act and Community Control Over Police Surveillance
(CCOPS) laws.
News & Commentary
Jun 2026
The Downsides of "Deterrence"
Surveillance Boosters Tout the Benefits of Deterrence, But There’s a
Big Problem With That
By: Jay Stanley
© 2026 American Civil Liberties Union
Privacy & Technology
National Security