--- page 1 ---
NEWS & COMMENTARY
Municipalities: Beware of Changes in
Flock’s Legal Terms if You’re Using or
Considering License Plate Readers
A flurry of Flock contract changes disempower customers
Jay Stanley, Senior Policy Analyst, ACLU Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project
April 16, 2026
Subscribe to the Free Future Newsletter
Free Future home
The license plate reading company Flock has made several significant changes to its
contractual terms & conditions that appear to diminish cities and towns’ control over
data and otherwise shift power from customers to the company. Current Flock
customers, as well as those who are considering using Flock, should be aware of these
contractual changes, look closely at them, and seek the advice of counsel before they
enter into or renew a contract with the company. Flock’s changes, covered by the
security research service IPVM and the web site HaveIBeenFlocked.com, which are
both dogged investigators and critics of the company, are already having an impact on
local debates.
Flock made at least four changes to its standard terms & conditions (T&C) in the 7
months leading up to its current (as of this writing) contract, dated Feb. 16, 2026. The
changes include:
Sale of data. Flock’s previous T&C stated flatly, “Flock does not own and shall not
sell Customer Data.” That language is now absent from their T&C.
Control over data. The new license, while granting formal legal “ownership” of data
to the customer, grants the company “the exclusive right to determine and control
the method, timing, format, and medium” of access to the data that supposedly
belongs to the customer. HaveIBeenFlocked reports that Flock appears to be giving
customers access not to raw footage but to altered, degraded, low-resolution copies
of that data (which also lack metadata such as time stamps, which can be
important). That would be a funny form of ownership.
A perpetual license. The T&C now add a “perpetual” right for Flock to use customer
data to “support and improve” its services — allowing the company to keep using

--- page 2 ---
driver surveillance data even after a town, city, or other customer has terminated its
relationship with Flock and no longer has access to that data itself. Flock’s right to
use such data would have no expiration date.
Liability, termination, and arbitration provisions. The new contract also expands
Flock’s protections against liability for willful misconduct or gross negligence,
potentially shifting the costs of data breaches and other failures from the company
to taxpayers. It alsomandates private arbitration under Georgia law when there is a
contract dispute, and makes it harder for customers to terminate Flock contracts,
including when a town or city council votes not to approve a contract or fails to
appropriate the funds for it, as nearly 50 cities have done in the past year alone.
Cities and towns that are considering using this driver-surveillance technology — and
those that already are — need to be aware of these changes, and look at them very
closely, and consult their own counsel in assessing the impact in order to ensure their
constituents’ interests are protected. Of course, the best way to represent their
interests is not to install a mass surveillance system in the first place.
Privacy & Technology
Automatic License Plate Readers
Location Tracking
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Learn More About the Issues on This
Page
Related Content
Privacy & Technology

--- page 3 ---
New Orleans Police Continuing to Use Live Face
Recognition Despite City Law
City’s police cross a line, breach norms, and threaten to normalize a
nightmarish level of surveillance in American life.
By: Jay Stanley
Virginia
Apr 2026
Schmidt v. Norfolk
Whether Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) systems violate
individuals’ expectations of privacy under the Fourth Amendment.
Status: Ongoing
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
More than a Dozen Wrongful Arrests Due to Police
Reliance on Facial Recognition Technology
One ACLU client spent six months in jail, because police relied on
facial recognition technology to incorrectly identify her as a suspect.
She’s the fourteenth person known to be wrongfully arrested due to
the technology’s failures.
By: Lauren Yu, Nathan Freed Wessler
Privacy & Technology
Privacy & Technology

--- page 4 ---
Press Release
Apr 2026
Woman Wrongly Jailed for Months Based on Faulty Facial
Recognition Technology Demands Apology from Maryland
Police Departments
MARYLAND — Today, the American Civil Liberties Union and ACLU of
Maryland sent letters to three Maryland police departments on behalf
of Kimberlee Williams, an Oklahoma woman who was wrongfully
arrested because Maryland police relied on an incorrect result from
facial recognition technology and concealed their reliance on that
unreliable technology from the court when applying for arrest
warrants. Ms. Williams is the fourteenth person publicly known to
have been wrongfully arrested by U.S. police because of reliance on
erroneous facial recognition results. “I lost six months of my life when
Maryland police wrongfully imprisoned me halfway across the country
from my children, my home, and my job, all because they relied on an
incorrect result from faulty technology,” said Kimberlee Williams. “I
had never even been to Maryland before I was flown there in
handcuffs, for a crime I had nothing to do with. My family and I can’t
get that time back, but I hope my experience will be a warning to
police in Maryland and across the country that this technology can
ruin lives. No family deserves to go through that.” On June 23, 2021,
Ms. Williams was accompanying one of her daughters, a DoorDash
driver, as she made a delivery to a local military base in Lawton,
Oklahoma. When base security conducted a standard ID check, they
discovered an outstanding Maryland arrest warrant for Ms. Williams,
detained her, and called local police, who arrested her. Ms. Williams
spent 23 days in an Oklahoma jail before a Maryland officer arrived to
transport her to a jail in Montgomery County, Maryland, where she
was imprisoned for over three months while she fought to show she
couldn‘t have committed a crime in Maryland, a state she had never
been to before. The police accused Ms. Williams of being a match to
an unknown individual who had entered several bank branches in
Maryland, impersonated account holders, and withdrawn thousands
of dollars from their accounts. When the bank began investigating
these incidents, a bank investigator sent an image of the unknown
suspect to a national listserv of police and private investigators called
Crimedex. Someone on the listserv ran the image through facial
recognition technology and sent back Ms. Williams’ name and photo
as a purported match to the suspect. The bank investigator sent a
memo to a Montgomery County detective stating that “facial
recognition software” had flagged Ms. Williams as the suspect.
Without any independent investigation corroborating that erroneous
match, Montgomery County police obtained a warrant for Ms.
Williams’ arrest. As the letter sent today to Montgomery County
police details, when applying for the arrest warrant, the detective
assigned to the case concealed that the entire basis of Ms. Williams
Privacy & Technology

--- page 5 ---
purported identification was a lead from an unknown and unreliable
face recognition technology search by an unknown entity. Instead, he
misleadingly claimed that Ms. Williams had been “identified” as the
suspect, and that the detective had confirmed the identification by
visually comparing a photo of the suspect with an older photo of Ms.
Williams. Because the face recognition search had found an innocent
person (Ms. Williams) who looked similar to the suspect—an inherent
problem with the technology—the officers claimed verification was
worthless. If Montgomery County police had accurately represented
the facts to the magistrate judge or conducted an adequate
investigation, Ms. Williams would not have been subject to wrongful
arrest, prosecution, and prolonged detention. Montgomery County
prosecutors dropped their charges against Ms. Williams in October
2021, but her ordeal did not end there. Charges were pending against
her in two other Maryland counties where other bank branches had
been defrauded, based on the same misidentification by face
recognition technology and no independent investigation. She was
transferred from Montgomery County’s jail to a jail in Prince George’s
County, where she spent another two months fighting charges there
and in Anne Arundel County. Those cases were finally dismissed in
December 2021. All told, Ms. Williams spent six months behind bars.
“No one should spend six months in jail because an algorithm got it
wrong,” said Lauren Yu, a legal fellow with the ACLU’s Speech,
Privacy, and Technology Project. “We now know of 14 people across
the country who have been wrongfully arrested because of police
reliance on dangerous face recognition technology, with no telling how
many more have faced the same injustice. These Maryland police
departments owe it to Ms. Williams to make amends and to take
serious steps to make sure this doesn’t happen to anyone else. And
police across the country are on notice: face recognition technology is
hurting people, and these abuses must end.” In 2024, the ACLU
reached a landmark settlement agreement with the City of Detroit
following the wrongful arrest of Robert Williams due to police reliance
on face recognition technology. The technology frequently gets it
wrong, and testing has repeatedly shown that facial recognition
systems exhibit higher rates of false matches when used on people of
color, women, older people, and young people. To date, police in
Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Louisiana, Nevada, New Jersey, North
Dakota, Florida, and Arizona are known to have precipitated wrongful
arrests due to this technology. Ms. Williams is the second known case
of such a wrongful arrest in Maryland. “The investigative failures that
led to Ms. Williams’ improper arrest are a predictable result of the
State’s unwillingness to specify what further investigation should be
required following a facial recognition match,” said David Rocah,
senior staff attorney at the ACLU of Maryland. “We told the General
Assembly additional guidance was necessary when they passed
legislation governing this technology in 2024, and we told the
Maryland State Police this was necessary when they were writing
model policies for police departments to use.” On behalf of Ms.
Williams, the ACLU is demanding that police departments in
Montgomery County, Prince George’s County, and Anne Arundel
County investigate the failures that led to her wrongful arrest and
imprisonment and publicly apologize for this devastating error. Ms.
Williams is also seeking policy changes to help prevent this from
happening again. Reforms must include prohibiting police from relying
on facial recognition technology searches conducted by outside
entities, as well as banning police from making arrests based only on
face recognition results followed by human identifications, which are
tainted when face recognition technology makes a false match to an
innocent person who looks similar to the suspect.
Court Case: Kimberlee Williams Wrongful Arrest
Affiliate: Maryland

--- page 6 ---
© 2026 American Civil Liberties Union