--- page 1 ---
NEWS & COMMENTARY
I’m Hearing About More Pushback
Against Flock, Fueled by Concern Over
Anti-Immigrant Uses
Policymakers are beginning to recognize that the boundaries
between local surveillance and the Trump Administration are
hard to maintain
Jay Stanley, Senior Policy Analyst, ACLU Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project
August 21, 2025
Subscribe to the Free Future Newsletter
Free Future home
The Trump Administration’s targeting of immigrants, combined with growing
awareness that ICE is making use of local automated license plate reader (ALPR)
systems in the Trump Administration’s mass deportation efforts, appears to be adding
to growing opposition to such driver-surveillance programs around the country.
As I discussed in my Monday overview of the company, the most prominent seller of
ALPR cameras, Flock, allows police departments to make the data from their plate
readers available to other departments across the country in what amounts to a giant
nationwide warrantless surveillance infrastructure. In May, we learned that national
searches are being carried out by local officers on behalf of ICE for immigration
purposes.
This data sharing shouldn’t have been surprising; ICE has long shown an interest in
using this technology to locate people. In 2019, the ACLU of Northern California
explained how ICE was using a system run by Flock competitor Motorola to target
immigrants — in part by making requests to friendly local officers who had access to
the company’s giant location database.
Higher stakes
Still, this newest revelation seems to be reverberating across the country, fueling
debates over the technology. That’s likely due in part to greater awareness of the
general privacy problems with the technology. But it’s definitely also because the stakes
are higher given the Trump Administration’s abusive and illegal (and unpopular) anti-

--- page 2 ---
immigrant program, which has targeted not only undocumented immigrants but also
green card holders, others with various forms of legal status, and naturalized citizens.
Adding to the angst over LPR programs has been the revelation that a police officer in
Texas used Flock’s system to search nationwide for a woman who’d had a self-
administered abortion — illegal in the state. LPR data can be abused not just by ICE,
and not just for immigration purposes, but for other purposes too. The Trump
Administration has been going after all manner of perceived enemies, and there are
many scenarios in which location data could be used to compromise someone.
I warned about ICE usage of Flock in a 2022 white paper, where I quoted Flock CEO
Garret Langley’s response when asked by Vice News whether Flock could be used for
immigration purposes: “Yes, if it was legal in a state, we would not be in a position to
stop them,” adding, “We give our customers the tools to decide and let them go from
there.” Of course, if your town’s data is being shared across the nation, you don’t
actually have the tools to decide —anyone with access to that data could share it with
ICE. Or anti-abortion state officials. Or others.
Policymakers need to recognize that the boundaries between local surveillance and the
Trump Administration (as well as malevolent administrations in other states) are
porous and hard to maintain — that if you collect local data on your residents’ comings
and goings, it will be hard to keep that from being used in unintended ways. And
recognition of this does seem to be growing. Examples in recent months include:
In Gig Harbor, Washington, the police chief found himself being grilled by city
council members over ICE data sharing. “You sent some information I think about
the city of Puyallup and they said that I believe they belong to 593 networks,” asked
one. “So … if we share data with Puyallup what's to keep Puyallup from putting that
data all over 593 networks?”
In Syracuse, New York, councilors demanded to know how their local LPR data
ended up being searched 4.4 million times by police around the country without a
warrant and shared with ICE despite promises to the contrary.
The Evanston police department revoked out-of-state access to its ALPR database
after revelations that the city’s data had been subject to at least seven ICE searches,
despite a state law that bans data sharing with ICE.
Austin officials (shown in photo above questioning police officials) decided not to
renew the city’s contract with Flock. “Austin should not be participating in Trump’s
mass surveillance programs,” declared Council Member Mike Siegel.
In Denver the city council rejected a Flock contract proposal unanimously. “We
acknowledge that today’s environment is much different than when the pilot began
in early 2024,” said the mayor.
In Richmond, the police agreed to share LPR data with the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (AFT). In June they found out that ATF had been
making immigration-related searches without notifying the city. Richmond then cut
off the data sharing.
Even in places that ultimately approve of Flock contracts, I’m hearing more
questioning and opposition by elected officials and community members. And we’re

--- page 3 ---
starting to see interest among state legislators in putting new limits on ALPR
surveillance. A lawsuit in Virginia is rightly claiming that LPR readers of a certain
density violate the Fourth Amendment by routinely tracking people not suspected of
wrongdoing.
I’m not the only one to notice this trend — after I initially drafted this piece, the
surveillance research publication IPVM published a similar report, “Flock Facing
Rising Opposition,” detailing local opposition across the country.
Behind much of this activity stand local activists working against this program — for
example, a coalition pushing back hard on LPR in San Diego, and a man named Will
Freeman, who runs a site called “DeFlock” that seeks to map out the exact locations of
LPR devices across the country. Flock tried to scare Freeman by sending him a letter
threatening legal action, but fortunately he obtained representation by our friends at
the Electronic Frontier Foundation, who decisively shut down the company’s unethical
intimidation attempt.
Increasing awareness of how data collected locally can be used by ICE and the Trump
Administration should also grow to cover private customers of companies like Flock.
That includes not just customers like homeowner associations but also the managers
— and customers — of companies like Home Depot and Lowes, which records show
are feeding data from hundreds of cameras they maintain to law enforcement through
Flock.
The spreading opposition to mass driver surveillance is great, but we need to see a lot
more of it. Let’s hope that state legislatures and local governments around the nation
not only move in the same direction as these towns and officials, but go on to enact
strong, meaningful protections of our privacy against this AI surveillance machinery.
Selected ACLU coverage of license plate scanners:
Flock’s Aggressive Expansions Go Far Beyond Simple Driver Surveillance (August
2025)
Surveillance Company Flock Now Using AI to Report Us to Police if it Thinks Our
Movement Patterns Are “Suspicious” (July 2025)
Communities Should Reject Surveillance Products Whose Makers Won't Allow Them to
be Independently Evaluated (March 2024)
Californians Fought Hard for Driver Privacy Protections. Why Are the Police Refusing
to Follow Them? (February 2024)
How to Pump the Brakes on Your Police Department’s Use of Flock’s Mass Surveillance
License Plate Readers (February 2023)

--- page 4 ---
White paper: Fast-Growing Company Flock is Building a New AI-Driven Mass-
Surveillance System (March 2022)
Report: You Are Being Tracked (July 2013)
Privacy & Technology
Privacy and Surveillance
Automatic License Plate Readers
Immigrants' Rights
Location Tracking
National Security
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
New Orleans Police Continuing to Use Live Face
Recognition Despite City Law
City’s police cross a line, breach norms, and threaten to normalize a
nightmarish level of surveillance in American life.
By: Jay Stanley
Virginia
Apr 2026
Learn More About the Issues on This
Page
Related Content
Privacy & Technology

--- page 5 ---
Schmidt v. Norfolk
Whether Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) systems violate
individuals’ expectations of privacy under the Fourth Amendment.
Status: Ongoing
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Municipalities: Beware of Changes in Flock’s Legal Terms
if You’re Using or Considering License Plate Readers
A flurry of Flock contract changes disempower customers
By: Jay Stanley
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Privacy & Technology
Privacy & Technology

--- page 6 ---
More than a Dozen Wrongful Arrests Due to Police
Reliance on Facial Recognition Technology
One ACLU client spent six months in jail, because police relied on
facial recognition technology to incorrectly identify her as a suspect.
She’s the fourteenth person known to be wrongfully arrested due to
the technology’s failures.
By: Lauren Yu, Nathan Freed Wessler
© 2026 American Civil Liberties Union
Privacy & Technology