--- page 1 ---
NEWS & COMMENTARY
Flock Can Share Driver-Surveillance Data
Even When Police Departments Opt Out,
And Other Flock Developments
The company’s default agreement with police departments
grants the company license to share people’s license plate data
Jay Stanley, Senior Policy Analyst, ACLU Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project
October 24, 2025
Subscribe to the Free Future Newsletter
Free Future home
There’s been more news recently about the driver-surveillance company Flock. The
company has recently been feeling the heat after the revelation that data from its
national license plate scanner network was (and likely still is being) shared with Trump
Administration agencies including ICE. Recently my colleagues at the ACLU of
Massachusetts carried out a broad statewide open-records project, and among their
findings is that Flock’s default agreement with police departments gives the company
the right to share data with federal and local agencies for “investigative purposes” even
if a local department chooses to restrict data to its own officers.
Every community in the nation that is home to Flock cameras should look at the user
agreement between their police department (or other Flock customers) and the
company, to see whether it contains a clause stating that the customer “hereby grants
Flock” a “worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free free right and license” to “disclose the
Agency Data… for investigative purposes.” This is the language that will govern in a
community unless a department demands changes to the standard user agreement that
Flock offers. That is something we absolutely urge any agencies doing business with
Flock to do — and, the ACLU of Massachusetts found, is exactly what the Boston
police department did.
Other takeaways from the Massachusetts ACLU’s open-records requests to over 80
police departments across the state:

--- page 2 ---
Sharing of video. A Flock training video that ACLU-MA obtained shows how police
departments can not only share their data on the movements of drivers who live in
their communities, but also live video as well. When choosing agencies to share
data with, an agency can check off network permissions including a department’s
Video Management System (VMS), which stores video data. Keep in mind that
“video” in this context means not just flat files but AI-enhanced intelligence; as
Flock emphasizes in an ominous marketing message, its cameras provide “More
Than Recorded Video.” (I’ve recently discussed AI-enhanced cameras here and
here.)
Wide sharing. As in many other states, police in Massachusetts have been sharing
data about the movements of state residents with Flock’s network, allowing 7,000
agencies and organizations across the United States to access that data. That
despite a state “Shield Law” that bars police from providing information or
assistance to out-of-state police in relation to abortion or gender-affirming care.
Among Flock’s law enforcement customers nationwide, fully 75% have enrolled in
the “National Lookup Tool,” the company told Oregon Senator Ron Wyden, who has
been conducting oversight inquiries into the company.
Some other Flock-related developments:
Virginia documents reveal yet more sharing of driver-surveillance data with ICE
Also on the data-sharing front, reporters in Virginia uncovered another police
department that has been giving federal immigration authorities access to Flock
driver-surveillance data. Despite assurances to the contrary from a number of police
departments, thousands of outside law enforcement agencies searched Virginians’
driving histories over 7 million times in a 12-month period, including 3,000
immigration-related searches, reporters at the Virginia Center for Investigative
Journalism at WHRO-TV found. And one Virginia agency, the Warren County Sheriff’s
Office, performed more immigration searches than any other in the state — and
confirmed that it did so because federal immigration agents asked them to. “We have
an intel analyst that works in our criminal investigations division, and she works
closely with all federal partners,” a department spokesperson confirmed. He said the
sharing has since been ended. We don’t know how many such “intelligence” analysts
are continuing to cooperate with the Trump Administration across the country — but,
there are enough such analysts that they have their own association and conference.
Texas police lied through their teeth on abortion search
In May, 404Media reported that a police department in Texas (where abortion is
banned in most circumstances) did a warrantless nationwide Flock search through
data on millions of people, logging as the reason “had an abortion, search for female.”
Alongside reporting about the sharing of driver-surveillance data with ICE, this story
generated enormous concern and contributed to skepticism about Flock in many
communities. The sheriff of the agency that performed the search told 404Media that
the woman’s family “was worried that she was going to bleed to death, and we were
trying to find her to get her to a hospital,” and that “it was about her safety.”
Our allies at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, however, used open-records laws to
obtain documents about the search and found that the department had initiated a

--- page 3 ---
month-long “death investigation,” had consulted prosecutors about the possibility of
charging the woman, and sent detectives to interview the woman and review her text
messages. There was also zero mention or record of police or family concern over her
health or safety.
Flock had issued a wounded statement taking the Texas police officers at their word
and decrying the way “misinformation” about the abortion search was being used to
unfairly criticize the company. It makes sense that Flock didn’t question the honesty of
the Texas police here, because trust that law enforcement won’t engage in abuse is an
inherent premise of their entire business.
Flock teams with Amazon’s Ring Cameras in sharing of home video with police
Flock and Ring Cameras (owned by Amazon) announced a partnership to facilitate the
sharing of Ring customers’ video with law enforcement. It’s not great to see one of
America’s biggest companies teaming up with a mass-surveillance company at this
authoritarian moment in our history. As Ars Technica aptly summarized it, the
announcement shows Amazon “increasingly positioning its consumer cameras as a law
enforcement tool” after previously moving away from that. In addition to reflecting the
times, Amazon’s deal also highlights the efforts of Flock and its competitor Axon
(which already had a deal with Ring) to become police departments’ centralized
“operating system.” Note also that Ring cameras have face recognition enabled.
We recommend that anyone who feels they really want to install a doorbell camera
protect their privacy by storing their video locally or using end-to-end encryption (both
offered by Ring, though inexplicably Ring forces customers to pay extra not to use their
cloud service). Both of those options also forestall participation in the police-sharing
program.
Flock pushing police “Drones as First Responder” programs into private sector
Police “drones as first responder” (DFR) programs are being launched by an increasing
number of police departments nationwide. Under these programs, if you dial 911 the
police send a drone to your house, and to other emergency call locations. And we’ve
been concerned about these programs’ implications and called for strict limits on
them. Now Flock has begun to offer DFR programs to private businesses. This use of
drones, which the company calls “Drones as Automated Security” (DAS), raises the
prospect of private corporate security drones flying around communities, threatening
to become another step in the corporatization of American policing.
I don’t see a problem with the owner of a ranch or large industrial complex flying
drones around their property, except for potentially issues around filming neighboring
properties, as I recently discussed with regard to the related issue of private drone
patrols. But the company is also marketing the service to businesses such as big box
stores, where they are envisioned as helping store security chase shoplifters beyond the
property limits into towns. Flock says the system can be tied to the company’s other
sensors such as license plate readers, which we know some big box stores are already
rudely using on their unsuspecting customers. Store security workers don’t generally
engage in car chases with suspects, but here it sounds like they might be doing the

--- page 4 ---
equivalent with drones, bleeding private security into what should be official police
functions.
Privacy & Technology
Privacy and Surveillance
National Security
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
New Orleans Police Continuing to Use Live Face
Recognition Despite City Law
City’s police cross a line, breach norms, and threaten to normalize a
nightmarish level of surveillance in American life.
By: Jay Stanley
Virginia
Apr 2026
Learn More About the Issues on This
Page
Related Content
Privacy & Technology

--- page 5 ---
Schmidt v. Norfolk
Whether Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) systems violate
individuals’ expectations of privacy under the Fourth Amendment.
Status: Ongoing
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Municipalities: Beware of Changes in Flock’s Legal Terms
if You’re Using or Considering License Plate Readers
A flurry of Flock contract changes disempower customers
By: Jay Stanley
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Privacy & Technology
Privacy & Technology

--- page 6 ---
More than a Dozen Wrongful Arrests Due to Police
Reliance on Facial Recognition Technology
One ACLU client spent six months in jail, because police relied on
facial recognition technology to incorrectly identify her as a suspect.
She’s the fourteenth person known to be wrongfully arrested due to
the technology’s failures.
By: Lauren Yu, Nathan Freed Wessler
© 2026 American Civil Liberties Union
Privacy & Technology