--- page 1 ---
NEWS & COMMENTARY
How to Pump the Brakes on Your Police
Department’s Use of Flock’s Mass
Surveillance License Plate Readers
Even if you can’t stop Flock’s use entirely, you can still help
protect civil liberties in your community.
Chad Marlow, Senior Policy Counsel, ACLU
Jay Stanley, Senior Policy Analyst, ACLU Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project
February 13, 2023
From Pasadena, California to Lexington, Kentucky to Menasha, Wisconsin, to Newark,
New Jersey, the surveillance company Flock Safety is blanketing American cities with
dangerously powerful and unregulated automatic license plate recognition (ALPR)
cameras. While license plate readers have been around for some time, Flock is the first
to create a nationwide mass-surveillance system out of its customers’ cameras.
Working with police departments, neighborhood watches, and other private customers,
Flock not only allows private camera owners to create their own “hot lists” that will
generate alarms when listed plates are spotted, but also runs all plates against state
police watchlists and the FBI’s primary criminal database, the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC). Flock’s goal is to expand to “every city in the United
States,” and its cameras are already in use in over 2,000 cities in at least 42 states.
Unlike a targeted ALPR camera system that is designed to take pictures of license
plates, check the plates against local hot lists, and then flush the data if there’s no hit,
Flock is building a giant camera network that records people’s comings and goings
across the nation, and then makes that data available for search by any of its law
enforcement customers. Such a system provides even small-town sheriffs access to a
sweeping and powerful mass-surveillance tool, and allows big actors like federal
agencies and large urban police departments to access the comings and goings of
vehicles in even the smallest of towns. And every new customer that buys and installs
the company’s cameras extends Flock’s network, contributing to the creation of a
centralized mass surveillance system of Orwellian scope. Motorola Solutions, a
competitor to Flock, is pursuing a similar business model.
If the police or government leaders are pushing for Flock or another centralized mass-
surveillance ALPR system in your community, we urge you to oppose it, full stop. You

--- page 2 ---
can do this by urging your local councilperson or other elected representatives to adopt
our recommendations into law, attending public meetings and hearings, and raising
the profile of the issue by writing letters to the editor and op-eds. You can also use
social media to highlight the issues — be sure to tag your elected officials — including
by sharing this blog post. If you’re an elected official or community leader, you may
also be able to engage directly with your police department — we have found that some
departments are willing to do so.
In a few places, residents concerned about privacy and over-policing have successfully
blocked their police departments’ acquisition of Flock or other ALPR systems. But, in
many other cities, those efforts have been thwarted. In communities where such
systems can’t be stopped entirely, we can still help protect our and our neighbors’ civil
liberties by working with our local police department and elected officials to ensure
that local ALPR cameras do not feed into a mass surveillance system that lets
potentially every law enforcement department in the world spy on the residents and
visitors of any city in America.
We don’t find every use of ALPRs objectionable. For example, we do not generally
object to using them to check license plates against lists of stolen cars, for AMBER
Alerts, or for toll collection, provided they are deployed and used fairly and subject to
proper checks and balances, such as ensuring devices are not disproportionately
deployed in low-income communities and communities of color, and that the “hot
lists” they are run against are legitimate and up to date. But there’s no reason the
technology should be used to create comprehensive records of everybody’s comings
and goings — and that is precisely what ALPR databases like Flock’s are doing. In our
country, the government should not be tracking us unless it has individualized
suspicion that we’re engaged in wrongdoing. We more fully lay out our concerns with
this technology in a March 2022 white paper on Flock, and in a 2013 report on law
enforcement use.

--- page 3 ---
Flock's adoption of new technology may expand current government surveillance reach and erode
Americans’ privacy.
Source: American Civil Liberties Union
Many police departments neither understand nor endorse Flock’s nationwide, mass
surveillance-driven approach to ALPR use, but are adopting the company’s cameras
simply because other police departments in their region are doing so. As such, they
may be amenable to compromise. That might even include using another vendor that
does not tie its cameras into a mass-surveillance system. In other cases, you may be
able to get your police department or local legislators to add addendums to Flock’s
standard contract that limit its ALPR system’s mass surveillance capabilities and
highly permissive data sharing.
In those situations, the three most important areas for regulation and negotiation are
how long the data is retained, who the data is shared with, and how that data is used by
law enforcement. We obtained samples of Flock’s Government Agency Customer
Agreements with the Greensboro, North Carolina Police Department and other Flock
contracts with local police. Below is suggested contract language across these three
areas, based on these agreements, that you can use in your local advocacy efforts.
Data Retention
Whether ALPRs are being used for Amber Alerts, toll collection, or to identify stolen
vehicles, a license plate can be run against a watchlist in seconds. The police do not
need records of every person’s coming and goings, including trips to doctor’s offices,
religious institutions, and political gatherings.
New Hampshire state law, which requires law enforcement to delete non-hit license
plate capture data within three minutes, is a good model. But you should get the
shortest retention period you can in your community. From worst to best, here are
three approaches that can be taken to the retention of ALPR data:
Data Sharing/Use by Others
One of the most important privacy-protective steps you can take is to restrict your
community’s ALPR system to local use, meaning local ALPR scans are only checked
against locally developed watch lists. Allowing local ALPR data to be used by outside
law enforcement creates significant risks. Your local ALPR data could be used to
enforce anti-abortion or anti-immigrant laws from other jurisdictions, or even to assist
foreign, authoritarian regimes in hunting down political opponents and refugees living
in America (Flock’s default provisions give the company a “worldwide” license to use
its customers’ APLR data).
Fast-Growing Company Flock is Building a New AI-Driven Mass-Surveillance
System

--- page 4 ---
These risks are simply not worth taking, especially since there are many other
companies that sell locally focused systems. From worst to best, here are three data
sharing and use approaches:
Database Use
As much as we might hope that all police watchlists were 100 percent reliable, we know
they are not. In fact, the largest and most commonly used national watch list — the
National Crime Information Center (NCIC) database — does not even comply with the
1974 United States Privacy Act’s basic accuracy, reliability, and completeness
requirements. That means allowing your ALPR data to be run against such databases
will subject anyone living in or visiting your town to unjustified arrest and detention,
which is an especially dangerous proposition for members of vulnerable, already
overpoliced communities. Again, from worst to best, here are three database use
approaches:
In the end, neither local police departments, nor government officials, nor residents
should blindly accept Flock’s model simply because it advances Flock’s bottom line, or
because other jurisdictions have unwisely chosen to do so. We continue to believe that
using Flock cameras should be opposed outright. But where that battle can’t be won,
then any system should at least be confined to the community itself and not made part
of a national and international mass-surveillance system.
Privacy & Technology
Video Surveillance
Privacy and Surveillance
Surveillance Technologies
National Security
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Learn More About the Issues on This
Page
Related Content

--- page 5 ---
New Orleans Police Continuing to Use Live Face
Recognition Despite City Law
City’s police cross a line, breach norms, and threaten to normalize a
nightmarish level of surveillance in American life.
By: Jay Stanley
Virginia
Apr 2026
Schmidt v. Norfolk
Whether Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) systems violate
individuals’ expectations of privacy under the Fourth Amendment.
Status: Ongoing
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Privacy & Technology
Privacy & Technology

--- page 6 ---
Municipalities: Beware of Changes in Flock’s Legal Terms
if You’re Using or Considering License Plate Readers
A flurry of Flock contract changes disempower customers
By: Jay Stanley
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
More than a Dozen Wrongful Arrests Due to Police
Reliance on Facial Recognition Technology
One ACLU client spent six months in jail, because police relied on
facial recognition technology to incorrectly identify her as a suspect.
She’s the fourteenth person known to be wrongfully arrested due to
the technology’s failures.
By: Lauren Yu, Nathan Freed Wessler
© 2026 American Civil Liberties Union
Privacy & Technology
Privacy & Technology

--- page 7 ---
