--- page 1 ---
NEWS & COMMENTARY
License Plate Readings Shouldn’t Be
Public Data
Such readings shouldn’t generally be retained at all, but if they
are at least privacy needs to be protected
Jay Stanley, Senior Policy Analyst, ACLU Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project
Chad Marlow, Senior Policy Counsel, ACLU
February 25, 2026
Subscribe to the Free Future Newsletter
Free Future home
We don’t think that law enforcement should be using license plate readers to retain
information on where people are going and when, unless their vehicle is on a legitimate
“hit list” of wanted vehicles. Nonetheless, police in many communities around the
nation are using this surveillance technology as a mass surveillance system storing
information about everybody’s movements. That has raised an important issue: are
these records about who is driving where, and at what time, public records that
journalists and other members of the public ought to be able to obtain through an
open-records request?
The issue was brought into stark relief recently by an article published in 404Media
about a web site that has published a searchable online tool called
HaveIBeenFlocked.com. The site has obtained data from a small number of police
departments that responded to open-records requests by releasing plate-read data
without redacting the actual license plate numbers, and lets anyone enter their own tag
number and find out if records of their comings and goings are in the database. The
site’s owner says it’s intended to “show how pervasive” ALPR monitoring is and “just
how many searches are getting done.”
The release of this kind of data is a significant privacy problem. To be clear, web sites
have every right to publish data that has been released by government agencies or that
they have otherwise legitimately obtained; the fault here is the police departments that
collected this data on innocent drivers not suspected of any wrongdoing and then
released it unredacted. But this kind of data could be used by all manner of parties to
find out things about the lives of those they’re interested in — everyone from abusive

--- page 2 ---
romantic partners and stalkers, to political or business rivals, to everyday busy-bodies
and who-knows-who-else.
At the same time, open-records laws (the state and local counterparts of the federal
Freedom of Information Act, or FOIA) are a vital tool for transparency, accountability,
and democracy. The public in a democracy can’t make value decisions without
knowing what’s going on inside government agencies, which is especially important in
the face of powerful and novel technologies that give those agencies powers they’ve
never before had. Still, that has to be accomplished without making mass-surveillance
worse by opening up surveillance victims’ lives to the world.
Questions over the status of plate reads as a public record has led to various rounds of
litigation in recent years, as the need for transparency, law enforcement reluctance to
provide it, and the need for privacy are hashed out.
So what is the right balance? Our recommendation, as laid out in our ALPR model state
bill, is that state lawmakers enact protections providing that:
1. An ALPR system’s audit, use, and access logs and data are all subject to production
under open-records laws, but only after specific license plate numbers, as well as
other identifying features about a vehicle, such as Flock’s photographic data and
metadata of a vehicle’s distinguishing characteristics, are redacted.
2. Audit and use logs showing such information as where scans are taking place (for
example, whether they are concentrated mainly in predominantly Black or low-
income neighborhoods), how many scans have been conducted, and (despite their
limitations) any logs by officers of the purposes of their searches (which would be
subject to existing open-records exemptions for active investigations) should be
considered public records.
3. People should be able to request their own data — i.e. data on the license plate
numbers of vehicles that are registered to them. We also call for certain protections
to minimize the chances of someone using police surveillance to further domestic
violence against a partner, such as requiring that where a vehicle is registered to (or
regularly driven by) multiple people, all must all consent to the release of that data.
A similar balance of conflicting interests (transparency vs. privacy) has always
complicated the issue of body cameras, and we have recommended a carefully
balanced set of policies for those communities that decide they want their law
enforcement officers to wear them, including — despite the ACLU’s stalwart support
for transparency in policing and government — exemptions from open-records laws
for much of the video collected by body cams. And although it’s a bad idea, where
license plate readers are nonetheless used to store historical data about people’s
comings and goings, the same should hold.
Update (4/29/26):
Language in the first bullet above was changed to clarify the narrowness of the
excemption we call for in our model bill.

--- page 3 ---
Privacy & Technology
Automatic License Plate Readers
Location Tracking
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
New Orleans Police Continuing to Use Live Face
Recognition Despite City Law
City’s police cross a line, breach norms, and threaten to normalize a
nightmarish level of surveillance in American life.
By: Jay Stanley
Virginia
Apr 2026
Learn More About the Issues on This
Page
Related Content
Privacy & Technology

--- page 4 ---
Schmidt v. Norfolk
Whether Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) systems violate
individuals’ expectations of privacy under the Fourth Amendment.
Status: Ongoing
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Municipalities: Beware of Changes in Flock’s Legal Terms
if You’re Using or Considering License Plate Readers
A flurry of Flock contract changes disempower customers
By: Jay Stanley
News & Commentary
Apr 2026
Privacy & Technology
Privacy & Technology

--- page 5 ---
More than a Dozen Wrongful Arrests Due to Police
Reliance on Facial Recognition Technology
One ACLU client spent six months in jail, because police relied on
facial recognition technology to incorrectly identify her as a suspect.
She’s the fourteenth person known to be wrongfully arrested due to
the technology’s failures.
By: Lauren Yu, Nathan Freed Wessler
© 2026 American Civil Liberties Union
Privacy & Technology