AI Found a Root Bug in Linux That Everyone Missed for 15 Years | WIRED Manage your consent preferences If you are a resident of Colorado, Connecticut, Virginia, Utah, Oregon, Texas, Montana, Delaware, Iowa, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and New Jersey, Tennessee, Minnesota, Maryland, Indiana, Kentucky, or Rhode Island you have the right to opt-out of Targeted Advertising, including our “sale” and/or “sharing” of your Personal Information (“Opt-Out”). We and our third-party business partners use Personal Information in accordance with our Privacy Policy to serve advertising believed to be of interest to you (“Targeted Advertising”). If you are a California resident, you also have the right to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal information in particular circumstances. Please note that you may need to Opt-Out on each website, mobile app, browser, and device you use, and if you clear your browser cookies, you may need to repeat this process. However, if you have created an account to log in across several of our websites and/or mobile apps, we will make reasonable efforts to apply your Opt-Out request to each of those websites and apps. ◦ To Opt-Out of Targeted Advertising on this site: Move the “Allow Targeted Advertising" toggle below to the left and press “Confirm My Choices” ◦ To Opt-Out of other “sales”, including for list rentals, data co-ops, and to limit the use and disclosure of your Sensitive Personal Information: Please provide information on the privacy center and press “submit.” You can also submit this request by calling 1-877-241-4999. This information will not be used or disclosed for any purpose other than for processing this request. Essential On These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Performance On These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Audience Measurement On We use audience measurement cookies in order to carry out aggregated traffic measurement and generate performance statistics essential for the proper functioning of the site and the provision of its content (for example to measure performance, to detect navigation problems, to optimization technical performance or ergonomics, to estimate server power needed and to analyse content performance). The use of these cookies is strictly limited to measuring the site's audience. These cookies do not allow the tracking of navigation on other websites and the data collected is not combined or shared with third parties. You can refuse the use of this cookie by switching off the slider to the right. Functional On This website uses functional cookies and services to remember your preferences and choices, such as language preferences, font sizes, region selections, and customized layouts. They enable this website to offer enhanced and personalized functionalities. Social Media Off These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools. Allow Sale/Targeted Advertising? On We may transfer or share your personal information to third parties for the purposes of targeted advertising. You can learn more about what information is used for this purpose in our privacy notice. Confirm My Choices Reject All Accept All Privacy Policy Consent powered by Ethyca Skip to main content SECURITY POLITICS THE BIG STORY BUSINESS SCIENCE CULTURE REVIEWS Newsletters Security Politics The Big Story Business Science Culture Reviews More The Big Interview Magazine Events WIRED Insider WIRED Consulting Newsletters Podcasts Video Livestreams Merch Search Sign In Sign In Dell Cameron Lily Hay Newman Security Jul 11, 2026 6:30 AM Security News This Week: AI Found a Root Bug in Linux That Everyone Missed for 15 Years Plus: The Pentagon is training amateurs to become part of its hacker army, a Flock license plate reader error led to cops surrounding a car reviewer, and more. Photo-Illustration: Jobanny Cabrera; Getty Images Save this story Save this story Amid years of warnings that China’s notorious Volt Typhoon hackers may be pre-positioning within United States critical infrastructure, a closed-door war game for insurers played out an array of worst-case scenarios—revealing a menacing, disruptive threat. ICE’s internal oversight group, the Office of Professional Responsibility, has begun investigating online critics of the agency , opening more than 100 cases looking at what ICE officials call “incidents of doxing and threats” against agency employees. And in the European Union, tech companies will be able to scan citizens’ personal texts, emails, and social media messages again because of renewed powers in the “Chat Control” bill aimed at curbing online child abuse material. The European Parliament voted to extend the legislation despite a majority of lawmakers voting against the proposal. WIRED revealed more about the Madison Square Garden surveillance landscape this week with revelations that MSG kept a database categorizing hundreds of celebrities , prominent Knicks superfans, and even some Taylor Swift wedding guests using labels that included “LGBTQIA,” “DO NOT HOST,” and low to high “risk.” And new research this week shows that a wave of government website hijacks in which scammers promise “leaked” OnlyFans content are being stymied by thousands of copyright complaints from adult content creators, helping keep people safe by getting the malicious links taken down. And there’s more. Each week, we round up the security and privacy news we didn’t cover in depth ourselves. Click the headlines to read the full stories. And stay safe out there. AI Found a Root Bug in Linux That Everyone Missed for 15 Years Nebula Security has published exploit code for GhostLock (CVE-2026-43499), a use-after-free bug that sat in the Linux kernel for 15 years and lets any logged-in user take root on an unpatched machine, according to SecurityWeek and The Hacker News . The flaw shipped by default in essentially every mainstream distribution since 2011 and needs no special permissions or network access. Nebula’s exploit escapes containers and was 97 percent reliable in testing. It earned a $92,337 payout through Google’s kernelCTF program. It was fixed in April, but patch availability is uneven; Ubuntu, as of early July, still listed 24.04, 22.04, and 20.04 LTS as vulnerable or in progress, so defenders should confirm the fixed package rather than assume one is waiting. Notably, Nebula found the bug with VEGA, its AI-driven bug-hunting tool, part of a 2026 run of Linux privilege-escalation flaws surfaced by automated tools combing old kernel code few had reread in years. Flock Cameras Sent 4 Cops After a Reporter Writing in The Drive , reporter Joel Feder describes being boxed in by four Plymouth, Minnesota, police cars in a Kohl's parking lot in late June—officers shouting, hands on their guns—because Flock's license plate cameras had flagged the $155,000 Range Rover he was testing, loaned from a New Jersey dealership, as stolen. Feder writes that police had been tracking the SUV around town for days … because of a typo. The cause traced back to a data-entry error 2,000 miles away: a Jaguar Land Rover fleet plate reading 34 03 DTM had been reported to Los Angeles police as lost, but it was entered into the system as just “34 DTM”—dropping the smaller middle digits that New Jersey uses on manufacturer plates. Flock's cameras read the large characters, ignored the nonstandard structure, and started alerting police to any matching car. Feder reports that four other Land Rovers sharing the same license plate format were being tracked around Minnesota that same week; he was just the first pulled over. The plate that kicked off all this police activity turned out not to have been stolen at all, just misplaced during a photo shoot. Ironically, the incident came barely two weeks after The Drive published a viral report on exactly this kind of Flock overreach. ICE’s Cyber Contractor Gets Breached Consulting giant Accenture has confirmed a security breach after a threat actor going by “888” claimed to have lifted 35 GB of data—source code, RSA and SSH keys, Azure access tokens, and configuration files—and put it up for sale on a cybercrime forum, according to BleepingComputer . Accenture called it an “isolated matter,” said it had remediated the source, and reported no impact to operations but declined at the time to comment on what was actually taken or how the attackers got in. To back the claim, 888 posted a screenshot appearing to show a cloned Azure DevOps repository on a redacted Accenture.com host; BleepingComputer couldn't verify the full scope. It's not the actor's first swing at the company—888 tried to sell Accenture employee data after a third-party breach in 2024, and Accenture separately got hit by LockBit ransomware in 2021. The timing of the breach is particularly awkward: Accenture's federal arm has held ICE’s Cyber Defense and Intelligence Support Services contract —24/7 threat monitoring, intrusion detection, and incident response across the agency's networks—since September 2021, a roughly $56.5 million task order that expires at the end of August and is currently being recompeted. The Pentagon Wants to Train an Army of Amateur Hackers—but Not for a Living Wage The Pentagon opened applications this week for Cyber RAP, a paid apprenticeship that recruits people with no cyber degree or experience—just the aptitude to learn—into 12-month, full-time gigs learning to guard the department's networks, according to DefenseScoop . The US military’s CIO, Kirsten Davies, pitched it as ditching “academic gatekeeping” for “raw aptitude, patriotic drive, and hands-on capability.” But the pay is an abysmal $22,584 a year, and those who wash out will owe the government back for the training. That's the deal for building talent in-house. The other option on the table is renting it. A provision in the Senate Armed Services Committee's FY2027 defense bill would let defense secretary Pete Hegseth spin up a pilot to run cyber operations through “contractor-owned, contractor-operated means”—a government-blessed hacker-for-hire crew, GovInfoSecurity reports . Most Popular Culture The Odyssey Backlash Failed Tremendously By John Semley Business Use AWS? Thanks to a Billing Glitch, That’ll Be $3 Billion By Caroline Haskins Politics The CDC Has a Cyclospora Lab. DOGE Downsized It Last Year By Emily Mullin Business Lyft’s CEO Says, ‘We’re the Good Uber’ By Steven Levy Critics see a line being crossed. Nick Leiserson, a former Biden White House cyber official, said the hack-for-hire plan “contributes to global cyber instability” and noted the US has sanctioned Chinese contractors for doing the same thing. The idea has a colorful pedigree. Last year, US representative David Schweikert of Arizona introduced the Scam Farms Marque and Reprisal Authorization Act, which would let the president issue “letters of marque and reprisal”—the same instrument the US last handed to privateers in the War of 1812—authorizing private operators to seize the assets of foreign cybercriminals, including crypto wallets tied to scams against Americans, as The Register reported . The bill went to committee and never got a vote. Comments Back to top You Might Also Like In your inbox: Inside WIRED’s newsroom with Katie Drummond Trump mocked Zuckerberg and Bezos by showing off fawning texts Big Story: I found Jesus at a drone show Apple is making your older iPhone run faster and stay alive longer WIRED event: PepsiCo’s once-in-a-generation transformation Dell Cameron is an investigative reporter from Texas covering privacy and national security. He's the recipient of multiple Society of Professional Journalists awards and is co-recipient of an Edward R. Murrow Award for Investigative Reporting. Previously, he was a senior reporter at Gizmodo and a staff writer for the Daily ... Read More Senior Reporter, National Security Lily Hay Newman is a senior writer at WIRED focused on information security, digital privacy, and hacking. She previously worked as a technology reporter at Slate, and was the staff writer for Future Tense, a publication and partnership between Slate, the New America Foundation, and Arizona State University. Her work ... Read More Senior Writer Topics security roundup hacking cybersecurity security malware vulnerabilities Linux surveillance Police Read More LastPass Users Had Their Data Stolen—Again Plus: Former national security advisor John Bolton pleads guilty in classified-materials case, Microsoft helps take down major infostealer infrastructure, and more. Lily Hay Newman The Pentagon Is Looking Into the Dialog Data Exposure for Unmasking National Security Officials Exposed records from the private group included the personal information of a senior White House intelligence official and an active-duty special operations officer. Dell Cameron What Happens if China Hacks the US Water Supply? I Went to a Secret War Game to Find Out Burst water mains. Evacuated hospitals. In a closed-door simulation, insurers played out their response to a mass disruption by China’s Volt Typhoon hackers—and found a nightmare scenario. Andy Greenberg EU Politicians Investigated Pegasus Spyware. Then It Ended Up on One of Their Phones “It is a direct attack on the rule of law,” says one European Parliament member of the new findings from Citizen Lab. Lily Hay Newman Dialog Claims It Was Hacked. A Misconfigured Website Left Its Members Exposed The private events group, cofounded by Peter Thiel, says a “criminal” hacker is behind a breach that exposed members’ personal details. WIRED found no evidence a break-in was needed to access the files. Dell Cameron OpenAI Launches Full-Scale Effort to Patch Open-Source Bugs as It Takes on Anthropic’s Mythos Amid concerns about AI models’ cybersecurity capabilities, OpenAI revealed an improved version of GPT-5.5-Cyber and its “Patch the Planet” initiative to fix open-source software bugs. Lily Hay Newman Apple’s Hide My Email Service Fails to Hide Your Email Plus: Alleged Scattered Spider hacking member extradited, dozens of license plate reader errors, and Indian officials are concerned about WhatsApp’s username rollout. Matt Burgess Hackers Claim to Leak Stolen Madison Square Garden Data Plus: Gay bars in San Francisco using face scanners, France quits Palantir, Apple plans to change its private email, and more. Matt Burgess World Cup Scams Are Getting Harder to Spot From fake tickets to cloned websites, AI is magnifying World Cup scams. Can fans distinguish between what’s real and what’s not? Jumana Naim OnlyFans Models Are Accidentally Making Hacked Government Websites Disappear Scammers are hijacking government websites to upload ads for “leaked” OnlyFans content. Thousands of copyright complaints from adult creators are helping people avoid malicious links. Matt Burgess Top Google Security Staff Warn Search Data Could Be Hacked if EU Rules Change Europe’s pro-competition proposals could see Google Search and Android systems opened up. The company claims there are serious privacy flaws. Matt Burgess Meta Pauses Employee-Tracking Program Following Internal Data Leak The move comes after the company left potentially sensitive data from the initiative exposed internally. Paresh Dave WIRED is obsessed with what comes next. Through rigorous investigations and game-changing reporting, we tell stories that don’t just reflect the moment—they help create it. When you look back in 10, 20, even 50 years, WIRED will be the publication that led the story of the present, mapped the people, products, and ideas defining it, and explained how those forces forged the future. WIRED: For Future Reference. More From WIRED Subscribe Newsletters Livestreams Travel FAQ Contact Us WIRED Staff WIRED Education Editorial Standards Archive RSS Site Map Accessibility Help Reviews and Guides Reviews Buying Guides Streaming Guides Wearables Coupons Advertise Manage Account Jobs Press Center Condé Nast Store User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights © 2026 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices Select international site United States Italia Japón Czech Republic & Slovakia Your Privacy Choices